

THE BULLETIN
VoL 3.—No. 109.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNiil 13, 1885.
Prloo—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 1886.
England and Russia.
Once more the principle of arbitration is to
be called in to settle a dispute between two
powers of the first class. The circumstance
that the destinies of England are presided
over to-day by the same statesman who, ten
years ago, submitted the Alabama claims to
arbitration is significant of the desire of one
great English party to exhaust all methods
of conciliation before appealing to arms.
Most of us remember the bitter things said of
Mr. Gladstone by the English war-party
on the occasion of the Geneva award, and
we may be sure that things of equal bitter-
ness will be said by the same party on
whichever side the arbitrator in the Pendjeh
dispute gives his judgment. It is, then, a?
well to look things straight in the face—to
raise ourselves above all considerations of
national vanity—and put the question can-
didly : Can England at present meet in the
field any great European Power ?
* ♦ ♦
We think she cannot—and this notwith-
standing her possessing a greater population
than France, people as brave as any in the
world, wealth far in excess of that of any
other country, and a position unrivalled for
offence or defence. The cause of this weak-
ness lies on the surface. England is the only
great European Power that does not make
military servitude compulsory. The result
is that if, in these days of radical changes
in naval warfare, even a partial disaster
should overtake tho navy, all England could
not stop the march of 150,000 or 200,000
trained soldiers on London. But if this idea
of invasion be considered —as many con-
sider it—a bugbear too unreal to be dwelt
upon, there remains the consideration cl
what Great Britain, with her present ele-
mentary military system, could do abroad,
either in defending her own possessions or
destroying those of others. The British
and colonial Jingoes who are always so
anxious to embrace an opportunity for a
quarrel without much caring about the
cause, have never given due prominence to
this aspect of the question. We shall en-
deavour to enlighten them a little.
■ • •
In dealing with the subject, no account
must be taken of the successful Continental
wars waged by England in times gone by.
Those of Mablbobouh offer no analogy, nor
do those of Wellington. In both cases we
wore merely the allies of other nations, or
they were ours. But such a change has
taken place in Europe of late that in future
we must be prepared to play a “ lone ” band.
No [European State would make common
cause with us in order that we might re-
tain India. “ British interests”—so impor-
tant to us—are of no moment to them. The
day has gone by for regiments of Hessians
to be bought at so much a head or intrigues
to be set on foot against an aggressive
Prance. The whole character of Continental
armies has changed. They are no longer
the mercenaries with whom Frederick won
and held Silesia, and whom, with merciless
severity he caned into skill. They are now
the whole male population of a country-
millions of disciplined men. But the
universal in the military Empires, has left
Britain almost untouched. True, the sol-
dier of to-day is far better treated, fed, and
paid than he was 30 or even 15 years ago
But he is recruited from the same
and enlists, sometimes to get out of a sorape
and sometimes because he thinks the indo-
lent life of a barracks is the thing of all
others for whiQh he is fitted, We thus
see that, while all the energies of; Continen-
tal countries have been devoted to],the per-
fecting of their military systems, stagna-
tion has been the rule in England, or, if not
absolute stagnation, no progress common
surate with that of other European States.
* • •
The probable result will suggest itself.
The mistake the Jingoes make is that they
wish to fight, and expect success without
having subjected themselves to the prelimi-
nary training and sacrifices to make that
success pi obable. They are in the position
of a man naturally swifter than another,
but who, from his dislike to hard training, is
left hopelessly behind in the race. If Great
Britain were situated like America, with no
foreign possessions, no interest in foreign
broils, and a fixed determination to keep
out of them, the colossal armaments of
Europe might give her no concern. But
scarce’y a question can arise the world over
that docs not concern her more or less. And
it was under circumstances like these that
unreflecting men demanded war against a
power capable of putting millions of hardy
and disciplii.ed men in the field. And their
reliance was placed on what ? On their own
determination to fall into the ranks, or send
their sons to swell the country’s forces? Far
from it. For success they mainly depended
on embroiling other Powers—on the chances
of setting the world in a blaze !
• • ♦
All this is well known in Europe. To the
statesmen of to-day it is a matter of indiffer-
ence how a country came out of a struggle
three-quarters of a century ago. The
thing to which they pay any attention is
“ how is it prepared for a struggle now ? ”
There is not a Russian soldier above the
rank of corporal who dees not know that
Great Britain would have the greatest diffi-
culty in putting 100,000 men in line. The
actions of their leaders are guided by this
knowledge. And now the whole question is
narrowed down to this: Can Britain hold her
own in the European system without en-
forced service? We think not. Whether it
be a modified conscription as sketched by
the Duke of Cambridge some time ago, or
a general one as the French had to adopt in
1873, will depend entirely on circumstances.
With an immense navy and no foreign
possessions like India, which could be
reached by land, the necessity for conscrip-
tion might never arise. But at present, with
a great and unscrupulous Power approach-
ing us year by year, laying down lines of
supply so that its trained hordes can swarm
to the front in a few days, and intriguing
for our overthrow with the eenji-barbarfiu?
rulers with whom it comes in contact, it is no
wonder we hear of prominent British com*
manders looking hopelessly about, and
every now and then muttering that word so
repugnant to British ears—“ conscription,"
* ♦ *
But it may be said, “You profess to be
Democrats, to believe in the doctrines of
Henry George and the brotherhood of
man, and yet you advocate a measure
which the despotic nations only of the
world have adopted, and to which, the
British people will never become recon-
ciled.” We are far from advocating it, ex-
cept in the same way that we would urge
on a man the foolishness of keeping no fire-
arms in his house when burglars were
known to be about. Personally, we detest
everything in the shape of military servi-
tude, enforced or otherwise. We believe
that man was created for far higher pur-
poses than to be shot or bayoneted by bis
brother man with whom he had no quarrel.
But wo have seen enough of the world to
know that the worst way for a man to retain
his property is by expressing his determina-
tion not to defend it. And if a thing Is worth
doing at all, it is worth doing with your
whole strength. It is certain that if the
British navy closed every port in the Rus-
sian Empire and swept every Muscovite
vessel from the seas, the inconvenience and
loss might be great, but they would not bo
great enough to induce capitulation. The
immense extent of territory would prevent
this. It is just as certain that, unless we
materially augment the native Indian
troops, and place an ante-mutiny reliance
upon them, we must by-and-bye be forced
to pre sure in oi der to obtain soldiers. For
nobody dreams that this desire for abitra-
tion is more than a desire for a truce. No-
body who knows anyth ug of Russia will
imagine that her forces on the Afghan fron-
tier will not be vastly greater a few years
hence than they are to-day. It is not a
pleasant prospect to which to look forward.
It may make many of us, who believe that
the real strength of England lies within the
four seas, regret that Clive was such a
soldier, and Warren Hastings such a scoun-
drel —make us regret that, iu presence of the
military dangers which threaten the Euro-
pean world, English Democracy, which was
thriving so well, may be arrested in its
growth. But it is, after all, better to look
the worst boldly in the face than to live on
in a fool’s paradise, and awaken to find our-
selves the laughing-stock of nations. Any
sacrifice is belter than that.
Lord Bramwell and Grog; and “Study
and Stimulants.”
Lord Bramwkll's pamphlet on the drink ques-
tion, written for the Liberty and Property Defence
League, Is exciting great interest in England, and
the opinions it ventilates are finding their way
into the discussion of the subject in these colonies.
An article from the London Times dealing with
the pamphlet was re-printed the other day in the
Sydney Mobnikq Herald, and calls for some
remark. There is no hesitation about the method
of treatment adopted by Lord He
admits frankly that drink ruins tho health
of, and kills the wretch that takes it to ex-
cess, but declares that it is still a good thing. He
does not care about the size of the nation’s drink-
bill; be has nothing to do with the crimes origin-
ated in drink; he finds that it ministers to plea-
sure; ho believes with Sir James Paget that “ the
best and in proportion to numbers the largest
quantity of brainwork has been, and still Is being,
done by the people of those nations in which th e
use of alcoholic drinks has been and is habitual;”
he further contends that persons who have habi-
tually and temperately taken alcoholic drinks have
done the best and most brain work; and to those
who ask: Can nothing, then, be done by law to
diminish themischief caused by drink ? be answers
“No.” Lori Pramwell is a dispu-
tant, not so much because he cuts cause he
hacks, not so much because his reason is strong as
bis sympathy is weak. Hq carries into an
THE CZAR.
(From a photo, taken in London.)


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (o aly).
FOR WRINGING AND MANGUNG.
6-Inch Rollers, 34 Inches wide.
The Palace Mangle, £3 5s.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
' \
Your photo.-if you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ao-
cept what Is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Rur-
llngton Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspectan
array of portraiture.not of select-
td specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., whloS
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost anlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices —C.-D.-V., 15§.; Cabinets, 30s. per dozen,
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, 8YDNE 7 ARCADE
J. TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-straatp
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
tar Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual income exceeds One WUllon>
»-r c \jv
Llartatnlng and Gas Ex plosion’Da tnaa-*fl Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Battle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottie, only Ss.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 8d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINDS,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WIN®
FOR INVALIDS.
A JSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d, per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2?. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brairi.
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George? and Market Streets*
BYBNftT.
Thi Rates or Subscription to Thi Bullitin
arc—For one rear, 31a.; half-year, 13a. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thi Advertising Baths are 5a. per Inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as followa On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive inaertlonsf
IB per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
he made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
OOULBUBN.
THIS Theatre, one of the best In the colony, Is
ypeu for Engagement. Particulars from
v ' M. iif PULLEN, H«li 8v9f?twy.
assemblage of enthusiasts the dogged genius of
selfishness, and the spectacles of ruin and degrada-
tion which goad the enthusiasts to labour after a
scheme of amelioration, he shuts out from his
presence with, in the first place, a consideration of
the pleasure that drink provides. It is easy for a
man like that to argue la a sledge-hammer way. It
is easy for him to make it appear to some that his
opinion is final.
* * *
In view of the prominence given to the pamphlet
of this anti-crusader, we have turned to a work
entitled “Study and Stimulants.” The style and
scope of the work at once impress one favourably.
Instead of the empiric we come into contact with
the Investigator. Luckily, the first point on which
Lord Bbamwell relies on in his pamphlet gets no
place in the book. hatever threshing out the
point merits it will, no doubt, receive at the
hands of the avowed advocates of reform. The
author of “ Study and Stimulants ” concerns
himself solely with the second and third points.
He collects evidence to ascertain whether or
not alcohol ministers to the intellectual facul-
ties. He does not spin theories, he does not
court science. In respect to the use of alcohol
he presents us with the habits of most of the
leading men in literature, science, and art
of the present day. If in a full sense of the
word, these be habitual drinkers of spirit*, Lord
Bramwell is right. If it is found that they either
do not drink, or drink so little that the influence
of alcohol cannot be fairly counted on as a factor
In their Intellectual strength, then, we think,
Lord BbamweW/b second and third points, to
whatever extent supported by Sir James Paget,
Invalidated. Mr. Rbade, the author of the book,
believes he has succeeded in demonstrating this.
* * *
The work consists of letters written by eminent
men on their own use of stimulants. That portion
of the work devoted to narcotics we allow to stand
aside for the present. We have room for but a
few selections from the revelations on stimulants.
They will, however, we think, surprise those who
fancy that literature and liquor are Inseparable.
* * *
Professor Bain writes to say that he finds absti-
nence from alcohol essential to his Intellectual
effort. JohR Stuart Blackie adopts the same
view. Robert Buchanan never drinks during
hours of work. George R. Sims rarely touches
alcohol. R. A. Proctor believes it injurious
Francis W. Newman never used, and does not
know when spirits ever did any good. Mark Pat.
tison did not begin using wine till he was 37; at
first the effect was favourable to brain-power*
“but was always followed by corresponding re-
action towards feebleness.” At 57 he gave up
wine, and “ found general advantage from doing
so.” Leone Levi, who often works 10 hours
a day, only occasionally takes a glass of
wine or ale with food. W. E. H. Lecky
admits the use of “a moderate quantity of
wine.” George Jacob Holyoakb never took
enough of stimulants to tell whether the effects
are good or bad. W. D. Howells seldom drinks
wine, and thinks when he dots that it weakens
his work. James Anthony Froude takes wine
In moderation. For most of his life the Duke of
Argyle took no alcohol in any form, but lately
he takes a small fixed quantity under medical ad-
vice as a preventive of gout. Matthew Arnold
drinks water in the middle of the day and sherry
or claret at a late dinner. Joan Tourgubneff
uses no alcoholic drink. Mark Twain, who con
elders two glasses of champagne an admirable
stimulant to the tongue, never know the time
when he could write to his satisfaction after drink-
ing even one glass of wine. Professor Haeckel
takes very little alcohol, and finds it of no value
as a stimulant. Sir Charles Dilke, although be
grows wine, never drinks it. Gladstone drinks
one or two glasses of claret or other light wine at
meals, but no fiery stimulants.
♦ • ♦
We miss from Mr. Reade's book the names of
many men whose experiences would be interest-
ing. A future edition may, however, reach them.
The present volume is nevertheless extremely
valuable. It acts as an antidote to the views of
Lord Bbamwell. It acts as an antidote to a pes-
tilent social delusion. The connection between
gin and genius gets formed in the public mind
through the ill-starred ends of a few brilliant men.
The “graves of Mangan, Maqinn and Burns,”
and two or three others have been made do service
so often that the public thinks them the necropolis
of all high talent. Mediocrity that fuddles
is called genius. The literary man who
dies drunk is surer of apotheosis from his
generation than if he had writteq an liliad.
When his generation dies, he falls, of course, from
among the gods, but while he live?, he is acted
upon by this stupid notion of the people about
him. He lives drunk and dies drunk. As ho hic-
cups his hapless way through life, he hears the
Stupid public say, “There’s talent for you; there’s
genius for you; only, you know, the old thing!”
His end is ill-starred as his days are three-starred.
Lord Bramwell docs not advocate intemperance.
But inasmuch as he maintains alcohol to be a
factor, and an important factor, in intelleotuaj
supremacy, he appears to be wrong, and the error
is one more whet to the pestilent social delusion
In whose baleful light drones drivel to oblivion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sydney D.T. on Protection
When news Is scarce and the Parliamentary recess
deprives the reading public of a good deal of inno-
cent amusement, the D.T. cm always be relied
upon to supply food for laughter. Its latest
vagary is on the subject of 11 Protection,” and has
reference to a recent meeting of Protectionists at
the Temperance Hall. These misguided people
contrast the manufacturing activity and enter-
prise of Victoria and other Protectionist countries
with the apathy and supineness of New South
Wales, to the marked disadvantage of the latter.
They think that they, and the working community
at large, would benefit by the adoption of a pro-
tective policy. But the D.T. knows better. “ If
these people,” it says, “believed that the case
would be otherwise, that is to say, if they believed
that the Imposition of a protective tax would not
add a single shilling per week to f f i- voges, it is
frigbly improbable that thejr yfoa , t a §ngoj to
obtain the establishment of the tariff.” There’s
acumen 1 And so true, too I It is extremely likely
that if bootmakers thought that the imposition of
a 20 per cent, tax would leave their wages just
where they are, or, perhaps, lose them a shilling a
week, they would not clamor to Impose the duty.
But how In the world did the D.T. find this out ?
There’s no keeping anything from that journal.
It is just because artlzans think that a high tariff
means high wages, increased oomfoit, and constant
employment that they agitate for It. “Protec-
tion,” the D.T, goes on, “ is a device of capitalist 8
to benefit themselves at the expense of the com-
munity in general, and the most painfully
oppressed victims of the scheme are the working
men.” If this doesn’t take your breath away we
have more to will. The capitalists of
Sydney hold aloof from Protection—condemn it.
This shows how patriotic they are, what self-
abnegation they possess, and how anxiously they
strive ta protect the working-man from himself.
They see that a high tariff would benefit them-
selves and put money in their pockets, but they
know at the same time that such benefit would be
“at the expense of the community at large”—
particularly the working-classes—and so, even at
a dead loss, they adhere to Free-trade I This self-
denial on the part of the importers and squatters
of New South Wales might be taken to heart by
thegreedy capitalists of Victoria, who persist in
robbing the poor workmen by means of an ex-
ploded fljcal policy. “ Some day,” again the
Telegraph speaks, “ the working-men of thf g
colony may get their desire,and procure the passing
of a law shutting out all foreign goods; if they
should, they will enjoy for a very brief season ex-
ceptional good fortune; but that season will be
followed by a long period of tribulation, which
will cause them to curse the day when they gave
their votes for the establishment of Pro action.”
There!,' We have exhausted whole libraries of
books on Freetrade v. Protection, but for really
unconscious humour we have not met anything to
approach this article. It never appears to have
even suggested itself to the writer that, after all,
even a common labourer knows the difference be-
tween 40s. and 80s. a week, knows when he and bis
family are hungry or ragged and when work is
scarce or plentiful. That they will “ curse the
day when they gave their for the establish-
ment of Protection” Is humour of the highest
class, considering that, when that fatal day comes,
they can change their votes and give them for
Freetrade Just as a doctor changes his prescription
when he finds the former medicine disagreeing
with the patient. The whole article shows that
there must soon be a Protective policy in New
South Wales when its opponents rely upon such
reasoning to prevent it.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ W. Seymour” : Ifo, indeed, Mr. Stafford
didn’t die from his kick at Band wick. He is still
very much alive “C. Perry”: Thanks “G.
Walker": Many thanks ..-.“Ex.Or.”: To hand
“Tamworth.”; We are tired of hearing stories
about old and young men who die on the steps of
the hospitals which have refused to admit them
because they can produce no order or no doctor’s
certificate “ K.C.B.” (Yass): Your items are
cheering. We rejoice to hear that your chemist
out his left leg, that the Goulburn masher, whom
the actor threatened to shoot, levanted to Qunda-
roo. and that somebody is about to put a child on
another’s doorstep. These are the things that fill
the universe with glee. Send some more
“C.C.J.”: The old circus gag about the police-
man arresting the pretended drunken man in the
ring is being started again by you and the papers at
Wagga. This story w; s exactly 16,000 years old
last birthday. Under these circumstances it is not
unnatural that the yarn should have been seized
upon as a new and spicy item by the Wagga
Evening Star—more especially after the usual
gargle had been administered by old Ashton...
*• Redhead ”: We are very sorry to hear that Beach
has no present intention of contesting the Wol-
longong constituency — “ E. S. J ”: Thanks for
your par. about the “hairy man.” We thoroughly
believe you. When you see him again don’t
fire at him. Take a dose of bromide of
potassium every two hours “ Murrumburrah ”:
As Mr. A. H. M r Culloch's alleged connection with
the erysipelatous dummying cases is sub judfee, we
can say nothing about the matter, and must de-
cline to reprint the Sydney detective office memo.
..."James M.”: Thanks. Happy ’tia to have a friend;
happier not to need him....‘‘R. Willis ’: thanks
“Curious ’: Freedom Is a female. Because she
“shrieked when Kosciusko fell,” of course Had
she been a man she would only have gone out tor
a drluk—"J. Richards”: The gallantry of the
French soldier, dear sir, needs no vindication, it
is written in the history of all the wars of Europe
since the time the Gaul contended with the armies
of CfBsar. Defeat at Waterloo, at Sedan, leaves
the French army with glory undimmed. But it is
at such times as Waterloo, Sedan, and Langsom
that the bourgeois of Paris makes an ass of him-
self— “No Treason”: We heartily despise you
and all so-called men of your kidney, Just as we
always strongly suspect the bona-fldes of the Irish
politician who yells out protestations of loyalty—
a loyalty be does not and cannot feel if he is a
whiteman — “Metier”: From the "Rime of the
Ancient Mariner.” The stanza runs thus:—
“ A gust of wind sterte up behind,
And whistled thro’ his bones,
Thro’ the holes of his eyes and the hole of his
mouth,
Half whistles and half groans.”
“Irene”: Don’t send us any (more verses for
two months. According to histologists, the human
brain is renewed every 60 dajs ...“C.C.”: Your
idea about aldermen and the Sydney water ques-
tion reminds us of the man who patented the
helmet for the protection of respectable citizens
liable to be exposed to thwacks from policemen's
waddies ... South Creek”: By all means change
the name of your township irora “St. Mary’s” to
Rosebery. But we oou’t quite agree with Mr.
Fleming that there is in the English Parliament
no greater man than Earl Rosebery,” or that “ no
greater man than the Earl has ever visited Aus-
tralia. Wentworth and fifty others were head
and shoulders over your titled little voluble sport-
ing god, whose one grip as a statesman consists in
the fact that he hears the tramp of the coming
democracy, and thinks he can humbug it...
. Oyster Johuuio ■ Taaoka lor yards waigy yyg
have altered slightly. Will be glad to hear from
you again “X.”: Have condensed two of your
pars., for which we are grateful. About the third,
we would like to know something more re the
documents, which were not bona fide. Lid some-
body write somebody’s name; if so, who ? If you
can supply these particulars, we will, perhaps,
notice the transaction “ Humbug ”: Sorry that
we can only utilise a small portion of your contri-
bution. Your’s is the 9999th letter sent to us
denouncing our patriotism as a fraud, and its
supporters as fools. But they are not fools, dear
boy. There is such a thing as “ Commercial Patriot-
ism.” “R8 W.” : Dr. Moran is. we believe, a
nephew of the late Dr. Cullen, the first Cardinal-
Archbishop of Dublin “Proteus”: Your
matter is good enough in one sense ; but it has no
local colour of any kind and is apropos of no cur-
rent event. So we must decline “ Timothy Tug-
mutton”: Please call on editor... “Biz”(Roma):
Next issue.. .“E.M.Y.”: If matter good enough,
very well “Subscriber” (Mt. Browne): We
have not before heard of the event alluded to—
“ Marco M’Guerin ”: The £10 from the “ Patriotic
Fund ’’ sent to Mrs. Lewis was only intended as an
advance to meet present necessities. There is no
doubt she will be properly provided for—“P.S.”:
The North Shore election wasn’t in any sense a
political contest. The politics of North Shore are
those of the road, the bridge, the tramway, and
the water-pipe. Must decline “Judge": Any
man who takes your perverted view of Dailey’s
action, must be suffering from intellectual
cramps supervening on fatty degeneration of
the mind......“ Nemo ” : The exact date on
which an offer of knighthood was made to Mr.
Dailey Is known only to the Imperial authorities
and to Mr. Dailey himself “ J. Watson”: If you
read the papers you will see that the Radical
leaders, Chamberlain and Dilke, are opposing a
renewal of the Coercion Bill "C.B.”:What
would have been the use of making Colonel
Richardson a Commander of the Bath? There’s a
drought on now, and he would be able to com-
mand no bath in Sydney —“Mars”: Veteran
Swamp is alleged to be full of sheep’s hearts and
livers. It would literally be “ offally plucky” to
drink water from that source “H.W.J.’ 1 (Pyr-
mont): Thanks. Will deal with it.
They had a grand night in the Adelaide
Oval lately, looking at what they fondly called a
“ picturesque oorrobboree.” About 20,000 people
assembled, and behaved themselves as people in
such numbers generally do, in the wild excitement
caused by 20 painted blacks dancing before camp-
fires, and half as many gins beating ’’ possum-
skins’’and singing “ Qulngi-nlngi guyah, guyah,
guyahl” There were very likely among the
sable exhibitors a few who remembered the time
when the oorrobboree meant a very different dis-
play ; and there may not have been so much
sarcasm as simple reflection in the question asked
by one of them at the Oval, “What namee you
call um dis ? ” said he, pointing at the throng
of whites. “ Me tlnkum whitefellows' oorrob-
boree.” Once these blacks assembled in thousands.
Then flashed the fires. Then danced the painted
heroes. Then boomed the ’possum-skin drams.
Then floated away on the breeze the liquid mono-
tone of the female Isingere. We've seen many cor-
robborees one place and another, but the largest
and best we remember was held in the Wide Bay dis-
trict, in Queensland, about 40 miles nottb of
Gymple. It was moonlight. There were not less
than 300 blacks present. There were not more than
40 white people present. It was bunya season.
The luscious fruit only comes out once in three
years, and, as the rivers and plains have been
taken away from the blacks, and their only chance
of a subsistence lies in their banging around the
doors of the whites, they avail themselves of the
bunya-season to Indulge in their inherent desire
for vagabondage. Around that part of the
country there is a forest of bunya trees. At least
a score of fires blazed. The bush was fairly quick.
Through it the red light gleamed, down on to it
the white moon shone. The blacks came forward
into the central space. Out towards the Rise and
Shine there was a mine of raddle. With this stuff
they smeared themselves red. They cross-barred
themselves with chalky clay* Then they danced
in the earliest of all fashions, performed selections
from the most primitive dramas, extemporised
man's first thoughts about the wonders of the
universe. A oorrobboree on a large scale has in-
terest, deepens thought, stirs the imagination.
And we remember that we (the collective whites)
had secured a welcome to the ceremony by
sundry promises to sundry chiefs. We had
plighted our troth that (tobacco would be forth-
coming, and that bottles of rum would tail up the
night. And impressed as we wern with the sim-
plicity of barbaric existence and full of philoso-
phical reflections upon the origin and progress of
our species, we went down to the public-house,
bought up the dry tobacco leaves In which the
weed for washing sheep is packed, divided three
bottles of rum into parts so that with molasses and
water they made up 18 bottles, and, distributing
them among the chiefs, departed our several ways
with easy consciences. Eheu! And a time will
come in the Wide Bay also when a grand oorrob-
boree will consist of 30 blacks only, and when
20,000 people will crowd on to them, panting to see
the wonderful ceremony 1
The Sydney Criminal Sessions brought to
the surface once more two tragic events that
created a great sensation in their time, and, as in
the story of Pharaoh’s butler and baker, gave re-
lief to one criminal, doom to the other. Some
years ago a youth named Johns was employed at
Mr. Long's factory in Ballarat East. He was, ap-
parently, an exemplary youth, and was a Sunday-
school teacher. Presently around comes “ Captain
Moonlight,” then released from gaol, on a lectur-
ing-tour, and all the foolish youths went to hear
the old humbug, who had a very oily tongue. The
result was that Johns joined the Moonlight gang,
which came to grief at Wantabadgery, several
paying the forfeit with their lives, one poor youth,
the son of most respectable parents In Melbourne,
dying under the fire of the police. He was, Indeed,
the only plucky fellow in the lot. So closed the first
act in the tragedy of Johns’ life, and with it
vanished the actors. New dramatis persona; were
to appear. In 1883 there was living in Hay a man
named Roberts, who had heon a butcher, but who
was then a “sport,” and owned racehorses. He
had been mixed up with a scandal, and had taken
away another man’s wife. That man, a publican,
was dead, but the parties had not been married.
Roberts owned a horse designed to become famous
—Terminus. This horse, which then had not made
a start, ran in a selling race, and was bought by
Mr Dillon, a Hay hotel-keeper. Roberts was furious
at this, as he thought there had been an understand-
ing the horse would be given back to him on pay-
ment of the amount given, while Dillon
determined to keep the animal. Well, one fine
morning—mornings are always line up there—the
new owner of Terminus arose to find his horse
missing. The police, however, found the horse on
the banks of the river, with its throat half cut.
Eventually a lad named Stewart was apprehended
and be made a clean breast of it. Roberts bad em-
ployed him to cut the horse’s throat in revenge.
The horse, however, when he felt the knife, sprang
off and broke the halter, getting away. The upshot
was that Roberts got eight years and Stewart six
months. One of the most romantic incidents of
the case was the marriage of the convict Roberts
and the woman alluded to, in gaol, in order to give
her a right to look after his property.
Roberts vanishes until he was recently
stabbed in Parramatta Gaol by the con-
vict Johns. The affair was most peculiar. Johns
asked Roberts what another prisoner had been
saying about him, and on being answered “no-
thing,” stabbed Roberts in the breast. His defence
was that he had fallen desperately in love with a
lady in the gaol, and become Insane. Now, Johns,
who is only 23, is sentenced to death the second
time, and Roberts, who is middle-aged, has been
set free after doing two years out of his eight.
Johns’ career may soon close on the scaffold; what
Roberts will be remains to be seen. As for Ter-
minus, he has changed owners and now races over
the sticks.


When the lamp of lif .... , l3 low, use
Wolfe's Schnapps. It will giv. j on a new life.
If El Mahdi should lose his teeth, would
he talk gum Arabic, or would the English Sudanlu
lose a Tartar1 Answer to be found at Marshall
Brothers, who are practising dentistry on the
largest scale in Australia, and manufacturing
artificial teeth for the million at their extensive
premises, 133, Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.*
When the vital system has been weakened
-use Wpiijrjs’i-} Squaws to renovate it.
The Echo wonders at the increasing num-
ber of suicides. We don’t. People will read the
evening papers.
Sir Julius Benedict, the eminent musician,
after a somewhat lengthy illness, has gone to make
music In another world.
The Judge reserves his decision re the
anolioation for a new trial In the Malpas divorce
“£ae. The evening papers are, therefore, still in
b °ft 68 is now said that Joseph Cohen, the
roller-skater, died of a broken heart and not of
river-exertion, as at first reported. Hearts are
sometimes broken in roller-skating rinks, but, as a
Jule, the more exposed portions of the body
suffer most.
In the matter of King Tawhaio’s petition
relative to the Maori settlement, the English
Government decided that they were not entitled
to interfere in the affairs of an autonomous
colony. Have they profited, then, by the ex-
perience acquired in Afghanistan, Egypt, and the
ghastly Soudan 7
Bold Woolnough’s left the Sydney Morning
Herald for Brisbane
To help the Evening Telegraph In warring
against sin; ,
Another parson takes his place; twill soon be
Osborne’s reign.
The same’s Below —when one goes out, another
rambles in.
Twice, lately, a business-man’s well-in-
sured premises were burnt down in his absence, in
this way: He had fastened tempting pieces of fish
all around a wire hoop, put the hoop on the table,
and placed a lighted kerosene lamp in the centre.
Then he turned a few hungry cats loose in the
room, locked the door, and went off to some place
of amusement, so as to furnish a satisfactory alibi.
The oats fought for the fish, upset the lamp, and
the bouse wad set on fire.
Fauntleroy, the elegant London banker,
hanged for forgery in 1834, used to give marvel-
lous dinners, and at them a matchless ourayao.
Three of his boon companions had an interview
with him in the condemned cell the day before his
execution. They were about to retire, when the
most impressive of the three stepped back, and
said: “ Fauntleroy, you stand on the verge of the
grave: remember the text, my dear man, that ‘ we
brought nothing into this world, and it is certain
we can take nothing out.’ Have you any objec-
tion, therefore, to tell me now, as a friend, where
you got that Curasao ?”
Archbishop Moran, of Sydney, has ordered
the R. C. parochial clergy to deposit their last wills
with the diocesan secretary, to be kept by him in
the diocesan safe. Some think this very arbitrary,
but one old sogarth olimbed up on the table and
explained the situation thus; “Ye needn’t. Yo
can’t. How can ye? D’ye see? Ye haven’t yer
last will. Ye dunno what it is. Ye oan’t tell it’s
likeness. Ye only have yer present will. Yer
present will is won’t, If It’s anything. But his
Grace won’t take yer present will. He wants yer
last one. Tell him ye haven’t got it yet. Tell him
ye’ll give it when ye get it. Ye can’t help it. How
can ye 7 D’ye see 7 ”
From the Herald: —“Dear Janie.— Write
home to Jamberoo; mother is breaking her heart.”
Well, well; this is rather too bad. Can’t a pore
girl follow up a circus without being annoyed in
this way? But somehow we’ve never known a
girl who did follow up a circus that wasn’t worried
in some manner. It’s a glorious life, anyhow.
You’ve got to wash for your horse-rider, pink his
tights, find him in his pocket money, and pretend
not to know him when you meet him with the
ringmaster in the street. When you’ve a black
eye, you’ve got to endanger your chances of sal-
vation by swearing that you', fell against a clothes-
prop whilst firing at a cat, and you must, mind, in-
dicate which ciothes-prop, and whose cat, in order
toeairy the thing off with ao air. At his com-
mand you must, at times, appear professionally
—going on as a crowd of villagers in Dick Turpin
or perchance, spreading yourself out to represent
a band of mounted huntsmen in “Jack the Giant
Killer.” The remuneration attached to those per-
formances just suffices to keep the horse-rider in
brandies ‘sour before he rises, and yourself in
liniment. It will thus be seen that, with the charm
of the thing full upon her, it is Must about 6 to1
against Janie s writing as requested.
As a magnificent specimen of colonial sub-
editing, we commend our readers to a par. from a
recent Ballarat Star, copied in its integrity (with
the addition of sensational headings) into Tues-
day’s News. Here it is a little cut down:—"An
Australian youth. His career in London. The
Soudan expedition helps him along. A corres-
pondent of the Ballarat Stab writes:—A young
friend of mine proceeded to London . . . and
eventually be secured a position at Shaw and
Edgar’s. Subsequently be applied, In reference to
an advertisement for a young man in Whitelaw’s,
one of the largest mercantile establishments in
the world. To the question, ‘ Where are you
from?’ the youth replied ‘Australia.’ ‘Then I
engage you at once,’ said Mr. Whitelaw, ‘ you sent
your men to help us, and we will help you,’ and
there the young Australian will remain until ready
to sail for home.” Two editors have evidently let
this hideous bosh pass. There is no such firm in
London as ‘‘Shaw and Edgar,” and that Whitelaw
owns one of the largest mercantile establishments
in the world will be news to lots of sober people.
In Regent-street, London, there is a large firm of
drapers trading as “ Swan and Edgar,” and
“ Whiteley,” the great general provider, is known
to a few outside the voisinage of Westbourne
Grove. Mon who pass things like these ought
either to be sub-editing a horse bazaar, or con-
ducting with much success a ten-pair chicken
farm.
We knew that, if it was to be done at all.
Sandhurst would do it, We know men there—old
Bendlgomans, who revel In tales of ’51- that would
make a Hebrew auctioneer blush—and when they
hear where an ounce of gold is to be found they’d
shift the Tower of London to get at it. They are
iconoclasts of the worst description — persons
whose hobby is tojflnd gold, if they have to sacri-
fice all their nearest relatives in the effort. All this
will explain their latest dodge. Someone told them
that sea-water yielded a grain of gold for every
400 gallons. This set them thinking and scheming,
io commence with the Pacific and evaporate it
was their first thought. But there were difficulties
& « 0 way, especially as the Panama Canal would
be finished in a year or two and the Atlantic water
might get through that way. Then they thought
of the Victory and Pandora mine—one of the
deepest in Bendigo, and one of the richest. Fifty
thousand gallons of water a day were being
pumped from this block. This set the gold-seekers
a-cypharing. “ if sea-water contains so much
k°ld, they said “what must Pandora water be
worth? And they are going to try, too—will
form a company with a capital of £10,000, vote
themselves in as directors, dummy all their shares
the first day, make 3d. calls till the capital is all
gone, and have an ounce of gold to show this
time next year when the “ Great Victory and
Pandora Gold and Water Co., Limited” bursts.
Advance Bendigo I
Things One Reads About.


Personal Items
A thrilling item of fashionable intelligence
is that Mr. Upjohn, ex-hangman and llagollator, of
Melbourne, has arrived in Sydney.
Prince Bismarck’s income is under £20,000.
Harry M'Quade’s is largely over this. But Harry
will be heard of yet! Hold on till his new brain
comes home I
Archibald Forbes was asked by the Lon-
don Daily News to go to Suakim. He was ready
to go, but his medioal attendant absolutely for-
bade the enterprise.
Mr. H. M. Chester, P.M., the historical
“ annexer” of New Guinea on behalf of Queens-
land. who has been removed from Thursday Island
to the Johnstone River, was, it now appears,
turned outof the island through political influence
exerted by some of the local publicans who kill
more than they cure.
It Is understood in the lllawarra district
that Sir Alexander Stuart, K.C.M.G., has now
practically retired from public life. He will de-
votfe his remaining years to lying wrapped up In
his blanket with his knightly sword about him,
and to assuring a sympathising public, by sign-
board, that It can only land at Mcssman’s Bay, “on
sufferance.”
General Graham, when addressing the
N.S'.W. Contingent at Suakira, said that "the intel-
ligence of the men rectified the mistakes of the
officers.” This information is contained in letters
recently received from some of the volunteers.
On looking back over the files of the dallies, we
find that this remark was not included in the
cabled report of the speech.
There are in Sydney only three decently-
paid Consuls—those of America, France, and Ger-
many. Yet there are a huge number of gentlemen
who, on every official occasion, sport gold lace and
such titles as “ Consul-General for Tongatahoo,”
or “Vice-Consul for his Majesty the King of Yana-
boogalowjongoloyah.” The salaries of these gentle-
men consists of from one to three bunches of
bananas annually paid unpunctually in arrear.
Mr. E. B, Loughran, who —as we stated in
a former issue -graduated in journalism under the
late William O’Carroll, Is employed on the staff of
the Victorian Hansard. By the reports of the
Melbourne papers on the Civil Service Commission,
we see that his salary is £600 per annum. So you
will perceive that all journalists do not pass the
evening of their Jives In the Benevolent Asylum.
What makes the fact more miraculous is that Mr.
Loughran is something of a poet. Probably, how-
ever, his poetry does not amount to high treason.
About a fortnight ago, Dr. Moran, the
B.C. Archbishop of Sydney, had occasion to visit
the Education office. He interviewed Mr. John-
son, the Under-Secretary—a jovial Yorkshireman,
as everybody knows—and, on entering the room,
extended three fingers to that, gentleman. Mr.
Johnson, thinking His Royal Highness (or what-
ever his tide to precedence may be) wished to
■hake hands, cheerfully seized the extended digits
and shook them heartily. The Archbishop
tumbled to pieces. He had taken J. for one of his
flock, and had given him his apostolic benediction
as a prelude to business.
Prince William of Prussia, eldest son of
the Crown Prince, is to publish a work on “The
Wars of Caesar, judged from the standpoint of
modern strategy.” Let’s see. Who was It wrote
the last book about Caesar ? The Third Napoleor,
of course. Ominous. But there Is one more
illustrious author to oome. His book is to be
about Alexander the Great, and Is to have the
motto, “ Give me more worlds to conquer.” Cer-
tain privileged persons, who have been admitted
to a sight of the proof-sheets, say that the effect
of the book on the little boy at Manly will be
terrific—to the Manly goats.
Pastor Allen has made his way into the
Sydney ecclesiastical precedence question. He
contends, with great vigour, that Her Majesty’s
Coronation oath is not a denominational but a
national one, and that it refers not to Anglicanism,
but Protestantism. Out of these conclusions he
deduces two positive results — first, that R.C.
Bishop Moran had no right whatever to first place;
and, second, that Anglican Bishop Barry had no
more right than any other Protestant. Through-
out the letter there is a tone that Implies one other
result had been arrived at by the gifted writer,
namely, that if precedence was to have been ac-
corded to anybddy it should have been to Pastor
Alien.
The spicy stories that were told about
pretty Miss Fortescue scandalising Earl and Lady
Cairns during her visit to them enfamillc, as their
hopeful son’s " intended,” probably bad some
foundation in fact. Sha is now running a com-
pany of her own with the £10,000 damages squeezed
out of Lord “ Gumboil,” or rather out of bis late
lamented papa, and has been guilty of the unpar-
donable depravity of playing in Glasgow on Good
Friday. A lady who could thus desecrate that
old-established and moveable feast—and In Glas-
gow of all places—is certainly not worthy to be
elevated to the rank of a British peeress. How
such ladles as the Duke of Marlborough’s titled
paramour and others of her ilk would have looked
down upon “ the Fortescue” to be sure!
Lord Augustus Loftus is, we understand,
at least not averse to the release of Alphonse
Bechet, the Sydney merchant, who, four years
ago, was sentenced to seven years for alleged
arson; but H. E. declined to make any order for
the prisoner’s discharge without the concurrence
of Sir—let us not forget the Sir—Alexander Stuart.
When Sir Alex, was appealed to, the other day, on
the subject and told that “a word from him would
release the prisoner,”,he somewhat .cynically ob-
served that such was, no doubt, the case—a word
from him would release all the other prisoners,
too. Bechet, by his good conduct iu gaol, has
earned the maximum remission of “time,” and
will, consequently, be discharged in the ordinary
course within a few months.
The Earl of Pembroke (joint author of
“South Sea Babbles ”) is meditating a long sea
voyage, which will not improbably carry him as
far as New Zealand and Northern Australia. The
tour will be made in a splendid new yacht
of 300 tons, which is being specially built by Laird
Bros. Lord Pembroke, since his last visit to Aus-
tralian waters, has got rid of at least a little of his
Radicalism. Ho has a good brain, and would have
made a sensation in English politics had his teeth
not been clipped by the wiles of his order. We are
afraid that he will never again bear a hand in the
writing of such a book as that by which he is
known in the colonies; his forthcoming cruise
will he looked upon w’lth complacency by even
the missionaries, who of old regarded him as their
mortal enemy.
Among the numerous good stories tbld of
Father Tim M'Carthy, late ot N.8.W., Is one which
relates how, while travelling in New England with
the late Archbishop Vaughan, he found himself
compelled to call in and accept a night’s hospitality
from a certain well-known Scotch squatter, who,
though an open-handed host, was a remorseless
Calvinist, and cordially hated Rome and the Pope.
In the morning, jt was announced by the groom
that the Archbishop’s horses had utterly broken
down, and that Dr. Vaughan and bis companions
would have to be dependent on Mr. Sandy
M’Haggfs for means of convevance to the next
homestead. So Father Tim went to Mr. Sandy
M‘Haggis and made a neat little speech, saying
how grateful the Archbishop and he were, and
#d4ia£-“<45d 99 Wj dear friend, Mr, M’fiaggis,
you’ll make my cup of gratitude fairly brim over if
you’ll just lend me a pair of horses to drive Anti-
christ as far as Bolivia.”
Dr. Joseph Pope, the fattest man con-
nected with London journalism, is, alas! no more.
This Joe Pope acquired considerable notoriety in a
certain circle, more on account of his bodily bulk
and ponderous linpudenoe, than for any ability he
may have boasted. Among the smaller theatrical
fry and their “gillies,” Joe was a great man, and
as a constant bar-attendant, he attained a proud
pre-eminence. Any wandering Australian who, in
the course of his travels in the “great metropolis,
has paid a visit to the Gaiety bar, will probably
emember gazing aghast at a figure seated at one
of the side-tables, A man wita a pasty little face,
many sizes too small for his gigantic stomach,
wearing upon his little head a big sombrero hat,
carefully arranged d fa brigand, and holding in his
pasty hand a glass of whisky, or of tener merely
the glass That apparition was the notorious Joe
Pope, who has now taken his departure to some
phantom buffet in the land of shadows. Fat
Joseph, by the way, must have been a “shocking
example ” in the eyes of his brother, Samuel Pope,
Q.C., who is a red-hot temperance orator.
Another old digger has gone to his last
home. That is a very expressive phrase, particu-
larly in a land of nomads, but we have not time to
dwell upon it- Thirty-two or thirty-three years
ago, when everybody sure of his legs holding out
made for Forest Creek in Victoria, a young man
of about 30 years of age might have been found
among the throng that believed sods only had to
bo turned to lay bare measureless exnansos of
virgin gold. This was Mr. Brlca Frederick
Bunny. He was a Newbury man, an Eton
man, a Lincoln’s Inn man. He did not make
much gold at Forest Creek or its vicinity, and
sinking (for in his days it was always sinking) to
Melbourne, he began business as a barrister in the
County Court. His knowledge of goid-fleld prac-
tices now fitted in, and in the numerous cases that
arose on the gold-mining centres he acquired-the
fame of being the most reliable of equity lawyers.
He sat on the County Court Bench, represented
St. Kilda in Parliament, filled the position of Com-
missioner of Titles, and last week was carried out
to the St. Kilda Cemetery, where he will lie till
we are all panned out.
The Mayor of Melbourne is now an object
of worship among the publicans of that city. He
made a speech at the late meeting of thb Licensed
Victuallers’ Association—of which ho is president,
being a wine and snirit merchant himself—that
made the blood of his hearers dance in their veins
like new colonial wine. The gist of it was that
the publicans were a most deserving but unfor-
tunate class, ground down under the iron heel of
a Tyrannical Police; but that the time was fast
approaching when they would have their rights.
Whose else rights they will have he did no more
thanhintat. But it is a severe kncck-out for Local
Optionists and such like enthusiasts when the
Chief Magistrate of a grt at city stands forth openly
as the Apostle of Liberty and Liquor. Ever since
the delivery of this speech a snowstorm of hand-
bills has fallen unintermit I n'ly in the streets and
lanes of Melbourne. Thesa documents call upon
every man whose soul is not dead within him to
“ enrol, enrol,” and get the public-houses opened
on Sunday. We should fancy the difficulty will be
to get the signers of the proposed petition suffi-
ciently sober to bo able to remember their names.
Mr. Gibbs, the Newtown (Sydney) legisla-
tor, seeks the honour of being president of the
Cabdrivers’ Association. But the constitution of
the ofilce Is that the president must himself be a
cabdriver. Mr. Gibbs has, therefore, provided him-
self with the necessary vehicle. After reaching
this stage he Is told that to drive the cab a license
from the local council Is required. He applies for
bis license and, in accordance with custom, is in-
formed that his application is under consideration,
and will be decided upon when the usual Inquiries
have been made as to sobriety, intelligence, and
ability. His friends are determined to do all they
can tor him, so that his chances are very fair.
But a licensed cabdriver must attend his stand a
certain number of times in the year, and be pre-
pared to ply If wanted. This opens up grand possi-
bilities. Jehu Gibbs, M.L A., will hardly press for
a fee. Other Jehus press hardly for a fee. This is
a point in which the Press is deeply interested.
What if Jehu Gibbs, in his compulsory vehicling,
vehicled the Press ? The Press has often been a
vehicle for him. If he agree we suggest that he
give a seat first day to a D.T. leader-writer. If he
breaks his neck we will next day contribute a
poet.
A bit of neat writing from—need we say
it?—San FranciscoBrief and bright was the
career of Barrios, Dictator of Five Republics. He
rose like the sun that comes up from the sea, and
laid bqid upon tUe eword of bis fathers, aud the
throng of ghosts that clung about its blade fled
shrieking, dim-visible in its gloomy splendors.
His glances fell as streams of red lightning from
beneath his cloudy brow; his'voice went out or
him thunderous. ‘Come on, you! ’ cried Barrios,
Son of the Tempest and the Night, Dictator of
Five Republics. Thev came on In quantity. They
accepted the hospitality. They stayed not upon
the order of their coming, but came Immejib. in-
terested were they in Barrios, and concerned
curious-wise. They swarmed him—Barrios the
Five Dictators. Whose ghost bestrides the nlght-
wiudand shakes an airy blade? Whose immortal
part stalks gigantic in stormy spaces and glowers
darkly from the misty hills? Who rears his rugged
head athwart the bloody moon, shadows in his
awful eyes? Is it thou, Barrios-thou the Holy
Terror! Mighty wert thou in thy day, O chief-
strong upon the Guatemalan hills. But they got
away with you—they did most consummately,
minutely and altogetherly wipe you up I’ This
is the hand of friend Bierce.
Jimmy M‘Kean, once tbe “Honourable,”
which title was tafeen from him by “that man
M'Colloch,” is big as ever, and is to be seen in
Collins-street, Melbourne, at all hours, full of all
his old aggressiveness. James still holds his grudge
against Sir James M'Culloch, but unfortunately he
can’t retaliate, for he and his foe are out of
the House. But that’s one satisfaction for him to
be out in the cold with his enemy. M'Kean has
become very white, but he has all the vivacity and
energy that characterised him when on the Ovens
and Murray Advertiser, and when Minister for
Lands. And this brings to us some reflections on
the evanescent nature of greatness in the Austra-
lian Colonies. Sir James M‘Culloch,who once almost
caused a revolution in Victoria, who was reviled
and belauded beyond many men, walks Collins-
street without a soul to do him honour. People
don’t even turn their heads to look at him, whereas
once he could not appear on the street without a
lot of idiots cheering and hooting him. Edward
Langton, who, like Brown the tragedian, was “a
great man In his time,” is the least observed of ob-
servers in Collins-street. His face is, if anything,
more saturnine than of yore; even the money he
got for the railway accident has not sweetened his
acidulated soul. And last, but not least, there’s
our own Sir ’Bnry—wno looks at him now ? Not
even the underground engineers. Sic gtoriatransit
mundi— which is very old, but very true. But
when men, like Sir B James M'Culloch, have
gathered the bawbees what need they care ? All
politicians are not Hanley Bennetts.
The “Special Soudan Correspondent” of
the Inyereil Argus sends a delicious account of
the “ battle ” (shades of Napoleon I) of Tamai. He
says:—‘‘As we marched on, the Arabs commenced
firing upon us. We were under a severe fire for
about an hour.'* The “severe fir ” killed one
man out of 10,001, although it Ouly lasted for
“about an hour.” This sanguinary struggle recalls
the battle-royal fought on the Etheridge some
years ago between two partus of Chinese, who
beat tom-toms and fired guns day and night for a
week. In the result, one party was disastrously
routed, wita the loss of a Mongolian, who
had his toa smashed by a rock. What the
“War Correspondent” was in his native In-
verell wo know not ; in the Soudan he
is—but let his own quaint language tell it: —
‘ lam getting along famously with Dr- Proud-
foot, who shows me lots of things. My inex-
perience has c s’. mo one or two mistakes, how-
ever, one of wi io , was to administer the wrong
medicine to t wo men, who, I am glad to say, were
none the worse for it.” Where is the medical
staff that this amateur should be allowed to “ get
along famously ?” Itlsa wonder, with such sur-
gery, that the Patriotic Fund will suffice for the
widows of the slain. His following statement
shows the utter humbug of the offer of the Con-
tingent for service in India. Listen:—“ We were
all asked, the other day, who would volunteer for
India, and out of the whole Contingent only 150
offered. Only seven of the ambulance corps
volunteered.” Lucky for the N.8.W. Minister for
War that the offer for India was not accepted.
We have been looking through the
Liberator, which is nearly all “Jos. Symes,” and
we are bound to confess that we And Joseph dull.
Now that on lui a fait monU la tete Mr. Symes
seems to have grown—like Rochefort in his first
Lantern e— a bit reckless, as witness the following
aphorism:—“ We do not spare others; we do not
wish to be spared. The dissector who objects to
be dissected Is a pitiable mortal.” There is, too, a
turgidlty about the rest of Joseph’s “ copy ’’—all
signed—that is depressing. In an article with the
startling heading:—“The Queen’s Birthday; by
what right does she reign ? ” Mr. Symes gives us
the following interesting facts:—“In 1649 the
Commons chopped off Charles’ head in front of
Whitehall, and for 11 years there was neither king
nQjr queen in England, but a far greater tbaa tjgth,.
namely, Cromwell, who, for most of that period,
ruled the land as it never had been before. The Par-
liament offered him the crown, which he declined,
being contented to rule without the name or style or
king.” All this is true (and trite) enough, but what
we complain about it is that it is not " pernicious.”
In his letter to Dr. Moorhouse, Joseph states that
he has made ten converts to his lordship's one.
Very likely. It seems easy, somehow, in these
times, to make converts to Dullness. It is really
depressing to note how short Jos. Symes la, in his
wrestle with heaven, of similes I Now, supposing
the other side were to reply I Why, St. Luke could
dress Joseph down in half an hour, and afterwards
bamboozle him into having his portrait done in
oils at a high figure. Joseph has a lot of good
ideas, but he should certainly charter an angel in
helping him to spread them out. Didn’t a clergy-
man or two employ Charley Bright on the Sydney
D.T. ?
The Reverend George Walters of Mel-
bourne, is one of the most Quixotic of men. He"
took up the cudgels for Gladstone at the time
when the very mention of his name was a signal
for hisses. And now ho has manfully (and without
waiting to be asked, either) come forward to say a
good word for poor old Judas. According to Mr.
Walters, the world has calumniated Judas for over
18 centuries. His name has been so bedevilled
during all this time, that until lately men would
call a dog Judas—and hang him. But painters
have been his greatest enemies. They have made
him red-haired and cross-eyed, with a nose like the
beak of a vultilre, and the general expression of «
rattlesnake. This assemblage of separate and con-
flicting uglinesses in one face was intended to show
what a villain he was, and prevent the possibility
of a mistake between him and Simon Bar-Jona
and the rest of the respectable Apostles. Mr.
Walters says that this was all prejudice.
Judas was a moat gentlemanly man, and
of a very distinguished appearance— for an
apostle. He was very particular about his nails,
and first made himself unpopular among the other
eleven by openly using a tooth-brush. Mr. Walters
admits that there was a certain moral obliquity
about Judas, but not more than is common to
many well-connooted persons of the present age.
Besides, Judas had what is not common to most of
these —a conscience. When he turned traitor, he
had the grace to go and hang himself. There have
been worse people in the world than poor old
Judas. If he could have kept his fingers off .the
dice-box, he might have been a saint in glory now,
instead of ruining his digestion with brimstone-
curry in Gehenna. Young men, take this melan-
choly example to heart. Never throw against your
luck.
The new devotional poet of the pious
weeklies is the Rev. John IFletcher. Wo are not
great admirers of devotional poetry as a general
thing, but when we meet with a sample that has
the sterling ring in it, we are as quick to praise it
as anybody. We therefore print below a verse
from a poem of the reverend bard describing the
death of a sailor. The dying man says to a boy
beside him: -
“ So find a little prayer, lad, and read It up, right
So that the Lord can hear it, if it finds Him in a
crowd.#
I can scarce hear what you are saying for the
wind that howls to lee, _ , .
But the Lord will hear above it all, for He s been
out to sea.”
The exquisite Insight into the mind of a rough
mariner displayed in the fancy of the prayer
finding the Lord in a crowd marks the author as a
keen student of the wayward characters of men
of ihe sea. The dying sailor, you see, does not ex-
pect—as landsmen mostly do-that the Lord is sit-
ting up in Heaven holding an ear-trumpet to catch
the first words of his prayer from afar.
No, the Lord has His business to look after.
He may be alone, or talking with a few
favoured archangels, or in a crowd. There Is
no illiberality about the sailor. The Lord is His
own master, and can spend his time as He pleases.
But He might be in a crowd and, therefore,, the boy
is adjured to read the prayer up right loud so that
he may hear it anyhow. This is beautiful ana
touching, and eminently natural. But we thins
the allusion in the last line is in bad taste. The
dying man is supposed to be a deep-sea sailor, ana
could only refer to the boating adventures In the
Sea of Galilee in—Heaven forgive usl-a spirit of
badinage or of sly flattery when he said. For He s
been out to sea.” Either of these suppositions are
irreverent and, therefore, inadmissible. But as
the author lands his hero on the Golden Shore in
the last verse, we suppose the Lord allows a cer-
tain amount of sea-room to the humour of sailors.
Finally, we will say this of the Reverend John
Fletcher—that bis poems have put the character or
his Creator in a far better light than, probably, his
sermons ever did, and certainly than all the re-
ligious weeklies ever will. For the Lord has per-
mitted him to write like this and still live.
The career of Mr. Louis Brennan, the
young Australian whose portrait we now, give,
illustrates the value of perseverance. The peace-
ful community of Australia, engaged in no more
harmless sport than killing kangaroos or whack-
ing blacks or kanakas, has produced the inventor
of what would appear to be one of the deadliest
weapons of war ever made-the Brennan torpeao.
It would s?em, taking the Contingent racket ana
this into consideration, that we are likely to ne-
come the most martial people of the world, ine
story of the invention is remarkable, and quite as
authentic as that of Watt and the tea-kettle. Mr.
Brennan, who is not yet 30 years of age, when a
mere youth was in a Melbourne engine-ntnng
ahop. Sitting at home one evening, he amusea
himself with pulling at the cotton on a reel or
thread on the table, and was struck by noticing
that the more he pulled the further the reel roliea
away. At that time, torpedoes were the me-
owing to the execution they had done during tn
Russo-Turkish war. The Whitehead torpedo was
then the principal arm of the kind and the omy
fault found with it was that it would move in dui
one direction, so that the prey was able, if warm**
in time, to escape by changing its 0 1 ? u Sf 1 ', n i in
case was that of the wild beast, which, failing .
its first attack, tried no more. Experiments were
being made to get more command over it. gD _
young Melbournite, like other men in in*> g
glneering way, had thought of this, and ’* u “ n ,i
reward would meet the successful Inventor,
the motion of the reel gave him a clue ww “ g
patiently worked upon. Mr. Brennan tou V
scientific supporter in Professor Kernot, o
bourne University, and financial baoaor
Mr. Calvert, a Melbourne printer, ,. n0 wn
brother. Mr. Samuel Calvert, the wefi-au
Little Collins-street engraver. The two
found the money to maLe wording m
"15 000 BRITISH TROOPS ARB MARCHING ON HERAT,” SAYS IHE ‘‘ECHO,” WHICH
WANTS TO MAKE US ALL BELIEVE THAT THE ABOVE IS THE PRESENT ATTITUDE
OF GRAND OLD MAN GLADSTONE.
MR. LOUIS BRENNAN.


DR.SCOTT’S
■s et
C'
wr
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who 'will refuse to give them a
trial?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensatioh felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinoples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practice the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do* not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
T
i a
as
Dr. Scott's Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1 * ..
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
s. d.
6 8
8
10
15
15
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are Sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d.'added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
IATI0N,
54 Margaret-sfraet,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 221.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. The public should
demand and take none taut the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
The best internal disinfectant is Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest spirit known. Beware of
imitations.
After a good deal of pressure, Mr. Berry, then at
♦he headof the Victorian Ministry, was persuaded
1“ find Government money for a trial, which
rirnved so satisfactory that the Cabinet r. com-
nieaded it to the Imperial-War Office. We well re-
member how the friends of the clever ym ng in-
ventor had to dance attendance on the litt.e great
men to obtain a show for the Australian Inventor.
The Invention was then taken up by Mr. Millar,
the railway contractor, who found the necessary
funds for Mr. Brennan to go to England, to endea-
vor to get the British War Office to adopt the tor-
pedo. Mr. Brennan must have bad a big fight
iHth the do-nothings of Sir Joseph Porter. K.C.B.,
f 0r years have elapsed since the Victorian
vouth went home, and yet the torpedo
<ras only adopted a few days sines. How-
ever, perseverance has been rewarded, and
the plucky young Australian and those who stood I
by him In the dark hour will reap a goodly harvest,
while those who refused assistance will bite their
thumbs In chagrin. The Brennan torpedo is steered
and worked by means of a wire on a drum on the
shore. Complete power is obtained over the
motions of the torpedo, which is enabled to follow
Its prey In the sea in any direction, and to run it to
destruction. The operators can work In con-
cealment so that no precaution is of avail. The
mere fact that vessels know these torpedoes
abound, will probably make them keep clear of
shores so protected, and so what appears to be a
terrible weapon of war. may really be powerful
ipr peace. When the British War Office authori-
ties were persuaded there was something in Bren-
nan’s idea, they acted very handsomely to him and
to his engineer—the accomplished Mr. Temnerley,
also of VIctoria—the pair being provided with good
positions at Woolwich Memo, for young men:
Help yourselves, and the Powers will help you;
only mind, you will have to work and wait
seven years, like Mr. Brennan—and the patriarch
Jacob.
The Hon. and Rev. Mr. Baker, of Tonga,
2JJ* of the luxuriant little cocoa-nut islands in the
?outn Seas, will not die without leaving a name
oenind. He is at present, as readers may observe
J?i r {?P orta fr om Fiji and elsewhere, working with
ail his might to constitute himself Patriarch or
frPe, or something of that sort, with a dash of the
persecutor thrown in, over the simple
subjects of King George, of Tonga. King George
oow old and doting, and Mr. Baker, who carries
ue title of Premier, has possessed himself of the
mind, and in the Royal name Issues com-
mands which, in his official character as Premier,
Routes. Mr. Baker had always a strong turn
{"WUgloii'. If anything rivalled his passion for
j-mV? 100 ’ 11 was bis d e8 i re make money. In both
♦«pec:s he laboured to be head and shoulders
over every other body. And, as far as Tonga is
concerned, he has succeeded. In the early days he
worked as gold-digger in Victoria. There are
likely lingering vestiges of the burly digger to he
found still at Ballarat and Bendigo. The shovel
and tin-dish were not, however, the hringers of
fortune. He then became in a drug-store.
Carrying round pills and potions was also slow
work, and the enterprising Baker, finding bis w iy
to Melbourne, allowed himself to be converted by
an enthusiastic street-preacher. The creed Mr.
Baker favoured with his patronage was Wesleyan-
Ism. He now bade good-bye to the tic-dish and
gripped the plate like a man who meant business,
le had possibly one of the best voices In Victoria.
His manners were most Ingratiating, and he had
picked up a good deal of informatlon in his travels
and had learned to know human nature Intimately,
Such a man was sure to succeed as a Wesleyan.
He found his way to Sydney and was a shining
light among the people of that day. In 1800 there
was lamentation In Pltt-street when Mr. Baker
announced that he was starting off to show the
light of the Gospel to the people of Tonga-
tabu. In six years he returned, owing to
the decline of bis wife’s health, and was
the leader of Wesleyan thought all over
New South Wales for the ensuing three
years. He became chairman of the circuit.
Tonga was his field, however. He went back and
became no poorer. He told the Tongans of their
happiness In possessing a minister of the Gospel,
and also of the darkness in which natives of other
islands were still buried. The Tongans are a simple
people. They had little coin, but they gave their
word for various amounts to be devoted to paying
the expenses of a holy man to the benighted
heathens. Every traveller who has visited
the Islands speaks of the way the natives
are still harassed by the missionaries to send
money to the heathen. Sir Arthur Gordon,
who became Commissioner there, did not like
the doings of the Rev. Mr. Baker. Certain mat-
ters led the Wesleyan body to think they could
also live more piously without him. Mr. Baker
was at this time getting along well with the
Germans. It became absolutely necessary for him
to quit the Island. It became necessary also to
send in his resignation to the Wesleyan authori-
ties. In 1879 he entered Auckland, bringing with
him, however, the Crown Prince of Tonga, and
promising the King to return. This Prince died
suddenly, and after much romance Mr. Baker and
the dead body got into the house of King George.
Prom that day Baker became dictator. Woe
to the man that stands in his road 1 Many
who tried to lessen his Influence over the
natives have found this statement no empty
one. Certain envious British residents la Tonga
have, over and over, petitioned Sir Arthur Gordon
to secure his removal. But the Independence of
King George Is guaranteed, and while the King
lives, no influence will count against his Premier.
The latest scheme of the Hon. and Rev. ex-gold-
dlgger is the establishment of what he calls, face-
tiously, no doubt, a Free Church. They are all
Wesleyans or Roman Catholics In Tonga. Baker
does not touch the latter, as a French man-of-war
one time told him If he did Prance would annex
the Island. But after making the other half of the
population Wesleyans, he now wants to hurst up
the system. He orders them Into the “Free
Church,” of which he will be Pope. Those who re-
fuse are, according to the S M. Herald correspon-
dent. banished from their homes. Their churches
are seized. One man stands out stoutly against him
on the island. This Is the Rev. Mr. Moulton, prin-
cipal of the local college, and chairman of the Wes-
leyan district. The last message the king has sent
out is that those who remain In Wesleyanlsm longer
than a certain date ’‘will be shot down like
animals, their bouses will be burnt, their noses out
off, and themselves pitched into the r ea.” So says
the Fiji Times. The hope is that the seizure of
some churches in Habali will give the British Go-
vernment an excuse for formal Interference. If
not, a great outrage wifi be allowed to pass. It Is
not easy for the outside world to know the inter-
nal doings in Tonga. Fear of Baker is widespread.
The Levuka correspondent of the Herald is
trustworthy. Mr. Parker (a nephew of Glad-
stone’s, by-the r way) who corresponds .-with the
Fiji Times from Nukualoga Is also trustworthy.
But Mr. Baker's influence tells on the Auckland
Press, and such letters as appear in the Sydney
Daily Telegraph are not regarded with favour
by the British subjects or natives In Tonga. A
hardy journalist wont down there ene time to
start a paper on one of the islands, but he ran
I away in a very brief while, and died declaring
Baker was the d“vil 1 Baker had, it is said, put 9d.
a copy stamp duty on his unhappy journal. Any-
how—pull Devil pull Baker.
IN THE PARK—AN EPISODE.
ON THE MANLY BOAT.
This is Officer O’Brien.
This i> our new Nurse-girl.
This is dear little Henry.
This is a person known among his
acquaintiinces as “ Hungry Mike.”
This is how “ Hungry Mike” yielded to temptation.
When the band plays.
And this is how he was justly punished,
When the hat goes round,


3 T. GEORGE’S HALL,
5 Melbourne.
Lessee* Clark and Byman.
OPEN ALL THE TEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement Is now In its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by tho Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
In Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of “Bed Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
Itle will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
E
ilAQLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In c*rlot accordance with the Act.
FIRST
PRIZE
FIRST
PRIZE.
VALUE
£500.
SECOND PRIZE, £200, THIRD pRraE . £m
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £25 each. 550 „ „ £1 each.
40 „ „ £10 each. 300 „ j. lOs.each.
1000 PRIZES I .1000 PRIZE? I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N B —In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to And purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount In cash, less 10 per cent, for
C °The drawing to take place In June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
i
WlAG/c
MIRTH
ill
A New Book.
Containing over 250 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plained, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of Its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Kfed to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions, Is. 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes In the waistcoat pocket, yet can be Instantly
blown out to life size; screams awfully If smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing Infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their chewing presence.
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post It to us, en-
closing 2s. In postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at II p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, as '
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches In the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
B84 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
Nervous debility, lost vitality
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A simple
and positive means for Permanent Self-cure, by a
very eminent French Hospital Physician, scut
free to any sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O.,
Sydney.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE,
«...
-
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA, the Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE,
ACIDITY of the STOMACH, BILIOUS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
Invalids and Children.
&T See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies,
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Effectually destroys all noxious Insects, such as FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES, MOSQUITOES, and
COCKROACHES. It is quite harmless to Dogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animals. It Preserves Furs
from the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture, Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennels
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
Sold in Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS.
K. PROSSER & CO.
[ Sydney.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicyclerTTricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels,
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 George-st., Sydney.
castor i A
for Infants and Children.
C as tori a cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castoria is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., .
Ill Oxford Street, New York, a
Eixiott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BBACES.”
TUB
“CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS.
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
16 & IV CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of tV, BENNY FINDLAY & EDO., Melbourne k Sydney.
Professional Directory.
W.
Sydney
HORACE BUNT, with Hlsoooka* Federal
Minstrels, at iho Academy ol Music,
G
KORGB PB t 'il MAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Boyal, Bri < ; me.
G
A 1 K 1 V
J a B A T R a I
£ ieggee ... B. N. Jones.
-Proprietor and Manager ..
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Inimitable Irish Comedian,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
The Original
WIDOW O'BRIEN WIDOW O’BRIEN,
and bis famous
FUN ON THE BRISTOL
COMPANY.
The Great Success of
America, England, Ireland, Scotland, Australia,
and New Zealand.
The same did 6torY-“ I’m very sorry, but there
Is only standing room.” This Is what greeted late
returned to the home of his former triumph. So
be advised and secure your seats during the day.
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO. NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
The Funny Widow
The Funny Topsy
The Funny Steward
The Funny Captain
The Bogus Count
The Pretty Songs
The Jolly Music
The Artistic Dances
The Fhvourite Gems—
‘ My Darling, when we are made one.
•Never take the Horse-shoe from the Door.
“Peek-a-boo.”
“The Dandy Blues.”
“ Deep In the Golden Sea.”
&o., &c,
TO-NIGHT.
TO-NIGHT.
First time of „
“ Llddle Yaoup Strauss.” “ Pretty as a Violet.
“ Golden Love.” “ Sing, Sweet Bird. We ave
got a little baby.” " Dancing Dan.” My Dream
of Love.” “ Tlddy^fol-lol."
The Widow will sing, the “ Come all ye.”
THE BELLS OF SHANDON,
and the new and latest success, received nightly
with rapturous enthusiasm—
THE PLUM PUDDING.
t)on’t fall to hear The Plum Pudding.
You are sure to like The Plum Pudding.
I’ll tell you how to make Plum Pudding.
You all know how to eat Plum Pudd,ng.
Plum Pudding _
will be served out every evening by
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN.
“ Ybtit hair Is growing, It’s coming out well.”
“ Nora, trow out your chlst.
Don't Forget To-Night. To-Night.
The best entertainment ever afforded to a Sydney
public.
Special Announcement.
•, Special Announcement.
Special Announcement.
On Saturday Evening, June 13,
First Appearance of
B. d:T3AVIES
E. D. DAVIES. , , , _
The Undoubted superior of all Ventriloqulal En-
tertainers. Introducing the Midgets
JOB and GEORGE.
*• Hullo, Reilly, why don’t you come down In the
front ?”
Box-plan at Nicholson’s, George-street.
Representative for John F. Sheridan, Wm. Hughes
Assistant H.J. Samuel
Carriages may be ordered at 10 30,
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle. Is. .
fH HBATRB ROYAL.
■ Under the management of
"Mosers. Williamson. Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
EIGHTEENTH WEEK
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely,
The most perfect and successful Drama of the age,
SILVER KING
SILVER KING.
By Henry A. Jones and Henry Herman.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton and
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
r *Prioes r of t8 Admlsslon: Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
8s.: Family Circle, 8s. • , . _ . ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway s
Hotel. Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
TEW OPERA HOUSE.
% Lessees. Messrs. E. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. Joe Brown.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of the
MAJERONIS'
in the
FOUNDRY MASTER.
SATURDAY. JUNE 13,
FEDORA
Box plan at Huenerbeln’s. Prices as usual.
LOADEMY OF MUSIC,
Lessee and Manager.. Mr. F. E. HiscooKfl
53nd Week, and Second Year
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
IBOOOK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Sntbusiastlc Success of the Burlesque Opera,
MARY TURNER.
Ldmlaslon, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
ling's. Carriages at 10.16.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarkkt.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith
Stage Manager Mr. Edwin Shipp
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin
First time in the colonies. Artistic Triple Statue
Clog Dance, with limelight effects, by the
"— PERMAN FAMILY.
Two hours of Amusement and Comfort.
.MINSTRELSY, VARIETY, and BURLESQUE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s ; stalls. Is.;
balcony. 6d. CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Sydney Owl Club.
FOURTH ANNUAL BALL
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
TOWN HALL, THURSDAY, 18th JUNE.
(Compagnoni Catering Co. Caterers).
Tickets—Double, 30a.; Ladles’, 15s.; Gent’s, 2I«.;
Can be procured from Mr. A, N. Jonsen, Mr. E.
Cantor, of King-street; Messrs. A. and C. Huener-
beln, Mr. T. L. Clarke (P. Lassetter and Co.), Mr.
J. DeGroen, of George-street; Mr. R. J. Demford,
of Oxford-street; Mr. W. Stewart, of Pltt-street ;
from any of the Board of Management, or
Hon. Sec.,
364 George-street.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY*
Established 1873.
Capital-£100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
THE
Iir Unis Mg; Uim.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACH IN®
ever Introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
VT Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.*
Sold Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,.
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in me colony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.


»T 0U ™t charitable to suppose
that Mrs. Ollphant was not very well when she
wrote the story, “ Oliver s Bride/’ the King-street
“ 6 nM tri P m Phantly secured by
}$« D-T. OHver’s Bride" Is a pretty
little title, any way. The book would have at-
tracted a large amount of attention now had the
authorities conferred upon the hero a Brobdigna-
gian appetite and christened her work “ Oliver’s
Twist.” As a specimen of the slipshod style
in which the story is written we give the
following haphazard clipping:—“ ‘ It is Oliver’s
hand/said Grace, ‘I can bear whatever be has
written. But let me have it at once, for
this suspense is more than I can bear ’"
This, of course, comes of writing too much;*of
a passion for grasping the greed. Wilkie Collins
is similarly affected, for more unutterable bosh
than (say) Heart and Science,' was never writ-
ten. Now, J. J. Utting.the well-known Australian
novelist, can by no meats be said to deteriorate in
a like manner. His late production, “The Golden
Cross,” received some notice at our hands; and
the present one, named “Frank Calvary,” is for
many reasons entitled to a similar compliment.
The first instalment of this noble work is before us
as it appears in the Newcastle Fletcher, and we
must offer that journal our hearty congratulations
on having had the good fortune to grab such a
prize in the lottery of literature. “ Fran k Calvary ”
Interests you at once. Note, we pray, the opening
paragraph‘Sir Henry Cal vary was a i ioh baronet
with an Income of something like £30,000 a year.”
Look at that, now! Whose eyes would not, from
that moment, become glued to the volume ? There
is a frank, hearty tone about the story, too, that Is
very enthralling. For instance, when one of the
heroes speaks to the father of his #Jrl matrimo-
nially, there is none of that hum-in# and ha-in# so
irritatin# to the reader in some of Payn’s and
Black s novels. See how the father meets the pro-
posal:— Well/ said Mr. Berthold, ‘ I will not only
allow you to marry my daughter, but I will, if
agreeable to yourself, take you into partnership
with me, and we’ll carry on the business to-
gether/’’That s the kind of father-in-law for you!
None of the “Dr. Ceneri” business here, to bother
you. On the whole, we are inclined to pat Mr.
fitting on the back for “Frank Calvary’’—with a
club.
Frank Power, who occupied the dual
position of Times correspondent and British Con-
sul at Khartoum, in his private letters from the
Soudan thus refers to the Egyptian method of
government in that unhappv country:—“The
Soudanlandthe Arabs are splendid fellows; ground
down and robbed by every ruffian who has money
enough (ill-gotten) to buy himself a position of
Fasba, or free license to rob, they are quite right
to rebel and hurl the nest of robbers to the other
aide of Slout. For years it has been ‘ Kourbash
Infiriut kmnit!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
T> EG to Inform the public that, in consequence
- a ~ m of the
expiration of lease
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
CrRAND
mi SALE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLYl
The Goods are all marked at an
E SACRIFICE!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, l5fl
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s por pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, DOM
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4a, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s fid
each
Ladles’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladles’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 6s, and 6s each
Ladles’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 6s to 10s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
•*“ These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. £4 o o
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance £6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. ._. ... . £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses,. .. £2 16 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance... .. £4 16 o
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
Frad® .. £o 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket 10 0
Wo import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of ALL the saving thus effeotod-about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
In most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4|
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, gopd luck rings
2b 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only ha.f sets, Is 0d, 2a, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suite*,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6« each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s fid, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 4? fid, 5s, and 5s fid eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match. Boxes, 4g each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, 10a,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 3s, 3s 8 J, 3g,
3s fid, 4s, 4s fid, 5s, 5s fid, fis, fis fid, 7s, 7s fid, fis, 8a
fid, "9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ao*
compacted with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no on*
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Not® the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
kourbash, et toujours kourbash.’ This frets mono-
tonous, and the poor devils rebel. I will, indeed
forgive the fellow who puts his lance into me, 1(
that is to be my fate, because I will feel that he is
riirht as long as t am of the same colour as the
scoundrels who have robbed him and his for so
many years. How is the government of the coun-
try oarried on ? It is only the plains along the
banks <t the Nile-which are cultivated. Every
Arab must pay a tax for himself, children, and
wife or wives. This he has to pay three
times over — once for the Kedowi, oner
for the tax-collector or local Beys, and
once for the Governor-General. The last two
are illegal, but still scrupulously collected
to the piastre. To pay this he must grow
some corn, and for the privilege of growing
corn he must nay £3 per annum. To grow core
the desert earth must have water: the means of ir-
rigation is a ‘sakeh,’ a wheel like a mtll-whee 1
with buckets on it, which raise the water into a
trough, and then it flows in little streams over the
land. A sakoh is turned by two oxen. Every man
who uses a sakeh must pay £7; if he doesn’t use it
he must go Into prison for life, and have his hut
burned. Every one must pay for the right of
working to ear? money; everyone must pay if he
is idle: in any case, evervone must nay to make
the officials rich. If you have a merkeb, or trad-
ing brat, yon are fined £4 if you don't continually
tiy the Egyptian flag, and you must pay £4 for the
privilege of flying it. It is this system, and not the
-ivtabdi, that has brought about this rebellion. The
rebels are in the right, and God and chance seem
to be fighting for them, and, as long as
r 1 vo to see you once more, I hope they
i I hunt every Egyptian nock and crop
t of the Soudan. Better a thousand times
barbarities of slavery than the detestabb
barbarities and crimes of the Egyptian rulers.”
Yet it was to uphold the authority of these tyran-
nical rulers that Dailey, in an outburst of un-
reasoning and bastard loyalty, sacrificed a quarter
of a million of money and several valuable lives in
sending the swashbucklers of New South Wales to
Souakim to achieve glory by the capture of a few
sheep, several nanny-goats, and a lot of asses.
—
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make the best
and most agreeable drink in hot weather.
Dyspepsia, biliousness, nervousness an d
miserableness all cured with Hop Bitters. Genuin p
made by American Co. See.
Fair skin, rosy cheeks, sparkling eyes,
charming expression, and an elegant figure, com-
mand the attention of most persons; and so does
the very pretty powder sets, dinner sets, tea ser-
vice*, and china and glass, showing at Bray’s, 403
and 404 Gcorge-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those whenever
used the ge: uicc article ai o impo;ed upon.
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
HE BLUSHED.
I bey were a brace of Lands Office clerks
f. ‘ block” af ter their hard day's Siberian
hJLsoV 9 ne was b9 PPy and handsome, and
dressed in the height of fashion. The other looked
about as subdued as a man who had been nine days
drowned, and his clothes were calculated to make
®. v ?p a cockatoo” settler’s scarecrow weep at. the
«gnt thereof. The two loungers were passing the
U-.P.O., when suddenly the handsome clerk, catch
j * °f a Party coming the opposite way, hur-
riedly dragged his friend up Barrack-street, anA
exclaimed: I couldn’t have the face to mee:
9? at man. “Why, what have you done to
him ?- inquired the other. “ Well, nothin* ve- y
“.uch, J ep i ie ? the fl t 8t swe11 ; “but the fact is.
is r. F. Jones, the managing partner of Sum-
merfleld and Company. I bought this suit from
*“f?. ages^ago; but it was so cheap, and lasted so
well, that I have never had occasion to call on him
?. consequently I do not like to meet him.”
»< 8 a wrinkle for me,” said the goedy one.
__ knees » a nd nay coat gapes
up the back the first week I wear them.” That
day he was measured for one of Summerfleld and
Company s best £3 3s suits. The week after he
was promoted to class Al, at a salary of £750 a vear.
married a heiress shortly after, and is now waiting
for another Summerfleld sui£ to enable him to
enjoy his honeymoon on the “Cmtinong.” Gentle
reader —go thou and do likewise.*
The photo, of the renowned beauty, Mary
Anderson, can be seen in Bray’s window, 402
Ueorge-street, surrounded by some of the potters-
most beautiful works in art. Pottery and glass re-
ceived direct from the manufactories.*
Wolf*’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican- Accept no other.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
ra«A.Ta« Boyax—" Impulse ” p. 8.
opera House— “ The Foundry Master „
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.—Hiscooks’ F. Minstrel* „
Alhambra Music Hall Minstrelsy „
Gaiety Theatre “Fun on the Bristol” „
In the “Foundry Master,” at the Opera
House, there is much excellent acting. There
is also some that is not excellent. A further
acquaintance with Mr. Edwin Palmer’s Moull-
net provokes further dissent. The conception
of the character is good. A rich parvenu,
jingling bis money-bags in a bouse of fallen
fortunes, suggests effective situations. The sug-
gestion here remains unworked. Toe character is
an empty dotard. The writer of the play sinned
tlrst, Mr. Palmer helps on the villainy. He sits on
bis chair as man never sat. He crosses his legs as
man never crossed them. He gets his toe under
the petticoats of the Marchioness as awkward
man never did. Some laugh at this. The world
is old and sorrowful, but one can see the gay
smile that would gather about its toothless,
puckered mouth if the parent and foster parent of
the Moulinets, with those who call such things
witty, were tied in a bag and deported.
* ♦ »
Perhaps a little nearer nature is Mr. Arthur
Rodney’s Octave de Beaulieu. Octave is Clair’s
brother. He is a weak young man. He leans over
the shoulder of the Baroness de Prefont, and says:
We want an aristocracy within a democracy; the
aristocracy of tal-ontl the on-ly one worthy to
suc-ceed the arls-toker-assy of burth!” While he
is saying this, his right hand is groping through
the air near his coat-tail, and his eyes are in a
very watery way turned to the roof. He is
assisted in showing how many kinds of people
it takes to make a world by Mr. Alfred Booth-
man, as Baron de Prefont, and Mr. D’Orsay Ogden
as Bachelin, a notary. The former does not get
anything like scope. He is hardly wanted at all.
Alter leaving the Marchioness’s drawing-room to
take his top-coat off he might have rolled himself
up in it and gone to alesp. On the other hand, Mr.
Ogden was Indispensable. He was a very good
notary. His face had the dried, scrubbed look
that suited the character. And yet he had a heart.
It tells how well he acted when the heart talked
without disturbing the identity of the lawyer.
♦ * *
Mr. H. N. Douglas, as the Duke de Bligny,
bad not the best material, but he was consistent
and intelligible. He used the only chance he got.
That was in the scene with Clair, just before the
Insult. The mixed passions, the rapidity with
which he gave one after another prominence, and
the final resolution to adopt a waiting game, was
finely displayed. He was, of course, overshadowed
by Phillippe Derblay, but the two characters
existed congruously.
• • •
Derblay was a great character; full of
room, of force, of resources. In it Signor Majeroni
was himself. He did not so much appear to have
put on the character as to have evolved It. It
grew out of him. His figure and face are adapted
to carry great emotions; voice and gesture accord.
The three strong contrasts in the piece were found
in his character—as suitor, as bridegroom, and as
host. Perhaps there was a little too much “ gasp ”
about him when, after marriage, he is told he is
not loved, we have not seen the situation In real
life. We are not able to think of it as being
natural. If natural, we don’t think the newly-
married husband would “gasp” so long and bard
in the middle of the floor.
* * •
The women of the play are all good. Even
Miss Gwynne, as sly old Brigitte, did her little part
well. Miss Florence Lewis looked simple and
unaffected enough as Susanne Derblay, but one
would have expected better from her than to fall
in love with such a fellow as Octave. She said she
couldn’t help it. She was .In too big a hurry to see
and listen to him. Had she looked at and listened
to him a few minutes, she would have hit
him with her Brother's hammer. Of Miss
Dooy Mainwaring, the Baroness de Prefont,'
there was a little more use made than of the
Baron. She said that a woman never loves a man
until be has mastered her. That got great
applause from the house. Now, it la a false
aphorism. It takes its rise—But let us on. Miss
Blanche Lewis is a capital Athenais. She shows
spleen enough and spite enough. What she lacks
in power she makes up in perseverance. Her por-
trature of feminine malice of the waspish, vixenish
kind was of a high class. Still she revealed a
weakness In her hardest moments. It may have
been the actual sense of her inferiority to her
fellow schoolgirl that marred the stern bitterness
of her look now and again. If so, the cowering,
abashed glance was fine acting. But the tenor of
the play did not seem to afford this view.
* * ♦
Signora Majeroni w is great. As Clare de
Beaulieu she is full of interest. Like her hus-
band, she does not assume, but evolves. Ciair is a
tortuous character to manage. She is a series of
delicate vibrations. Her emotions quiver. Her
thoughts glow. The Signora has great advan-
tages for such a delineation. There is no unintel-
ligent fat about her. Her features are mobile,
flexible. Her figure allows the use of full and
flowing drapery. The slight foreign accent lends
piquancy to her language. Her words can be
almost seen. They are lighted up by her eyes.
They, as all language of emotion should, glow like
molten fire or glitter like stars or steel. We have
seen the Signora In several parts. In none of them
does she attain a higher level than in that of Clare
de Beaulieu.
* * * *
At 8 o’clock on Saturday night, if you wanted
to see the “ Silver King,” you’d have had to bring a
crowbar—and use it. scottl how the money rolls
mto these people! And how generous they are
with it too I The play is emotional, but good of its
class. Drunkenness, murder, a railway smash, a
mcky digger, a faithful wife, burglars, area
sneaks, publicans and policemen are appropriately
represented. The piece has been so often described
mat the plot and characters are as well known in
Sydney as John Lucas. Titheradge is Wilfred
uenverasof old, and his various entrano.s and
exits were signals for every man in the house with
» walking-stick to bring it down on the floor with
as much emphasis as he could. As a drunkard and
Player of “seven up,” he is a lamentable failure,
as a miner he is a gratifying success. This does
P ot refer to his acting, but to his career. And it is
ffij# the opposite of hundreds we've known on the
diggings.” These could never hit upon a lump
or sandstone, let alone a quartz reef, but when it
to wif t0 wbi8ky and “ cut-throat,” they'd scoop the
♦ * ♦
, as you remember, fancied he
*V le d a . man - wnen It was really somebody else
who dealt, what the Nooze calls, “ the foul blow.”
yS escapes, goes to Mexico, and “strikes it rich.”
® anew a man to go to Mexico from our place
® e ’ too > struck It rich. But as ’twas on
another person’s claim, and as our acquaintance
imf.v ne xt morning hanging from a branch
huL teet *?teh, his good fortune didn’t seem to do
* 00d - Denver was luckier—got away
the swag—iand, just as anyone would do, re-
iurned to England to look up his wife. He’d left
«r in affluence, with venison on the side-board,
oha * 0U[ ? d her in lodgings, eating herrings and
no~-P enmg tripe. All ends well. He finds out the
viiio° n wa ° really committed the murder. The
dn»n D . meet8 with his deserts, and Denver settles
wn to raise a family and rig a “corner” in silver.
9 * • '
offi? 1011 ® t'* 16 subordinate characters, those
titfte,? o n v? ri °?* 8t0re dealer (Redwood) and the fas-
— the real murderer—(Fiemming)
vftif th^8rea test prominence. From his “mug,”
wrM d ., 8 P eech « It was easy to see that Red-
wtth more than a passing acquaintance
larriti? en .i Wl:10 bought old lead from young
euhu^Ko 8 ’ smashed” flash notes, and planned
WoulJ ba “^ ur « larits - He waa a Per ; on you
ulJ walk across the street to avoid, even
in broad daylight. You could see from the begin-
ning that his ending would be sad, and you are
not disappointed. The world would not be worth
living in if such people prospered. Yet we have
known but enough. Fleming is known as the
“ Spider ” amongst the “ fancy.” He is the mildest-
mannered man that ever waited on you with a
dark-lantern and a knuckle-duster. So long as
you didn't meddle with him in the pursuit of his
calling, he was the most reasonable of house-
breakers. But ’twas different when you stupidly
got it in your head that you had a better right to
the house ornaments and things than he had.
Then he became ugly, and, like the navvy, “ wen
*c bit ’e made a hole.”
• ♦ •
Annie Mayor (Denver’s wife) was loving
and lachrymose; Watt-Tanner trusting and true.
The rest (bar Jaikes) oommendably commonplace.
• * • •
Bent, Keenan, Warner, Dunbar—these
alone are enough to make the nigger business
“gee” at Hiscooks. On Saturday night people
were tumbling over each other to get in and those
inside howling for fresh air. Dunbar and his
“musetto” are great favourites, but he is falling
into flesh and will have to change his character of
Italian peasant or bandit, or whatever it Is, to
something else—an alderman, say—if he continues
putting on beef like that. No peasant,
even on a tub of maccaroni a day, could
carry as much protoplasm and mind sheep
at the same time — let I alone blow a whistle.
The sheep would laugh at-perhaps bite him. The
great strength of the “ Colonel’s” mob has always
lain in their voices. In this no other crowd has
come near them. They can tackle anything in
that line with the certainty of seeing it through.
Friday night was their anniversary. For 13 solid
months they’ve filled that house. If they’d only
get someone to write their “ operas," and supply
them with fresh songs and jokes, there’s no reason
why they shouldn’t crowd it for 13 more.
* * m m
After an absence of some months, “ Fun
on the Bristol ” was placed on the boards of the
Gaiety on Monday, to a rattling good house. There
is nothing in the piece from start to finish to
account for the popularity it has gained, unless It
be the fact that it is a medley of nonsense and
humour, without a taint of the vicious. Everyone
calls it nonsense, but it seems pretty nearly every-
one goes to see it again and. again; and, what's
more, everybody laughs at it. Sheridan himself
cuts an Intensely comic figure in the gorgeous
apparel of the Widow O’Brien, and he can sing
a good song, too, in his extraordinary fal-
setto. May Livingstone is a host in her-
self, and to her natural vivacity and insou-
ciance she adds a voice of no little sweetness and
harmony. The orchestra went all to pieces in the
“SJPf 2 f VJP® on Monday, and nearly played t he
mischief with some of the favourite’s most popular
song’s. One or two unimportant changes have
been manolnth© cast, from which the company, as
a whole, have not suffered in the least.
* * * *
The Sparks of Humour Company per-
formed brilliantly in the North on a late occasion.
Der-fpr-mano® was so good that Messrs. Pryant
and Hardy, the principals, were called for It was
a Simons. They walked after
mm to the Cooktown Police Court, and, in response
nl &. lnv,t * tlon from the Bench, laid down
x/ii} IDs. The performance had taken place on the
tI e ®dItor of the Cooktown InPePen-
DE i I Ti. , knocked the humour out of them,
and they knocked the wind out of him.
A FACT ON THE FACE OF IT.
“GREAT SCOTT I WHAT A RATTLING GOOD TIME I MUST HAVE HAD LAST NIOHTI”


PEPPER AND SALT.
If anybody doubted the theological quali-
fications of the conductors of the morning and
evening newspapers in Hunter-street, Sydney, the
doubter could be crushed to pulp by the leading
article in the Echo of the 3rd instant. The writer
rises to the empyrean, gets as near the gate of
Paradise as he can, ridges his throat, as Mr. Holds-
worth would say, with all the sacred knowledge
that had been pumped into him, and, like Shel
ley’s skylark, opens his bill and warbles:—" In the
Uth year of the reign of King Hezeklah, Senna-
cherib, a warlike monarch of Syria, conquered the
fortified cities of Judah. He then sent to
Jerusalem a powerful commander with a great
army. This distinguished officer, w® are told,
stood by the conduit of the upper pool
and blasphemed. His name was Babshakeb.’,
His wings, like those of the mythological aeronaut,
began to feel feeble after this strenth, and lowering
himself with gingerly care, he piped again:—
“Jerusalem was delivered by an interposition,
Which Byron has described In Immortal verse—
* The angel of death spread his wings on the blast*
And breath’d in the face of the foe as he pass’d,
And the eyes of the sleepers wax’d deadly and
chill.
And their hearts but once heav’d and for ever
grew still I *
The army,;which at sunset was * like leaves of the
forest when summer is green,’ rc.. aented on the
morrow so many dead autumns.” Here the ridge
had disappeared from his throat, the theological
lore was all pumped off, the wings gave way, and
Into a Chinaman’s garden he went, head down:—
“ It Is not known how large a quantity of foul
matter has b:en deposited in the Chinamen’s gar-
dens, in the vicinity of Veteran’s Swamp.” Ho
stays there all the rest of the time, gurgling about
foul matter, city closets, filth, nastiness, and pollu-
tion. Anyone who will say It is no advantage to a
newspaper man to have received a theological
training, after that, should be made read the Echo
regularly. * * *
We have noticed that the pious lesson-
books for children are sad stuff. The beet we
know is “Line upon Line,” and that, in the eager-
ness of the author to be winning, fails In a mea-
sure to grasp the Infantine understanding. We
are desirous, on our side, to Instruct the young in
that which is good, beautiful, and true, and, there-
fore, we feel constrained to try our hand at a little
Biblical lesson for the young. We will entitle the
first of the series—
Samson,
Samson, dear little ones, was the son of Manoab.
He did not learn this until some time after his
birth. But he bore up. Samson was noted for
two things:—(1st) For his strength, and (2nd) for
the difficulty he had In keeping his hair on. One
day Samson went to war and slew 5000 of his
enemies with the jawbone of an asa. He
could have had other weapons, but he pre-
ferred the Jaw-bone. There was a rumour ln>
those days, too, that Samson took the jaw-bone
without the ass’s permission. This would be very
wrong, if true, and would shock the little boy at
Manly very much. Samson married Delilah.
Directly they were married she cut off all his hair.
When scolded by Samson she cried, and said at
home she had always been used to a pillow. To
console her, Samson went out and slew a lion. He
took from the lion’s inside a swarm of bees,
and brought the honey home, and both did
eat thereof. In those days bees built their
nests in the insides of lions. We don’t know
why. Or how. But they did. Srmson sub-
subsequently took a dislike to a bouse in Gaza and
pulled it down. The house was full of people—and
bricks. All the people and bricks fell on Samson.
And he died. Intestate. He had nothing to leave
but his hair, and that had been cut off. So that,
dear little boys and girls, is all you (or anyone)
need know about Samson. You are not obliged to
call him Mister Samson. There were no misters
in those days. We don’t know why.
* m m
Mr. John Shapman, of Waratab, has
proved himself no philosopher. He summoned
bis wife for having threatened to blow out his
brains, and he had had knives and crockery thrown
at him without number. In short, he had taken
away the children, and retreated in the form of a
very hollow square indeed. We agree with the
Bench in advising John to make it up. Bless you.
John, you don't know anything. Say you have
come home at nine, and as you look through the*
keyhole, and your breath wafts in in rather'
Jamaican gales, pull yourself together and walk in
like a man. If it Is plate night, make one dive under
the bed and jam close up against the farther side,
and open negotiations. A woman is not much of
a thrower any where, and can have little chance J
for a good swinging shy at you underneath. And
the broom handle cannot reach for a good swing-
Ing dig at the ribs. Now, cling to the leg of the*
bed, and keep It firm against the wall, and look
to your defences overhead to tee that you can’t
be reached by a toasting-fork. If you can haul &
bolster in with you, plank It firmly on the side'
nearest the enemy. It will receive
we find, like a sick Arab from a Contingent
bayonet, and with as little injury. Having
foiled one or two flank attacks from bHt
pokers and flat-irons, stick manfully to youf
zareba until the whole of the household portables
have been whizzed with warlike clamour at youf
indomitable legs, and the enemy has retreated W
the opposite sofa to take breath, and to cfuefiilbfl
the nations at large and the next-door people
listening outside whether there was ever a wonlsu*
so ill-used in this mortal world, and whfr did shb*
ever marry, and how Could she expect jtnjtblnif
else from a man whose father was transported fbf
piracy, and whose unele Jim was hanged forshefetf-
steallng. At this stage quietly pass out the kettle?
and say nothing. Then gently hand oat the plate*,
cups and saucers and other shattered stands of
arms. Nexbpass out the end of a bolster, and f£
A Chapter on Bores.


Whilst our boys are tossing on the tum-
bling billows of the Indian Ocean, getting off
General Graham's opinion by heart that they are
the picked soldiers of the earth, and eating pre-
served sheep-tongues with a patriotic glow, our
own forces are not left without the cheering words
of an old veteran. We dwell on this with exceed-
ing great pleasure, because we know from history
the military fire that can be aroused amongst the
soldiery from a kindly word of a great general.
Bonaparte rides down the lines and utters a few
words of praise and confidence, and Vive Vempereur
rings from a thousand throats ready for the
sabre-cut of the enemy. Or Washington or
Wellington speaks to a regiment, and every man
springs forward ready to face hell Itself. But all
these fade before the swelling bosoms of the Bur-
rawang contingent, who, we read, were “Inspected
by Sergeant Smith last week, and complimented
on their soldier-like appearance." With Burra-
wang worked up to this pitch, we fear no foe, and
just as that great and philosophic ruler pictured a
country as his ideal of happiness, when every
peasant has a fowl in the pot,.so we look forward
with clear prophetic vision to the happy day when
every adult mala shall have a pure-bred Soudan
goat browsing in his neighbour's front garden.
It is not smashed with a block of wood under the
Impression It is your head, venture slowly forth.
Bear yourself to your full stature. Haul out of
your pocket a packet pf ten-button gloves and
lace-edged pockethandkerchiefs and lay them on
the table and say, “Madam, conscious as I am of
.your unswerving attachment as a wifp, your tender
solicitude as a mother, and your excellence
In every department of domestic life, I
could not permit this Saturday night to pass
Over without presenting you with some slight
memento of a friendship begun in childhood,
ripened into love in youth, and consecrated in
matrimony In manhood. For the nonce I omit
*11 reference to those passing breezes which only
render conciliation more precious. Accept then,
this slight recognition of your manifold perfec-
tions, and root me outaomething to eat, by thunder,
as fast as you can.” “ La, John, what dear little
gloves—what did you give for the lace handker-
chiefs? Shall I give you a broiled steak, dear ?’
That’s the way, dear John.
“A 1 denial has been given to the state-
ment that Mr. J. E. Millais’s picture. ‘ The Ruling
Passion,” has been purchased for the National Art
Gallery, Sydney.”
Thomas Evans’ conscience must be an un-
comfortable and Inconvenient article of furniture,
take It altogether. In 1868 some horses were
stolen from Aibury and Howlong, and Thomas, we
regret to find, was “in It.” After seventeen years
of consideration over his youthful indiscretion,
Tem has “knocked under” to his conscience and
placed himself in charge of the Aibury police. He
says his mind has been so troubled ever since he
sold them ’oases, that he was at last irresistibly
Impelled to confess. While giving all due praise
to this very proper behaviour we can’t help think-
ing that if we all possessed such good memories as
Tom there would be big levees at the Sydney lock-
ups on penitent days—Mondays for choice. For
Instance, if we took old times to heart in that
tnanner, we might report ourselves to the In-
spector every morning for a year, and then
Wouldn't be half through with our wickedness.
Ho matter—instead of incriminating ourselves
filrthet. We will merely sing about Thomas:—
We have come across another copy of the
Sydney War Crt, from which we learn that at a
meeting outside the “ Central ” the other day,
"Capt. Miller did a glory Skip;” and “The Ex-
Showman and wife (redeemed through the,
ko.l,” “whabked the devil,” at Braidwood.
“The Hallelujah Barber” announces that the un-
sbaved smashed the big drum at Balmain; while
“ Bill Jr tbe bone-player” Is spoken of as having
fiadea “ stir ” at South Grafton (whatever that may
liman); and we learn, furthermore, from Captain
LoVhlook (“ marching on for war ”) that “ a (Bath-
urst) sister says she gets greater blessings in the
open air and marches than anywhere else. That
accounts for her being every night at her post.’’
The Captain, we believe we before stated, is the
“masher” of the Barmy I From Crookweli,
4 Black Diamond ” writes that at a holiness meet-
ing “Salvation was running out of the sisters*
eyes I” and, from Paddington, Captain Canty cries,
* If the Lord Is with us, who can be against us ?” —
forgetting, apparently, that a Sunday or two ago
the Devil pushed his cornet half down his throat,
and the oboe had to take refuge from popular
fury in a hen-house. In the number before us there
is an affecting anecdote. Here it is, in all Its
beautiful simplicity : —“ No malice. —A woman
lived beside a neighbour for eight years without
speaking to him; but on being released from sin,
she felt enmity depart from her, and Immediately
vent to him, grasped him by the hand, saying, ‘I
have given God my heart; will you speak to me
now?’” He spoke to her, when with a heavenly
light streaming out of her eyes she said: “ Then
give us the loan of your box-iron. Hallelujah! ’’
We might possibly have added a little bit on to
this, in our enthusiasm, but there is not encugh
of our “ copy ’’ mixed up in the item to spoil it.
* * *
“Austral,” in the Sydney Presbyterian:
“ Darling little Constance I
With her winning little ways,
With her merry laughter,
And her pretty plays.”—LI I]
• • • • • t •
“ May her future sparkle
Bright with deeds of love,
And a life of beauty
Lead to Heaven above.”
We can’t stand this at any price. The—But
the mandolin, Marier. Bang!
There Is only one man living who can
frighten God. And that man is Joe Symes, of
Melbourne. You doubt this ? Read and believe.
At a Sunday evening lecture, delivered in the
Hall of Science a week or two ago, Joe invited
the gods of India, Egypt, Scandinavia, and the
Solomon Islands to appear and disprove his state-
ment that they never existed. But as he himself
remarked, with a malign humour peculiarly his
own, they were all “ either too distant, too deaf,
too dead, too drunk, or too careless to make any
reply.” Then the Jocular Joe called upon each
person of the Trinity separately—pausing drama-
tically after each summons. There was no reply.
Then he challenged “ Judge Williams’s God” to
oome out till he (Joe) would (presumably) wipe
the platform with Him. Pusillanimous silence.
“ See,” said the triumphant Symes, “ if God re-
fuses to speak now, he never spoke at any former
period. If God refused to speak here, he never
spoke upon Sinai. If God refuses to speak to me,
he never spoke to Moses or Elijah, for" (we quote
word for word the whole astounding sentence)
I am a far better man morally than any
of them ; I am civilised, too, and they never
were.” It must have been a grotesque sight
to see this human hobgoblin — this “forked
radish with a head fantastically carved ” |
challenging his Creator to come out and show
Himself, if He dared. And the Eternal God re-
fused to step out on the platform and Justify His
existence to Joel This made a great impression
on the audience. Joe did not fail to improve upon
It by hinting that It was Just as well for Him that
He didn’t. None of the gods turned up. Joe
affected to be surprised at this. Yet in reality he
was not—he knew in his heart that even the Dirt
God of the Digger Indians would not be seen
speaking to him in public. One of these days Joe
will be challenging the whole Pantheon, and a
simple policeman will step up on the platform and
walk him off by the ear. Yet we readily admit
that Joels more civilized than Moses or Elijah
was. They never had the sense to charge
for admission to their lectures. And as to his
being a better man morally, perhaps he is not
much worse, for in all other respects but money,
he is but a,motherless calf of a man, and no more
responsible for his actions than a village idiot.
BRIEF MENTION.
A Melbourne young woman, named Hart,
is in custody for abandoning one infant, and
murdering two. Terrible fellows, these milkmen I
An inmate of the Pauper’s Paradise at
Parramatta recently died at the age of 100 years,
till the^ast* the faoultyof Rambling at his rations
y°ung Holdsworth a good show,”
S™ a suburban editor to hisoritio-ooiieotor; “he's
ha?t°a mrown*” have yet who doe 9 not ow * me
Coogee—Darlington Jack. Hava
’ WrRe to old address. Send your present
a? pla l aaU *”~8-M. Herald. Hang
severedays r ? lnSrt ° n Jack ’ can ’t the girl wait a short
.A f®ll°w recently gave himself up at
Aibury for stealing horses 14 years ago. But he
■was crushed next day. The Bench remanded him
op “is own security I He only got two free feeds out
ot his desperate confession 1
The 8. m. Herald, in burking its report of
at the Sydney School of Arts,
al Ju d ®f, to The BUlLeTin as “ a certain news-
*^?* a ?" HB uUlLetin is a certain news-
paper. a deal more certain than the Herald.
is A enied that Millais’ picture, “ The
pU~~ng Passion,” has been purchased for Sydney
Public Library. The alleged reason is that a lot oif
'' ru8 *' 6 .? 8 thought that a painting with such a
name must contain a satire on the vice of avarice.
. “ Wonderful how Shakespeare seemed to
o j* 18 remarked a gentleman to
Ah, yes,” was the reply; “ we can’t
8ff ord to do it In these days. Think of the price of
beef then—31bs. of rump steak for 3 groats. No
wonderl”
Since it has been told that a horse was
fold recently in Gladstone for 3s., the minds of
the Soup Kitchen hdbituis have been tinged with
pensiveness. They say (incited by their own
chairman) that they don’t want any horse d'oeuvres
added to their menoo.
“ Wealth,” sententlously remarks the
Sydney Presbyterian, “Is like a bird; it hops all
day from man to man, as that doth from tree to
tree, and none can say where it will roost at night.”
Yea, and verily the man is not born who can say
whether it will roost on the plate Sundays.
The Evening News announces that “Aid.
Chubb has an abscess on his eye, and was there-
fore unable to take his seat at the Council on Mon-
day.” How could an abscess over bis eye prevent
the worthy alderman from taking his seat at the
Council 7 Now, if—[Too diffuse —Ed. B.]
We see that Sir Patrick Jennings has been
appointed an additional trustee ot Sydney Art Gal-
ifry- A few more honours, and he’ll bustl And
if he did bust there would be a chance of a decor-
ation for nearly everybody, sir Pat, our readers
will remember, Is one of the Knights of St.
Gregory’s Powders. We forget what it cost him.
“ The King of Saxony has offered to the
British Government the gem of his gallery,
Raphael’s Madonna, for £160.000.” See what it is to
be pressed by the groverman 1 We were just that
way ourselves when we parted with our Maria.
We parted with our Sophia for nothing. This was
said in the Court gallery. Decree, nisi, with costs.
It seems that the deaf mutes in the Sydney
Asylum prefer to marry each other to the exclu-
sion of outsiders. This will be bad news to a hen-
pecked Darling Point man, who only the other day
bought a little tomahawk—having previously
scored down on his blotting-pad the address of
our asylum for the Deaf and Dumb and the
Blind!
“ Practical Miner,” in the Echo, says he
knows a man that has a plan for supplying
Sydney with water for £35,000. He adds, “I think
this proposal ought to have a fair test.” Certainly.
There are Just 63 other men who have their water-
supply fads. Let all their plans have a fair test.
It will only cost about 30 millions, but then 63 men
will be pleased.
She had just arrived from the “ oilld sod,”
and, on_ coming ashore, she engaged a hansom, and
asked the cabman to drive her to —. The driver
hurriedly took the cover off his horse, then turned
to show the fair damsel to her seat, but failed to
see hen and had almost given her up, when she
called from his (the driver’s) seat, “ Shure and it’s
here that 1 am. Why don’t you get in, and drive
on ? ”
Sir Henry Parkes has announced Fauloon-
bridge for sale, with all its historic associations.
We should like to have that frying-pan that was
so carefully hidden away on the morning the
Princes visited the demesne, lest the party should,
from force of habit, Insist upon frying beef sau-
sages for the Royal guests, and regaling their
Royal Highnesses with a gravy that was truly the
party’s own.
The Irish and Australian World, which,
purposes to “enlighten the public mind,” has a
par. from Pilltga, which we now abridge:—“Our
local saddler absents himself from Saturday
till Monday. . . . It is rumoured that at tho
time of his departure there is a fluttering in one
of the dove cots not far from here.” Why, this
wouldn’t even enlighten the mind of a goat—and
evidently hasn’t.
Tbe Burrowa Times has invented a new
substantive: “ his plgshlp.” This flight may have
possibly been suggested by “his snakesbip,” or
have originated solely in the brain of the editor.
We are told that the gentleman in question, how-
ever, does lay claim to certain inventive power in
English etymology. All that troubles him, at pre-
sent, though, seems to be that he cannot Invent a
dinner off the joint.
From an apparently jocular contem-
porary :—“ Matrimony.—Gentleman in good
position, 40, splendid address, desires make ac-
quaintance with lady, widow or single, 35 to 30,
accomplished and homely, with view to above,
App.,” &o. Whist? Is there anyone about? No,
Then, girls, take our little “griffin.” Don’t go.
This only means “ Lady Help,” with the ring “In
metal that will wear equal to gold.”
Says the Holy Zachary despondently- '
alluding to Post-office irregularities:—“A letter
from Maitland to this office has not reached its
destination.” Awkward this; on Saturday, tool
But we suppose that enough silver was raked
together, somehow, to “bailhst the plates” with
ou Sunday. A good “ballaster” will weekly
shame 17 families into giving four times the money
they intended, Just by a Judicious arrangement of
tbe coins.
“ There are,” says a recent par., “228 boys
on board the training and reformatory ship
Vernon, and in this number are included
a very heterogeneous admixture, Indeed. China,
France, Germany, Italy, the various Australasian
colonies, and the mother country are represented
amongst the ship’s company.” Sir, we are a
travelled people! But still it is about time some
of the parents of the boys were thinking of getting
them into the Church I
From the Sydney Echo: “A good deal of
patience and forbearance has to be exercised in
listening to the sermons of numerous estimable
men, whose only fault is that they oaunot preach,
and are never likely to be able to do so." Quite
so ; and we would remark that a good deal of i
patience and forbearance has to be exercised in
wading through the twaddle produced by men
who cannot write and will never learn as long
as evening newspapers last.
At Petty’s table d'hote the other day, in
Sydney, an intelligent foreigner, who had visited
the hotel some two years before, fixed his eyes on
a representative citizen, and appeared to lose him-
self in thought. “ Well?” asked the citizen. “I
vas tinking,” replied the foreigner, dreamily,
“whether you vas the distinguished Australian r
bad the honour to meet here two years ago ” At
this stage the citizen carried his right hand to his
mouth: “ Hal ” cried the delighted foreigner, “ let
us drink vines together. You is he. I know it by
reason dat you still eats vit your knife. Lstui
drink vines together! ”
Well, first they say the picture’s bought, 1
(For goodness knows what gold),
Then, quick as thought, the news is brought,
That we, alone, were sold.
This precious painting by Millais
Has proved, there’s no denying.
That, be its subject what it may,
Our Ruling Passion's— lying.
Ohl ye, whose hearts are soft and kind.
Will surely drop some tears
When thinking of his frame of mind,
Those seventeen long years;
And if poor Thomas suffered thus
Through weight of his remorses,
This little thought occurs to us—
Why, what about the horses ?
They must have suffered, knowing all
The measure of deceit
Which landed them in alien stall
An alien’s corn to eat.
But they are dead, ’tis all the same— _
Across the Styx they’ve ferried,
From Aibury and Howlong they came.
Howlong are they all buried ?
Blow your “ little Constance I ”
That! for your report!
P’haps your “ little Constance ”
Has a little wart.
We believe your Constance
(This’ll tell you I then I)
Has a little wart, and
Has a little wen!
Well, you know your Constance
(Wc should think her plain)
Loves to play at tip-cat
In the open drain!
“ With her marry laughter ”
(Darling little bud I),
See her ’neath the culvert
Scooping up the mud!
Let your " little Constance,”
In the top-club ranked,
Spin upon our doorstep.
And she will be spanked I
Thus, of little Constance,
“Winning,” “ merry,” arch,
We have, we are hoping.
Taken out the starch.
EXPLANATORY.
1st.-CLUB LOAFER: “HULLO; OLD M’HUNKUS HAS TAKEN TO GOGGLES.”
2nd. DITTO. : “YES; HAD TO; NOSE WAS SO RED THATJ IT DAZZLED HIS EYES I”
JUST AS WELL.
“It is reported that William Beach is to
contest the Iliawarra electorate.”
Bill Beach for ever—whoop I hurrah I
To put him In, It would be meet 1
How many members near and far
Are perfectfln the gliding- seat ?
Why say Bill’s dumb by Nature’s freak ?
The truth, as all know well, is this:
Full many when they strive to speak
Talk far worse gibberish than his!
Well, let In this aquatic lad;
For it would be a wholesome rule
To seat one who’s, perchance, not bad—
Discard a knave to choose a fool.
QUITE HARMLESS!
“At the last meeting of the subscribers
of the Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts, Mr. E.
Lewis Scott moved—‘That The Bulletin be
excluded from the library.’ ”
No dog-star rages—oh, dear nol
Pray don’t you think we mean so I
Of bile no sudden overflow—
This pigmy’s always been so.
A little twist, sirs, possibly,
Just where the brain-sponge ought to be.
The mannikin, with hauteur, tells
The world be does despise us;
And starts the whoops and senseless yells
That only advertise us 1
We hope next time, though, ’twill arrive,
The “ party ” will be quite alive 1
Though there’s no method in this “ rot ”
(The feet above are " hoppy ”),
We still can tolerate poor Scott,
But cannot stand his copy I
That’s where the shoe (some sixteen inches
Of poor neglected Lewis pinches.
He writes, does this fantastic elf,
And oft he’s us bombarded
With pars, about his Uttle self,
With Jam all interlarded I
We gave one to the dog, one day,
He licked his lips—and passed away I
No harm in him; don’t be afraid,
He’ll bite not, this small thing, sirs?
To dance, too, Lewis can be made,
Whoever pulls the string, sirs.
But here he is-there—Just oome in;
How are you, Lewis, eh I Chin-chin I


Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Henri Kowulski writes us from Ceylon
that he will return to Australia about the begin'
nlng of August.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
stimulant in the world Invaluable for the liver
and kidneys.
Neat butnolQody—Jos Symes.
How to spell “ Our Own Correspondent ”
In four letters—Liar.
When we read of “The Liberator Sup-
per,” we somehow thought of Judas Iscariot.
The Melbourne Herald admits in a lead-
ing article that its “ failings are rubicund.”
Naturally. Rum usually is.
The Armidale Chronicle, thinking that
the Contingent are specialists in the business, want
them sent to Armidale to bury the dead goats
which now decorate the streets.
The Soudan correspondent of the Sydney
D T. tells of a donkey braying beneath his window.
He, however, reserves, probably until his arrival,
the details of the conversation.
The Mudgee Independent, through a cor-
respondent, accuses the police of, themselves,
shooting old Stewart, the storekeeper. Bosh!
What for ? He didn’t want any of the reward.
We don’t see why the authorities should
S revent the condemned stabber Johns from gat-
ing married to his alleged enchantress if he likes
A man who has but a few days to live can afford
to take any kind of risk.
“Cooma,” says the local Express, “is pos-
sessed of four distinct grades of society.” It is
needless to state that the editor of that brilliant
Journal has long been the reigning ornament of
No 8 grade-the goat-grade.
At Cassilis. in one week, according to the
Maitland Mercury, the R.C. Bishop and Ashton’s
circus have arrived and a woman has given birth
to triplets. Already are the benefits of the Dal-
leyian Administration visible. What more does
Cassilis want ?
Mr. P. B. Walker, of the Sydney Telegraph
Department, has invented a new torpedo. It
would not be a bad thing if he could invent a new
telegraph clerk. One who could keep his mouth
shut. These are wanted in the country districts
more than torpedoes.
Pastor Daniel Allan has had his annual
tea-meeting. It was an enormous success. As
the caterer gazed upon Daniel immediately the
struggle was concluded, he drew a long breath,
and said—“ Well, if it’s a loss one way, it’s a gain
the other. In experience."
The Salvation Army held an inquest on
the Davil the other day at Saowtown, S.A. At the
clbse of the proceedings there was a free fight, one
warrior having accused another of having told
“a jolly lot of lies.” So that even if the Devil is
dead, an efficient successor has been found.
E. Lewis Scott, Esq., author of “Sunny
New South Wales ” and other poems, could not
find a seconder for his motion to exclude The
Bulletin from the School of Arts reading room.
Now. had the moti-m been to expel the eminent
litterateur from the School of Arts, it would have
been —[Treated in exactly the same way,—Bd. B,J
Shrieks the Sydney D.D:—“ For the first
time in our life we are ashamed of Sir John
Robertson.” Sir John replies:—
“ Ashamed of me,” you mongrel crew,
“ Wish we had sooner parted I ”
Why’d—you, 1 was ’shamed of you
From the first day you started.
The Tenterfteld Star considers that the
lord of Tabulam, who is about to raise a squadron
of 40 horse, “is well adapted to the command of
the troop, by reason of his name, Chauvel. We
think soi too. They will probably be kept more
out of mischief when commanded by a shovel.
The martial eagerness of Chauvel. anyhow, cannot
otherwise be regarded than as a sign of the tongs.
Fishing for eels in a water-dam at Annao-
dale, a few days ago, an Industrious youth was
more surprised than pleased to find he had hauled
up the dead body of an Infant. Speaking of this,
the Noozb says: “The fact that half a brick was
attached, did not prevent the corpse from float-
ing." This should be a warning to future baby-
negotiators to fasten on a News leading article
instead. One of these would sink a life-boat.
Some very lively discords were introduced
Into the “lolanthe” music In the Melbourne
Theatre Royal the other day. The cornet told the
trombone it was out of tune. Trombone advised
the oornet to concentrate its attention cn l f s own
affairs Thereupon, the cornet felled the tmra-
pofxe in the middip of the mazy measure. Tnis
little bravura cost the ooraet £3 in the District
Court. It was a dear blow. The moral of this is
that wind-instruments should never quarrel.
Scene :- Country Telegraph Office. Time:
Lunch hour. Popular Young Produce Merchant
strolls in. P.Y.P.M.: “ Hallo I where’s the boss?”
Well-connected Young Telegraph Clerk: “ Oh, un-
stairs French-polishing the sideboard.” P.Y.P M.:
“Any news ?“ W.cTY.T.C. (yawning): " Not a
bit.” P.Y.P.M.: " Oh, hang it I I must have some
excitement—let’s have a look at the telegrams.”
(Has a look at the telegrams; then lounges out to
diffuse the exciting items amongst bis acquaint-
ance.) _
The Sydney D.T. man had a long inter-
view with Lord Wolseley. and drew him out. “ In
the ne'ghbourhood of Sydney, Melbourne, and
Adelaide, the men possessing Horses willing to vol-
unteer must be very numerous.” This is what
Wolseley said. He didn’t exolain how the wishes
of the horses on the subject of volunteering could
be obtained. A bit and curb would probably
induce the most cantankerous racer to volunteer
for service in the Soudan—or on an ice-floe for
the matter of that.
We suppose the Mayor of Sydney’s prize
“ for the most valorous deed done by any member
of the N.8.W. Contingent in'the Soudan ” must
now be considered “ off.” If the expense attached
to such a contest were not In a manner prohibi-
tive, his Worship might give it to the ordinary
private who could get the fullest on burgoo. Of
course (which is highly prbpable) if Blbby, the
champion porridge-eater, of Newcastle, is amongst
the Contingent, our suggestion would be to a large
extent impracticable.
At Castlemaine they have got up a sensa-
tion—a bullock with a shilling, and that dated
1820, in his stomach. The local Mail Innocently re-
marks that he must have carried it around for two
years, as it was beginning to give way. We have
heard of ducks and fowls making gold and
silver-mines of themselves, bat until the present
they have monopolised the business. " Now, how-
ever, when we are near a bullock we will not fear
his harming us as much as his annexing our watch.
These be parlous times.
One of the best comments upon the con-
duct of the Soudanese campaign was that of an
English Journal, which we received some consider-
able time ago, and overlooked till now. We
quote:—“Recent dispatches from the seat of war
in the Soudan have aroused a suspicion in the
minds of some cynical observers that General
Wolseley is being paid by the day.” Candour
compels us to admit that we ourselves could hardly
have put the case more pointedly.
Bishop Barry’s book, “ First Words in
Australia,” has reached home. Vanity Fair
thinks the utterances “ sober.” W e should think
they are sober; not alone sober themselves, but
capable of making any man who reads them re-
solve to sober up at once. But the London paper
thinks also that they “ sometimes descend towards
the region of platitude.” Now, that is where
Vanity Fair is out. They don t descend to the
region of platitude; they come up from there.
Vanity Fair sometimes stands on its head.
A Maryborough (Q.)' schoolmaster has,
after a dozen years’ labour, perfected a scheme
whereby, with 50 per cent, less powder, he engages
to send a ball three or four times the distance at
present accomplished. He is a patriot, and has
offered the invention to his own Government for
a modest consideration. Tfie blind parties in
power, however, will not “ bleed.” He thereupon
threatens to sell it to the Russians. Then there
will be bleeding. Cannot somebody with cash step
in “ in this darkest hour of the nation’s need ?”
This is a cable from the Narrabri World :
“It is report id that the Contingent will go to
England, to their curtail ( sic) orders.”—
The poor subscriber loudly yells,
“This is too bad by half}
The editor must have engaged
The bunyip on the staff
He little, in his modest growl.
Does realise, this elf,
The bunyip that be mentions is
The editor himself.
The Bourke Watchman, referring to the
editorial performance on a botile of beer sent to
the office as a simple, s.ye, with grim emphasis,
“Oar readers will understand a good deal when we
say it Is a poor look-out for a bottle of that brew
when we tackle it.” Ay, Indeed, and the look-out
would have been little better for the bottle if it
bad been as great in girth as John Lucas,And had
stood as high as Mudgee Taylor. What hollow
vessel blown in any glass factory on the surface of
the globe could hope, when filled with liquor, to
stand against a wild Bourke editor, with his Ophln-
ohus throat ? And they sent him—as though he
were a fl y—a bottle I They should have sent film a
brewery.
Extract from a private communication
from Lord Carlngtou :—“ . . . Kindly Inform
your Mayor that on my arrival I would prefer to
take the city address as read.” Extract from the
diary of Prince George;—” ... It was all
jolly enough, but that beastly address. 'That
seemed like an undertaker reading his bill.’ But
what Is the Council to do ? He is a fixture. And
it would take 30 knife-boards and a ton of emery-
powder to—. Anyhow our conscience is clear.
We have laid bare the situation. There’s courage
here! And therq’ll be some in the bottlq, ,too,
directly the girl returns with the proceeds of the
infant’s ulster from the local Rothschild, - three
streets off.
An elderly evangelistic lady, with a small
reticule filled with tracts, met a simple Irish-
woman in one of the streets of Surry Hills last
week. “ My dear, good friend,” she said, sweetly,
“lam in search of the lost sheep.” The Irish-
woman looked up and down, and replied, “ Faith,
ma’am, an’ is it lost It is ? Ye’ll have to be purty
quick on yer pins, or ye’li be after altlng it in
chops. Them butchers is the dlvvels for laying
hoult of lost sheep.” “It Is you that Is the sheep, - '
said the lady, tenderly.” “ Gar outl ’’ said th.e Hi-
bernian ; “ ye luck a daoent woman, an’ its scan-
dalous shame for ye to Jet yerself be seen in the
street so far gone in dhrink. Go home, yp ould
harper, go home! ” •
Says a London gravely “ The
Duke of Saxe-Coburg has juSt been robbed of a
million florins by a confidential steward.” . . .
The confidential steward died before the rob-
bery (I) was discovered, and, strange to say (goes
on the paper):-“ The embezzled papers were not
the property of the Duke, but belonged to private
persons, who, according to a feudal custom, stll
comm m In the country where Princes are more
trusted than bankers, had deposited their securi-
ties in his Highness’s strong boxes.” Now, even
supposing everything, we don’t see how the Duke
could be made to suffer. For even if they brought
him up at the police court—his own police court-
why he’d be on the bench.
In Queensland an ingenuous Government,
anxious that its people should prosper, has bound
Itself to add £3 to every £1 levied as rates and raised
from the residents. This is what is called local
self-government, and is thought the extreme of
good policy. When, however, a Bulimba man
wants a piece of work done the Divisional Board
raise his rates another £10 or £30, then secure
the two to one subsidy on that, and proceeds
with the job, giving the ratepayer substantial
value for his money, and retaining a little bal-
ance for their corporate selves, but “ doing” the
national exchequer barefacedly. Oao ratepayer’s
property has risen in value from £88 to £388 under
this gentle treatment during the last few years.
The Bible and Science in their mutual
relation ” was the title of the second lecture on
Christian evidence delivered at the Protestant
Hall the other night. We believe in the fiible and
we belleye in science, but that’s no reason why
the lecturer (the ttev, Dr. Steel) should iDe this
into us :—“ To those who believe that the order of
nature is in accordance with the will of a Supreme
Being, it must be axiomatic that there can be no
real opposition between what we learn from the
study of nature and what we are taught by a
direct revelation from that Being.” This is a really
clever way of putting the generally accepted
truth, that “ if four and four make eight, no con-
fidence is to be placed in any man, however clever,
who assertes they make nine.”
It is said in Sydney that the nuns who de-
vote their lives to the education of young lady
boarders are in sore perplexity. So vicious are
the inclinations of the present age that it is re-
garded as a part of every young lady’s business to
learn how to dance. With all care the Sisters have
had that accomplishment taught. The Archbishop,
however, before leaving for Rome, ordered that
the fantastic toe was to be tied up and put in a
sling. He had read Byron on the waltz, and Suarez
on damphules, and agreed with both. The Sisters
at the North Shore are in the thick of it. Some of
their pupils, all of whom are not Roman Catholics,
say that if this captivating exercise must not be
taught where they are, they must go where it is
taught.- The lady principals of some boarding
schools in Macquarie-street are jubilant.
The cynicisms of the late Austrian Baron
Nestroh—“I believe the worst of all men, includ-
ing myself, and I am seldom deceived.” “ I can
understand why people attend a ball, but why
anybody should give a bail is something entirely
beyond my comprehension.” “ When two wolves
meet in the woods neither has the slightest doubt
as to what kind of an animal the other is; but two
men never meet in the forest without each one
suspeottLg the other of being a robber.” “There
is something irresistibly fascinating in the life of a
spy. One enjoys all the pleasures that a thief has,
and yet is regarded as an honest man.” ‘The man
who carves is either a rascal or a fool. If he keeps
the best, the choice piece for himself, he is a ras-
cal ; if he does not, be is an ass.”
Th5 Shoalhaven New.; reports that some
gigantic stagnat'd! appears to have settled down in
the region round about, whether from the town
dogs having settled their differences by a delimita-
tion conference, or from the stray goats having
deserted their old haunts and retired into the
forest to devise a suitable and hot reception for
thelr,Soudan brethren abroid Jthe Arab, has not,
as the News would put it, “ transpired.” Anyhow,
“at the Namba Council, when a resolution was
down for a mover and seconder, nobody moved
and ndbody seconded, and Alderman Smith twitted
Alderman Waddell with ‘ being lazy.’
Uprouse ye then, ye merry Numba men.
It is your opening day;
If there’s nothing in your noddle,
Still get up and give ua twaddle;
Do say something, Mr. Waddell—
Fire away.
The well-meaning gentlemen who are try-
ing to carry on the work of checking, as far as
may be, the ancient evils attendant on adultery
and seduction, .have held a meeting in Sydney,
and pledged themselves to renewed efforts In their
good work. People will differ as to the ( probable
amount of success they are likely to meet with in
a state of society where the woman who goes
wrong is ruthlessly sat upon and banished, while
the man may still sport his lordly frame in pious
dining-rooms and confess himself a miserable sin-
ner out of a «ilt-edged prayer-book on Sunday,
a'ongside ninety-nine j ust men who need no repent*
ance. And are no members of this Social Purity
Society drawing big rents from houses devoted to
Immoral purposes ? Is any of them landlord of a
house where, to quote from a last week’s police
report, the sink is “ stopped by a dead cat ? ”
Under the heading “A* deuced lot of D’s,*’
an Ashfleld correspondent, who has been “medi-
tating on a sick-bed for some weeks past,” writes
us:-It is a singular fact that almost all the words
expressive of the ills that flesh is heir to commence
with D. Here are a few samples:—
Darkness
Damp
Danger
Dastardliness
Diiatoriness
Deficiency
Disorganisation
Derision
Sesertion
epression
Depreciation
Silemmas
estruotion
Dissembling
Dissention
Dismission
Disgrace
Damage
Discord
Dullness
Dismay
Dissipation
Dissatisfaction
Displeasure
Disgust
Defeat
Draughts
Sandruff
eafness
Drought
Drouth
Drunkenness
Deception
Destitution
Desperation
Despair
Desolation
Depravity
Disheartening
Debauchery
Distress
Disease
Distemper
Deformity
Doctoring
Death
Dust
Dogmatism
Despotism
Devilment
Dallying.
Our reflected correspondent has overlooked De-
lirium. Tremens.
Episodes off the Campaign.


OF THE
fidbu nm
TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT.
Capital; £100,000, in 20,000 Shares of £5 Each,
Of the above, 19,000 Shares are being offered to the Public on the terms specified hereunder, 1000 Shares, paid up to £2 10s. each, being retained by the Proprietors as part
payment.
20s. per Share to accompany application, 20s. per Share to be paid on allotment, 5s. per Share in 3 (three) months, and 5s. per Share in 6 (six) months after allotment it being
anticipated that further calls will not be required. [See Financial suggestions appended.]
If deemed advisable to make further call, such calls not to exceed 2s. per Share per month.
As soon as 10,000 Shares shall have been subscribed for, it shall be at the option of the Provisional Directors to c’ose the list and register the Company, retaining the balance of
the Shares for future issue, the original Shareholders to have a prior claim in the allotment of such Shares, the exc. ptionally strong financial position of the Comnanv belnc a
sufficient ground for such a step. 6
Hon. G. H. Cox, Mulgoa,
W. J. Ferguson, Esq., M.L.A., Sydney.
J. Mackenzie, Esq., Young.
Provisional Directors:
Duncan M‘Rae, Esq , J.P.. Pumiccabad, Glen Innes.
C. E. Stokes, Esq. (R. Towns and Co.), Sydney.
Alderman P. M‘MAHON> Esq., J.P., Sydney.
Henry Oreswick, Esq., J.P., Melbourne.
Solicitor:
E. Broad, Esq., 50 Castlereagh-street.
j
Bankers;
The Bank of New South Wales.
Broker;
E. 0. Davies, South British Chambers, Bridge-street, Sydney.
Secretary (pro. tem.):
M W . Cttrehy Corlette, 12 Bridge-street, Sydney.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of erecting a high-class Hotel in im-
mediate connection with the great shipping interests concentrated at the Circular Quay,
to be presently further enhanced by the establishment there of the new Railway Terminus
and Tram Station.
A magnificent corner block of FREEHOLD land, with frontages of 103 feet 4 inches
to Albert-street, 90 feet to Macquarie-street, and 48 feet 8 inches to the Circular Quay has
been secured, and on this site it is proposed to erect a really First-class Hotel, containing
about 160 rooms, to be replete with every modern comfort and convenience.
This site, from its splendid position and grand outlook, cannot be surpassed in the
city.
The services of a competent Manager and Chef de Cuisine are now being arranged
for, and no pains are being spared in order to ensure sucoess.
In addition to the ordinary accommodation of a house of this class, Grill Rooms,
&o., can be established on the English system—and owing to the especially favourable
position of the Hotel in relation to the Govern ment, Lands, and Public Works Offices, the
Treasury, the principal Woolbrokers’ and Shipping Establishments, and the Passenger
Railway Station, it must inevitably command an enormous trade.
Communication by Telegraph and Telephone will be established with the General
Post Office, Exchange, &c.
The exceptionally favourable site of this block of land, close to the points of arrival
and departure of the P. and O., Orient, Messageries, A.S.N., Aberdeen, and other lines of
steamships, as well as to the Public Buildings before referred to, ensures it a continuous
increase in value.
As an INVESTMENT, therefore, it is uplifted far above the common run of bank or
other shares, or even ordinarily first-class city property. •
Private capital has been already proffered in abundance sufficient to have carried
out this scheme to a successful issue; but it has been thought better its sphere
by throwing it open to the Public.
The Building is estimated to cost £40,000, and the Furniture £8000.
In addition to these outlays there will, of course, be the usual charges, viz., broker-
age, legal expenses, stamp duty, interim interest (at bank rates) on the purchase money
advertising, &o. .
Owing to the valuable position of the land, large advances for a fixed period, and
at a low rate of interest, can be obtained, if needed, as the building progresses.
Under such circumstances it will probably be more to the advantage of the Share-
holders to borrow on such terms than to call up the remainder of their capital.—Vide
preamble.
The following Approvimafe Financial Statement, and a glance at the plan of the
site, will give a general idea of the Company’s position, and the very great present and
prospective value of the site obtained.
Approximate StateKca.en.t:
. Dr.
To calls receivable, 50s. per share, on 19,0od shares
To further requirements -
Against assets of
Uncalled capital -
Freehold -
Building -
Furniture - - -
■ £50,000
■ 24,000
40,000
8000
£122 000
£47,500
29,500
£77,000
By cost of site -------
By cost of building -
By cost of furniture -
By brokerage, architects* commission, legal expenses, stamp duty,
interest, advertising, &c. &c. - -
lift
Cr.
£24,000
40.000
8000
5000
£77,000


Melbourne Punch has invented a crest for
Sir Samuel Wilson, and gives the following par-
ticulars;—
*
'-2^'• Inn..
MS
THE AUSTRALIAN PEERAGE.
Salmon, Samuel, Duke of Ballarat, Viscount
Hoggat. This is a very old patrician family, dat-
ing back to a late period in the nineteenth century.
Remarkable for unostentatious mannners and
great benevolence.
Arms.— Sable, a chevron between three money
bags.
Crest.— Three significant letters.
Supporters. —Dexter—a millionairess in her pride
and diamonds. Sinister—A millionaire rampant,
habited sable.
Motto.— “ On the genteel.”
All persons who have tasted Wolfe’s
Schnapps unadulterated fully appreciate its
superior qualities.
Remember that a little Hop Bitters saves
big Doctor’s bills, and cures when all else falls.
Don't take unless Am. Co’s make. Read.
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(teglstered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back*
&c. A case Incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : Ail principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. Bd.*
It is admitted that no purer spirit is placed
before the publie than Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be
sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
LIVERPOOL HANDICAP, June 13,
NO V OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS. 10s. EACH.
First Horse, £250.
Also, Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan a'
Melbourne Cup.
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. O. D^ble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydne;
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Wt • MU be glad to have thU index posted up
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general, 1
RACING.
Lower Clarence J.C u 5 e ™
Victoria A.T.C
Bairnsoale R.C. (V.) " * * J
Elsternwlck (V.) " u }y j
Brewarrina J.C {“*7 «
Walgett R.C J u »• ®
Clarence River J.C J V i?
Moonee Valley (V.) u ! y
Rosehlll J?
Charters Towers J.C “f
Canterbury Park R.C • August 1
Tamworth R.C August 5,6
Rosehlll R
Townsville (Annual) August 12,13
Canterbury Park R.C ■ •. September 5
Hawkesbqry (Spring) September 10 1-
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December ~6
Rosehlll R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
M.R.C. Race for Mr. T. M. Aloopk’s prize... June 13
St. Ignatius’ College R.C. Regatta June 20
Glebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs twM
ATHLETICS.
Kelly’s International Handicap.. June 27, July 1,4,6
KirJosephaultt P Fourth 'Handicap.... AuicHtJi.
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Newcastle B.O. Race Meeting. ......• June 6
Balmain and Burwood B C. s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground... July is
NSW ’Cyclist s Union Race Meeting 'uly 2o
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
elation Ground August 22
SPORTING AND ATHLHTIC MEMS.
Athletic Carnival at Mudeee. on 9th Sep-
tember. Principal event, £100 Sheffield Handicap.
It is stated that Taiaroa, the celebrated
N.Z. half-caste quarter-back, is suffering from an
abscess on the back.
No wonder they build palaces and live
like lords; 3 to 1 about the Echo and Clarence
double on Saturday.
A. Ireland and C. Chamberlain to row
over the champion course in: light skiffs, on the
20th instant, for £35 aside.
A foot-race was run at Nyngan on Satur-
day afternoon week between J. Cox and Thomas
Kelly. 150 yards, for £2 a-sldo. Cox had five yards
start, and won by a yard.
At the Annual Regatta of the Mary-
borough and Wide Bay Rowing Clubs (Q.). the
Amateur Championship in outriggers fell to F.
W. Barrymore, of the Maryborough R.C.
Christopher, the eldest of the Bradford
brothers, of life-saving fame, died In Pittsburg, Pa..
Anrll 15- The records show that the brothers
Christopher, Edward, and Michael Bradford have
saved no less than 532 lives
Chinese gambling saloon in Little Bonrke-
street, Melbourne, raided by the police. Fourteen
Celestials run in It is well that this £amb ing
should be stopped. By the way. a bet of £20 000
to £200 wa« laid against a double, Derby and Cup, a
few days ago.
H. Gunn, O. Gunn, J. Gunn, and J. Good-
win scored a best-on-reoord at the recent Mary-
borough and Wide Bay Rowing Club Regatta,
when they won the maiden Junior and senior fours.
And then those great guns regretted they had not
entered for the champion fours.
John L. Sullivan, according to the New
York Times, Is superstitious on the subject of
white specks on his finger-nails. “ He outs them
out with his penknife, regardless of pain. We
know a lot of pugs, who aren’t superstitious on
such subjects, and never cut their nails at all.
After the fiasco on Saturday over the
Sydney Tattersall's Steeplechase, it is to be hoped
the racing people will effectually stop any such
blunders in the future, as such mistakes could
be very easily prevented by blocking up the
entrance to the straight running till the last
round.
At the next Cup meeting at Flemington
will be Introduced the novel feature of two
weight-for-age Jumping events. A hurdle race,
with 200 sovs. added, and a steeplechase, endowed
With 300 sovs. under the new conditions, will give
a obanoe to some of the “cracks,” whose public
nerf ormanoes cause them to be crushed out of han-
dicaps.
It will be found that Fred. Archer rode
the English Derby winner the week before last.
It was to steer Melton—who started a strong first
favourite—that Archer had been making prodi-
gious efforts to dispose of the extra adipose tissue
accumulated during his trip to America. As the
proverb says; “ Everything comes to him whe
wastes.”
M. W. Ford, N.Y.A.C., champion American
amateur broad-jumper, on April 23, succeeded in
his attempt to excel his own previous best amateur
record of 10ft. 7Min. at stand-forward jumping,
made by himself at St. Louis last year. The essay
was made on the grounds of the New York Club.
He was allowed the customary six attempts, and
at the third trial cleared 10ft. 9?4(n. The other five
jumps were foul.
A. Hancock, the English champion ; F.
Morshead and G. Muhleisen, local men; and John
Hayner, of Australia, competed on May 16th, at
Canterbury, New Zealand, for the 50 miles walk-
ing championship of that colony. The track was
laid at 23 laps to the mile, and Hancock gained a
lap on Raynor in the first mile (8 mins. 5secs.),
which lead he appeared content to hold till the
beginning of the fiftieth mile, when he put on
extra steam and eventually won by three laps in
8 hours 10 minutes.
Says a Yankee paper“ The vastnumbers
of jelly-fish which are to be found in the Parra-
matta River in the early part of the year prove a
source of great annoyance to shell-rowers. After
his race with Clifford. Hanlan stated that they
were very troublesome, and a few days previously
while taking an exercising pull. Beach ran under-
neath a monster ‘ blubber,’) which nearly capsized
the boat.” Our poor Parramatta course will be
“ getting Itself disliked.” As a rule, the blubber
turns up after a race.
The final heat of the Sydney Treasury
Sculling Handicap was rowed off on Thursday
last, over the championship course, Woolloomoo-
loo Bay. when Messrs. Paige (431bs.), Trouton
(421bs), and Grey (60lbs) faced the starter to do or
die for the handsome trophy presented by Mr.
P. Brennan. Trouton led for two-thirds of the
course, when Paige overhauled him, and for a
second or two the boats were locked together.
When they separated, Paige went away and won a
splendid race by a couple of lengths.
Foley’s Athletic Hall at the White Horse
Hotel, now “looks like business.” A sixteen-foot
ring has been fixed up on a slightly elevated stage,
raised seats have been fitted at each end of the
room; and the irrepressible Larry, to show his
concern for the moral welfare of his pupils and
Jierformers, has had additional gas-jets put on,
ustto—as he puts it—“lighten their darkness.
The opening show will be on June 18,19 and 20,
when competitions for light-weights and middle-
weights will eventuate for prizes in each case of
£10, and a gold medal, given by several gentlemen,
lovers of the sport.
That brawny Scot, Donald Dinnie, is out
with another wrestling challenge. Says Dinnie :—
“ I do not protend to be able to beat everyone at
all styles of wrestling, but am still prepared to
prove that I can beat all comers as a general
wrestler, and will allow any man in Australia
oboloe of four styles out of seven, and if one
■tone less weight than me they can have choice of
three from five. If weighing two stone less I will
allow them choice of four from five styles, and if
three stone less they can have choice of all the five
styles.” The seven styles fetches ’em. Don’t it,
Donald ? you sly dog.
This conies of teaching a man to thump.
It is rumoured Lees now wants to have a slap—
with the gloves, of course—at Professor Miller.
This reminds us of the lightning lighter, Jem
Belcher, and his pupil, Tom Crlbb. After a long
retirement from the magic circle, Belcher grew
jealous of the successes of his former pupil Cribb,',
and nothing would satisfy him but a meeting with
the“ Black Diamond,” a sobriquet given to Crlbb
by reason of his occupation as coalheaver. The
pair duly met—in 1809, we fancy—when Belcher, a
shadow of his former self, and minus an eye lost
in the tennis court, fell a victim to Crlbb’s prowess.
Fred. Shorter, the English billiard pro.,
who only recently arrived in Melbourne and en-
gaged the room at Scott’s Hotel, neither looks nor
plays in anything like his old form. His health, in
fact, is so Impaired that he has decided to relin-
quish billiard cares for awhile, and exchange the
cue for a “rest.” Before leaving Melbourne, a
complimentary entertainment was arranged, and a
good “ room ” assembled at Scott’s to see him take
on his old opponent, Byrnes, in a couple of games
of 500 points. In the first, with “ spot barred,” the
Englishman displayed a lot of his old skill, and won
easily. Later In the evening, when the men met
for a second time, things went quite the other way,
and the reclever of points “ romped in.” Shorter’s
strength was evidently overtaxed, and he appeared
unable to make an effort. Until Richard—or
Frederick, rather—is himself again, there is no
likelihood ot his meeting Evans for money. Mean-
tlme, all “sports" will wish him a speedy return
to ‘ form,” for Shorter Is, in every sense of the
word, a billiard-player of the best type.
Another racing scandal cropped up in
connection with the last Liverpool Grand National
Steeplechase. Zoedone, who won the event In ’83,
and was liberally supported this year, Is thought
to have received a dose before the start. The
mare was in the best of health on the previous
night, but could hardly raise a gallop when brought
on the course for the big event. Even at the trial
hurdle, she blundered hopelessly aqd neirly ter-
minated the aristocratic life of her rider and owner,
Count Klncsky. The Count re-mounted, but only
to come to grief at the very first .obstacle in the
actual race. The business is generally regarded as
“ fishy.”
B. Matthews, the young American boxer,
who recently went over from Sydney to' New
Zealand, thre v out the following “ defl.” upon his
arrival in Maorlland:—That he was open to box
any heavy weight in New Zealand (Marquis of
Queensberry rules) to a finish for from;£10 to £100;
or open to knock any man his own weight (list.
81bs.) out in four rounds, for the same amount and
the same rules as above. The challenge was duly
taken up, and we now see articles have been
signed for a glove contest, under the Marquis of
Queensberry’s rules, between Matthews and E.
Donovan, the champion of Auckland, Matthews
wagering £30 that he will knock Donovan out of
time in four rounds “ with full-sized boxing
gloves.”
Master Norman Leek, who rode the pony
All-fours to victory in the Bracelet Race. Elstern-
wick, Vic., has achieved a distinction which Is
unique in the annals of the turf, either here or in
the old country. This tiny ‘gentleman jock,”
who is the son ot Mr. J. Leek, the former.ownerof
Coulston and other good horses, only completed
his eighth year two months, and scales 3st.
Faultlessly attired in breeches, boots, and gloves,
he sat his favourite pony like a miniature Centaur,
coming up the straight with a firm hold of his
bead, with the whole field toiling hopelessly in the
rear. Master Leek will probably be handed down
to posterity by compilers of Turf Curiosities as the
youngest and lightest rider that has ever donned
silk in public.
Farnan takes his defeat by Lees very
badly, and still svers that he was hocussed; but
from the account we heard of the fight, we should
say the punishment Lees administered to him was
quite sufficient to put him on his little bed without
the aid ot a drug. Farnan desires another match,
but, up to the time of writing, we have not heard
if anything has been fixed. Lees showed such im-
provement in his boxing that it seems a pity he
should lose his head over the defeat of—at the
best—a second-class man, as he most assuredly
must have done when he stated his intention to
fight in future with small gloves only, ring rates.
Professional boxers in Australia are at present on
the best of terms with the authorities, and for the
sake of the grand old sport, it is to be hoped they
will be long-headed enough to remain so.
Says a recent N. Y. Clipper Appar-
ently frightened at the prospect of becoming in-
volved In trouble with the authorities, the party
who arranged the glove-fight between John L.
Sullivan and Paddy Ryan last week took back the
money deposit placed by him in the hands of Harry
Hill (and for which a peculiarly-worded receipt,
was given) and declared that he washed his hands
of the whole business. Upon being Informed of
this action, Sullivan is represented as saying that
while he was sorry there would be no fight, he did
hot blame the person who got up the match, and
that now he should prepare for his invasion of
England. Ryan arrived in the city from Chicago
on Thursday, 23. The lovers of square-dealing,
and opponents of chicanery in P.R. matters may
well feel satisfied over the breaking-off of an affair
which, as originally planned by the advertising
schemers, could never have been brought to an
issue on turf. Ryan expresses ; regret that the
match is at an end, especially as he has quit
Chicago for good and came East to train. He will
remain here for some time, and hopes that arrange-
ments may be made for him and aulllvan t j meet
privately for a purse, which he is willing to do at
any time,”
To an outsider the general run of athletic
club meetings are slow to a degree, but a man who
wants anything more lively than a N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union meeting must be a perfect glutton for ex-
citement. The trouble just now Is over an endea-
vour made by the few bona fide amateurs to oust
bicycle-dealers, mechanics, and quasi professionals
generally from holding office and taking part in
the management of the Union. Mud was thrown
about to an alarming extent. The President who,
by-the-way, is a dealer in wheels, was asked
for an explanation in re the changing o'
the printing account from one house to
another; and he in turn: asked the captain of
a large suburban club if he, the genial
Richard, did not turn over a pound or two now
and then In bicycle-trucking:. This sort of thing
la bad, very bad, lor the sport. Let a bicycle-
dealer be as pure as the beautiful snow, or even a
C.M.G., his every action is looked upon as an effort
to further his trade. As we stated last week, the
Surrey Club in Ecgland are making every effort
to keep amateur bicycling to amateurs pure and
simple, and it speaks very poorly for the hundreds
of amateur bicyclists in Sydney and its environs
that they cannot manage their affairs without the
aid of these quasi professionals either in the
council or on the race track.
Fine, though chilly, weather brought to-
gether a big crowd Tattersall s Grand National
Steeplechase meeting on Siturday last. Echo
started at 2 to 1 on him for the Hurdle Race, and
justified the confidence placed in him by defeating
Rocket by a couple of lengths, Pyrrhus the First
ten lengtus away, third. Masbotte defeated Fuse
by half a length for the Flying Handicap; Storm
made an easy win of the Selling Race; and then
the Grand National came on the hoard. The race
looked a “moral” for Clarence, who, with Corri-
gan up, was leading when coming the second time
for the treble; but, to the horror of his many
backers, Corrigan, instead of facing the jump
and completing the course, brought him Into
the straight, Cree following suit on Joe’s
Indian Queen, and the pair rode it out to
a finish. This left Fingal in the lead, which he
held till the run-home, when Progress showed the
most foot and defeated him easily by a couple of
lengths. Corrigan and Cree were well hooted for
their performance, and taking all things into con-
sideration, it can scarcely be said they did not de-
serve it, if only for the extraordinary blunder of
experienced jockeys thinking they had gone
three miles when they had scarcely covered a
mile and three-quarters. Corrigan, who was
called some opprobrious epithets by someone in
the crowd, charged up to the railings and slashed
with bis whip at the faco of the man who he
thought had taunted him. The day’s sport finished
up with the Contingent Stakes, won by Toln
Browti from Wallangra, Archie third.
A good deal of interest was centred in the
Gardiner Cup football match at Burwood on
Saturday last, when fairly representative teams of
locals and Hedferns put In an appearance. Bur-
wood won the toss, Redfern kicking off, and the
game was pretty evenly contested just before half-
time, when Redfern, by good play, obtained a try,
from which they failed to score. Score at half-
time: Redfern 2, Burwood nil. On resuming, Bur-
wood, by some very good rurs and well-timed
pasting, forced back, the bail being passed to
Walker, who touched-down to avoid defeat. Bur
wood, however, wore not to be denied, as C. Rob
herds, by an excellent run, one of the many he
made during the afternoon, succeeded in passing
the whole of the Redfern team, and obtained, in
our opinion, and that of several well-known foot-
ballers on the ground, a fair try. So far as we could
see, Robberds was crossing the goal-line when he
was tackled from behind by a Redfern player, and
immediately fell on the ball, thus touching it
down. The Redfern player pulled him right over
the ball, when it rolled between his legs, and
Stubbin, of the Redferns, obtaining possession,
again touched it down. The umpire on whose side
of the ground Robberds’ try was obtained gave it
a fair try for Burwood, the other umpire gave it
to Redfern, and the referee could not give a deci-
sion as he did not see the play. Burwood took the
try under protest, when P. Chapman kicked a
goal. At the termination of the play, the game
stood—Burwood, 5 (under protest); Redfern, 2.
The dispute will probably be brought before the
Union.
"THE N.S.W. COLONIAL SECRETARY HAS RECEIVED THE FOLLOWING TELEGRAM
FROM SIR SAUL SAMUEL:—‘ HAVE BEEN DOING MY BEST TO SECURE SINGLE WOMEN,
LAND NEXT SHIP WILL TAKE ABOUT 200.’ ”
“White Mary.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
White Mary I White Mary I” they call her, and
calling the nickname, they seem to
Have attained to a form of reproach that brings
shame to her face.
“White Mary I White Mary I” they call her, tot
only white women they deem to
Be so swift to buy Joy with disgrace*
This is the way she came to be named with ad
angry derision,
And to see at her camp the black fingers,
tipped and blunt nailed,
Pointed straight into her face, and to hear through
stripped teeth the decision
That her claim to her old name had failed.
Gamma, her old name. [She married. A young fel-
low, supple, large-breasted.
And endowed with big thoughts that kept roll-
ing behind his white eyes,
Loved her and won her. Ha, ha, ’t was barbaric.
The wild words that blessed it
Left no footo in the rite for white lies.
Love, with bfoad wing; flew above him. His looks
were hiS thougnta when he took her.
There was no reservation j no counting on things *
that the eye did not see.
Proudly he bore himaeif; brave was his carriage-
no doubts of dim shook her;
He was truthful; she trustful; both free.
Kumbo his name was—young Kumbo. His tribe
pitched their camp la the valley.
The wild wind of the winter went past them; the
summer again.
With Its red sun rested on them; but, burning or
blowing, the sally
It was Kumbo’s to lead o’er the plain.
One day a spear from a rival's hand struck him.
With ones, on returning,
Unto Gamma they spoke ot the fray. The sad
gins clapped their hands—
And in the night the wide sky was ablaze with the
pines and gums burning,
As a spirit flew to the dark lands.
Sadly the gins wept with Gamma. Then later they
whispered the notion
That in some sort of far land they’d see the pair
walking again.
Gamma, tnough, married the man by whose spear
Kumbo fell; and the motion
Of the Ungers the deed can explain.
“White Mary I White Mary!” they call her, and
calling the nickname they seem to
Have attained to a form of reproach that brings
shame to her face.
“White Mary! White Mary I ” they call her; for
only white women they deem to
Be so swift to buy joy with disgrace.
E. LOWE.
Sydney, June 6,1885.


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
. PITT STREET, SYDNEY. " J
THE oldest and leading: Catering Establishment in N.S W "fntorero mo
Municipal Council of 8yd. ey, the A.J.C., City Club vn A„ ate s to Hifl worship the Mayor,
The Dining Wo^ f s 9^^ 8 a a °^en^ inthe oolo “y*
■to U p.m. (after the
and city <^Lub?up8toSS! feR waQt ‘
Bray Liiclitner,
J Hl 32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,;
► ► s
az
3 "T-S
Uur Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied^bes t, _
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, , tth(u ui n^i 0 B„ 11 . I orNo««*:
>> 3
E E>
<a
-
cjn
i
•3
O
o
i** s
ut ptdBJ ptre
<W &i(j Joj eiog
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most
and Cheapest in tbs. colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, «*-
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling', healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.'
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, whioh is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
A. & C. HUENERBEIM’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS 610161 STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
*# The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
IHSPSOXION COKDIAIlLT Invttmd.
JL. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET. '
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LllLEL
608 George-si.,
I
BTDNET.
mm pi fibiii.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRAS8ES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR, *
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
— —— ii.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
■
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREETp
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
tank or light service pumps
mining pumps
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
sugar-house pumps
vacuum pumps
DEEP- WELL-SINKING PUMPS
bbnd for prices and all particulars
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
ijl o ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY'S
Borax Soap
try IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
E£?S^/£t^ OOI)WORK - 111 either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP t
— fit i *
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin*
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skln.soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
r Sole Manufacturers;
Lewis & Whitty,
__ CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
R
teORFS
K5SKN0EO
LIFK
fa
ible
rerre
H . idy for ~
J)ebiLijvT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all whc
suffer wasting and withering of tho nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and evc:-y other ez
haustlve derangement of the system; regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his moot sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is onefoi
Ms.; If by coach, 2a. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney, p
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
Street. One Door from Georgu-street South.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may bo desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured,
i It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
Scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken In appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume,
Mr. C. P. Brigher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3,1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
- — entirelybald.” - *
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
* ’ (Ohio) Enquirer,, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
1 is a mqst excellent preparation for the hair.
1 I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes tho growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
‘ a‘sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
i.... very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
I*. an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
: tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
“ In the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, savs :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
growing bald. Oiuusing Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and'a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grpw, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottlo
of the Vigor; bqt. now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
* K We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value,
, PREPARED BY Q)
Dp.J C.Ayep&Co.,Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT HROS. and S. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
Arrtn oefo* nOTJuTASHd andWHISZEES. AFTEIt
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this,and
will do it on cither bald head or
bare fate, forces heavy Mans •
tache in/rom2 to 4 weeks and never
/ails, 20,000 young wen already
- - v wear full beards, having used 1 to' Copyrighted.
3 puts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets Is. Gd.
each, 3 for 3s. t VI.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation •
""" " * . &°l* Agent, Box *130, G.P.O., Sydney,.N.S. W'
9 a
HtJ
Copyrighted.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
B
AVARIAN
ITTERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIEBT,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TTxa-cLortstlrer,
•4 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.,
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (Id) years; also,
Manager for over ten CIO) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It at
last with the Argosy Braces at Q owing Bros.
X,
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 64., 3s , 3s. 6d.,ft 4s. 6
GOWINGIBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS. HATTERS, OUTFITTERS,*
382 and 488 Ge»r|e>»trMt,
1
■
*
William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I' find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything-of the-kind that I over used before.—
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moore.”
“ Dear Fir,—I have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom or Peaches’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.!'
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/8, and 7/6 per bottle.
“FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
The “Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOUHKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents, for Sydney;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO.; Wholesale Chemists.
GIBBS & CO.,
HOUSE, LAND AND GENERAL AGENTS,
Bohd-street Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney,
WOULD respectfully call the attention of the
public to the following - >
Owners are reminded that by sending In particu-
lars of the properties they have for sale, their
insertion is guaranteed in our list, and thus a cheap
mode of advertising secured.
No sale no commission, is our motto. We do not
expect, because a property is placed in our hands
(but sold by the owner himself), payment, except
for money actually expended out of pocket in
advertisements.
Intending purchasers should send for our
Monthly List, which contains full particulars of
every class of property from the cottage to th®
mansion. • • i •
’ Houses Let, Rents Collected, and Estates
Managed. Prompt Account Sales Rendered.
A Trial is Respectfully Solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Eugliih Papers and Wag a vines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARC ADR, URORQB ST„ AM S7DN1T


JjIUBNITUHl SHOW BOOM.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and bidi
. tables, bookcases, secretaires
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suite*, fashionably uphoi.
stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb. v >
WALL CABINETS for Choice ChlnaTfcoT
VERT ELEGANT, Just reoelved/Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newtoh, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various wooda
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
robe, chest drawers, waahstand, dress
glass, and twe chairs. The lot for £8.
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stieet.
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.— The
'A Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
- m
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WA8HBTAND, with marble ton
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE.
” < * v ‘ «—•— -ttaohed; PEDEST * r
SRAT CHAIRS. 18
With „
BOARD, and
swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP.
if CANE SEAT CHAIRS. 16 guineas:
bradleyT newton, and lambT
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from IQg
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 8d •
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards.
frnm £2 inn.* fHothfin FTnrup*. fwrni IHn AH • TOSH+iew!
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pwOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves foi
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Flush, &e.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIRS.-
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Conneil-st.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS. CARV-
INQ CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
S'
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH Alt-
Patented.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COCClTfor
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
S
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR_
RAMBWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, whion can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
IT
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oa%
Walnut, and Mahogany; THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, »nd
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets. ,
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamf
B
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates-
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’OoH'
*ell and Spring streets. _
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, from 38a. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
| AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
AJ Cast-iron Standards, 15a. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very eompl**s
Assortment; heat make, lowest prices.
An Interesting Discovery.—Among the
thousand and one interesting relics and curiosities
recently unearthed at the Burlington Hotel (late
Bulletin), in Castlereagh-street, during the ex-
Jlorations of the new proprietor, Mr. Franklin
aokes, special attention may be drawn to a full-
f rown and loaded cartridge, evidently intended
or me in that deadly war weapon, the 81-ton gijnl
Whether, during the recent warlike disturbances*
or anticipating an early return of the Contingent, a
a took of these missiles were j«ld in for use by the lato
host, we cannot say; but should imagine that the
“bhoyg” will be more than satisfied with the
excellent **• now In use. Instead of fortifying
their interiors with ball cartridge 1 Mr. Jackes has
been busily engaged during the past week in get-
ting things " fixed,” and already signs of improve-
ment are noticeable in the natty arrangement of
the various bars. Gus. Wangenheim’s caricatures,
too, are an attraction, and adorn the walls aa In
days of yore.*
r HE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANO,
The most Popular Instrument In the Colonies.
More are imported and sold throughout Australia
than any other make.
See advertisements for opinions of the greatest
musicians.
THE HAPSBURG PIANO,
A perfect model; a delicate touch ; strongest iron
frame ; all the latest improvements.
THE
HAYDN ORGAN,
9 i
The best and cheapest Cabinet Organ; of loud and
sweet tone; durably constructed throughout •
an elegant article of furniture.
Prices ranging from 20 to 50 guineas.
BEALE AND COMPANY.
Sole Importers of the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS, HAYDN ORGANS
and HARMONIUMS, the WONDERFUL
WERTHEIM SEEING MACHINES.
383 and.612 GEORGE STREET-
12 CBN1RAL MARKETS; and
151 OXFORD STREET.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Colony.
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
SOCIAL
They have set the ball a-rolling up Parra-
matta way, too, and the historic borough damsels
have again aired their gowns and charms. The
Britannia Cricket Club were the hosts. The room
had been quaintly decorated with flowers and
ferns and flags, the initials of the Club,
“ B.C C,” being interwoven here and there
amongst the floral ornamentation. The dresses,
too, were tasty, gorgeous and pretty. A particu-
larly attractive one was worn by a brunette
from Manly, who appeared as an American Min-
strel in a charming combination oif pale green
satin (splashed with gold stars and lunars) and
crushed strawberry. Two little cherubs from
Woolloomooloo skipped and hopped about as
Romp and a Sailoress, respectively, the costumes
being loose-fitting and “ relieving,” and the ma-
terial navy-blue effectively trimmed. Their part-
ners being also in sailor “ togs,” the quartette was
“harmonious" in appearance. About the best
dressed from Parramatta was a good dancer as a
Spanish Oitana, but a conspicuous character was
a Daughter of the Regiment from the same place.
Monte Carlo was assumed by another local girl,
and there was a Lizzie Stofel, a Water Nymph, and
a Little Red Riding Hood. The most graceful
amongst the evening dresses were a cream satin and
net from Paddington, a light green satin and
crushed strawberry from Newtown, and a cardinal
merino, toned with black lace, from Burwood.
Amongst the gentlemen were a Harlequin, a
Spanish Qentleman, an Krcanlello, Conn the
Sbaughran, and the endless number of Cricketers,
Footballers, Bicyclists, &o. Dancing was kept up
till 5 o'clock. The music and catering were local
achievements of some merit and satisfaction.
On Friday, tickets came to hand from the
secretary of the Stanmore C.G. for a concert
which eventuated on Thursday night. The tickets
were accompanied by apologies for tardiness and
a programme. We accept the apology, but al-
though not overburdened with modesty, we must
admit that criticising a concert by perusing the
programme is Just a little beyond us. We are
quite aware it la done time after time by our
daily contemporaries, but we gently but firmly
decline the task.
• • ♦
The Royal Naval sports held at Sydney
Association Ground on Thursday last, were en-
joyed by a good crowd of people. Some of the
races were quite funny, and created much amuse-
ment. An eccentric race was when the competi-
tors bad to creep under a bar, find their way
through yards of sewn-up canvas, burst through
barrels of coloured powder, and finally climb up
greased ropes. In honour of the day, many ladles
were pretty nautical costumes, two sisters in blue
and cardinal, white sailor bats, with blue and car-
dinal ribbons, looked bewitching. A dress,
made sailor fashion, was of white flannel, with
collar and cuffs of ruby plush, and a round bat,
also of the plush. A seal-brown velvet dress, with
feather trimmings, looked handsome. Two tall
ladies wore neat brown dresses and small brown
bonnets with orange-coloured tufts. One young
lady was noticeable for her riding costume, which
fitted the neat figure to a nicety. Miss Montague
wore a nice gray costume, and a young lady from
Macquarie-street looked stylish in green and a
crimson vest. Several crimson parasols gave a
nice colour to the scene, and lively music from the
Nelson’s band helped things along nicely.
• * »
The Metropolitan Smoke Concert at the
new Sydney Masonic Hall last week was one of
the best they have yet given. There’s no mistake
about It, Mr. Ashcroft Edwards does good work
with the singers, and as the society possesses, in
Mr. Charles Huenerbeln, the best accompanist
in Sydney, and have been fortunate enough to
secure Mr. Harry Hyndes as their honorary solo-
pianist, there is no reason why their concerts
should not ultimately find as much favour with
the public as those given by the senior society.
There’s this to be said for the Metropolitan
Lledertafel that they certainly endeavour to
secure the very best fresh talent they possibly can
for their concerts, while the parent society is too
apt to content itself by engaging the same artists
time after time, and thus their excellent concerts
become somewhat monotonous. The Metropolitan
Lledertafel promises an attractive social concert
for ladies and gentlemen at an early date.
• * ■ •
The second of the Petersham socials even-
tuated last Wednesday night in their Town Hall.
The attendance was more numerous than upon
the previous occasion, and some of the dresses
were very tasteful. Perhaps the best was a beau-
tiful shade of pink silk, worn by a pretty dark
young lady—bodic3 out low, and short sleeves
with artistic touchings of white lace. Miss Young
looked stately in a robe of black velvet, and neck-
let of oat’s eyes set in silver. Two sisters, from
Marriokville, wore white nun’s veiling; and Mrs.
Maitland, a crimson satin, trimmed with cream
lace. Miss Wentworth (a graceful dancer) wore a
quiet but tasteful dress of cream veiling, trimmed
with silk lace of a slightly darker shade. A rich
dress was a pink satin, made with high drapery,
and trimmed with chenille fringe. A deep flounce
of white lace covered the lower part of the skirt.
One Miss Pile wore pink veiling and satin, and a
pretty necklet of amythlsts set in gold round her
fair neck; and her sister, pale blue, trimmed with
florid lace the same shade. A peculiar dress was
a black batiste, which "sprung up” a good deal
behind, as the maker had forgotten to allow extra
length for the improver. The effect was funny-
very. Two beautiful dresses were composed of
ivory satin, with overskirts of ivory chenille
spotted tulle: and another white billowy skirt was
worn with a ruby velvet bodice—very nice also.
Two pretty sisters wore dresses which were simple
to severely—white mull muslin, made with baby
bodies, and plain skirts edged with a few narrow
tucks. Light refreshments were partaken of
about 10.30, and dancing was kept up till 12.
• • •
The Queen’s School sports were well at-
tended on Wednesday, 3rd, and the programme of
the different races was gone through in good style.
Owing to the freezing atmosphere the stand was
almost deserted, and what with the dried-up state
of the grass and the dark costumes, the lawn pre-
sented quite a sombre appearance. But costumes
can be sombre and yet elegant and tasteful at the
same time. For instance, the Misses Devlin’s
dark-brown cashmeres, with graceful skirt drap-
ings, and short jackets opening over vests of vel-
vet brocade, were in perfect taste. Miss Cohen
wore an uncommon shade of mashed mulberry,
and a very neat green costume was worn
by a fair young lady from Darlinghurst—the skirt
of cashmere, handsomely braided Jersey and hat,
with plumes and wing on one side. One young
lady who evidently intends to defy the "anti-
crinoline league,” must have bought up all the
available steel in Sydney for the occasion. Her
skirts were so formidable that all the boys kept off
and she did the lawn alone. A peculiar costume,
of a greeny yellow shade, was conspicuous. The
Tam O’Shanter was adorned with pink pompons,
and red hose and gloves finished off the daring
combination. A lovely dress was composed or
biscuit-coloured cashmere, with pink and blue shot
short polonaise; the skirt was nicely draped with
biscuit lace. Fur capes there were in plenty-
some very nice and some ugly ones. The prizes
which have been exhibited in Peapes and Snaw’s
window, consisted of the usual silver cups, toast
racks, butter and sardine dishes. Wonder what
the lucky winners do with them all—do they keep
them till they get married, or, like dutiful sons,
present them to mamma?
* ♦ »
On Friday evening lust we were on
the point of attending a c mm .ue meeting
of the Social Purity Society, whtu the edi-
tor said. “ Go to the Glebe ball," and, as our
maxim through life has been “ business before
pleasure," we dutifully went to the ball, and for
six hours revelled in a carnival of lovely women s
smiles, and dreamy waltzes, and turkey, and ham,
and Jellies, and Chateau Lafltte. The dresses of
the ladies were exceptionally attractive, but it
would be impossible to enumerate all. The fol-
lowing list, though it may not have all the pre-
ciseness of an agricultural show catalogue, is yet
calculated, we flatter ourselves, to thrill the ordi-
nary female breast—in fact, there’s a thrill in
every line:—Very pretty was Miss Timmins in
pink nun’s veiling, elbow sleeves, and V-shaped
front draped with tulle and white lace, with
§ earls; Miss Phillips, cream Madras muslin skirt,
ody of peculiar shade of green; Miss E. Phillips,
blue Brussels lace skirt, satin body to match, with
wreaths of water-lilies and pearls, fan of blush
roses; Mrs. Horne, black Brussels lace, with red
chenille spots; Miss Price, beautiful white lace,
chenille spotted skirt, Oriental cord body, and
bertha of white feathers; Mrs. Eainford, as God-
dess of Morn, white satin and pearls, Brussels
lace fall; Miss Reldy, crushed strawberry and
cream lace, bow of the Club colours in her hair;
Mrs. Painter, a magnificent costume of coffee-
coloured lace, body to match; Miss Hollander,
skirt of cream cashmere, edelweiss lace front,
body of lace and cashmere, old gold ribbon
streamers ; Miss Murphy, skirt of flounced white
edelweiss lace, body and overskirt of blue spotted
broch4; Miss Robinson, white satin dress, hand-
somely trimmed with pearls, streamers of the
Club colours; Miss Josephine Bull, body and coat-
tail of black velvet, skirt of pink satin with
flowers of edelweiss lace—an Elizabethan collar
completed this very tasteful costume; Miss Carey,
pale-blue silk, with trimmings of white tulle and
silver stars ; Miss Adams, Merveilleux satin skirt.
Oriental lace, top and body ornamented with ger-
anium leaves; Miss Yeend looked very pretty In
a costume of black Spanish lace, satin body with
wreaths of buttercups; Miss Davidson, cardinal
satin skirt, flounces of guipure lace; Miss Archi-
bald’s petite figure was seen to advantage in a
skirt of Brussels net, closely kilted and
edged with old gold satin, body of black
velvet and old gold feathers around the
neck ; Miss Wilkinson, a tall, pretty girl
in white satin, pearl fringe, garlands of
wild flowers on neck and head: Mrs. J. N. Hart,
light maroon satin, trimmed with magnificent
cream lace passementerie trimming. We also
noticed other beautiful dresses, but our cup of
Joy is dashed! to the ground with the reflection
that wo are unacquainted with the names of the
wearers. The following still linger in our
memoryA brunette. In black Spanish lace, lace
skirt, old gold body and ribbons to match. A
rather tall lady, clad in a costume of salmon-
coloured satin, with wreaths of chrysanthemums
of darker shade. Another-cream satin mervell-
leux, with trimmings of black Spanish lace. There
was also a peculiar costume of pea-green satin
slashed with cardinal. Two good dancers, one
wearing edelweiss lace skirt, cream satin body and
cardinal pons-pons—the other, black Brussel’s lace
of cardinal velvet. Amongst the males the same
old style prevailed, and we need hardly say that
dudes were conspicuous by their absence. Those
articles do not flourish In the vigourous atmos-
phere of the Glebe Point athletes. All praise is
due the committee and Mr. H. R. Cox, the hon.
sec., who did their utmost to make this the most
successful ball of the season.
• a «
A plain and fancy dress ball was given by
Alderman Hart, J.P., in the Newtown Town Hall,
on Monday, June 1st. Amongst those present
were several leading men of Sydney and suburbs.
The Mayoress wore an extremely tasteful dress of
rich satin ai d Spanish lace, with pearls. A
M’Donaldtown young lady in blaoc velvet danced
beautifully. There were two nice Swiss Pea-
sants, and a married lady wore a hand-
some blue velvet costume. A childish figure
as Cordelia looked pretty, and a young dam-
sel in black velvet and steel spangles was cap-
tivating. A Sailor Lass, a Nancy Lee, a Gipsy, and
a Juliet, were appropriately attired, and a charm-
ing blonde wore a white satin bodice and lace
skirt. Mrs. Hart also wore satin trimmed with
lace. Many admired the pretty little Shepherdess,
whose costume was very tasteful; and a married
lady, from Botany, impersonated Lady Macbeth.
A few gentlemen donned fancy costumes, the
most conspicuous being Robert Emmett, and Don
Caesar, and Mephlstophiles.
• • ■
A nice ball was held in Mr. Napthnlias’
rooms, Dubbo, on the 3rd instant. A big crush,
but music and tempers were so good that the
jostling was rather enjoyed than otherwise. Mrs.
Irving looked very charming in white silk,
and her sister, Miss Campbell, ditto; Miss But-
ler wore a pretty costume of cream and
cardinal, and was within an ace of winning
the beileahip; Miss Smith wore pink silk, and a
mixture of pink and ruby was worn by a nice
dancer from Macquarie-street. The sister of a
local solicitor was dainty in white and cerise, and
Miss Emily Brown wore a handsome robe of black
velvet and cardinal satin. Mrs. Wilkinson’s white
trailed satin looked well, and another white dress
of broche and lace was worn by a lady from
Bourke-street. Mesdames Brody and Barton wore
black. Dancing- kept up till 4 in the morning.
♦ ♦ •
Second of the Ladies’ Winter Assemblies
took place in M‘Mahon’8 Hall, Narandera, on the
6th Inst., and was a marked success. About 30
couples attended. The belle of the evening was
undoubtedly Mias Bear, in white satin and net.
Miss Barrow came next, in olive-green broche.
Miss Eiworthy, in black broche and sea-green veil-
ing, looked very neat; and Miss Mary Morgan, in
black chenille net, looked and danced well. Fore-
most among the married ladies who deserve men-
tion, were Mrs. Mlnnett, in black silk; Mrs. Smith,
in pink and black satin: and Mrs. Williams in pale-
blue and chocolate silk.
* « * *>
Grand wedding at Pioton the other dav.
Bride, Miss Cunningham, and bridegroom, Mr.
Maxwell. Ball in the evening.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items. In order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
Verona C.C.”: Tickets to band, too late to be
available.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Annual Masonic Ball (Masonic Hall, Par-
ramatta) June 12.
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18.
St. Hilda Social (Balmain School of Arts)..June 19.
Rover Cricket Club Annual Social, New
Masonic Hall June 26.
The Mutual Imps Ball, Needs’ Rooms June 29.
Fifth Annual Meeting Royston College
Amateur Athletic Club, Moore Park...June 17.
Petersham Owl Club Roost, Petersham
Town Hall June 10.
A BAP OVER THE KNUCKLES.
JACK ROBERTSON ( loq .); “I SHALL WRITE NO MORE LETTERS FOR A WHILE. OH, DEAR
ME, YES. THAT IS THE STICK THEY DID IT WITH 1 ’*


Department of Public Works.
Sydney/June, 9th 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies-tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated. -
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A, WRIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 2nd June, 1885.
CLOSING OF SCHOOLS FOR MIDWINTER
VACATION.
ALTERATION IN TIME OP.
A Schools under this Department will be
CLOSED on FRIDAY, the 12th June, for a
period of three weeks.
By order of the Minister,
E. JOHNSON,
Under-Secretary.
Prospectus
of the
NEW SOUTH WALKS OYSTER COMPANY,
Limited,
To be incorporated under the Companies’ Liability
Act.
CAPITAL : £6000 In 2000 SHARES of £3 each.
(One Thousand of these Shares are to be retained
by the original Shareholders.)
Half to be paid on Application, and balance on
Allotment.
Directors to be elected by Ballot.
A member bolding Ten Shares will be eligible for
election as a Director.
Provisional Directors:
DAN. O'CONNOR, Esq., M P„ Palmer-street.
W. C. PROCTOR, Ksq., M.P., King-st., f
WALTER COO NAN, Esq.. M.P. Phillip-st., Sydney
JAMES HUNT, Esq,, Oxford Hotel, Sydney.
Bankers :
CITY BANK.
Solicitor: ’
Secretar;
W. H. L. BAILEY, 44
i-street.
The Ground of the Company consists at present
of over 10,000 yards of tne best oyster-bearing
foreshores and beds in the famous bays of Port
Stephens, the Hawkesbury, and other ports, and
has been selected by men of over 20 years’ expe-
rience in oyster-culture and collecting.
The Proprietors are now in legal possession of a
large quantity of these foreshores under interim
permits from the Government, leases for which
are now being drawn up for fifteen years’ occupa-
tion, with the right of extension for another siml-
larperlod.
Work has already commenced in Fort Stephens,
under the superintendence of experienced hands,
and in less than two months six men have laid
down over 1100 bags (equal to 3300 bushels) of
oysters on suitable beds tor fattening. Some bave
already been sent to the market, which have ob-
tained high prices.
The quantity of oysters taken from the oyster-
beds of New South Wales, and in respeo 1 of which
royalty has been received
eminent
cording to
during the year ending Janua y, if=3.i
official returns, was 73,053 bushels, tr 24.331 bags,
the average price realised during the same period
being 30s. per bag, representing in value a sum of
about £40,000; and it is notorious that the quantity
of oysters was much less than that taken by illegal
dredging, a condition of things which necessitated
the passing of the Act referred to, and which it
has fortunatelyput a stop to.
New South Wales is noted as being the finest
climate in the world for oyster culture, and now
that the beds and foreshores have had such long
rest, with ordinary care the supply may be looked
upon as inexhaustible.
It is unnecessary to make any comments on the
wonderful returns from oysters.
In London alone over £4,000,000 sterling worth
is consumed yearly;, and in America it is estimated
at nearly £5,000,000 sterling, with an exportation of
over 40,000,000 of tinned oysters yearly.
It is estimated that over 3b per cent, will be a
return for the first year, and the following years
increasing in a much larger proportion.
The present proprietors are still working the
beds, laying down and (in culling) sending down
marketable oysters to keep down current expenses.
All moneys paid In for Shares applied for will be
immediately put to the credit of the Company for
working expenses, and a receipt given acknow-
ledging the amount and allotted shares.
The present proprietors ask tor no remunera-
tion whatever further than their paid-up shares,
but being satisfied with estimated results, offer
the half of their interest, all of which will be
placed to the credit of the Company.
To the Secretary of the New South Wales Oyste
Company, Limited.
TTmeo uytaer uompanj
and enclose half the sum, and furtner agree to pa
the balance when the shares are allotted to me.
further agree to accept such shares or such let
number of them as may be allotted to me, subjec
to the articles of association to be hereafte
adopted by the shareholders
I am, yours faithfully.
Signature
Address
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Taath.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 133
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to inseit teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other Aims.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £500 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, 188 Blizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market-street. N.B.—All trams stop at the door.
R.BURGIS
TAILOR:
' l .
limp
EY BURGIS £3 8s. Suits, to measure. Trouser
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, am
ughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house fo
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRBBT
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for se/Vmeaaurlm
forwarded to any nart of the oolonv
SATAN IS COKING!
FORSALB-THB BOOK OP KNOWLEDGE-
Contents: Millenium, 1890; arrival of the long
anticipated Jewish Messiah; great financial crisis,
1886; great war throughout the entiie world, 1886;
Satan the chief Anti-Christ, time of his birth,
incidents connected with Satan’s birth, powers
and advance skirmishes, Satan’s Temple, Ten
Commandments, Satan's Ensign and inscripti ns
whit Satan says regarding his e-sign to all ratio r,
’. c .9 1 gibing. c'drets august Boh*.
ttt. Pftul Minn,, U.8.A, 1
Zetland Estate, Waterloo
COOPER FREEHOLDS!,
FEW YARDS FROM THREEPENNY TRAM.
AUCTION SALE, ON THE GROUND.
NEXT SATURDAY, 13th June,
AT 2.30 P M.
No Reserve. Every lot offered will be Sold.
10 per cent, deposit, balance extending over 7 years.
289 SPLENDID BUILDING LOTS
Wide Streets, 20 feet Lanes.
Sandy Soil. Good Drainage. City Water and Gas.
Title—!Treeli,cld., UTreeliold.
Builders, Speculators, Artizans, and Mechanics
should not neglect this opportunity.
Next Saturday Afternoon, June 13
PLANS FROM THE AUCTIONEERS,
Batt, Rodd, and Purves.
ON THE
ZBridrifleld.
OIIl STAY HI CORSIT DEPARTMEHT.
PRICE LISTS POST FREE. TWENTY PER CENT. UNDER
ANY SYDNEY HOUSE.
£400 WORTH OP STEEL ANGLOS TO SELECT FBOM.
/(?
CO
iP
t
t
K)
#'0
uO
%
Sta/s sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
J. STANLEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST. ~
Mr. Charles Blackett, the teat Anglo-German
concertina-player In the colony, writes to me
The concertina I bought from you last year is
the best I ever had—its tone cannot be excelled,
and the touch and articulation are perfection.
Your invention of screwing down the levers will
remedy the principal fault found in Steel Anglos
in hot climates, and your workmanship on every
part of the instrument, I believe, is unequalled in
Australia.
• (
‘‘Byrock, April 20,1885.
Charles Blackett,
. ‘‘P.S.—Tour prices are far below any other es-
tablishment that I know of.”
mHE AUSTRAL ASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors.
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors.
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Prank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
wamst death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
oloni^ aly Live 8tock Insurance Society in the
signer! particu l ar8 can be obtained from the under-
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royie 9 Chambers, Bond-street.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 38. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5a. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 80. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. Cd., 12s 6
L
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON*, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
-Order i from the Country will receive Immediate and earetul attention.


Woxjte’s Schnapps.—It has often been
pirated, but never had a rival.
There is a rumour abroad that F. C. Bur-
nan d is coming to Australia. We hope not. We
have read his “Happy Thoughts," and they are
very, very funny; but we dpn t want to hear Mr.
Burnand read them We have had quite enough
of lately. 8ala, too full of beef
to be eloquent; and Massey writing poetry for the
Sydney D.T.
When purchasing Schnapps specify
Womra’g Schnapps, as it is the only genuine
Schnapps.
Imitations of the genuine Wolfe s
Schnapps are more or less adulterated fiery com-
pounds. Therefore shun them.
Ball Room Specialities—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit*
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects sin-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated, 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Political Points
“ The Ameer murdered by his suite.” A
straw shows how the wind blows. They are fol-
lowing Russian fashions in Afghanistan.
Gibraltar is thus mentioned in all Spanish
official documents: “Our most loyal and noble
City of Gibraltar, in the Campo of Gibraltar, City
of Gibraltar being in the temporary occupation of
the British.”
The Penny Chris, gives Slattery a sub-
leader of a marmaladean character. Pourquoi 1
Bah I—
They know as well as we do, Tom,
Though you are passing fair.
Outside you are all butter, and
Inside you are all air I
Notwithstanding the loud ory from
Northern sugar planters about the scarcity and
dearness of labour, it is a fact that every planta-
tion is at present full-handed, and that wages are
far from being exorbitant. What, then, is the
cause of the cry ? If the Brisbane Courier be
correct it is because the Government policy has
damaged their credit. Those with money to lend
would lend more freely were black labour not
Interfered with.!
A REFLEXION.
(Overheard by the Little Boy at Manly.)
“ Want to be.a knight 1
I not for that was panting;
But now I’m not a knight,
I feel there’s something wanting I
When I go home, it seems you see.
It won’t go down, that ’ plain Bill D.’ ”
Mr. Henry George was guilty of one piece
of grim humour in bis last speech on the land
question in London. He said; “ There has been
great progress in this country in those principles
[the principles of land nationalisation, &o ] since I
was last here Only the other day I saw in a ne ws-
paper an incendiary declaration that God Al-
mighty had made the land.” If h« had made that
Statement here, the 8. M. Herald would have
agreed with it, but would also have taken care to
gravely inform him that, though God Almighty
made the land, the squatters first fenced it in.
How would he rise up after that facer ? Eh ?
England Is a Christian country, and dur-
ing the last two centuries she has been half her
time at war. She has conquered with fire and
sword, during the last hundred and fifty years,
nearly three million square miles of territory,
inhabited by two hundred and fifty million people.
Within'the past century she has spent six thou-
sand million pounds on her army and navy and the
Interest of her war debt. Yet there are people
who love to repeat that old story about Queen
Victoria, who, in an interview with a foreign
prince, laid her hand on the Bible and said, “ This
Is the secret of England’s greatness.
Just when we thought the peace of the
world secured forsome time, at least, a disquieting
telegram'reaches us from Berlin. Bismarck is 70,
but advancing years and baldness appear to have'
no effect in keeping him quiet. We now learn
that he has concluded an offensive and defensive
alliance between Germany and Looma, Looma
appears to be a city of mud on the African coast,
and the chief is in rebellion against the Sultan of
Zanzibar. On condition that the rebel ruler will
make the Interests of the German Empire his own,
the Prince Chancellor engages to keep the Zanzibar
monarch out of Looma or squelch him. And the
Prince goes further. He “expresses a hope that
the British Government will induce the 8ultan!to
desist from provoking Germany.” To desist
from provoking Germany I Bismarck is a born
humourist.
The Melbourne Land Board has been sit-
ting for the purpose of investigating certain
selections near Pish Creek, in Glppsland (Vic.). It
seems that a railway was to pass that locality, and
In August ’84, the Government finding that land
vU being taken up along the projected line, with-
held a large area ffom selection. The evidence
given at the Inquiry Shows that a man named
Armstrong pegged out 320-acre blocks for Solo-
mon Levlen (brother of the Victorian Minister for
Mines), Miss Minnie Harris (daughter of Mr.
Harris, M.L.A.), G. D. Carter, M.L.A., Mayor of
Melbourne, and Thomas Cooper, M.L.A., chairman
of committees. There was nothing Illegal In this
selection by deputy, but it is a strange fact that so
many members should happen to select along a
future railway route.
The other night a Sydney evening paper
galvanised its four readers into frenzy by a state-
ment in big type that 15,000 British troops were
marching on Herat. And on what authority was
this statement made, think you ? On that of a
cablegram in these words: “Fifteen thousand
troops Herat.” That this should have been inter-
preted as “15,000 British troops” shows what
magnificent egotists we have amongst us. There
are, of course, no other troops in the world but
our own. And yet it was a deal more likely that
15 000 Russians bad reached Herat than that 15,000
Britons had been sent there I It was ten thousand
times more probable still that the troops referred
to were Afghans. Why didn’t they tell us that
15,000 Australian cavalry and [artillery had started
from Quetta? They're probably keeping that for
next week.
We don’t believe that the N.8.W. Lands
Office and land-agents have entered into a con-
spiracy to rob the public, nor do we think that the
officials of the former office purposely tie knots that
the agents may be profitably employed in loosen-
ing. we would not believe these things if Arch-
bishop Moran were to swear to them on the os
frontis of Saint Columbkllle, and the Noozb were
to deny them in a brevity. Still we do believe that
a selector paid up in full for his 40 acres in 1876,
and has been trying to get bis deeds ever since,
and that although he received the deeds of two
other blocks, he discovered that “ Victoria by the
grace of God ” had granted “to him and his heirs
for ever ” some and for which he had not paid.
Further, we credit his assertion that he had to
skip around the Asylum for the Destitute, as ho
playfully terms the “ Lands,” for several days
before he could elicit a languid promise that the
mistake would be remedied. These things are not
done thus for the sake of the agents. It simply is
that some of the Land officials are mighty genuises,
and genius is proverbially erratic.
Why it is that two men employed at the
same work in the same public office, and with re-
sponsibilities of the same kind, should be rated
differently in respect to salary and promotion, is
one of those things that only a Civil Service
Board or the permanent head of a Government
Department can fully understand. The commer-
cial man seeks in vain to grip the principle of the
thing. In the office of the Surveyor-General In
Sydney there is a distinction of a very subtle kind
drawn between two classes of employes. One
class goes through a pretty stiff examination, and,
on passing, is appointed to posts worth £2 10*. or
£3 per week. Another class, beginning as cadets,
obtain, at 19 years of age, posts valued at £175 per
annum. The members of 1 the former class are
men, the members of the latter merely youths.
Both go op doing the same work in the same
office, but the former is, In the language of the
office, a “ person," while the latter Is an ** officer,”
and the Civil Service Act provides for a progres-
sive increase in the salary of the “ officer,” while
It practically ignores the “person.” This Is
anomalous.
The Separation movement is still stirring
In the North of Queensland. Townsville Is hold-
ing meetings in favour, and meetings against.
Cooktown is also divided. Charters Towers may
be taken as against It, and Maokay as for It. The
principle Involved In the agitation is much warped
by the coolie question. Naturally Queensland,
especially the metropolitan part of It, will be re-
luctant to let any part of the territory secede. But
the secession is politically practicable. The
cardinal point to be determined is whether equity
demands It. This determination would be reached
without difficulty, were It not that the way Is
blocked by argument on side-issues. The Separa-
tists are suspected of getting' up, and keeping up
the cry, not with a genuinely formed desire to
secure their Independence, but for the purpose of
frightening the present Government Into allowing
a free use of black labour. One wanting to get a
dear view of the case has to read through inter-
minable arguments in proof and rebuttal of such
allegations. Something succinct, showing the ad-
vantages Northern Queensland would enjoy, if In-
dependent, which it does not enjoy now, should be
held steadily before the eyes of the people. Valu-
able strength is being wasted on the present lines
of discussion.
Brisbane possesses several heroes, but is,
we rejoice to say, the owner at present of one tre-
mendous one. Talk of blocking up a channel and
building batteries at the mouth of a harbour, and
planting cannon along the river bank I The
Russians would sail tranquilly along, quite sure
that anything likely to do them barm would not
go o£T. But put Ebenezer Thorne, of Brisbane, on
a raft at the mouth of Moreton Bay, and the open-
ing and shutting of his mouth would strike terror
into the whole Muscovite fleet. Think of the
width to which he must have extended his jaws to
be able to roll out such clamour as this: “ We are
no wretched slaves of some European despot, but
free-born Australians, from whose English parents
we have inherited the calm and steady
brain .... and the; spirit which shrinks
from neither God norlman, and feels it light to die
for wife and child, for people and for Queen.”
That’s the sort of man for a young country to pos-
sess. But, somehow, Queensland docs not do the
right thing with this hero. It won’t let him into
Parliament, though he labours hard to that end.
It won’t let him run the leading paper of the
eolony, though he has tried it at from a penny up.
It only lets him pray, speculate, and spout. Ought
It not, now, to put him on a raft, take him down to
Moreton Bay, and get him to make his mouth and
the mouth of the Bay concentric circles, so that
the invading cruiser would steer straight into his
"freeborn Australian” throat, and come slap
against that “ spirit which shrinks from neither
God nor man ? ”
Woman Items
German ladies are taking to crinoline.
Women with fat waists will everywhere adopt this
hideous fashion if they get a ohanoe.
Edmund Yates says that when Mrs. Lang-
try first burst upon London society, the dowagers
declared “she had only two frocks.” The next
year, with unabated malice, they wanted to ktaow
“ who paid for all her gowns.”
A murderer who was recently hanged was
so light In weight that It was feared his fall would
not prove fatal. He was accordingly fed with a
piece of brlde’s-cake Just before he ascended the
gallows. His neck was instantly broken.
A woman-suffrage lecturer recently
brought down the house with the following argu-
ment : “ I have no vote, but my groom has. I have
a great respect for that man In the stable, but I
am sure If I were to go to him and say, ‘ John
will you exercise the franchise ? ’ he would rdply
* Please, mum, which horse be that ? * ”
The old boy returned home late and found
a yokel with a lantern under his kitchen window,
who, when asked his business, stated he had only
come a-courtlng. “ Come a what ?” “ A-courtlng,
sir. I'm a-oourting Mary.” “It’saliel What do
you want a lantern for ? I never used one when I
was a young man.” “No, sir?” was the yokel’s
reply; “I didn’t think yer ’ad, Judging: by the
missis.”
In Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera, “The
Mikado,” Katisha, being told she is handsome, re*
plies; “ That is not true; my face is plain, but it. is
not in the face alone beauty may be sought. I
have a left shoulder-blade that is a miracle of
loveliness. People come miles to see it. My right
elbow has a fascination few can resist; it is on
view Tuesdays and Fridays on presentation of
visiting card. As for my circulation, it is the
largest in the world.”
“ The winter dancing in London,” says .the
Graphic, “ was noticeable for the suppression of
square dances.” We always thought it would
come to this at last. A rhyme, with reason:—
When Beauty shows her bosom bare
Round dances then are rife -
How could men dance upon the square
In such a sphere of life ?
Not in fashionable circles anyhow.
The wife of a “gentleman of property”
named Bell, recently ran away with her husband’s
coachman. This occurred at Harrogate, Eng-
land, and society is said to marvel greatly, and
much sympathy was felt for Mr. Bell, the “gentle-
man of property.” We think this is bosh 1 Fancy
Sympathising with a man (of property) at losing a
wife whQ rims away with hia coachman! Our
sympathy is with the coachman; for is It not on
the cards that directly the minu becomes a little
emaciated, the lady will run away with the coach-
man s butler ?
Charlotte Cushman, the great American
tragedienne, “ had a foot of her own” In size, and
generally wore fours, but could crowd into a
three and a-half on “a tight squeeze.” One night,
soon aft c r recovering from a severe attack of in-
flammatory rheumatism, she was wearing a pair of
slippers much too small for her. Darting behind
jthe wings between the scenes, she snatched them
off and threw them as far as she could, exclaiming,
godsl Somebody lend me a nair of slippers,
or 111 go on in my stockings 1” “ What number do
you wear ?” asked a young actor, ready to help her
in the emergency. “ Oh, never mind the number;
anything from five to twenty I” she replied.
The dres^ —if dress it might be called—of
Miss Katherine Bayard, at the American Presi-
dent s recent Inauguration Ball, was made of a sort
or transparent, flesh-coloured cashmere, without
any linings. The corsage was simply a belt around
the waist about four Inches broad, trimmed with
white pearl fringe. It was held in place by Inch-
wide ribbons acroES the shoulders. Pink silk
mittens completed the upper part of the toilet.
The skirt, very scant and clinging, was a demi-
train of the pink-cashmere, looped up at one side
about half way between the right knee and hip,
worn over pink silk tights. The young lady is a
half blonde with Titlanesque hair, fair complexion,
and a round, plump figure. In this costume there
was absolutely nothing left to the imagination.
Mrs. Garland, the airy little editress of the
Carcoar Chronicle, thus addresses her feminine
readers:— “Gone. -Girls, if you have tears, pre-
pare to shed them now. Mr. Oatley, of the City
Bank, took his departure from Carcoar during the
week. He had been creditably connected with
the bank here for many years. Besides being a
flrst-class cricketer, he excelled in football and
running, and his departure will be severely felt in
circles. He was a bit of a favourite with
; both sexes, but more particularly with the gazelle
division, many of whom would darn his socks for
less than the asking. He doesn’t leave a wife and
sorrowing family, but he might have If he had
liked He will make friends wherever he goes
and will be happy under all circumstances. He
.will never run a newspaper, though he may run
Malone some day. We wish him good.”
The lady students at the University of
New Zealand have objected to being obliged to
read the plays of Terence. Terence is an elegant
writer spoken highly of for more than 2000 years,
and to some extent studied by everyone who has
tried to master the Latin tongue. The New Zealand
ladies have discovered, however, that his morality
is lax, and divine poet though he be, they are de-
termined to thrust his works out from their pre-
sence. Once set rolling, the objection is on tour
through the colonies, and if allowed against
Terence, It is hard to name a Latin poet who will
be safe. In those glad, mad, bad, early days, it
was easy to get Intellect in poets, but hard to get
morality. At the present time, it is easy to get
morality, but hard to get Intellect. If Latin must
be learned from metrical works, and ladies will
persist in rejecting the old Romans, could not
somebody meet the difficulty by translating Doug,
las Bladen into Latin and making him a University
classic ?
A survey of the lives of later literary
women shows us two things: First, that most of
them were either single, or, if married, were child-
less, and second, that they have been generally
long-lived. The list of literary spinsters includes
Fredrlka Bremer, Emily Bronte, Hannah More,
Harriet Martineau, Eliza Cook, Miss Sedgwick,
Gall Hamilton, the Carys, Miss Dickinson, Maria
Bdgewood, Miss Mitford, Augusta Evans, Jane Aus-
ten. while that of childless women Includes Mrs.
Nichols (Charlotte BronW), Mrs. Somerville, George
Band (?), Mrs. Cross (George Eliot), Mrs. M‘Lean
(Letitia E. Landon). Several have bad one or two
children only—for example, Mrs. Barrett Browning
had one son, and Mme. Darblay one son, Mme. de
two children;*Mme de Stael also had chil-
dren. Both men and women of distinguished
intellectual talents, and who are active brain-
workers, are liable to be childless, or to have but
few children. The world would soon be depopu-
lated if it were filled with persons of great intel-
lectual stature.
Women of fashion have lately found quite
anew method of exercising their Intellect-and
their servants. Before the consummation of that
mystic rite known to ladies as afternoon tea, it is
now considered a necessary thing to haul the fur-
niture about, and fix it in new positions. If it
should be seen twice In the same position by the
guests the hostess runs a risk of being set down as
old-fashioned and obsolete. And what woman
could stand that ? Consequently—but as the mat-
ter is too recondite for a barbarous masculine
mind, let us quote the inimitable fashion-writer
from whom we first obtained the thrilling informa-
tion:—“The hostess arranges her room each time
differently; places her tea-table in various corners;
contrives picturesque nooks, with tall, spread-
ing palm-trees, shaded lamps and folding screens
[O suffering husband, how we feel for youl]
pushes little table?, invitingly laid out with
a pretty cloth, a set of tea - things, and
various cakes in a quaint receptacle, into the
midst of a group of chairs; or arranges her visitors
in full view of the fire in stiff chairs, old-fashioned
settees, and upright sofas of a past age [Oh, miser-
able visitors, to be bedevilled like this I] These
transformation scenes take place on the morning
of the at-home day, and are not generally regarded
by the housemaid In the same light as the mistress.
The latter stands by, with critical eye, while plants
and furniture, ornaments and rugs, are being
moved about from place to place, till the desired
effect, whether artistic, luxurious, or severe, is
arrived at.” Oh, noble occupation for an immortal
soul—dragging around furniture for other im-
mortal souls to simulate astonishment at each new
effect. Wise were thou, Mahomet, that said woman
bad no soul I
Mrs. Dugdale appears to be succeeding in
her mission in Melbourne. She is the champion
advocate of women’s rights in Australia. She has
a large heart, a large head, abundance of time, an
active pen, and a supple tongue. With' these
materials she can achieve, if not the emancipation
of women, the consternation of men. She can also
give us a great consolation in one matter. Men,
itherto conspicuous for unobtrusiveness, are
found rushing to the front with ardour and assert-
ing their readiness to die fighting against the
female Invader. The Hon. John Woods is, we are
informed, anxious to treat her as he would have
England to treat the Russians. “Concessions
now," he declares, “ will leave no branch of the
avocations sacred hitherto to bifurcated garments
safe from the intrusion of the tempestuous petti-
coat.” Another unobtrusive citizen who offers his
services at this dire extremity is Mr. David Gaun-
son. Rethinks women have enough of whatever
fun is going “ from the struggle to get married to
the struggle to got saved.” He professes himself to
be a “ male unbel iever” in her riuht to vote. The
third of tho great men who never mix themselves
up in public discussions until the unanimous voice
or the colony demands it, and who then express
themselves with deference and modesty, Is, we
learn, Mr. Caulfield, the “ Boy-Politician.” He also
is willing to sacrifice himself to stay the march of
the gallant matron. His letter is longer than the
others, but that is possibly because he is younger.
“ There is, he says, “ a weak place, or a wrong
place, or a£rotten place in the character or nature
of every woman who stands and howls upon the
spot where her Creator placed her.” It can be
seen that Mrs. Dugdale has her work cut but for
her, and that if she wins it will be over the dead
bodies of three of the greatest and most unobtru-
sive men in Victoria. We don’t know precisely
how much Mrs. Dugdale is going for, but we are
willing to grant her almost everything in the
world if she will kill these three
“HAD.”
AGED VALETUDINARIAN: “ BOY, 18 THERE NOT WATER IN THAT MILK ? "
BOY: “ YBS8IR.”
A, Y.; “AH, HA I AND YOUR MASTER PUT IT IN, I SUPPOSE.”
BOY: “NO, HE DIDN’T.”
A. V:: “WHO DID THEN?”
BOY: "THE COWS; THEY DRUNK IT THE BBG’LAR WAY.” (A.F. retires.)


TACK THOMPSON,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRES8ING SALOON.
91 Zing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney,
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Uanasik.
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOOK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. Q. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
i, iii mill
Importers of
8TK RAILWAV N A?fn ® B 9 m8IT]E8 ' WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
KAIL Mm^VO N pR?TSHf^ C0N PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Ac.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-I
QKRY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
■ Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
PORTABLE. FIXE
and SEMI-FIXED E
GINES
VERTICAL and HOI
ZONTAL BOILERS
— TEAM and oth
Sl:;‘ PUMPS
iiLATHES, PLANIN
SHAPING, 8CRE 1
— r- ,***** '-*1 CVlVI
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRJ
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLI
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ao.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron and Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY;
- N OBAOBOHDBOH
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
liOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by feason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co,, Boston, U.S.A.
niiiiiurnunn'p
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
185:
PIANOS/ ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMEN
GUARANTEE
cuf y
VERY
MODERATE
prices!
The Most Liberal
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To Select from.
SYDNEY.
BAUMANN,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
luncheon and refreshment rooms for ladies and gentlemen.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and STD1TEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of tbe
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufactwtn
Hi ait-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
IBYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied'
DIRECT
f rom their
London^
Manufactory;.
and Latest.
London Stylev
Guabantiid.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are Buffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’a
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ if you are a Minister, and have qvor-
• taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will B*store you.
‘‘If you are a man of business or
* labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man.of let-
‘ ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengfhten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
'ordrinking, any Indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as 1b often the case, Am. Co s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without Intoxlcat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ if you are old, and yoiir blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, VOUr nerves
1 unsteady, and your faculties Waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give ybu ttbW Life
and Vigour.
•' HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
• refreshing flavouring fof sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
* them harmless, and . Sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
Anil you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
WeakNenrousMan
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
tuid vigorous manhood in
* instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay IS
uniformly successful because based On ponflct
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Pull information and illustrated
treatise sent free (scaled!. .
J. O Connell,
P.0. Bor 466. 52 Caatleroagh St., Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE,
EA II D B COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Ylenna, 1873
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other oom-
mu’beoome the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the elite of
The'hirge and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Ban de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India; and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number— 4711 changed Into 7411.1147. 4117. &C to.
The real orenuin© article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-goid label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
i-.i':
rrW^rli-twrv-iii
trr^rm-m/
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
ISOSS-A-LIE, XjLOTTID CO.
RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Paris and London, and are now showing: the
f-f most charming little Bonnets at 31s.; and Hats at 18s. 6d., which are simply beautiful; and,
ludairig from the enormous variety and the magnificent quality of the materials, It is quite evident
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carrying out the Instructions given him by
Mr. Lloyd.
We are showing upwards of 1000 Imported HA.T3 and BONNETS, suitable for all ages, at such
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN OUR LACE DEPARTMENT, we are second to none In the colony, for the variety is astonishing
and prices are so much less than we have ever had to ask at any other time.
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible shade and width, at cutting prices, tot
best qualities only.
IN OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind.
The leading speciality Is 270 dozen REAL GRBNNOBLB KID, usually sold at 4s. 9d. per pair, In
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, 3s. 6d. per pair, post free 2d. extra
Also 390 dozen in light and daik tan, with heavy black stitching, four buttons, only 8s. 0d. per pair, pos j
free for Sd. extra.
In the Ladles’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London priced
BOSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
Hon. Wm. Taylor, Boston,
Our late senator, and now of the Board of Health,
“After three months’ use of the Cuticura
ISmolvbnt, the new blood purifier, internally,
and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the great skin
cures, externally, and twelve years of as constant
suffering from scrofulous humour of the face,
nook, aud scalp as was ever endured, I can say
that I am cured, and pronounce my case the most
remarkable on record. I have been so elated wlthmy
Success that I have stopped men on the street who
were afflicted, and told them to get the Cuticura
Remedies and they would cure them.”—Boston
Herald.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offerd, Hatter, 663 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
The proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps has
succeeded in making a spirit which Is appreciated
by the whole world.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CSLjSBSATSD
BISCUITS AHD CUES, TREACLE AHD SOLDER STEEP,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
Me- FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
0. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-1.
Sydney Agentst V. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
Bloodthirsty William Bede.
A London Jingo journal, referring in terms
of praise to the formation of our Soudan Con-
tingent, makes this thunder- striking assertion:—
** The number of volunteers reached 00 times the
required strength of the force.” You have done It
at last, Dalleyl We knew you would. There Is not
iiow, we will venture to assert, a corner In Europe
In which the Impression is not prevalent that
N.8.W. Is populated chiefly by lunatics. It would
be a miracle If they were. A few verses to you—we
believe you are credited with having rather a fine
ear for verse—on this same subject:—
Call back your Agent-General I
There’s bow no use for him;
You’ve saved his salary at least
By your expensive whim.
Nogorgeoup statistics now
will make the poorest roam,
For who would come out here to light
While he could fight at home ?
When round us rolled this wave of war
You took It at the flood—
You were a quiet little chap.
Whence came this thirst for blood ?
Why, we can recollect you when
You trifled with the Muse,
And found a mild excitement too
In writing of reviews.
Yes, we can well remember, Bill,
Tour manner, proudly-meek,
What time you saw your praises sung
In print six times a week.
You beamed to see each well-worn phrase
Come forth In due sequence,
Your *’ scholarly and graceful style,
Your “ brilliant eloquence.
You knew that all the Press was pledged
(Most all) your name to puff 1
What devil whispered In your ear
That this was not enough ?
Your head’s, like Cresar’s, bald atop.
Did this arouse your pride ?
You should have recollected his
Was only bald outside!
Who would have dreamt six months ago—
Six short months, and no more—
That such a mlld-faced little man
Would hunger so for gore 1
While we believed you did alone
, At clastic fountains slip.
And chiefly muse on problems deep
Of subtle statesmanship.
Can it be possible that you—
The thought our visage pales—
In secret read Ned i Kelly books
And Penny Pirate tales ?
Did you deceive us from the first ?
(This thought Is truly gall 1)
Oh, can It be that you are but
A Fat Boy after all?
6ut you have gone and done It, Bill 1
. Ybu poor, unlucky elf!
You’ve settled for your country, and
Fom’w settled for yourself!
Yet stay I There are more wars than one,
Tour palato need not cloy,
Consult your alter ego. Bill,
The Manly Little Boy.
There’s war In South America,
And trouble in Tonquln,
And battles In the 0 imeroons,
Fine free fights to be in.
Arouse! Let pallid nations know,
And, knowing, let them quake.
You’ve gone into the butcher-trade,
No dashed-and-blanked mistake.
Know that you keep eight hundred men
Hager for ev’ry fight;
Bight hundred men upon the wharf
A-waltlng day and night.
So, when you die, a pilgrim crowd
The Manly boats will brave,
And Journey from afar to place
Sardlne-tlns on your grave.
The epitaph whereon will be
Touching and simple—this
Lord Byron’s line on Castlereagh
(Which here would sound amiss- Ed. B.).


QTUDY ECONOMY
CT and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume*- Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
>hy their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
'"KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food A Ice Co., Limited, .
Head Office 21 Harbour-street
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
UMBRELLAS
P.i&©VE5liL
me
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
anyphysician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
Instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.—London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- Mril
•ociation, of Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter M t A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Theauthormay TliX/OITI P
be consulted on all diseases requiring I H I ullP
•kill, secrecy, and experience. tl-
ASTIi# Softs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD NEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
* £1® beBt known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
b.?» ALGIA » headache, toothac j.e,
KAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. 8CALP3, &c- and
««lnteruaHy cures DIARRHOEA, DYSEfi virfRY,
•kamps, COLIC, and all other xuttmu aches
Pains. ____________
3/- Sold Everywhere,
Q. E. MOULTON, sole propixtor,
Melbourne and x . dney,
PAINT
Marshalls
i*
ONIC NERVINE
CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ne
ApnetfNervousness, Indigestion, ]
ComniLi^J p ®. Hial8 Disorders, Liver and Kldnt
,T ital Power > &<3 - By its ton
for Al^r,vT^i R *£<*** 11 f '" ce removes all oravlE
othernn i*?, I 1 ' m Phosphorous at
elements, MARSHALL
the nourishes and gives vigour 1
106 *ud consulting Chemists. M i
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
K 6 i FACUE CURA {5S5?
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or LoeaL
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults; and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
Seneral stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
ydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy p
T6 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
T3HY8ICIAN8’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
JT pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indlarubber Goods, Ladles’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always In stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABIEL. M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 J
BTDNET.
•WT HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
“ Either for Cash or Timb Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
REMEDY FREE.
ful Errors. Early Decay. Lti
WEAK MEN,
Suffering from Youth-
’.rrors. Early Decay, Dost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Keif Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
VKNETTA WALtX
, 7** Air to ht wed mar km. Otnours Covrtnia.
mm
cantab JA
Pod
ted.
TTST’ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
IV of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
■■Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
.Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
and Brass Band Music, in variety.
3>New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygrapb, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
william~¥ullard,
342 GEORGE STREET.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Feifect Fit aiH Mastication.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARI8IENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
BSTAYMAKER,
EGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET EAST.
ODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a varied Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated Bmrllsh
makers.
‘I® 81 ™ 8 to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the folio wins: Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
r^“ik?^ 0 ar5f^T ND ..* SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; CHAS. OSBORNE A
vOt) London. % ,
m ls ? AGENT for the eminent firm of
BOSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kl A n n n 0f Sportsmen's Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georga-st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS Si Co., London.
Sole Air ante for Heldaleok & Co„
E V b E h R o T u B l°duse [ PE'M'PiT »T
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VI.CTOEIA FLOUR MILL.
SSI C! cor ire-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS’’ VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughput
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
3
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).!’^;
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have au*>
cceded in combining these nutritive substances into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilablt
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and MUk has the following advantages over the Plain OH and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combination
with condensed (digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation. It will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally In the duodenum ; consequently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach. The Oil and Milk In Peptonized Cod LivSr
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 8rd.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming principles found In
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It Is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent, or
best Cod Liver Oil, and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo In our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as In
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the mest pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
Introduced, It being already digested, It may be retained on the weakest stotnach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPHITE8 OP LIME ANti
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing 1 Co., Liu., 24 and 25 Hart-at., Bloomubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros.. Sydney; B. Prosser & Co., Sydney; Felton. Grl
wade, & Co., Melbourne; Hooke, Tompsltt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdln & Sainsbury, Melbourne; P.
Fauldmg & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane; fan
Bros. & Co., Brisbane: New Zealand Drug Co„ Brisbane. w,
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Roba Makars.
Trousers from 31s. to 40s.
iar N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Cb.
W. Sheaksbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llano
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. Pirst-olMsStobhng 0
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
B VLgrgrios!
/
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES.
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


AN OC lOGBN ARI AN’S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen, —It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief!
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend It.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 61. per bottle.
Insist upon having the genuine Schnapps,
which bears the name “ Wolfe’s Schnapps ’’ on
the label.
The hair is frequently rendered prema-
turely gray by care, grief, delicate health, lowne?*
of spirit, or a depressed tone of the vital powers.
The use of Hall's Vegetable Sicilian Haib-
Renewbr will restore its youthful colour and
beauty.
Yam regrets! How many there are in this
place suffering With disease who look back with
the deepest regret upon the time and money they
have thrown away in trying new remedies, !only
to find themselves deceived. Take our advise, all
Is not lost;use BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA and
PILLS, they contain a great and reliable curative
power.
Mb. DeCoubot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
'Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Export, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, mr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 0T" Land Titles, Mr. Browne *
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pltt-st., Sydney, N AW.
The gates of all the marts of the world are
open to Wolfb’s Schnapps, because it Is the
purest spirit known.
Family Wine* and Spirits, of reliable
Quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
CIO., 143, Pitt-street.*
Every year Wolfe’s Schnapps gains in
favour with a d'seeming public, while other
liquors are cast into oblivion.
OFFICIAL OFFENCES.
The general public are not aware of the
crimes perpetrated from year to year under ,the
pretext of saving society or curing the criminal.
From arrest on suspicion of larceny in a crowd to
execution for having deprived a fellow-creature
of life, the prisoner’s rights are very often out-
raged. Some may think that rights are luxuries
to which a prisoner has no claim. But law deter-
mines how much he loses by the commission of
an offence, and all he is made to lose beyond that he
has a right to charge to official blundering or offi-
cial crime. Not long ago a 8y dneysollcitor described
for the benefit of the Comptroller of Prisons two
oases that had come under bis notice, and that
may be taken as types of minor official offences. A
young man was thought to have picked a pocket
on a Saturday night in King-street, and was placed
in the Central Police lookup. He was kept from
Saturday night till Monday in a cell with sick and
drunken men, night-buckets, profanity, and other
abominations On Monday he was honourably ac-
quitted. Again, a client applied for and obtained
a remand. He was sent to Dariinghurst Gaol, but
while waiting for trial had to spend 33 hours out of
every 24 in his cell. There can be no doubt that
these are violations of rights which the individual
has not lost until he is convicted. It is every-
body’s business to consider this. Under any police
system it mav come an Innocent man’s turn to be
arrested on suspicion. Under the system we en-
joy the turn is likely to come any day. There are,
however, graver outrages than these. These are
official offences the victim may survive. But as
there are capital outrages effected by the individual
against society so there are capital outrages effected
by the officials of society agalnstindivlduals. With
a swoop all rights are wiped away, and the victim
is buried. The Assizes are still held in Denlliquin.
The murder average keeps well up to the mark.
Let Cordlnl lie. There rises before us as we write
the vision (suggested by an ex-prisoner's letter) of
a victim that swung from the gallows there a
Jrear or two before. Ho was a poor, miserable
ittleman, with stunted body and stunted brains.
Those acquainted with him called him an idiot. A
little child of three years threw a stick at his hut
one day. Tester, for the idiot was known as Tester,
rushed at the child, and in his anger killed it.
Local excitement was great. In the midst of it
Tester was tried. The legal defence was insanity.
Tester was tested. He was told to stand
steady. He stood steady, very steady, with arms
folded and eyes shut. The gaol doctor asked ques-
tions. Tester refused to answer. Then he
answered irrelevantly. “He is quite saue,’’ de-
posed the doctor at the trial. Another doctor
inspected the poor idiot. “Open your eyes, open
your eyes,” cried he. Tester would not open them.
“ He is quite sane,” deposed the second doctor,
after an enquiry—made, we suppose, to the best of
his ability. There was a warder called—only one
warder—who said he thought Tester was sane.
There was a head-warder in the gaol who knew
something. Why was he not called ? There were
fellow-prisoners capable of telling something
about the idiot’s habits. Why was not one of
these called? Yet, on the evidence, such
as it was, the idiot Tester was convicted and
sentenced. In due time, he was given up to
“Nosey Bob,” the noseless executioner. It is
well, wherein the end bad to come, that Tester
was an idiot. This extravagance of deformity,
this exaggerated Qullp, this red-eyed, long-armed
horror came into the cell where the poor little
idiot stood in stupid abstraction, and, with his
mouth split open, apparently in prospect of
approaching vlee, cried, “Now, Tester, your
time’s come!” Little Tester was led out, still
in idiotic abstraction. His pinched face was
pallid, his weak eyes unsteady; some spark
of the awful scene was apparently reaching
his withered brain. He was led up to the scaffold.
The rope was fastened round the thin neck, Nosey
Sob accompanying the work with “Hech, beeb,
eoh, hech I” Poor little idiotic Tester 1 Did his
intellect awaken in these last moments ? Did he
hear the throbbing of an outer world with which
bis own pulse kept time ? Did be remember lucid
days in the past when he dreamed of love and
lived with hope? Did he recall, as if a Hash of
lightning lit up the jungle of his past career, how
he had been carried about from place to place in
.the last months, been asked questions he could not
understand, forced to face tribunals he did not
know the meaning of, and to hear judgments that
told him nothing ? And did he, while his tottering
intellect struggled to comprehend the dense
array of solemn events, see in front of the
Shingled but, the blood of a little girl that
had irritated him, and, looking around for some
lace to cry out to, did the Cerberus of the Gallows
turn up his fractured, mutilated countenance, and
cry again, “Hech, hech.” The bolt was drawn,
the drop fell, and the idiotic little Tester went
through! With all Nosey Bob's assurances, how-
ever, he took some time to “ cook ” The rope was
badly adjusted, and the idiot, thus lightly pro-
nounced sane, kicked in the air for many, many
minutes. Here is an instance of official outrage
against the individual. The evidence of an ordi-
nary meoloal practitioner is unreliable in a
oase liko this. Special study and special observa-
tion must be present, or the medical man will
make bigger blunders than the Jay companions of
the patient. Late revelations at home, as well
as out here, show that the study of mental
disease is a specialty. The various com-
missions on lunacy, the records of the Forbes-
Winslow and other recent cases, the psychological
researches of Dr. Carpenter—whose book is or
should be in everyone's hands—and various other
easily accessible sources of information, prove
the happy-go-lucky, or unlucky, methods of the
general practitioner utterly useless in a case of
serious doubt as to the sanity of a criminal.
One surgeon, who said be considered Tester sane,
pronounced another prisoner to be sane, who,
when released, went straight to the Edwards
River and drowned himself. A post mortem ex-
amination revealed an abscess on his brain. Some-
times the official mind takes shelter behind the
Jury. It produces lots of apparently sound evi-
dence, but evidence which well-informed men de-
cline to accept as final, and filling the aver-
age jury up with this pseudo-scientific babble,
it says, when an insane man Is banged, “ We
confided the case to a jury.” This defence is un-
generous to the Jury, and an attempt to blind the
public. The average juryman cannot value causes
until he has the effects. It is when he finds bis
verdict bangs a man he is fully conscious of its
tremendous importance. Samuel Fox, a half-caste,
was tri.d in Denillquln on a charge of attempted
murder. A verdict of guilty was returned, and
sentenco of death passed. Immediately after one
of the jurymen went into Wilmore's Hotel and
sold “I’m d d if I'd have said guilty if I’d have
thought they’d hang him, for t did not think he
was guilty." .... In the case of Tester the
medical evidence, though given bona-fide, was
from our standpoint scientifically worthless; the
evidence of experienced warders was not solicited,
and the evidence of those who associated with
him in prison was not sought. Tester had a right
to the best scientific and the fullest evidence
throughout. Tester’s case is one of a class.
We found this article on a letter received
from an ex-prisoner. The letter is too hideously
realistic to print. But with the terrible
scene our correspondent has witnessed apparently
breaking in upon him when he wrote be exclaims,
“ If I have to dance on nothing some day, surely I
can claim that the last person I see shall have the
face of a man, or at least the nose of a man! ” In
an age professing to have risen from among the
barbarous shows of the early days, when spectacles
of torture delighted the uncivilised mind, If pun-
ishment be inflicted, the Infliction should be
stripped of the accompaniments that sicken and
horrify.
The Rev. 0. W. Leadbeater, a Church of
England clergyman, has gone over to Buddhism.
He was converted while voyaging to Ceylon In
the same boat as a Madame Blavatsky. She con-
verted him. Before we commit ourselves to an
opinion on this singular change we would like to
see Madame. If she squints, is old, wrinkled,
scraggy, and wears a wig, then we think Lead-
beater is sincere, and will become a respectable
Buddhist. But if she is young, tall, dark, skittish,
and a reader of “Ouida,” then it’s hard to say
what he’ll become or do. Probably some day, when
the Buddhist High Priest’s back Is turned, bo’ll put
the little god (which is cut out of a single ruby
with diamond eyes and onyx ears) In his pocket and
strike for North Queensland.
The Wiloannia Times man, after delicately
referring to his rival as a “ pariah of the Press.” in
a later Issue continues In this mystic strain “ That
paper, for reasons of its own, took occasion to
abuse the writer, and prefix the well-known gin
Initials, J.D.K.Z., to his name Modesty
is not the characteristic of the Western Grazier,
any more than truthfulness, or It would have hesi-
tated to apply to any respectable man the obnoxi-
ous initials, while everyone at Wllcannia knows
they would be used more in conformity with their
meaning if inscribed on the door of our contempo-
rary with the addition of P.B. and W.I.R.” These
remarks are evidently written In a scornful vein,
but what, in the name of all the fiends, mean these
cabalistic letters—J.D.K.Z.—P.B.—W.I R. ? They
have haunted us, ever since, in an unlucky hour,
we oast our eyes upon the paragraph. Is there
any demoniac meaning In them, or is It only the
jimjams ? We are afraid the Wllcannia Times Is—
to use his own symbolic manner of writing—a
good deal of a M.U.L.E.
The N.8. >V. Inspector-General of the In-
sane reports that at the end of 1884 there were in
theoolony 2524 registered lunatics. (It is to be
noticed en passant that this was before the Con-
tioyoot started.) Of this number 1552 were males
and 072 females. During the year 493 new patients
were admitted to the various asylums; of these
189 were married, 249 single, 28 widowed, and 27
unascertained. An unusual number of “ hatters,”
harmless ” cranks,” and imbecile children were
admitted during ’84. The cause of this is said to be
that the hard times make it a matter of difficulty
for cranks to obtain work, and prompt parents
to surrender their helpless children to the
State. Another reason not noticed in the re-
port is that several country papers faded away
during the year, and their editors had to go some-
where. 182 persons were discharged as cured,
being 36.91 on the number of admissions. The
Salvation Army is credited with some of the oases.
Religious excitement was the cause of insanity
with seven males and 14 females. One attendant
was kicked by a patient, and died from consequent
peritonitis, and another sustained a fracture of
the forearm while holding a violent lunatic. The
cost of maintaing each patien is 12s. 3d. per week.
There is one little thing we would like to know.
It is this: Were the married lunatics insane when
they married, or did they afterwards become so ?
Dr. Manning will perhaps be kind enough to in •
elude this in his next report.
“ Thou shall not covet, ” is a Commandment
that, since the too early decease of Dr. Barry’s
immaculate knights of old, is too often and too
recklessly broken. And Its breach is frequently
attended with disastrous results. This was the
case at Groajingalong once—some years ago. A
pious young man up there had a magpie, which,
by dint of intelligent perseverance, he had taught
to utter cuss-words with the reckless abandon of a
Waterloo bottle-merchant and the artistic pro-
fusion of a back-block bullock-puncher. And one
day some very pious people came to see this young
man, and the magpie, being on Its best behaviour,
was admired exceedingly. One of the ladies, in-
deed, was so charmed with the bird that she asked
for him, and as the owner had taught Mag
all the profanity that a bird is capable of
learning, he consented to part. And in his
new home the bird for 48 hours was a model
of his race, and not a single bad word escaped
him. But It was too good to last. The curate
came to call, and brought some lady friends with
him, and the hostess said she must get her new pet
—it would surprise them. It did. The parson, in
that nice, chatty way that the clergy have made
their own, asked the bird several questions, and
the Immediate and crushing reply was: “You
crimson fool! Shut your gory mouth 1 Go to
vermilion Hades, and —” but even the Voozw
wouldn't print the remainder. Now the parson
and the lady are strangers, the pious young man
gets no “ Invites ” when the Croajtngalong muffins
are on the board, and a homeless, ownerless, out-
cast magpie teaches the Croajingalong children a
lot of new and promiscuous profanity.
An epidemic of rhyming has broken out
in Alexandra (Vic). It has Infected all classes.
From the old man to the Infant, everbody dabbles
or babbles in verse. Even the very dogs bark In
rhyme. The coroner is the only man who has es-
caped the infection—probably, because his time
has been fully occupied attending to his profes-
sional duties since the epidemic came to a head.
The local paper resignedly prints each poem as It
breaks out. Here is a verse or two from an ode
on the “ Queen’s Birthday,” printed in a late issue
of the Alexandra Agoniseb, which will give you
some idea of the virulent character of the new
disease: -
“Of the proud heart of Briton’s (sic), the world-
wide pulsation,
Like far-rolling thunder throbs out through
the air.
Strikes the foot of the Throne with a mighty
oration
Of praise and of save to our Queen great and
fair.”
The bard, you see, opens up bravely enough In
the King Cambysses vein, but the third line flattens
him out, and in the fourth line he (figuratively
speaking) drivels with his beard In the dust. It is
always the way with these bush bards. They start
out full of high aspirations to conquer kingdoms
of song, but (more metaphor) their wall-eyed
Pegasus breaks its legs or gets hamstrung before
it gets its heels thoroughly clear of the stable.
The reflection In the last line upon the weight of
her Majesty we consider quite uncalled for and
almost a species of high treason. “Our Queen
great and fair I” The man must think he is writing
about Harry M’Quade. But that is not all. He
goes on to say that—
“ The kings of the earth at her feet lay new plea-
sures,
Or excited—In peace come to die ’neath her
sway.”
In other words, they hari-kari themselves with
enthusiasm for the British Constitution, like the
Dutch sailor in the American brig, who drowned
himself “for the glory of General Jackson.” Their
example might well be followed by the bard, who
signs himself “Alexandra Rifleman.” If he is
permitted to live till next Queen’s Birthday instead
of again proving his loyalty by his verses, he
8
hould quietly sit down on an ant-heap
Royal Salute of buck-shot Into himself.
The burglary business has come to a 1 o
ebb In Sandhurst, Vlo. It is now, as a mean #
living, almost as precarious, and hardly more
spectable, than country journalism. But it n
quires more genius than the latter. A countrv
Journalist is never utterly at a loss for news a
long as stray cows are not obsolete and prodlglou
cabbages continue to spring up for the intellects
well as physical pabulum of an awe-struc
world. Far other is it with the burglar in ba
times. When the police dog him, and the house-
maids mark him as he takes his bearings over bac
fences; when, with incredible difficulty am
through manifold dangers, he breaks into a houst
to And that it is occupied by an editor, and is com
polled, at the point of a carving-knife, to send on
for an indefinite quantity of beer at his own ex
pense—then it is that the burglar loses selt-respec
and, if not a man of fine mental resources
brightened by a trust In Providence, takes to ev
ways, and peradventure ends by becoming a re-
porter. This is the crucial test. If the burgla
rises superior to his bad luck, and, with a nobl
steadfastness, refuses to earn his living honestly
he at once takes rank in the highest circles of hi
profession. These observations were suggests)
to us by reading a touching paragraph abouti
Sandhurst burglar who went through such ai
ordeal lately, and came out covered with glory
He had been reduced to such straits that he
could only keep one servant, and was compelled t
drink bottled stout instead of claret for dinner
besi 3’s having to dispose of one of his pianos, ant
sub-let his pew in the fashionable church. Wha
did he do then? Let the local paper say:—“Tht
purchase of the old Masonic Hall property fi
Myers-street, by Mr. Bartley, and thesubsequen
decision of that gentleman to take down portioi
of the building, led to a desire being expressed h
several old members of the Masonic body tore
cover the memorials buried with the foundation
stone. Search was made, when it was disooveret
that a thief had not only removed the coins of the
period, which had been deposited in a bottle, viz
a sovereign, half-sovereign, crown, half-crown
shilling, sixpence, threepence, fourpenoe, penny
half-penny, and farthing, but he had also removet
the papers and other documents.” We confesi
that we read this paragraph with an unfamllla
moisture in our eyes. To the unthinking it rnlgh
mean little more than a robbery under somewhat
uncommon circumstances, but to us who coult
read between the lines, it was a poem full o
pathos. .There rose upon our mind’s eye the pic-
ture of the Burglar Household—the mistress in a
turned silk dress playing a sad sonata upon the
one remaining piano, while the one remaining ser-
vant cooked the meagre dinner of roast duck and
green peas. Then the entry of the master, with
care-worn face, but still bravely trying to hide his
trouble from the eyes of Affection. “ Roast duck
and green peas,” he mutters, as he surveys the
table, and then, in a burst of uncontrollable grief
throws his arms around his wife and sobs, “ Ah, my
poor—poor dear, did I marry you to bring you to
this.” Womanlike, she soothes him with loving
caresses, and brings him into a frame of mind not
utterly inimical even to bottled stout. After the
remains of the frugal meal are cleared away she
draws his head upon her shoulder and makes him
by little and little tell her all his troubles. They
are soon told. The banks are all too well guarded
The jewellers’ shops too well watched. Scarce any
money or valuables are kept in private house*.
Out of two safes smashed the preceding night one
contained only account-books and the contents
of the other did not amount to more than a paltry
£5. Of what use is that ? There is tho sealskin
jacket to be bought (there being obstacles to ob-
taining it any other way), the pearl-inlaid dressing-
case, and that quite indispensable pair of Japanese
vases, besides a new carpet for the drawing-room,
not to mention season-tickets for the theatre and
other things. He is despondent, and begins to
mutter wildly about working for his living.
Never,” cries that noble woman, “ never—not
even It I have to wear an imitation sealskin—and
do without the vases—and shut up the drawing-
room—and only go to the theatre twice a week—
never I” He looks at her with tears of pride
in his eyes, but says sadly: “Darling, your
generosity cuts mo to the heart, but even that
will not save us.” “ihen, dearest,” she replies
with a triumphant tear-lit smile, “I can go shop-
lifting.” Put yourself in that burglar’s place, and
fancy what you would do under the circum-
stances. Speak out from your heart now, and tell
us truly would you not descend to labour fora
living ? But not so he ; therefore all the more is
his fortitude and manly spirit to be admired. Not
a word does he say, but pressing his lips tenderly
to her fair forehead and murmuring a blessing on
her as she lies wrapped in gentle dreams goes out
into the gloom and roots under the corner-stone
ot the old Masonic Hall. Will any reader with a
spark of feeling tell us that there is not true pathos
in the picture of that lonely burglar excavating
with pick and crowbar the paltry treasure in order
to buy with it little presents for the woman he
loved? We think not. It Is a touching story. Let
us hope It will touch the Bench when he is
caught.
HOME TOILETTE.
Round skirt in corded fawn-coloured silk, tufted with sage-green terry velvet
wafers. Revers and facing to match. Scarf drapery in striped Vicuna cloth, recalling
the two shades. The striped bodice without basque opens V-shape to display a vest in
fawn-coloured plush to match the double box-pleating on the skirt. The circular
stripes of the sleeves contrast with the perpendicular lines of the bodice.
