

will be fitly represented and celebrated at
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
Novelties
every description are in magnificent abundance, and no stone has been left unturned to make an altogether
unprecedented show of
-OODS.
jj, - ■■—
S°ods are CHOICE, our prices are likewise LOW, and the seeker after EASHION combined with ECONOMY will
his or her end attained by patronising
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
HAYMARKET ONLY.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
-A _
Yes, and the only ones nearer than the great cities of the OLD WORLD. Such are
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
and for the purpose of making UNIVERSAL PROVISION for the good folks of Australia was
S<* o f d t i We > that is, ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS, CLOTHE the people, SHOE the people, and FURNISH the
e^bl e . . le P e °ple. We likewise provide the people with everything that can possibly help to make HOME attractive and LIRE
* 111 act > the PALACE EMPORIUM is nothing if not
The Palace of the People.
*^s3
&
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
PFViNS GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
fST Brass and 801 l Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithicg.
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATE&-WAHTE
PItE V Eli TEES, &c.
Sole Agents for Verily Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls , Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON AGGQRB DORICS, 8 & 8 Hacqaarle Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application.
mm
I
-T
n
A Derangement off the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
ZfcTEESTrOTXiS
S"£“ST:Blv£.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Leoture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR J. HAYDOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great blond maker and blond-purifier of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure it p'ays a moot important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth r,n>' acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is convrrtd into Glucose and Peptone, and in toes'- forms enters the Po'tal vein. H* re, by
the action of the liver,these sunet .nc-s ere converted iuto a form of sugar and piss out of the liver
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into ttw gen* r-.l circu ation. 'I he new material mur termed
serves two purposes, viz ; maintenance of heat tn the body and assisting iu the ce 1 growth ot the
system.
Dr. Murchison says. "The composition of bile and its secretion is v*ry co.api"x. it is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly befoie eating, gradu >l!v . -oro vdos k« *oon as the
appetite is satisfied and fee-dog ceases ” Nov, if this most important organ of the b >d y iwenmes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, «maciati >n and distasv >. .sue. i note eight mar-e.i
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of : -
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowel® by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepm-ss after meals.
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and iurred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache iu front of head.
8. Depression of spirits and great melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-moirow
Ail of the above symptoms go to chow functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
rreat importance of anv error made as to the condition of the patient. He should irn 'y pro-
vide himself witbaLlVtfiK kTIMUL4 NT. the most common f rca of which ia a Pill Duly ex-
perience shows that this, wrmn the Pill is compounded properly, is the read est mode oi inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on 1 have devoted many ye >.rs if
my life, as m my of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill tb«t will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Rome y. Ido a t believe in great purgative®, and th efure have made a P li, one
of which is an active and thorough doeo. 1 have called it
Or. Haddock’s E!sw Liver Pill (Sugvr Qoafssf )
One Fill is a 'Done'. Cno Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of tit© Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pi):
will satisly the most sceptical. \
For Fema'e Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Bick Headache, Dr. Haydo k's New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost al ways be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Pi ice twenty-Five Cents.
FOR BAJL/B til' Alii. DRUGGISTS.
Every PHI is Sugar Coated. If your druvvi t does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad-
ess ot receipt ol 35 cents. Five vials for $l 00 BUY AT ONCE DO NOT DELAY.
CAUTI«N.~To secure the genuine Haydock s Finns, observe that the signature of J. R Franci
Agent lor the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydook’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the2l3 ki da now in the market, ar.v scep-
tic can have a sample bottie sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
l| l| VSk gaa
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 BkOflGH STREET.
WKDDTNGB. BALLB. PICNICS, AND P • RTTKs * SPVCIaU Y
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO H ■.<% M'J "STY H yUi s.V,
281 GEORGE STREET, S* 08«£Y, H * VS ;
Also, at London, Mayence, 1 aius. «j.>i buvx •«.*
tW LABOEST fcTOtlt IIM TB E CC! ONIM,
3<r. rCI'
STAR & GARTER FAMILY IlnrETj,
No. 104 KING BTRLET, SI LnNEV.
rryHIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Fost and Telegraph oame, v t.,
I Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gei tlemt.n. Wi... ■ . 0 , ( Ik'S,
The moat Comlortable and Commodious Private liar m the t fy.
WJ
107 IPitt-street,
CATERER AND CON FECTIONER.
WT LUNCHEON AND RBFBBSHMENT BOOMS FOB LADIES AND GANTLXtIXM.
BIS, ULMERS, anl EL
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKIN3J
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
Importers of
V N A WT? REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACRaJ| B 7
KAlL xTTf^M^ N nu9r^?^ CON J T S^ C TP RB ’ PLANT. AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT*
MIMNG, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBCILDKRB
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o.
BAR. PLATB, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, anc
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
MACOI
«l M
PORTABLJvX?S
and **
GINKS
VERTICAL JRjjp
ZONTAL BOH'”" 0
and
ot** 1
TRAM
PUMPS
L B A H T A H pf&.^ ;
ING, and
MACHINES
JTEAM HAMMER®
ENGINEERS’ B^ v
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROt** 1 ’
SHAFTING
iUICKSILVIR. **
mr Price Lists and Catalogues furnish ad on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse - - - - 54 YORK STREET.
Iron ani Yard - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, irllt
Bulk - - - - - HARBOUR STREET, DARI ’NG HARBOUR
SVDNEY.
London Qfllrt. - . n gßacbohuroh wnumri
Alex. Borthwick. -
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. Uias
2SI Q-eorgre-et-, S'ycLxie'&j;
OFFORD & CO.’S HAI S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
tW* Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Streot.
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts hue custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Llnotus, for coughs, Is.
Claytcn’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, la.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patcaos and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2i. 6 i.
APPLY FOR LIBT, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. BGUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PUT STREET.
Ml
-
1
sa^SS
MARSHALL
133 ELIZABETH ST
■e^tec/
8&
A
iP
MACHINERY.
LARGE STOCKS
, WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
CRANE 5
'ANO
HOISTINC
ENGINE 5 '
lawn
MOWERS'
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES,
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
&c.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER.
SOLE AGENT
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne!
22, KING STREET.
FREE
PRES CRIP riONS p
be found in the “LIGHT
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous 0 f
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A cop"
this book will be sent po6t lr»e, sealed, f° r
p t nnj etanus. Address-
• 8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharaaoy. „
76 Hunter-street, 8/a°w


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 150-New Serlee.
SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1886.
yno«—ea.
Cheap Patriotism.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1886.
'fttui attendance of participants at the St.
Patrick’s Day banquet on Thursday last in
Sydney, contrasted strikingly with the
assemblages for an identical celebration just
three years ago. This year the guests com-
prised a large contingent of the class which
it is customary to allude to in the daily
newspapers as “distinguished,” “leading,”
“influential,” and “representative.” The
gathering was “ brilliant,” the proceedings
“dignified” and “harmonious,” the whole
affair was “creditable.” In all these
respects it offered a striking contrast to the
banquet of 18fe3. Then, “ distinguished,”
“leading,” “influential,” and “representat-
ive” men were prominently absent: the
assemblage was mainly of “obscure” per-
sons, one “public man” who had outraged
the proprieties by countenancing the affair,
was overtaken With liquor and his condition
furnished the daily journals with an oppor-
tunity for demoting columns of space to his
misdeeds, and for stating that this was just
What might have bean expected under the
Circumstances.
* * *
If one searches for a concrete definition of
the fundamental difference between the
two celebrations, it will be found in this —
That the banquet of Thursday last was
Utterly without significance; whereas, the
banquet of 1883 was fraught with strong
find definite portent. Hence, follows the
Strange inference that the “distinguished”
gathering on the recent occasion was of in-
significant persons, whereas the assemblage
of “nobodies” on the earlier celebration
was one of significant persons. Despite the
singularity of that distinction, we believe it
to be abs olutely correct. By recalling the
history of the St. Patrick’s Day of 1883, and
of the period immediately preceding that
anniversary, we expect to be able to convey
our belief in this matter pretty clearly to
our‘‘readers, A very short time prior to St.
Patrick’s Day, 1883, Mr. J. E. Redmond,
M.P., had arrived in Sydney as an accredited
, emissary from Mr. Parnell and the Irish
1 Land League. He was accompanied by his
\ brother William Redmond, now also a
member of the House of Commons. These
i two gentlemen were entrusted with the
i duty of obtaining subscriptions in support of
i the League, and their method was by visiting
rail centres of population, and delivering
'lectures explanatory of the objects and
of the league. But immediately
iprior to their landing ia New South Wales,
intelligence had been received by cable of
the assassination of Lord Fbedk. Caven-
dish and Mr. Burke, in the Phoeaix Park,
at Dublin. The cable intelligence, proceed-
ing, as it always has done, from agencies
and establishments which are the mouth-
pieces of the London capitalist and
stock-jobbing classes, was a selection of
the most sensational suppositions and
icanards with which the air of the English
metropolis was quivering at the time. The
of the erime was ascribed to
the Land League. Intentions to arrest Mr.
iPARNELLand other prominent Parliamen-
tary leaders of the Irish were wired out.
The proud silence which these leaders
-opposed to the hysterical cries which
assailed them from every side was alleged
to be equivalent to a confession of guilt.
Such was the tenor and tone of the cable
advices published daily by the papers—re-
flecting faithfully enough the wild-
est ravingfl of the capitalist organs of
London, but without the qualification
burnished by th® extracts from Irish
Nationalist papers which were available to
English readers—that the arrest of the
Irish Parliamentary leaders, on aprima facie
demonstration of their connection with the
“Invincibles” was expected in Australia
every hour. The daily newspapers here also,
without exception, lost their heads, and their
ravings so aggravated the alreadysufiflciently
exaggerated false colouring of the cabled
items, that the reading public was carried
away almost in a body. It was almost im-
possible for any man, unless he were either
an Irishman who truly loved his Lative
country, or a Briton just as firmly devoted
to the cause of truth and justice without
distinction of races and creeds, to keep a
balanced mind. Among all the newspapers
of Australia The Bulletin stood, we be-
lieve, alone in stemming the flood of excite-
RICHARD BELT.
Sculptor and Swindler.
ment and the torrent of false inferences. It
was at that time that we wrote as follows,
and we quote with some pride an utterance
which it then required the courage of our
convictions to publish, which imperilled the
popularity and fortunes of our paper, and
which subsequent events have so thoroughly
justified
“ These considerations are ample to impress any
fair man with the propriety of at least suspend-
ing j idgment respecting the responsibility of the
Land League leaders. But th<ir drift is amply
corroborated by antecedent facts. It is incontro-
vertible that these leaders did from the formation
of the league publicly dsnounce violence of all
kind. This may have been a blind, but that sup-
position is not endorsed by facts. It is true, that
until these leaders were imprisoned and their
organisation suppressed, crime aud outrage were
at a minimum, and that the suppression of their in-
fluence was followed by overwhelming evidence
that thrir power had been used to restrain, inas-
much as murder stalked through their unhappy
country from the day they were no longer able to
exercise control. It is true that they had no sooner
come to an understanding with Mr. Gladstone’s
Government, and prepared to inaugurate a system
of mutual concessions and conciliations, than
their pirns were shattered by these assassinations.
It is true that they instantly denounced and
lamented the occurrence, and not only offered re-
wards for the discovery of the assassins, hut, in
moviDg terms, arraigned them as the worst ene-
mies their country had yet suffered from. Surely
no newspaper reader can have so soon forgotten
that in almost every quarter-certainly in every
unprejudiced quartcr-the view was unhesitat-
Ingly adopted, that there existed a party of irre-
concileable?, bitterly hostile to the moderate
counsels of Mr. Parnell and his associates, who
had chosen the desperate but effectual means to
frustrate his designp, and to make rt conciliation
between the Biitish Parliament and the Irish
people impossible. It cannot surely be forgotten,
that there were current as many rumours of Mr,
Parnell's life beiDg threatened by the desperate
section, as there were of Mr. Forster’s danger.
When these points are duly weighed and deli-
berately pondered, reasonable people will per_
ceive that they would be untrue to their man-
hood, were they to permit themselves to be hur-
ried to premature conclusions by the misrepre-
sentations of professing counsellors, who have
shown that they can neither control their tempers
nor manage their reasonirg faculties when their
prejudices are roused.”
Mr. J. E. Redmond, M.P., was, when that
was published, already in Sydney. He had
been denied the hospitalities ordinarily ex-
tended to gentlemen of his birth and posi-
tion. He had delivered a first address or
lecture, bravely and logically expounding
and defining the principles and objeots of
the liish Parliamentary Party and of the
Land League. This address had been elo-
quent in manner and deliberate and mea-
sured as to its matter. But it had been
metaphorically hooted down by the daily
Press, the Sydney Morning Herald espe-*
cially distinguishing itself by attributing to
the lecturer the passions which its own
columns betrayed to be agitating its own
conductors. It charged Mr. RedMond with
being “saturated with passion and exagge-
ration” and “hot with human hate.” A
more accurate definition of the condition of
the Herald’s own mind, aud of the inflam-
mation to which it and the other dailies had
wrought up the unthinking among colonists
need not be desired. It seemed more than
any public journal’s circulation was worth
to publish words of reason at this epoch,
such as The Bulletin poured out issue
after issue. It seemed more than a public
man’s position was worth to openly counte-
nance Mr. Redmond.
* * *
And here we come to the pith of the
matter. When the young Irish patriot
stood on the platform to deliver his lecture,
he stood almost unsupported. Of all the
members of our Legislature who had crawled
into place by pretences of devotion to “the
dear Green Isle,” not one was shoulder to
shoulder with this combatant in the hour
of stress and trial. Men who had never
failed to distinguish themselves by their
prominence on every stage where mock
patriotism had to be acted, were conspicu-
ous by their absence, now when their
presence would have been of real value, but
would have involved them in sacrifices and
perils. Those maggots which writhe and
revel in the corruption of complimentary
banquets to humbugs, and which emerge
as butterflies to flutter vainly when
the sun shines, had grovelled deep
down into the earth and were in semis-
torpid terror, quivering with apprehension*
lest they should be dug up and forced to
exhibit. Those well-known varieties—the
picnic-bug and the banquet blow-flies—
were securely sheltered in some obscure
crack or crevice. One Irish member of our
Legislature indeed was in the vicinity of
the platform. Mr. Redmond apostrophised
him and described his situation to the at-
tentive multitude as “ skulking behind the
curtain.” The skulker thus indicated did
not emerge. He did not step forward either
then, or so long as Mr. Redmond remained
in Australia, publicly to announce that his
situation had been misapprehended, and
that he was ever willing, nay feverishly
anxious, to lay down his—well, his seat in
Parliament, for the cause. And when St.
Patrick’s Day, shortly following, arrived,
and Mr. Redmond was invited by its pro-
moters, the seats at that banquet were
occupied and unoocupied very nearly in
keeping with the chairs on the platform at
Mr. Redmond’s meeting.
* * *
At that banquet there was no eloquent
Dalley to pour forth a limpid stream of
meaningless elegancies. The Ministry was
not there represented by several members
to blather the average commonplace of
post-prandial declamation. Members of
Parliament were few and mostly shrinking
into their boots. There was no place on
that occasion for blather-skites and wind-
bags. It was, in a small way, an hour of
trial and of action, and as will surely happen
again should such an hour strike for this


community, the babblers and impostors—
the men who live by their country as distin-
guished from the men who live for it and
would die for it—had shrunk out of sight,
and had been replaced by the men in
earnest, the men of principle, the men of
action. Henry Copeland was there. He
went thither despite the remonstrances
and threatenings of his colleagues. He
took his portfolio in his hand, and, alas!
instead of losing it nobly, a personal weak-
ness of a moment operated to make him
lose it in shame. But his shame was nobility
when contrasted with the deliberate and
natural depravity and meanness of the
mock Liberals who kept away owing
to self-interest, and the cheers which made
the walls resound on Thursday last when he
arose again in the same place testified that
his manly courage was not forgotten while
his social slip was more than condoned.
These cheers had a hearty ring in them very
different from the conventional applause
whioh greeted the hollow oratory of
the fair-weather politicians who sought
prominence on this safe occasion. And J.
G. O’Connor was prominent on both occa-
sions, and must have enjoyed the honours
which were paid to him with a whole
heart. But the maggots—their petty
souls must have wriggled in pain and shame,
as they rose to mouth their vapid unmean-
ing sentences, with the certain conscious-
ness that to every thoughtful person who
heard them, their very presence and pro-
minence was a revelation of the fickleness
of their disposition, and the spuriousness of
their mock heroics.
* * *
Lovers of liberty may feel the comfor-
table assurance that the just claims of the
Irish people are now near to being satisfied.
The indications are apparent. The very
claims which but three years ago Mr. Red-
mond was howled at by all the mock-
loyalists and Tories of New South Wales for
demonstrating, are now adopted by Mr.
Gladstone and his adherents. These claims
and these arguments, then foamed at as
disloyal and scandalous and not-to-be-
listened-to, are to-day soberly adopted as
mere matters of universal acceptability
The very men who were hissed at as deserv-
jng of the hangman's attentions, have
brought their ideas almost to the point of
realisation. Parnell and Redmond stand
on the same platform with Gladstone and
Granville, not because Parnell and
Redmond have recanted, but because
the Liberals of Great Britain have
been, by their courage, persistency, and
address, forced to recognise the soundness
of their arguments and the justice of their
cause. But the surest indication is this
creeping out of vermin to share the beams
of favouring fortune which shine on the
prospects of justice for Ireland. Yet let
Australians, who love liberty for her own
dear sake—who care not whether the appli-
cation be to Ireland or Poland, Egypt or
Arabia—take heed. Let but a cloud again
obscure the sun. Let the cause of liberty in
relation to Irish or Fellahs, to Russian serf
or Polish patriot, become but once more
unfashionable and fraught with social dis-
advantage and political risk, and the mag-
got-brood will crawl back once more to the
rotten and [corrupt warmth of more com-
fortable situations.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Power to declare War.
THe motion in the House of Commons by Mr
RICHARD, member for Merthyr Tydvil, “ That war
Shall not be declared, or a treaty concluded with
any foreign power, nor territory be annexed by
the British Government without the sanction of
Parliament was, according to cabled advices, re_
jected by a majority of si* votes only. It is a
pity that the numbers of votes for and against
had not been telegraphed. A majority of six
may signify much or little, according as
it represented the balance of opinion in a full
llouse, or in a small division. Mr. Richard i 3,
if we recollect aright, one of those members of
Parliament who are regarded as “ faddists ”—a
designation which is applied equally to persons
who advocate impracticable whims, and to earnest
men who concentrate their minds and efforts upon
the realisation of some progressive measure, the
utility and value of which their generation is not
prepared to recognise. The members of the Peace
Society—a body which exerts itself to bring about
the Divine “fad" of “Peace on earth, good will
towards men ’’—are reckoned as “ faddists ” of the
most ludicrous sort, and Mr. Richard is, we
think, a prominent member of that society. It is
probable, therefore, that his motion would be
treated superciliously, and just sufficient mem-
bers kept in attendance to defeat the votes likely
to be secured for the motion. Intrinsically, how-
ever, the purport of the motion is extremely
momentous. It is an attack upon the Constitution,
In the direction of stripping the Sovereign of the
most important among the few personal attributes
of power now remaining to the occupant of the
Throne. In practioe this power of declaring war,
concluding peace, or entering upon treaties,
has never been exercised by the Sovereign
of his or her own motion since the Revolu-
tion. The Cabinet for the time being has
in this, as in other respects, assumed sovereign
functions. But the power is none the less personal
and capable of destructive abuse. It remains
always a menace to the prosperity and repose to
the nation, and is liable to being employed at any
time for the suppression of the growth of liberty
in other countries. Thus, for instance, at the out-
set of the first Frenoh Revolution, the peoples of
almost every European nation were in fullest
sympathy with the people of France. But the
right of peace and war being in the hards of their
sovereigns, they were impotent to prevent the
monarchical coalition which aimed at the sup- I
pression of national aspirations in France. And, j
once at war, the spirit of combat is easily aroused
and kept glowing, It is in that last characteristic
that the mischief lies. We have had an example
of it in our own experience. It was this sovereign
authority to which Mr. Dalley, a nominee mem-
ber of a non-representative Chamber had the in-
solence to usurp when he plunged New South
Wales into a war with which the colony tad no
concern, and which was waged in violation of
every principle due to men of liberal and human
ideas. Once the first step was was no
chance of retirement. Excitement seized, as it
always does in such cases, the thoughtless and
reckless. The air resounded with martial clamours,
and he who counselled reflection, and dwelt upon
the principles outraged was liable to be howled
down as a compound of coward and traitor. But
when there is preliminary deliberation—when the
community is pledged to nothing and opportunity
given of weighing the propriety, wisdom,
and justice—with the contrary of a step
so serious, ail the inflammatory symptoms
are reduced in intensity. Had the people ,
of Great Britain been duly represented*
and the right of peace or war vested in
Parliament when the French threw off their
tyrannical form of Government, it is al-
most certain that England would have
had uo place in the coalition against
France; and had the people of the continental
states been similarly potent, there would have
been in all likelihood no coalition at all. The
French Committee of Public Safety would never
have been forced into existence, there would have
been no Reign of Terror, and Europe would have
been spared the thirty years’ wars of the Directory
and of the Emp’re. Casuists have urged that by
investing the Sovereign with the right of declar-
ing war, &c., a nation is benefltted. The advan-
tages of promptitude, of deceit ever are thus
secured. This argument is worth something. If
it could be shown that ultimate victory invariably,
or even generally, has been secured by the nation
which started a war with the preliminary advan-
tage on its side of surprise, it would be difficult to
reply directly to that contention. But history
has so convincingly shown that the spirit and
resolution of a people constantly wrest victory
from defeat, that this argument is worth little.
It is tolerably sure, that it will not be very
long before the people of Great Britain will insist
upon carrying iato effect the little resolution
which has been for the moment delayed by a
majority of six.
+
A D scriminating 1 'Whip.
The London correspondent of the Sydney Even-
ing News announces that, strange as it may
appear, it is regarded as a distinction for a mem-
ber of the House of Commons to be selected by the
Whip of his party to interrupt a speaker on the
other side. This is introductory to a statement
that Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has been
so selected, and did, in fact, interrupt the Hon.
Joseph Chamberlain in the House. “ So that,”
writes this hireling correspondent, “ Mr. Heaton’s
debut must be considered quite a success I” We
conceive that there is a confusion of ideas here.
The correspondent has not recognised the differ-
ence between " a distinction ” and “ an honour.’*
There are various subtle variations in the sense
which may be attached to the word “distinction ”
a man may be distinguished by grand or by mean
qualities. The idea conveyed to most people by
the incident re’ated by this literary valet of Hen-
niker Heaton's, will probably be that at last
the Conservatives are beginning to comprehend
the quality of his aptitudes, and that they select
him as a fit and ready tool for dirty work. Con-
ceive the shame and rage of an English gentle,
man at being Invited to commence his Parliamen-
tary career, by an act of insolence and ill-breeding ;
We should look forward with interest to the de-
velopment of Mr. Heaton's usefulness. We ex_
pect soon to be told that he has been further dis_
tinguished by being selected to crow like a cock
in the middle of one of Mr. Gladstone’s speeches
or to bray like an ass in reply.
Piety and Clarendon Stuartism
Sect arian bigotry has not yet died out in Aus
tralia— Clarendon Stuart is still alive. He took
it upon himself last week to write to the Sydney
Daily Telegraph for the purpose of showing
that “ insinuating a Presbyterian minister Into a
Church of England pulpit Is ... to us church-
men a very important affair indeed,” and closed
his attack by grandiloquently remarking that
“ the Church of England has nothing to gain but
everything to lose by contact with Dissent.” We
do not intend to discuss hero any question of
“ apostolic succession” or other dogma, or to de-
cide whether the Presbyterian Church is, to use
the exquisitely charitable words of Clarendon
Stuart, ” the most bitterly schismatical body that
can be conceived,” we merely wish to express our
doubt whether the religion of Jesus Christ could
by any possibility include any of the haughty,
snarling, grasping sects of modern alleged Chris-
tendom—in fact, we very much doubt whether He
would not be rejected by the sects on account of
his lamentable unsoundnes3 of doctriae. And
here we come to the core of the trouble. The
essence of modern sectarian religion is doctrine
Each Church holds out a salvation programme,
promises everlasting happiness to all who sign P,
and threatens eternal destruction to all who be-
lieve in any contrary tenets. This fact is some-
times feebly denied, but the proof is clear. If
these dogmas are not necessary to salvation why
are there any sects at aff ? If the future can
be provided for by holding other doctrines,
why insist on these? The justification of
the existence of any church is the absolute
necessity of adherence to its dogmas, a
necessity usually stated in the most harsh and
uncompromising fashion. The Church of Eng-
land, for instance, flourishes her Athanasian
creed, (written three centuries after the death of
its reputed author,) as a caution to her adherents
and a condemnation to the rest of the world.
This interesting document begins thus: “Whoso-
ever will be saved, before all things it is necessary
that he hold the Catholic faith and proceeds to
describe that faith with all the casuistical mystery
which marks the age in which it was written. Its
terms are beyond ordinary comprehension, but
that is not our present point, which Is, the clear
deduction that faith In Its doctrines alone, is the
means of salvation, and the declaration that all
who disbelieve, without doubt, shall perish
everlastingly. No wonder that a church
founded on such a creed has produced
Clarendon Stuarts in all ages. When sanctity
is thus made to depend upon a man’s ability to
split doctrinal hairs, he is the truest churchman
who displays the greatest precision in religious
casuistry, and who most fervently follows his
doctrines by, like them, consigning to eternal
damnation all who dare to think otherwise.
Clarendon Stuart (who was, we think, once at
Gympie, N.Q.) rightly prides himself on being a
churchman: he is, judging from his letter, about
as good a specimen of the result of the study and
practice of church doctrines as it would be pos-
sible to find. It is usually alleged in defence of
church tenets that they are founded on Scripture:
to was slavery, so Is polygamy, as well as all
the numberless and conflicting faiths of all
the creeds of Christendom. The best proof
of the error of modern church teaching is
found by observation of its results. He*
whom all the chuiches boast as their founder*
Inveighed against the accumulators of riches in
the most uncompromising terms, and depicted
Dives who was cast into endless torment, not be-
cause of any actual breach of the commandments,
but, simply as far as can he seen, because he
heaped up riches for himself .and left the beggar
unheeded at his gate—the churches on the con-
trary hold up the rich man as a model for imita-
tion, and the result of such teaching Is, that in
our day the rich are richer and the poor poorer
than ever they have been before. Again, Christ
preached unbounded charity and love—the Chris-
tian world to-day is more sordid and severe than
the majority of communities where the Testament
is never heard of. Worldly enlightenment is
working to improve our social state, and In every
direction its efforts are opposed, not by the Gos-
pel, but by the paid interpreters of it. The dry
stumps cf doctrine are valued and cherished by
our Church systems, while the fair trees of
love, charity, and mercy, drop their leaves be-
cause that cire which they require is denied
them. When the Saviour of the world appeared
he found three seots wasting their strength in
disputing over points of doctrine and neglecting
the real spirit of religion. If He were to come to-
day he would find 40 similar ones, wrangling over
the barren stones of doctrine, forgetful of the
golden virtues which are the very life of religion.
The Pharisees and the Sadducees have their
successors in the churches of this generation.
All Bible-readers detest the errors of those
ancient sects, but only very rarely can they be
made to see, that the crimes of those seots are the
daily practice of our own.
Mu. Abigail has written to the Colonial Secretary
of New South Wales demanding that as Mr. Gab-
van, Minister of Justice, and Messrs. Toohey,
O'Sullivan, and Hogan, Ms.P., were at the
Hibernian banquet when the call for cheers for
the Queen was met with a few groans as well as
cheers, the police should enquire into the
matter, and closes his letter with the fearful
threat of taking other steps when Parliament
meets. It is really very unfortunate for Mr. Abi-
gail that the 9th clause of the infamous Martin
Treason Felony Act is new obsolete, for under it
he could have sent the irreverent groaners up for
two years each—a proceeding that would, doubt-
less, bring immense gratification to the little soul
of the leather-selling loyalist. It may be some
solace to Mr. Abigail to know that the groans
were not meant for Her Majesty, but as a protest
against the intrusion of her name at so mal-
period. If some person calls for cheers
for James 11. at the next Orange celebration we
shall not wonder if Mr. Abigail is the first to in-
timate, by a suggestive groan, that the mention of
such a name at such a time is an unpardonable in-
trusion. Some persons cannot be loyal without
making their loyality offensive. Mr. Abigail
fills the bill in this respect so does the man who
caused the tumult at Botany. In olden times
when a man became religious he seemed to think
it Heaven-sent duty to go and kill somebody of a
different faith. It is much the same with loyalty
now. When it catches on to narrow-minded men,
it forces them to go and insult others who have
not got it so badly. They generally manage the
insult part of the business by joining Orange
lodges, or by calling for cheers for the Queen when
men are shouting themselves hoarse by cheering
Parnell, Redmond, and Davitt.
That clause in the Victorian Shop 3 and Factories
Act which compels the closing of most shops at 7
o’clock in the evening on five days in the week
and 10 o’clock on Saturdays, is provoking bitter
wails from the Conservative Press. The Argus,
of course, leads the claque against what it is
pleased to call “ interference with the liberty of
the subject.” The arguments advanced by this
almighty champion of “liberty” are too puerile
to be amusing. Here is a specimen;—“lt is well
to restate the wholesome principle that Parlia-
ment has no more right to te’l men and women
when they are to buy goods, than it has to tell
them what coloured clothes to wear or what
church to go to.” And this sort of stuff appears
in a paper which favours the strictest Sunday
observance-under Parliamentary compulsion.
Bat, as a matter of fact, the new Act doesn’t tell
the public when they are to buy goods—it merely
tells a small section of grasping shop-keepers when
they are to release their fagged-out assistants. If,
as some of the small fry complain, they can’t get a
living except by keeping open Jate, it were for the
physical benefit of the community that they
should follow seme other occupation. The Argus
has nothing to say about the large drapers in Mel-
bourne’s busiest street who close at 6 o’clock or-
dinarily'and give the Saturday half-holiday. As
far as they are concerned the new Act is one to
prevent their neighbours in the same line from
getting more than 13 hours’ “ pull ” over them per
week. But any restriction of the sacred rights of
capital is hateful to the autocrat’c Argus, and
this Shops’ Act being an “ interference with the
slavery of the subject ” who is not a capitalist is-
in the words of the twopenny oracle—“ an instru-
ment of wrong and oppression.”
Richard Belt, Sculptor—a Rogue of
Genius.
We give a portrait of the remarkable man whn»»
name and quality head this article. The
Belt-L twes case attracted attention all over th
world to the sculptor; who. having been charted
by Mr. Lawes,in a London weokly, with passing
as his own, works which had been designed nnd
executed by needy artists of greater abilitv w
less fame, instituted a suit for libel, and obtained
after a trial characterised by singular contradin
tions of evidence, a verdict for heavy damateo"
The defendant Lawes eluded payment by beonm
ing insolvent, and Belt thus not only failed
seouring the damages allotted to him, but
obliged to disburse the extremely heavy legal «? 8
penses on his side. The directness of the evidennl
for the defence, left, notwithstanding the ennoi
positiveness of Mr. Bolt’s own sworn testimony
and of that offered by his witnesses, a feeling nt
uncertainty as to the real merits of the ph« o
The artistic world was divided on the question
and by a large section Mr. Belt continued to hd
regarded with suspicion. Recently the actual
character of Belt has been fully demonstrated
his conviction on a charge of deliberate swindling
Belt’s scheme had an element of romance in if
He offered from time to time to Sir W. N. Abdv
Bart., fine diamonds, and persuaded the baronet
that he was getting the gems cheap, under excen
tional circumstances. They were, B9lt said the
property of a Mrs. Bolton, or some such name a
lady who had been an inmate of the Sultan’#
harem, and had received the jewels from her im!
perial keeper. The vista thus opened is a
singular one. That the Sultan’s harem i«
periodically replenished with lovely English
women, is pretty well known in certain circles"
In fact there is scarcely an Oriental potentate who'
does not keep a stock of pretty English girls
That the difficulties in obtaining recruits for the
langours and lillies of the harems of wealthy
Orientals need not be insuperable is amply estab-
lished by the disclosures effected by Mr. W T
Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette. When in'the
capital of England a five-pound note will purchase
a;mere child, for vulgarly immoral purposes.it
cannot but be easy to secure young women willing
and even eager, to be lapped in luxury, and to be*
bedizened with the jewellery of a Sultan, a Bey
or a Rajah. Sir W. N. Abdy consequently saw
nothing improbable in Belt's .'story, and bought
from him at various times, diamonds to the
amount of eight to nine thousand pounds. Sub-
sequently, however, it came to his knowledge that
Belt had got the stones from London jewellers
and pawnbrokers at prices much below those
which he charged the baronet. O n this charge, the
sculptor and his brother Walter, who had abetted
were indicted; the latter was acquitted, the former
convicted and sent to gaol, wnere, for a year to
come, he will carve road-metal instead of marble.
Richard Belt’s career has been a singular one. He
was originally educated at the schools of Baroness
Burdett-Coutts in Rochester Row, and then, his
mother being a widow and very poor, he was ap-
prenticed to Messrs. Dry and Sons, mechanical
engineers, when he, then a mere boy, exhibited
his mechanical ingenuity, and made a carriage
spring which was afterwards exhibited at a work-
man’s exhibition. Then he became a messenger
at Messrs. Spottiswoode’s, the Queen’s printers,
and in carrying proofs backwards and forwards to
the House of Commons he got to know members
of that assembly by sight, although he had
not been taught drawing, he was enabled to sketch
the features of those with whom he was thus
brought in contact. About the year 1864 oocurred
a circumstance which fixed Mr. Belt's future
career. In the neighbourhood of the House of
Commons he picked up a stone which had fallen
from the building, and with a nail and the back of
a hair-brush he carved on it a head which he
showed to two or three friends, who were struck
with the power and skill thus exhibited. As time
passed on Mr. Belt made statuettes and busts of
many distinguished persons, including Lord
Beaconsfleld, Mr. Gladstone, the late Charles
Dickens, and Madame Adelina Patti.
THE BATES 01 SUBSCRIPTION tO THE BULLETIN
are—For one year, 81a.; half-year, 18a. 6d.;
quarter, Ba. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Bates are 6s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. Sd. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch,
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods? as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions!
16 per oent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
eent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Ml, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-street, Sydney*
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE n
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Planet.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND_COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
0. E. Jones is the only member of the new
Victorian Assembly who, on the hustings, strongly
dvocated the extension of the franchise to women
B Bucolic art. At a N.S.W. country show the
• ” ’ (jay, a judge ia the “ Fine Arts section” ex-
hibited what he called a water-eolour painting. It
was » coloured photograph....la William-street,
Sydney. Young lady (to ironmonger’s assistant):
Mustering Time.
(DEDICATED TO THE GERMAN ADMIRAL KNORR.)
MR. AUSTRALIA (Squatter): “NOT BAD COMPANY, THAT GERMAN FBLLOW, BUT DEUCED FOND OF CLAPPING HIS BRAND ON TO CLEAN-SKINS. HE SURELY WON’T
GO AND BRAND UP NEW ZEALAND’S CALF, JUST AFTER ACCEPTING MY HOSPITALITY,”
‘l—ah— want a dog collar, please.” Assistant:
"For what sized dog, miss ?—I bog pardon, I
should say—for what sized milk-jug ?”—‘'Well,
and how did you like it while you were in the
Place?” enquired one of the new aides of an ex-
gubernatorial P.S. “Oh, it was giddy while it
lasted,” was the reply—“ nothing but a dream of
ordering white hats, and the people leaving them
without the money.” A Maryborough (Q ) man
has had his lower jaw “knocked off by the kick
rrom a horse.” No more toothache there, any*
how,
• • a
Apropos of the fondness displayed by the
un °° guid for unsavory subjects, the Saturday
Review says—“To the pure all things are im-
pure.” Vlctorien Sardou, the Frenoh dramatist,
was asked by a lady—" Monsieur, why did God
make men ? ” “ Madame,” he replied, “ to keep
the women from assassinating each other.” One
of the conspicuous features on our promenades,
when the sun shines (says a recent ’Frisco paper),
is a tall, noble-looking woman, with the carriage
of a princess, and a profile which once might have
belonged on a cameo. This is Miss Genevieve
Ward.—Humph!.. ..A Yank, was being tried for
murder; he had killed his son with a bung-starter.
His lawyer said there was no chance for him, but
he saw that there were three journalists on the
jury, and so spoke up thus wise:—“l had nothing
agin the ohild, Judge—he was a nice boy, but that
morning I found him out in the woodshed writing
verses, and you all know what ihat leads to." And
he wai acquitted without the jury leaving their
seats A husband can hope to be a hero in his
wife’s eyes only two months—the month before he
is married and the month after his death—
Apropos of Dilke's seeming conversion from his
former red republicanism, Justin M’Carthv says
he now carries his liberty cap crushed under his
arm, like an opera hat “ What are you waiting
for, little boy?” inquired a kindly old gentleman
of a street urchin who was watching each passer*
by intently. “ Waitin’ for a long-whiskered gent
smokin’ a cigar. Then I’ll follow him an’ git the
end.” “Da long-whiskered men smoke better
cigars? * "No; but they don’t smoke ’em so short.”
....“Pa,” said little Mollie Caution, “do deaf and
dumb people go to heaven?’ "Why, of course,
some of them do.” “ Well, it must be just like a
pantomime to sea a flock of deaf and dumb
angels.” A Radioal etymologist has found out
that the stlcking-up cry of the highwayman in
the early days of England was “ Toree, toree I ”
the meaning of which was " Give, give! ” In this
he discovers the origin of the word “ Tory ” as
the name of a party in English politics.... She (to
her bosom friend): "That dress suits you admir-
ably. What a pity the material is so common! ”
Her bosom friend: “Yes; and yours is a spleidid
material; you must be sorry it does not fit you
better! ...At the sack of King Theebaw’s place
a lot of queer things were found—musical-boxes
by the hundreds, mechanical toys by the thousand,
and Anally a chest full of searinas, and another
with indiarubber tips for banies’ feeding-bottles.
Yet King Theebaw had only one wife....
The gentleman who married Miss May Gladstone
is the Rev. Harry Drew, a young clergyman
unknown to fame and many years the lady s
junior Toe joke is not unknown in fic-
tion, and it has often been perpetrated ia
earnest by colonial papers. It appeared in the
London Times a day or two ago: “ The wife of— —
of a daughter; by cable.” Time was when the
resignation of a Ministry troubled Queen Victoria’s
peace exceedingly. She would indulge in “ a good
cry” and seek other feminine means of relief.
Her Majesty is less sensitive nowadays. Like the
rest of us, she grows harder with age Sara
Bernhardt, the light of other days, now succumbs
every night to fainting fits Mrs. Emelie Char-
lotte Langtry, the Jersey Lily, now has, according
to the official records. £35,000 invested in New York
mortgages —At a theatrical wedding, the ques-
tion was twice repeated, “ Who giveth this woman
to be married to this man ?” yet the paternal
proxy still remained silent. Silence was broken
by a guest, ‘Go on, Bill ! Why don’t you go on ?
That’s your cue.”—A N.Z. draper, who is also
superintendent of a Sunday-school has discovered
a cheap way of distributing his handbills. When-
ever he vets up & special sale of shoddy he puts
his placards inside the children’s missionary maga-
zines, and thus saves postage on his circulars. ..
To the new butler: “ Why, John, where did you
learn to carve so well ? ” I used to bo a chiro-
podist, ma’am.”.... An Ashford labourer has been
convioted for stealing a dead pheasant from the
Duke of Edinburgh. His Highness stands con-
viotei of pinching a few thousand English pea-
sants. Pinching peasants is royal, but pinching a
pheasant is a heinous crime.. Five executions
in three days in England last month.
tidily irregularities and weakness can be
remedied by Wolfe’s Schnapps.


Personak
I tems
Another of England’s old nobility has
been figuring at a police court. Lord Savernake—
who married into the ballet, by the way—was fined
40s. for creating a disturbance outside the London
Pavilion. At this rate, we shall soon have him out
in Australia.
SALOON-MR. DAN. OOOPER AND VALET.”
Goodbye, smug Dan.; but prithee stop not long;
Civilization you must know increases I
If long you sojourn, when you do return,
find, perchance, no ninety-nine years’
leases,
His Excellency Lord Carington has taken
to doing the Darby and Joan business now, and
any day he and her ladyship may be seen strolling
unattended in Macquane-street. The walk is not
a long one-merely as far as R. B. Smith’s house—
to inspect and admire the external decorations—
and back again.
The Hon. Thomas Holt, M.L.0., of Sydney,
is bound to be a social failure in London. Instead
of smelling round the heels of the aristocracy, he
has been feeding the London poor on beef and
duff. We wonder how many tons of flour and herds
of beeves would require to be expended before a
seat in the House could be obtained, or even the
august presence of the Duke and Duchess of Teck
at an entertainment of Sir Samuel Wilson. Why,
it will only be by the time that they are all kicking
Henniker for daring to have been born in Kent
(or anywhere), that the Hon. Thomas will com-
mence to be famous.
Xt is said that Hon.
Thomas Bent, of Victoria
—who, we believe, is a
native of N.S.W.—was
brought up in the R.C.
persuasion. When a
young man, he on one
Occasion went to church,
and being about to enter,
was told he could not go
inside without paying.
Tommy, in a burst of in-
dignation, told the door-
keeper to go to a place
where there’s no winter,
and never afterwards en-
tered any place of wor-
ship.
His Excellency,
Baron Bob, has “ con-
ferred his patronage upon
the Sydney Caledonian
Football Club.” Well,
we hardly think there is
anything left, that the
Governor has neglected.
And this is pretty good,
mind you,for a diplomatic
novice in a three months’
spin. We can just im-
agine his late (or ex) Ex-
cellency extending Ms
patronage to a football
club,and sitting shivering
in a shed for three
mortal hours, watching a
horde of demented
savages insanely kicking
a bladder about. And to
quote Miss Fanny
Squeers : “ Also lan-
gwedge which I will not
pollewtmypen with de-
scribing.”
A new snake-bite
antidote has been dis-
covered in Victoria. On
Wednesday, at Basto’s
baths, Melbourne, the
discoverer of the remedy,
Mr. St. John, experi-
mented on some dogs
bitten by venomous black
snakes. Five dogs were
bitten, and the result, ac-
cording to a contem-
porary, “ was most satis-
factory, three of the dogs
dying in the course of the
night.” We remember
seeing Underwood, the
snake-bite man, operat-
ing on dogs, cats, and
chickens with snake
Eoisonand his antidote,
ut he never lost a case
till foolish enough one
day to bite himself with
a black snake and omit
to apbly the antidote.
Shortly afterwards, Un-
derwood was applying
for a harp, and with him
departed the one secret of
how to defeat the venom
of the black snake.
C. E. Jones, M.L.A., while lately address-
ing a big Ballarat audience, was constantly inter-
rupted by a boisterous son of Judah, one Hart,
who persistently yelled “No I no I” By-and-bye
the orator came to a, dead stop, and then suddenly
said, pointing to the prominent proboscis of the
noisy Hebrew : That gentleman has too much
noes.
Much consternation will be caused at
Potts Point by the recent audacious statement, on
the part of an English paper, that “ Prince Albert
V ictor of Wales should at once proceed to show the
people he one day hopes to rule, that he is some-
thing better than a flaccid young gentleman with
a ,,) 0n k nock, champagne-bottle shoulders, and
effeminate tastes.”
“^ eB > Jear,” said the Princess Mary,
2Lh a^b^ d S e^^? h , eBs , : ? f Tick >* to Mr. Henniker
Heaton, at H.R.H.,8.5 o clock tea, "we commenced
housekeeping with Dresden china at £G the cup,
and, now, you see, we are reduced to the willow
pattern. And this after three men being em-
ployed constancy repairing; and a bill, some-
where, for a ton of cement.”
The dear Duke of Marlborough, it seems,
°r U j the last lingering hopes of his
concubine, Lady Aylesford. He is going to lead
al i ar > 80 lad y A. and her child
will have to find fresh quarters. Mrs. Sartoris is
Sister to Lady Walter Campbell, and the Duke will
marriage with Princess Louise.
The Royal Family is to be congratulated on this
new alliance.
Aaron Waxman, J.P., the 1400 per shenter,
PJ" y is about to proceed to Eurooe for
he ? lth * The Civil servants (who
a “ obliging friend in the
Hebrew J ,P. and usurer) propose to entertain him
pt a banquet prior to his departure, and young
Petty (who still has reminiscences of his exceed-
uigiy profitable transaction with Aaron Waxman)
will bo.-asked to preside at the feast.
Lydia Thompson's second husband, Mr.
Henderson, died at Cannes last month. The fair
Lydia ia not so young as she was, but is still pass-
ing plump and comely, so no doubt further suitors
9?“ G x a -70°mk in due season. By the
w f y ’j i SS ,Cameron, whose rather deter-
miued-lookiDg face figures in most of our photo-
graphers windows, will have to go into mourning
for Mr. Henderson. Violet is a niece of Lydia
Thompson’s.
The South Edinburgh Liberal Association
has passed a resolution condemning Mr. Childers
for taking a pension from the colony of Victoria.
The pension is “something over £llOO a year.”
The association does not deny that pensions may
be given to eminent public men who are poor,but
it shows that Mr. Childers is not poor, and quotes
against him his stereotyped hustings speeches to
his constituents in which he, Parliament after Par-
liament, assured the electors that he had no per-
sonal end to serve in leading a public life.
A little story, which has been going the
rounds of the Sunday-schools down North, has at
last got into those wicked papers and has caused
much sensation in clerical circles. The reverend
shepherd of a rustic flock had a charming young
lady residing with him at his house whom he intro-
duced all round as his niece. The kind friends of
the good pastor have made diligent enquiries and
impudently aver that their spiritual adviser has
no sisters and but one brother, and he (chuckle, ye
heretics 1) is also an unmarried clergyman.
Crooks, the manager of the dead Bank of
South Australia, was pious from the days of his
youth. When he became a man he neither drank
nor swore, and was always first in churoh on wet
Sundays. He sat with his eyes closed while the
parson preached. The closing of his eyes drew
the skin away from his ears, and so they stayed
wide open and caught everything. After sermon
he taught a Bible Class, and the way the ring of
youths and maideDS hung on his fervent exposi-
tions was affecting. Mr. Crooks is, accordingly,
under arrest charged with being the most porten-
tous financier Australia has so far seen.
John Ruskin has not altered his views on
political economy. He is now as great a foe to
vested rights, hereditary successions, and govern-
ment by machinery, as when he frightened the
readers of “ Macmillan's Magazine ” many years
ago by his series of semi-poetic and semi-dyna-
mitic articles on the redistribution of property.
In a letter written last month he says:—“ My poli-
tical teaching has never changed in a single word
A BROAD JOKE.
PHOTOGRAPHER ( mechanically ); “NOW, LOOK PLEASANT, PLEASE. (With agitation). OH, DON’T SMILE QUITE SO MUCH.
I HAVE ONLY A SMALL PLATE IN.”
or thought, and, being that of Homer and Plato,
is little likely to do so, though not acceptable to
the wisdom of a country whose milkmaids cannot
make butter nor her blacksmiths bayonets.”
Some of the dependants of the nobility
who voted according to their own humble
opinions at the recent English elections have
suffered prompt punishment. His Grace the Duke
of Northumberland—he calls himself the repre-
sentative of the House of Percy, but his real name
is Smithson (“Duke Smithson of Northumber-
land,” as the Anti-Jacobin has it)-has dismissed
all the under gardeners at Alnwick Castle because
they didn’t support his nomination, Lord Percy.
Now, Adam was a gardener who could afford to
“smile at the claims of long descent.” Put then
our first parent wasn’t in the service of a dook,
don’t you see.
Mr. G. W. Rusden (mulct to the tune of
£5OOO and costs in the action, Bryce v. Rusden) has
discovered that modern history is a ticklish
matter to touch. If he had endeavoured to root
out a few fresh facts about the Wars of the Roses
instead of devoting his attention to the war in
New Zealand, Mr. Rusden would now be a happier
man. Anyway, he should have confined his ad-
verse criticism to those who have departed to a
land where law courts are not. The art of modern-
history-writing consists in buttering the living
with the reputations of the dead ’uns. In dealing
with recent events, the historian must serve up a
little fact with a lot of taot.
Sir George Bowen, sometime Governor of
Queensland, and of New Zealand and of Victoria,
has left Hongkong for England. At Tientsin,
some years ago, the slimy Bowen met Li Hung-
Chang, the great Chinese Viceroy,(whom he at
once i roceeded to beslaver by dubbing him “ The
Bismarck of China.” Whether Li objected to this
or not does not appear, but he retaliated by calling
his visitor “ Sir Jawbone.” This appealed instantly
to the finer feelings of the Hongkong people, who,
though Sir Gdorge’s departure robs them of the
best joke they had to lay before casual globe-
trotters, are as glad to get rid of their Governor as
have been other communities over whom that
oily personage has presided.
When the Queen of the Belgians goes
shopping “in an informal way,” she often gets
her husband to join her. A London paper says
that the King chats with the shopkeeper, while
i the Queen makes her purchases. Recent dis-
closures make us fancy that His Ma jesty wouldn’t
behave so artlessly ia a sweet millinery establish-
ment. The chances are that his royal eye is wink-
ing at the prettiest assistants all the while. In-
teresting tales could be told concerning the
temptations whispered Into the ears of “ the girls ”
by blue-blooded gentlemen who go shopping with
their female relations. Perhaps the notorious Mrs.
Jeffries could relate some thrilling stories anent
the millinery mashes of the royal Belgian
Lothario.
Bush-missionary Peter Campbell (the new
Peter the Hermit) who got married suddenly a
long while ago, and is, of course, still in gaol, has
now got on his side C. E, Jones, who threatens to
bring Peter’s case before the Victorian Parliament.
The reverend bush-whacker, prior to this, seemed
likely to die out of contemporary history alto-
gether, for he has been long immured in the vaults
of Melbourne gaol, whence, according to one of
the fossilised laws of Australia, he cannot depart
until he, a penniless and friendless man, finds
security for the payment of maintenance to his
wife. How oan a man find money in gaol unless,
perchance, he contrive to borrow it from the
governor,! or the warders, or the flogger, or the
hangman ?
The London correspondent of one of the
S.A. papers has been writing disrespectfully
therein of Mrs. Langtry’s “ knobbly knees.” This
is absurd. Some people, perhaps, flad transcen-
dental beauty in knees of that pattern. They may
be—like Katisha, in the “ Mikado ”—an “ acquired
taste.” Katisha, too, if you remember, spoke of
her left shoulder blade being a miracle of beauty,
which evidently proves that many connoisseurs
admire a large development of bone in ladies.
Anotomical loveliness is much sought after nowa-
days, and the first enquiry about a new profes-
sional beauty is: “What sort of a skeleton won Id
she make ?’ Superficial critics might disapprove
of knobbly knees, while a surgeon, from a post
mortem point of view, might go into ecstacies over
them.
Cinnabar Hester is being offered half of
old Kilkivan, the once famous Queensland “dig-
gings,” if he will let the old identities who have
turned storekeepers, bullock-drivers, publicans,
and graziers stand in with him in his late change
of fortune. He has not counted the money into
his pocket yet, but it is considered locally to be a
sure thing. The mountain will all come away in
quicksilver. Before that eminent “guinea-pig,”
the Duke of Manchester, visited the quarter,
which he did in connection with the M’llwraith
Transcontinental Railway, Hester used to go about
with a clouded brow, with few to discount his
prospects, and not even Mackay Brothers to back
up his ideas. The Duke listened, examined, col-
lected evidence, and took his hand. A capital of
£400.000 is now to be placed on the ground.
On the occasion of Mr. Gladstone’s 76th
birthday a servants’ ball was given at Hawarden,
in which Mrs. Gladstone led the first dance with
the chief butler for a partner, and Mr. W. H. Glad-
stone was her iils-a-vis with the housekeeper of
the castle on his arm. The Grand Old Man simply
viewed the proceedings, taking no active part In
the terpsichorean tumult. His sole amusement
now is ringbarking; give him an axe and a three-
foot elm to chop at and the old fellow Is In the
seventh heaven of delight. The banjo
“ Not for me, indeed,” says the Grand Old Man,
“ Is amusement terpsichore-an;
Not mine to rattle the festive heel,
I’m notVo young as I used to feel;
Three sc jre and ten and six summers more
Have marched In procession my forehead o’er,
And I’m old and feeble and getting done—
The sands from my glass have nearly run;
I am sad and mournful, In dismal mood,
Just hand me the hatchet, I’ll chop some wood.”
“Where art thou Musa ben Abil Gazan
that could’st tame the lion once?” The new
Victorian Minister of Publio Works has dlscevered
that the alterations and additions to the Gcver-
nor's summer house at Mount Macedon will cost
considerably more than the sum voted (£10,000)
for the purpose by Parliament. The depth of
them; they waited till Mirams was defeated before
they dared let this be known. If he had been In
Parliament now he would have brought a bale of
sandwiches in his hat and four quart bottles of
eold tea in his umbrella, and talked for three days
before he could have allowed the House to
sanction what he would have called “ suoh a dis-
graceful abuse of the pubilo money.” He was
not without his uses, was little Mirams-which u
more than can be said for many others who a**
now where he was. 0
The eleotors of Camden (N.8.W.), are i n
the same melancholy plight as the
voters of Mornlngton (Vic). That renowned
legislative apotheciry, L. L. Smith, of advertising
and “ Don’t You Feel Well, Young Man ” celebritv
has no sooner taken his seat than he is off f/j
“Yurrup,” leaving Melbourne patients and Mor
nington constituents alike lamenting. However
the brief space of six months, after which—” thi
medicines as before.” Until the other day wn
never knew the full strength of L. L.’s illustrious
pedigree. We remember his father, E T. Smith
as the proprietor of Cremorne Gardens in their
palmy days, and the benefactor of the Loudon
public, in introducing to their notice the scantilv
clothed Mazeppa—Ada Isaacs Menken. But we
never knew that E, T. Smith was himself the son
of an admiral. Greatness evidently runs in the
family. By the way, L. L. is the apostle of Vic
torian wines, and we shouldn’t wonder if he cams
back with an order for a dozen of dry shiraz from
the Queen.
Some years ago a Victorian town clerk
suddenly “cleared” with corporation coin. He
was officially succeeded by a gentleman who
though he had been Mayor of the town, still re!
tained the oonfldence of the public. He (the new
town clerk) was one of the leading tradesmen of
the place, he was boss of the town volunteers, and
great Mokanna of the local churchwardens; in
short, he was universally trusted and he was
beloved by all. After a virtuous and useful career
he “ pegged out ” the other day without notice'
On the following Sunday the good, simple clergy!
man “improved” the decease of “their dear
friend ” by observing that though sudden death
was ever awful to contemplate, it could be safely
said that few men were better prepared to die
than the lamented town clerk. . . Very soon it
was found that the Corporation funds were a bit
short—a meretritte of £lOOO or so. . . Later on
it was discovered that the lamented deceased had
been in the habit of lending lucre at merely
nominal interest-say, 40 per cent.—to various
local young noblemen who affected poker and
three-up. . . Such is life I For of such is the
kingdom of heaven.
W. 8. Gilbert, the
great librettist, is a native
of Aberdeen, and is the
exception which proves
the rule that no Scotch*
man can understand a
joke. He is married and
inhabits a sumptuous
house in Kensington. He
was educated for the bat,
but has never practised!
He drives a hard bargain)
and knows the worth of
his work to the uttet
most farthing. When the
Lord Garmoyle-Fortes-
cue breach of promise
case was in progress, Gil-
bert appeared upon the
scene as the lady’s ad-
viser, ex mero motu, and
the result was very little
scandal, no trial, and
£lO,OOO in solid cash for
the actress. Gilberts
stern Scotch brain did
its work effectively.
When Blackburn
(an American gentleman,
who seemed to have
been a sort of jaynil
and illoquent Daniel
O Connor, lm Pay), was
running lor Congress, he
happened to be present
one day at an execution
in Owenton, Kentucky.
After the preliminaries
had been arranged, the
sheriff coDsuited hi s
watch, and discovered
that it was not quite 12
o’clock, the hour fixed
for the execution. Turn-
ing to the prisoner, he
said —“You have 10
minutes yet to live; is
there anything you desire
to say in the meantime ?”
The prisoner sullenly re-
plied there was not. At
this instant Blackburn
sprang from his seat, and,
advancing to the edge of
the scaffold, said—“lf the
gentleman will allow me
nis remaining 10 minutes,
I w ill be glad to am. o unce
myself a candidate for
your suffrages. If elected
to Congress ” At this
point the prisoner inter-
jected : “Mr. Sheriff, I
won’t stand on a few
minutes when it’s death
or listening to one of
Joe Blackburn’s speeches.
Flip the trap and let me
go.” The good-natured
sheriff obligingly “flipped
the trap,” and the next
instant the desperado
swung into &c., &c.
J ohn Morley, the recently appointed
Secretary for Ireland, is hardly likely to become
the idol of the priesthood. Some years ago he
sent the religious world into hysterics with one of
his literary innovations. The name God was spelt
with a small g ia Morley’s writings. Since then,
we believe, he has consented to re-endow the name
of the Deity with a capital letter, but the holy
fathers of Dublin are bound to look upon suoh an
infidel with suspicion. What If he were to write
Parnell with a small pi
Three years ago New Zealand was infested
by hoary-headed snuffling Mormon “ missionary ”
elders, some of whom subsequently found their
way to the Australian continent, and assiduously
prowled round the home of the pretty girl in the
Land of the Kangaroo. The grey-headed sinners
were not altogether unsuccessful in these parts,and
a considerable number of adventurous young
women who hastily elected to be “old men's
darlings” in far-off Utah, are now repenting at
leisure the precipitancy with which they threw
themselves into the arms of the prophet of the
lying Joe Smith. The glory of Mormonism is at
last passing away. The Edmunds Polygamy Act
has come into force, and the gay old Latter Day
Saints are no longer at liberty to obey the com-
mands of Heaven. Lorenzo Snow, the chief of the
twelve apostles of the Mormon Church, has been
found guilty of unlawful cohabitation. For 40
years he has been fighting the good fight, and
now, when 72 winters are upon his head, and
seven wives and 23 children prattle about his
knees, he is pitilessly dragged off and ruthlessly
jugged. Never mind, Lorenzo, beyond the Beauti-
ful River there are crowns, with diamonds in
them as large as soup-platas, waiting for all who,
like you, suffer persecution for conscience sake.
An ingenious little fiction attributed the
Coburg (Melbourne) tragedy to the “ Pall Mall
Gazette Revelations.” All the Melbourne reporters
furnished true and particular accounts of how
Mrs. Hampton and her daughters had gloated over
every detail of the Lily Armstrong case, and de-
veloped a morbid condition of mind in conse-
quence. The Argus “improved” the occasion
by pointing out how widespread was the evil re-
sulting from Mr. Stead’s attompt to throw light'
upon the pastimes of the wealthy classes. Even
the English papers got hold of the “Coburg


” and used it as a fresh stone to hurl at
trageayi voted cran i U m. And now comes Dr.
jL rudely destroy the theory that purists so
Cut .to v W Q rke( j ou t. The doctor has had
of the unfortunate Hamptons since the
charge the murder, and he states that the women
dB L° aeveral times assured him, in answer to
5? ve n nestiocs, that they “had never heard or
his about the Pall Mall Gazette
k n ?ri revelations.” His opinion is that they were
wiring from! melancholia of long standing,
irhiastatement is a fearful crusher for Mrs.
£/j?,indv” She—virtuous soul I—naturally im-
that all women who could read must have
feasted upon those “ revelations ” as greedily as
6 he did herself.
a very celebrated “ apostle of prayer and
, Ti,” is in Australia just now. We refer to the
aeorge Muller, founder of the splendid
ornhan Asylum near Bristol. Mr. Muller is old
nn very much in earnest, that is to say, he has
thundering out the same tale for so many
enarsthat he has to believe it. Up to 20 years of
y went to theatres and was dead in trespasses
sin Four months later he left off going to
theatres and was immediately “ born again.” But
.Sat doesn’t explain Mr. Muller’s grand success in
life “Faith” made him. In 1830, when he was
riinning an Ebenezer Chapel, Mr. Muller took unto
wmself a wife. Looking around for a ready
“ ring of bettering his ciroumstances, Mr. M.
thought of “faith.” So he "gave up pew rents
«nd threw himself on voluntary gifts, for which a
hnx was set up in the chapel. He was often re-
duced to a few shillings, but he made known his
wants to the Lord only, and they were usually
aiiDDlied.” Mr. Muller's phllantbropical ventures
have been so uniformly successful that he may be
exousedfor some of his rather unpractical “faith”
doctrines. The pew rent experiment was a clever
one and it came off. But we wouldn’t advise a
dav’ labourer to throw up his fixed wage and rely
noon voluntary gifts. “ Faith” may do wonders
when you have a “ box set up” somewhere. But,
take down the box-and where are you ?
« The Rise and Pall of H. Mortimer
Franklyn,” related by himself in the Melbourne
Insolvenoy Court, is a narrative of considerable
interest. It is impossible to say how much the
blue-eyed Mortimer will carry out (we’re thinking
of the buiial service) of Victoria, but’tis certain
that he brought very little into it. Bis capital,
when he landed, was 24 shillings. That money,
instead!of being bartered away for creature-com-
forts, was utilised in founding the now historical
Victorian Review- A company was floated for
the Review, ,and Mortimer managed it at a
salary of £lO a week. It was soon after this that
the gifted journalist supplied a loDg-felt want by
producing bis great work, “Australia in 1880.”
Anyone wishing to discover the condition of this
continent in 1880 needn’t wsste his time in rooting
out a copy of that book. Mortimer’s examination
convinces us that Australia was uncommonly
"green” at that period. For drivelling about
the j“industries” of some 82 firms the wily
author was subsidised to the extent of £4OOO in
“presentation cheques.” Great Scottl it makes the
mouth water. If we could only get at some of the
Archangels, and manage to float “ Heaven in 1886 ”
(bound in gold cloth), what wouldn’t we cle
worth I But to resume. The bail was now at
Mortimer’s feet, and a touch from his patent
leather-shoe set the ball a rolling. Within eight
months of starting the Federal Australian, he
sold it for £12,000 Then came the World.
We fancy the decline of Mortimer’s greatness
dates from the birth of that unhappy, miserable
Wohld. ’Twas a slow decline (not nearly so rapid
SB that of the company which purchased his
literary treasures, and lost under his management,
£70,000;, bur, alas! it was sure. In the month of
January, 1886-melancholy epoch!-H. Mortimer
Franklyn, Esq., pawned his watch and chain I
What the future may have in store for this re-
markable man, it would be hard to say. One
thing we would venture to predict. The bar-
ometer of hiß chequered fortunes will never again
fall so low as 245.
The departure of Mr. Holt, manager of
the Sydney branch of the Bank of New Zealand,
from the oity h»s caused a great deal of discussion.
Mr. Holt was regarded as one of the ablest men
in his profession, and to his personal exertions and
aptitude the extensive business worked up by the
New Zealand Bank was mainly due. To a genial
address he added a prompt and decisive j udgment
alike of men and measures. It was no secret
whatever that he was what is called a racing man.
He attended the principal meetings without any
affeotation of concealment, and was reported to
bet rather heavily. These predilections could not
fail to tell against a man in his position, and ac-
cordingly the inspector, on his last visit, a few
months ago, becoming aware of these facts, and
of other reports affecting Mr. Holt’s affairs
-such as alleged speculations in land, laid
the matter on his return to New Zealand, be-
fore the Board. Inconsequence, he was Instructed
to return to Sydney and make a particular inves-
tigation, and re-appeared on the scene quite un-
expectedly. An investigation into the treasury
or the bank and into its transactions generally
satisfied the inspector that everything in connec-
tion with Holt’s official business was in perfect
order. But other matters connected with Mr
Holt’s own affairs bore a somewhat doubtful
aspect. Mr. John Bennett had complaints to make
of transactions with Mr. Holt, and altogether it
was judged advisable that that gentleman should
be relieved, at least temporarily, and until his
affairs were cleared up, ot his managerial position,
and it was arranged that he should proceed to New
Zealand on Thursday last Mr. Holt, however,
without apprising the bank authorities, antici-
pated that date and departed without leaving
word respecting his destination, thus giving colour
to the growing rumours that he was an instance
or another good man gone wrong. Mr. Holt was
hked by the customers of the bank, who
nad the more confidence in his straight!orwa d-
ness and integrity inasmuch as he made no pre-
tence of unco guidness. He is a comparatively
“an with an agreeable person and manners,
ana at the present state of information regarding
affairs a great deal of regret is felt and expressed
mat, a man apparently possessed of a multitude of
good and amiable qualities should have destroyed
his career by being in a hurry to get rich, and by
fooling with racehorses.
“ Mr. R. Cowan ” is a gentleman with
sufficient of a grievance to make the Manning.
River Times grovel in the good old rustic style
He writes to complain of the “ omission of his
name from the passenger-list ” of the Sydney
steamer. ‘' This, he states, misleads his friends,
who think he has not arrived—or when they find
that he has, fancy he travelled in the steerage.’
This little picture, as we have estimated, brought
the conductor of the M.R.T. right down on his
“ little turn,” for he hastens to gasp-but we will
not expose the whole extent of the degradation.
We merely state that he concludes his apologetic
par. as follows:—'* We are sorry if annoyance has
been caused Mr. Cowan or his friends ” We infer
from the foregoing that Mr. Cowan must either be
a king in these parts—or a beadle. Immortal
Jove! Fancy a beadle in the steerage! Fancy a
beadle whose “friends might not think he had ar-
rived,” and not be on the wharf in the silver grey
of coming dawn, with a waggonette, a blue flag,
and a slice of the local band I If Mr. Cowan be
neither a king nor a beadle what on earth is he,
that he arrogates to himself the right to raise
thunder because the poor printer has forgotten
to put his name in the paper for nothing ? What
does he travel for, anyhow, that holds the poor
editor, as it were, in the palm of his hand ? We
darkly suspect for either time-payment, back
action, extra-escape-value lever watches, or
(alasl)-for paper.
HER BIRTHDAY.
“Well, dear, have you nice presents?”
“Oh, middling! All the lollies people
gave me, Pa took to give to barmaids.”
High-class Photography.
We have the honour to announce to the elite of
Sydney that’we have opened those premises in the
Royal Arcade, under the designation of the
“ Ghosvenor Galleries, ” where we shall carry
on the business of High-class Photography.
We have come accompanied by a staff of com-
petent artists trained in leading English, Conti-
nental, and American Studios, at the head of whom
is Mr. Thomas C. Cleave who has had the privileged
and distinguished honour of being afforded the
opportunity of assisting at the Photographing of
Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria■ and
has also himself personally photographed H. R.
Highness The Prince Of Wales, in addition to
making pictures of many members of the Govern-
ing Families, Nobility, and Aristocracy of England.
It will be our aim to produce only Portraiture
of the highest artistic excellence, which we venture
to presage will at once obtain for us an extensive
clientele. Inspection is invited to the work dis-
played in the Vestibule leading to our Studios.
CHARLEMONT & CO.,
GROSVENOR GALLERIES, ROYAL ARCADE.
J, BURNER ROBINSON & CO.’i
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 fieorga-straet,
Established 1861,
HAS TH* LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
BTOGK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THB MANUFACTURER'S.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
a
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A Bap'S, UEKTAIN, & SPEEDY CUKE tor Ner-
rA vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Oomplaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&«. &y its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Aloohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ished and gives vigour te the whole system.
Price, is. Sd., or 265. a case- Sold everywhere.
Proprietor*!. MA RSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Shemists, 104-6 Market-at., Sydney. N.B.—All Imi-
tftl, ions 111 sural TAtHt NO §IT RSTTTTTTU
BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’A
Hop Bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED PROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
' earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
' use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘ but the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
|W See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
in every bottle, none other genuine.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of diseases, even
the most stubborn, particu-
larly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touch,
most in a few days-so that
this is not only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, but one of the noblest
medicines that God ever gave
to man.—The Rev. J. Wesley.
Glad tidings of certain re-
lief to sufferers from seminal
weakness by means of Foot's
Yoitaic Appliances.
The Voltaic Belt, as advised,
is really a galvanic bsttery,
as it is commonly termed. Its
mode of application is so well
known that I need not waste
space in expatiation.
dfgh
These Voltaic Belts are a certain, safe, and
speedy cure for Liver Complaint, Indigestion,
Seminal Debility, Nervous Headaches. Lumbago,
Sciatica, Dyspepsia, Palpitation of the Heart,
Heartburn, Dizziness, Lack of Will Power, For-
getfulness, Irritability, and all complaintß of a
nervous nature.
The price in future will be 17i. 6d. instead of
60j., ss formerly. As I have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at less
than one-third their former price.
The above amount includes medical advice, if
required.
Apply at once to Dr. FOOT. Box 916, G.P.0.,
Sydney, with P.O. Order for 17s. 6d., and your
belt will be despatched by the return of post.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEER, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
sreet, B risbane.
NERVOUS DEBILITY CURED.-Lost man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fren:h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, contaia*
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766. Sydney.
; ; - "■ : ■
■
ii
> -.
'
:- A » r
-y s
:v
-ii..—v '
§r§:s**3
s*#
- K -■ -"V--.-
- ■■-
A
1
J W
LIMITED,
356 G@srgs~sfriif F
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FIINOS, OB6AHS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
THE NiW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAEEHGUSE,
39 CABTLEREAG H-BTREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Jones, Lawson Bros,, Si Si,,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direot importations, and bought for
eaßh in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices. K
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &o,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
w » be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the Arm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROB., & GO.
POKE EOT-CHAMBBR?,
CASTLEREAGH-STRE BT,
Near Hunter-street.
E V 6Houl]?usb fEEI&CST -T
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete approved
Tho ™ B I GuI?INTEBD r YI? t VSaS iUTr
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI George-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE EROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
ALLO
AND ARIELLS
e;
( e:
nuns AID CADES, TREACLE AID SOLDER STRIP,
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
WQt- FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
4 A. have obtained First Awards all over tlie world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Aigsiitsa W. H. ARBELL A CO., 343 stud 843 Kmt-stwaff.


Bismarck, the Iron Chanoellor,
many only £3600 a year. In other words, he la but
£lOO dearer to his country than Is Sir James Martin
to N.S.W. Considered as a healthy specimen of a
tyrant, we don’t think Bismarck is worth within
thousands a year of the other great man.
A third of the British army is armed with
swords and bayonets made at Solingen. I Germany I
Yes, with bad swords and bayonets. This, which
has come to light while the Lord Mayor of London
is collecting funds for the unemployed, and while
all classes of workmen are feeling the pressure of
the times, is commended, ss a reductio ad absur-
dum of freetrade, to the Melbourne Argus.
H 1 A T R * ROYAL.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnjsr and Musgrovi.
Lease*-. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. T- Goolman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
RN THUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGhOVE S
famous „ „„
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE of
HOOD MAN BLIND.
TBIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, MARCH 25
AT A QUARTER TO EIGHT PRECISELY,
HOODMAN BLIND.
BATDRDAY, MARCH 2T, will be prmiuced for
the first time in Sydney, a new play, entitled
DARK DAYS.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL.
Lessee and Director
Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO NIGHT, and everv evening during the week.
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and BPECIA.LT!
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
To conclude with the Screaming Firee,
“THE COMING MAN."
Popular Prices; Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Erery Sunday Night. Grand Concert SpTitue),
at 7 30 o’clock.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee .. •• Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. •• Mr. B N. Jones.
255 h WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
Last Night of
ROYAL PARDON ROYAL PARDO •.
On Friday EvenlDg, Shakespeare s BAMLEI.
On Saturday Evening will be produced tin Sensa-
tion Drama,
ALL FOR GOLD.
Manager for Mr. Dampier —FRED. GUNTH ER.
\OADIMY OF MUBIC.
Pole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hiscoeks.
84th WEEK 84th
And still the popular and Fashionable Resort.
Once again we reoord another Great Hit of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HISCOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRBLB
and Specialty Union.
OUR NEW PROGRAMME.
Terminating with the Screaming Farce, called
THE JUDGE’S SUBSTITUTE.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867). .
Manager Harry Lynch.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
To the Residents of Central Australia.
On MONDAY, 29th MARCH,
the Company will arrive at uOURKE, and com-
mence a short season in the
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
Admission—Reserved Seats, 6j ; Bick Seats, 3j.
Doors open at 7 30 Overture at 8 precisely.
NYNGAN TO FOLLOW
T
O THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and gentlemen,—l respeotfully solicit your
Votes and Interest as a Director of your Society,
of which I am and have been a member for 36 years.
I think it due to you to speak with no uncertain
voice with respect to the action of the Board in
establishing a branch in England for the taking of
E l R beUeve k t*he step to be unwise, and that the
opinion of the members should have been obtained
prior to adopting such a momentous change in the
policy of the society. ....
I deem this the more incumbent on the directors
as the decision was NOT the unanimous vote of the
Board, hut ONLY CARRIED by the votes of a
majority of the directors.
I hope I have a claim on your suffrages, as I have
always exerted myself to promote the prosperity
of the Society; and many of the reforms in the by-
laws of the Society are due to my strenuous ad-
vocacy, notably the present salutary change now
In force in the mode of electing the Directors. I
have for years advocated and successfully caused
the abrogation of the proxy system, so much
abused, viz , the admittedly corrupt one of elect-
ing Directors by the use of proxls. I for many
years protested against suicidal clause (happily re-
pealed) under which the widow and orphans were
deprived of all claim in the event of the insured
dying by hi 3 own hand. I have also been an ad-
vocate for all beneficial reforms and for the cur-
tailment of the expenses of the Society, consistent
with its well-being, and the full and liberal con-
sideration of its employees, always remember-
ing “ that the labourer is worthy of his Hre.’’
Should you do me the honour of electing me I
W ill perform my duty faithfully and honourably,
and study the best interests of the members. At
foot I attach a few opinions of the Press and am,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours very faithfully,
FItEDK. LEE.
March 15th, 1886,
Ivy Lodge, Pitt-street, Redfern, near Sydrey.
“ In another column appears an advertisement
from Mr. Frederick Lee, J.P., who is a candidate
for the office of Director of the Australian Mutual
Provident Sooiety. Amongst the many reforms
Mr. Lee has obtained in the government of this in-
stitution he for years advocated, and at length
successfully caused the abrogation of the proxy
system, which had been so much abused. He has
always taken a great and active interest in the
Society, and we wish him suocess, as we think his
election to a seat at the Board would conduce to
the prosperity of the Society. ’’—Suburban Times.
“ Some short time since Mr. T. H. Green brought
under the notice of Mr. F. Lee, of Sydney (a geL tie-
man who has always exhibited a large interestin
the affairs of the A. M. P. Society, and is a can-
didate for the vacancy on the Board of Directors)
the danger attending the issue of policies on a
single life up to £lO,OOO. Mr. Lee condemns those
targe risks, and considers that the members of the
Society ought to have been consulted by the
Directors in regard to such a changs or polioy,
although they have the power to do what is com-
plained of. Mr. Lee appears to be the right stamp
of man for the members of the Society to select
as one of their management.”—Richmond River
Express and Tweed Advertiser.
FOLLY’S SYDNLY GYMNASIUM,
At roar of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION trivcn every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, FenoiEg, «o. For
terms, &j., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED,',
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—S EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periois; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
< I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Intending Visitors to the Colonial Exhibition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
CareU & l SS^!wS3y 1 !Sl l H!8,”8t S iii£S“ to
Dr. Rumney (of "RIDGE’S FOOD ’ fame) is again
runrir g his celebrated six horse Stage Coach,
"THE w OND BB,” between London and St. Albans,
leavimr Hatchett s Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
f-vory morning at 10 45, returning t) Piccadilly at
“'Ample time is allowed at St Albans for lunch and
nflflffiDffers ti inspGCt ths CATHBDRiL, which is
one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN TH 8 WORLD.
The tiip is one of the most delightfui that can be
takeD, and the price charged for the return fare
iS Cards' and other Particulars apply to
“ WONDER ” Coach Office, Hatchett s Hotel, Pic-
cadilly, London, England.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
Eirst- class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Propristor.
Good Tabla and Reasonable Terms.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17 th March, 1886.
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are Invited for the Erection of New
Buildings for the St. Peters Public School.
Plans and Speciflctliots may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the offic * of the Depart*
ment of Public Instruction, Sydiey.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Bmldings,
St. Pettrj Public School. ' must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public
tion. at or before 10 o'clock a.m , on Wednesday,
the 7th April, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
ARTHUR REN WICK.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 18th March, 1886.
TENDERS FOR WEATHER3HED.
TENDERS are Invited for the Hrectlon of a
Weatherehed at the Parramatta North Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen. and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Weatherahed,
Parramatta North Public School, must be ffidged
with the Under Secretary. Department of Publio
Instruction, at or before 10 o clock a.m., on Mon-
day, the 29. h March, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Department of Publio Worka.
Sydney, March 23 18(6.
rEHDERf? for PUBLIC WORKS and BUT-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
owing Publio Works and Supplies. For fuUpartl-
lulars see Govbrnmbnt Gazbttb, a file of which
s kept at every Post Office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
ire opened, and the name of the successful
icnderer will be announced, if possible, before the
luties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
ess the terms of the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not hind Itself to aooept
She lowest or any tender.
Nitui) of WoiU *nfi BuppilM
Dates to which
Tenders can he
received at
this office.
Erection o' Post and Telegraph
office, Berrima „ , .
Erection of new Lockup, Bowral
Erection of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, &c., Courthouse,
Young
Additions. &o„ to Biths. Hospi-
tal for the Insane, Gladesville.
Overbridge in Guinea-street,
Albury, Great Southern Rail-
Construction of Wharf, Field of
Mars, Lan» Cove River
Erection of Covered Way, Bene-
volent Asylum, Parramatta
Supply of 36 Railway Ticket
Cases
Tuesday.
March 80,
at 11 o’clock.
BuopJy of Hardwood, Colonial
Pine. Oregon, Baltic, &c., Hun-
ter River District, during 1886
Supply of Uniform C'otbiQg
for Tramway employees
Tuesday.
April 6,
at 11 o'clock.
Alterations, &c, Police Build-
ings and Lockup, Cootamun-
dr i
Additions, &c , Australian Mu-
seum TH
Purchase of Locomotive En-
gines, Honeysuckle Point
Erection of Station BuildiDg,
Bolivia, Great Northern Bail-
way
Erection of Cottage, Police Sta-
tion, Moruya
Erection of a House for porter
ia charge at Wimbledon, Gt.
Western Railway
Tuesdav,
April 13.
at 11 o’clock
Construction of Four Sets of
Wroughtand C stlron Cylin-
ders for crane foundations,
Newcastle
Construction of Wharf, Balra-
nald
Tuesday,
April 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Riveting and Erection of nine
Wrought Iron Aqueducts,
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Lighthouse and
Llgktkeepsr's Cottage, Kiama
Tuesdar,
Aoril 27,
at 11 o’clock.
JACOB GARRARD.
WILLIAM FLEMIHG,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FLEMINBS
RELIABLE
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizeis.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD !
dfgh
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
•with Side Springs.
WAGGONB,
with Hoods.
WAG GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspect.
w
•-JK
m
V
? iaptlj
;/,c
v<*,*
3*4
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
photographic stock dealers
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEBT WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBRAPHY.
80LB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
ZEssupiratioiex of Lease.
Great Sale of MUSIC, STATIONERY, BOOKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing
MONDAY NEXT, Bth lust.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-marked, and a discount of 35 per cent., or 4s. in the £, will be
allowed on previous prices. , .
The profession and the publio are invited to this extraordinary chance of replenishing
their stock of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. 6d., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangings, Embroideries, Vases, &0., all reduced 35 per cent.
Extraordinary value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £l. Ask for Circulars i
particulars.
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &0., &c.
Account books, Day books, Ledgers, and Cash books, at wonderfully low prices.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 George-street.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptie or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OP THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR
ADMIXTURE* vied
The Faculty pronounce It the "most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage few Brew
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children- r» r epart-
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa," with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of pr
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &0., and In reality cheaper than su
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, beeping for years in all climates, o
a concentrated form. Made Instantaneously with boiling wat«ir, and palatable without mi
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Brt
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 3 s , ss. 6 d„ Ac-
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHWBITZER & CO., 10 ADAM-BTBEBT, BTKAND, W.C., LONBON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSB3.
&
<0
V
Or
Genuine
y*g Economical
Oocoa
Makers to the Quee
:c
r?N


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TaEAT** Rotal- “ Hoodman Blind ” p. 8
gaiety Theatre— 1 ' The Royal Pardon”.... „
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
academy of Mxjsio.—Minstrelsy „
Hoi minions, bring hither the blood of the red
grape,
The perfume of roses, and gurgling guitar,
would sing—who would not, to extol Grade
Plaisted
Who takes the twin part—Qiroile-Girofia.
She’s a realised vision, a fair queen of Concord,
In harmony’s sphere a sweet sanctified star,
She has oome,— we have seen,—has conquered
at once,—
Grade Plaisted—the twins, Girofle-Girofla.
Prostrate at her feet we are bent; or like captives
Are bound to the wheels of her triumphing car;
It is joy to behold her, ’tis rapture to hear her,
The empress of song—Girolle-Girofla.
No wonder they crowded to welcome her hither,
Had they done otherwise it had been singular:
They gave emblems and .flowers, although these
may wither,
We’ll remember her song-Glrofle-Girofla.
It is only three bob in the circle to hear her,
As she warbles her song in the bright opera
What a shame I Only three? Surely ten would be
nearer
The thing when she sings Girofle-Girofla.
* • *
Which is our roundabout way of saying
what is more briefly, but we modestly think less
elegantly expressed in the sparkling columns of
the Evening Alfred by the phrase always kept
on tap, took well and gave pleasure to ail,” And
we don’t mind saying that if we had trusted to
prose we might perhaps have had our little say
about Gracie Plaisted without piling such an ab-
normal quantity of “preserve” upon her little
plate. But poetry is so deceptive, and gives such
iree scope to the imagination that in handsstrange
to its use it is apt to put quite too roseate a tint
upon the subject. And we further admit
that the Muse is to us a comparative
stranger. We have not dropped into verse
since we were last in love, and, lor I we have
been married now for six years. But even in
solemn prose we do not hesitate to say that if
there is any cake going round in dramatic circles
now, Gracie s share of it is all but the plate
When she was here before, we gave her all the
oleomargarine that we judged could be safely
donated to one so young, and we are now pre-
pared to give her the unappropriated balance.
She has left as big a foot-print on the sands of
time—and tune—as so Lilliputian a foot can be
expected to impress. Her voice seems to have
gained about 300 canary-power since she started
to mash the Maoris, and her “ business ” through-
out on Saturday night was excellent a
thing to be wondered at considering that this was
her first appearance in the role, and that it is
no n n l ea °? a P.,, easy ooe to master; but
she rose to the billows of harmony and floated
buoyantly over its more placid places never seem-
ing t0 j grow wea J y °* the demands of melody.
(Thunder, we need nothing more to be a picnic
orator I There is something peculiarly fetching
about Grade’s performance, and we do not doubt
but that opera-glasses will be in great reouest
during the rest of the season-the modern Eliiah’s
(he had a bald head, hadn’t he ?) say they can always
hear so much better with these, you know, when
the chorus girls are on the stage.
• • ■
Charles Harding, Marasquin, is as hand-
some as Nature and art can make him, and if he
couple of duets, follow carefully in the
Miss Plaisted, this was probably more out
/?£i pcd l* e i? esB Vldee aux dames —than because he
did not know better. Gently and mercifullv wn
at B «foh° him £ h at politeness is misapplied
ab , Bu P b a time. C. H. Templeton made up
splendidly as Mourzouk, but seemed to be a little
onTin'fao ona i ] r at £ shouM haPe been
on E, in fact. As a whole his was a satisfactory
although somewhat uneven performance vet not
wore we ? Let’s see, where
![® r ® V, otl i yes, Pedro was kept well within
raDge by the opera-glasses, but in the first act her
light was only of three-peck order—that is it was
a bushel,” and she seemed nervous
distrait. Her thoughts were prob-
of course 6 t??Z in S Ioom ” ith her clothes-that is
or course with the rest of them When she
wfll I prohs 0 h? 6r - WC,rfe Bhe put in kood business, and
gftin?w a o b If im P rove when she thoroughly re-
sponse of S +heS Aurore, the imperious
throughout hn^Do 118 •? ole iEr < ?’ p Ji? yB consistently
fUme?f era 'wi® e iin Proved upon the dialogue with
&ion r 6 a C n k rt le^ fl dari ? g , and in tbe moKrigTnal
luminnu? revised version made the house
fiy. Whit for and radiant with risi-
-^6^saas»*aswßasis
ocessW/^ 88 hysterical. If on some future
A, g Tavlor C ftnH m it? a if e T t ? m ention the names of
EguSters b ™u? DBid . e u red as “ Pore merino.” Only
eSr, beclise Se thev iS ft te ke ’ an , d yery f ®w of them
sr?„ r ss sr.« a w
mSflJ n as’l goes as
as this may Dei*h?n?h , V i fun f ral l Procession, or,
that it is taken ironically, let us say
Patrick’s bannuef°or,T ith as “. uch spirit as a Bt.
byterian Bsyno 8 synod U Th B e muc .h energy as a Pres-
the flrsr bridesmaid s chorus was, on
Aurore’sson«r 6 ««wl thing but a * ay item, and
a furore ! We women weak,” did not create
omiasinn* 13 was probably on account of its
with Si custoM?v I «k?ii Sear s ll ®f e,,fflneeM the mu6io
occaflonal Sndnnnt 11 ; aad lts ODly fault is its
Crowdedhm,ii= e ? cy overpower the singists.
the marfwho dtcH nnr £ lthert o been the rule, and
saat, not happen to have reserved a
unless he has rntin ba vmg to sit on his feet,
ot briDgtoß *
about fhl d Mn haT< :something real nice to
sympathv bo ffo? p< ’? a House. We are as full of
and jUstyas is of his chronic secret,
m a id J ec B aunt! 8 toTv«° o i a^ e °Ji b laudat ion as a
a delight Klve advice: therefore we have
Wreath to the°manai'Jmfi l l n in t br .°wing our little
occasionally 6 that ?F 6^h 6nt ’ and lf i hey would just
Punkah 2oLn,t k ’J heil we are there-keep the
goiDg our joy would be simply ecstatic.
Itt
oiUhe rnit Fa . mily °P en at Bourke (N.S. W.)
and will, we hear, at tne special
a selection entitled^+hi opa ii olenc v w S rry through
ou B:ht to be a draw. 4 th c °nvent Bells.” That
To uvaoolu. * * * *
thus Frida/ldiS? th , ere comes an end, and
Blind Wll i Bee the last of “ Hoodman
characters will Boyal. Jones and Barrett's
tain, and the m^i 0 away, all at the fall of one cur-
Jittie vfliag© "of k l r tragedy and comedy in the
oavy-blue eye^ f of tS Cre3l °w will be, to the
® e .ut, the same n«f a be swaggering practical pre-
‘Uht T h a “®„ a 9 dead - iney had their day or
toolish, the and j the °i d > the wise and
Period of aad Hghteous, lived for a
weeks among us. Now ’tis over.
Bad °we® t to r S e 8 h 9 < i l U HL a i a+wiU f 2 u ff cmt or **>
i snail disappear. Our piece has been
Rood, but some of us are desperately in earnest.
±iea aanas and wet eyes are predominant in many
scenes. Villainy, with a world s curses on its
gnarled soapy visage, is everywhere. The inno-
cent frankness of impulsive childhood, the timor-
ous gentleness of sensitive maidenhood, the lus-
trous beauty of noble self-sacriflciog womanhood
are here; and here, too, about them are the itchy
dames of gossipy scandal, with their tongues
of tongues and their laughs making
o? laughter. The dramatist who devised
as, sitting in his cloud-floored attic in the Empy-
rean, with the crying of spaces to be filled surging
up and in throush crevices of his walls of fleece-
iike sunshine, will, when he has had his run, with-
draw us. Other playrights will then get a turn.
Hardly another will ever take humanity for a
subject again.
* * *
But looking at the clearing away from the
Villag'e Cross at Abbots or© wonders
what good it could be to some of those loutish
dolts to survive in spirit when their stage pur-
P°s® B 8^ e °'i er : JF a , ke Joe Bwirrup, the landlord
of the Crooked Billet, or Jim D idge, the black-
srnith, or JeJkg, the chimney-sweep, or Noah
Quodling. What could it be possible to ever
want with people like these in the luminous realm
of love that is always love and rapture, that is ever
the same ? What could ever be made of them on
the brivht white trees where radianoe meets radi-
ance and ceaseless music ripples and rolls ? Will
their natures be altered? But if it be necesrary
1° a^ er J hem * wfa y were they not made right at
first? Thy question grows out of the drama in
which we have parts as well as out of the play of
‘‘Hoodman Blind.”
** * *
At the Sydney Gaiety, on Monday even-
ing, the 25th week of the Dampier season was
opened by the production of a “ Royal Pardon,”
described as a London success. Taere is no room
to doubt that a royal pardon would be a success
even in Sydney, and a vice-regal reprieve be occa-
sionally welcomed with demonstrations of satis-
faction by the people of this enlightened colony.
But the rope and lash are too much loved in our
courts for the royal clemency to be mere than oc-
casionally sought.
* * *
The “ fat” of the piece falls to Mr. Dam-
pier, who, in a pourtrayal of four distinct charac-
ters, gave proofs of a return of that versatility of
which lately he has apparently been too sparing.
Boothman, as a character in every-day life was
more natural than is usual amongst Etage
•‘i < T> u pd r e*6. He followed the advice Bhakesperian,
«i Pi moi i ey purse,” with commendable
fidelity,and was no more particular about the means
of achieving wealth than the average mining spe-
culator, who wild-cat’s a ’section, and slopes leav-
ipg nothing but an empty safe and a deal table to
testify to his existence ever having been more
than a fable. As Jonas Grimwood, a deformed
boatman, Leston held a part which he suited, and
Joe .stark, as Captain Seafield, looked every inch a
sailor. As Joseph cannot sail across to North
bhore without symptoms of seasickness it is fair
to assume he is more likely to shine as a long shore
captain than as a tar who ploughs the raging main.
Stoneham, whose early life is spent in a law-
yers offle?, becomes at the conclusion of
the piece a millionaire, and this change in
his circumstances gains him more friends than
ever fell to the lot of any other honest man. For
it is a peculiarity of the law tint its interpreters
are overwhelmed with a desire to be more strictly
honest than a Commercial Bank manager tof
South Australia) or a Bydney pickpocket. The
ladies have parts in which walking about seems to
be their chief end and aim. Misses Dampier and
Merton are graceful pedestrians ; while Miss
Katherine Russell as Peggy, a friend of the
family, imbues her part with a plebeian natural-
ness which is most affecting. The scenery by
Kinchela is excellent, though occasionally the
manner of its moving is not marked by the
easy grace which marks the motions of a peram-
bulator in ihe hands of a hired nurse-girJ. The
piece will give way to “ Hamlet ” on Friday even-
ing, with Dampier as the melancholy Dane.
** * *
At Sydney Alhambra a good and varied
programme is presented each evening. The first
part is interspersed with witticisms of a stupen-
dously high order. No negro minstrel jokes are
ever alarmingly funny, and it is with a feeling of
sorrow almost that the listening crowd hear any
attempt to work off a new gag. This departure
announces the fact in large capital letters that the
minstrel has taken his brains out, and intends to
run for Parliament.
* * *
Miss Hope’s item on Monday evening was
“Only a little.pair of shoes,” and judging from
the young vocalist's efforts to tear the notes from
her chest, we would suggest “ only a little bottle
of cough mixture.” on a future occasion. It is
sad to see one's Hope blighted, and Hope sick
maketh the heart think of a spade. Hugo's comi-
calities found vent in the number “ Dancing with
May.”
v * *
Miss Fraser was in good voice, as was the
ever-popular Matlock. Miss Nina Tulloch is still
awakening the forest echoes of the scenery with
the soDg of the " Maid and the Magpie,” in which
the thrill of the forest bird is faithfully repro-
duced by the fair vocalist. She is, “fair with
golden hair” in thisaet, but in the preceding part
she sits as a brunette, a sort of two-headed or two-
hairad nightingale.
# * * *
At the New Oddfellows’ Hall, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, the Vanity Fair Company are
playing to good business. This entertainment
will run with the smoothness of an omnibus when
a few of the vocalists learn to ting. The end men
are good, and some of the specialities are more
humorous than a banquet speech on Imperial
Federation.
** * m
Hiscocks’ combination at the Sydney
Academy of Music are now in their Bfth conse-
cutive week of performances of universal excel-
lence. The first part, with which the names of
Dunbar, Porter, Amery, and Braham are asso-
ciated, is a musical end melodio"8 performance, in
which a noticeable feature is the blending of the
various voices in the choruses. It is in each in-
stance a Royal blend.aJ.RD ofvocilism. The
farce of “ The Judge’s Substitute,” which we have
seen before under a different title, winds up the
merriest two hours' fun we have sat through
since our mother-in-law became a ghost.
•* ® 0
We have to congratulate Mr. Widow John
Bheridan upon having secured, in Sydney, a three-
act comedy from the electric pen of Mr. Leopold
Jordan. The piece is, a conttmporary tells us, to
be product d in Sydney first, then to tour the Aus-
tralian colonies, and, finally, to be brought out in
London. It this be true, it would be a good move
for Mr. Sheridan to take Leopold with him. He
would come in useful pointing out the jokes of his
production—with a stick.
mm m *
Dan. Barry, speaking at Tenterfleld on
Monday night, at the conclusion of his perfor-
mance of “ Euchred” said at last he had come to
Paradise. The editor in replying through the
columns of the Star, said “ Thanks, very much;
we’ve been looking forward to that elysium of
bliss for sometime past, and didn’t know we had
readied it.” This is an honest sentiment, Star.
We agree with ycu—the man who would locate
Paradise in New England would certainly place
Slk ol in Paradise. But Dan. has been in scores of
heavens in his travels. Every place where he
makes a c;ear fiver is described as Paradiss in his
“ few words of heartfelt thanks.”
* * *
W. S. Gilbert’s humour is a little too deep
for a good many people who affect to roar over 1
his conceits. Anent the “ Mikado” production, we
find a terrible sample of obtuseness in a little
Melbourne journal. Says some critical genius—
"Alioe Barnett is most disappointingly tali. One
doesn’t expect Sweet Little Buttercup to be live
feet ten,” Great Boott l From a Gilbertian point
n f ,f V v?,7n thia is ver y thing one does expect.
V>?A’ ( . by the way, Miss Barnett is not the original
Pv«i e . r a Up -, Part was written for Miss
i a ad / whoBe breadth, rather than height,
$ unl fl ? d f the character. When she died
and SiiUivan selected Miss Barnett to fill
tne gap in Mr. Carte s company, the leading male
members of which have stuck to their posts since
m h e . .1 »2F5 e^ er „ v!^n 9 Produced, nine years ago.
-J? 111 ft? the Melbourne Koyal in-
describes Miss Katisha Barnett as the
buttercup. Playbills, though, are
woov«?v!i pi !t d 4 b ? P e 9Ple whose memories are
weaker than their imaginations.
»* * *
in Adelaide a Mr. Stuart Cumberland is
®, a J u ®t now. The good citizens of the city
of churches are so down in the dumps over their
banking and other ca'amities that they have not
much energy left for taking an interest in any-
,, ®i x^T? ne i >u s,> ®.tbl tbey have been asking:
Who is Mr. 8. C. ? Echo, who is asfeed more
questions than a city editor could answer, gives
no reply, but not so Mr. Cumberland himself—on
the, contrary, he floods the guileless dailies with
notices of his past doings in various parts of the
globe to such an extent as almost to threaten ex-
clusion to the übiquitous tea-fight and its cheer-
nil corollary, the prayer-meeting. Mr. Stuart
Cumberland telegraphed his approach to the
papers, came, saw, and conquered. Into the in-
nocent ears of the youths who went to “ inter-
view him on the steamboat, he poured the in-
toxicating tale of genial 11 receptions ”by princes,
peers, and potentates, of chats with Gladstone and
Wales, Bismarck and Gortchakoff, Prester John
and Kubiai Khan. Here is a sample:-“I have
been received in every Court in Europe,” said Mr.
Cumberland, ‘ and have touched (whatever that
I 7 Bm,tiie. 8 m, tiie . People who make European poli-
tics. The night fitter I arrived at St. Petersburg
« s^PP er with the Grand Duke Alexis, broiher
of the Czar, and two other dukes. While talking
about politics one of them said to me,” &c. Lots
or it like that; in factSMr. C. doesn’t seem to know
anybody beneath the dignity of a “ dook.” It was
a u Bo >. gor^eoUB that the distinguished traveller,
who by the way, announces himself as a Jingo
after Beaconsfield's own heart, a tbirster after
■Russian blood, and an Imperialist of the most
spread-eagle type-was received by Governor
Kobinson. This in itself is rather a rare occurrence,
because Governor Kobinson, although he lives in
the driest country in Australia—some say in the
world-sees plenty of rainy days ahead; at least he
is always laying by for them. There may even be
a natural affiaity.bGtveen a c’airvoyant Governor
and a thought-reading globe-trotter. Then the
Press announced that although Mr. S. C. had
retired from any public] display of his powers,
there was a "very general desire” tnat he
should give a sconce in the Town Hail,
and there was a “possibility” that Mr. S. C. would
incline his ear to this desire; and, sure enough, the
posters were out next day. Is not Adelaide dull
enough without having that slowest and dreariest
of ‘shows”-a mind-reading sdmee—inflicted on
it f otill it may, by severe contrast, seem almost
cheerful to the poor Fariaopolitans, whose every
place of evening amusements—save the pubs-is
now clqsed, and who are sitting in the valley of
mourning, moaning and gnashing their teeth,
plastering their heads with oil of piety and the
ashes of bankruptcy, and having a very lugubri-
ous time of it altogether. Mr. Stuart Cumber-
land has, it appears, written a "shilling awful,”
called The Rabbi’s Spell,” and he thus begins a
criticism on it in an Adelaide daily:-" Mr. Stuart
Cumberland is truly a most versatile gentleman;
nothing sterns to be beyond his reach, and his
talents-as the London Daily News puts it-not
only range from finding concealed pins in West-
minster to reading the hidden thoughts of diplo-
matiets in Bt. Petersburg*, but political and literary
laurels also appear to be within his grasp.” We
may add that Mr, Cumberland doesn't blush worth
a cent. Mr. S. C. is going to mate the tour of
Australia, interview all the leading politicians,
find out all about everything, return home, be
elected into Parliament straight off the reel, re-
present Imperial union there, and then—ah, what
then?
** * *
There is a good deal, in a glanoe at the
London Era, to interest an Australian who can
read. We see that Bland Holt has entered into
partnership with his ancient gov,, Clarence, and
that the two are busking about the provinces
with much cheeriness with " The World ” and
■The Stockbroker” respectively, Bland's Moss
Jewell "being acknowledged by the Press to be a
marvellous creation ” (which is a good hearing),
while of Clarence's Stockbroker it is asserted
(excellent intelligence, also) that "it is a part into
which no actor living could possibly infuse so
many pathetic touches.” In another page we find
advertised a good-natured agency which “has
been instrumental in obtaining several of its
clients £5OO, £lOOO. and even £5OOO damages for
libellous paragraphs in newspapers, which without
its aid might not have come under their notice.”
There’s no necessity, thank Heaven, for the estab-
lishment of such an agency in Sydney—the want
has long been supplied by certain Hebrew and
alleged Christian attorneys. As, in order to trans-
act his business with success, the man who keeps
this office must read "every dramatic criticism
published,” we feel we must pity rather than con-
demn him. Mrs. Scott-Siddons has “an adven-
ture” in the same issue, which consists in not
arrivieg until half-past 9 p.m. to show at an enter-
tainment at Birkenhead, in which Bhe was adver-
tised to appear at 8. She explained when she got
there that the cabman had been driving in a circle
ever since she had engaged him, at 7 o’clock.
Nothing was said, of course, about “giving the
boys time to put up the plunder.”
*# * #
Madame Lottie-Montal Poussard, the de-
posed prima donna of the Melbourne Opera
House, has been let in for £l5, carriage hirp, on
the suit of a stony-hearted livery-stable keeper.
Madame made two pleas. Firstly, that she was
partner with Mr. Sam Moore in the Opera House
spec , and the " firm ” was responsible. Secondly,
that managements are in duly bound to supply
barouches (as well as bouquets) for their "prime
donee.” Madame’s partnership-alas! was mythi-
cal, ar-d-ob, disenchantment! her salary was 10
notes per week. After deducting some £7 odd
forthe barouche, little but glory remained. The
other day our eagle eye fell upon a novelette
called, “ cihe would be an Actress.” We thought
of Madame, and sighed.
»• » •
Henry Irving, says a London paper, pre-
sented every member of his company with a goose
and a bottle of spirits on Christinas Eve. Lucky
people! Plenty of actors "get the goose” from
the puolic, but no bottle of spirits accompanies
the gift, unless ’tis an empty one hurled by a play-
ful " god.” Speaking of that, we remember offend-
ing a tragedian by telling him that he required a
large stage to display his Othello to the best ad-
vantage. He shook us by the hand and said that
he was quite of our opinion. “ Yes,” we suggested,
“a good deev stage, where you can keep out of
bottle-range.”
Thd Agonizing Itching and Burning
Of eczema or Balt rheum instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cuticura Soap, and a single
application of Cuticura, the great skin cure. This
reoeated daily, wit i two or three doses of Cun-
cura Resolvent, the new blood purifier, to keep
toe blood cool, the perspiration pure and irritating
the bowels open, tne liver and kidneys active, wili
speedily cure eczema, letter, ringworm, psoriasis,
lichen, pruritus, scall head, dandruff and every
species of itching, scaliy and pimply humors of
the scalp and skin, when the best physicians and
all known remedies fail.
Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, safest, and
best article ot its kind in use.
Why do American Hop Bitters cure so much?
Because they give good digestion, rich blood, and
healthy action of all the organs.
The safest and surest of regulating tonics
Woife’s Schnapps,
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Send
or the solid
ORIfNTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS O F
-MSS
ORIINTAL NOVfLTIES.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 4/-
Seal .. 4/-
JBracelet.
10/
12/-
14/-
16/-
Bov. Purse 4/-
Match Box 4/-
Scarf Pin.. 2/
2/6
S/
>, 4/-
„ 6/
Albeit ... 6/
Charm .. 4/
Studs.f. set 3/-
.. 4/-
„ 5/-
„ 6/
Keeper ... 2/6
Gem Ring 4/-
Bucklo „ 2/6
Diamond „ 6/-
Brocch Set 5/-
~ 7/6
.. 10/
15/-
Crots, 4/, 5/, 6/
Locket, Ladies ... 5/-
~ .. 10/
- „ ..15/-
3/
4/-
5/-
15/-
2O-
/
Necklet .. .. 5/-
Watch (Ladies').. 30/-
„ (Gent's) .. 30/-
Broocb, frm 1/6 to hy-
oid Gem Ring ... 8/6
Keeper „ .. 7/6
Wedding „ .. 7/6
Bangle
Barrings ~
Albert
Waltham
Watch £8 8/-
» 9 9/-
.. „ 10 0/-
„ II 13/-
Up to £5O.
Send for the Silver Enjlish Lever 4 0/-
4 10/-
5 0/-
5 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0/-
Scnd f. r the Silver Wal.ham Wateh2 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS T3IS CHANCE.
A handsome Oiiental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lirgra’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 471 George-street, opposite
the Markets.
oriental bold company.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Mr. Egmont Hake, the aooomplished
nephew of that illustrious and pluoky crank,
** Chinese” Gordon, will, according to the Sydney
Doubtful Paternity. —Whose is the—Policy?
HIS WORSHIP: “BUT, SURELY, YOUNG WOMAN, YOU DON’T WANT TO ACCUSE ALL THESE PARTIES?”
D.T., shortly leave England for Australia with a
view to stumping this bleeding country with a
lecture about his deceased uncle—who, by the
way, may bo said to have been at the bottom of
our expenditure cf £l5O 000 of lawful cornstalk
money over Uie Sou-usui goat-battue. That©have
been so many conflicting reports regarding the
capture of Khartoum that it is gratifying to find
that there is at last a prospect of our getting at
the real facts. Just now the matter stands thus.
The last struggle was commenced by Gordon, who
salliedjjforth at the head of his garrison, and
slaughtered the Arabs to the last man, and took
all the rest prisoners. Scarcely half the army
escaped, and the Mahdi, who was amoDg the dead,
was brought into the city and publicly executed,
Next day the Arab leader burning to ayenge this
disaster, assailed Khartoum, and carrying the eity
by storm, made an indiscriminate massacre of the
garrison and inhabitants, not one being spared,
Gordon was slain at the first onslaught, but
haviDg afterwards succeeded in rallying his troops
he drove out the Arabs and haled the Mahdi with
his own hand. This defeat preyed so muoh on the
mind of the Prophet that he was struck by light-
ning and died of cholera. The same evening he
committed suicide, and next morning wa« seized
with a severe attack],of measles which speedily
carried him off. He also perished during the
ensuing week of croup, scarlatina ."growing pains,
whooping cough, and extreme old age, and hav-
iog been still-born, he was laid in the grouDl
with appropriate ceremony. A severe cold,
which he caught about this time, prevented
him resuming active operations for some days,
and a distraint for rent added to tbe diffi-
cultits of the Art.b army. A council ot war
was held to discuss the advisability of abandon-
ing the siege, but Osman Digna haying arrived


by the mixed train at 3 45, it was resolved to re-
new the attack. This assault, however, was no
more successful than the last, and the Mahdi’s
irritation was so extreme that he was turned into
a pillar of salt, while Osman rushed down a strep
place into the sea and they gathered up the
fragments of him—lo baskets full. Next day
Khartoum was captured, and Osman Digna
hanged himself upon a gallows 40 cubits high, and
the Mahdi died o f apoplexy, and convulsions, and
leprosy and lumbago, and teething, and com-
mencad his march upon Cairo. Gordon was
killed after his heroic defence, but having made
his escape, h 8 fled to Central Africa, and still oon-
tinues’to hold Khartoum with indomitable valour
agaiast overwhelm’ ng odds. The latest telegrams
announcß there never was such a place Fur-
ther d tails are expected very shortly, and the
police have a due to the perpetrator of the out-
rage.
* • •
The thirteenth T arliament of Viotoria was
opened by commission on March 16th, and imme-
diately adjourned until June Ist. "Speaking
plainly,” Bays the Melbeurne Herald, "Parlia-
ment has been assembled for the swearing ia of
members, in order that they may commence to
draw their salaries without a moment’s necessary
delay.”
“ Decency” has been writing to the Mel-
bourne Age comp'aining of “ the intolerable an-
noyance which gentlemen are compelled to endure
day after day at the Brighton baths through
women and girls taking up their quarters close to
the fence.” As poor “Decency” has decided to
“ abandon the baths till this long-standing griev-
ance is removed,” and as we don’t think it will be
removed so long as girls are girls, we would mildly
suggest a compromise:—
We crave your Christian pity
For a man of Melbourne city
Who suffers ’neath a cruel social wrong;
Let us give some explanation
Of his dreadful situation
In a sad and sentimental little song.
Now th’S party (call him Howell)
Likes to take a Turkish towel!
And sally to the seashore for a swim;
A portion sma'l is feeced in,
Reserved for keeping gents, in,
;Whieh is, of course, the proper place fo,r him.
But when he goes a swimmin’
He has noticed that the “ wimmin ”
Get looking through the palings all the while,
As though much interested
In the manly form divested
Of garments (in the early Bien style).
This bashful son of Adam
Doesn’t like the eyes of madam
Fixed upon bim-no, he doesn’t think it right;
And he blushes deepest crimson
As, disgustedly, he swims on,
Or dives to keep his figure out of sight.
But, despite his molest blushing,
The wom.nkiLd keep rushing
To the margin of the ocean every day;
They take up cosy quarters,
Close against those sacred waters,
And watch him while their little s'sters play.
Poor H. unhappy made is
By this habit of the iadi s -
His anger and his s tame are most intense;
He finds it past all bearitg
That they always should be staring
With suoh calm delibenatlon through the fence.
So he put a letter solemn
In the corrtsponden ee column
Of a prper stating plainly that no more
Would he ever thinking of bathiDg
While the ladies kept behaving
In that giddy sort of w ay upon the shore.
Now, dear womenkind of Brighton,
Unless you want to frighten
This gentleman away, you can’t do lesß
Than ask him for his measure
(He’ll give it you with pleasure)
And make him up a decent bathiny dress.
Then, with everything de riyueur,
H® can swim around with vigour,
And never funk your g-ze a little bit;
You can take yeur usual places,
And ad nire his manly graces—
But mind you make the bathing dress a fit.
» * •
It is all very well for the gifted Alfred, of
the T. and C. Jernil. who was just emerged from
the aiiitocratic atmosphere of Vere de Vere
gardens, to on his arrival, essay, at one fell
swoop, to civilise us. But, let him think of himself
before he could flit across the herring-pood at will,
and absorb civi.iz’.'lqr. at the fathionab.e fount of
nenniker! Does he remember the time when he
was a yegular customer up the crazy stairs of
the Crown and Anchor, and we used together to
have four courses and “a loDg shandy” for a
shilling ? It would seem not, aDyhow, for there ia
an article by, or perhaps inspired by-any how,
printed under the auspices of-Alfred in last
week’s T. and C. Jernil, which can only be re-
garded as a cruel specimen of either his wilful
forgetfulness or his polished cynicism. It is not
without feelings of alarm at our old friend's
audacity that we gingerly quote from the con-
tribution. “Don’t,” says Alfred (the “knocker”
of him!)—"Don't st etch across your neigh-
bour’s plate in order to reach anything. ”
This! and he, too, with a distinct recollection of
dinners at which when you said: “Slide down
the cruet,” there was an indignant snort; and
when you cried: the silt,” there was a
fight. You would think he would stop here, and
go on his knees with a borrowed candle for for-
giveness; but, astonishing to state, he appears to
grow bolder as he proceeds. “ Don't,” he writes,
* Put your knife ia the butter.” This, too, witi
an uncomfortable remembrance of having, for
long years, feasted daily in restaurants where to
demand a butter-knife meant forcible ejection,
and where the man who incautiously let fall the
word M table-napkin ” would hive been made a
seoond Ravaillac of I Oh, Alfred! But let us
plunge our face int i a quart-pot to hide our
blushes. Blushes for the deserter.
- * * *
Now that the Duchess of Connaught, ac-
cording to a cablegram in the daily papers, has
been safely delivered of a daughter, the military
career of that gallant paladin, her husband (out-
side of sentry-counting t t Windsor.), n ay be said
to be at an end. His Koyal Highness, with this
addition to his family, will have no time, now, to
uphold the honour of his suffering country by
potting niggers abroad. All his leisure will be
taken up for the next year or so by shovelling in
the pap. There is one comfort, however!—His
Royal Highness's reputation as an intrepid
sdbreur has been fully established ever Binoe he
charged the Egyptian rebels at the head of his
squadron at the battle of BaBbi-Burgoo There is
a full page portrait of it in the Graphic, and the
slaughter is depicted as being terrific; the Duke
sitting his charger apparently unmoved with a
Boy-on-the-burning-deck expression of counte-
nance. It seems, however, that this pleasant pic-
ture was not to go unchallenged. Rumour has it
that Prince Arthur previous to starting out on
tbe campaign, had quarrelled with his impe-
cunious relative, the Duke of Tick, owing to his
Serene Highness‘B persistence in conferring upon
the Princess Mary the decoration of the boot; and,
after the battle in question, Tick (who was a
Postmaster-General to the forees) put it about
that duriDgr the charge he had, by the Queen’s
orders, kept his Cousin of Connaught locked up in
the main postal bungalow until all the damage
was over, and that his Serene Highness himsc’f
headed the sanguinary charge. He further said
that, when all was quiet, Pi in c« Arthur was banded
a battered shako and a notched cutlass, and
told to mount and spread himself out as much as
possible. This is a gross libel, of course, upon the
lioyal General oi Brigade; and it doubtless only
attracted attention at the time in consequence of
the fact being undeniable that the Duke of Tick,
in spite of his little domestic feibles, was a real
soldier.
• B •
The Lord Bishop of Madagascar appears
to be in no paitieular hurry to reach the city of
Mollygoaisy and commence his diocesan duties
for the doctor is still amongst us in Bydney; and
only last Sunday, preached before the congrega-
tion of St Potts with much effect, to the text, we
understand, of “ Put money in thy puree;” the
hat being sent whizzing round directly after the
sermon, with results of a satisfactory na’ure
This circumstance will,' doubtless, have the effect
of putting Dr. Kestell-Cornish in lees of a hurry
to leave us than ever; and if the Y.M.C.A. boys
would unite together and get up some sports in
aid of the mission—with foot-racing and a totali-
sator—we would not surprised to find his lord-
ship settling down upon a water-frontage, and
scouring the soul of the Malagasian nigger from
the shores of Balmain—or Darling Point. The
doctor is practically unencumbered. As he says,
he has “ only 10 men with him, one of whom was
h's son, who was acting without any salary.” Au.
besom, then, the doctor could tend all or some of
this snug little band of apostles,nigger-converting;
though, if he take our advice, his lordship will
hang on to at least a couple of them, in view of
their being required later to perform upon the
wood-heap and to execute fantasias upon the
well-winch. We don’t mind saying right out, that
if we were the Doctor, we would’nt go I The
Madagascar niggers are getting on very well
without him, and he would be far more com-
fortable here, occupied with his little building
society during the week, and his little apostolic
tank (he could easily run one up) on Sundays. One
sternly significant fact is that his lordship has
already been called upon by nine sewing-machine
agents and the American lightning-rod man,—the
scent of the latter for buildings about to sprout
being marvellous. His lordship’s party, we may
remark, is socially popular; and, in answer to an
enquiry instituted at the boarding-house at which
they are residing, their landlady replied, in
quavering tones, that the rev. gentlemen were in
health and spirits.
* * •
“ Mabel Pride, a governess, aged 21, having
no lawful means of support, was sent to gaol for
one month," by a N.B.W. Bench, recently. And is
it for this our girls are made “young ladies?” Miss
Pride got a month’s gaol. She had no “lawful
means of support.” Is not the occupation of a
governess lawful? Her parents should now bo
brought to the same court and given seven years
for being accessories before the act. Had they
| taught her to bake, wash, cook, mangle, mend, &c.»
Mabel had probably now been earning her good
15s. weekly with a mistress to bounce and a uni-
formed lover. They taught her to governess and
she goes to gaol. Out on our high notions; let
common sense have an occasional chance. The
harp:—
It were better lor the woman if in early youth
she’d died,
And slept where daisies blossomed o’er the grave
of “ Mabel Prije;”
Better for her that the News post mortem man had
tolled her knell:—
“ Dearest Mabel, how we miss thee, none but
bleeding hearts can tell.”
Better this had been her portion—though the verse
were hard to bear -
Than be cast within a prison cell, a felon’s lot to
share:
For a simple crime convioted—but the crime of
being poor—
Still a stigma rests upon her, she may honest be
no more.
In a month her penance ended when the gaping
world she meets—
Well, one less within the prison—p’raps one more
upon the streets.
* * *
Says the Melb. Herald Thirty-three
years ago Duncan Gillies and Peter Lalor, the
present Premier and Speaker of the Victorian
Parliament, were worhiEg a rich mine together
at Ballarat. Give us the keynote G on the trom-
bone—
Biue-shlrted and gay, the Herald doth say,
Tnat Duncan and Peter of old,
In laborious way punched away at pipeclay,
In search of the glittering gold.
They hit on it rich, a fact over which
We’ll neither despute now nor row,
But we bet a new hat, and liquor round, that
They’re working a rioher mine now.
THE BUSINESS OF THE HOUSE.
A Senate House, we’ve often beard our worthy
fathers state,
Was where a lot of people met to talk and legislate:
A building IcDneecrated to the making of our
laws—
Or rather, where some made 'em, and the others
“ spotted” flaws.
But times are altered, men are changed, and poli-
tics, we flud,
Are scarcely what they were in days our fathers
called to mind;
For senators aesemble now with nothing else in
view
Than getting duly qualified to go land draw their
“ screw.”
The we lfare of the colony they have at heart at
times—
But two ever present questions are the dollars and
the dimes;'
Thera’s business and business, their country's and
the’r own—
So the latter is transacted while the former’s left
alone.
But does the public suffer when the "members”
take a rest
From their Parliamentary duties ? It must really
be confessed
We think it would be better if those members
drew thedr pay
On th 9 simple understanding that they always
kept away.
WHAT THE STAGE NEEDS IS NEW IDEAS.
We Offer a Few Suggestions, Free of Charge.
This style of fall is becoming monoto-
nous on the stage.
Why not try this for a change ? It
would be much more thrilling.
Then there is that tiresome old escape
from prison by a rope.
This would be much quicker, and
would bring down the house.
Instead of the conventional way of de-
livering a stage message—
Let us have something otigiual,
like this.
When the hero is killed, why does he
aiways come out before the curtain
and bow i
Let him be carriel out like this, to
keep up the realism of the thing,
THE VIRTUE OF GIN.
They christened her Belle
Twenty short years ago;
The baby was fair
And the curls of her hair
All so prettily fell
On her forehead of snow.
At the foot of a hill,
In a flower-gemmed dell,
Her first years passed away,
And so softly, that ihey
Nought had seemed to instill
Bat the tale flowers tell.
Just away to the North
The strange quivering glare
Of a great city’s gas
Seemed to beckon th 9 lass,
And she gaily tripped forth
To the lights bursting there.
But bright rays waxed pale
When a twelvemcnth had fled,
And her spirit grew weak,
Though a daub lit her cheek;
But it naught could avail
Por a heart that was dead,
Nor a life that was sunk
In the despond of sin;
And sho shivered with dread
Just to think of those dead—
Then sailed off and got drunk—
’Tis the virtue of gin.
A really smart lad was summoned at a
Melbourne court, last week, lor a driving over—or
knocking down-an old lady. He had to make a
defenoe of some sort or another, and was looking
round the room for inspiration when his eyes
lighted on what appeared to be a bunch of imita-
tion fruit in the old lady’s bonnet. The lad
glibly explainer that his horse was “ vetry fond of
fruit,” aud had madly dashed at the bonnet and
knocked down the weartr. Alas! the bonnet
trimming turned out to be Beraciums, and the
youthful genius was mulct of half a sovereign.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
Without preliminary paper warfare, the
boxers ‘ Professor ” Jackson and Michael Dooley,
have arranged to meet In a five-round encounter,
Queensberry rules, next Saturday night, at Foley’s
Hall. Boxing matches between the lesser lights
of the ring have been plentiful as blackberries
during the past few months, but t v e meeting be-
tween the two big-’uns will, no doubt, prove the
event of the season. Jackson, we believe, is the
more scientific of the pair, but he now scales over
13 stone, and his ocoupation of hotelkeeper is
all against his being in anything like con-
dition. Dooley, on the contrary, is in very
good “ kip,” and if he hangs on to the “ Pro-
fessor” for three or four rounds, condition
should tell its tale, and the fifth round
prove more equal than any of its predecessors.
Jackson, who is a regular giant, graduated from
the Foiey stable, ana Dooley, a fine young six-
footer, little more than out of his teens, scaling
some 11 stone and a half in condition, has
been under Foley's eye for some months past, and
the meeting between two such big—and better
still—good men, may be looked forward to with
more than usual interest. Going from the “Jum-
bos” to l he “Bantams,” Murphy, the N Z. light
weight, the other night gave forth that he was
willing to meet Jack Hall, but we do not
think there is any occasion for the Maori
to fly at such high game, as George Powell is
now in Sydney aad eager for the fray. Peter
Jackson also has a “novice,” who, we dare say,
would like to try his hand at knocking the stuffiag
out of Mr. Murphy. We have seen a few “flash ”
boxers in our time, but Mr. Murphy is, without
doubt, the rowdiest piece of goods we ever saw
don the mittens. However, should he ever drop
in for a very bad quarter of an hour with one of
the Sydney lightweights, the Maoiilander maybe
persuaded to see the error of his ways.
* ■ #
At Foley’s Hall, George-street, on Satur-
day night, there was an unusually large attend-
ance, the fancy fight of the evening being the
battle between young Hall and Fogarty. Frank
and a friend opened the ball with a fast four
rounds spin, and were followed by Waller and
Murphy, the New Zealand light-weight, who seems
to look upon the sport of the ring as something of
a farce, though seme smart work was got in by
both. Young Fuller and a darkey fought four
rounds in favour of the white man. Nolan and
Frank, two old antagonists, sparred a couple of
lively rounds, and the latter, by way of showing
his satisfaction with the sport, threw a few active
somersaults round the ring. This innovation may
be the dawning of a new era in boxing, the pre-
cursor of a general game of ground and lofty
sparring, with the free use of the trapeze as
a get-away from fast fightiDg. Foley, who
seems to have a knack of picking up cham-
pions, had a four rounds’ bout with a Taree
knocker-out who at the end of the battle
was no longer champion of Tare©. Hall and
Fogarty’s entrance to the ring induced the ap-
plause of the audience, who knew the former had
laid £3O to £2O on the fight and was set to win.
Ml through the mill he had just a little the best of
it, land the referee declared at the finish in his
favour. Jack Thompson, who filled the somewhat
thankless office of judge, is too thorough a
SDOrtsman to make any mistake. The demonstra-
tion of dissatisfaction which followed his declara-
tion in favour of Hall were altogether uncalled
for. Dave Ingram officiated as master of cere-
monies.
* * *
It looks bad when the workman begins to
find fault with his tools. Hanlan is credited with
having said that last season he spent over £2OO on
racing boats, without obtaining one to suit him.
* * *
The intercolonial eight-oar crew were out
for a spin on the Parramatta on Saturday, Mr.
Wimble taking the seat of Mr. Johnson, who was
resting. It was the second time the men had been
together in the eight fitted up under Mr. Brett’s
supervision, and, as might be expected, they would
not stand a microscopic inspection. A big mistake
is being made in one of the eight coaching the crew,
and we hope for alteration before it is too late.
Mr. Brett is all that his ad rdrers claim for him—a
thorough “general,” a finished oarsman, and
second to none amateur or professional, in filling
up a crew, but even such qualifications as these
cannot be of service to him when rowing number
two as on Saturday last, and attempting to coach
bow, Mr. Robertson, who requires as much look-
ing after as any man in the boat. The Victorians
have finally picked the following eight:—Stroke,
R. D. Booth, 12*t.; 7. C. A. Champion, list. 121 b.;
6. C. A. P- Moline, list. 103 t.; 5. A. Charnley, 12st.
2lb. 4 S. H. Gowdie, list ; 3. W. Leverett. list,
lib.; 2. F. J. Taylor, lOst 101 b.; bow, E. R. Ainley,
lOst. slb. The full weight of the crew is 91st. lib.,
and the average is therefore 115t.5%1b.; the stroke
oars weigh in the aggregate 45st. 61b, and the
bows 45st. 91b.; so that the two sides should be
splendidiv balanced as regards power. Of this
crew “Visor,” in the Australasian, says:—
“ With respect to the personnel of seven of the
crew, there is no doubt the committee could not
have done much better, and it is a pity they should
have made a mistake in the choice of the eighth.
F. J. Tavlor, No. 2, rowed bow in the 1884 crew,
and No. 2 in April last, and, though his form is
good, his rowiog this year is not up to the stan-
dard of his comrades, as it is wanting in the essen-
tials of life, dash, and power, and he himself in
stamina. Every man‘goes off ’ occasionally, and
this is apparently the case with Mr. Tayior at the
present time.” As usual, the Oxford and Cam-
bridge eights knock spots of the colonial crews
for “ beef.” The former scales 97st. and the
latter totals 96st. 121 b.
* ® *
Frank Smith’s Botany Handicaps have
kept on the improving list since his first effort, and
the one concluded on Saturday last outstripped
any of its predecessors. Mr. Bmith, we hear,
netted abo -it £2OOO on his elaborately organised
venture. The hackneyed “glorious uncertainty
of the turf ” might well give place to the “ glorious
uncertainty of the Sheffield Handicap.” for it is
far more difficult to name the winner of a Sheffield
Handicap than to “place” the horses in a Mel-
bourne Cup. Joe Byrne F. Rogers
(13yds.), G. G. Whitney (13yds.), and M. Morrissey
(14yd*.), were left in the final, Whitney being
looked upon as “amoral” at 7to 4 on. Twenty
yards from home the unthought of 20 to 1 chance
(Byrne) came away from the field and beat Rogers
by a couple of yards, Whitney, a yard away, third,
and Morrissey brought up the rear.
* * «
On Monday evening, at Sydney Tatter-
sails Mr Frann Smith paid over the pr;ze money
asunder to the successful competitors:—Joe W.
Byrne. Ist prize (handicap), £l5O and champion
belt* T. Rogers, 2nd prize (handicap), £3O and
silver chronograph; G. G. Wnitney. 3rd prize
(handicap), £3O and 6 sovs. trophy from Jack
Thompson ; M. Morrissey, 4th prize (handicao),
£lO (and 4 sovs. J. Thompson), and Ist prize
(hurdle race), £25-£35 ; Tom Budd, winning two
heats, £5; C. T. Hogan, winning two heats, £5; T.
Gagen, winn ng two heats, £5; J. B. M M’Mahon,
winning two beats, £5: J. Knox, 2nd prize (hurdle
race), £10; J. Logan, 3rd prize (hurdle race), £5:
total, £270.
* * *
On Saturday, Mr. Cameron’s craok 20-
footer, Genesta, finished first in the race for half-
deckers in connection with the Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club, but in all probability the race will be
sailed over again. The Wanganella and Blaine
w<-re the other starters. The Elaine came to grief
and the Wanganella, which had right minutes’
handicap, stopped to give assistance, thereby
throwing away whatever show she may have had
oi winning the race.
0 ■« *
One Colonel Vandeleur, a Munster man,
was recently boycotted by the land leaguers of
hi district, and notices were posted calliug upon
p ople to t revent hi 3 horses running. Oae of his
hmses wa« H r'-away. Torough the efforts of an
agent of Vandeleur, Hark" w "- v itP face and
legs were painted brown, aou«*b..*v.g- rider in a
frieze ejat was put in the saidle. »ie crowd was
outwitted, and Hirkaway won the race. Discover-
ing the trick the boycotters became exasperated,
and whon the jockey, Lynch, who had ridden
Harkaway, came out on Stella, a filly from the
same stable, the crowd assailed him with sticks
and stones, pulled him off his horse, and beat him
brutally.
* . * *
W. G. George, ex-champion amateur
runner of England, was at latest over in the States,
where he has offered to run any man in America
from 1000 yards up to 10 miles, for any reasonable
stake.
* * *
Malone, the well-known pedestrian, must
be improving in his work, for we are told by the
Centra.i, Australian that, at Carcoar, on Mon-
day, the champion “cleared 20ft, lOin. in a running
high Jump.”
* * *
Matthews, the Yankee boxer, who worked
the free ad. racket to death in N.Z. and Australia,
is up to his old tricks in America. At latest he
was out with a challenge to box John L. Sullivan,
but there is no occasion to strike for such high
gam», as Jack Bourke c ffers to fight all comerp,
bar Sullivan, for £lOOO or £2OOO aside. Be cheap
advertising, Dempsey, the American slogger,
managed to have no less than 156 challenges in-
serted in Yankee papers last year, which moun-
tain of' defls gave birth to but one poor little
mouse of a fight.
* * *
A marvellous jump was made by Patch-
work while being schooled at Cheltenham (Vic)
a week or so ago. Fred Hill was the rider, and
the leap seemed such a wonderful one that a tape
was immediately obtained, and it was found to be
no less than 35ft. 2in. Chandler’s celebrated jumo
at Leamington steeplechases on March 22, 1817,
was 37ft.
* * *
The Albury steeplechase proved rather a
lively affair. Excelsior broke his neck at the first
jumo and gave J. Smith a severe shaking: The
Masher came to grief at the last and had to be
destroyed ; and Dispatch came a cropper—
Gardiner and Douglas, the resDective riders,
escaping with a few bruises. £lB was collected
for the jockey Smith.
* * *
Now that critiques appear so often in the
papers respecting the performances of a certain
well-known Melbourne pugilist, it has been in-
cumbent upon the man of muscle to acquire the
science of reading, and he has therefore ergaged
the services of the Ballarat Chicken until such
a time as he (the prominent pug ,) shall be able to
collar and throw with great violence a complete
number of Bell’s Life in London. We were the
great boxer’s tutor once when he was a member
of the crowd at a certain No. 2 theatre and de-
lighted the elite of Christchurch with his classical
and elegant performance of Charles the Wrestler.
We forget the passage just now, but we think be-
fore tackling Orlando Charles’s lines are as follow:
Step forth, that I may cast thee to the birds
That chirrup on the branches.
Our pupil studied these (or the other) lines for six
months, but the nearest he could ever get to them
was “Come on with yez,” whieh used to gain him
three rounds of apolause every evening. We
took a lot of pains with the youDg man, but it was
of no use. B O X—box he learned beautifully;
but wnen informed that SOCKS was sox, be
thought Universes were leagued together to
prevent his ever being a soholard. We left, we
remember, without creating a disturbance.
* * *
When it became known that L. Abrams,
the hon. sec. of the Junior C. A. had sent in bis
resignation (the supposed reason for so doing
being that he was disappointed at not being
elected manager of the N.S.W. Junior Eleven) a
great many scouted the idea of there being any
earnestness in his action. And the result of the
proceedings on the 17th inst. at the special meet-
ing of delegates proved these anticipations to be
correct, as when he found that plenty ethers
could be found to fill the post he did not require
much persuasion to withdraw his resignation.
• * *
The late Mayor of Sydney said at the end
of last season that the footballers would be alio wed
to commence business a month earlier than usual
this year. But this, it now seems, is not to be;
the junior cricketers are to occupy Moore Park
nine months out of the 12.
* * *
Judging from the recent selection of a
captain for the M.C.C. representative Australian
Eleven it would appear that a candidate for the
captaincy must have “ the gift of the gab ” as
well as a knowledge of the game. What show has
the gentlemanly Alick B. or the sociable Joey
Palmer of ever gaining this coveted honour?
* * *
It has been given out by Charley Banner-
man that he does not intend to follow the noble
game any more after the expiration of the present
cricket season.
• * *
The Sydney football clubs playing the
Australasian game all promise to be very much
stronger next season than they were last. A
team visits Victoria in May to try its strength
against the Cabbage-Gardeners, when the Sydney-
ites, no doubt, will be smitten hip and thigh for
their temerity.
* * •
Our own Miller and the immortal Donald
Dinnie are small potatoes in the weight-lifting
department compared with Angelo Cardelia, of
Nevada. ADgelo can lift a man of 2001 b. witn the
middle finger of his right hand The man has to
stand with one foot on the floor, then he stretches
out his arms at full length, and his hands are
grasped by two persons to preserve his equili-
brium. When he is fixed in that interesting atti-
tude, Angelo puts his finger under the elevated
foot, and lifts the man 4ft. in the air. Whether
the two “supporters” give any assistance, on the
sly, we shouldn’t like to say. The remarkable
thing about these men of muscle, though, is that
they can raise anything in reason—except capital.
* * *
It has been suggested that at the beginning
of each season the Mikados o* the Cariingford
Cricket Club should be furnished by the secre-
taries of the other clubs with a list of names, and
asked to tick off those against whom they objected
to play. This would save the waste of much time
during matches ; it would also protect the delicate
nerves of the noblemen belonging to the club
named from much unnecessary tension.
* * *
. A peculiar circumstance worth recording
happened in connection with the match between
the second eleven of the Marrickville and Bt.
Peter’s Surry cricket clubs, played at Marrickville
on 13th inst. ueynoids, a player on the former
side, went in third wicket down, and although he
oarried out his bat and saw over 50 runs added to
the total, he, curiously enough, did not get a
single “ strike.”
* * *
Some of the worthy patrons of Australian
trotting races may congratulate themselves upon
the moderation of the public. A scandalous
swindle was perpetrated at Elsternwick Park last
week in a so-called trotting “ match.” The leading
man deliberately pulled up his horse in order to
let the other fellow win, and was promptly dis-
qualified by the stewards “ for all time.” The riff-
raff who attend trotting races in England make it
UECommonly warm for this class of sportsman,
and no one who valued his health would attempt
such a barefaced pud as that at Elsternwick It is
a pity that these miserable barneys are allowed to
form pare oi au otherwise buainets-iike pro-
gramme.
» « »
How many races are annually thrown
a way through the jockeys “ dra wing it too fine ? ”
At Elsternwick P»rk (Vic.), on Bt. Patricks Day,
a case in point nearly occurred. In the Share-
holders’ Cup, O’Brien only brought up his mount,
Gardenia, just in time to make a dead heat with a
tlree-year-o'd named Achmet. It was a palpable
case of waiting- too loDg. and in the run off, Gar-
denia, with odds of 3to 1 on, won easily. One of
the most accomplished jockeys in England—Tom
Cannon -is constantly losing races by a short
head, owing to his weakness for an “artistic
finish.”
« ■ •
The Eclipse Stakes of £lO,OOO, to be run at
San down Park, in July, is evidently regarded by
backers as an event in which they can depend on
a straight run for their money. Some weeks back
it appears that three horses were backed at even
money against the field. The great gun, St.
Gatien, was one of the selected trio.
• m a
Sir William Clarke’s small stud must be
about the worst paying portion of his vast pro-
perty. Even at sueh a minor meeting as Kyneton
the rich Bart.’s representatives oontrived to get
badly beaten in three events. Tf he really takes
any interest in the sport, the Victorian Crcesus
might lay out a little of his “sugar” in blood
stock before he returns from England. It is one
of a rich man’s privileges that he can, with good
luck, buy a horse that will make his name famous,
if nothing else. The sporting world of future
generations will speak of Vanderbilt, for instance,
as the owner of Maud S. Although his money
didn’t make the mare to go, it bought the mare
when she did go, hence his name will always be
irradiated by a sort of reflected equine glory.
Wealthy mediocrities should remember this.
* * *
James Edwards, the Melbourne boat-
builder, has taken a well-earned rest, and went
home by the Austral for a visit to his native land,
from whioh he set forth 33 years ago. Edwards
promises to attend any raoes Beach may pull in
England or America.
* ■ *
The Balmain R.C.’s annual regatta came
off on Saturday last, on the noble sheet of water
in front of the club. Maiden double-sculls, junior
and senior fours, senior pair oars, and maiden
fours were gone through, and J. Langley, A.
Eraser, and J. H. Bead, faced the music for the
president s cup, rowed in outriggers. J. Langley
rowed in really good form, and led from start to
fiDish. The trophy has to be won three times.
Mr Langley has now two wins to his credit, and
should he retain his present form, he is pretty
sure to Anally annex the trophy.
* * *
Says an English paperPeall, the bil-
liardist, who already holds more records than any
otner player, has added another to his list. In
antagonising Roberts in a game of 13,000 up, spot
barred, the champion presented him with 4000
start. Peall showed rather indifferent form in the
afternoon, but made amends for this later on In a
break of 330, making all but 98 without the assis-
tance of the white ball, or 233 off the red. This
completely put the previous beat in the shade,
Roberts having subscribed 156 when playing
Joseph Bennett last year, and tnus Peall has added
66 on the record.
Woman Tiems
“ Women and cows shouldn’t run.” This
neat aphorism, by Mark Twain, should be a crusher
for the Sydney lady cricketers.
“Isn’t my photograph excellent?” she
said. “ Well, my dear,” replied he, “ I think
there’s a little too much reposB about the mouth.”
Mrs. Washington de Phipps: “ 1 never
could Jie on pillows except they had frills.” Mrs.
Montague Sword: “Perhaps you only lie on the
frills.”
Ma, may Igo and fish ? Well, you may if
you must; but mind you don’t go near the water;
and if you wet your feet or get drowned I’ll give
you a good whipping and send you to bed without
your supper.
“As for love,” wrote Disraeli, when a
young man, to his sister (his letters to her have
just been published), “ all my friends who married
for love and beauty either beat their wives or
live apart from them. This is lite ally the case.
Marrying for love is a guarantee of infelicity.”
“Beauty unadorned’s adorned the most,”
he whispered as they courted, and he looked at
her simple frock. And sho believed him, and
thought it was the most lovely line ever written
by a poet. But her faith in that line went out
suddenly when, quoting it agaio, he practioaliy
illustrated it by pawning all her jewellery.
First bridesmaid: “You’ll never tell?”
Second bridesmaid: “Of oourse not. I never do
you know.” First bridesmaid: “ Well, she told me
in strict confidence, that, though Jack was poor,
they were going to travel for a while and stop at
the best places, and that they got their money by
Silling their wedding presents. I wonder if my
spoons are paying part of the expenses ? ’
The energetic and enthusiastic little gen tie-
man who is popularly known as the “Hat-full of
cricket” has graciously promised to allow his
team of ladies to give another cricket exhibition
on the Sydney Association Ground on the sth
prox. This time the proceeds will be handed to
the charities, and we snail then see how many of
the select assemblage that patronised the first
match will roil up when an admission fee is
charged.
The latest duty of a magistrate would
seem to be to decide what share of the bedclothes
a wife is entitled to. Baker, J.P. of Kochester,
England, deemed the matter to > delicate for
magisterial decision, and referred the aggrieved
woman to a lawyer. So novel and piquant a case
should rival “Jarndyce v. Jarndyce ’ in length
and a more recently notorious trial in popularity.
Well worked up by a couple of smart banisters
gifted with the power of repartee, the Great
Blanket Case might develop into a screaming
farce.
A number of Birmingham firms have been
recently engaging female cashiers, who naturally
come for less wages than men, and these unhappy
women are required to be in their desks from 8 45
a.m. to 8 p.m. If absent on any pretext whatever
from their desks duriog the day a half-crown fine is
imposed; their meals are served to them at their
posts; they are responsible for any deficiency in
the cash; and for this genteel slavery they receive
the handsome remuneration of sj. a week. How-
ever, as Her Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria has
just given £5OO for the reliefer hard-up people,
things will soon be put right.
The utmost depth of woman’s curiosity
was fully satisfied in a country distriot of Tas-
mania the other day. An old man who had occu-
pied a hut for many years was missed from hia
usual haunts, and the door of his habitation was
found to be securely fastened from the inside
Many guesses were hazarded as to his probable
fate, and the local police were as dilatory as usual
about acting in the matter. The nearest neigh-
bour-a woman (possessing even more curiosity
than mo3t of her sex)—determined to have a pri-
vate investigation on her own account. She pro-
cured a ladder, rested it against the wall of the
dilapidated shanty, mounted it, and thrust her
head through an opening in the roof, thereby
finding herself face to face nearly touching the
missing h id hanged himself to a rafter.
Her descent of the ladder broke all previous re-
cords.
A London story. A was a young man in a
horse regiment who fell in love with B, the
daughter of an opulent merchant. He grew tired
of her, and when his regiment was ordered to the
East, he left her without explanation. Return-
ing home with more dust than medals on his coat
5 , iP ed and weat to a ball, where B was the
daintiest among the beauties. They danced, and
she showed no resentment on the score of past
faithlessness. Pressed by A* she gave him an
appointment at a certain church near her father’s
house, which had been their trysting-place in
other days. A went happily to his club, and his
old friend Major C offered him a cigar. “I met
Lucy B this evening,” said A, and he told this
friend of the appointment she had given him.
The major expressed no surprise, but said that
Lucy was a good and forgiving girl—for he knew
what had gone before. A went to the church on
the day named, and there was a wedding. When
the ceremony was over, B, the bride, came out of
the church on the arm of Major C, the bridegroom.
A went home to his lodgings.
r ‘ , Hari T Lynch, of the Bellringers,
seems, by reason (we suppose) of his multitudi-
nous fascinations, to have “ got round ” the
Sunny Corner Press -edited by a lady-in a par-
tioular.y emphatic manner. The critique upon
the performance of the troupe is a little under a
column in length, and of a pleasantly discursive
nature. It prates pleasantly of Mr. Harry Lynch’s
love for Australia” (innocent, of course, of
that warriors quite recently-expressed passion
tor the gunyahl), and accounts for his being
' heart-whole ’ because of his “ not stopping long
enough in one place to have it lacerated.” After
this, all doubts as to the sex of the writer are at
once at an end I Had the copy contained a few
more adjectives, and a trifle of alliteration, we
should have shut our eyes and shrieked out,
Carcoar Mary I” We must own, however, that
after ascii a high-toned phrase as " Neither is it a
case of a woman being at the bottom of Mr.
Lynch’s love,” it savours rather of bathos to
tlnd the company described as a “ steady respectful
Jot. the more especially as their performance of
" Home, sweet Home,” with variations, ” filled the
heart with sympathy and enthusiasm.”
There is trouble and tumult up at Sunny
Corner, N S W., and it’s all on account of that
paper of which Mrs. Agnes E. M'Donald states
with pardonable pride that she is editress and pro-
prietress. Like most editors of the female per-
suasion she runs the paper on “ we-don’t-oare-a-
cuss-for-anyone ” lines. Strange thing this, isn’t
it ? Set a meek and merciful woman up as chief
engineer of a paper and she will at once gather up
her skirt and run amuck of one-half of the world,
while she deluges the other moiety with an
avalanche of slobber. Father Walsh has under-
gone the latest scrunching at the hands of the
lovely Agaes. She caught the unsuspecting man,
hammered him with leading articles, and then
mangled him up with paraaraphs. So that is the
reason why the clouds of conflict overhang the
enterprising township of Mitchell. It is alleged
that, unable to withstand the force of the Silver
Press leaders, Father Walsh has given a free and
effective ad. to the paper by foroidding any of his
flock to take it, but still the wrath of the editress
is not appe sed, and it is certain, from the tone of
her latest issue, that nething less than the head of
the offending priest in a soup-plate will be counted
as atonement. We look for further development
with much interest. Unless a speedy settlement
is obtained Matters at Sunny Corner will be as in-
teresting and lively as morning service in a Graf-
ton Presbyterian chapel.
WARNKR’S » SAFE ” PILLS.- With all of
Warner s Safe Remedies ” use enough of
“ Warner’s Safe Pills” to ensure one or two
bowel movements daily, otherwise but partial re-
sults will be obtained. They are purely vegetable,
do not gripe, and are gentle and effective in action.
They are compounded on the formula of a success-
ful British army physician in India, and are the
Best and Safest Pills in the market. No other pills
can be safely substituted for them.
“NON-SECRET” SUB3TITUTES.-As you value
your health shun all v ie so-called “ non-secret ”
preparations. They are not made by your local
chemist, although his name may be on the
wrapper, but are furnished him ready-made and
wrapp d from America. The chemist daro not say
he knows their contents. He onlv handles them
because he can make a greater profit than on legiti-
mate goods. These goods are “played out,” to
use an Americanism, where best known. An at-
tempt is now being made to foist them on a con-
fiding publio in the colonies. We warn you in all
sincerity to have nothing whatever to do with
them
BE NOT DECBlVKD.—Unscrupulous dealers
whea asked for Warner's Safe Remedies, if
they happen to have none on hand, will endeavour
to palm off somethiDg ofjtheir own, or some other
medicine on their custome-, which they will say is
just as good. Have nothing to do with such men.
They make more on their own preparations is the
reason they offer them in place of Warner’s Safe
Remedies, which have been proved and are known
to do exactly as represented. If the chemists’ pre-
parations are just as good, why have they not long
ago cured Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, and many
other diseases considered incurable by the schools ?
Be not deceived; insist on having what you ask
' or * your ohemist,will not trouble himself to
get it for you, visit some other shop, and transfer
your trade to a gentleman, and one who respects
your wishes and opinions.
DIABETES CAN BE CURED with Warner’S
Safe Diabetes Cure (another preparation from
Warner’s Safe Cure). Diabetes is a most alarming
disease, ana unless taken promptly in hand there
is no cure. Do not trifle with untried medicines,
but at once procure Warner’s Safe Diabetes
Cure. It has permanently cured when all the
schools and their medicines have failed. If there
is no sediment in your urine, if it is a pale straw
colour, if you are inordinately thirsty, if you make
more than 3 pints of water in 24 hours, you have
the symptoms of Diabetes. B 3 wise in time. Do
not neglect this terrible disease.
If troubled with business cares and over-
work, indulge in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It is noble to do one’s duty, however lowly
it may be ; and Lord Tennyson says, “ It is only
noble to be good.” Tried by these standards,
there is a celebrated crockery establishment in
this city who will not be found wanting in noble-
ness. The address is 403 and 401 George-street, and
the name, Bray Brothers.
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tables to them Wolfe’s Schnapps is recommended
COMPAfiNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STBBKT, SYDNEY.
r HBle&d1 /?* Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor'
Municipal Council of Sydtey, the A.J.C., City Club, &c., &e.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coolmsst, and loftiest In the ooionv
_ FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar —Good Wine List.
&rill c ®n be at any time from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Select your
felt want. Inspection invited. S * room. is is one of the acquisition^)!


GIROFLE
GIROFLA
Home Rule in the Queen’s Household is
facetiously described by a special oorrespondent:
“ i was commanded to appear at headquarters
and make a call upon the Queen. I obeyed the
mandate and took a run down to the
Mr. Gladstone on Tuesday, before the
Parliament. It heiog tbe Chief Lord of the Hat-
Rack and Master of the Front Door s day off, the
portal was opened by his Royal Mr.
Battenberg, who has been appointed Deputy Earl
At Sydney Opera House.
o^
\J\W' Z
Mu^ii/n
Ptl)*°
Don Bolero
O'Ato'Wr^l
«‘1 A of
//V
TtB R 0
K 7 kt
Qnxr? '
of Her Majesty's Front Step, with a selarv of £lO
per annum, which reverts to the Queen in case the
incumbent marries it.to her family. Battenberg
looted well, hut was evidently suffering from a
revere outbreak of huifcra, there being enough
of these upon his ctlicial uniform, as feon-in-Jjaw-
in-Waiting to Her Majesty, to keep a West-end
tailor supplied for a century. ‘ls Y.M. 1. 1j ,
Lady Saxe-Coburg of Guelphtown in, Buttoia-
bertt ? ’ I asked. At the word Buttonberg
the Prince flushed and glanced nervously
at his costume. He betrayed the fact that •,
he was not an Englishman by observing
the facetious bearing of my remark at onee.
• Y M I Lhe repeated tlowly, who is he /
• Ho’anf.t a he ’ I replied. ’I referred to Your
Mother Jn- Law, Her Siejeaty, tbe Lordess of the
Tfarth and Grand High Teetotum ef Calcutta.
®Ob, yes, indeed" ma is home. She is upstairs
watehirg Lord Salisbury write her speech for
Pollymeat.’ ‘You don't mean to say that shes
sroing to speak in Parliament!’ ejiculated Mr.
Gladstone. ‘Oh, I don’t* eh!’ rejoined Batten-
berg ‘Well, I’m glad to hear I don’t, mean to say
that. It’s always a relief for a fellow in mj
position to know just where he rtuids. And he
added s bow ! u ly: Don’t you *>Ver bn a son-in-
law to a Kingets; it’s bad busincaa ’ Just, here the
whistle on tha Imperial speaking tube flew out
and struck against the wall opposite. There she
is again,’ whispered the Prince. She never can
be taught to felot? like an ordinary Queen.
Nothing satisfies her when she wants me
but to blow cut the side of the house.
Why, do you know ’ This sentence was
never finished, for tbe Queen herse f appeared
at. the head of the stairs and called out—
*You, Charles Augustus Fitz William George
Henry Wilhelm Yon Guelfner Rupert Joseph
Austerlhz Battenberg?’ ‘Thats w hat calls
me for short I’ whispered the Prince, and then he
added: * Yes’m.’ ‘ Haven 11 told you not to talk
to beggars in the hail? I wc n't, have your rela-
tione calling at the f’ont doer Yes m ,h,
ma-in-law, here's Mr. Giadste ne and Smith ow .
here ’ ‘ Smith ? Ob, my. I m so glad he 8 come,
tf 11 1 im I 1, te down as toon as I set my crown on
Kr-by the way, ChirJes Augustus Continued-in-
our-next Bat.W nt.eig w b at G Jade tote is l hat, there
are so many of them ?’ Bill. _ Well, tell him m
out and show Smith into the drawing-m.oin. Ic
10 minutes the sylph-like foiui ot 1 he Queen slid
gracefully into tha room, and I had a very pleasant
half-hour’s audience. We talked of literature, the
Queen’s book, Mr. Bradlaugh—whom Battenberg
would cell Bradlaff, being a foreigner and unable
to complj with s<>me of Ihe rfquirements of_our
larguage-the Queens the
Beaconsfield, Leaves from the Highlands, and the
advisability of a brass ftatue to Brown. Brown a
ankles, the Queen said, were so sunburnt that
they’d look very natural in broi ze. In parting,
the Queen expressed a hope that she wculd see me
often She sent me back to town in her own
chVan cab, and as I left the grounds I heard a
shrill voice, uDm.slakably the Queens, Bejwg .
‘You Charles Augustus Fiiz William Her:ry Cisy
Peter B. Sweeney Battenberg, you come up here
find lake an inventory ot Bertie s unit ok ins*
Mi btc some of them will do for you.’ And then
a plaintive wail crept down the carriage-way . If
those Irish really knew what Home Rule wr
they’d stop clamouring for it. It was Batui-cei g
L who spoke.”


Political
Points
Mr. Forsyth, M.L.A., has called the late
N.B.W. Treasurer “Sir John Robertson's man
Faday.’ Mr. Forsyth is UDjust to Mr. Burns.
L >cky Burns can’t be anybody’s man Friday. The
old original Fr-iday left at least one footprint on the
Sind. Cocky never did—and never will.
According to Mr. Ewing, M.L A., Mr.
Humphery is to be Treasurer of the stroncest
Government that shall have appeared in N.S.W
But, as the same speaker is reported to have hinted
that the daily Press is to be bought with rum and
other things, we don’t look very confidently for
the apotheosis of Humphery. It is not stated, but
we suppose Mr EwiDg will be P.emier of this
future phenom'naliy strong Government or—Ban.
O Connor.
The Hon. Edward Langton, aforetime
Treasurer of Victoria, was the only candidate who
openly declared himself a disciple of Adam Smith
on the hustings at the recent general election ia
Victoria. Thi« pronounced Freetrader, therefore,
was defeated in the West Melbourne electorate.
When men who declare their adherence to free-
trade principles in the Southern colony staDd so
J'< vn n the poll, it does not look as if the Vic-
were dissatisfied with the protective
policy that has done so much to advance the
prosperity of the little Cabbage Garden.
Of the many suggestions before the public,
in reference to a scheme of naval defence which
might be applied to Great Britain and her colonies
taken as a whole, the following proposal of the
Montreal branch of the Imperial Federation
League is not the least worthy of consideration.
Its terms are that a duty of 5 per cent, should be
imposed by the colonies and Great Britain on
foreign goods of all kinds, over and above the or-
dinary Customs tariff, the amount thus raised to
be devoted to the maintenance of an Imperial
navy for the common defence. It is calculated
that under this scheme the colonies would pay 10
per cent, of the annual cost of the navy.
At the Irish demonstration, at Botany, on
the 17ch inst., several patriots delivered
“ orations ”to those present At the conclusion of
the speeches someone called for ‘ cheers for Par-
nell,” another called for “cheers for Gladstone,”
and another for “cheers for Michael Davitt.”
Then a certain irrepressible blatherskite stepped
forward and called for “cheers for Her Majesty the
Queen.” A few groans were heard in response, as
well an feeble cheers. Some people thought the
groans were for the Queen, but they were mis-
taken. The groans were intended for the offen-
sive toadyism which intruded its alleged loyalty
UDor»;the sympathies of the meeting at such a
time.
“Editor Bulletin.— Can you tell me
what are the opinions of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph? A few weeks ago it did nothing but
extol Sir Henry Parkes, and telling Parliament
and the country that Sir Henry was the only pilot
capable of steering the Ship of State safely
through the troubled waters. Now we see the D.T.
giving the wily knight a rap over the knuckles
every time it gets a chance. A couple of months
ago the vacillating journal in question was ‘ on to’
the lteehabites aud cynically referred to the Local
Optionists as ‘thinly disguised prohibitionists.’
Lately it has posed as the advocate of local
option, and on the Kith Inst., we saw it declaring
that ‘ it was simply an insult to the common sense
of the people to question that prohibition, were it
effective, would be a cure for the abuse of in-
toxicating drinks.’ Again I ask, what are the
politics—if it has any—of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph.”
Tne poorer clergy of the Anglican Church
in England have addressed a memorial to the
Archbishop of Canterbury, which shows that the
central principle of Socialism has entered the
sanctuary. The memorial calls, in brief, for a
reduotion in tne anomalies of tne present distri-
bution of the endowments of the Church. The
Archbishop is inclined to give the document con-
sideration, but the rich clergy denounce it as a
revolutionary and criminal proposal. “If,” as one
of the rich ones argue s, “a highly-endowed living
is made to give up a Dortion to a lowly-endowed
living, now does this differ from requiring the rich
man to give up a part of his inheritance to the
poor one? If one is held to be confiscation, how
can the other be otherwise?’ As far as the rults
of logic go the rich clergy have the better of it.
The poor clergy who want a share of the rich liv-
ings must begin by denying that the analogous
case is confiscation, or, admitting it to be so, must
maintain that confiscation of this kind is i
j ustlflable.
He is not our ideal man who never gets
on his toes, or spreads out his arms, or becomes
visibly several inches bigger every way when
brought face to face with a great argument. The
torpid livered half-breeds who crawl in upon the
floors of life, and blink up without rfsaonsive
thrill at the great figures that love, aud hate, and
fight, and die, all in the superlatives of passion,
are poor things to crush even with the heel of a
three-aad-sixpenny brogue. But our ideal man is
prone to go uDon false assumptions. As an in-
stance. take the editor of the Adelong Argus
Fittingly he grows in size when he scats
the colossal proportions of the spirit of knavery
that sways with a stronger handth an the
Speaker's some of the members of the pre-
sent N.S.W. Parliament. He avows that “it
will be soon time for another Cromwell to
arise and drive forth the occupants of our Legis-
lative Chamber with the historical cry of ‘ get you
gone and give place to bone3ter men ’” Who is it
whose heart does not leap with the Adelong
editor’s from syllable t) syllable, from word to
word, until on the utterance of “ Get you gone ”
the air quivers with excitement? But just there
his proneness to falss assumptions shows itself.
He tells the senators “to give place to honester
men.” Now, we shut down here. Where are the
honester men ? We are loyal New South Welsh-
men to the backbone, and, confound it, we are not
going to take in foreigners to rule us!
“J. 8.” writes iu reply to “An Ulster
Man’s ” remarks in a recent issue of The Bulle-
tin;—“The Irish Catholics have shown more tole-
ration than their Protestant brethren. In last
Imperial Parliament there were no Catholic re-
presentatives for English and Scotoh constituen-
cies, and in this Parliament there are only three.
In Ireland, on the other hand, many Catholic elec-
torates return Protestant members, and in cases
where there is a Catholic and a Protestant aspirant
on the National side, the R C.s frequently sup-
port the man belonging to the alien religion. The
fear that tbe granting of Home Rule will be a
menace to Protestantism is best answered by the
quotation of an extract from the speech delivered
in the Commons a few weeks ago by the great
Irish leader. This is what Parnell says:—* We have
heard to-night of the necessity of protecting the
loyal minority in Ireland. I was born a Protes-
tant, I have always lived a Protestant, and I hope
to die a Protestant; and if in the future, after
the concession of tbe Irilh claims, any danger
were to arise to my Protestant tellow-country-
uien 1 should bo the tirgt to stand up for liberty
of sueech. liberty of conscience, and the liberty to
live and twrive to every section of the country;
and perhaps I might be a more effectual aid m
times of real danger than some gentlemen who
i 52 loudly and boast ao much. lam convinced
that the Catholics of Ireland would not attempt
to oppress their Protestant follow-oountrymeD,
but th >t they would desire that the Protestants ot
Ireland should have more than fair play—that
they would endeavour to bring them to the front,
a ™,^ ve th'-m the fullest share in the Government
of the country. The Catholics of Ireland are per-
fectly willing that any guarantees that the in-
genuity of men can frame for the protection of
the minority shall be framed and snail be put in
force. Indeed, they would treat much more
justly and much more generously the Protes-
tants in regar i to their future representation in
an Irish Caamber than the Protestan’s of England
ri D ru° have treated the two millions of
Catholics in respect to the representation in this
Imperial Parliament.’ ”
There was much to elad the heart of an
lr shman at the Pt. Patrick’s Day banquet held in
on the 18ch March, and if it had not been
tor the speeches, enjoyment would have been
comp.ete. It Is an easy thing to make a successful
fu°; ° Irish sptee j: you only have to cill one
ot that army of political martyrs, whose names
tor a century back have been legal tender for en-
thusiastic applause, “the illustrious” or “the
heroic, and the cheering and clatter of knives and
spoons gives you a fair chance of remembering
someone else » h o has won renown in “ the land of
tne shpui.” The “ orator ’’ Dailey did not “ bring
down the house ” 1 1 an alarming extent. His ora-
tionsj.are more effective in print than in actual
delivery, it detracts from the enjoyment of a
speech when the eloquent and fluent one is reen to
turn over, at regular intervals, his carefully pre-
pared MS. Heroic sentiment in such case is
knocked out in one round. It would be better if
the gifted William were to op inly display and
read from his fount of iaspiration: there is now
no actual deception in his method, for it de-
ceives nobody, but if he adopts our sugges-
tion it is probable that the “ applause ”
and cheers’’ will actually flti the intervals
assigned to them in the morning pnper
reports. It was unfortunate for both Mr. Dailey
and Dan. O’Connor that they were so eioseiy
associated at this banquet: for Dan. because he was
put into the shade by “the Australian orator”and
his brightest 11 ishings of rhetoric made to appear
only as the faint glimmer of a slush lamp, and un-
fortunate for William Bede as it he
was after all only a “ single-handed pitcher” of the
U Connor type but rather more so. And each was
heavily handicapped by circumstances. Dailey
because he was obliged to applaud Dladatone
(whose name by the way caused the company to
cheer deliriously), and Dan. because the brothers
Redmond came in for adulatory comment. The
star of the evening undoubtedly was Mr. H. Cope-
I 3 speech he claimed the applause as a
tribute to the Ministry, but in so doing he was
over-modest,—it was an acknowledgement of his
own popularity. Mr. Lysight, the Illawarra
statesman, was observed to sit down during the
toast of the Ministry, a circumstance which pro-
bably gave rise to the rumour that he was to take
the vacant portfolio. He would undoubtedly give
much weight-about 30 stone of it—to the Cabinet.
Mr. Hy. Daly made a creditable debut on this
occasion, and if he did say “that we never recog-
nise the virtues of our own patriots during their
lifetime till long after they are dead,” this was
probably only to be regarded as a lapsus linguae.
Mr Coonan s humour hardly came off, but Aider-
M’Mahon who wondered how much the “exthras”
came to on the contracts for foundations let by
St. Patrick made an undeniable bit. We missed
several well-known faces from the gathering.
Strangely enough neither G. A. Lloyd, Henson,
Davies, Ms.P. nor the reverend Zichary Barry
were present, nor did any one of those accom-
plished knife-and-fork men even send a letter of
apology.
A Sydney Sunday paper asks, “ Do people
not know that all is not gold that glitters, and that
many diamonds are but paste after all ?” Well, of
course, people know, miners, anyway, that nothing
which “glitters” is gold, but they have yet to
learn that diamonds are paste. If paste they can-
not be diamonds, and on the contrary:—
Daar holy howl, dear Sunday prig,
Do not your youthful judgment waste,
Or people may your own drift “ twig "
And charge you with beiog shears and “paste.”
May say ydur coruscations fine,
Though new to you. to them are old;
Your 18-carat wit divine
Although it “ glitters ” is not gold.
Now that the money-changers have been
definitely established in the temple we see no
reason why they should apologise for their calling.
Over the Adelaide bank failure, the Reverend Dr.
Jefferis, LL.B., of the Congregational Church,
Pitc-street, Sydney, Is great indeed. He writes to
say he ‘ sold his 300 shares a few weeks ago with-
out knowing the bank was in difficulties of any
sort.” Well, now, supposing the reverend gentle-
man had known. What then ? The transaction
mightn't have been strictly Christian, but it would
have been good business. The strongest lay pillars
of Congregationalism wouldn’t have bucked at
such a “deal.” It would have been legal enough.
What’s the use of a Divine Providence unless it
interposes to allow the followers of the meek and
lowly Nazarene (who “knew not where to lay his
head,” and who told people to “sell all their
goods and give to the poor”) to trade off the scrip
that’s going bung ? Let no one dare to paraphrase
the words of the immortal William: “Methinksthis
lady doth protest too much.” Dr. Jefferis is an
exponent of the religion which, according to
literal and old-fashioned notions, teaches a man to
do to his neighbour as he would his neighbour did
to him. The reverend doctor can make restitution
to the poor devil who bought the 300 shares—nay,
from what we know of Dr. Jefferis we are quite
sure he Ins already done so. Tne clergv cars not
for the things of this sinful world. It is quite
enough for Dr. Jeff eris (who has £lOOO a year or so at
Pitt-street chapel) to “lay up treasure in Heaven”
where there is no rust to lessen the weight of the
British sovereign, and where the moth eateth up
not valueless S.A. Commercial notes.
JAMES MOORHOUSE
(Bishop of Melbourne, who left Melbourne for the
Bishopric of Manchester, 10 th March, 1860.
He came, a stranger, and we gave him welcome
MoreasHoved friend than rumour’s honoured
guest.
He spoke 1 Were we, then, all so slack to listen ?
To hail him as our noblest, wisest, best ?
Why did he leave us ?
He toiled! And we, under such a leader,
Forget all other cries, but that he taught.
And, proud of our clear answer to hi 3 summons,
Forgot all other lights but that he fought I
Why did he leave us ?
He wearied I ’T was too great, he said, the burden.
We saw it, and we cried wita anxious love—
“ What does he (let him back!) down in the battle ?
Is not the general’s place at rest above ?”
Why did he leave us ?
He left us for “ a larger sphere of labour!”—
A tinsel seat within a House that shakes.
To herd with priests meal-mouthed, with lords
and liars
That still would bind a nation’s chain that
breaks I
Why did he leave us ?
Farewell, then I Are there any to reproach you
In all this facile crowd that weeps and cheers ?
No, none! But, ah! you yet shall listen sadly
To echoes falling faintly through dead years—
Why did he leave us ?
FRANK GAWKESBURY.
The gorgeousness of the attire of the
Chinese mini-ter at President Arthur’s New Year’s
reception cannot be given in print Tail in stature,
robed in silts, satins, and furbelows of the finest
material, he looked like a ceieatial king, and was
the most of all who called to pay their respects.
We venture to say that the Sydney public much
prefer admiring the very beautiful cups, plates,
dishes, Parian, terra ootta, and China stationery,
eptrgnes, vases, and general goods known as
crock ary, for which Bray Bros , of 402 and 404
Go urge-street, are widely famed. Anybody will
fot gladly Shown round their four Sho wroynifl,*
ARIEF M:NTION.
Advt. from the Southern World (Q.):—
“ Mr. Walmsley tenders thanks to all who assisted
him at the burning of hia premises on Monday
last.”
Why are snakes so plentiful after St.
Patrick s Dav ? Thia question is asked in the in-
terests of O wld O Ireland by one who attended St.
Patrick’B Day banquet.
WHERE IT IS.
Oh. pay no heed to parson’s prate;
The stage they need not mind;
There is no hir a before the rag,
The trouble's all behind!
“ How to become Thin” is the heading of
an article in ■> late issue of the Melbourne Age.
It is only when you have got to the end of It that
you see where the j ike is. How to become thin
is to read the article.
An Auckland publican is bringing an
action for £5OOO damages for libel against Sir Wil-
liam Fox, the N Z. teetotalchunplon. Sir William
explains that he ‘ mi itook the house.” That often
happens, late at night
At the Wesleyan Conference in Melbourne
a short time ago. One member to another,
Speak up!” “I can't,” wasthereoly; “I've got
new teeth.” Third reversed gentleman (a wag):
Are they paid for?' Who will say there is no
fun at these religious rinaloons?
Two boys in Bath (E ig ) were fined £1 and
costs, and another received a month’s hard labour,
for talkiosr in church. We knov a few parsons
here in Sydney who are old enough to know
better, ana yet have a habit of talking persistently
in sanctified edifices for hours and hjurs every
rab^ath.
Cremation is evidently making headway.
If ridicule could have killed this method of dis-
posing of the dt-ai it would have succumbed to
the cartoon printed some years ago, depicting a
small boy with a tin can in his hand standing at
the open door of a crematory, and asking of the
proprietor: “Please, sir, is dad done yet? ’
Up North—North of Capricorn—a lucky
digger was away on his honeymoon on St.
Patrick s Day. Some sharper j umped his claim on
the ground that he didn’t hold a miner's right
That miner now aski us : Must a man leave his
bride, and eunp outside the courthouse from
Patrick s Day until the registrar sobers up ? ’
Biting, scratching, kicking, and Gaelic
maledictions were the order of the *<ay In Grafton
Presbyterian Church one Sunday Biting, scratch-
ing, kicking, and Chinese maledictions were the
order of the day in Brisbane Chinese Joss House
on the Sunday following Hurry up, ye others
who fancy you are on intimate terms with the
Unseen!
The latest socio-ecolesiastioal sensation
comes from that fashionahle fane, St Mark’s.
Darling Pmnt, Sydney. Tae gentlemen who sing
in the choir there are going to wear “ bustles and
crinolettes. Tnia innovation, according to the
principal, i 3 now the correct thing in Eagiand
The “ Vicah,” whi comes iresh from the “dear
?<« “othat l , c matry,” will soon have quite a
“fetching” show.
Among the list of insolvents appears the
nameof J ihn T. Robinson, sheriff s officer; total
debts, £1061!6t; assets, £5 Marius amongst the
rums ot Oa thage Bolingbroke in exile, Napoleon
on board the BellerophoD, Kosouisko when he
heard the shriek of freedom, Jeff Davij when his
petticoats hinderrd his flight, are all subjects to
make the moat thoughtl. sa pauae. But a bailiff
bankrupt! The mind stands aghast.
A young fellow was recently charged with
stealing fruit at Dunedin, and, while the offence
was noc denied, it was urged as an excuse for the
accused that he was going to be married next day
The magistrate, however, did not appear to think
so, and lined the groom in prospective 40j It
must have been remarkably fine fruitl or else tin
girl-but, perhaps his worship [Tnere is more of
this item somewhere; but it is a bit scattered.—
Ed. B ]
A Southern p aper mentions that “ Deeble’s
Christian Year - is one of the books recommended
by Sir John Lubbock for the library of the Work-
ing Man’s College in London. Thunder! And ha
has never Slid a word to us about it, but gone on
backing Beach and fixiDg up races and drawing
beer just as tnough he was as great a sinner as anv
of us! The “Cnristian Year!” Well, well—it’s
astonishing how some men can keep hiding their
1 ghts under a bushel.
They have a flue airy dormitory in the
Melbourne Supreme Court tor juries who have to
be looked up all night It is in tne dome, and verv
comfortably furnished. A short time ago a jury
were locked up there, and in the morning were
taken out for a walk around tha buildings by two
janitors, who were specially sworn to keep them
in good order. Fancy keeping 12 men, who had to
be locked up all night because they could not
agree, in good order I
The row in Melbourne Cemetery about the
midocation of a corpsa is nothing to what will take
place at the sounding of the “ Fali-in ” at the end
of time, when one Fogarty (from Florenca) shall
say to th tainted trumpeter: “Here, sorr.” He
was “planted ” by mistake in the portion allotted
to Chinese in the Coonambla church—no, grave-
yard, and at the annual or q Anquennial harvest
was packed off to Cnina. How ne will bath the
Chinkies! We knew him alive,
A trainer was timing a horse on Burrowa
course two days before the races, when he noticed
an ancient Phoenician directing a boy ts place
small heaps of pebbles round the grand stand On
enquiry it was asce tained that “ there’s always a
ruction at ivery matin’, and lasht year sorra a
shtone to tro’. S j the commy-tee has arderd tree
or foor loads to be placed convanient." The
majority of the inhabitants of the distrlot hail
from Naples, Venice, and Civita Vecchia.
Th© Warrnambool (Yio.) Stand ibd cites,
as an instance of the distress occasioned by the
late bush-lires in tha Heytesbury district, the case
of a farmer who was la3t sean living in a tank
We see nothing very dreadful in this. Why, we
ourselves—(That will do. There is no necessity to
be too squalidly candid.-ED. B) But we really
have seen, out on the Hornsby-road.asmall family
who lived in a tank and an outhouse, while their
new cottage was being bui.t—and thought nothing
of it, either.
Here is an obituary quatrain on the death
of a small boy which appears in the Melbourne
Age:—
“ To the bright and golden regions
la gone our darling, young and fair,
He is singiDg with the angels-
There'B room for little Willie there.”
There Is the usual sublime confidence here. The
friends of little Willie don’t seem to think it
possible that the aDgels might prefer his “room’ -
to his company. They never do, these trustful
relatives.
A deputation of Presbyterian divines
waited on the Victorian Premier in the near past,
with the purpose of cajoling him into preventing
France from annexing the New Hebrides. They
have £130,000 worth of property on the islands,
and six of their ministers have been killed there,
two of whom were roasted and eat< n by the
Datives; the Calvinistic divines fear it will all go to
the interest of anotner creed. We sympathise
With the deputation. Any sect that wants to save
tha “pore heathen ” should feed him on their own
missionaries.
Horses are intelligent animals and thev
o»n t abear Salvation Army processions. Tha
Harmy had a torchlight show on at Hotham (Vic ?
last week, and a fiery steed went right for it. and
now several of the Looard’s adherents are in the
hospital. The “Captaia” ia charge can only ex
plain away this significant mark of equine disarL
RF9YA 1 1 at the horS3 was “ possessed^
the Devil. A similar exouse is forthcoming when
ai indignant cow pok?s her horns through the big
SSSf Sl3o!f* the iee 01 * h “ u <£
It became known in the Council-chambers
of Armidale, N.S.W., a few weeks ago, that there
»V?-^. a ?i and a hi £ h ' toncii institution called the
British Museum. The municipal fathers were in-
stantly seized with a desire to contribute a curiosity
Tn6y ordered a photographer to take views of
oertain buildings in town, and paid him out; of the
ratBS , , Soni ® °f, the buillings were butchers’ shops
and others similarly substantial edifices. In most
oases the owner stood in the doorwav. The views
I®?, 4 last week t 0 London. Visitors to the
British Museum will now be able to see what an
Armidale aldermen looks like.
Mr, W. H. Jennings employees have
I 1 1” a picnic at Chowder, in the police dis-
trict of Port Jacksm. Mr. Jennings employees
a J, o .. men who chip stone and take their chance of
falling off scaffoldings, on the non-union principle
The tff fir was a great sucoess, equal, in every
? e ceebrattd demoustration that
Of aar . ro . d . when the electors of Batanswill pre-
seated their tnembar, the Hon, Samuel Slumkev
1U K lt l e J Ha ll, with a silver coal-scuttle. Not
that—but tor further information on the subieot
we refer you to the remarks of the redoubtable
Mr. Pott, in the Batanswill Gazette.
Tne authorities of a Southern convent
lately petitioned for leave to use a block of land
they possess, as a cemetery wherein to lay awav
the nuns when their spirits have fled. Their
prayer was not granted. We consider that a big
mistake. See what a lot of drafting and bother it
would save on that great day when lawyers and
fj * will run into caves and want stones and
things to fall on them, if these good ladies were
i Q in a distinct community. A
little judicious care in keeping the sheep from the
goats in our burying places will minimise the
bell Bi ° n ® xpeofced at tde sound of the final flre-
The Tiaro (Q.) pirson wanted to make
some additions to his church, and to raise the
needful, organised a bit of a bazaar. In the Wide
Bay papers there was advertised a “grand drawing
ot pnzei on the art-union principle.” The” Dio-
turea” were: —“A photo, of the Queen ” (a penny-
postage stamp); “ Boars in the Wood” (two auger.
hofi’S in a lump of hardwood); and a “Brace of
Woodcocks” (represented by a pair of braoes be-
longing to the local C.P.S.—one Woodoock, who
has now left for Eigland). There were several
other prizes of a like nature. Now, if any bu; a re-
ligious institution had run such a venture, what
would people say ? ’
A watchmaker who some time ago pawned
all the decrepit " tickers ” and small valuables left
m his care, and levanted to Tasmania with the
Jvinrt 6 * 8 ’ bas beo Jv. ** dad up ’ before the local
court to answer the charge. TPs plea was the
most beautiful bit of defence we have run against
£. nd , q lite enough to rope thesym-
tbe ? rtll odox. He said that previous to
j?*® | i4t 6 v ,® n , tu F e he bad frequently attended the
freethought lectures of the heretic Symes, and they
had demoralised him. They led him to drink tn
gamble, and desert his home and his faith, so he
gripped the plunder and “ cleared "—with the pur-
pose, we presume, of becoming somewhat whiter
than snow, and turning local-preacher.
It has been found that a temperature of
80 degrees Pahr. below zero fails to cast even a
chill on thoie bacteria who do us the honour of
taking up free lodgings in our tissues. The de-
sign of scientists is now to determine on the dif-
ferent species, and set them on to war with each
other! luo difficulty, however, of training them
and getting them up to the scratch is manifest.
We cannot supply them ammunition and artillerv
and we have no suitable persons to .send and
officer regiments who could bring 50,000 to the
front and fight out a regular Waterloo on a battle-
field the size of a pin’s head. However, we have
seen some of the Soudan heroes amongst us, and
thfng* y the r milltar y B suius might suggest some-
A tramp has just gone to gaol for having
stolen some bottles of Curay \o, whisky, and bo on.
from the vestry of an Anglican Caurch in the
Blue Mountains. We would point out to the
K3v. Mr. Leach, the parson whose good liquor
went wrong, that Maraschino, not Cur*s io is the
conventional and proper accompaniment to
whisky. The presence of the grog in the vestry
was accounted for on the ground that Mr. Leach
was not very strong”—as B shop Mo irhouse
would 88,7 his digestion was delicate” The
good clergyman and his servant both swore to a
corkscrew which the tramp hid annexed. We
wonder how it was they knew that cork-puller so
well. We couldn’t swear to our co-kscrew.
though it has served us faithfully for—yes, dear
brethren—many years.
There is to be formed in Rockhamoton a
company of the Queensland Scottish Volunteers,
lo quote the looai Evening News, “ the corps
ip e arm ®d with rifles and bayonets, with a
dirk in the stocking. ’ The Scotch, and more par-
ticularly the Scotch troops, after a hot engage-
ment, suffer severely from corns For a consider-
able period it puzzled the War Office to discover
some of curing the men, or at least relieving
them painful fcffl ction. Happily the dirk method
was thought ot. After the bittle of Waterloo
whole companies of the Black Watch were to be
seen squatting down cutting their corns. When a
Highlander was asked what he was doing, he’d
answer: ’Carvin’ my corns, mon.” May the
Queensland Scottish Volunteers never find any-
tning else to carve-except their dinner.
Up South then© is a smart coach-driver—
night Denis Murnane-who, haviog found bv
long experience that nil he is ever likely to get
when handing down the drummers’ simple*, is a
cool thank you,” sometimes avails himself of
the average bagman’s love of games of chance,
lhe other day. there wore 16 on the co ich, near-y
all commercials,” andit wasagreed, upmDenis’s
proposition, that each should put down a shilling
—the man who saw a bear first to scoop the pool.
The coach hadn’t gone far when Denis pointed
out a bear and pooketed the 16«. Tnen all hands
put down another shilling, wbioh also fell to Denis
who subsequently saw tvo more bears, each at an
expense of 15 i. to the company. The drummers
eve: tually concluded that Denis’s sight was too
good for them, and “gave him best.” Next dav
one of the rag-sellers met the bold driver who
u ito him spake thus:—"Come and have a drink.
Don t tell the other lei ows, but all those bears
were tied up in the tree-forks. Some I killed
morethau a month ago. You’d better tell the
Sydney firms to send smarter men up to these
PSiFIiS •
The Melbourne Presbyterian Theatre re-
opeoed for a short season ihe other day. and pro-
duced a bill that was as taking as any which the
clerical comic arti tea in the troupe have ever
placed beiore their patrons. Toe princ pal plav
was the well-known comedy of “Loaves and
lishes, ’ _ the leading parts being carried out with
groat spir t by Messrs. M Eachran and the two pro-
fessors. The farce of “To obligeDods” wasintro-
ducad as a kind of interlude, and the manner in
wnich the chief actors sustained the part of Chief
Inquisitor, and of those hungry porridge reared
parsons who belch forth anathemas, but aie in
point of fact, ready to rush forward and fall upon
the neck ot their dearly beloved but reviled
brother, was simply lifelike. Tne performers acted
so well that no one would have believed otherwise
than that the players were actuated by all the
petty spite and meanness which Is found about in
the world A nice little artistic bit which would
almost goto music, cilled “You’re a liar—you’re
another” wound up the show, which was meat
enjoyable throughout to the unregenerate. At
the next performance the Moderator will stand on
his head. Beats can be secured four weeks in ad*
vance.
LINES ON A TOY HORSE WITH BROKEN
WHEELS.
BY AN UNAPPRECIATED POET.
The poets of the old days dead and gone,—
The young days of the world—could soar on high
On a winged Pegasus that clove the sky—
No call for spur, no need of digging heels.
The poets of to-day jolt onward, on
A Pegasus that runs on broken wheels.


Giticura
«V‘?
&
sr
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1,086 of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman's Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
1 A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;-
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
aB pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cutieura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; CCTicura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Eve ry House-
d
EFFECTUALLY DESTROY}
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT]
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITO Esi
AND IS.
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
j HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOG!
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
■
i,' , <£ 0 IN TINS
~ t '^ yS>%^<h^ lSWemm
k aO Co' ai i rnriiii^Tf>
5\k N ° .c^byALL CHEMISTS
'y^o^4s^\^4s^ AND STOREKEEPERS
FELTON* GRIMWADEV.C 0
MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
w
CO
cr>
jOO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilsoa’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, lStdnbt
YANKEE DOODLE
°'JrsoN& 50H S J
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
iQUE r
TOBACCO
niYf&flßl A fifllßflft SuHnnii possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
OJUBltSjf, Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
IST" YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
JjlOlt SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, ail sizes
.TAYA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PL ATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEM FLOCK in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIiiRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOiLET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPPING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING*, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTE ADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
Thus fcT”. Jtfec Sfter?
rr
n
p
a- 3
r—r
rrl
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
AR orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
Sti upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
542 GEOROE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a eountry in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands ol
sufferers
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use ir
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London,
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
TO CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
THE Government of Western Australia is pre-
pared to receive Tenders up to noon i
Thursday, Ist April, 1886, for the following works
Erection of a line of Telegraph—from Roebourne,
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
-1 with iron poles Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen on application at the
Office of the Commissioner of Works, Sydney,
New South Wales.
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Works,
Perth, Western Australia,
3rd February 1886.
Anything you Require from Sydney/
FORWARDED AT
C OSTJPR 1 C O E„
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYINGL
Goods of any description, never mind how small!
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM..
Write for what you require and we will suit ypUot-
john t. mnmnm & aov
GENERAL AGENTS,
OO PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
r.
jjgTUDY
lEa v e your Umbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mads
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
Ml George Street,
i Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst StS.
I Parasols made to match cos*
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
ntmtl
-A.'brsilxaascL’s
mis
The Great Liyer Remedy.
,Pre pared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serience. They overcome the worst form of
diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NQUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at Bd. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser'
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, forest'
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth*
Street, Rertfern.
X_ii32.en Ghloss
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY*
BPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
STDNET.
W BY BEY VEHICLE GUARANTEE],


SOCIALS
His Excellency and Lady Carington held
their first evening' relation on Tuesday, the 16th
inst., when about 603 guests assembled in the
reception rooms of Government House. The
carriages began to arrive about half-past 9 and
continued till past 10. Lady Carington looTted
lovely in a trained robe of embossed white silk,
the bodice and draperies being richly trimmed
with crystal and silver drops. A triple tiara of
diamonds with necklace and bracelets of the same
gems, were her jewels. The Hon. Judith Har-
bord’s very becoming gown was of white cr£pe
striped with a peculiar shade of pink very hand-
somely trimmed with lace. Tulle, as usual, was the
predominating material, while the 11 >wered tulles
were, perhaps, the most effective gowns in the
room. Among such a large assemblage it was very
difficult to notice many. Lady Martin looked ex-
tremely well in dull gold bodice and with
lace petticoat; Lady Jenniasrs was becomingly
attired in white silk; Mrs. C. J. Kobcrts, in black
lace with ciel blue aigrette on the corsage, diamond
ornaments; Miss Roberts, in all white, looked
childish; Mrs. Airey, ia a soft silk of the new
shade of prawn pink, with straw-c floured maltese
lace; Mrs. Trickett, In pale blue; Mis S. A. Joseph,
in tobacco-brown gros gAia mixed with bro-
cade; Miss Joseph looked nice in a combination
of pale pink and olive green; Mrs. Purves in
white moird, handsomely embroidered with white
satin beads; Mss Hill looked nice in flowered
tulle over white satin; Mrs. Sah), pale piSk mer-
veilleux, beaded with gold; Mus Fosbery looßed
well in white satin and tulle; Mrs. Guttett, in green
velvet mixed with white brocade; Mrs. Fischer, in
black lace, embroidered withbsetlf s wings. M :st
©f the Defence forces were represented. Among th e
gay toilettes of the ladies, the uniforms of the
Sydney LaEcers, the Royal Artillery, the German
Squadron, the Fnglish wavy, the Permanent Ar-
tillery, and other uniform*), were thrown out in
great relief. The night was very tine, and the
verandahs were covered in, and louDging chairs
were placed everywhere. Refreshments were
served in the dining room all the evening.
Admiral Tryon held his first “ At Home ”
since his return from Hobart, on Friday last, when
about 500 guests assembled on board H M.S. Nel-
son. The ship was biautifully decorated with
flags, flowers, and evergreens. Refreshments
were laid in the gun-rcom, whe e everything to
tempt even a delicate palate could be obtained.
Dancing was kept up from 3 to 6 o clock, with
great vigour, and the extensive decks of the Ne 1 -
son were thoroughly appreciated by those wor-
shipping at the shrine of Terpsichore. The day
being very oppressive, ight toi ettes were mostly
chosen. White predominated, and were thrown
out in great relief to the light pinks, blues, and
duller and richer silts and brocades donned by
most of the matrons. Lady Martin’s very hand-
some black, composed of moire and lace, looked
well; Lady Manning also wore black; Mrs
Busby wore a light brown costume ; Mrs.
Labertouche. a handsome gown of black,
with very richly-jstted mantle; Mrs C. J. Robert*,
looked very well indeed in a combination of white
lawn Valenciennes lace, with pale blue moire loops
at the side, and a tiny pale blue tulle bonnet;
Mrs. M‘Quade wore one of the most elegant cob-
stumes on board, it being composed of a cull s»ge-
green gros grain, made with a z uave jacket,
and richly trimmed with gold ana silver Indian
embroidery; Mrs. Purves wore a striking costume
of cigar-brown canvas, with panels of steel, blue
moire silk, bonnet to match ; Mrs. Airey loosed
cool in ail cream, embroidcraa w.th marguerites ;
Mrs. Savage, in csffee-c floured silk and lace; Mrs.
Moriarty, in cream Spanish lac s and brocade: Mrs.
Sydney W«*nt, in pale pink zephyr, with white
vest; Mrs. Browning looked girlish in a very
pretty gown of white-?pottei muslin, and caffs of
brown velvet, bonnet to match; Mrs. Sheppard
Laidley, in a stylish costume or cream canvas,
over salmon-pink .silk, kilting ot the silk peeping
out from under the araperus; Miss Manning, in
cream lace over cream satin ; Miss Clara
Manning, in a simple frock of white tasas
silk pale-blue, tulle boDnet ; Miss Mitchell,
in soft white si k with handsome embroidery;
Miss Labertouche, in embroidered white muslin, a
cluster of yellow roses in her cream bonnet the
same flowers c ustering at her nick; Mrs. Nott
looked elegant in a brown surah skirt with cream
embroidered polonaise; Miss Morlicg, in cream;
Miss Josephson, m prune silk and velvet richly
trimmed with soft cream lace; Miss Fosbery, ia
pale pink zephyr, white vest, black velvet collar
and cuffs, ana high hat; the Misses Mirtin, in blue
flowered delaines; Miss G. Fischer, ia white lawd;
Mrs. Andrew looked well in green-shaded figured
gauze, trimmed with green surah; Misi Mary
Stephen wore white with panels of oriental
stripes; Miss E. Denne in cream striped crepe,
small white tulle bonnet; Miss A. Denne, also in
cream; Miss Darley looked stylish in coffee tam-
bour muslin with trimmings of orange velvet,
gold net and coffoe-coioured velvet nat; Miss
Salomons, in a costume of pale blue muslin figured
with white, bonnet to correspond; the Misses H ir-
die wore very ladylike costumts of browo, ana all
hats to match; Miss Kyngdon, cream muslin, navy
blue hat, w th red poppies; Mrs. James White, in
cream, handsomely ornate, with pale blue moire;
Miss Taylor, a very e'egaut gown of green,
trimmed with Bilver; Mrs. Le Mesurier looked
very well in black, with coloured tips; Mrs. fcahl,
in cream-figured delaine; Mrs Belisario, in black,
with handsome jewellery; Mrs Squier, in striped
silk, trimmed with velv t; Miss Holborrow, ia a
pretty dress of cr-am lace; Miss Wardell. in deep
cream, with hat and gloves ot b ack; Miss Dei-
ohry, in cream, with lace, small white tulle bon-
net; Mrs Maccamara, in fawn surab, trimmed
with oriental stripe; Mrs. Mirrivale.in dark green,
with embroidered ve3t; Mri. R E. Lord, in cream
canvas, bat to correspond; Mis. W. Docker, in
figured crush d strawberry; Mrs. Bouverie, in
white lawn, white tulle bjnnet. Most of the
officers of the man-of-war ships now ia port, also
members of the Permanent Artillery and Volun-
teers were present. The wh fle was a very
brilliant scene, and one not likely soon to bo for-
gotten.
W * *
The Sy tlaey O wls held their annual Garden
Party at Botany list Thursday, where they
amused thems Ives by danoing and singing, and
eating oysters, till 7 o’clock, when they sit uown
to an innocent kind of banquet, after which the
popular president, Dr. Byrne, speeohed and laid
down a rule that no speech (alter nis) wis to last
over two minutes and a haif-m.-rciful rulel But
the gentleman who responded to tae ‘ Lidiei,”
had «o macl to say about them, that he took
double his all >tted time to get through. *• Time,”
was shouted out to him repeatedly, but he was so
interested in what he was saying, that to e very-
thing else he was pe fectly obliv.ou-*. Mr. Bailey
responded for the “Press” and said as much lu
his two minutes as it took the previous man to
say in double the time. Mr. Pair, the vice-presi-
dent, had something to say which was conci.e and
to the point, and then dancing was resorted to,
much to the delight of the ladles, who, it is need-
less to say, lot kea chirmiog ia their tasteful cos
tumes A few vocil contributions varied the
entertainment. aDd W. H. L. was again to the fore
as a singist. Mr. Maurice Mer ser busied himself
as usual in looking after everybody’s comfort, and
the pleasant gathering broke up at 11 p.m.
* * *
Miss Alice Harboril, sister to Lady Hast-
ings and Lady Carington, ii shortly goiDgto marry
a plain “ Mr.”
* * *
Mr. J. B. Pewtress, a member of the
Sydney Liedertafel, entertained about 100 of his
friends at a musical soiree, which he gave in Bt.
Paul’s school-room, Bur wood, on Tuesday even-
ing, the 16th Several glees were sung by a dozen
picked members of the Liedertafel, and Mrs.
Atkinson. Messrs. Booth, Delaney, I‘eir, and
Brewer each gave solos.
* * *
Last Thursday, the parish church of Bong
Bong, Moss Vale, was the scene of the marriage of
Miss Louisa C. Throsby, second daughter of P. H.
Throsby, of the Briars to Mr. Arc Her Brough-
ton, thiid son of the late Adolphus Young, of
Hare Hatrh House, Tryford, Barks, and who once
upon a time held the position of She;iffofNB.
Waler. The little church was beautifully de-
corated for the occasion, and nearly the whole
neighbourhood congregated to witness the cere-
| mooy. The bride’s dress was of rich ivory surah
silk handsomely trimmed with lace, and the seven
mails, all sisters of the bride, were attired in
white veiling with chenille spots, and wore becom-
ing Kate Greenaway caps. Only the immediate
relations of the family had been invited to the
breakfast, but as it is one of the oldest families ia
the neighbourhood, the company was pretty large.
Honeymoon at the Blue Mountains, after which
the happy pair start for a Continental tour.
* * *
A c'icket match—military and naval
officers versus civilians—was played on the
Association Ground, on Wednesday, March 17.
which resulted in a victory for the civilians by 47
runs. Daring ttao afternoon Lord and Lady
Carington and the Hon. Judith Harbord visited
the ground. Lady Carington Jlooked very well
in pale heliotrope, with tall bonnet to match,
cream sunshade; Miss Haroord wore cream lacs
dress, and tall brown hat; Miss Manning, in black,
black bonnet with white fall; Miss C. Manning, in
white, with sailor hat trimmed with vel vet ; Miss
Enid Mac irthur, in all white, looked youthful; Miss
-Cox, in tobacco-brown cloth, trimmed with pea-
cock blue surah; Mrs Airey, Miss Kyngdon, the
Ml's s Dance, Mrs. Savage, were also amongst the
visitors. During the play the band of the Bis-
marck enlivened the scene.
* * *
A cricket match is to be played to-day
(Thursday! between naval officers now in port at
Victoria barracks.
* * *
Pelham Hall, Woollahra, was the scene of
gaiety on Monday, 15th inst, when the ninth biith-
day of Mias Alice Russell was celebrated by a
children’s fancy dress ball. The grounds were
beautifully decorated with Chinese lanterns and
the ballroom was like fairy land with its decora-
tions of evergreens. The tiny hostess looke i in-
deed the queen of the fairies in her representation
of that character. The evening passed off very
successfully.
SOCI VL FIXIURES.
Philharmonic Concert, Exhibition Build-
ing March 35.
Social Reunion and Soiree Dansante, to
be given bv the Masooie Lodge of St.
Andrew. West’s Academy April 14.
[?]
Sydney, W ednesday.
Dearest Belle,—So many events have been
crowded into this past week that my memory is
slightly congested, and only the very brightest re-
main unforgotten. There was Leon Caron’s
benefit concert, on Friday night, at the Masonic
Hall, which, if it hadn’t taken three hours to get
through, instead of two, as we were promised,
would have been quite delightful. I haven’t, nor
never shall have, any patience with concert-
givers who so absurdly miscalculate the time it
takes to get through a programme as to be nearly
a whole hour out Still,{it was a nice con-
cert, and the audience brilliant and aporgeia-
tive. Ther i is a good doal of real solid music in
Caron's quartette in E flat, which opened the con-
cert, and was played by Messrs. Kreltehman,
All press, Patek, and Caron, and the pitv of it is
that so good a musioian should have met with so
little success in Sydney, that it has ended in
his leaving us altogether. I can’t say I admire
hin much as a violin soloist, but may bo I am
hard to please on that point. All I know is,
that his tone doesn’t thrill me like that of Kruse
or Wilhelmj, neither does the music he evokes
carry my thoughts right away to other spheres,
where milliners’ bills, and such like annoyances
are not. But a man can’t be flrst-cla's at every-
thing, and his various musical compositions are
quite sufficient to brand him a man of talent
if not of genius. Miss Acton Blair sang “ Forget
really nicely, and Cissie—l mean Cyril de Val-
mency (there's a name for you!) played a difficult
setting of “ William Tell ” rather laboriously. The
young Auckland bony shouldn’t attemptsuoh heavy
solos yec awhile, for he p-sitively hasn t strength
enough to play them; if he would only keep to
what ia well within his powers, he would be quite
nice. Ha was showered with bouquets after his
solo, which caused him to blush depply and to
play another solo. I could have forgiven him the
blushing, but h 9 really shouldn’t have played*
such a terribly long piece for an encore. Oh, tbeT
we had Signora Fabris, who was simply splendid.
Her solo was ‘‘l Vespri Sicilian, with oroheitral
accompaniment, which was, of course, encored.
The Signora s voice is as full and fresh as ever.
Madame Kellermann next came on and played a
“ Polonaise,” by Henry Herg, with string accom-
paniment, in her own graceful and charming
style, and after being recalled repeated a portion
of it. Mr. Hallewell’s name was on the pro-
gramme, but the man—where was he ? Not at the
concert, certainly, so Madame Merz filled up the
gap, but we would have been equally pleased
i. it hadn’t been filled at all. This isn’t
meint as a reflection on Madame’s Binging,
but it grew so late, you know. The second
part of the Drogramme consisted of the Harden
scene from ‘ Faust,” with Signora Fabris in the dual
parts of Irebeland Marta; MissSaville, Marguerite;
Charles Harding, Faust; and Warwick Gainor as
Mephistopheles. The scenery was a bit (a good bit)
amateurish, but on the whole the scene was fairly
given, and then, you know, it was a novelty for a
concert hall. George said Miss Saville looked
scrumptious as Marguerite, so I suppose she did,
but you know men are far more appreciative of
women’s looks than we of the same sex, but Mr*
Harding really dici look nico as Faust, quite hand-
some, I assure you. There were a few hitches; for
instance, the spinning wheel refused to go, and
gave Marguerite an immense deal of trouble, ans
sometimes Faust forgot his part, but these things
don’t count, for much when the audience is good
We were requested, on the pnogrammep,
■ i keep our during the rendering of the
National Anthem, but we are such creatures of
habit tinat no sooner was the first note struck than
up we all jumped like good true loyal subjects as
we are Oa.ic has just occurred ho me that we
were not meant to Keep our seats, but simp y to re-
frain from rushing out of the hall during the
Anthem, as we are much given to doing at the end
of a long concert. but it was a funny way to put
it, wasn t it? That Anthem cost many people
n arly a halt hour’s wait (or their traia that night.
Lo.dy Cariogton’s first social evening, which she
gave on the 16th inst., was a very nice affair, not
wonderfully brilliant, but pleasant for all that. Go-
vernment House is ridiculously tmull for enter-
taining purposes, indeed it is imp :s ble to c m-
f riably entertain more than about 500 people at
one time, consequently invitations were issued for
two separate ntgnts. l rather expected that some
of our leading artists would have been engaged to
help entertain the company, but was disap-
po'n'ed, as there was simply a banc, conversation,
! and refreshments. After all, though, there are no
very big shining lights among us just now. Lady
Carlngton looked graceful as usual in a pure white
gown much trimmed with lace, and wore her hair
pressed high. By the way, I have only once seen
her wearing the basket pla'ts at the back of her
head, and that was when she was in riding cos-
tume. I need hardly tell you, dear, that, select as
the company was supposed to be, the trades—
wealthy trades, of course, I mean—played a rather
prominent part. Personally, as you know, I
naven’tthe slightest objection to hotelkeepers’
wives and shopkeepers’ families, for there’s no
reason why they shouldn’t be quite as nice as other
people; we get occasional skocks from their gram-
mar, and sometimes they are terribly puree proud,
but, on the whole, their hearts are as good as ours.
But it fs such nonsense to class them with the
upper ten, isn’t it? I don’t think the “weeding
out” at Government House has been quite suc-
cessful.
It is said that the crowds of psopl* who flocked
to St. Margaret's to see Miss Mary Gladstone
married to Mr. Harry Drew, went more with' the
intention of catohing a glimpse oe the grand old
man than with the idea of seeing his daughter,
the bride. Now if I were a bride I shouldn’t
relish this at ail. It must be very nice to have so
celebrated a father, still a girl on her bridal day
hps a right to expect to be the show piece for that
day at least. The old man had to rush away from
bis state duties to give his daughter away, and
looked (so report has it) rather fagged and pen-
sive. The bride wore a plain white muslin dress
over silk, knd carried a huge bunch of snowdrops.
The Prinee and Princess of Wales and Georgie
were present at the ceremony. A great many of#
the bridal gifts were cheques for various amounts
—from £5O ;to £loo—one frtm Lord Rosebery
being for the latter sum. Talking of wedfings
reminds me of an anecdote I heard the other day
about an abseafc-minded man. The ceremony waa
over and our hero departed for the honeymoon
amid the usual storm of congratulations. He was
just about to step into thj tratn when some one
exclaimed “ But wnere is your wife? ’ “Egad l - ’
he exclaimed, “I had quite forgotten her.”
Woufd you like to marry an absent-
minded man, dear? I don’t think I should
if he acted like that. Further, apropos, of
marriages; I suppose you know that hitherto a
marriage to be legal in England must be per-
formed before noon, unless, indeed,- a year's
licence is prooured, but now it has been decided
to extend the hour to 4 p.m How glad English
girls ought to be for this change 1 A girl never
looks her best in the early morning, and then,
imagine what a terrible rush it must be to dress,
cry, and to admire one self in a full length mirror
all before 11 o’clock I Of course, here things are
different, for; we can marry any hour we please.
The prettiest wedding 1 ever saw was at 8 o’clock
at night. The gas m ade everything look so brilliant
without cruelly showing up bad complexions litee
the sun does, and the bride in her white robes
looked a perfect picture. The fashionable time ia
England in future is to be 3 p.m.
I saw a paragraph of gush in an Ejglish paper
yesterday in reference to a “ kindly ” and
“ gracious ” act on the part of Mrs. Mackay,
mother-in-law of Prince C donna, you know, who
has ordered the entire layette for the baby Prince
from the Ladies’Work Society of San Francisco,
of which She is directress. Well, it was rather
thoughtful of Mrs. Mackay, I admit; but dear
me, how very easy it must be to bo “ kindly ” and
“gracious” when one is rich! I don’t see that
she sacrificed herself oae bit in ordering all the
pretty things from this society, for according to
the description of the articles they are as
elaborately made as they would have been in the
most fashionable establishment in Paris. The
little blankets were particularly beautiful, and
were embroidered by an old lady over 70 years of
age. How her poor old eyes must have aohed over
that work!
The offlears of the Nelson have lost no time since
they have been in port, before commencing their
gaieties, for last Friday they gave an afternoon
daEce. The ship was gaily cecorated, and dancing
kept up till after, sundown. The Bismarck was m
fete on Saturday afternoon, and on S&nday the
German waislrps bade usa noisy “good-bye,” and
left us.
That giddy young man, Mr. Quong Tart, enter-
tained all the lady cricketers one evening last
week at his rooms, in the Sydney Arcade. I hear
the young ladies enjoyed themselves immensely,
several of them singing solos and giving recita-
tions, and their good-natured host sang his inevi-
table Scotch songs and made funny speeches. He
(Mr. Tart) is rather a long time in finding a bird to
put in tnat neat little oage of his at Wavcrley, but
I really hope he will catch one soon, for he is a
good fellow, although he does Bing Bcotch songs.
We intended to go to Herr Patek’s promenade
concert at the Exhibition building, last Saturday
night, but we were at a tennis party in the after-
noon, and were too tired when we got home to go
in quest of more amusement. I believe the coi-
cert was attended by upwards of 900 people which
augers well for the future success of Her Patek's
enterprise. These conoerts are to be a regular in-
stitution here, and as the admission is only js.
and 35., good music will be within every body s
reach.
I have just this moment received a letter from a
dear little friend of mine whose family has lately
suffered reverses, asking me if I can use my influ-
ence. aDy where in obtaining for her the post of
nursery governess- Poor little thing! she little
knojvs what she is asking for. a nursery governess
in this country ik txjpected to teach English
thoroughly, French, German, music, including
singing and “Thorough Bass,” dancing, and calis-
thenics. She must also be an early riser, and in
the drawing-room two hours before breakfaet and
superintend the practising not only of her own
pupils, but she must also burden herself with the
extra labour of helping the elder girls, who “ for
the name of it,” learn from a professor. She
will be expected to walk out with the chil
dren for a couple of hours each afternoon t
and lest she should have any spare time in
which to do a little sewing for herself, she is
required to be in the drawing-room playing ac-
companiments to any chance visitor till 11 p.m.
And all for what? Thirty guineas a year! So
really, without kjiowiog it, oolonial ladies require
a nursery maid wno has matrioulated at the Uni-
versity and taken her degree, or passed the Civil
service examination. Oh no, I have far too high
a regard for my friend to help her to a nursery
governess-ship. 11l just go and have a talk with
Ned, and see what can ba done for her, so now
gcod-bye.
Ever your loving
MAB
WONDERFUL C3ILD
“Mamma, look at that man near the window with
those awful big ears?” “Hush, child, l wgnder if
he heard me call for that celebrated Bt. Louis
Lager B*er?’ “Well, ma, if he could not hear
you—with those big ears—he oug ht to haul them
in.’'
Have you lost your appetite ? Then take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“I have used Ayhr’s Pious ia numberless
lDStanoes as recoomended by you and have nwr
known to fail to accomplsh the desired result
We constantly keep them on hand at our home,
aud prize them as a pleasint. >«fe. and reliable
fami y medici ie. For Dvsoensi i thev are inv do-
able.— J. T. Hayes. Mexia, Texas, June 1882
As a strengthener of the weak WoWes
Schnapps is absolutely matchless.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Llthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
Aerated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
Btreet. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
All diseases requi ing invigorative treat-
ment are euied by Wiiue a Schnapps.
JjIUENITU* 1 ■ MOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Sotltw streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE. HAT6TANDB t
OHAIRB, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
en«
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
BING and LOUNGE CHAiRB.
Drawing-room suites7lq bxquisitb
taste, the very latest fashion; well worthy o f
inspection, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, feo.
YERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window"
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ED ROOM SUITES complete In various woodu
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney. '
XEEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
JO Designs)—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
H&AP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’gQnnell streets.
PiANOFOKTu, guaranteed auuau
jS&OtP strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
H
h
/“VVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion
VF able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Skives; also in Oak and Walnut, at all price?
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Y7IIGMT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
111 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressingtable an?
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConF.ell-strcet.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &e.
jHhIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
QrConnell-street.
TTI'NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, few
Hi wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
T>RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS-
3J) A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Conneil-at
nhOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-T ABLE
X with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND
marble top, 80s the pair.
U£L SUITE,' for DINING - ROOM SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
BRMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
i CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street..
NG TABLES, with patent extending
irew, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D rN J
(ELF-ADJUSTING MAMMOCK OflAlfc-
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the oceupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
oamp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames art of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, und light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 80s, BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2j. 6d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
for
B
AGATELLK HOARDS. Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered 1b
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
-fiTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Jj TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REIR.L
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-Btroesta.
BEDSTEADS, niekel-plated and black and bras s
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam b
BEDDING.— Ail descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Bpring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
w
I AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustlo
I i Cast-iron Standards, 16s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Bentwood furniTure.-a very complete
Assortment; best make, lew eat prices.


HOSPITAL SUNDAY IN SYDNEY.
“ Chari ty-is kind. . . . envleth not.
. ... is not puffed up. . . . thinketh no
evil.”—Paul. ’‘Alas for the rarity of Christian
charity 1 ’’—Hood.
The “impotent man ” had lain at the door
Of the “ orthodox ” temples full 40 years—
He had heard them chant of the goidea shore,
Where the heavy laden may dry their tears.
He had heard them sing of the realms above
(From which “Dives” the rich man is sure y
barred),
Whose Law is Mercy, whose God is Love,
But the strain somehow on his feelings jarred.
None pitied him, tear, prayer, mournful cry,
On each devotee were quite thrown away;
Their thoughts were so bent on the home on hign,
Theylnegleeted their duty to man to pray.
With smoke from the altar their eyes are blear,
And dim with tears shed for Calvary s woes,
What care they for sorrows which lie so near
For poverty, want which offends the nose.
Falls many a coin in the church-door plate
To grease a fat bishop or build a spire—
" Let Lazarus lie at the temple gate,
The heathen our services now rt quire.
The bigot, “the orthodox ” passed him by,
“The old fashioned Christian of Puritan School
’Tis a creed hard, joyless, bare, and dry,
It has closed it's ears to the “ golden rule.
Your true bigot is hard as a piece of Hint
His flesh and blood have petrified grown,
A fossilised figure of fleshly tint
With brains as of clay, and a heart of stone.
On Bunday, at home, see him saturnine sit
With a face as grim as a heathen god’s
Should an infant a laugh or cry emit,
For flogging, to-morrow, he pickleth rods.
Should a bird at his window try its throat
He scares it with gestures uncouth and wild—
“ln some other garden go pipe your note,
My premises shan’t be, by you, defil’d!”
Is your creed one wider than his at all—
He thirsts for your blood in a legal way.
And sighs for the hour when heads shall fall
On Puritan “St. Bartholomew’s Day.”
Should a pale-faced clerk or a draper dare
From a Sunday steamer to sniff the breeze,
Or walk round the gardens to get the air.
Then “ Praise-God-Barebones ” is on his knees.
He first gives thanks he’s so greatly blest;
Then tells how blasphemers profane God s day,
Suggests that they might be wiped out by a pest
He'll mark their door-posts in the good old way.
If a neighbour enjoys a Sunday weed
That man’s house, he foretells, God will waste
with fire;
Because some folks sing and play, ’tis decreed
That by earthquakes and smallpox we’ll all ex-
pire.
But “ Lazarus” still at the ohurch door lies.
Unless the harsh bigot hath “run him in; ”
For no “ Hospital Sunday Fund” supplies
The needful to doctor this “ man of sin.”
* * *
A “ certain Samaritan ” coming along
An infidel, mayhap, but yet humane,
Was stirred by sympathy, pure and strong,
And shocked at the sight of his fellow’s pain.
In those wounds to pour “ oil and wine ” he’s fain,
So appeal’d for succour to all true men
A rally he sounded with might and main
That was heard in the depths of the bigot’s den.
Like hornets disturbed, quick sallied out
~ Blaok Envy and Malice, his constant mate,
And took in their tra*n their five henchmen stout,
Persecution, Falsehood, Spite, Anger, Hate.
As they buzz’d 'bout his ears, loud hiss'd foul
Hate
“ For churchmen’s care let this suff'rer wait,
He’s ours, forty years hath he graced our gate.
To saints, ’tis presumptuous thus to dictate.
Astonished that right should be class'd as wrong
Samaritan paused, for a time, aghast,
Then seeing ’twas venom that moved the throng
On his errand of mercy qu ckly passed.
And that teed that he sow’d sha'l grow apace
Unchecked by banning of bigot or priest;
Springs charity ne’er from that loveless race
Whose foreheads are stamp’d with “ the sign of
the Beast.”
March 7 th, 1886.
Parted.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It's over now between us two:
Ah, dear! I wonder why
You made me think you would be tru?,
As true to you was 1?
We part: there’s nothing: now to do
But let the love-lights die.
“ Did I love you?” is what you ask,
What! all unwitting still?
My life is in your smile to bask,
Your frown my soul could kill;
To answer you’s an easy task,
I did love—and I will.
And if we never more should meet,
I’d pray for you one prayer—
That God should ever watch my sweet,
And keep her good as fair,
And to the bright land guide her feet,
And bless her, here, and there.
Should I be vexed, when I alone
Have been the cause of pain?
No mere regrets can now atone
Dor pleasure's selfish reign.
We both had happiness, my own,
But who has had the gain?
A memory of what has been,
A whispering through the nights,
A gentle touch no eye has seen,
a dream of dear delights—
Theso are the shadows that we glean
By fond love’s fading lights.
Ah, dear I it ever was the way,
Since mortals feeling had;
The little god of love at play
Drives men and women mad;
The greater is the j jy by day
The surer night is sad.
A T?
A.F.
'Redfern, March, 1886.
The Brisbane correspondent of the
Western Champion (Blackall, Q ), wires:—" The
Rev. J. E. M micon. Tongaa missionary, and
Henry Tallai, a native Toneran teacher, are deliver-
ing addresses in aid of the relief fund for Tongan
missions." To which the Champion editor ap_
pe ds a footnote: —“ Very interesting this; new 8
must be scarce or the Courier old woman drunk.*
TFoljfe’s Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive of health.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, deoorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, tlO'fj Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Something upon which we can rely—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
Vlwne cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“ You say that mentally you are
the laziest of meD. You are too hard on your-
self. You cannot be mentally anything “Riel”:
Good par., but matter already noticed. As you
say, if Charters Towers aldermen are employed to
hatch eggs, the only use for heDS will be to mate
C.T. aldermen of them... “Minmi”: Will prob-
ably use your matter. Always glad to receive
interesting items “Vindex”: There is miracu-
lous appropriateness in the title of your poem, the
“ Gas-lighter.” We will probably use it—in that
way, too...“Neighbour," Surry Hills: Our sport-
ing man will be on hand after morning service
next Sunday.....“ Well-wisher ”: Thanks; have
used portions “G.D.” (Ballarat): Thanks—
No; just now David Buchanan is politi-
cally as inactive as a Silurian toad blasted from
uncreviced r0ck....“ Mudgee ”: If you come to
Sydney see one of the physicians of the Sydney or
Alfred hospitals. If you can’t vißit Sydney, go to
the doctor ofjthe local hospital. Don’t get into
the hands of the quacks....” A.J.8.”: The asser-
tion that while the British monarchy cost the
country £186.000 per annum, the French Republio
cost £450 000, and the American Republic £670,000,
is sheer bunkum. Queen Victoria's privy purse
alone is £385,000 annually; and if you will look at
the Financial Reform Almanac you will see
that the grand total of 12 months’ payments in
connection with the Royal family (not includ-
ing the cost of Royal parks) is about £900,000
“J. Rae”: The allegation was that though the
bank manager gave him an overdraft of thousands,
no one else would have trusted him with a half-
penny herring without holding on to the tail-end
of it “Constitutionalist You descend, or in
your case ascend, to abuse of The Bulletin
because we have ventured occasionally to hint
that Queen Victoria is not a semi-divine compound
of womanly virtues. You assert that none of our
statements concerning her contain one single grain
of truth. Whence comes your authority? Do
you say this simply because your creed prevents
you from believing that a monarch is anything
but an angelic paragon of perfection; if so what
about Queen Elizabeth, Queen Mary, and Queen
Anne? or have you special information on the
subject ? Tell us now, are you the ghost of John
Brown of glorious memory ?.. ..“R.R.”: No, but
the statement as made in the Evening News re-
port was that Sir Charles Dilke’s servant used
to understudy the role of her mistress....“ Ina ”
(Clermont) : Thanks. Curiously enough, we
have the same story in another form this week....
“R. Oscott No; but the significance of it is that
the King of Greece is brother-in-law to the Czar...
“ Deanthropomorphist”: Thanks “ J.D.R.”:
Your supply of metre runs out with the second
line... .“Camera”; With you we applaud the
generous men on the Hastings who freely and
gratuitously gave their help to their neighbour-
Kingsford, who had met with an accident, but
your verses are not as praiseworthy as their
action “D.C.”:Have focussed our eagle eye
upon the papers forwarded “D.S.” (Young):
You say that all denominations attended Bt.
Patrick's picnic at Young, but that the meeting
was very orderly. Your priests and parsons then
must surely be Christians “ Someone ”: The
Washington monument is 555 ft. above the
surface of the ground, and the foundations are
laid 63ft. deep. The Philadelphia Town Hall
tower is to be of greater height, but is not yet
complete “ Ixion”: Verses received. Answer
! her thusly—
“Notfor me a dingy parlor in a bye-street far
apart,
Where a sodden leg of mutton weeps beside a
ruined tart.”
“Roper”: We might have said something of that
Cooktown ball at which Bullocky Liz. was the
belle, but that you say her chap “ could knock out
Larry Foley in two rounds.” That alone nrevents
our printing your letter....“ Thespis”: Yours is
an absurd question. Tell us could you ever write
a good notioe of a girl en the stage if her name
were—say, Bridget O’Bralligan, or Maria O’Grady ?
On the other hand, your soul yearns to a creature
who calls herself Lottie Livingstone, or Tottie
Tremayne. Shakespeare knew nothing about
ballet-dancing when he put that conundrum,
“What’s in a name?’ These fairies borrow a
name because it pays them to do so So Ikey Mo’es
also changes his cognomen to Hector Villeneuve
Vincent, and the man who bears the sacred name
of Cohen is always known as Colquhoun as soon as
he paints “ Oriental, Metropolitan, and Inter-
national Loan, Mortgage, and Deposit Company,
capital, £3,003,000; head office, London,” across his
window.... “Crabthorpe ”: Not pointed enough to
be useful “Ignoramus”: Neither. He was Earl
of Pembroke “C. Melvaine”: Many thanks.
“Philip Augustus”: Don't know th.t much can
be done with it .“ Gospel Truth ”: Next weak.
“A Frenoh physician has discovered that
there is animalcular life in alcohol.” They are
accounted for. Snakes.
It is meet that a poundkeeper should be
a sleeping partner with his brother, who is a mail-
contractor. The other day we met him (the p.k.)
running a mob of fairly fat horses. “Well,
Poundy, you’ve a good cheque in the fees for
that lot.” “By and bye, Scotty, when they’re
poor. We’ll make a bloomin’ sight more out of
them just now, by sweatin’ them in the night-
coach.-’ And yet they’ll refuse a swagman a lift.
When Scotty the Wrinkler has a cheque
of over £5O, he goes to Sydney and sometimes
hires a horse to ride or to drive. One day he hid
thirty shillings’ worth with the hounds, and being a
fair horseman, he took full value, a jackanapes
in greasy cords and odd spurs suggested that he
was taking it out of his nag. s. and W. being a
strict Calvinist, answered and said, “Go to and
read thy Bible. The hireling fleeth because he is
an hireling.” That evening he discovered that he
of the cords and spurs was the livery-stable pro-
prietor.
With a falling market, the swindler and
the mad speculator, no longer having a margin to
mortgage, have their nefarious deeds exposed to
the eye of the world. A certain Sydney solicitor
has gone wrong aid has suddenly taken his depar-
ture. How much he has “ struck ” a trusting
public for will, perhaps, be known only when the
sea gives up its dead and this much-respected
young shark returns from the land where the
pelican builds her nest out of forged bills and the
grey hair of widows.
One of the heroes of the sumptuous cere-
mony of “ opening (the British) Parliament in
person ' was the flunkey specially told off to look
after the Queen’s footstool, who crawled on his
hands and knees up and down the steps of the
throne. An enthusiastic eye-witness found some-
thing peculiarly impressive in the spectacle of this
flunkey “crouching low—almost to the ground.”
But to us there seems something inconsistent
about a wbrm crawling along otherwise than as
a worm. The next time he has to shift the Royal
footstool we hope he will receive the historical
oommand: “On thy belly shalt thou go.”
THE LATE WILLIAM LANDSBOROUGH.
Explorer.
Mr. D. F. Johnston, one of the owners of
the Colanne station on the Barnett River, Queens-
land, has been down in Hobart, and, as an intelli-
gent and inquiring tourist should do, visited the
old convict settlement of Port Arthur. He jotted
down his thoughts, and sent them to his friends in
the North. “ When one sees,” he fays in one
place, “ the flogging or room of torture, entered
through many doors, which were closed to drown
the fearful cries of the poor wretches while under
torture of the lash, which sometimes brought re-
lief in death under its application; the chapel in
whieh each prisoner stood in a box so fixed that
he saw only the preacher and the guard on either
side watching him with loaded carbine; then one
can understand what an awful doom was that of a
convict in that bygone day as compared with im-
prisonment at the present time.” No doubt this
description prayed on the minds of the people on
the Burnett, but with regard to the flogging is it
not after all as humane to kill a man off with
one good dose of the lash as to flog him to
the point of death, revive him with brandy,
doctor him up for a while, and then flog
him again, repeating the routine till the
wretch has been made viler than a skinned
brute? With regard to the prisoner being put
in a box by himself when at religious service, is
it not better than to have him have access to an
elderly lady Bible-reader in such a way as to cause
within the walls of the prison the mad violence
of disposition which jealousy, or any of the thou-
sand sentiments allied to love, creates in the daily
life of the outer world ? Marcus Clarke mentions a
Port Arthur convict who survived the spectacle
of the loaded carbine. The Sydney newspapers
told recently of a man who, instead of being con-
fronted with a loaded carbine in his devotional
humours, was confronted with a female Bible-
reader, and this man was duly hanged 1
It was very thoughtful of Mr. Thomas
Robertson, the tailor, to leave a note beside his
dead body saying be had suicided. B it, owing to
the extreme unreliability of tailors, it is believ ’ d
by the polioe that either he was murdered or is
sti 1 alive
It was a little before half past 10 at night,
when he dashed into the grill-room at Oompag-
noni’s, and said, hurriedly- 1 ’ Waiter, put me on
three chops, and bring me a whole Dutch cheese.
1 have just come from Government House, where
I have been ‘ entertaining myself with conversa-
tion,’ but all I was able to extract from the dining-
room was a curious goblet of lemon[julep and two
custard patties.” Here he swallowed a pickled
walnut. Looking up-to new arrival: “Hullo,
MacDoughl How did you get on? He morely
sat down with a groan, and said, faintly a,s he
divested himself of his light overcoat. waiter;
five Welsh rabbits.”
Wolfe's Schnapps is a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against ali diseases.
Thousands of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Marbles are out, as many a weary mother
knows to her joy, and the very latest game in-
vented is called “The Horse Sale.’ One boy
takes the role of auctioneer, another the horse-
owner, and all the rest, bar one, stand round as
bidders, and eDjoy the fan. The part of the horse
must be played by a boy who knows nothing
whatever about the business. Ignorance is as
essential for this as it is for a Civil service billet.
All things being arranged, the boy-horse is
c'refully blindfolded, one end of a rope is tied
to one of his ankles, and then, unknown to him
the other end is made fast to the door-knob of the
most irascible man about the neighbourhood.
The sale then commences in the orthodox fashion,
and when the biddings have topped the reserve,
the boy-horse is literally “ knocked down, and,
of course, the door-knob is considerably influenced
by the action. In the twinkling of a duck s foot
the gleeful gang are across the street gazing in-
tently at the fun. For an obvious reason, how-
ever, the boy-horse remains where he is, and as
he dances round on one leg, he involuntarily ham-
mers away at the door in a state calculated to
wake a whole pyramid full of Egyptian mummies.
This naturally leads the hot-headed householder
to infer that he is wanted on urgent business, ana
he accordingly sallies out with fire in his eyes,
and a yard of a stick in his hands. The last act of
the game is then played, and it frequently follows
that the boy-horse takes his m'-als standing up,
and sleeps face downwards for several weeks
after. Boys will be boys, however, and the best
plan to tempt them from their mischievous
is to take them along to Summerfleld and Co. a
and treat them to cheap, but firet-clais suit or
clothing *
Wolfe's Schnapps has often been pirated,
but has never had a rival.
As an antidote to the consequence of late
hours Wolfe’s Schnapps stands preeminent,
Victorious. Vlctorl
Victorious.
BT. JA^OB 5 ? Oilr.
sr. Jacobs oil.
Tin drat Fain CtifW.
TOOTHACHE CORED IN 15 MINUTES,
LUMBAGO IN 45 MINUTE 3.
Prahran, Melbourne,
23ad January, 1886.
The Chas. A. Vogeler Company.
Gentlemen,—l think it right to let you know the
effect of your oil in a case of Lumbasro. About
three weeks since I had a very severe attack. I
poured a little oil into a saucer, damped a piece of
linen, and laid it across my lions; put a wet cloth
over that, and an oilskin over the whole. I then
lay down for about three quarters of an hour,
after which I got up, took the compress off,
washed my back with a little warm water, and the
result was that the Lumbago had completely gone.
Persons using St. Jacobs Oil will find the compress
much more effectual than rubbing.
The other night my servant was nearly mad with
tootache, and when she had exhausted her own
little stock of remedies without obtaining relief,
I took a few pieces of wadding, saturated them
with the oil, placed one bit in the tooth and the
other in the ear on the same side, and in fifteen
minutes she was comfortably asleep.
Tours faithfully,
JOHN TAYLOR.
(Mr. Taylor is the oldest Traveller in the employ
of Messrs. Jas. M*Ewan and Co., of Melbourne.)
ST 1 . JACOBS OIL.
CURES WOUNDS AND BRUISES.
TRY IT.
25 Little Edmund-street, off Riley-street. Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have pleasure in giving you my
personel experience of ST. JACOBS OiL, and
trust you will make it public in the interest of
suffering humanity.
Some months since I was set upon by a bull
whilst crossing a paddock, knocked down, and
severely bruised about the body and legs, sustain-
ing an awlul bruise on the ankle, inflicted by his
horns whilst lying on the ground. The painwasmost
excruciating, and, after making my escape, 1 tried
turpentine, oil, and all manner of remedies with-
out the slightest relief, until I applied bt. Jacobs
Oil. Almost instantly the pain left me, and the
swelling disappeared. I have since used it for
rheumatic pains in the knee and leg, and always
with the most beneficial result. In fact, whenever
lam in bodily pain of any kind I fly to St Jacobs
Oil, and give it now my heartiest recommendation.
Yes, I have used it for rheumatism, when I have
been neariy crippled, and found immediate relief.
Yours gratefully,
J. BUOKMAN.
ST. JACOBS OIL is the best known specific
for
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, GOUT,
TOOTACHE. BACKACHE, EARACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES. MUSCULAR STIFF-
NESS, and SORENESS
of any kind.
Daily endorsed by thousands
of Grateful Beneflciaires and the Press,
and the Recipient of
TWO INTERNATIONAL
and Numerous Local GOLD MEDALS.
HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
NEW DESIGNS. PARIS WOVE.
LATEST STYLES.
We have received a full assortment of these
splendid goods, in entirely new designs, and as
their curative properties are so well known that
no description is necessary, we annex a few testi-
monials from local authorities, and shall publish
others from time to time, as evidence of their uni-
versal popularity.
DR SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET FOR HEALTH,
COMFORT AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
LQueanbeyan, N.S.W.,
September 21,1885,
Gentlemen—Having suffered very mucn with
internal pains and backache, I was recommended
to try one of Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, with the
most satisfactory results. They are, in my opinion,
a great public boon, and I do not intend wearing
any other. With thanks. Yours truly,
Mrs. A. MYERS.
DR.SCOTT'S
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC BELTS.
AN ENGINEER’B TESTIMONY
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the s s. North-
umbria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past
twenty-five years, sends us the following state-
ment:— “ About seven or eignt years ago t sprain-
ed my back in lifting an anchor, snd from that
time until I came to you for a belt I never was
well. Excruciating pains in the back and muscles
used to attack me with alarming persistency until
really I could never depend on freedom for a
single day. Having tried so many ineffectually,
you cannot wonder that I purchased your Dr.
Scott's Electric Belt with considerable misgiving;
but I am happy to tell you that since commencing
to wear it I have been entirely relieved, and have
not suffered from any of my old symptoms since.
I am now completely cured; and there are scores
of men in the coastal trade to whom I have re-
commended it, who, from peronsal experience, can
speak as highly of it as myself.”
The prices are as foliowa:—
s.
No. 1 Corset 6
No, 2 Corset
No.;? Corset
No. 5 Corset
Electric Belts
PALL MALL ASSOCIATION*
51MAROARET-STREET, SYDNEY.


our
CHILDREN'S
COLUMN
Again do our young friends the little folks, for-
sake the seductive alley-tor and fascinating cat to
enter upon literary labours. We love to receive
the blotted and ssrawled screeds of our juvenile
M- Mc* I' v% m *t' s ' BU
iuniuSefi. %e advent of these missives to the
editorial tabife is as a sight of the Promised Laud to
the hooktoOsed Hebrew of Old Testament times,
or as a gIaSS of stringy and a sangwidge to one of
the professional unemployed. There is an itmos-
phere of innocence, a savour of simplicity in these
missives which carries us back to the days when
joM frf Tiu 0/ 1 /fa
: y\(EV
> HE
'CUM
001
/TAD 60//v /AirotyAk
Ro-o/v)
t>ur only capital in the world was a handful of
apple-seeds, three commoneys and a chow, and a
threepenny boxer. Now we are worth millions-
ju intellect, and are honoured with the confllen-
tlal missive) of juveniles who write in a fashion
which takes all saccharine awoetness from candy
assimilated by the Jernil children, and causes
the little folks of the Sydney Tribune to curl up
with impotent envy. Here, for instance, is the
quaint recital of a youth whose verse would bring
him infinitely more credit than his spelling; this
is often the way—the brightest literary genius we
ever knew always spelt Alfred with a ph, two d’s,
and an i, and News with two o’s and two e’s. But
we would introduce our contributor, who writes:
“ Gum phlat Gulch.
“ Deer Mr. Editor,— Wot a funny namb. We
gets The Buleteen regler, an’ I redes the littul
fokes korner, an’ i want to tell you bout suih fun
with pa an’a servent we used to have; her naifil
wos Mary, i made it up into sum virses
Tom Smith an’ me a flahin’ went,
an’ 2 live krabs we cort:
we put ’em intea Mary's bed,
an’ wated for sum sport.
Mam, she went out to tee that nite,
but dad cum home to late,
An’ Mary she went orf to bed
jes shortly after 8.
An’ then ther wos sum life you bet,
our Mary she did yd ;
Her screams was louder than fog-horns
Or our nu flar-bell.
Then dad went in to Mary's room
to try and stop the rou,
an’ jeB then mam comes in an* sings
out, " Wot’s the matter now.”
When dad cum out from Mary's room
i thort i shoud ha dide
to see the way mam went for him
i laffed ontil i cride.
She se?, you retch; he scs, my deer,
jes liss9n to me pray,
an’ then thay sentjme orf to bed,
an’ Mary left nex day.
That’s all. i am 10 yeers ole the 21 day next munth.
i .pose you don't give any burth-day presses, do
you?
Sammy Green.”
[You are a good boy, Samuel. Thank you, very
much.— Ed. B.]
From the sceptical tone of the following writer
we fear that he will bloom into another Josh
Byrnes;—
Editor Bulletin.—" Dear Sir,—l don't bleeve no
kids writes them letters what you put in the Chil-
dren's colum of THe Bulletin. Evary one siys
I am a most intelligent child, and I cant write
letters like them. Pi says if I was like some of
the Jernil kiddies he could send some of bis darks
away and get me to keep his books. He sayS a
young man at three years of age should be looking
about him for some profitable imployment to fol-
low. He remarked I would never be a prodigy,
my hair was too red, and he never recollected
seeing a gold-topped infant wonder. That was a
bad speech for pa to make. Ma is slight’y Inclined
to be auburn, and very much inclined to be mus-
cular; pa is slight and short, with very little hair
to speak of. Ma heard his observation and
swooped, when she swoops something has to shift,
on this occasion it was pa, he shifted right into the
yard with the toe of ma’s No. 3 waving frantically
behind him. He didn’t know she heard him, or be
wouldn’t have spoken that way. Sometimes I feel
sorry for pa, sorry that he got married yon know ?
though perhaps If he had not I would not have
been here now. I mnist tell you about pa and the
cow. He bought a cow and a little calf the other
day, and a man brought them home and put them
In the yard. Next morning It was necessary to
separate the infant ox from its mother, and pa
wen t in the yard to perform the feat. I don’t
think he understands dairy farming to any great
extent. He is too rash with veal. He caught the
calf by the neck and tried to stick him under the
hen-coop. The cow was watobing the proceedings
with a critloal eye, and just as pa was pulling the
hen-coop over the little ox, she protested. It was
a stubborn protest, and I don’t think pa will sit
down on anything but a pillow for the next fort-
night. That’s where the cow hit him; he was very
much surprised at her assaulting him. He had
been reading about the gentle kine and the soft-
eyed milch oows till he believed the books were
true. He doesn’t believe that now. Says oows are
dangerous and bloodthirsty, and he is willing to
swap our cow and calf away lor a good second-
hand wheelbarrow, or a yellow pup. He says city
milk is good enough for him, anyway. I will telb
you about pa and Boxer, our bull-dog, next time Ii
write. lam going to Sunday-school now. Yours
truly,
„
henry J. Burns. ’
: [Don’t bs ashamed of your red hair, Henry. We
have heard It whispered that when Dan. O’Connor
was young his hair was of the most brilliant hue,
which rumour is said to account for his fiery
speeches when the Redmonds were here and at
other times.—Ed. B.]
Wi? would direct attention to the first line of the
next contribution. It is a testimony of the pat*
riotic fervour of our Australian youth, A boy’s
first thought should be ever of his native town,
and its beauties—especially those of the female
persuasion.
“ Dubbo, February 42nd, 1608.
“ Dear Sir,— l live in Dubbo and Dubbo is a
nice place—to die in, and I see you like little chil-
dren to write to you and I hope this will flod you
in good health as it lea—[Stop here.— Ed. B.] I
adore your Children's page, and saw a picture of a
bull-dog tied to your chair. I would like to have
him. I have two pets- one lives ne:»t door and has
Ml H ?ETg
curly hair, but her ma keeps her eye on me; the
other is a monkey trlining for a Salvationist to
carry the tambureen round. Igo to school
because I am handy at helping the teacher when
he is fogged over a lesson. We have some Salva-
tion Army in Dubbo; were you ever saved, sir ?
Ma is. She got struck on the Captain, and she
confesses. Pa heard her at it once and got real
mad when he heard some of what she’d been play-
ing up on him. One night she told them she had
been blacker than ink, or the Devil, or Jackson
thefltin’ man; hut hallelujah! she is now whiter
than a bush missionary’s conscience. She advises
pa to go and find grace, and he often does. Grace
<?A TifiV&CrM CE
is our cook. Will you please tell me the best way
of getting- to see my girl next door without her
ma*s knowing (she’s 2)4, I’m 3), and what will get
tarts out of the pantry ?
“ Jbnningsow Kasse.”
[Your best way to see your girl would be to get,
her to join the Salvation Army and then become a .
convert yourself. There is heaps of fun in a holi-
ness meeting. We decline to advise you on the
tart question. Tarts are vanity.— Ed. B ]
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe's;
Schnapps.
Kidney complaint, one of the most common and 1
yet most neglected diseases of this country, can be ■
reacily cured by the u eof Hop Bitters. Be sure >
and get American CVs make. See
Wolfe'a Schnapps should be in ev,ery house* •
Mb. Di Ooubot Bbowni (late Deputr
of the Mining Board of New SoAh ■
wales), Author of the “Miners’ Htndy Book,"
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” nnd " Manual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser, •
SPji- Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
t*W, e ’ s Schnapps promotes assimilation of 1
the food.


HOWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now he also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Tour sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
bands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
HE BANK OP NEW ZEALAND.
-* SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT- STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STA T ES OP AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES
AND CLEANED
REPAIRED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
BELTS.
CURATIVE
ELECTRIC
ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never- failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by weariDg the MAGNET [CAL
ELECTKIC APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of life-
electrieity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration oi
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’B ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 3s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 30s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10«. Insoles— which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra
The pnblic are warned against worthless imi a-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and PO. Orders tc
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD A CO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists. Leaders, Telegrams
and Bydney Letters, supplied by competen
literary man of long experience, on moderafr
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular and fat producing
elements. Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd llesli in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewoases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine fe the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Cent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and ail
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases. Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few suoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One Ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIE., LONDON.
0
P&SS 1 *
I*
S#
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
FROM
mIL CHEMISTS
INI0&2OOZ B 0T s
WHOLESALE AGENT
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0.,
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time i became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’S Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within .my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
PREPARED BY •'
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Soldi by all Druggists.
BLLIOTT BROS, and 8 HOFFNTJNG & CO
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 imm SALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
I3F* Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
4SS LADY’S BALB.
® Ladies’ Chemises
“pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£IMOUKNING BALB.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Sat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 8 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of JB6.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
S rices, and full instruction for self-measurement.
! applied to.
RILET BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the oelebrated £6 Bales of Drapery
MOULTONS
LITER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
iSKNCEf-LIF
.
only mtautbie remedyf for
i/bifsJJEBiLiTYT
THERE are many men m this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
turden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering lua existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hate, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
Ho is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space <->f Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Knioying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervou« and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials
In cases at 13s , or four quantities in one, for 365.;
If by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pc st Office Order, ©r Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
A DAY WITH THE DRAPERS.
It was not to be, for one moment, sup-
posed that we, as abstract and “ brief ” chroniclers
of the times, would let an opportunity escape us
of beholding-, commingled upon the verdant
sward in healthful recreation, all the talent of the
tailors—all the dons of the drapery. We know our
duty to our constituents and to Society we trust,
too well to let pass such an event as the Sydney
drapers’ picnic with no record of its varied en-
chantments—no picture of its dazzling delights.
But we don’t mind telling you that even had not a
stern sense of duty called us, we should still have
been there; had we not been impelled thither by
the action of circumstances, we should yet have
been on the spot, for that gathering possessed for
us, independent altogether of the festivities sur-
rounding it,a weird and powerful fascination.
* * *
It is possible for one to dwell for an
unconscionably loDg time in this city without
even seeing a draper s assistant either habited in
his coat or adorned with his hat; and similarly,
perhaps, not even the “oldest inhabitant’’ of
these regions will have beheld, in all the varied
phases of his existence, a shop-walker without his
long frock-coat, his classical “ wave,” and his
superior smile. There was a time when we be-
lieved that a shop-walker would never unbend—
that in his most social and domestic moments he
was never out of an “ attitude.” By and by, how-
ever, there came to live in our street a very tall
man, with a very short wife, and three melodious
children. A whisper went up and down the street
that the tall stranger was shop-walker at Bobbins,
upon which the residents of our street (a slavish
lot) nearly smothered the adult strangers with at-
tentions, and the children with treacle. The
juvenile portion of the residents were not behind-
hand either in the payment of their attentions,
and would, as occasion required, “ siDg out ” to
the mother upstairs (being deceived by her sta-
ture), “ Hi, Melial Tell your mother to come
down. The Chinaman wants his eighteenpence.”
Well, it transpired that when at home this shop-
walker of Mr. Bobbins’ did unbend. One night
we were invited to surreptitiously peep through
the front-room window and behold him in the
act. We peeped. The fond father was there right
enough, clad in a dog’s-wool-and-oakum jacket,
plush slippers, and a carpet smoking-cap, playing
“ honey pots ” with the children, while mother,
outside, was dishing up the beef-and-liver tangle.
To be a honey-pot you have to clasp your hands
over your shins and collide with honey-pots simi-
larly situated. If you capsize a honey-pot that
counts one to you, and—well, we can’t remember
the exact technique of the game, but we have
a distinct recollection of seeing the shop-
walker to Bobbins a honey-pot in the full
degradation of the character, butted about by his
children, and the feeblest of the feeble on his
“pins;” yet, in spite of all the ridiculousness of
the situation, he was, when the family allowed
him to attain a perpendicular position—a honey-
pot with an attitude 1
* * *
It will now be patent to you all that from
the moment we saw the picnic announced in the
amusement columns of the papers that we re-
solved to be present. Besides the list of enthrall-
ing entertainments advertised with the lavishness
that betokens the great mind of the draper-be-
sides the catalogue of sports set forth in that splen-
dour of style which only the soft-goods prince can
be said to have successfully mastered-there was


to be revealed that spectacle so rare to mortal eye
—a completely attired draper. It would cost
money to be present-that we knew—but we must
be there! This was an occasion on which to
scatter gold, for it is necess iry for the historian
to attend such a gathering as this with his vizor
down. Otherwis > the draper (who becomes a little
wearing on certain subjects) will say to you, with
a friendly jerk of the elbow, nine times in nine
minutes, “ I say, mister, mind you give us a good
report.” Ah! what a thump our heart gave us as
we caught sight of the distant steamer, gay with
the bunting of ages, that was to convey us to the
trysting-place of the fabric-flutterer — Clontarf.
A thrill went through us as we approached nearer.
We were on the point, we felt, of meeting some
old friends. Something told us that, somewhere
amongst the smoke-wreaths, we should encounter
the draper seductive, the draper delusive, the
draper c Ugagi, and the draper morose. We think
of them all, it is the draper dtgagi we knew the
best. He had, so far as we remember, a stall all to
himself, at whioh he sold jewellery, gloves, scent,
and other articles of an enchanting though costly
nature, in which the attractions of the vendor
caused us to invest to an extent that we feel now
was beyond our means. He was a short, thickset
young fellow with a luxuriant crop of hair, which
he evidently twisted without remorse into paper
every night, and elaborately soothed with the
grease of the bear (native or arctic) every morn-
ing. His whiskers, which were ample, were, if
possible, more curled than his hair, while he had
his moustache and imperial fiercely spiked a la
militaire. He wore his shirt-collar low, and
affected the Walter Montgomery tie. His manner
was perfect! This draper digagi had one set
phrase which was our destruction whenever we
heard it; yet many is the
time when we have de-
tected ourselves drawing
him out, knowing all
the while that three mia-
utes of his society would
entail the purchase of a
cake of soap and a brazen
collar-stud. He would
flutter afan, for instance,
with the air of a Tycoon,
and say— ‘ This fen, now,
let me show you—hand-
painted—each piety ah a
work of hart “We
suppose we’d murmur
in a confidential tone—
when he would immedi-
ately fall into the trap.
‘Yes; ob, yts,” he’d
reply, ‘ quite de rigger,
1 aBsuie you—quite ce
rigger in the upper
suckhs.” We would then
sink on to a chair, and be
could revel in our gold.
For long years we pur-
chased, at frequent inter-
vals, goods ol this dtgagi
young man, and never
without saying interro-
gatively —“ w e apprehend
this is de rigger;’’ to
which he would gravely
reply - "in the upper
suckles,’’ and se d us out
into the street doubled
up like a ball.
* * *
The steamer was at
Princes Siairs—a place to
us of gloomy rtm nis-
cences. Many is the time
we have left them brave
in buojancy and strong
in spirit, only to be de-
posited there again, in
the gloamirg, a sour and
revengetul mortal. Pic-
nic port has sometimes
occasioned this strange
metamorphosis—and not
unfrequently a special
brand of champagne
"that will be the very
thing for the reporters; ”
but generally the oratory
has been the cause of our
discomfiture. On this oc-
casion, however, we had
no uneasiness as to the
result. All was bathed
in sunshine, and, as we
neared the boat and be-
came conscious half the
Burwood band,which was
blasting out a selection
known only to them-
selves, was on the Quay,
we lelt that this >vas a
gala day indeed 1 To pur-
chase a ticket of a young
man draped in blue, and
to board our steamer, was
the work of a moment.
The boat was crowded, so
we sought out a seat—
the only one vacant—on
the upper deck near the
funnel, and with the sun
at 120, and the funnel at
1840, enjoyed a few com-
fortable moments prior
to the start. A little more
delay and we should
have shed tears through
ourboots. Once started,
however, and the breeze
began to operate, we dis-
covered ours was the
most joyous spot in the
ship. This becoming pat-
ent to two young women
m dark-blue gowns and
vermilion trillings, they
edged up a bit off Ehrs
Point, or Bradley’s Head,
or the Bottle and Glass,
or somewhere, and one
of them, alter much
picturesque fingtrihg of
a block-tin bracelet, ad-
dressing herself to us,
Baid, with a giggle, “Are
you a draper, sir ?” “ No,
ma’am,’’ we replied,
grav ely; 'our trade.knows
more of horses than hosi-
ery-we are undertakers.”
On this she clapped her hands, and gave a merry
laugh. “Just what my sister, Milly, said. When
she saw you, sir, she knew it Immediate.” What
could we do hut bow our acknowledgments to the
other lady, and look with somewhat of depression
upon the prospect ?
s s «
Talking of “depression” reminds us that
lying parallel with us at Princes Srairs was one of
our lamiliar floating palaces, containing a party of
lour gentlemtn in black, a boy in soiled canvas,
and a dog This craft—whose appearance at once
denoted uproarious festivity—was labelled, “Book-
sellers’ and StatioLers’ Picnic,” and the dilatori-
ness of the B ’a and S.’s in coming “ forred ” had
had such an effect upon a little committeeman,
that tie appeared covered with indignation as with
an übter. Nor did a request for “ an Echo, please,
sir,” from a jocular member of our company tend
in any way to mend matters. We never, indeed,
saw an order for that innocent little jouroal pro-
duce so much Irasoibility before ; though we
must confess we have seen people similarly
affected after reading itl
•
We are there, and stand upon Clontarf’s
burning sand while the strains are wafted towards
us (a boon the breeze affords us) of the rest of the
Burwood band. Turn, turn. They file in by their
hundreds, a remarkably smart lot, but our heart
sank within us &8 we asked ourselves the question,
“ Are we drapers ?” If not, we were in any case
undone. How could we again face the office after
scattering its wealth in an idle jaunt ? And, worse
than all, of what had been the value of our study
of the genus ?—what return had we received for
QUr outlay in ’bus tickets—for tbe amount of law-
ful currency we had expended upon goods of a
“ fancy ” description ? On the other hand, could a
coat and hat so effectually disguise a race that we
—impossible! At the tail of the new arrivals
filtered in a committee-man. He wore a smiling
face and his badge of office, and his moustache
announced (somewhat indiscreetly, as it seemed
to us) that he had but shortly before partaken of a
glass of porter. To him we bluntly; but civilly,
put the question, “ Do they, or do they not belong
to the trade ?” He caught us by the iappel and
swung us into the shade of a spreading flagstaff
before replying. “ Not 30 per cent,” he said
hoarsely; “ and I’ve worked for this!” When he
had uttered these words, the gentleman walked
away with his head bowed, in a dejected manner,
and would (from his aspect) have probably walked
into the ocean had he not received a timely hail
from a numerous party whose appearance pointed
suspiciously to the fact of their possessing some-
thing in a bottle. Nothing else, we believe—such
was the nerturbation of his feelings—would have
stopped him at this juncture. We gazed around;
the scene disclosed was pregnant with life in many
of its most glorious phases. Taere was foot racing,
and cricket, and dancing in the pavilion ( ‘no two
gentlemen allowed to dance together”), and, to
crown everything, that delightful and intellectual
pastime, “ putting the 14B>. weight.” This portion
of the sports occurred after luncheon, and was a
tremendous spectacle. We only waited, however,
to see one competitor give evidence of his skill.
This must have been considerable; for, though he
only “put ” the Iron about 4ft.. he was successful
iu scattering to the winds about 800 spectators.
* * *
[We wish to remark, at this juncture, that
SABA BERNHARDT.
great praise was due to the president and Secre-
taries lor their exertions in making the affair a
success. Yahl]
* • *
Our admiration for the primitive pastime
of foot-racing being well known, It will not sur-
prise the reader to learn that we laid ourselves out
to see the 150 yards handicap. This started about
12.30, and in viewing the athletes before the strug-
gle, we could not help remarking that the rule
laid down by the committee as to the attire of the
competitors ordained rather that it should be
“ chaste” than “appropriate.” Most of them, in-
deed, were “professional” so far as their socks
and drawers reached, but decidedly motly as to
the remainder. But let us be just: there was one
exception. This was a gentleman, so pe feet
his professional attire, that it seemed, as you
looked at him, that the whole world would be un-
able to afford pedestrianism of a class proportion-
ate to the completeness of his equipment. He was
lightly handicapped, and we at onoe singled him
out an easy winner. In the result, however, it was
proven that however much olothes may “make
the man,” picturesque tights by no means make
the runner; for our nero finished such a disreput-
able last that the winners were half through their
return drink, a quarter of a mile off, before he
had limped forlornly over the prostrate tape. [We
may remark, here, that our thanks are due to the
see. of sports, Mr. Sandon, for the evident pates he
had taken iu making the handicap, &c„ a success.]
♦ * *
But if there was humour in the athletic
sports, how many hearty laughs were to be ex-
tracted from the.cricket match. Theknotching-
board ” was set up under a tree, which, while it
exhibited more shade than a three-pronged fork,
would have been badly beaten in that respect by a
bat-raek. The competitors were selected from ’he
houses of Messrs. Thompson and Messrs. Cater,
and they (with the secretaries) are certainly enti-
tled to the thanks of the community for their un-
tiring exertions in making a success of the match 1
We visited this contest on several occasions,
and each time had to retire in a precipitate
and unseemly manner, in order not to attract
towards ourselves the attention (and subsequent
vengeance) of the cricketers. On one occasion,
though, we were very nearly being detected. A
youthful batsman having made a two, had com-
fortably reached his ground, when the bowler at
the other end scattered his wicket with a throw of
unerring aim. “How’s.that, umpire?” was the
cry. “Out,” cried the marksman, triumphantly.
“ I say * not out,’ ” said the umpire, a youth in a
pair of black pants and a “ pot ” hat, mildly. “He
says ‘ not out,’ ” said the batsman, still lingering at
the Gates of Paradise. “But I say you are out,
and out you go I ” cried the bowler, fiercely. And
out he did go. and had hardly! time to agree with
the rest of his side that, in these cases, the um-
pire’s decision should be final, when his successor
was bowled with a “Yorker” that would have
demoralized Barlow. The defeated one reached
the shade of the spreading chestnut, gloomy, but
composed; and he, too, was beard to instantly
agree that in eases of this kind the umpire’s deci
sion must certainly be regarded as final The
• wicket” which was innocent of matting was
about as level as the bed of a dry creek, after a
fight between two alligators. The bowling, in
consequence, was of a most deadly description,
the bail in the hands of the trundlers partaking at
times considerably.©! the character of a firework
One bail we ikW strike the ground about mid-
wicket, soar high over the batsman’s head, and
take his near side bail, just as he was spitting on
his hands to get ready for another swipe.
• * •
In intervals of looking on at this enter-
taining contest, we contemplated the dancirg in
the new pavilion, and also the feats of a feeble
little boy who did “ Blondin ” on a cable elevated
about 4ft. high, and balanced himself with tbe
aid of a pole which appeared like unto Goliah s
spear, “ tnick as a weaver’s beam.” He went for-
wards and backwards, then backwards and for-
wards, while his family watched for his safety
with open arms below. This terrific performance
over, and the intrepid rope-walker having been
restored whole in mind and body to his friends,
we shook his father’s coat-cuff and entreated bim
to cherish that youth. “ When you perform
before Lord Carington and the other crowned
heads,” we suggested. “ perhais the rope might
be a trifle—eh ? ” “ Sir,” interrupted the father
of the phenomenon, “I am pledged to that. At
the dizzy elevation of 13ft will my child exe-
cute Blondin’s most difficult feats, fils the risk
mine the responsibility.” “ Prosper Lion-hear' I”
we murmured, and walked ponderiDg.to wards the
pavilion.
* * *
We were passing airily in the wicket-gate
which leads to the main-door of the new pavilion,
when we were accosted by a not uncivil personage
upon whose brow the perspiration hung io ropes,
and who demanded our ticket. Equal to the oc-
casion, we immediately produced the counterfoil
of the pasteboard purchased by us of the draper
on the Quay .land were passing triumphantly in
when be arrested our progress, and stated, in so
many words, that for tripping in the mazy, on tha
occasion, an extra tiohet costing a shilling was
necessary. He then pointed to a primitive pay.
hole on his right where differences of would-be
votaries of Terpsichore, and the committee were
settled with the aid of either steel or silver. The
call of duty alone was our excuse for electing to
deal with the latter m*-tal, for certainly there was
nothing in the drap-rs “ ads ” to lead one to be-
lieve that extra money would be charged for
dancing. This sharp practice on the part of the
committee was evidently the cause of much dis-
satisfaction amongst the guests, for, on our return
to the wicket-gate, we discovered it to be be-
sieged by a considerable crowd -the male portion
of which was decidedly averse to “ parting” the
extra Robert. We have a shrewd idea—to adopt
a popular term—that it was only at the last
moment the committee resolved to make this ob-
noxious extra charge, because, in the tickets
issued, there is no mention whatever of the
pavilion, and the counterfoil which we have
before us read as follows:—" Drapers’ annual
picnic, February 26. Return ticket. Admission
to the ground.” This is printed in red ink, while
the other ticket, which you purchased prior to
boarding the steamer, and which purports to pass
you from hall to hall of dazzling light, is printed
in blue. We have mentioned this, because a con-
tract is a contract, if only a .two-bob one; but we
do not wish to detract from the zeal of the presi-
dent and secretaries, whose efforts to make the
affair a success were Indeed as vigorous as they
were untiring. .
• ■ •
Onoe inside the pavilion, and you forgot
having been beguiled of your silver. Yqu reoog-
nised, if your mind was at
all liberally constituted,
that the spectacle un-
folded was worth more
than the price of adnrs-
Bion. it was difficult at
once, on entering, to ob-
tain a view of anything
except the band, in conse-
quence of the crowded
state of the place; but
with a little persever-
ance, it was possible to
effect a tour of the room,
where varied entertain-
ment encountered you at
every step. As we en-
tered, about 2000 young
men and young women
were dancing the alberta
to the severe strains of
(by this time) the com-
bined Bur wood Band.
These musicians,familiar
after long with the
tune, permitted them-
selves to be fantastic in
their execution of it, a d,
consequently, the pavi-
lion rang with melody of
a nature which was un-
known to the Halls of
Taia even r. e fore their
much-vaunted harp was
hung up mute upon a
nail. The band were
certainly putto very into
trouble trum an artistic
point of view, since all
they did was to hammer
away at a ligure cf tne
aiberts until shuffling of
feet warned them to de-
sist, and tnen cnange the
tune with an airy bold-
ness, as if the idea had
originated wholly and
soiejy with themselves.
The company was pretty
evenly Datanced a* to
sexes, and the girls were
as retnarhaole tor pretti-
ness as they were for
abSunce of style. Their
dieases were for the mesc
part ot poor mateiiii ant
the ornamentation gar-
ish, but all were heat
about the shoes and
stockings, and the extent
of tneir silk gloves re-
vealed the fact that
thuugh perhaps these
young ladies could not
justly aspire to be aris-
tocratic, tney could at
lease lay claim to be
genteel. The young men
afforded us muon en-
tertainment. Tneir smiles
and bows when they
“set to partners’’ cuilod
us up at every footstep.
Witnout tneir coats wheu
in the tnroes of tne polite
atteuiioLS engendered by
a worship of terps-
caichoretney would have
looked iwuatever they
really were) drapers to a
man. Shortly betore leav-
ing the pavilion, an ex-
ceedingly smart young
man asacd us to oblige
him with the time. We,
glad of au opportunity
of flashing our Water-
bury in such a numerous
company, obliged bim re-
adily enough, and, baving
done so, enquired wbat
■ house ” he belonged to.
“ -Ruffling aud Trous-
seau, 'he replied. We
trusted that the value
of his appointment was
in keeping with his dis-
tinguisned appearance.
“ Oh, yes,” ho said, with
a laugh, “I oan’t com-
plain; my billet about
tops the iot.” “Inde d V
we said, in a congratula-
tory tone. “Oh, yes,”
ha rejoined proudly, “I'm
the driver of their new
suburban cart.”
* m m
' We should like to
tell you more about the
picnic, but time presses, and even as we are
writiDg this a howl has gone up for “copy,”
which cannot be, with prudence, disregarded. It
would have amused you to have heard, too, how
we went into the temperance bar annexe, and
boldly tackled the half-crown lunch “arranged
for ” by the committee, and how we beat a hasty
retreat before three mutton cubes and a floating
island of cabbage. Many of you would have liked
to have hoard how we subsequently lunched with
the members of the committee—John Davies and
Ab g iil—in a little room leading off the kitchen of
the notel, and loaded up with cold tongue and
mashed potatoes, the latter being continually ex-
tracted hot and hot from the stove, and served by
the waiter with much heartiness and dexterity.
No; there is really no room for any more. In-
deed, it is only by squeezing that we are enabled
to conclude this article by—we quote from the
daily paper—“ thanking the president and secre-
taries for their exertions in rendering the affair
the bright and merry success it undoubtedly was.’
Wolfe's Schnapps enjoys an unbounded
popularity unsurpassed by any other article in the
colonies.
Notioe!—Reliable Old Australian Vfines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
When your food tortures instead of
benefltting you, then is the time to take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.


S ft ° f f favourite taWM
Am,®* the bre»f^ te<l *rreat care from hat
° f the celebrated firm of
©‘iSi®! oo - Dublin, and therefore
* he procured everywhor*,
B°t« Agents.
are now
& SHAW
Hov
iPf no/i
opening (almost dailjl
t( Pri
elties
for the
W/Ae AUTUMN SEA LON.
'■ tg ATIe NTION has been given by our
In T ; «
t ao{ n London to the growing require-
trade, and we shall have
for inspection
tie foil
c ° W,tIK Goods THIS DAY
r Jh! Bp? ’ ETrE GLOVES, four and six
A ,“ e fewest winter shades
"FLORA” K r D GLOVE
»<^* > *mo 8 oI i> u,s wbde olove ' “ *’*
SHAW ’S PLUSHES and VELVETS,
HjPLr »!" ;SNEW STRIPED VELVETS
Bin? >1
« S NEW MERVEILLEUX
LATEST fashion
2cisaME S R II RGEB ' STRTPE CAN '
. El LlMno® BLACK CASHMERES,
N^MffiSSinf* 1 ° ther ° eW blaCk
SILK CRAPES, VERY BEST
J(;I l^^1a t 1, ’i BE AU ri FUL AUTUMN COS-
K ln pricea from 255. to 8 guineas
V 5? 8 ’ NfiW FRILLINGB and LACE
yt
ks ®°SIERY, NEW CUFFS and
n., and Children’s Underclothing
lowers
and Feathers, Millinery
SHAW,
Geqrge-street.
AEvaseuNE.
e^es
41
A
hln
v 8 p u . 1.1 is the solo materi
“Old bv tn 1 ? tlle Austrian ai
k). an> Dy aU Saddlers and Btox
M
\ & CO.p
IRONMONGER!
Bydney.
'%f Aotmd
g EoS p RINg matters
, L st^et
N^Te^E-V
, -^XILLACE,
\h. if ' l2 Borl »‘ tlon o*
Si vf Pantile
a/i^
NNITM ky
«• 3TDNXT
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
mt
'M
m
a
v
1
m
H
&1
S
r»*s"?
1$
M
i^*J
e&
w.
-i 1
iS
art
S^
ss
E£
sau
slilf
BASS PALM ALB.
Th« bmst ALB ant STOUT in the Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WQTBf
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchln, Johnston & Go.,
Commhrciad Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
mHB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OYER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
*y THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing- mueh
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half tpe space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the, letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, editorsand authors,
reporters, and all men!of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole fftrents,
IMRAY and CO„
86 Glarenoe-street.
The Mercantile. Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BT ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capita L...... A300,00a
Reserve Fund .*165,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird. Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, ML.O.
C. Roileston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jm. BcrorsrlA, Baq.
H. *. Oohen, Bsq.
GfimUL IiAKAO*!
W. A. A. Wilaon.
Bkibbtabt:
Hector Allen*
I bbjlhohbs ik Naw South Walks :
Haymarket, Pynaont, Bedfern, Gosford, Nynsrsn,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
BBAKOH IK QUMKSLAWD :
” i Brisbane.
Lokdok Bbakoh : 168 Leadenhall-etreet.
Directors:
Idward Chapman, Bag.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.O.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Beg. _
Geo. H. Alexander, leg.
Mjlnagih : Geo. H. Alexander, Boa.
Lowdow Banubs:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Pisan
dal Agency Business on the most favourableterma
Bills discounted dally.
Buis negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to Bngland for sale.
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into th*
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it. *
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OP UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order ; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, i and free from acidity: full and crisp."
TRAPP A ELLES,
Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
DR. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLHREAGH-ST
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty,
BOX UQ G.P.O.
fgh
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 3.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
8. Hoffnung & Co.
MUTUAL FIBB SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital-JtIOO.O
BONU
lE&s?
!?/v uj/ffcj,jpjwlip^'
»®-Head .Office*. «»
First Fire Society establish In vne coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders bach
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-ho’ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
Walter OfIURCH, Manager
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
A. ft C. HUENERBEIN,
- - ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
-' v - AND
Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brlnsmoad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Planes sold on terms to suit purchasers.
t3r THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALE PRICE.
J. MURPHY S
Control Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-£treet.
Money Lent. at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tli s City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clot hing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at nates never before att( mpted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Loan and Dig-
count Offices, cornerof Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
fTIHB AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LI V B STOCK
i INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... *lOO,OOO,
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Egq„
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. ff
„ Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Piers, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Bisks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch; 171 Castlereagh*street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
yj
s# 5
v
irjb'
jr S? J? *'V v *
*v>>V:.. V
* 54
Messrs. 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
DR. BRIGHT'S PHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of EnergyBick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Bold by all chemists.
Agents- Kiuuott Bros.
C. B. HODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON.-London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BOSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorgo.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
The fresh food and ice comp an x
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
. 23 Rteyal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, *o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food A Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. .. •„ JBI Harbour-street
Stables ••• ♦* esc •• Liverpool-atreete
Factory ••• Mittagong.
New Central Dispensary,
53 MARKET STREET,
Two doors from Fvenino New* Office
(O*
T. JON.
Ph. C., M.P.S., ant.
(LATE T. ELLi.
Prescriptions prepared by qualifit
at Reform Prices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, Tram t ermlnus, Sydney,
and Suva, riji.
Orders sent by post promptly executed.
Medicines forwarded to any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) can
be sent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
IXHi»n
r!S«
mmm
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for BALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AMD
IARTHENWAR
ja,
WINES, BEERS, AWD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whlsfcy
J. BORIN and GO.’*
Cognac.
J, T. GAYBN’B
Schnapps and Goners.
▲. MELYTN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
v **m
NOJLdWVHXDo\j^^
Va I/WHONX SVVMOHY eY
f ■ a« Amo,a»a»djaii •**
‘SHonoo
SMHONOUff
ft" 3an o ,
M
Via\iOHdn]l
I j S.FVVHDNJ
■auslHi
; —ssgissS— -seS*


TH°
s
m
$ on
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Platt
o
vA
a
BO NA- FID ER EDUCTION
n'
&39 &3 41 Ge orce Si Sydney
1 AND AT
EL BoIuRNE,
Quirn Laroche
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION.
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, _ DRINK IT I
At all Drunrlsti and Chemists,:
DRl>'*
MB**?'
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FEY & SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— lanobx.
mwk
DH. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
s’x-zdite'z-, isr.s.’w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases* chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or-opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the' city for treatment, medicine
can be sent fey post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to i
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence, )
producing some of the following effects: —Her- 1
vousness, Debility, Dimness ©f Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on th.e Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
maaeat, safe, ana private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
otergry Kindi, from whatever cause, promptly cared. - —-
It is self-evfaeHt that«’physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attain* great skill,'
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
aadr#ss DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street (okotjnd i*loob), Sydney.
BUDGEBEE! BUDGEBEE! !
Trade
SU
Mark.
KTO MOEE F2SVISR.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT ifl the most wonderful Germ-killer a»4 {
destroyer known, No household should be without it, as it instantly kill* a ll 1
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &o. Sold at all chemists. -Jm
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bullotln-lano, Lower Pi"' 1
DO BUST JBUTOHBB * 0.0
(Late William Long),
WT WINS AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
ANHOOD,RESTOP
mm a Clerrymim k»rin|r tried
forth* CURE of NERVQU
ON, PREMATURE DEC
TI __ ,
MM diooovered a *ha;
SffigH
pi* seEfSu^JJ
ft* Mk* of anffwiitf luunuutfi he wiß
«m Fr**oripti*» which CURED &*•»
BULL DOa ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
miß sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst*
* | auenching properties of this worid-renowned
Sotttthg of Baas’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. tho highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
ALE, which is to be oowunea or au tne ieaaing
Wine and Spirit Merchants.*—GATTELL 4 CO.,
Sole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Am
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
*rt*« wore
I®*
Copyrighted.
liOBSUCSE and WHISSZSS.
k Boyd’t Beard EUxir did this, and
[ toill da 4$ on either bald head or
bare face. forces heavy Mone-
tae he in from 8 to 4 weeks and never
/ail*, 20,000 young men already
wear full beard*, having used 1 to
•EFons *2*s.
Copyrighted,
Injury, easily applied? lertaiit in effect. Packets 1». 64.
each. 3 for B*. 6 4., post paid, lent under cover, free from observation .
fAddreu, fr»nk DodgUs, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W’
P. KIBBT.
From the late Mr. Jahm Omnia, 9
TTaa.derta.lcer,
■4 HUNTS IS * PHILLIP ITKEKTS.
FUNHBALS NMATLY MXHCUTHD.
N,8.-Mr. Kirby was to the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16)
Manager for over ten (IQ) years.
years;
Awarded Three
Prize Medals
dfghdfgdfg
h 5»
Wor
A. B.
Importer and Manufacturer
HIGH ART FURN |T
(J(l*
AND
Appointment 2 *^/
Irasi, Iron, and Mickle-plated
WoveD, Wire, and other Mattr* 8
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster,
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Do o * sl
Services, Chamber Ware.
Kitchen Requisites, &e.,
The Only Address'
365 and 365 a Pitt'* 1
BETWEEN
Liver; ool and Bathurst &
SYDNEY-
AWARDED THREE PRlZfi * j
FOR DURABILITY*
B. ROWLA.»mS,
late ROWLANDS & LEWIS, *
Manufacturer of all kinds of A rated Waters, Cordials, and Blttsrs, and Proprietor of Vlgorl"*'
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. J
Calcutta Exhibition awarotd the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; alee, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitt«*' * J
