

THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 —No. 162 New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNR 19, 1886.
Fsrioe—6d.
The State and its Criminals
The Bulle
SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1886.
as a place for the incarceration of his body,
Mr. Maclean observes that “ a large pro-
portion of habitual criminals are, so more
from an utter want of the power of self-
control in resisting temptation, than from
premeditated intention.” To raise the
prisoner morally, not to degrade him physi-
cally, becomes then the primary purpose of
enlightened discipline.
* • *
It is not to be judged that we want crimi-
nals to be kept with their arms folded in
idleness while their minds feast on succulent
maxims of wisdom and virtue. Work is the
straightest road to goodness. Let work,
then, and hard work, be the criminal’s por-
tion. But the work must be rational, and
be performed in an atmosphere of reason.
Take one of that class of criminals, of whom
Mb. Harold Maclban’s Report on the Pri-
sons of New South Wales for the year 1885
does not encourage the reader to believe
that the colony is making material progress
towards an enlightened, method of dealing
with criminals. New South Wales is not,
we think, much worse than the rest of Aus-
tralia in this respect. Inspector-General
Brett, of Victoria, uses language regarding
the establishments under his control not un-
like that used by Mr. Maclban. The
latter’s is, however, more explicit, and be-
tween the sentiments it awakens and the
leading principles of the present and late
Governments in New South Wales the con-
trast seems stronger than we find existing
elsewhere between the two classes of sub-
jects. The gaol system in vogue is fairly
able to keep prisoners shut in. It secures
an uncertain measure of work, and an un-
certain measure of pain. Under it a criminal
may die, go mad, or sink to a darker depth
of vice. For each of these ends there is a
means at hand within the prison walls. But
if he lives to come out there is little hope
that he will come out better, and much
likelihood that he will be found a much
greater curse than before he went in.
» « «
It is recognised that the mere keeping of a
man from evil is a poor conception of the
State’s duty. If the organ of evil were to
decay, or the spirit of lawlessness to wear
out during the period of captivity, the mere
imprisonment might avail something. But
incapacity to execute is no bar to devising.
Crime resides in thg will, and the will can-
not be chained. Hence there exists the need
for directing disQipline to the moral con-
sciousness of the prisoner with more pres-
sure and persistence than to his physical
nature. His physical nature is, it is true, a
medium through which be may be made to
obey commands. It is possible to flog a
man to good things and away from bad.
But what he does under the lash is, mora'ly,
neither good nor bad. It is a deed or an
omission for which, in the court of con-
science, he is irresponsible. If his will be
evil, locking him up keeps him from giving
it effect. Sending him to break stores and
feeding him on bread and water infuse into
him a sentiment of fear. But they do not
destroy the evil. The looking-up ends some
day, and when it does the man stands be-
tween anticipated gratifications and ap-
prehended punishments. The first are
expeotatiors of pleasures, the others
remembrances of pains. If there be
a dotibt as *to which his judgment
will choose, io frequency with which
criminals retunVto prison will serve as a
guide. Further, an attempt to make a man
morally better by the physical means men-
tioned, if these, and such as these, be the
main influences employed, must be not
alone futile as to the purpose in view, but,
in all reasonable likelihood, destructive of
any natural chance there might be of at-
taining that purpose. A man who has been
tortured into the acceptance or acknowledg-
ment of any principle will afterwards
recognise that principle in companionship
with the torture. That is why persecutions,
political or religious, fail in theT objects.
It is the recognition of this fact that makes
the public mind in many countries so un-
easy as it is to-day, and that of Australia
touched as it is, on this subject of prison
discipline. The prison, it is being felt, must
come to bo an hospital for the treatment of
the moral nature of the criminal as much
MR. J. B. OLIFFE, M.L.A.
Mr. Maclean specially speaks. He is sent into
solitary confinement, probably Hogged, and
then put on a treadmill—Mr. Brett ex-
presses himself as being specially partial to
this form of labour. In the solitary confine-
ment the prisoner loses some of his small
stock of sense ; under the lash he parts with
a portion of whatever manly feeling sur-
vived in him; and trom the treadmill ho
carries away the conviction that labour is a
degrading—and for all purposes of human
usefulness—a wanton curse. A chaplain
may fire a formal prayer into his ears, but
it does not reach so near or sink so deeply
as the unbroken silence of the cell, the
whirr of the tongue of the crimson lash, or
the senseless torture of the useless wheel.
When that prisoner emerges from gaol,
what will he do? What has he been
taught to do? Physically and mentally
he is worse than, and industrially he is as
bad as, when he went in. The likely issue is
grave. In the latest case of concerted law-
breaking on a large scale—the attempt to
rob under arms the Simpson’s Road Bank in
a suburb of Melbourne—the parties were all
gaol-birds. One had erved a term for house-
breaking, another had undergone a sentence
of 10 years for criminal assault, another had
been in prison for larceny, another for hav-
ing received stolen goods, and the last of the
gang of five had against him a long record
of varied criminality. The man who had
fulfilled the sentence of 10 years re-entered
Pen fridge without any classification as to
occupation or trade. Work, we say, orimi-
nals must. But the work should be of a
kind that wins a man an honest living out-
side prison walls. The crank, the
the shot-drill, and the other unproductive
and purely afflictive punishment thatshort-
ighted disciplinarians have devised, must
be swept away.
* * *
The administrator of the New South
Wales prison laws is not to be blamed for
the evils of the system. His annual reports
show that he is alive to the necessity of
alterations being made. In that now to
hand he reiterates old recommendations. He
urges the Government to stop what is in
effect the State manufacture of criminals.
He pleads for a right to change the condi-
tions that “ produce the action and reaction
upon the minds of criminals of evil tenden-
cies, the discouragement of a disposition to
reform, and the incitement to future wrong-
doing.’' These applications are persistently-
ignored. The change from the bad to the
good methods of treating criminals would,
it is alleged, involve expense. The succes-
sive Governments of New South Wales have
not been parsimonious where the spurious
glory of an Administration or the personal
vanity of members was concerned. Hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds were laid
down for the slaughter of a race that never
did us harm, whose shadow never fell across
the path of our existence, whose language
we did not know, and whose laws we did
not understand, but whose misfortune it
was at the time to be under the heel of a
Power for whose approving smile our flun-
keys sighed. A less sum than was offered,
up to send political murderers to the Soudan
would save many a brain from the mad-
house, many a back from the triangles, and
many a neck from the gallows in New South
Wales. There is pathos in this sentence
from Mr. Maclean’s report:— “l do not
desire to say that my representations on
this head have been disregarded, but I may
be permitted to observe that a preference
has been given to other structures, such as
superior court-houses and the like, more in
accordance with the natural taste and desire
of the community, without perception of
the more primary object of criminal treat-
ment tending to the diminution of crime.”
There is more than pathos in the paragraph.
There are in it an incitement for the public
and a justification for the historian to brand
our butchering statesmen with the infamy
of culpable ignorance and the crime of
callous indifference.
• ■ ■
But the notion that expense is raved by
the present practice is only true at most in the
sense that it is postponed. While the mem-
bers of the Government are paying artists
and writers to glorify their physiognomies
and exploits; while they are voting to put
busts of one another in the market-squares?
picture-galleries, and council-halls; while
out of the public funds, they are furnishing
yachts and schooners and railway carriages
for “aristocratic ” visitors from whom they
hope, when their wallets are full and they
sail to northern lands, to receive some social
recognition in return, men and women in
our gaols and prisons are, for want of a
better system of treatment, losing more and
more of the life of their moral nature, are
becoming weaker and viler, and are grow-
ing less and less able to walk virtuously or
intelligently when the prison gate opens
and lets them out. When they come out,
however, the Nemesis that dogs iniquity
will be awake. This feeble-willtd tribe will
fling on the world a feeble--willed brood.
They themselves will keep going back to
the high-walled yards, until in the end the
whip whizzes, the bell clangs, and the rope
is pulled. This generation of wrecks then
ends, having learned nothing of the
purposes of life, of its duties and joys, of the
love that might have illumined it or the
hope that might have shone over it. “ There
is,” says Mr. Maclean, “a large number of
persons to whom constitutionally it is
utterly impossible to be other than crimi-
nals.” But the money we save by letting
these drift, or driving them, till they are
utterly incurable, will be called for in the
future with heavy interest added. Letting
the account of the dead criminals stand,
what estimate can we make of the State re-
sources that will be consumed by the brood
of each moral weakling ? And by the brood
of these broods ? There are individuals in
gaol to-day whose ancestors were in gaol a
hundred years ago. Those whom Mr. Mac-
lean now speaks of as constitutional crimi-
nals are most, if not all, of them descendants


of people in whom a criminal strain was
nourished by bad prison laws. Instead of
being drawn off by wise State discipline, the
strain was thickened by a system founded m
ignorance, brutality, and revenge, and was
passed on from parent to offspring in ever-
increasing fulness and foulness, until to-day
it dominates the whole existence. There are
to-day in a gaol in New York six descend-
ants of one criminal family, whose criminal
career dates one hundred years back. It
has been found by an expert that in
the century this family has contributed
709 names to the criminal records of their
country, and it is calculated that the
tribe have cost the State £300,000 in direct
taxation. Perhaps the Comptroller-General
of the prisons in which the founders of that
family were placed asked his Government,
as Mr. Maclean now does his, for means to
treat unfortunates in a way that would
help their moral nature to rise. Perhaps,
too, the Ministers of the time, having squan-
dered the public funds in getting likenesses
of themselves for presentation at foreign
Courts, in getting narratives written in
which their doughty deeds were made to
appear the only heroic performances of the
epoch, and in a general mountebank and
charlatanic endeavour to look meteoric
existences in the eyes of distant peoples,
told the Comptroller-General that they
could not spare funds for his humanising
experiments. Most likely, however, neither
the Comptroller-General nor the State of
that day resembled ours. The point to note
is that one neglected family stands there
now, with an account for £300,000, and that
only representing cash to date, in its hands
against the incompetenoy of those who
knew how to imprison but not how to
improve.
• • •
Mr. Maclean is not only refused what he
asks, but even in his management of the
present system he is interfered with by the
disciplinary quackery of others. Every
judge has a hobby as to what to do with a
culprit. One relies on solitary confinement,
another on the lash, another on a haphazard
mixture of the two, and still another on
neither. There is no one to control these.
A prisoner, without any skilled investiga-
tion into his antecedents, is sent into soli-
tary confinement. For 23 hours out of 24 he
is locked up by himself in a cell. For the
remaining hour he exercises in a narrow
yard, with a canvas mask over his head.
On a tower in the centre of the yard stands
a warder with his rifle. There are oases in
which a term of this discipline might do
good. But there is no competent authority
to determine the case or the term. Inspec-
tor-General Brett admits that intellects
that enter sound may not come out so, and
that, as the system is managed, latent or
hereditary symptoms of insanity are likely
to be developed. Experiments made in
Pentridge on 107 men in solitary confine-
ment showed that in body they suffered an
average loss in weight of lllb. 7oz. in 18
days„or over lOoz. per man per day. When
a man comes out of this confinement he gets
beef-tea stimulants. When he is taken
down from the triangles he is given brandy.
Thus the benevolence of gaol quackery
succeeds the inconsiderateness of judicial
quackery. But the criminal is the victim,
and the Comptroller-General is obliged to
stand idly by and let the twofold system of
quackery go on.
There are parts of the world in which
Legislatures make well-studied efforts to
better this sorry and sorrowful condition of
things. England has experts at work, and
one after another improvements are being
effected in the manner of dealing with the
moral consciousness of criminals. The car-
dinal principle these experts enforce is the
demonstration to the criminal that the
existence of his moral being is acknow-
ledged. They disabuse him of the feeling
that ho is a brute, fit only to be gyved,
whipped, and hanged. Mr. Howard Vin-
cent told us recently of the success of the
surveillance system. In the vast hive of
London, men whom wo would have on the
triangles or picking oakum go through their
business at home under the eye of the
police. In Massachusetts the probationary
system is now complete. During the last
five years 2561 offenders—including 83 shop-
breakers and 35 embezzlers—were allowed
to pursue their legitimate avocations with-
out entering a prison. Belgium is a reper-
tory of scientific eadeavours to raise the
treatment of crime from the level of the
ancient barbarian and the modern quack to
the platform of civilised citizenship and
enlightened morality. Is New. South Wales
to stay for ever asleep ? Have we no mem-
ber in our House of Assembly to lay this
last report of the Comptroller-General of
Prisons on the table, and demand either
that the claims it makes be complied with,
or that copies of the new rules for prison
discipline in the countries of Europe and
America be provided to meet the concern of
those who dread that the State is manufac-
turing criminals ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Tit’e-Grab.
WilliAM Bundby, Esq., Mayor of Adelaide,
sends us a big circular penned in fervidly loyal
style, and dated from the “Mayor’s Parlour,
Town Hall, Adelaide,” asking us to use our in-
fluence and skirmish around to worry up enthu-
siasm in connection with the proposed visit of the
Prince of Wales to Australia. You have sent your
circular to the wrong mark, William. Our
tongue yearns not for a chance of licking royal
boots; our mind is not bursting for an oppor-
tunity of deifying a fat, stupid little German man
who happens to have been a prince; we do not
wish, William, to exalt ourselves by toadying to
a bigger snob than any we have hitherto seen in
Australia; and, lastly, William, we would not.
accept a knighthood if you brought it to us on a
charger. If Wales comes he will bring a boxful
of knighthoods, C.M.G.-ships, and general appro-
bation for distribution among his entertainers.
There will be royal jam for prominent citizens,
C.M.G.-ships for secretaries of reception and ban-
quet committees, and knighthoods for members
of Parliament and metropolitan mayors. You,
Bundby, will probably be one of the latter, and
we really don’t see that we should agitate our-
selves in order that you and others may secure
handles to your Ignoble names. Yours may be
sincere loyalty, but we are not a bit agitated that
way.
Concerts and Ckavclies and Charity. 1
All the world does not know, perhaps, that wo
have forged so far ahead in Sydney as to have at
least two first-class concerts every Sunday night.
It is true, however, just as it is true that five
years back Sir Henry Parses shut the doors of
the Theatre Royal on Richard A. Proctor's
proposed Sunday lecture. You can go to the
Opera House on Sunday evening now, and you
will have to pay two shillings. But you will get
two shillings’ worth. Four to six good songs,
two to four orchestral selections, and a couple
of really good bouts on the fiddle. It is
not so exciting as Larrt Foley’s, perhaps,
not so wicked either, but the queer point is that it
seems to contain more of the spirit of genuine
charity than any gathering of professed Christians.
The first meeting now in aid of the Ly-ee-Moon
Fund, with the Rev. W. Poole on show in the Bap-
tist chapel, and 1000 in the audience, yielded £33.
No charge for admission either. Same night St.
Andrew’s Cathedral made up £34. Last Sunday
night St. Andrew’s, with 3000 present, the Governor
and Lord knows how many commanders-in-chief,
admirals, chief clerks, head flunkeys, and snobs,
amongst them, with all the secretaries of
the fund drumming through the streets for
days in advance, put up £64 and some shillings.
And what did the sinners? Well, after the fliddle
and the horn, and the pleasant little passage of
of sweet Balfe music, Mr. Teecb, with a face that is
not just like a spring morning for beauty, came
forward and smote upon his breast, saying, “We
be all miserable sinners, sadly in need of a cloak
for our iniquities. Can’t we stretch forth our
hands now, and get a grip of this garment of
charity which seems to cling so loosely to all
churchmen? See here, I have not a silver salver
or a silk bag, but a cigar-box, in itself an
emblem of the world, we have screwed the
lid on firm so that there shall be no juggling. We
have made a slit big enough for a crown and small
enough for a half-sovereign. We don’t suppose
there are any threepennies here, but chuck \ m
in with the rest, if there are they will all make
up. Go, little box, now go out from the sinners
to the sinners I” And the little box went and
came back with £37 odd. There were not more
than 700 present. They had paid two shillings or
one at the door, and yet they stumped up
as much within £6 as did the 3000 Cathe-
dral folks on the first appeal. And the
Cathedral folks had the Norman towers and
the gothic aisle and the organ and the bishop and
the reader and the choir all given in. What shall
we do ?—quote the old saying, “ By their fruits ye
shall know them?” Shouldn’t care to, because
next week some pertinacious rascal might crop
up and say, "Well, and what about Larry
Foley’s ‘push’ and the Y.M.C.A.?” If Jack
Thompson will send Pablo Frank round with a
Ly-ee-Moon hat next Saturday night he may lay
any odds that he will show better results than the
young Christians will on the following Sunday.
♦
The Earthquakes.
God Almighty ;is a great showman, said a Drury-
lane manager, as he watched the great fire-play of
Vesuvius. "Bnoeledaus struggles,” said the
Greek as he felt the world heave, and saw the
surge of the fire ocean of the mid-world break
over the mountain top. The dead chiefs are all
rising, says the terror-stricken Maori. The taboo
is broken at last, ’tis the end of all things. And
the thoughtful civilised whiteman who is privi-
leged to see Tarawera explode, wires over “ It is
a scene of awful sublimity, almost to be compared
with Martin’s ‘Last Judgment.’” He is the
meanest of all, this modern whiteman, with his
poor conventional idea and comparison with a
commonplace picture. He should have been
asleep in his well ordered bed, and not out in the
night with those marvels. What manner of mar-
vels? You must know a little of the country be-
fore you can understand them. You must think
of that great flaw or vent of the world stretch-
ing from White Island, in the Bay of Plenty
to Egmont, the great cone of the Austral world,
on the West Coast. Two hundred and fifty miles
of this world’s crust. A series of cracks and flaws
in the cooling sphere where heat still escapes.
Here, just enough to warm surface pools of lake
water, there firing boiling geyser columns through
narrow vents. Over many and many a square
mile, escaping in jet of steam and through the
tremendous cones of Egmont and Tongariro,
giving out the lessening heat in steady continuous
volume. Tarawera, a rook mass, most solid seem-
ing of all the hills, and chosen, therefore, by the
Arawas, the noblest, fiercest,; best of all the
Maoris, as a burial place for their dead. It was
holy ground the summit of Tarawera. Many a
generation of dead chiefs slept there, and if their
ghosts should come forth and look upon the world
once more, they must not be seen of any mortal
eye. The penalty of intrusion on Tarawera was,
in the old days, death. Below the graves were the
great lakes, the rosy or the snow-white beauties
of the terraces, the geysers, and the forests, where
the moa might still have lingered unmolested and
unseen. All the old human interest was grown
corrupt and mean, and the beginnings of the white
civilisation were not remarkable for any grandeur
or sincerity. Did some strange, dimly-conscious
powers of the Netherworld discern the meanness
of all the human life ? Did they move in anger or
contempt to shake it away ? Man made a little
lower than thelangels must, in his present condi-
tion, appear very contemptible to them. Who
knows ? The powers of the great deep stirred, that
is all; and with a roar as of all the waves of ocean,
stirred by a blast in which north and south winds
had met, and hurled upon some such cliff as the
hard face of Himalayas or Andes would afford,
they struck the mountain base and its whole bulk
was upheaved, and through its parted summit the
smoke, and the flame, and the spume of the very
sea rushed out to the sky and overshadowed all
the world. A marvellous canopy of terrible
blackness. Yes, the gods of the interstellar spaces
and the gods of the world's great heart met, and
the poor humanity camped on the temporary
earth-crust was no more than the midges in the
sand to the advancing surf of a storm-fretted
tide. Where are the dead Maories so carefully
sepulchred there ? Where that poor brown guide
who went down through the chasm ? God save
us, parsons I Yes; we need to cling to the skirts
of some God when powers like these begin to
play. We realise what small thing in space will
all the works of men be when in the possible
climax of the Helmholtz hypothesis this poor
midge of a world adds its modicum of fuel to the
great fire of the sun, and still the systems devolve
and the great face of the universe shows scarcely
a sign of change.
4
The “Argus” Howls.
The Argus commands a certain admiration for
the consistent audacity with which it ascribes all
human woes to the wickedness of the working
classes. Black ruin, according to our “leading
journal,” is the inevitable outcome of any revolt
against the benevolent despotism of Capital. An
instructive case in point, we now blush to dis-
cover, was the wreck of the Ly-ee-moon. The
Argus has traced that calamity to its hitherto un-
suspected source—the seamen’s strike. With
unassailable logic it points out that “owners of
steam vessels will, perhaps, reply that all sorts of
charges and expenses are heaped upon them in
this port; that they have to deal with seamens’
unions and lumpers’ unions, and to bear all sorts
of exactions which tempt them to try to save fuel,
time, and expenses. This may partly explain some
of the circumstances of the wreck, such as the
anxiety to cut off corners and hug the shores.
But it will not excuse gross neglect when human
lives are at stake.” All honour to the Argus for
that last sentence. Even a stern sense of duty to
shipowners does not blind its journalistic eye to
the fact that lumpers’ unions are not altogether
responsible for reckless navigation of vessels. No,
the blood of the unfortunates who went down with
the Ly-ee-moon is only partly on the heads of the
wretches who recently agitated for an extra two-
pence per hour. Still the Argus leader teaches a
lesson which the working classes should take seri-
ously to heart. The ship Ly-ee-Moon would never
have struck on the Green Cape rock if the men
who loaded it hadn’t previously “struck” on the
Melbourne wharf. Sad, sad reflection. The
lumpers’ gain was the Ly-ee-Moon’s loss. We
would recommend shipowners to distribute the
Argus leader, in pamphlet form, among their
employees. It might bo illustrated with advan-
tage. One pair of pictures might pourtray the
“ Blessing of Starvation Wages a igroup of lean
and hungry looking lumpers on the wharf, and a
ship sailing gallantly along ever so many miles
from the shore. The other pair of pictures might
illustrate “ The Curse of the extra
fat and saucy-looklng lumpers on the wharf, and
the aforementioned ship steering slap on to some
rocks in the vain endeavour to cut off corners.
The whole to be bound in a neatly illuminated
cover, inscribed with the shipowning text—"Go,
and strike no more.”
+
Pact, and Sydney D.T. Fact.
The “ epileptic fury” of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph on the New Hebrides question has burled
the head of that journalistic hysteric inches deep
in the mud again. The first of the excerpts
printed below is taken from an editorial column
of lugubrious lamentations on the probable sei-
zure of the group, and the second is [a cablegram
which appeared in the same issue
Leader.
"We may be fully as-
sured that if every Aus-
tralian colony had a
Premier as resolute as
Mr. Gillies in the de-
fence of Australian in-
terests, there would be
no danger of encroach-
ments in our seas from
France or any other
power.”
Cablegram.
“ Nobody is surprised
at the French action, es-
pecially after the intem-
perate telegrams on the
subject from Mr. Gil-
lies, Premier of Victo-
ria, which were pub-
lished here.”
So sweet a contrast requires no further comment.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
Foley's Athletic Hall must have held on
Saturday night fully 1500 people, when Manning
and Snow commenced the opening bout. Fogarty
and M'Carty were billed to fight to a finish, but
after 19 rounds, occupying one hour and a-quarter,
had been boxed, with honours divided, it was do-
elded to make the affair a draw, as otherwise it
would have been too late to bring off the six-
round encounter between the champion amateur
and Pablo Frank. The amateur was giving away
lumps of avoirdupois and condition, and the task
he allotted himself, the “ knocklng-out ” of Pablo
in six rounds, proved too heavy a job to get
through with, as the herculean professional is just
now in tip-top "kip” in anticipation of his match
with Tom Taylor, Jackson’s protegi. The amateur,
when so inclined, got on to Pablo very heavily, in
the third round landing five heavy blows with
both hands with lightning-like rapidity, but he did
not escape scatheless, as Pablo hit him a couple of
hard knocks, one in the sixth round taking him off
his feet. The evening’s entertainment was really
good, and perhaps the best yet brought off at the
popular temple of the noble art.
* * *
Jack Hall’s boxing match with Charles
Dunn came off at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle,
on Saturday, and resulted in an unsatisfactory
win for Dunn on a foul blow. Hall appears to
have had the best of the fight all through, but
in the fifth round the referee, a bookmaker,
warned Hall for an alleged blow below the belt.
In the sixth round the referee again stopped the
fight, and amidst a running fire of inslnuatory
queries, the men re-commenced work. In the
seventh round the referee again alleged that
Hall had struck a foul blow, and declared Dunn
the winner.
* * *
The Sydney D.T. has all through the
chapter cut Tattersall’s Club up over the post-
ponement of their meeting last Saturday week,
even in the face of the club's explanation that a
serious accident might have occurred In the jump-
ing-horses taking off from the sloppy ground.
All honour say we to the committee who had a
thought for the poor devils who risk their neck
in the “sport of kings,” even though, to quote
from Monday’s D.T, “many prominent sporting
men who would have been present had the original
fixture been adhered to, or come off at a reason-
able time, were absent.” Raven started favourite
for the National Hurdle race, but he was
unable to obtain a place, the winner turn-
ing up in Veronique, who won by a neck
from Happy Thought. Keith made an easy win of
the Flying Handicap from Newminster; and
Ellington carried off the Selling Race from
Leumeah. Studley made rather an easy win of
the Grand National Steeplechase from Blaokall;
and Dunlop and Corday, first and second favourites
for the Winter Stakes, finished in the order named,
Bravo three-quarters of a length away third.
V V *
A dreary fixture was the Balmain and
Burwood Bicycle Clubs’ races on Sydney Associa-
tion Ground last Saturday, the only race which
raised the slightest enthusiasm being the three-
mile handicap, which was carried off by E. C.
8. Chapman (400 yds.), after a fine finish with W.
H. Ballard (335 yds.) Foulkes, as was anticipated,
made a one-horse show of the five miles’ cham-
pionship, winning as he pleased from Ballard in
19min. 15seo,
* * *
In the St. Ignatius regatta last Saturday,
which must have been blessed by the Pope, the
weather was so lovely, Brett disappointed his fel-
low clubmen in the Senior Scull race, and Gerald
Kennedy deserves more praise than he got from
the daily press for his defeat of the amateur cham-
pion. One paper says Brett was not in condition,
and another says the Mercantile skiff is the slowest
of the boats, but be that as it may, the fact re-
mains that the winner turned up in Kennedy, who
should receive all credit for winning his first
senior single sculls against such a field. The Sun-
day Times said Kennedy is over 6ft. high, and an
intercolonial-eight man. We doubt if the Ken-
neday who rowed on Saturday is over sft. 91n. in
height, and it is scarcely necessary to tell our
'•“aders he never rowed in an intercolonial, and
t _.at the description given fits not him but his big
brother. For the All Schools Fours, the local
crew ;were a fine lot of lads, but they were
not at home in their new Donnelly, and
finished a long way behind the Grammar
School four. In the Junior Double Sculls, the
Sydney R C. was only a “jury crew,” as Tiley had,
at the last moment, to take the place of De Gyulay,
who was unable to row. They made a good race of
it, the M.R.C. pair, Robertson and Kemp, having
to put their best leg foremost to secure a victory.
Thei Woolloomooloo Rowing Club maiden four
pulled in remarkably good form, and scored the
maiden victory for the young club from N. 8.,
M.R.C. and Balmain clubs. The college lads were
enthusiastic, if not scientific, in their pulling, and
altogether a lively afternoon was put in.
♦ * *
Bravo! amateur sport. We notice the
paid secretary of the Association Ground is also
hon. secretary of the Bicycle Union and assistant
hon. secretary of the Suburbans. How in thunder
the bicyclists reconcile this bit of business is be-
yond us, but while the union is run by men who
make their living out of the sale and repair of
bicycles it may be imagined a reform Is not im-
minent. By the way, as we pointed out last week,
it is now a case of one down t’other come on.
Bennett and Wood, on the previous Saturday, ad-
vertised their machines as the winners of all the
big races, but last Saturday it was the turn of
Mr. Markins (president of the Bicycle Union), and
he made the most of the opportunity by inform-
ing the public that the bicycles are the most
successful on the track as ridden by —, and the
leading Melbourne men, at suburban and Balmain
and Burwood sports, and holds one and ten-mile
Victorian championships and others.” We won’t
charge anything for ad. this time.
* * *
On Saturday, the football match between
the Wallaroo and Burwood clubs, for the Gardiner
Cup, proved an unusually fast and well-fought
game, resulting in a draw, each side obtaining two
points. The Balmains and Gordons also played
a draw, neither side scoring; and the Rosedales
succeeded in defeating the Redferns by 4 points
to nil. The Redferns, however, are not the power-
ful club of last season, many of its best players
having seceded to .the newly-formed Gordons.
The Association players were also hard at it, the
West Sydney defeating the Waratahs by 3 goals 6
behinds to 1 goal 4 behinds. And the Northum-
berland Club, of Maitland, put the City Club, of
Newcastle, through their facings by 3 goals 6
behinds to 2 goals 12 behinds.
* * *
It is stated that Harvard University will
send over a four-oared crew to England this sum-
mer to knock the stuffing out of the Oxford and
Cambridge men. The experiment was tried some
16 or 17 years ago, when the Oxford v. Harvard
match drew the biggest crowd ever assembled on
the banks of the Thames. On that occasion Ox-
ford won with consummate ease at the finish, but
the crew was an exceptionally good one. Tinno,
one of the Oxford men, scaled something like 13st.
101 b.
* * *
The Melbourne Junior Football Associa-
tion has passed a mischievous resolution to the
effect that “ all decisions of umpires are subject to
the ruling of the Association.” A plentiful crop
of appeals must be the inevitable result of this
action, and the men who undertake the unthank-
ful task of adjudicating as to “ free-kicks,” &0.,
will be robbed of all the virtue hitherto appertain-
ing to their office. The Dictionary definition of
umpire is “ a sole arbitrator in disputes.” There-
fore, as the Association takes upon Itself the
duties of umpire, the only thing it can do, with
any show of reason, is to appoint its own mouth-
pieces for each match. Goal umpires (the parties
complained of) must be authorised servants of the
Association, standing in the same position as does
a judge to the racing-club which employs him. To
describe a man, whose decisions are subject to
overruling, as an umpire, is an unintentional joke
worthy of a football association. But as this is a
“junior” crowd its youthful indiscretion may be
overlooked.
* « *
Old Jem Mace offers to wager £2OO that
Jem Smith, the English champion, cannot beat
him in a four-round contest under Marquis of
Queensberry rules.
♦ * *
One of the prominent supporters of
N.S.W. cricket has laid a very heavy wager that
“ our Sammy ” beats “ Tup ” Scott in the batting
averages on the English tour of the M.O.C. Aus-
tralian eleven.
* * *
At the Moonee Valley (Vie.) coursing
meeting a man named M‘Kenzle was fined £2 and
warned off the ground for 13 months for contempt
pf court. He publicly impugned one of the
judge’s decisions.
♦ * *
The recent trip of the N.S.W. football
team to Victoria was hugely successful—from a
plonicky pointfof view. The old adage about get-
ting more kicks than ha’pence might well be re-
versed in their case. The work they put in after
dusk was something phenomenal. At each of the
theatres in turn a performance was given “ under
the patronage of the N.S.W. team.” A burlesque
entertainment at St. George’s Hall was especially
graced by their manly presences. Divers feeds at
sundry places were also under the same dis-
tinguished patronage. At length the demon dys-
pepsia began to do its deadly work. From a com-
plimentary banquet at Clement’s caf«S, Messrs.
Goer and Balhausen were “absent through sick-
ness.” When the match against Geelong came off,
the whole team might have been absent through
sickness without much affecting the issue. N.S. w.
scored 2 behinds to 14 goals 17.
• » •
The crushing defeat of the “Gentlemen of
England” at Lord’s reminds us that the day of
amateur superiority in cricket (the only snort in
which amateurs ever did excel) is past. While W.
G. Grace was at hts best the annual English
matches, “ Gentlemen v. Players,” were won by
the former with scarcely an exception. But dur-
ing the past two or three seasons the position has
been reversed and the Players have reasserted
themselves. This bloodless revolution must not
be entirely attributed to the waning of W. G.’s
phenomenal powers. Ten years back the fielding
of the pros., was loose and slovenly compared with
the amateur article, but the periodical visits of
the Australians seems to have aroused them to a
sense of the importance of saving runs, as well as
making them. The fielding of Shaw and Shrews-
bury’s team while they played here last summer
was almost unsurpassable. The Australians, in
thorough working order,can certainly do no better.
Another cause for the decline of the amateurs,
is the fact that few of them appear to follow the
game with the same devotion as of yore, and when
certain men, on account of past performances, are
called upon to take part in big matches, they are,
as frequently as not, out of practice. The poor
shows made by Mr. W. W. Read recently, prove
him to be out of form. The same remark applies
to Lord Harris and others, and it is significant that
Mr. G. F. Vernon—never a brilliant player—dil
most service for the Gentlemen the other day.
This is not mentioned in depreciation of Our
Boys’ victory, but it is well to bear in mind that a
triumph over the G. of B. is not the big thing it
would have been a few years ago. Nor are we
forgetting that the fourth Australian Eleven dis-
posed of the Players with ease, but it will probably
be found that Barnes, Shrewsbury, and Co. will be
more difficult nuts to crack than in 1884. By the
way, the ranks of the professionals have been
strengthened by two important deserters from the
enemy. Gilbert, of Gloucestershire, and E. J.
Diver, of Surrey, will henceforth play without the
distinguishing “ Mr.” in front of their names.
• o ■
Evidently the English three-year-olds of
this season are a pretty smart lot. Minting, who
ran second to Ormond in the Two Thousand
Guineas, and was beaten out of a place for the
Derby, proved quite good enough to win the
Grand Prix de Paris, with its £4OOO added. The
victories of perfidious Albion are never very well
received in France, and it la just on the cards that
the monsieurs cut up rough this time, after the
resolution passedjby tne Jockey Club placing cer-
tain restrictions on French horses entered for
English handicaps.
* * *
The lesson of the last Caulfield Cup has
not been forgotten by owners. The entries for
1886 show a falling off of 40 as compared with the
three previous years. Entries for the Derby and
Cup meeting at Flemington are smaller all round
than last year.
• ♦ *
The N.S.W. and Queensland footballers
meet on the Sydney Association Ground on Satur-
day (Australian game). Rumour hath it that the
Bananalanders are this time very weak, and if this
be so the Nu-So’-Wales may prevail.
* ♦ *
Ne sutor ultra During the
recent libel-case of Lee v. &,’> qui, Mr. Barrister
Isaacs (who knows more about Coke upon Black-
stone than he does about Rous on the turf), in his
address to the jury, nearly sent his audience into
kicking fits by declaring that “at the time Mr.
Saqui laid the wager to Mr. Lee the ‘ weights ’ for
the .Derby were just out, and Neustadt was a
warm favourite.” Now we know why poor Saqui
dropped his shekels. A handicap Derby I Shade
of the mighty Nimrod protect us I
* * *
At Warrnambool (Vic.), race-meeting a
policeman put his little bit of silver on with a
wicked welsher. Robert’s horse won and the
wslsher made preparations for taking a gallop
down the course all by himself. But Robert—
Michael Heaver was hla name—was equal to the
emergency. Failing the getting of his wager he
ran the wicked one in for obtaining money under
false pretences. The moral of this la—don’t bet
with policemen. If Robert had backed a stiff ’un
he would possibly have run his man in all the
same, from a sense of duty, or something like
that.
* * ♦
Jack Dempsey, of America, is probably
the best middle-weight pugilist alive* He has an
unbeaten record of 88 battles.


t
The New Inquisition.
MR. JOHN DAVIES, C.M.G., M.L.A. "OBJECTS TO THE PROPOSED N.S.W. INCOME-TAX ON THE GROUND THAT IT "WOULD BE OF AN INQUISITORIAL CHARACTER.”


Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
Marie Rrizardl
The public should be careful they are not
imposed upon with imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Personal
Items
It is being recognised, not only by the
legislators of Victoria but by the people of Aus-
tralasia, now that poor old Hugh M‘Coll was, not-
withstanding all the scorn and contumely heaped
upon him, a genuine benefactor to his country.
They are stepping into the prints he left in the
sands of time, and will apparently in the near
future do all the father of irrigation so often and
so vainly besought them to do. It would be worth
seeing if in the House at the head of Bourke-
street someone would materialise the spirit of the
short stout man, full of consciousness of purpose,
and set him gazing at the vapid gigglers who were
wont to show their commonsense by laughing him
down. Possibly the gaze would reveal no bitter-
ness, for Hugh cared more for the success of his
cause than for his own sense of dignity. But
anyway, it would be worth seeing.
Rev. Dr. Kelynaok, of Sydney, though he
went to Tasmania for a “ rest,” has been preach-
ing and lecturing much in Vandemonia. He
visited “ the Temple ” at Launceston, where Mr.
Guinness. M R C. 8., a young and beautiful enthu-
siast of 33 or 34 years, lately from England—who,
when he comes to Sydney, will simply paralyse
womankind—was lecturing on Guinness per 6 and
the East London Institute for “ Home and Foreign
Missions.” Dr. Kelynack didn’t think much of the
selections from Guinness pera's poetry with the
reiterated line, “A million a month in China,’ and
considered there was more poetry in “A thousand
a year in Sydney,” but he looked at and admired
the popular Evangelist who is doing the colonies
and reaping fame for himself and dollars for
papa. He had just swept up -only think of it I—
£soo at a drawing-room given by mamma-in-law
(since his arrival in Tasmania he has acquired a
rich ma-in-law, which is a way these young evan-
gelists have), and the collection at the lecture
amounted to £230. A young man in a few days to
be able to send the dad a draft for £730 to carry on
an Bast London Institute argued no mean ability,
and Dr. Kelynack looked at and admired his pro-
fessional brother.
The Kyneton Guardian points to the
careers of the Hon. P. Perkins, of Queensland,
and Sir Patrick Jennings, Premier of N.S.W., as
affording examples to colonial youths of the power
of thought, push, business talent, and honourable
The ex-Empress Eugenie was 60 on May 6.
It is thought in England she will leave most of her
money to Princess Beatrice.
The Sydney D.T., which lately accused
Mr. Creer, M.L.A., of “ being a Scotchman,” now
apologises and says he’s a Manxman. Insult added
to injury.
Lionel Tennyson, younger son of the lord
of that name who was formerly known as a poet,
has died of jungle-fever on board the Chusan, at
Aden, aged 33,
Lord St. Leonard’s togs are detained by a
Melbourne hotel-keeper because he refuses to pay
his bill. Is the British peerage to go naked?
Abigail, who is loyal, should at once see to this.
King Ludwig, of Bavaria, who at latest
was insane, under chloroform, in a strait-jacket,
and out of a billet, has never been himself since he
fixed his affections upon our old friend Lola
Montez.
Last Friday Lord Carington observed to a
gentleman, apropos of a variety of things, includ-
ing the Wreck-Belief Fund, that the wealthy
classes of Sydney really do seem to be intensely
mean people.”
Two years ago Peter Lalor, Speaker of the
Victorian Parliament, refused an offer of knight-
hood. The old hero of the Eureka fight would
have had to pay £3OO fees, and he says he didn t
think the bauble worth “ two centuries.”
Continental gossip about King Ludwig, of
Bavaria, who has now, it is cabled, been declared
insane and deposed, was tremendously renewed
hv the fact that he did not notice the recent pre-
S6nc6 of the Bmperor Franz Josef, of Austro-
Hungary, at Munich.
Mr. Wairr, ex-bagman and now hangman-
in-ordinary to the Government of Queensland, re-
ceives a salary of £llB a year. The lot of a Civil
servant is hardly a rosy one after all, and as the
hangman has not a seat in the Cabinet, he might
have done better to stick to his sample-case.
We read that “Colonel Spalding and
Lieutenant H. P. Airey, of the Contingent,
throughout the whole time they were absent from
NSW. in the Soudan, were at enmity. We want
to know how it is that two warnop who had no
nther ficbtincr to do, and were at enmity with
each other for four months right off, didn t have a
duel. The Australian military service has evi-
dently “ gong to the devil, sir.*
An ossified journalist named Sala, who
came out here to do the confidence-trick recently,
now says the Australians are a nation of gamblers
—the greediest and most sordid gamblers he ever
came across. This is the sort of man who would
die suddenly in some countries with a rush of lead
tn +hfi brain After all, when he was here we only
classed him* along with the champion fat woman
and the African sword-swallower, and he is hurt
at having found his level.
One fact which hasn’t been recalled by the
Australian papers which have of late written so
TTimsh about the great musician Liszt, is that at one
time he was the lover of George Sand—and of
TTotfvffn knows how many others. Liszt, from all
one rlads, & as if he at no time of his life can
y. avft been anything but ugly* The long, lanh
face with the wart on the cheek, so familiar to us
from pictures and photographs, is not so diabolic,
however, as it was: It has grown fuller and more
bourolois—yellow, too.” So says L’Evenement.
Mrs. Chapman, the wife of a New Zealand
missionary, who is still alive, witnessed some queer
among the Maoris 50 years ago. On several
occasions her little Maori scholars were taken
for a holiday by their loving parents,
on^ltthev 1 might share in the cannibal feasts
which were fashionable in Maoriland. When
the lady endeavoured to persuade them of the
her°MtemPt« to prevent them tatlDit the children
were unavailing.
Sir Claude de Orespigny, we read, has
•affISSSK St £#USriSi&S:
nfembers, \hlnkin g that a S«tieman ■ whoaotodM
fo? 8 inquiry ; but Sir Claude
f°r them, mat i justification, declaring
met the charge hlmsel£ Bome
day and Sat It Sas inconsistent with his sense of
dfitv to preside over a process he did not under-
“Oty t 0 explanation has now been accepted
hv the Club! andso this conscientious but daringly
unconventional baronet remains a member.
On rfiPfiivios th© congratulations of tbo
newlv-acquired title. Sir Robert
Kt Premier N.Z.! isreported by the local
S 2SitnhflTß been so agitated that he could not
ISKtSiSS fM feelings. Hech sirs; let's
whusaell—
What’s this we hear aboot ye, Babbie,
You that’s been aye sae gleg an gabble,
Nae wunner ye was sair pit oot—
It soons quite graund, “ Sir Kobert Stootl
The Northern Miner (Q.) has been brought
to a standstill for two days because the printing
was suffering from temporary Insanity.
Thadeus (TKaneVthe Iditor. has now come to the
Tanninflinn that the local mechanics are no good at
emergency, and announces that next time
IwJt.dnwn'takes place he will seek consolation
fnorayer. 0 He intends to get the Catholic prlestto
™JinVin the machine with holy water, and the
lalvation major to hold knee drill, and the Chinese
Tnss man to burn coloured lights, and the abori-
ginal wizard to do a war dance round the press,
and then he will handover the whole concern to
?hoTnrdand pay the clergymen by results. Ap-
parently the average Northern editor is a child of
wrftthi
a tale is eoing the rounds in Western Aus-
tria of an eminent J.P., who. after a convivial
woke up and found himself sitting on a
SSSf’inttSprincipal street of the town, while in
front of him was a table covered with “dead-
marines” of the previous evening. The only per-
tain sight was a policeman, who was trying hard
tenk as if he were present by mere accident, and
lo* “not noticed anything unusual. How the man
Sf law got lnto hia undignified position he has
never ascertained, but he just managed to reach
thJcourt in time to fine an unhappy drunk in the
Horn of five shillings, and then sought the seclusion
«?wiahiimble home, where he put on his other
foffr. and b rtapp“ared, clothed and in his right
mind once more.
The Princess Beatrice will, in due time,
raise the number of the Queen’s grandchildren to
30 There is one of her Majesty’s grandchildren
A 1“ i* at all likely to get more than the pro-
verbial shiUirig at the Queen’s death. This Is a
daughter of the late Princess Alice, a somewhat
self-willed lady, who married a Russian grand
duke a vear or two ago. She is fond of tittle-tattle,
aml has been giving to the world a somewhat
scandalous novel, in which ladies and gentlemen
illustrious position in northern courts
hive been Toughly served under thinly disguised
names ‘ Ary Ercllaw ”is the nom de plume under
which this Radical princess writes; and, not con-
tent with having set the Battenbergs by the eara-
Pattenpouffa she calls thom-she is said to have
another work upon tho stocks which will be more
scandalous still.
NEWSBOY(loq.): "SPARK A ‘COPPER,’ SIR?"
principle. The Guardian savs Mr. Perkins com-
menced his colonial career 30 years ago in the
humble position of barman at the Kyneton hotel.
And “30 years since Sir Patrick Jennings was a
storekeeper at Bt. Arnaud. He is now not only a
very wealthy man, but is one of those who has
a cultivated mind equal to his high position, and
is mindful of the duties and privileges which his
rank and influence confer upon him.” Regarding
Pat. Perkins, however, he can hardly be said to
have risen to any very dazzling elevation. He has
only advanced from selling other men’s beer to
selling his own; he is a big barman in place of a
little one; and he carries even now a black mark
on his ribs from the Scotch poke which Sir Thomas
M'llwraith gave him, when the pair called at an
obscure bush pub. for a glass of Perkins’bee r,
and were told by the grog-syndicate behind the
counter, who didn’t know and probably didn’t care
a rap for the illustrious visitors, that they didn’t
keep such stuff.” Moreover, his career does not
point a moral to the young, for the coming man in
Australia, when he imitates him by starting life
behind the bar, does not rise to owning a brewery
as Pat. has done. On the contrary, he requires
one all to himself to assuage his thirst and finds it
not.
Joseph Symes, the boss Freethinker,
dropped into a bit of luck, the other day. One of
his adherents was polite enough to die and leave
him £350. With a few more bequests like this,
Joseph thinks he could give the coup de grace to
the churches and divert all the Sunday three-
pennies that are now scooped by them, into his own
plate. The funeral of the dead Freethinker was a
rather curious affair. Joseph officiated with his
hat on—to show his contempt for a mere corpse,
we suppose. But considering it was the corpse of
a man who had left him a small fortune, we think
he might have stretched a point and taken his hat
off in its presence. These little courtesies cost
nothing, and, if they did not gratify the remains,
might give pleasure to its friends. There wss an
assemblage of 30 or 40 persons at the funeral.
When Joseph made a speech at the grave he was
injudicious enough to say that “a Christian when
he came to die was afreid.” There were instant
murmurs of dissent, and Joseph narrowly escaped
being knocked into the grave. This was not warn-
ing enough for him, however. He went on to
state that “if tho belief of tho Christian was
correct there was not one of those present hut |
had some friend or loved one suffering eternal
torment.’ ’ Immediately after making this remark
he retired into a position of security behind the
undertaker. Before the crowd left the cemetery
a man stepped up to Mr. Symes and touched him
on the shoulder. It was an old townsman of his
with whom he had gone to Sunday-school in Eng-
land. “Well, Joseph,” was his cheerful greeting,
“I expected to find you again alive, but i am
sorry to find you dead in trespasses and sins.
Joseph felt the £350 cheque in his pocket, and
smiled.
Godfrey Egremont, lately secretary of the
Norwood Building Society, and dramatic critic of
the Adelaide Register, got more than six years
hard labour from Judge Boucaut the other day.
That sentence had a sting in it, considering the
market rate for embezzlements, and as the proven
charge against the poetic Godfrey only involved
£519118. lid. In the course of the speech from
the judgment-seat, however, two other sentences
were given to the prisoner, which will, we think,
give him food for meditation during most of his
time in gaol. Judge Boucaut said that “it seemed
as though the criminal classes were being reformed,
and that the eminently respectable classes were
becoming criminals.” We don’t know where the
evidence lies that the criminal classes are being
reformed. The latest reports from the various
prisons do not lead this way. But, waiving this,
what is the meaning of saying that “the eminently
respectable classes are becoming criminals ” ? He
was talking to an embezzler and about embezzle-
ments. The notion in his Honor’s head evidently
was that it is only of late eminently respectable
people have begun to stick to money or other pro-
perty entrusted to their keeping by others. Bless
his head, that was a Royal game in the Middle
Ages. That is what has made our great landed
estates. In collusion it has founded great church
corporations where the wealth of the many is still
enjoyed by the few, and great scats of learning in
which what was meant for the nation, is locked up
for the use ot a class. “ The eminently respect-
able classes are becoming criminals ’’—just now I
But perhaps his Honor means the middle classes,
the trading classes, the working classes. Yet none
of these classes is irreproachable; of none can it
be said that they are just now becoming criminal.
The Rubicon of virtue hag been passed by all of
them. Seeking the true sense of the words will
give Godfrey harder work than that allotted by
the gaol regulations. The only cheering thing in
them is his Honor’s implication that the prisoner
before him belonged to the eminently respectable
classes. That gives an Intimation of the place a
dramatic critic holds in Adelaide society.
Mr. Mark Quinton, who wrote the drama
“ In His Power,” now running at the Sydney
Royal, is the clever young gentleman whom Miss
«• Fortescue ” threw over to become engaged to
Lord Gumboil.
On and after the 23rd May, 1887, Chris-
topher Columbus, the discoverer of America, is
td be born at Calvi, in Corsica, instead of at
Genoa, as heretofore, it having been ascertained
that the first-named place was really where he
first saw the light.
Lyall, who was tried for robbing the Com-
mercial Bank of South Australia, at Yankalilla,
has been acquitted, and he owes the Judge a vote
of thanks for his good fortune. If about one-
half the evidence brought against him had been
tendered against us, we would likely have .iOined
the glorious army of martyrs at Berrima. See now
what it is to have a good Christian character I
Alfred Shaw, who brings oyer an English
eleven at the end of the year, has just celebrated
his 44th birthday. In Shaw, W. G. Grace, Hornby.
Barlow, and other cricketing lights, our boys
will meet men old enough to be the lathers or
some of them. But if, as we once heard Bonner
remark, with an ancient shake of the head, it
takes a lifetime to learn cricket,” age ought to be
an advantage rather than otherwise.
WBy cable we learn that Sir Saul Samuel
and his brother Agents-General are to be pre-
sented with the freedom of the city of London.
The freedom, in itself, has no pawning value,
being merely a parchment. But the mode of pre-
senting this “freedom” is of absorbing interest
to the recipients. It is, In these special oases,
enclosed in a casket. Aye, there’s the rub. Some-
times the casket is of gold and jewelled; some-
times of sliver filigree and not jewelled. The
Agents ought to stand out for the tip-top article.
Jos. Symes, of tho Liberator, is again
called upon by by the Victorian police to furnish
security against the appearance in his paper of
blasphemous and seditious articles, and is in-
formed that the alternative is prosecution. Jos.,
In reply, “ respectfully declines to furnish the re-
cognizances required until he has received some
official or legal description or definition of the
offences in question.” Symes knows perfectly
well that the authorities can’t define either “ blas-
phemy ” or “ sedition ” without letting the oat out
of the bag.
Bishop Moorhouse must be one of that
numerous class of clerics whose looks don’t pity
'em. Not so long ago the Bishop assured his Mel-
bourne adorers that the few, very few, years of
work left him should be devoted to the welfare of
Victorian souls. There was a suggestion of
“fading away like” in the Bishop's tones, and
many ladies present sighed considerably. Yet now
we have the Bishop of Manchester described by a
London correspondent as a gentleman with
“enough vitality for many additional years of
service, who may possibly conserve enough vital
force to win the Archbishopric of Canterbury.”
This is gratifying news. We trust our old friend
will conserve enough vital force to grace the
billet of Archbishop. The Lord knows that there
isn’t much of It required. The digestion is the
chief anxiety.
Mr. John L. Blyth, a Mormon elder from
Utah, is inculcating Latter Day truths in the
minds of the Melbourne people. Not very large
houses have supported Mr. Blyth up to the pre-
sent, but the lew men who do roll up are what the
poet terms “ right on the job.” At the last Sun-
day service an embryo Mormon earnestly inquired
of Mr. Blyth, “If a man goes to Utah cannot he
have as many wives as he likes?” This questioner
thought, as we fondly thought (on a certain occa-
sion when we packed up our traps for Salt Lake
City, but were detained in Sydney by a
writ for breach of promise) that plurality
of wives was the mainspring of Mormon-
ism. But no. Mr. Blyth says the law is not
for the masses, but only for those to whom God
has revealed himself. Now, we fancy, if we ever
do carry out our frustrated plan, the Deity will
certainly reveal himself to us about the second
day. If he doesn’t we shall return home. We can
. get one wife in N S.W.
The Boomerang.
The Australasian and South American (New
York) saysA reporter for the Mail and Ex-
press interviewed Sir Alexander Stuart, ex-
Premier of New South Wales, during his recent
brief stay in New York, and reports the following
as part of a conversation that took place con-
cerning the aborigines, or ‘bushmen,’ of Aus-
tralis, the speaker being Sir Alexander Stuart:—
‘ Their weapons are a spear and a boomerang.
In the use of the latter they puzzle the scientific
world. I have seen them throw the boomerang
as far as from 37th-street to 39th-street, and hit
the object. The fatal weapon rushes over the
object aimed at, and, suddenly turning back, flies
true to the mark. The exact shape of a boomer-
ang is somewhat like this diagram.
“Here follows the diagram, produced with the
aid of a piece of bent column-rule.
‘ The mystery of this weapon is that it returns to
the hand of the thrower after striking Its object.
They can hit a hat every time from say 37th-
street to 38th-street. No European has ever been
able to make a boomerang or equal a native in
throwing one.
About the same time the above appeared, the
New York Sun published the following:—
“Mr. Barnum says that he has wasted SOOOdol. on
boomerang-throwers, ‘You’ve heard of Austra-
lian bushmen,’ he said, * who have a weapon made
of a bent stick that they throw with wonderful
skill, hitting the prey unerringly, the boomerang
returning of itself to fall at the feet of the marks-
man ? I had an agent go from London to the
wilds of New South Wales; but he writes me that
the accounts are two-thirds lies, and the remaining
third isn’t worth bringing away. The boomerang
is a fact, and the native Australian savages fling it
at game-missing about as often as hitting; and it
will return, if it strikes nothing, to somewhere
near the starting point, but with no sort of cer-
tainty. My man searched thoroughly, and wit-
nessed the feats of the best experts to be found,
but they amounted to nothing in particular. The
famous boomerang is practically a myth.’ ”
“We hate to compare these statements. We
cannot doubt Sir Alexander Stuart’s word, and we
don’t like to suspect our own P. T. B. even of
exaggeration in his statement, let alone wilful
prevarication, especially about so trifling an object
as an old boomerang-thrower. We know the
exorbitant prices these artists are asking nowa-
days for their services, and could quite sympathise
with the great American showman if he found a
good boomerang-thrower unattainable, even for
the ‘greatest show on earth’; but he need not
disguise the fact, a good hatchet thrower, or even
an expert shot with the long bow could be relied
on to discount all the boomerang casters that ever
lived." An English traveller, who sunk his ancestral
patrimony in boomerangs, however, contradicts
both the above yarns. He declares the boomerang
to be possessed by seven distinct kinds of devil-
ment, but the worst and most expensive develop-
ment of its wooden cussedness is that when once
it gets loose it won’t come back to the bosom of
the family without hitting something, and it
never will hit the right thing. He made his
first experiment in England by casting this
agricultural Implement at a foreign goat in
bis front garden. The weapon passed the
animal, on the other side of the way, and then
travelled round the house, and climbed over two
fences for the express purpose of hitting an old
lady on the back of the head. It returned, carry-
ing several locks of hair in its teeth, and had to be
chained up in an outhouse to subdue its excite-
ment. Next time the boomerang was let loose it
was sent in pursuit of a retreating burglar, and
then it travelled several miles over a very bad
road to the nearest township, brained the only
policeman within a radius of six leagues, and re-
turned home at a late hour the next night, hot,
dusty, dishevelled, and dissipated-looking, but
triumphant, all the same, and carrying a fragment
of the officer as a clue. The boomerang, too, is
subject to fits of homicidal mania, and on the
whole it is not an article which even Barnum
could introduce with impunity into polite society.
It is utterly vicious and irreclaimable; it has no
more conscience than a gas-engine; and its blood-
thirsty tendencies are so strong that it has been
known to deliberately drive a missionary into a
corner and then chop him up with the most re-
volting barbarity. It Is, therefore, to be hoped
Sir Alexander Stuart, in his efforts to acclimatise
the boomerang in the old world, may meet with
the failure he deserves. It is cabled that Sir
Alexander is very ill. We are grieved, but don’t
wonder at it after reading the things he told the
American reporter.


ot p c p ,^iz a s ; n tMrpraise olthemerits
Marie Brizardi
New South Wales is following in the lead
in the Goulet champagne as
the eloquence-producing beverace nf hSL.
This famous brand, honoured by special aonoint- *
ment of the Queen and Prince of Wales was™™
Tramiay t f€Vtivit^s ndW !? k / aces ' the N ° rth Shore
Goulet, is the leading wine at London entertain-
-1S A the only . brand for Which the demand
increased in America during 1885.* “
SchnapS, menaed f ° r bot cli “ates~-Wolfe'fl
Political
Points
We are grieved to say that the Jennings
Cabinet la no better.
Irish landlords, says an English writer,
are feeling so nervous in anticipation of the
results of the Home Rule Bill that one or two of
them ara making preparations to fortify and
defend their houses.
Sir Thomas STllwraith is retiring from
the arena of Queensland polities, pressure of pri-
vate business being the reason assigned. What
the Asse ably will b@ without the familiar pre-
sence of Thomas, the Wrathful, it is hard to
Imagine.
The North Queensland Separation petition
bears over 10,000 signatures, and is nearly 1000 ft. in
length. The members of the Separation League
are jubilant over their prospects of success in the
matter. There is now no real opposition to the
movement.
The only authority, so far, for the allega-
tion that £300,000 of the N.S.W. railway revenue
has been stolen by a ring, is the Christian World,
of Sydney. We have heard of so many big steals
In soi-disant “Christian” circles lately that our
pious contemporary may really be in a position to
speak with some degree of certainty on this sub-
ject.
Sir George Grey is in capital feather this
session, and it Is to him, and not to {Sir Julius
Vogel or Sir Robert Stout, that the people of New
Zealand look for any useful measures of reform.
His little bills are being passed through the House
one after another in spite of all attempts to
throttle them, and both the Government and the
recognised Opposition party, under Major Atkin-
son, have just to grin and bear it, and let them
pass.
“ In the good old days.” says the Hon. J.
B. Patteison, of Victoria, “ Great Britain would
have asked France what price she wanted for New
Caledonia, and if France would not sell, Great
Britain would have taken forcible possession.” J.
B.’s idea of the old-time Briton seems to be, says
the E. News, that he was “a combination of the
opulent trader and the’ Imperious highwayman.”
And wasn’t that exactly the character of the men
who stole India ?
“His Grace the Duke of Beaufort” re-
cently prosecuted a poor boy for doing damage
to the extent of one penny, by taking a load of
sand from his Grace’s ancestral estate. A fine of
103. was inflicted. The boy offered 4i., all that he
could muster, but the Bench refused to do busi-
ness on the time-payment system, and sent him
up for two months’ imprisonment. That one
penny will one day be charged back to the luxuri-
ous Duke, with a fearful sum byway of compound
interest added.
It is cabled that in the division on the
Irish Bill, 94 “Liberals ” voted with the Conserva-
tives. We have some idea what kind of Liberals
these were, and are glad they have found their
right place. If a gentleman suddenly realises that
nature meant him for a hog, and only failed to
carry out her original Intention through a clerical
error, it is always a comfort to learn that he has
voted with the swine. We dare say that that pious
Australian, Sir William M‘Arthur, has made such
a discovery, and acted thereon.
That awful functionary, the Sergeant-at-
Arms, dropped on one of the Victorian senators
for reading a newspaper in his place in the House.
General joy was expressed that the worthy Ser-
geant had at least found a mission other than
drawing his £6OO a year. As a matter of fact,
there is plenty |of good work for him to do if he
only Used to do It. In the words of our clerical
friends, a large field of labour is open to the ser-
geant. He ought to make a round of the House
every evening and run in the drunks and in-
capables.
An American paper reports how two
violent lunatics were cured by being placed toge-
ther in a cell, and each told to watch the other as
he was dangerous, he himself being treated as if
he were perfectly sane. “They sat gazing com-
passionately at each other; in a week they were
quiet, and in two months perfectly sane.” This is
a touching anecdote, but the system does not
always succeed. In the N.S.W. Assembly more
than a hundred men have sat gazing at each other
for the last six months, and still)they show no signs
of improvement.
From a recent Sydney Echo “ Rents at
present are probably higher (in N.S.W.) than in
any other country, and the immediate effect of
the passing of the Property Tax Bill will be to in-
crease them considerably.” When a Property Tax
is introduced rents probably will rise, but there
Is at present no prospect of its imposition in
N. B.W. The “ unimproved land-tax ” will have a
direct tendency to reduce rents. There is nearly
as much difference between the two species of
taxation as there is between a decayed parson and
a capable journalist.
The drunken M.P. question also agitates
Maoriland. The Hon. Mr. Scotland brought for-
ward a motion in the N.Z. local Legislative Council
“to abolish hot dinners at Bellamy’s,” the local Par-
liamentary refreshment-rooms. He had seen Ms.P.
waddle into the House after big feeds, glutted and
almost comatose from the effects of oceans of
sack, and thought they could legislate as well for
their grateful country on something light, and less
“ lush.” His motion was lost “on the voices,” and
every M P. and M.L.C. in the land has got that
man “t et ’’—Ministers, Opposition, and Indepen-
dent, all regard him as a renegade and a person
to be avoided.
Dummying in N.S.W. has advanced an-
other stage. Now, the man who finds the capital
is as often as not a money-lender, who regards the
land only as an object of speculation. There are
multifarious methods, assisted by the huge stupi-
dity and apathy of some land boards, of working
the swindle, but the result is the same in every
case,—the law is defeated, the land boards
jockeyed, Mr. Abrahamsh gets the land, and the
dummy obtains heaps of sad experience. This Is
beautifully in accord with all history of the colony
ever the day Isince when a man jumped into the
Governor’s position for two hours, which he em-
ployed in faking up a grant of thousands of acres
of magnificent land to himself.
The papers in the Spalding-Airey enquiry,
after having been carefully edited in the rum-
bottle interest, and denuded of all Interesting
portions, have been at last presented to Parlia-
ment. The portions of evidence published show
that a very nice state of things existed even from
the day the Austral'an Contingent started for the
Soudan. Each officer seemed to have had some
special “ down ” on soma other, and the inevitable
S arsons m ado things a heap-sight worse. The Rev
ollingridge accused an officer of being drunk,
and then admitted that he had not seen him si,
but thought he was drunk because he did not show
up for church parade It is idle to comment upon
the relics of evidence now published; when the
whole story is wrung from the Ministers by motion
intheAssemsly.it will be seen what became of
the horses said to have been “given ” to England;
and many other interesting details now withheld,
will prove that the conduct of the expedition was In
keeping with the mad folly of permitting the Con-
tingent to go at all.
Two hundred Orangemen from Canada
have volunteered to serve in Ulster in the event
?u„ w^ mt ? °ut between the Nationalists and
Party. This opens a new and splendid
the Protestant faction. For
Ko' oar l Sitting Bull ’ and his Indian
9 ut of work in the western
a « a hav o been just dying for some one
Spotted Tail is also among the un-
?i£P IO J® d ’ a n(l would like, above all things, to
“r. Parnell s top-knot and hang it up in his
wigwam. And, in addition to these, there is that
warrior “ Eagle-sltting-on-a-rock-with-his-
with a Jarge following among
the Flat-head tribe, who would be more than wlli-
T?sj.°t» urn , °rangem e n and yell, “Down with the
Pope I so long as there were heads to be smashed.
[ it would be a truly luminous idea to hire the
gentlemen and, after painting them
rni* ® bu F- to take them over as auxiliaries to
Ulster, where they could fight and die and go to
Paradise or Gehenna in the Good Cause.
It is admitted on all hands that the Vic-
torian court at the Indo-Colonial Exhibition is,
both as regards its exhibits and its arrangements,
far ahead of that of N.S.W. The following is the
salary list of the officials of the N.S.W. court:—
SirlAlexander Stuart £lOO per month.
Captain Loftus go
Mr. Septimus Pryce 28
Mr. Kenneth Stuart 17 >f
Total £325
1 The only salary paid by Victoria is that of Mr.
James Thompson, the secretary, £5O per month.
&“£ h l£ or #P arfc of tbe> whole matter is that
the N.S.W. Government, although asked by the
A NEW-CHUM’S BENEVOLENCE.
OUR ARTIST (who is very charitable) to little Sydney street urchin whom he has just picked up:
“NOW, MY LITTLE MAN. IF YOU COME IN EVERY MORNING FOR AN HOUR AND
STAND FOR ME AS A MODEL, I WILL GIVE YOU SIX SHILLINGS A WEEK. THINK
OF THAT.”
BOY: “SIX BOB A WEEK? OH, I MAKE SIX BOB A DAY SELLING “THE BULLETIN.”
(Studio to LET.)
managing l authorities of the Exhibition to do so,
deliberately refused to make Sir Saul Samuel, their
Agent-General (who would have acted without
®xtra pay), Executive Commissioner for the colony.
The appointment, under the circumstances, of Sir
Alexander Stuart, looks like a most unsavory
job; it is costing N-S.W. £175 a month to snub Sir
haul and glorify Sir Patrick Jennings and Sir
A exander Stuart, the latter of whom is getting his
salary for nothing, as he is, we are sorry to see,
hopelessly ill all the time.
People who sneer at the “ parochial poli-
tics ” of these colonies would chuckle over a re-
cent leader in the Age. Speaking of David Gaun-
sou s motion approving o? the Gr nd Old Man’s
Irish scheme, the Age protests that “we have
quite enough to do with managing our own affairs,
and making a Constitution for Ireland is of less
importance to us jus t now than providing a per-
manent water supply for the arid districts.” The
grand principle involved in the Home Rule
scheme is ignored by this professing radical
journal. Assuming to be freedom’s own particu-
lar apostle, the Age calmly declares that the
struggle of our Irish brothers has no significance
in this part of the world. It is overshadowed by
the Irrigation Bill of proUge Deakin. From a
parochial point of view this is all right enough.
But there are times when the whole universe is
hardly large enough to supply the Melbourne
Age with food for hysterics. It turns out yards
of drivel about the condition of Bulgaria, the
foreign policy of Greece, the spread of civilisation
in Japan, and Queen Victoria’s brain power. The
question of Imperial Federation—mark ye I—pos-
sesses absorbing interest for this same paper,
which thinks “ making a Constitution for Ireland
is of less importance ” than watering the cabbages.
Faghl
The Hon. Alexander Campbell, of N.S.W.,
has decided that a graduated probate duty is not
only unfair but absurd, for. he says, it is those
who receive, not those who have the misfortune
to die and leave a million or so behind them, who
have to pay. He holds that the legatee who re-
ceives £5OOO say, should pay the same amount by
way of tax, no matter how much his father may
have had. This is a plausible argument, but so
wretchedly thin that it would only gain approval
la the chamber of the Fat, and Rich. Surely the
fossils of the N.S.W. Council are aware that the
son of a father who died worth £50,000 is likely to
receive a larger legacy than the child of a man
Tko only raked together £lOOO before departing.
And the man who has the larger amount will pro-
bably leave legacies to some who have but little
claim upon him, and who would not get a cent., un-
less there were a surplus available for bequests
after the family had been provided for. As the irre-
sponsible Council has interfered with the will of the
Assembly, it would be as well for the latter to
stick to the Ministry in this matter at least. The
same venerable senator tried to save settlements
made before the passing of the Stamp Act from
the operation of increased duties. If the amend-
ment to that effect becomes law, the solicitors will
have quite a busy time arrranging for the settle-
ments of the Croesuses of the Council.
“Corkscrew,” in the S.M. Hbbald, aloo-
holically remarks that “ a memo, of the names of
the patriotic members of the N.S.w. Parliament
who voted in favour of receiving £3OO, should be
remembered at future elections.” We have no
doubt they will be remembered carefully.
Hitherto the colony has got its representatives
for nothing, and that was exactly what they were
worth, or perhaps a little more. Some of them
should have paid £303 annually for the privilege
of Inflicting themselves, like the pestilence which
walketh in;darkness,|on this unhappy land, and the
sum now proposed will be well spent if It serves
to irrigate ever so slightly that howling desola-
tion yclept tbe Legislature of N.S.W. Nobody
would enter such a den of sin for the mere honour
of the thing, for many a man who represents a
N.S.W. constituency ran*s just a little higher than
an [opium-eater and a little lower than a habitual
drunkard; and very few would go in on the re-
mote chance of improving the tone of the Assem-
bly while there are crowns of martyrdom to be
won so much more cheaply in the Loyalty Islands
or the Solomon Group. It has become absolutely
necessary to offer payment for such a service. No
man can be expected to throw away his self-re-
spect gratis, and the only question which remains
to be answered is—whether £3OO a year will prove
sufficient to induce men of intellect to run their
heads against that brazen image which has so long
served for a Government in N.S.W.
The unconscious humorists of the N.S.W.
Assembly had quite a picnic on Friday, 11th, when
Mr. Thompson brought forward his motion as-
serting that for the conservation of the honour
and dignity of the House the sale of liquor in the
refreshment-room should be restricted to meal
times. The Remains of John Davies, of course,
delivered themselves of a cold-water philllpic
chock full of insolent upbraiding and self-
righteous rebuke, and asked, with a sneer, whether
it was cold water that killed Daniel Henry
Deniehy. John Davies, there are other things be-
sides rum which kill men politically; and among
them are the things that have killed you, and left
you, considered as a legislator, with nothing but a
face of brass and a tongue which never tires of re-
proving the weaknesses of others. Daniehy
may have soaked himself with rum, but 99 out of
100 men in Australia have more respect for the
dead Deniehy than they have for the live Davies.
Following the saintly member for West Sydney
came his colleague, Mr. To obey, whoso name is
sweetly suggestive of swankey; and then suc-
ceeded the enthusiastic Greer, who wished to pre-
vent the sale of liquors within the precincts of
the House altogether. About the best speech of
the evening was that of Mr. Abigail, who,
although a teetotaler, declined to vote with Mr.
Ihompson. Ultimately the motion was counted
out. It was afterwards rumoured that the re-
freshment-room had quite a full house at the time
the noses were counted below.
As a daily record of the verbal folly and
» dits L,? f “embers is projected, it 1
worth while to notice the style in which tha;
dreary record is issued under the present system
is to be a true and faithful re
®X or P ur Poses of evidence, of
is said in the House. This is the only ex
ff&SS the expense of its issue, but in spite of
i^L r l® t . m il re -i >r ?bably| eve n less, reliable than
e P° r ts lu the daily papers published without
®.°7 n e ;u“ e ut subsidy. Whether it is owing to
P,b®°omenally careless reporting or to the re-
Ji? ion *7 the orators themselves, speeches are
fhoMii n fhL Bhor Mtheir prominent features, and
tnere.is then published a record of what might have
certainly not said. As an instance,
speech of Sir John Robertson, which we com-
a r | cent leader, contains in
~ nothing profane, coarse, or even objec-
tionable. yet it contained, as all who heard it
* n ow, sentences which bore all these blemishes.
n ? aeem to have been as carefully
edited as if the veteran had done it himself. Nor
Is he the only member favoured. The signs of
‘ improvement” are visible in every
t think the country yearns much
for a Hansard at all, we are sure that it does not
H^ er f fo fi V* a v, lly Bue: but if Hansard is pub-
lished at all it should give a true, faithful, and par-
ticular account of what takes place. Under pre-
sent circumstances it is a fraud and delusion, and
for all practical purposes is utterly useless.
Julius Vogel, the N.Z. Treasurer, sug«
gests that the High Commissionership of the
Western Pacific should be vested in the Governor
of Maonland. He omits the customary formula
that he hopes by courtesy and strict attention to
business to merit a share of public patronage,”
but la applying for the billet all that is under-
stood. For virtually he wants the Commissioner-
-Bh!p himself. The Premier in New Zealand bosses
tbe unhappy Governor, and is in his turn bossed
by the Treasurer, so the latter would be master of
the situation. Sir Robert Stout, though ho now
wears the official dog-collar of a K.0.M.G., hardly
dare call his soul his own, but as he is a teetotal
agnostic and declares he does not possess one, that
point is of very small Importance. As for Sir
Julius, he would answer very well as High Com-
missioner, or anything else, if it were not for
his demoralising habit of falling down stairs.
H®, ba®.ih® gout in both legs, it is true, but
as he thinks with his liver, or some other part of
his anatomy, that does not impair his efficiency in
the least, and he is a safe man to put in charge of
an overdraft, or a deficiency, and will not embezzle
It as some treasurers do. But when there is a big
difficulty to be faced in the House, he is as hard to
find as a Sydney policeman when a free fight is
going on, and as unreliable as an N.S.W. member’s
three months after date.” On these occasions his
resource is to fall downstairs, and even if he were
a centipede, he would contrive not to leave hlm-
seif one !eg sufficiently sound to carry him down
to the House. Then he goes to bed and groans in
Dutch and German, and half-a-dozen other
languages, till the crisis is over. A man with such
of the B Paciflo 8e deBervea to be Hlfirh Commissioner
™& a a* ee *P r ? 1 po ? es to hold an exhibition t
otvf.wm' 6 t S e Centenary of the potato. Is not thi
Whin 1 business getting to be a little overdone
When Moses was in the wilderness and got stewet
“£S na f ? r d ? n I ? er every day he broke out at las
with a Jewish execration, saying, “Mvsoul ah
We commend 7 this remark to th
. w j anta fp firet up an exhibition i
tired of'hash? mternational soul Is also getting
The Ly-ee-Moon catastrophe provoked
wirhi unintentionally humorous sketches from
Melbourne Punch. Of these, the rescue of young
Adams was quite a masterpiece. A pair o
i? an^8 were stretched through a porthole
and the boy was placidly sitting on'em prepara
tory to being hauled on deck. M other part o
the poor mother, save the hands, was visible, bu
she wa S understood to be exclaiming, “Thank
£pdl ’ ’Twas a gorgeous flight of imagination
on the part of the artist. An Illustrate]
Police News cutis a fool to it. Young Adams
scrambled through that porthole by himself and
SyWtaS^uto?f , " dl6d lQ ignorance of her
of bequeathing property to a widow
o? 6 df on<ll ' 1 ° ri *kat B l l6 shall enjoy it only so
long as she remains unmarried, and spoke in this
connection of those wicked wills which men are 8
making every dav, which outrage the feelings of
beeves they leave behind them-that heathenish
feeling which endeavours to condemn a wife to
life-long widowhood, and which is only a modifi-
cation of the Indian Suttee, that compels a widow
to burn herself with the corpse of her husband ”
The feeling in question is sometimes justified bv a
St. Paul of doubtful meaning*
fhn fm 0D f er pa ?l ages be quoted on
the other side from the same authority but
ku“ an nature protests against it. If a man has
| a i I®dtoln 1 ®dtoln8 p irea woman with such Intense love
for him that she cannot allow death itself to cancel
the bond, the next best thing that he can do is to
refram from the cruelty of endeavouring to link
the living and the dead hand by a golden chain.
w^° Urne is not a merry place at its best,
but it is improving. The people in authority over
there are becoming slowly, but surely, amenable
to common sense-a condition of things which wo
ffl&SSft" 66 iT I By< l ney 80me time about the
middle of the next century. They are beginning
to see that there is a considerable section of the
h ? se tas £ e does not lead them to drown
their cares at ginger-beer blow-outs and raspberrv-
wine revels. It has dawned upon them—verv
dimly as yet, but still perceptibly-that in a com-
“unity of over 300,000 souls (we risk this exS
sion, though we suppose in the coming census ae-
cording to materialism it would be considered
incorrect. But then we hold with Pope- 8 d d
Be not the first by whom the new is tried,
Ner yet the last to cast the old aside)—
that in a community of over 300.000 souls, as we
+t D ? ay n PoBsib y s e 80me who Would like
to take their liquor and smoke their pipes and
generally enjoy themselves in a genial and decent
manner in any place where such an attraction as
good music was held out. This is the Continental
fashion, and it has worked well on the Continent 1
Continental concerts are to be established in Mel-
bourne, and it remains to be seen whether theV
will work as well there. The committee is a good
one, anyhow. Its vice-president is a baronet (Sir
Arthur Nicholson he used to be a mounted
trooper in Victoria at 7s. a day, but by and bye he
married an heiress), and it contains on its list twn
ministers of the Lord (the Kev. Charles Strong and
Rev. Walter Pellowes), one Minister of the Crown
(Mr. Lorimer), the German Consul, a police magis-
trate, the Government astronomer, two or three
professors, and-James Smith of the solar system
And lager beer will be sold! Of course it will be a
howling success. B a


T
H 1 A T B E ROT A L.
Wimjambok, Qarnib and Mijsoroti, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
Re-appearance of those favourite actors tne
WILLIAMSONS.
; MAGGIE MOORE and J. C. WILLIAMSON,
In their perennial drama,
STRUCK OIL
STRUCK OIL
STRUCK OIL.
JOHN BTOFEL Mr. Williamson.
LIZZIE BTOFKL .. .... Miss Maggie Moore.
And the intensely amusing topical Farce the
CHINESE QUESTION.
The Williamsons in their original characters.
Business Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE,
CASiLEftBAaR-eTBEIIT,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampler.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
INDESCRIBABLE SENSATION.
UNMISTAKABLE ENTHUSIASM.
CREATED BY THE BRILLIANT PRODUCTION’
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Popular Prices—Dress Circle Ba„ Stalls 3a., Pit Is-
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
GAIBTfeY THBATKB.
Leasee ... .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager., .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
A PErIeCT FURORE GREETED MOLA,
The Beautiful Lady Athlete, actually shot from
a Monster Gun 39 feet from the stage to the Dome
of the Theatre, and caught hand to hand hy
OHMY -
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL, „ ,
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. W. Hughes.
Agent H.J. Samuel.
A
OAD B M Y
Lessee
o r music.
.. F. B. Hiscocks.
The Fashionable and Popular Resort.
The Greatest Hit of All achieved again Last Night
with the new programme, and the Great
Versatile Artist BARLOW,
in his character sketches with
HISCOCR’B FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
The Great Double Quartette—" THE LETTER.
PRINCESS THEATRE
(Late Old Masonic Hall), York-st.
Lessee Mr. T. Buckley.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
BUCKLEY’S GREAT NEW
HIBERNICON AND COMEDY COMPANY.
Mr. JOHN COGHLAN. the World's Great Irish
Piper and Bard of Erin.
Mr. JOHNNY COWAN, the Ebony Wonder.
The most laughable entertainment in Sydney.
Scream power turned on at 8 o’clock.
LCHAS. GARDNER, Business Agent"
HALL.
T H
B ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ... Mr. rrans du
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week.
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTBLSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, Ss; stalls, Is;
balcony. Is.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7.30 o’clock.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), a BENEFIT will be
given in aid of the Firemen recently injured
by the fall of house in Leichhardt.
Mr. Frank Smith.
E
XHIBITION BUIIDI
THE JAPANESE TILLAGE.
LAST WEEKS LAST WEEKS.
N G
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr. Willard begs to announce to the general
public that. In consequence of the Exhibition
Building being pre-engaged for an Industrial
Exhibit, the stay of the Japanese must necessarily
be a brief one, and although In
THE ZENITH OF SUCCESS,
Thousands visiting the Village daily,
he has determined upon making the price of
admission
ONE SHILLING,
to enable all to witness this Most Novel Extra-
. ordinary Amalgamation of Theatrical and
Industrial Incongruities,
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS RE-DIYIYA.
Tickets are for sale at W. H. Paling’s and Nichol-
son and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency
LORD CARRINGTON.
BENEFIT of the LY-88-MOON RELIEF FUND.
PROTESTANT HALL, WEDNESDAY, July 7.
MAY FAMILY-FIRST APPEARANCE.
Tickets— 4s. t 35., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box plan at Paling’s, George-street. Tickets
may also be had at Paling’s, and John Woods and
Co. (Limited), 13 Bridge-street.
JOHN GEORGE, Manager.
YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(organised imi).
Harry Lynch,
NORTHERN TOUR.
Victoria Theatre, Newcastle (return visit),
Thurs., Frid. and Sat., 17th, 18th, 19th June.
Maitland, Morpeth, Raymond Terrace, Stroud,
Gloucester, Taree, Kempsey, Port Macquarie,
Grafton, &c., to follow.
Sydney Farewell season (prior to departure for
South Africa and Great Britain), August and Sep-
t ember
JAMES SMITH,) Advance Agent.
H. B. BARNES, f Secretary.
TO THEATRICAL COMPANIES.
HUNT’S ASSEMBLY HALL., Gunnedah, Is
now completed and ready for hire. It is
the largest hall in the town, fitted with commo-
dious Stage. Scenery, &o. For terms, apply to
THEATRE ROYAL,
DMKIIAMFTONi
above favourite house of Amusement has
I just beefi thoroughly renovated, and is now
Open to Travelling Companies,
For terms, &c., apply to
S. HUNT. Gunnedah.
CHARLES NASH,
Propretor,
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HOUSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &o„ apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
D
0 B
B T N S’ H
Junee Junction.
ALL,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town,
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “ Much Ado
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
MON 3. CAILLIAUB Singing Classes.-New
quarter, Monday, 3Pst. Tickets 10s. 61. at
Paling's, 359, George-street.
BACKCAPPING AGE NTS—RE AD.
BERT. WILLISON,
the youngest circus agent on earth, after a bril-
liant tour of Australia with
FRYER and CO.’S EQUINE PARADOX,
sailed with the Show for Java, China, and the
East, per R.M.S. Bulinba, from Townsville, Sunday,
23rd May, will return Sydney November. Letters
G.P.0., Sydney.
h
LIMITED,
356 Gaorga-straat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ©ROANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues 8c Prices on Application.
«. H. PALING ACo.
SS6 George-street, Sydney.
Tho New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
Join, Lawson Bros., S Ct.,
39 OABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of *5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
i BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., Sc GO.
39 CASTLERBAGH STREET.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land,
Colonies or New Zealand, may be
Mabtin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
GOSFORD
i
MODEL FARMS.
SECURE some of this RICH PASTORAL LAND
before the Railway opens.
Illustrated pamphlets, containing all informa-
tion, views, and hints to Farmers and Settlers,
sent free by
BOYD & KING,
AUCTION BEKS,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, J une 15,18£6,
rfIBNDBKS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
I PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnmbnt Gazbttb, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice sure strictly complied
With.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. LYNB.
EXHIB
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street*
Here elwayslnSTO'&K, for SAL A
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
BALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, end
GENERAL HARDWARE?
GLASS, CHINA.
▲ED
lAS THS« Willi,
WINES, BEERS, AHD SPIRITS
end general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER end SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. OATEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
THB FKBBH roOD AND ICB COMPANY
(Limited)
Have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
▲I
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o« with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may he left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food and fee Co., Limited,
Hoftd Office • * ••• 31 Harbour-street
Stables ♦♦ ... Llverpool-street,
Factory .. ... .. ... Mittagong.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND*
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STRBET, and 538 GEORGB-STRBBT,
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. *♦ 676,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
N. P. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physical! and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &e., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
te&-
|» PccoxAtior>£.
? ‘
ft’RTKTie. ~y\ i'.,V\Hi|-g
o << ewooc;
MrA
Mm3').
W-*
7^
1
1 )
m
mtin-’inifi <u ,!/.
JE- r
a jfi!
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)


UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “Masslllia,” 13 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spiller’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’S ESTABLISHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st,,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-stbeet*
THE REV. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Boys, past and present, will
be held at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange*
Sydney, ON WEDNESDAY, the 33rd JUNE NEXT*
at 3.30 o’clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retires into
private life.
Contributions and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take will be re-
ceived by any of the undersigned who reiy on a
ready response to this notice.
E. P. RAMSAY, Museum, Sydney
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-
street, Sydney
RICHARD E. KEMP, M.A., St.
Peters, Richmond
E. J. JENKINS, Medical Superin-
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal, Sydney
JAS. a. BRODIE, Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office, Sydney.
Joint
Hon.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—'“Struck Oil” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—" Fun on the Bristol ”... ..
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce..... „
Royal Standard Theatre—" His Natural
Life ”
Exhibition Building-Japanese Village .. „
Academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels
Victoria Theatre, Newcastle.—Lynch
Family of Bellringers „
The last week of the present company at
the Sydney Theatre Royal began well on Saturday
night last. A double bill, both items of which
were good, was presented. The management
appear to have taken pattern from the host in the
parable who kept his best wine till the close of
the feast. Mark Quinton’s drama, " In His Power,”
merited to come out earlier. There is much clever-
ness, and a deal of freshness in it. It is short, goes
rapidly, has a little blood, much love, a couple of
fights, some comic adventures, and one; or two
long pathetic speeches.
• * *
Mr. Titheradge, in the part of Scara, and
Miss Myra Kemble, in that of Mrs. Graham, gave
specially effective representations. Miss Kemble’s
intonation is very pleasing. Her manner is with-
out angularity or abruptness. The author put
before her some difficulties, however, and she
showed an occasional consciousness that the
sequence of thought was defective. She has to
make two long speeches to two husbands at
almost the same time. She has to run away from
both, and to tell both why, Mr. Quinton wanted
another act to thin out the complications he got
his head Into. When Scara is dragged out to the
street, the lady occupies the stage as his lawful
wife. But she has been 18 months married to
Graham, who shares the stage with her. What
next ? Well, shots are heard, and it is announced
that the people in the street have killed Scara. The
lady is, therefore, now a widow. While the re-
port of the firearms is in her ears, she embraces
Graham. That is a slap-up finish. It is also the
quickest time ever made by a widow on or off any
stage.
* * *
This Eugene Scara comes in for all the
maledictions in the piece. A gambler called Rene
describes how his life has been ruined by him. He
prays the heaviest curses he can think of on the
man’s head. He prophesies that vengeance will
fall. Mrs. Graham pours out fierce rhetorical
execrations. She, too, prophesies that vengeance
will fall. In the third act the curses come true to
the letter. Rene re-appears. The wronged
woman re-appears. It is a moment of fulfilments.
* * •
Playwrights are pertinacious in meting
out this kind of abstract justice. Where is there
any evidence that in the life around us the curses
of the wronged carry ? Who will get up and point
to a single case where the curses of deceived
women or robbed orphans brought a scoundrel to
his knees ? The lesson that daily life teaches is
that these maledictions go lor nothing, or if any-
thing comes from themitisthatthe scoundrel who
deceived and robbed grows complacently fat.
To get at a scoundrel you must go, not for his
heart with the wind of curses, but for his
throat w th the knuckles of law or your own. He
walks away from the white-faced woman at the
corner of the street. He knows her lips are
breathing anguish-born, anger-winged syllables
over his life. Rubbing his clammy hands he
passes along to his bronzed gates. What about
her? Let her mumble I He marches up the
gravelled carriage-drive and goes in among the
spacious rooms where, under lacquered ceilings,
shadows of himself are thrown on scores of shining
surfaces. All around him represents ruined lives.
He has ground the poor, he has robbed the widow,
he has blackened the maid. He will have a bishop
and a couple of Cabinet Ministers to dine with
him to-night. What about maledictions ? What
about hers in the street ?
* * *
Poor young aged woman, give up that
notion. There is no such thing as curses carry-
ing. He has eaten the heart out of your exist-
ence. Where his teeth touched will never again
be fair. You will grow paler and thinner, and
weep more copiously throughout the nights, until
some morning people will shake their heads and
say the end has come. Did one of your curses
ever carry? Not one. On the very morning
people will shake their heads he will breakfast
with two bishops and four members of Parliament
and enjoy himself divinely. What, then, if curses
will not carry? Broken-hearted, withered, blighted,
blackened woman, go at the scoundrel with some-
thing that will carry.
• * * *
"For the Term of His Natural Life” is
still on the boards at the Sydney Royal Standard,
and its popularity appears to be always on the
increase. This success cannot he entirely caused
by a desire on the part of colonists to study the
manners and customs of their ancestors, and the
company may take credit for having hit the taste
of a Sydney audience to a nicety. On Saturday
night it would have been hardly possible for a
skeleton to introduce himself sideways into any
portion of the house, and in the circle, even, the
reflection of an absent ghost would have found
the situation rather a tight fit. The convict gang
is as jolly as ever, and Gabbett, who rises superior
to circumstances, still looms in the background
like the shadow of a yellow pestilence in a barren
land. Captain Maurice Frere is wearing out
Government property in the shape of " cats ” at a
most alarming rate, and scorns to listen to the
appeals of convicts to be allowed the option of a
fine. But cat-o’-nine-tails takes well in Sydney,
and to all appearance the drama may roll on like
the dark-blue ocean until the rush of circum-
stances have worn away the walls of the rever-
berating corridors of time, and the axe of fate,
crashing through the cranium of intelligence, has
reduced us all to dust. (N.B.—This noble senti-
ment is entirely original.)
♦ * ♦
John Rex (Mr. H. Stoneham) was the only
character of Importance who did not receive due
notice from us last week, and though the rapid
approach of eternity renders it necessary to be
brief, he deserves a passing mention. He was
histrionically born, so far as we can learn, of
Christian parents, and in his earlier days he at-
tended the Sunday-school and said his prayers at a
mother’s knee. Later on in life he went into the
banking business and took charge of the money
and valuables of gentlemen who were out late at
night. Unlike many other bankers he did not
present an annual balance-sheet, but the result to
depositors was quite as satisfactory as if he had,
and when at last he sits down on the rugged edge
of despair and admits that fate is too much for
him, it is impossible to refuse allittle sympathy to
a man whom Providence evidently intended for a
bishop, and who was so eminently qualified for the
P ftrt * * *
The dress circle at the Royal Standard is
an excellent place to die in. In any part of it the
weary stranger can lean back against the draught
from the staircase, and pillow his aching head on
a soft corner of the blizzard which rises from be-
low. For a man who wants to be measured for an
untimely death we can confidently recommend
this part of the house, and we mean to take a
fiendish vengeance on our enemies some day by
presenting them all with tickets. For ourselves
we will draw the cloak of hypocrisy over our suf-
ferings, and merely mention that after two visits
there seems every reason to believe that Heaven
intends to permit its servant to retire to eternal
rest.
* * * *
The advent of Buckley’s Hibernicon at
ihe Sydney Princess must be classed among the
-first disastrous effects of the late Conservative
victory on the Home Rule question, but even the
■Grand Old Man, with all his foresight and saga-
city, could hardly have imagined that such sudden
vengeance would descend upon the remotest
bounds of that Empire where the sun of righteous-
ness never sets. The Hibernicon, regarded as an
instrument in the hand of Providence for chas-
tislng a rebellious and stiff-necked generation, is
worthy of a certain amount of credit, but, apart
from that, it should be treated strictly on the
principle of cash on delivery—the man who pays
for his amusement in advance at the Princess is
apt to And himself left. The entertainment is
unique, for it Is not, properly speaking, either
drama, comedy, farce, opera, or anything else—in
fact, it resembles nothing hitherto known in
Heaven above, or on earth beneath, or in the other
place which is still further beneath. It is not a
Fenian demonstration, or an agrarian murder, or
Parnellite caucus, but it is an Irish outrage none
the less; audit can best be defined as supplying
the hitherto missing link between a burlesque
panorama and a Sunday-school picnic.
« • «
The plot hinges chiefly on a nigger with
two portmanteaus. The latter contain the worldly
all of two American tourists who are paying a
visit to Ireland, and studying the beauties of the
scenery and the changing aspects of the potato-
blight. They hardly even make a pretence at
travelling, and it is really unnecessary that they
should, for they have only to stand still while the
canvas atrocity canters by, carrying lakes, rivers,
mountains, and cities on its painted and illumin-
ated bosom. Julius F. Cuffee, the coloured
brother above mentioned, makes African jests
among these beauties of nature, some of them
apparently extracted from that book which Job
wished his enemy had written. As the volume
never appeared, it is probable the publishers in
the land of Uz refused to run the risk without a
guarantee, and the event has proved that these
literary Chaldeans were right. But if Cuffee’s
witticisms are old, his songs are fatally original.
Barney O'Neil acts as cicerone, and explains the
attractions of the landscape while each successive
scene rushes down a steep place into the sea.
There is, of course, a moral attached to the piece;
and, after sitting it out, the visitor learns the great
lesson, that it is unsafe for a black man to monkey
round with a white man’s sweetheart unless he is
fully prepared to prove an alibi. But as the at-
tendance of niggers is very small the lesson is
almost thrown away. It might, perhaps, have
been useful to a solitary Chinaman who flitted like
an unquiet spirit round the door on the opening
night. He was, seemingly, half Inclined to enter,
but the recollection of his wife and family in
Canton forbade the extravagance, and with a sigh
he passed away.
* * *
Miss May Vivian, as Mollie O’Connor, sup-
plied an oasis in the great African desert which
Cuffee spreads around him. We have seen better
acting and heard better singing, but at least she
proved by her presence that life is at times some-
thing better than a dreary pilgrimage with odds
of three to one in favour of perdition at
the end. Her appearance Induced us to
abandon our thoughts of suicide, and we took
to drink instead. But just as we settled down for
a little quiet enjoyment the funny man would
project his Ethiopian shadow across the landscape,
and tell us in strict confidence that “ his boss re-
quired a hat twice his size three times to fit him
once,” or make some equally startling announce-
ment, and then we would hold ourselves down and
repeat all the prayers we learnt from a pious
mother in the days of childhood In order to
smother the cuss words that rose within us. The
step-dancing was well-received by the audience,
but, though it was good of its kind, we are com-
pelled to admit that in this branch of Industry a
man can never outdo the performance of a centi-
pede tied to a hot stove, and, after having once
witnessed the latter, we resolved to confine our-
selves in future to those departments of athletics
where superior Intelligence has a chance.
« « * •
At Sydney Gaiety “ Fun on the Bristol ”
is still rampant. The play depends entirely on Mrs.
O’Brien for its success, although iEola forms an
attractive auxiliary, and we tremble nightly lest
the agonies of sea-sickness should cut the widow
off in the flower of her exuberance. But with her
aid the piece may have a long run yet, though the
dry bones and overburdened sinews of the plot
creak and groan perpetually with the weight of
the huge superstructure of fun and drollery piled
upon them. But as everything in this world must
have an end, we would urge upon the widow that
she should make preparation for the closing of
her present career, and think seriously of settling
down in life. We are no believers in celibacy,
and, as our intentions are strictly honourable, we
will be glad to hear from her at this office, pro-
vided she finds herself capable of sharing the
devoted heart thus placed at her service; or if
she should wish to adopt a deserving orphan we
are equally ready to fill the bill. As there have
been 14 elopements in the O’Brien family during
the past week, we are sure she must feel the want
of some one on whom she can lean in declining
years.
m m m m
The Federal Minstrels at Sydney Aca-
demy are as ebon as a hearsa (composi-
tor’s error, we wrote “as erst”), and as
joyous as always. To them has lately ac-
ceded the ever youthful Barlow, who in the in-
tervals of vocalism hurls forth those dear old
jokes, which once caused strong men to curl up
until their toes found refuge in their ears, and
howl in an agony of deliriously hilarious ecstasy.
Mr. Barlow is not classically lovely, but then he is
not In an atmosphere of beauty when he sits with
the sable circle. Sweet birds of song have rarely
brilliant plumes, and gifted writers are usually
seedy as to hats, and seldom receive any added
beauty from, say, their pants. But to get back to
singers. In a little divorce case, tried in Sydney
some years ago, the respondent was said to have
remarked about her alleged co. in crime, Mr. 8.,
that “ he was uglier than a yahoo, but he sang like
the birds in heaven.” But he, the original Blue-
tailed Fly, is deeply .humorous. His army and
navy sketch is very funny, and always forces a
great billow of smile that can be heard right down
to Durand’s Alley to sweep over an enraptured
audience like a volcanic eruption over a MaoM
village.
* * *
Sam Keenan is in great form. When he
opens his mouth to sing half the house yawns at
the sight of so great a cavity. Horace Bent has
added further intensity to his smile, which is now
such as novelists mean when they say “radiant;”
and Warner nightly produces a safe-cure for
mordant melancholy.
♦ • •
One thing we notice. Although Ad.
Ryman left with the Crimson Circle, there are still
a lot of ads. exhibited by the present tenants of
the Academy, and many of these, too, are ryman
ones.
* * * *
The announcement that the Agamemnon
of yEschylus would be played in the original
Greek at Sydney University, drew a large and
fashionable audience together at that hall of
ancient knowledge. All attempted to look as if
the language had been familiar to them from
Infancy, and one or two succeeded in the effort.
For ourselves, we must admit we studied the
tragedy under considerable difficulties. Our Athe-
nian compositor 1s at present on the sick list, and
we have just learned that a brigand from Corinth,
whom we had engaged regardless of expense as an
addition to our literary staff, has been buried by
the unspeakable Turk under the shadow of Mount
Zygos, so that our classic department is rather
short-handed. Owing to deficiencies In early edu-
cation, too, we find ourselves somewhat at a loss
when Bulgarian, Hottentot, and other poetic lan-
guages are concerned, but notwithstanding this
handicap, the beauties of the play are too obvious
to be overlooked.
* * *
The scene opens with a wail from a prime-
val policeman on night duty. He has been
stationed for about 10 years on the palace roof at
Argos, and. having no umbrella, he has become a
victim to Greek rheumatism as a consequence of
getting wet. From his remarks we learn that
Agamemnon, the King of the district, has gone
out with a Soudan contingent to capture Troy
and bring back his sister-in-law Helen, who emi-
grated there. And then, just as he finishes his
lament, this member of the force sees the beacon
blazing to announce the fall of Priam’s city, and
the drama begins in earnest. The inmates of the
Benevolent Asylum next appear on the scene,
dressed In bed furniture—the saddest looking
crowd of dead-beats ever seen in Greece, or out
of It; and their remarks, together with a few
observations from Queen Clytemnestra, throw
some light on Argive politics, which appear
to be of a decidedly gory character. But
then the conqueror Agamemnon drives up in a
triumphal bullock-dray, accompanied by a pri-
soner, the royal prophetess Cassandra, and a pro-
found calm falls on the audience while his vic-
torious legs carry him into his ancestral halls. But
Cassandra remains outside and makes remarks
that raise the hair of her listeners. From her we
learn with regret that Agamemnon’s uncle was a
cannibal, and his father a regular bad lot. If she
would stop here it would not be so bad, but the
lady has seemingly resolved to take it out la
cussing, and she gets through eight prophecies in
eight consecutive minutes, while the Argive orlp-
Sles tear out their white beards by the roots in
error. Finally she, too, enters the whitewashed
palace, and all is still.
* ♦ *
A shriek and two roars from within tell
that the drama is again in progress. The door
opens and Clytemnestra, who, though upwards
of 2000 years old, still seems an active and intelli-
gent female, appears on the verandah, where she
makes a statement and swings a tomahawk, both
of wmch create a profound impression in well-
informed circles. Agamemnon and Cassandra,
she reports, have gone to sleep with their respec-
tive fathers, having been suddenly and unex-
pectedly jerked across the Jordan, and the Queen
calmly explains how she herself did the jerking,
while the 12 ruins of ancient Greek architecture
tear their white hair and kick out with
their bronzed old legs in an agony of des-
pair. And there inside the doorway lie the
corpses of the Argive warrior and the Tro-
jan maiden, just as they fell when their
souls were wafted by the meat-axe to the other
shore of the shining river. Clytemnestra looks
very attractive in her new character as an unpro-
tected female, and. in spite of her crime, the
audience cannot help indulging a hope that she
will not be compelled to take in plain needlework
for a living. But the spell is broken by the arrival
of iEgisthus, a dude of the dark ages, who an-
nounces himself as a candidate for the crown, and
on his appearance the 12 apostles grow so excited
that they have to be bound over to keep the peace.
Finally, however, the ministerial crisis ends by
the palace door closing with a bang, and the cur-
tain falls, while the elders do a can-can of fury
close to the footlights.
« « «
Agamemnon (Mr. R. R. Garran) has but
little to do. If we remember rightly, he was
deified after his death, and it must be admitted
that a finer-looking billy-god than:the Argive king
could not well be imagined. Mr. H. A. Bussell as
Clytemnestra was tall, stately, and commanding,
and wore his petticoats with a grace that could
only come of long practice. Mr. G. H. Leibius
took the part of Cassandra, and d d the house
of AtreuS with a ladylike grace that was very
charming; while the Benevolent Asylum, whose
mission it was to totter and sing, did both admir-
ably. Jlgisthus (Mr. L. E. F. Neill) was also a
great attraction, and a word of praise is due to the
damp policeman on the roof. The play is a con-
siderable improvement on the ordinary run of
Irish comedies, and if a good detective and a rail-
way accident, or a big insurance fraud could be
introduced, it would be perfect in every detail.
♦* * «
The Sydney Opera House is off with the
old Harding-Searelle love on the 18th Inst, and on
with the new Wybert Reeve amour on the follow-
ing night. The opening piece of the comedy
season will be “ The Rocket,” of which much
more anon. Messrs. Harding and Co. are bound
North for a Queensland season extending over the
big part of three months. May they never take the
horseshoe from the door, or ever wander around
the vicinity of a New Zealand volcano when it is
just starting on a tour through the provinces.
* * * *
The “Albury (N.S.W.) Paganini” is In
Sydney, with a large desire to exhibit his won-
drous gifts and powers to a sympathetic and
cultured audience. He is a short, jolly, wrinkled
man, about as dumpy as they make them. His
gift came to him all of a heap one Sunday; this
was the case with an amateur bassoonist at our
lodgings last week; his gift struck him all of a
heap, and on the head, too. It was a brick. Mr.
Denny, the A.P., says he hopes to be able to make
his audience laugh. We are certain he will. He
bears a world-wide reputation in Albury and
Hatter’s Crossing.
** * *
A unique Negro Entertainment is drawing
very large and very soulful audiences to the Mel-
bourne Town Hall. This is not a burnt cork,
bones, and banjo show, but kind of sacred like.
The entertainers are the Fisk Jubilee Singers, an-
nounced as being emancipated slaves and descend-
ants thereof. To the careless observer there is a
good deal more “ descendant ” than slave about
the seven young lady and four gentlemen Jubilees.
For instance, one of the soprani rejoices in the
name of Malone and a semi-Irish cast of counten-
ance. If the Malones are born slaves, then we can
only say that Gladstone’s abortive Home Rule
Bill is urgently needed. But this is by the way.
It doesn’t alter the fact that these 11 sons and
daughters of Amurrika are the real original
troupe (or a slightly revised edition of it) which
started on a singing pilgrimage in 1871 for the pur-
pose of raising funds to establish the Fisk Univer-
sity for dark-skinned students. How much
they raised we can’t exactly remember—but
it was a lump. Admirers can glean all par-
ticulars from a book (price 3s„ or 4s. in
superior binding) which is offered for sale
during the interval instead of lemonade and
oranges. This interval is a big feature in the
evening’s amusement. It fills a much felt want by
enabling Mr. Loudin, the manager, to speak a few
words. His address is a skilful combination of
Stuart Cumberland and Exeter Hall missionary.
He melts ’em to tears with [touching references to
the origin of the troupe and their melodies; he
enters into a little dissertation on the advantage
of buying the 4s. book in preference to the inferior
volume at 35.; he tickles’em up with mention of
performances before Queen Victoria and the Em-
peror Bill, puts in another word for the 4s. book,
evokes a further tear, and gracefully retires amid
sobs and applause. Then the book is brought
round—just like the plate at Divine service. And
here let us pay a tribute of admiration to the
business arrangement of Mr. Loudin. No passes
are issued at this interval. Nobody can run out
and thus escape the temptation of that 4s.
volume, which—thanks to this wily policy—
is now in its one hundred and twentieth thou-
sand. Shades of authors who have died hungry,
think of that I But about the warbling. Qaeen
Victoria. Ged bless her! was quite justified in
saying “angkor” when she heard the Jubilees.
Their part singing is—yes, we must agree with her
Majesty-very beautiful. The prima donna, Miss
Mattie Lawrence, could certainly command a big
figure in comic opera, and Mr. Loudin puts in some
fine basso solos. But the entertainment must be
approached in a serious frame of mind, otherwise
nigger hymns, with harmonium accompaniment,
get very satisfying after you’ve swallowed the
first six. A clog dance would certainly wake
things up. No matter, with the assistance of the
clergy (who are gone, to a man, on Miss Lawrence)
and the charms of novelty, the Jubilee Singers
will make a lot of money in Australia. We don’t
know whether the loot is still going to the Fisk
University—the programme is discreetly silent
on that point. But anyone paying his two
bob at the door has the satisfaction of
knowing that he is helping on a good work,
or helping on ;the original workers. Either
thought should make him happy. For ourselves,
we must plead guilty to going in on the “ nod.”
» « «
When George Darrell left Invercargill
(N.Z.) he was told ty Joe Brown that there was
some money in Hobart, so, instead of coming to
Sydney, the author-actor steamed straight for
that place. The passage was stormy. The com-
pany shipped in the Waihora, and for a day and
night timbers creaked, billows roared, and the
Sunny South” looked as If it were withdrawn
for ever from this upper world. George is, how-
ever, a fatalist. Something—the consciousness
possibly, of the merits of his dramatic labours—
assures him that he is not destined to be drowned.
Accord! nglylhe drew the companyjaround, and the
smile of stoical composure that lit up his face
kept their hearts brave till they sighted Hobart.
It will take them a month, it is calculated, to
satisfy Hobart and Launceston, and then—well,
unless Sydney is willing to stay longer in the cold,
it should make its bid.
•* • #
“Struck Oil” will be produced on Satur-
day, June 19, at Sydney Royal... .Melbourne Royal
opera season closes on the 36th. “ Patience,” with
Miss Alice Barnett as the real original Lady Jane,
brought much mirth and money into the bouse
last week; and "Estrella” is putting in the final
fortnight. After that—drama. Desperate en-
counters between the two Y.’s—virtues and
villainy—with the latter knocked out in the last
act ...The Searelle-Hardlng Opera Company open
at Newcastle (N.8.W.) on the 19th, and upon that
date Wybert Reeve will commence a season at
Sydney Opera House, with the production of
Pinero’s comedy, “ The Rocket.”.... Harwood and
Thornton have entered into a partnership, and
will shortly re-produce " The Private Secretary ”
in Sydney Minnie Palmer will appear in “My
Sweetheart ” at Melbourne Bijou Theatre shortly,
under the managment of Majeroni and Wilson—
We are sorry to hear that Miss Maggie Knight
has again been so ill as to necessitate her tem-
porary retirement from the stage. Miss Marie
Brooke took the part of Hazel Kirke upon the
last two nights of its production, and performed
it to the satisfaction of the audiences assembled.
Miss Myra Kemble has also, at short notice, taken
the part allotted to Miss Knight in “In His Power.”
We wish the latter lady a speedy recovery to
health There were “ructions” at a certain
Sydney theatre on Thursday night last. As usual,
a woman at the bottom of all the trouble, and she
is not a widow The Victoria Theatre, New-
castle, is engaged by the festive Lynch family for
their return visit to (we quote Alfred), “ the
coaly city.” Thursday, 17th, is the first night of
their brief sojourn there....On Thursday night,
June 17th, the hilarious and charitable people of
Sydney will be allowed an opportunity of gratify-
ing their dual inclination by attending a compli-
mentary benefit to the Leichhardt sufferers at the
Alhambra Music Hall. Frank Smith and the
members of the Standard Brewery Fire Brigade
are organising the affair.
King Ludwig, of Bavaria, we hear, has
now drowned himself. If we could have as good
a time as he had for SO years we would not mind
doing the same.
It is only luck, of course, but people are
beginning to remark the extraordinary run of
the fickle goddess enjoyed by a certain Sydney
bonlface in connection with the big sweeps. The
dolts who keep these things going are just now
thinking it is time he stayed out and gave someone
else a show.
It was cabled last week that Lord
Salisbury had entertained a lot of Austra-
lians at his famous seat, Hatlield-house. A
Frenchman, who claims to be a frequent
guest at Lord Salisbury’s house, has re-paid his
host by making “ copy ” of the entertainments for
a Paris journal. To us in Sydney who are just found-
ing a nobility, the information comes opportunely.
Potts Point—listen 1 At 9.00 every morning, ser-
vices are held in the chapel of the mansion. . . ,
A chaplain is attached to the mansion. . . .
Lord Salisbury is punctual. . . . Breakfast—no,
that’s a slip—“ the first dSjeuner ” takes place at 10
a.m. . . . There are no special places—you sit
where you like. ... On entering, a stiff for-
mal bow is exchanged with Lord and Lady Salis-
bury, and conversation never becomes general.
If a guest receives a bow, or two or three words a
day from Lady Salisbury, it is considered quite a
distinction. iSote this: no wine is served at
breakfast—a concession to John Davies, no doubt.
Then follows luncheon, which is of the same wildly
sportive nature. The fun expands into the boister-
ous mirth produced by lawn-tennis. No woman is
expected to sew—it’s bad form. . . . 7 p.m.:
Dinner. Gentlemen in full dress—ladles in ball
toilet with fiowers and diamonds—servants in blue
breeches, silk fiesh-coloured stockings, buckled
shoes, blue waistcoat, and black coat. The valets
de chambre, major domo, and sub-major domo are
all in full uniform. N.B.—We believe the Sydney
Lancers got their idea of a uniform from the last-
named. Lord and Lady S. sit at the centre of the
table, facing. The guests sit where they like, only
not next to the hosts unless asked. After dinner
ladies clear out, and men, If they can, linger over
the wine. But Salisbury don’t encourage the
habit—it costs money. There are never less than
40 persons at table—not counting the flunkies. So
vou see, the life of a nobleman is not a happy one.
Still, in spite of this warning, our aspiring colo-
nists will drift into their ranks. They can’t help it;
it’s the true nobility of their nature, inherited
from some 40,000 ancestors of mixed origin, urging
them on. There’s Sam Wilson—and our friend
Henniker—how can they help it? It’s as much
their mission to be lords as it is ours to be
butlers.
Q. A. Sala has been saying some rather
spiteful things about the worship of muscle in
these colonies. The following ad. from an English
sporting paper might provide him with the text
for a home sermon on the same subject: “Head
master of a flourishing school could receive one
or two boys, promising cricketers, at 30 guineas a
year.” At this rate the old maxim will have to be
altered to—“ First teach your child cricket, after
that teach him what you will.”


Mb. Thompson moved - That, in the option of this House, the and honor of this House
will in a great measure be conserved by jty taking steps, as far as this House is enabled to do so, to /
£>ir John Robertson ; None of
the men who in thi§ colony had
left footprints behind them hath
been cold water men." (“Hear.
hear.”) fIUHBIHHI
1! / il" 1 \J- l '\
1 ta z* c- i _
j £ \
u vL V\^>\
to <f M
*■ yM\.
& 1 J <Jt* .
o %.
“ i 1
04
fci
ca © 1
'“TV
iff f\f 3 HM£|m
_ I\o O W 1 -
tea 77
ONLY A
ĥ
ħ
\pl
Sdene; Refreshment Room of the ’Ouse
Hon. Member for RumtiFudgef : “ I say,. Bill, what is
the meaning of this here move of Thompson’s ? ”
Hon. Member for Brewrumbidoery • “It means this
here for one thing : the day that there move becomes a law (if p
ever does), there's a-go mg to bt a vacancy in the electorate of
Brewrumbidgery ! ”
Imaginary portrait of
the “ lady ' who said
“ What a nice place the
’Ouse would be if it wasn’t
for the refreshment-room upstairs.’ 1
yiif ffj£
GfckrfjJj tie (fettle
l^
- . —— (g>— — * ,
fak
ti
e^f-yv^ff si
The Thompsonian Tempest in a Tea-pot.


BE WARE!
Unprincipalled persons, Jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on tne fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of intelligence knows that Yile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissus of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing I It is ‘your
money and your life’’with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subj ected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be all it is
represented by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for the overstrained
nerves.
We know Hop Bitters are above and
beyond all as a nutritious tonic and curative.
Genuine made by Am. Oo. Read thoroughly the
Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonies.
About Addresses.
Lord Cabington has accepted the invitation of
the Albury Agricultural Society to be present at
their annual show in September, and there is the
rumble of preparation in Albury, for it will be the
biggest day they have bad there since the railway-
opening. It is due to Albury that the Governor
should visit it, and after all the speechifying and
hand-shaking with aldermen and aborigines at
Grafton, and such places, it is due to His Excellency
to see Albury, and associate with whites for
awhile, and push his patrician proboscis into a few
pints of the divine beer brewed by the mayor of
that town. But for the infliction—lnevitable out
here, it seems—of irflated and "saggy” addresses
without or e grain e f sense or interest in them, we
have no doubt his Excellency will have a goed
time of it in the Federal hamlet—City, we mean.
Why will not someone with authority assault these
presentees of addresses, and establish a healthy
precedent ? A delightful experience for one who
has just come a long journey, who is tired to
death and thirsty—who is thirsty, d’ye hear?—to
listen to a lot of stereotyped mag, and reply in
equally original chat, for a few hours, before he
can get a square drink. We remember with a
holy joy, how confusion once fell upon a whole
town of address-presenters of the most con-
firmed and dangerous class, and retribution over-
took it. The town was in Bulgaria, and the
cccssion was that of the visit of the Duke of Edin-
burgh. He was expected to arrive at noon,
and a formidable address was drawn up on behalf
of the council by the caretaker of the local re-
serve, who was known to have a large brain, and
was further suspected of a lot of things. This
address was revised by the Presbyterian clergy-
man and duly paised for presentation. The day
came. A bhzing day in January with the glass
about 105’ in the shade. An hour before the tme
the place was filled with people in their best black
things, although the wind was blowing at the rate
of 60 miles an hour, and the dust was distinctly
noticeable. The council—with the Mayor at their
head holding the addiesses ready to level at a
moment’s notice-the Oddfellows, the holy Hiber-
nians even, ana everything t»at could be organ-
ised were there. Across the main street was the
usual arch with “Welcome ” on it, and beside this
was a dais—erected at a cost of £6o—on which
were the school-children, it. charge ot the teacher,
ready to sing " God Save the Queen.” From half-
past 11 till half-past 3 the populace waited
in the fiery heat, but the Sailor Prince came not.
The gum-leaves and flowers of the arch had
withered, the flags hung down like dusty bran-
bags, and the town els rk had already been kcked
up on a charge of drunkenness and high-treason
for more than one hour. The situation was be-
coming desperate. The children were d» zed
with the sun, and it was whispered that
the P.M. had said “Damn the Prince I” in
a sincere undertone. Then all at once the
exhausted scouts on a neighbouring hill waved
their arms frantically, and it was known that the
Jook was coming. Everybody shook the dust off
bis ruined togs, and the Mayor cleared his throat,
and set his head well back. The outriders ap-
peared, then the equipage of the Prince. He was
to be the guest of a gentleman who lived about
six miles out of the town, but was to be received
and “addressed” by the council first. As the
catriage drew near, the Hon. Elliot Yorke was seen
to whisper to H.R.H., and that royal person fixed
his eyes on the address in the Mayor’s hand, and
cried “Yaas— bal Jawve! Immense! Tell the
dwivahl” Eliot told the driver something, and
the chariot, which was just being surrounded by
the council, dashed frantically on, and scattered
acres of dust over everybody. The populace
were aghast, but the fact was plain. The Prince
had “passed” on addresses for that day, and was
permanently off I But the schoolmaster was not
to be euchred. He gave the word, and the chil-
dren struck up. Then the Mayor cast the address
in the dust and rushed up the dais steps, and hit
the schoolmaster a blow in the left ear that echoed
with a hollow flap for many a league, and precipi-
tated him headlong into the crowd. Then one
councillor, who was a farmer, told another coun-
cillor, who was a butcher, not to put his gory bull
into that gory lucerne paddock of bis again; did
he think he had a gory fool to deal with ? And the
councillor who was a butcher, said in reply that he
did think so, and was prepared to prove it on his
gory carcase, and shilt his gory nose, and flush ttie
town drains with his gory gore. Whereon they
“fit.” Then an enthusiastic Republican climbed
up the arch to tear down the floral “ welcome,”
and succeeded in also breaking bis leg in his
descent. That night the town clerk's wife ex-
pressed the opinion, in the presence of assembled
persons, that the Mayoress was a “ dowager” and
a “trollop,” and an action for defamation was
floated. And the schoolmaster sued the Mayor for
assault, and the inspector of nuisances (who was
the farmer s son-in-law) sued the butcher for hav-
ing unclean premises, and the bull appeared in the
main street and charged the Presbyterian minister
who escaped by means of prayer and legs, and the
caretaker of the reserve went on the drink and
got the horrors, and the carpenter who built the
dais sued the who e council for work and labour
done, and the sound of litigation has been in that
hapless town ever since. We just mention these
things to show the Albury people what may come
of an address. We have a sort of paternal interest
in the remote little town, and we entreat the
hi ay or to let the unhappy peer down lightly in
the way of addresses.
Bullockdriverese.
Another outrage on the liberty of the Australian
subject ia announced from the Far North, a land
where the Caucasian seems really to be played
out. Up in those tropical wilds a police magis-
trate has initiated a crusade against profanity,
and he commences to fulfil his mission by lining
an unfortunate carrier £5 for making use of Old
Testament language. Such a course of action can-
not be too strongly condemned. It is taxing the
absolute necessaries of life, for the bullock-
puncher, like Balaam, the son of Beob, lives
by cursing, and consequently he must curse for a
living. There have been carriers, we believe, who
tried to get on by quoting Homer and Tennyson
at their cattle, and then as things grew trouble-
some, they would gradually advdime to Sanscrit
and ancient Egyptian (both very good languages
on an emergency), and fling cuneiform inscriptions
at their teams, and sling in whole passages from
the Vedas and the writings of Confucius; but
they invariably had to descend to the good old un-
revised version in the end if they wanted to
make decent time on a long journey. Even the
new Bible is not equal to the occasion, for an Aus-
tralian bullock cares no more about Sheol than a
bison does for Henniker Heaton’s mission from
the Mauritius. Bullockdriveieae is a language by
itself, and it has a great mission to fulfil in Aus-
tralia. It is not the conventional tongue of our
great cities, but belongs rather to the solitary
plains of the West, where it mingles plaintively
with the sweet music of the paddymelon and the
emu. And the men who use it are a very different
class from the exquisites who do the block on a
summer afternoon. Their clothes bear no trace
of the fashionable Sydney tailor; they do not get
them made to measure with an extra pair of pants
thrown in; and they themselves are the lineal
descendants of John the Baptist, for they are so
many voices yelling in the wilderness, and bidding
all whOj-kear them come and be d- d. And the
words of the bullock-driver are something for
James Anthony Froule to make a note of, when
he calls upon an adult heifer to “ come up,” and
wants to know why the crimson (future con-
dition of unspeakable woe, sadness, and perpetual
oblivion, where there is wailing and gnashing, &c.
—for full particulars see Matthew xxii, 13) he
does not respond to the request; or, again, when he
summons the off-sider to steer half a point to the
north-east to avoid the stump on the lee
bow, under penalty of getting his scarlet
horn scattered to the other side of re-
mote eternity. What an Australian landscape
would be in the absence of the bullock-driver, it
is hard to imagine—a mere arid waste without a
single refreshing sign of civilisation to cheer and
elevate the mind. His voice is the nearest approach
we have to the song of the turtle which echoed
throughout the land of Judah in the spring time
of joy; his boots are the embodiment of the idea
of manly independence; his shirt, if hoisted on a
pole in front of a serried line of Australian
bayonets, would be the very type of a flag of free-
dom ; and his hat is a poem. And the man himself
can only be compared to the lily of the valley, for
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like him,
and could not have purchased such habiliments as
his with all the gold in the great cantata store
which he built in Jerusalem. As to the bul-
Icck-driver’s morals, they are uncertain and
transitory to the last degree. He is profane, as
already mentioned; he has no distinct ideas on
the subject of tenderness to animals; he is so
thoroughly armour-plated within, through long
indulgence in rum, that he could swallow a ten-
penny nail without winking, but he is a good
fellow none the less; and when the brass band
gees prior to the final fall of the curtain, he will
drive his team in triumph through the golden
gate, while many a bloated K.C.M G. is pulled up
outside and cross-examined as to his land syndi-
cates and railway contracts, and finally told to go
down the steps and take the first door on the left
and fall the rest of the way. And this is the being
whom aa Australian magistrate desires to fetter
with the trammels of an effete civilisation 1 When
conventionalism has advanced a little further, the
bullock-puncher will probably be ostracised be-
cause he does not wear a white choker and swallow-
tail in the evenings.
In a Queensland coast town, a young
woman with several children and a total income
of la. 6d per week applied to the local Benevolent
Society for relief. A clerical atroob y, to whom the
case was referred, hunted up her past life, and,
finding she had once “ gone wrong,” the applica-
tion was indignantly refused. Of such is the
kingdom of Heaven.
rf'oor Walts has not altogether a good
time. He went to a theatre lately while the Court
was in mourning for some German cousin. The
Queen heard this, sent for H.H.H., and gave it
well to the lad. As he is only 45 years of age, it is
only right that he should submit to his mother’s
corrections. The play that he witnessed was
“ Faust had he been in some of his old haunts
we fancy her Majesty might not have heard of it.
Wednesday, 9bh June, marked the festival
of Sher-boc-ous, a most important occasion which
seems to be,very much neglected in Sydney. On
this occasion some years ago the recent Moses re-
ceived the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai,
and several days afterward he broke the whole
lot, lire date is remembered chiefly from the
fact that the 7th was washing-day in the camp of
Israel, which gave the prophets a chance to put
on his other shirt before he started.
In every bush town there is a boozers’
pub. In a far Western town, out of £4OO of scrub-
cutters’ money (paid away as the pleasant game is
stopped by the rain) one landlord received £3OO.
and he now talks of going up King-street owing to
falling off of “ good drinking men.” But, be it
known that not a man was locked up until he bad
only just a fine in his pocket. This is considerate,
and it is needless to state that the publican is an
ex-policeman, and universally respected by the
foorce.
She was a burlesque actress, and on the
birthday of, not mine nor yours, nor his nor hers,
but s’mother fellow’s offspring, she took that
child to a shop to buy her a doll that spoke. Dolls
were produced. When squeezed they one and all
cried: “Mammal” “These dolls,” said the lady,
rising with a blush, “ are most immoral.” “ Great
Scott, madam I ” replied the shopman. “ Immoral,
how so ? ” “ They say ‘ mamma,’ ” answered the
lady as she left the shop. “ Just think how that
would sound before the servants and the gentle-
man I am going to be married to. Why haven’t
you got dolls which say ‘ Auntie ?’ Come on, my
niece 1” And a virtuously indignant mother and
her daughter sought the seclusion of the street.
We read that the actuary of the Savings
Bank at Cardiff (England) has passed away from
this vale of tears, and his books now show the
usual shortage of £37,000. This is the result of 30
y ears’ industry and strict attention to business on
the part of the corpse. The moral is that it is best
after all that such Institutions are compelled to
hire an erring mortal to take charge of the cash.
If they could have secured the services of the
cherubim or the terrapin to run that bank, the
celestial visitants would have been able to em-
bezzle money until the Day of Judgment. It is
only when a man is dead that they find him out in
Cardiff, and then it is no use to set the police on
his track The odour of carburetted hydrogen
may supply them with a due to bis last resting-
place, but it does not help them to find the cash.
“I‘m the—aw—Mayab of this place,” said
a pompous-looking party to the bell barngiug
Lynch Company s doorkeeper, in a certain town
out West, and then he fell back a step, and
beckoned to a stout, red-laced lady and four
gawky girls to come up and enter into the king-
dom of the deadheads. But the Janitor, feigning
simplicity, whispered into the Jenolan Caves of
the mayoral ear: “ Tbat’ll be all right, sir. You
just step down to that little box, and pay your 15
bob, and then I’ll pass you in, and not say a word
about it. We’ve all got our own little troubles in
this world, sir.” An hour later, and that Mayor
was seated in the broad but bilious bosom of his
family, drafting a motion to the effect that, tor
the future, the School of Arts committee (of
which he was a member) refuse to let their hall to
anv travelling shows, except escaped nuns, ex-
priests, or Salvation Army meetings.
Dear Bulletin,— You are all making a
rumpus about the scarcity of work in Sydney
and Adelaide despite the fact that there are
untried industries and well-known employments,
which only require cheek and patience, here in the
bush. In the Warrumhungle Mountains they be-
lieve in the diviniag-rod or willow-stick. It costs
nothing, and they give £lO if you point out where
to sink for water and a bonus of £lO when it is
struck. The capital required is a small forked
stick—but don’t overdo it, they don’t want more
than 1500 soothsayers. Again, a certain publican
sends his wife out “ on her ear ” when she is tipsy,
and she loses her false teeth. The reward is £1 for
finding them, and the game is played twice a week.
Also and likewise, a squatter’s wife gives £5 for
the recovery of her lost poodle (average once a
month). Why be unemployed? why poor?—
Scotty The Wbxnkleb.
Mrs. Gladstone, it is sad to read, is losing
her memory, ard frequently, on coming home to
dinner, her husband finds none has neen ordered,
and is obliged to go out to some club or restaurant.
She wes always careless in her toilet, but on her
last visit to the Queen, at Windsor, she excited
some wonder and amusement by coming down to
dinner with a substitution of a grotesque com-
bination of shawls and other frippery for tne body
of her drees, which she could not find, but which
her maid had pinned inside the skirt for fear of
her forgetting it. This, of course, comes to us via
America.
v ieutenant Greely, of Arctic fame, is ex-
tremely pious and prayerful. Lieutenant Ray,
another noted U.S. explorer, is quite the reverse.
They recently met at Washington, and fell to dis-
cussing their experiences in the North Sea. “I
suppose,” said Ray to Greely, “ that you kept up a
steady stream of prayer through all those terrible
days. You believe in the efficacy of prayer?”
“ Indeed I do. Every moment of the day I found
strength and consolation in sending up prayers to
heaven.” ‘‘Well,” replied Ray, ‘‘lswore like a
trooper the whole time I was in the North. I
damned the cold, the lee, the foed, the govern-
ment, my men, and myself, and brought the whole
cf my party home alive, while you lost nine-
tentbs of yours. Can you explain this ? ”
Mr. Justice Higinbotham has given a
Judgment in the supreme Court, Melbourne,
which effects all lovers of threepenny drinks in a
very important degree. Mr. Joel B. Wolfe, of
Aromatic Schiedam Schnapps fame, sued Mr. D.
G. E. Alsop, who also sold schledam schnapps
(Burke’s), for infringing his trade-mark. The
Judge gave his decision in favour of the plaintiff;
the original schnapps are once more in possession
of the field and the new brand is sent into outer
darkness. But law as well as Justice must be paid
for, and the suit, which has been dragging its slow
length along for three years, has cost the plaintiffs
over £2OOO. Yef enterprise must prevail in the
end. It is reported from home that the proprietors
of Wolfe’s schnapps have offered Prince Bismarck
£lO,OOO for permission to paint an advertisement
on h.s bald head, where the wool has now com-
pletely given up growing. The man of iron, how-
ever, refused to entertain the suggestion, but it
might be worth trying the Khedive or Batterburg
who are not quite such bloated aristocrats as he.
The following paragraph is going the
rounds of the English Press:—“Mr. Gladstone
gives considerable uneasiness to his friends by h;s
active resumption of his old dangerous habit of
entering into conversation on his walking home at
night, which is his habit, with the unfortunate
women whom he may meet. He carries usually
several copies of a pathetic story of a Magdalen
of this order, which he distributes with some pious
auxiliary observations of his own to these fallen
angels as he goes along. This habit, of course,
subjects him to all manner of exaggerated gossip
and to much risk of unpleasant adventures. Some
30 years ago, when engaged in one of those refor
matory exploits, he was subjected to a vigorous
blackmailing assault, which, however, he resisted
with much manliness and courage, and brought
the perpetrators to punishment.” This, cf course,
is an artful Tory libel. In the Conservative clubs,
it is no secret, the venerable Premier is accused of
being a devotee of practices which are too infam-
ous to be mentioned even in statute-law.
The differences which were expected, are
said to have already sprung up between the beau-
tiful wife of Earl de Grey, the historic Gladys,
Lady Lonsdale, and her lord. Her first strong
attachment was for the Hon. Luke White—she
married Lonsdale for bis title and wealth—of the
Guaid?, eldest son of Lord Annesley, who was
regarded as the handsomest man in London, and
their relations were of such a charader during the
lifetime of Lord Lonsdale, who was absent gener-
ally from England in his yacht, tha,t had her child
been a son instead of a daughter the Lonsdale
family would have disputed its legitimacy. After
her husband’s death White refused to fulfil his
promise of wedding her, and, in the vexation of
the moment, she engaged herself to Edgar Vin-
cent a very brilliant and handsome man, but
possessed of no fortune beyond his salary in the
fiscal bureau in Egypt. As she is of boundless
extravagance, the folly of such an alliance soon
became apparent to both, and finding Lord de
Grey browsing around her tent in the Riviera, she
seized him and drew him into an engagement.
The Ripons were entirely opposed to the match,
but as she is an only child finally assented, and
made a heavy settlement.
The idea is gaining ground that when
Hanlan and Beach meet on the Thames Hanlan
will win. The Illustrious Mr. Charles Lett writes
from London“ I have always held the opinion
that for some reason or other you did not see the
true Hanlan in Sydney, and I shall be very much
out in my estimate if this is not proved before
three months are over our heads. I have, alas,
only too solid grounds for knowing how good the
Canadian was (I can’t say is!) and no one can per-
suade me that any man could walk out of a black-
smith’s shop into a wager boat, and after a few
months’ practice—late in life tool-make an exhi-
bition of the most elegant and scientific sculler
who ever sat in a boat.” Charles adds that until
he sees Matterson shape better he will never be-
lieve that all the Sydney men have not been over-
rated ; and he says that when Beach and Hanlan
meet there will be plenty of money wagered on
Hanlan. We hear that certain Australian book-
makers are preparing for an expedition to the old
country in anticipation of this big sculling event,
and, from all we know of Mr, Haitian, his career
in Sydney, and theiclrcumstances attendant on his
departure, we very strongly advise no one to bet a
shilling on either man, as there is no guarantee
whatever that the race will be rowed on its merits.
Cocaine, the new drug which is to partly
supersede chloroform, has apparently a great future
before it. Its mission, according to a medical
journal, is “to promote anaesthesia of a purely
local character,” or, to quote a familiar example,
if rubbed on the back of a larrikin it will enable
him to take his 50 with the “ cat ” amid a pro-
found and holy calm similar to that which per-
vades the bosom of an underdone pig after the
spirit has passed away. And at the same time his
brain continues active, and even while the execu-
tioner—or whatever other member of the Ministry
may be on the job—is perspiring in his efforts
to raise the prisoner’s hide, the latter can
busy himself with plans for “getting even
with the bloke wot got him into this
’ere scrape.” If rubbed on the conscience of
a mining-syndicate this drug produces effects of
an eminently satisfactory character; and it is
specially recommended for external use by all in-
tending passengers on the A.S.N. line. Bank
depositors should apply it Inwardly as a means of
soothing their agony when the horsey manager
skips with the securities; and it is particularly
adapted for the use of those who keep their
accounts in institutions whore the cashier is a
humble though sincere believer in the Lord. To
Young Men’s Christian Associations it Would be
absolutely invaluable as a means of soothing the
spiritual pangs of members when the heathen rage
around them and the people imagine a vain thing
—see the Dnrevised Version; and, in fact, its pos-
sible uses are so numerous that it must of neces-
sity rank second only to whisky or “ dog’s nose ”
among the blessings which a merciful Providence
has conferred upon mankind.
Mrs. Adelaide Bartlett, lately acquitted,
in England, of the murder of her husband, re-
ceived 17 offers of marriage during the first week
of her release, two of which were from clergymen.
At latest dates she was receiving them at the rate
of about six a day. As she is said to be very hand-
some, with enchanting eyes, and a dot, which to
this base world is even more attractive, her matri-
monial possibilities would seem to be practically
Illimitable. The popularity of a woman acquitted
of murder is always, for some inscrutable reason,
evidenced by heaps of offers. Madeline (smith,
the heroine of the great Scotch poisoning case,
received about 300 offer!, including several from
the Inevitable parson. Ultimately she married ones
of her clerical admirers, and has lived with him
ever since in a stylish house in Bedford-square,
London. This bit of news, which we get from an
English paper, seems to dispose of the story that
Madeline married a Dunoliy (Victoria) brick-
maker. From all this it would seem that the dis-
tressed spinster may find experiments with chloro-
form a stepping-stone to matrimony, if only the
sudden and inexplicable death of some near rela-
tion will occur. Of course there is the cff-chance
that a Jury will bring in a wrong verdict, but even
men it is possible the average spinster would
rather waltz upon space if only she were
allowed to wear something nice on the occasion,
than survey life from the dreary altitude of the
shelf of celibacy.
Says a Yankee writer: —“ On April 9, while
I was thinking about the chances of Sullivan and
Smith battling for the championship, 1 was sur-
prised by receiving a visit from H. M. Johnson,
£ i j C f? am lf^ on sprinter, who won the great Shef-
field handicap in England last March and who had
just returned safe from England with George
Smith, the sprinter of Pittsburg, who also some
years ago won a Sheffield handicap. Johnson’s
victory was really a very popular one, as
several English attempts were n ade to Jeo-
pardise his chance. On the first day, I be-
lieve, he w<>s so much hustled about and
annoyed that it was considered advisable to
have his person protected by eight policemen, four
or j °u the second day, when he
wished to have a stroll over the grounds during
the interval allowed for the final heat. Many who
had them money on Edge would have injured him
R they dared. No one, however, attempted to
molest him, but the sight was a strange one to
me, having never seen anything of the liae be-
lore. It was asserted by many that he had been
interfered with while running in the first heat by
one of the peds„ and, if true, the attempt to
knock him out was certainly a most reprehensible
one. Johnson deserves great credit, not only for
winning the first time of asking, ana from a marK
that was not at all in his favour, but for the great
gameness he displayed. A more timid man would
easily have been vanquished were ho ever so fleet
of loot. Johnson is an exceedingly well-built
young fellow, standing, as be told me himself, 6ft.
lain, in height, and weighs 2161 b. in his ordinary
apparel, hair-play England for ever. And yet
they have the coolness to ask Sullivan to step
across the herring pond and be knocked out by—
Birmingham roughs, if Smith couldn’t do it.
The great Bartlett (London) poisoning
case is thus caustically summed up by Vanity
Fair:— “ The story is in every way a strange one*
Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett had lived for many years a
life of idyllic ease and happiness, interrupted only
by an occasional twinge of toothache on the part
of the husband, and once by the pangs of child-
birth on the part of the wife; when, in an evil
hour, they made the acquaintance of the Reverend
Mr. Dyson, an impecunious Dissenting minister,
endowed with insinuating manners and a fine
appetite for dinner. Having made a favourable
impression on the Bartletts, he was engaged to
fomplete Mrs. Bartlett's education, and it is only
cair to him to say that he certainly seems to have
taught her a thing or two. The holy man wrote
her verses and loving letters, and kissed her—all
no doubt with the purest Intentions in the world;
and the delighted husband, fascinated by his dis-
interested and affectionate behaviour, not only
made him his executor, but also settled on
him the reversion of his widow. As, however,
Mr. Bartlett did not always conduct himself
subsequently with the delicacy which one
would expect from a grocer who has con-
signed his wife to another man, Mrs. Bartlett
was compelled to employ chloroform to keep him
quiet. But in order to obtain the chloroform she
was obliged to employ the intervention of Mr.
Dyson, and that sagacious divine, when he saw a
criminal trial looming in the distance, endea-
voured, with commendable prudence and
thoroughly clerical forethought, to slip his own
neck out of the noose by slipping the lady’s int§
it. At all events, it is owing to no negligence on
the part of her lover that Mrs. Bartlett has escaped
the gallows. In whatever light we look at it, Mr.
Bartlett’s death defies explanation. The theory of
suicide appears impossible. He suffered, it is
true, from toothache, from a strange disorder
which he described as a worm crawling in his
throat, and he was unable to sleep unless MrsT
Bartlett held his toe; but on the e vening of "his
death he was in better spirits than usual, and"a
man who is in the humour for self-destruction is
hardly likely to order a large haddock for
breakfast the next morning. On the other
hand, it is equally hard to accept the hypothesis of
murder, the medical evidence having shown that
the administration of chloroform during sleep
would be a work of great delicacy even when at-
tempted by an experienced hand. lam sure I
don’t know what to make of it; but I know this—
that if ever I marry, I’ll be chloroformed if l’i*
have a tame devildodger sneaking about the
house, wolfing up all the food he can find, educat-
ing my wife when I am out of the way, and run-
ning out to buy things for her from the chemist.
It is said that Mr. Dyson has sent in his resigna-
tion to the Wesleyan body, and that he is going to
study for the law. I don’t think he could have
possibly selected a profession in which he would
be more likely to succeed ; and his conduct
throughout the whole affair has shown that he is
thoroughly conversant with the most important
of all laws—the First Law of Nature.”
IN MEMORIAM.
[STRICTLY ORIGINAL.]
Alas! alas I my nanny’s dead,
I lost her this day year;
She ate my neighbour's rose-tree bare,
He shot her in the ear.
Since then my earthly path is dark,
And dark, too, is my tea—
My neighbour’s roses came again,
But nan ne’er came to me.


It is not our custom, as a rule, to enter into
agricultural matters in these columns, and though
•we occasionally attempt to cultivate the field of
human intelligence, we generally refrain from
burying our intellect in compost heaps or stirring
up the olfactory depths of subsoil drainage. Mr.
Squire W. Pye, of Rocky Mall, Parramatta,
N.S.W., has, however, succeeded in dragging us
from our retirement, and exciting a languid in-
terest in the matter of irrigation. That gentleman
has succeeded in raising an abnormal crop of
lemons and oranges by turning the waters of
affliction upon the surface of our temporary so-
journing place, and at the same time removing
with the rake of friendship and sympathy the
Mayw Yoang has tried hia hand at picturesque writing Ft weuld apy
pear that hia honor “ visited the Jenolan Caves from June 1 to 3, and
after spending the host portion of three days in these caves, I must con-
fess that they are the most extraordinary things of the kind I have ever
■eon I believe, that, without doubt, they are not to be excelled for their
beauty and the rarity of stalactite and stalagmite formation. ”
And yet hia honor thinks there is room for improvement. Not j
that he would condemn the caves and have thorn pulled down /
altogether, 3'ou understand, but slightly, modified they /
would do very well. 11
“ A.n interest should be taken, I think, by either the Minister
of Works, or of Mines, or whatever department it may be, in.
making better facilities for people visiting.the caves to see them
comfortably and more easily." For instance, the stalagmite*
might be upholstered making comfortable seats,
grate fires laid on, and boll wire*
Kith a bar, &c., &c.
“A* a suggestion, also, it does appear to me |
that it would be an advantage if the various caves I
should be made continuous, so that no return over fl
the same tracks would be necessary ; and if, as I
suggest, an occuate suivey be made, I think it
quite possible that entrances that would
carry out this idea might be made in
various places from the outside."
Happy thought—doors !
sjT^^
Some of the “ stalactites and stalagmites had
been broken away,” laments the Mayor, who
goes on to suggest that the Government ought
to make repairs. \ »>.\
prs'
Ab lovvM^
•plpfel
\ M
/J*A
> ■' 1 ■■ <>«.-
“ We had a good deal of ellmbing to get to the Bride « Onamber, and
a wire ladder to other caves which we could not mount, it not being safe
to trust ladies up ft wire ladder DOft,. m height." Then how does thq
bride get up f
“ There are plentjjof
ignorant and foolish
visitors who would
break off ami carry
away portions that would injure
the eaves for ever, little thinking
or caring whether they do or do
not spoil the beautiful ’effects for
all the Visitors that coma 'after
them. 11
||||ps4 'iO u *c'
|||| M &''
“ I think, also v that no smoke of any bind should bo allowed in the
caves, as I noticed that in felNwearlier-discovered oaves a great deal has
been done to discolour and to sped the pure and clear apj>earaiicc ot all
♦ho peculiar and varid crystalline formations." Doubtless a coat of
whitewash or p;p©-clay would accomplish wonders.
41 The practice of stupid, ignorant people marking and
wrrf.mp then- ignoble nances in places so conspicuous injure*
and deBte>ysTCebe«uty and renders those portions of tbs
place as vulgar as the people who do these things
Now, this sort of thing would be quite
another matter, rather ornamental than
otherwise.
‘■On returning, we travelled by » con-
veyance the wlioie distance to Mount Vie-
torm- and the road, although a lutle: r«rogh»l
places, was generally very-good.”
Mayor Young and his account of the Jenolan (Fish-River) Caves.
weeds which spring up to choke the finer emo-
tions of the human soul. This is poetry. In
other words, he has raised a crop valued at £6OO
off three acres of ground (which have heretofore
only yielded £lOO worth of fruit) by exciting the
lean earth through the medium of irrigating
channels, and is growing suddenly ani painfully
rich as the reward of his enterprise. Tne only
other irrigation item at present is supplied by Mr.
Thompson, member for West Maitland in the
N.S.W, Assembly, who recently moved that
liquors should be sold In the House only during
meal-hours, hia object being to prevent bibulous
cornstalks floating their intestines in distilled per-
dition during at least 31 hours out of the 34. This
is hardly an irrigation item, however, as the hon.
gentleman desired rather to promote aridity and
make every legislator a sort of itinerant Sahara
than to create a verdant oasis in the desert of life.
The length of the meal-hour was not fixed in Mr.
Thompson’s motion, but we presume five minutes
would be enough. It would be hardly possible to
make it shorter, yet even in that brief period the
average Australian can get as “tight” as the strait
gate and much too unsteady to enter therein, so
that the good effect of the resolution would pro-
bably have been lost, even if it had passed upon a
division. In fact there are cases on record
in which men have drunk themselves into
Abraham’s bosom in much less than five
minutes, leaving a bereaved country to mourn
its irreparable loss. Old topers escape this
danger, for they spread their liquors over the
silent watches of the night and then rise and move
that the House (hie) should now be counted; these
men have a sort of internal Nilometer by which
they measure the rising tide of sorrow, and whan
they begin to feel that life is but an empty dream
they take up another member’s hat and leave.
But these are exceptions to the general rule, and
under the proposed system it is to be feared the
Legislature would only Be lively after dinner and
then would gradually sink into orofound hypo-
chondria while waiting for an opportunity to ob-
tain threepenn’orth of irrigation.
A week or two since a Melbourne
correspondent wrote us thus:—“l noticed
you had over 3000 mea at your review on
Queen’s birthday—some of them war-battered
veterans, too. who, no doubt, could show many a
scar got gallantly in withstanding the charge of
the furious-butting goats of the Soudan. Well,
overbore we had under 13)0 on the tented field—
there were no teats, by the way, except those used
by ginger-beer merchants and the higher order of
ice-cream men, but the ex prassion is picturesque
and ancient, therefore let it stand. I went there
in company with a gentleman who had obtained a
holiday from the morgue and another who will go
to his grave believing that he is the dead
image of the late Prince Imperial—a belief which
I was base enough to encourage as he set them up
every time. We had nothin" to pay to enter the
ground, so we stalked in wV.h an uncon trained,
and even haughty, air. The review had been
going on for some time, si we had to dodge
around considerably among a number of common
people, who did not seem to be in the slightest
degree impressed by our distinguished aopear-
ance, in oraer to get a sight of it. But—thank the
godsl-wc were ia time to see the Governor
pitched on his august head. He was galloping
gallantly up to the top of the field when his
bumble-footed charger stumbled and catapulted
him several yards away. When we saw tfiat per-
farmance we came to the conclusion that a horse
has no ideas of rank, and that Caligula must haae
been verv mad Indeed when he male his horse a
consul. Yet, who knows ? A consul was probably
as poor a thing as a C.M.G. in the days of Caligula.
His Excellency, however, sprung i&aily to the
saddle again, and the hearts of the assembled
thousands beat freely one® more. It taxes a lot to
kill a man who is drawing an income of £lO 000 a
year. The fusillading then began and sounded
exceedingly like an explosion of Chinese crackers.
I had been reading the leading articles in the
Melbourne papers for some time and noticed
the defiant, not to say aggressive, tone they
took towards Russia, and I had expected to see
something to justify, or, at least, excuse, all this
furious journalism, when I went out to look at
the Victorian army in battle array. T came away
with the conclusion that one company of
Cossacks would eat the whole crowd at one
meal, and then get up hungry. Tne only thing
terrible about these military marionettes was the
band. That was, indeed, a thing to make the
stoutest heart quake. On the way home I noticed
these noble warriors marching by. The artillery-
men are soldierly-looking fellows, but the volun-
teers I Well, it seemed to me, being of a grotesque
turn of mind, litre a Dead March of Consumptives
from the hospital to the cemetery. It was curious
to Observe, too (when I compare them with Eng-
lish volunteer regiments I have seen), the easy
j )g-along-you re-as-good-as -1 - am, - and - several-
times better style the officers adopted towards the
men. This was, no doubt, a fine evidence of
fellow-feeling and democratic disregard of
rank, and might have delighted a republican
philosopher bat would have made a military
man curse till he was black in the face. There
was another thing that struck me about these
Victorian volunteers. They seem to be over-
weighted with brains. I observed that most of
them carried their heads downward and with
difficulty. They seemed, all of them, as though
melancholy had marked them, in several places,
l*jr her own. A good many of them were smoking,
some were chewing, amd, if I recollect aright, the
remainder were borrowing tobacco from the
others. An apparition with a cocked hat, mounted
on a raw-boned steed, and looking as if he wished
he were in bad, drew up suddenly in front of me
and asked me If 1 had a match. I gave him some,
and he lit his cigar and cantered away with an air
of being born in the saddle which was enough to
make one weep to sea. That was all I witnessed
and wanted to witness of the Victorian Grand
Army. If ever the Russians anchor outside the
Heads with belligerent views I intend to take the
city myself and hand it over to them for a percent-
age of the plunder.”


At the openiogofthe Indo Colonial Ex-
hibition the archbishop of Canterbury offered up
prayer, and sought to add Almighty God to the Hat
of influential patroos of the show. A pretty floe
thing. Indeed, and very little short of blasphemy,
for everybody who was in London during the
recent Fisheries’, Health, and Inventions Exhi-
bitions, knows the peculiar proceedings to which
a very large percentage of the visitors gave them-
selves over when the shades of night had fallen
upon the gardens. Not, perhaps, that there was
anything indecorous in anybody’s outward be-
yiEMPMW
The only o^iqikal
Cli|EiAVW|
\SHt5
1 VMICH Do (YOt o\J\\
WIELL I>RAKO
NO COMION WlfH
■)ANY HOUSE IK
(THE TRADE
MAy KELy
pr\oN\pr
V //Ajr^TiofY-
JV / "TEXy strictty ModERAIe
&
ej>.
%
%
O Ar
w lODIOD Rad- dot
7t\AJ) C-GcU/vA . yvru. OAAJb
(jOYSQjvJf
v &A |! l '
of lb Ryd'nty Pvhi'C
for (jpokf On (Rn(Lrncil'io/\
Jo wen. &■ @‘SC ant, snnf)io (7>v
jJ)iio/> to*- ''pO/vSmf _5 <7 '2-3.' >1a ' z' —N
/tßor<[
SiyppuHO
j}/A *ri lll
C L £ R^yMAs^T.)
I foti
* CooKif^
ts»
h
ĥ
(x svt /
tfWIax
'
PILK
%0 / 1 / H£K s 'Yhw <: i * up OK-fHCDSW
A Grave and Burning Question. —Dr. Creed’s N.S.W. Cremation Bill.
haviour; bn* the place was over-run with females,
who were neither the sisters, cousins, aunts, nor
wives of the decent British citizen, and to pe-
tition the Deity to cast an approving eye over the
whole affair was impudent and blasphemous. It
is a solemn fact that all these exhibitions after a
few weeks or months degenerate into place * of
evening entertainment not one whit more decent
than the Westminster Aquarium or the Trocadero
Music-hall—institutions which, we mourn to say,
are but too well known to all giddy colonials.
The powerful intellects that regulate the
Melbourne police force have struck a theory
which entirely accounts for the late flush of
burglaries in that wonderful city. They say that
the burglar flourishes when the weather is cold.—
that severe frosts are accompanied by a freshet of
robberies from the premisss. And why? The
jemmy-wielder Is a studious and observant man.
He knows that cold is conducive to sleep, and that
none are so susceptible to the wiles of the drowsy
god as the city policeman, so he watches his ther-
mometer, and when the mercury falls to a given
point, he sagely calculates that each policeman
slumbers in the most comfortable doorway on his
beat with the untroubled sleep of a little child.
Tnen the night-thief takes up his kic, and goes
forth in perfect security, and cracks the erib in a
cheerful offnamded manner. This idea came upon
the heads of the department all of a sudden like,
and its originality and intrinsic worth will be
apparent to the dullest. It imposes upon the
country the stern necessity of patenting a new
policeman, a policeman who is sent out with fly-
blistera on his shins, and a rat-trap hanging from
his ear to keep him awake.
Dear Bulletin,— Some things I have just
read about “Father” Chiniquy remind me that he
wasn’t by any means the founder of the converted-
from-Roman-Catholicism industry. When in New
York in ’69,1 frequented a saloon in Spring-street
kept by an Italian called Celia. (N.B.—His wine
was the best and cheapest I ever drank in a public-
house.) Every visitor was a foreigner (including
myself, a Scotchman), and they were nearly all
showmen of some sort. I noticed that one gentle-
man always sat alone, and was, besides being ex-
quisitely dressed, a perfect Adonis. One evening
he sat at my table, and, after a few remarks, I
asked him if he was a pro. He replied, “ Yes,” and
further stated that he was a converted Roman
Catholic. I enquired if that aided his business,
when tie informed me that it WAS his business.
“ Surely in the name of Papa Pius you can’t make
a livelihood out of that ?” “ Can’t I,” said he: "I
go down to the Eastern States and give a free
lecture on tbs evils of Catholicism, and then have
a voluntary collection to defray the ex.’s of my
mission, of which I am committee, treasurer, and
staff. They come to the lecture because itsis free.
They believe me because of my Italian accent, and
they ante-up because they are ashamed to see the
box in front of their noses and give nothing. I
never draw less than 4/Jdola. to 50dola. a night.”
That man became my fastest friend, and his wife
(he was a free-lover, too) was j ust the dead-spit of
one of the most beautiful Italian pictures of the
Madonna. I love the name of Mary, and I wept
when she fell out of a window and was dashed to
atoms (Evening News style). So you see it’s good
bia. to be a ’verted Papist.— Hiram Abiee.
England, in 1885, purchased 1,091,156,700
eggs, of which nearly four hundred millions came
from France, at a total cost of practically £3,000,000
sterling for all. Poultry also cost England con-
siderably over £500,000. In this case it is not that
forei#a produce eompetes with English farmers at
the advantage of underseifiug the home markets,
but for the simple reason that England nods not.
raise half enough to supply herselL To every 10
English eggs eaten, 19 foreign ones are consumed.
One of the largest co-OMrative stores in London
gave their commission for 359 J turkeys for the
last Christmas season to a foreign contractor, as no
English dealer would undertake to provide them.
Were the Homs supply, twice as great as it is, it
might be able to keep out the French and German
and Belgian rivals, and keep a sum of £3,500,000 in
the country to the benefit of the trade and poor L*
England,


WHAT CAN CUriCURA. DO EOR BARY.
Everything- that is purify ing.beautifyicg. and
curative tor the akin and scalp the Cuticura
Remedies will do. Nothing- in medicine so agree-
able, so speedy, and so wholesome. Guaranteed
absolutely pure and safe by the analytical chemists
of the State of Massachusetts, whose certificates
accompany every package. For cleansing the skin
and scalp of birth humours, for allaying itching,
chafing, and Inflamation. for curing the first
symptoms of eczema, psoriasis, milk crust, and
other inherited skin diseases, Cuticura, the great
skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skm
beautifler, are infallible.
Wolfe's Schnapps possess all therequiaites
of a family medicine.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
ector of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally.
Letters written. The moat absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address :-313 George-street,
second floor.*
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time-
wfll give you a sound night’s rest.
Woman Items
Six things are necessary to matrimonial
bliss. Five of these are money, and the sixth is
good cookery.
‘ Oh, William, is that you,” she yelled
over the bannisters as he waKzed through the hall
at midnight. “Yes. Whcm else did you expect?”
The Bourke Watchman asks, “Why do
girls remain slrgle in Australia ?” We don’t know
unless it is because they don’t get married. 1
I he average age of mistresses in charge of
5th class schools in N.S.W. is 06% years. We never
saw one who confessed to more than half that
age,
A Rockhampton (y.) man committed eui-
cide because his wife died while he was drunk.
Do Rockhampton husbands expect their wives to
live for ever?
“I bless Eve for eating that apple,” she
said, as she stood before the mirror. “Why?”
“Because there is such a delight in trying on a
new dress when it fits well.”
It is whispered that a lady will run
against Ycoey Taylor, M.L.A. for Parramatta, at
next general election in N,S. W.—that is, of course,
provided an ungallant returning-offlcer
refuse the nomination-paper.
According to the French newspapers, uhe
sprain in Sarah Bernhardt’s right leg was caused
by her taking a false step while playing “Fe-
dora.” She is paying the penalty of growing
years. When she was younger false steps did not
hurt her a bit.
3STot over one woman in 1000 in China oan
read or write. A married man in that country
can, therefore, leave in his inside coat-pocket,
when he bends the garment to his wife to sew on
a button, a sweet-scented note beginning, “Dar_
lirg Bung-Lung,” and ending, “Your own
Yingie,” with only one chance in 1CC0 of being
found out.
Be rushed breathlessly into Juneerefresh-
ment-room on his way South and interviewed a
Hebe.” Got any fruit ?” "What sort, sir ? ” “Any
sort. Gimme a bob’s worth ; quick.” He collared
his parcel and made fcr the train, and, when well
cut of the station, found he’d got—great ScottI—
six lemons. That yonrg woman is a humorist,
and will get on.
We gather from the summing-up in the
celebrated Bartlett murder case that the Judge
was of opinion that if a woman will sit outside a
bed and hold a man’s tee until he goes to sleep her
conduct implies Jove, and that she has done her
duty to her husband. The S.M. Hebald man who
wrote Saturday week’s leader appears to have over-
looked this picturesque incident.
No one’s weak points were ever lost on
Disraeli. Thus, in writing of the obstinacy of
womankind he said:—“Take the example of my
wife. I had all the difficulty in the world to
induce her to range herself among the women of
thirty. At lergth she consented, but no power on
earth can, after an interval of twenty years,
induce her to loosen the connection.” Perhaps
the lady had heard of Alfred de Musset, and knew
that he posed as the high priest of a creed which
exalted the potent charms of la femme de trente
ans.
Sealing-wax is coming in again. But the
fashion Is to use a colour that will give a hint as to
the contents of the letter. Pink means congratu-
lation; white, an invitation to a wedding; and
blue, an offer of marriage. So it comes to pass
that the amorous youth who seals his letter with a
Rt>’o t nh of blue is as much engaged to the girl he
writes to as though he cast himself at her feet
and refused to rise unless the reply was favour-
able. No defence will hold against such proof.
Damages will be given in accordance with the
amount used.
At a rent-dinner on one ox tbeir estates
the Duke and Duchess of M happened to be
present, when a son of the soil appeared in a state
of great excitement. The duchess, inquiring the
cause of his distress, was told that, having come a
long distance, he had lost the rent on the way, but
would go back and look for it. A few days after
he appeared with the lost money. The duchess
tske d him where he found it, and was answered in
the following manner:—“ Well, you see, on my
way I stopped at the Banrigh stables to speak to a
friend. I took cut my pocketbook to gie him a
letter and must have dropped the money, for this
is hco I found it. Supposing his grace was the
stables and your grace the manure an’ I was the
rent. Weel, you see—” “ Yes, yes,” interrupted
her grace, quickly; “that will do. I perfectly
understand the whole affair.”
The luckiest man in Victoria, at present,
is farmer Booth. He didn't just miss the Ly-ee-
moon, neither did he win a raffle. He had £6O, a
wife, a baby, and a young man-servant, not so long
ago, but they have faded and fled. The man-ser-
vant was 23 years of age, and of poor but honest
parents. Mr. Booth, who is a trusting creature,
naively remarked that he does remember noticing
that the youth was a particular favourite with h;s
wife, who is 40, but he didn’t think she’d entice
him away like that. However, he wasn’t much of
a man-servant, and the child was teething, so
hubby’s glad she left him the farm, and when he
gets back that £6O he’ll feel quite resigned. What
MARGARET MATHER, Actress.
It is expected that this most popular lady will arrive in Sydney from New York by
the December mail.
loud enough. And, talking of that, one of the
most dislllusiocising facts we know about matri-
mony is that a young woman’s whispered
affirmative when the question is put toheris-if
she be not too shy to reply at all, leaving a blush
to give consent—like the sigh of a zephyr over a
bed of roses; and yet she can, six months after she is
married, be heard two blocks away calling her hus-
band hard names in a voice shrill enough to make a
steamboat whistle-pipe bunt with envy. Women
are dear creatures, but they would be a great deal
more so if they were born dumb.
little revenge he wanted he has got-she’s as old as
40, and he has proclaimed it to the world.
The Abbe Liszt, about whom we now read
so much in the English and Australian papers, was
to have been a Catholic priest, but the Pope would
not hear of it, and refused to ordain him. The
reason was that while young Liszt was preparing
for orders, his appearance and musical perfor-
mances turned the heads of all the girls in the
convent. One evening after devotions in the
chapel, he sat down to play, and so charmed the
audience that the sisters fell upon him and
covered him with what the French call “ warm
caresses.” The Holy Father hearing of this de-
cided that Liszt was not built for a celibate. It is
pretty much otherwise in Australia. Here the
young curate who possesses talents as a masher
finds them to be a distinct commercial advantage;
and even older parsons who turn the heads of
ladies of their congregation, are held in high re-
pute by all concerned except the bishop, and he
is not able to interfere. Potiphar would be badly
left at plenty of N.S.W. parishes.,
Mr. Purves, the Melbourne barrister, is
famous above all others for the manner in which
he browbeats witnesses in court. He is not famous
for much else except the possession of a rasping,
rusty voice that reminds one of nothing so much
as the sound made by a chain-cable in coming out
of a hawse-hole. The other day he had to deal
with some female witnesses who could not be got
to speak loudly enough to please him. This was a
noble opportunity for him to air his wit. He asked
one of them if she were a married woman- “Yes,”
she replied, in a still, small voice. “ Then,” said
the sarcastic Purves, “if you said ‘yes ’ no louder
than that I wonder you were ever married.” This
may be very smart, but we will bet if that small-
voiced woman were Mrs Purves her husband would
have little cause to complain pf her not speaking
Vanity Pair says lntelligence has
been received by a noble Scotch family that it is
the intention of the Prime Minister to abjure the
Protestant faith anl become a member of the
Church of Rome. This Intelligence was supposed
to be from a Catholic source, but came into the
hands of a Protestant, with the injunction that it
should on no account be disclosed until the ex-
piration of six months. Should this be a fact—
and there is good reason to believe that there is
something in it—it is quite clear that Mr. Glad-
stone’s apotheosis is at hand, and that his last
grand service to the Church of Rome is to be the
turning over of the kingdom of Ireland into the
hands of the Pope, who will work it for the benefit
of future generations.” The English Tories, who
are the most unscrupulous liars in the world, are
just now in a tight place, and are belching forth
even more mendacities than usual. “No Popery ”
would be as good as any other cry if it enabled
the landlord-interest to keep its fingers on the
windpipe of the people.
An interesting libel action was in full
b ast when the English mail left. As usual, there
was a woman in the case. She was a young girl of
decidedly prepossessing appearance, but of a virtue
below par. Some months ago she was accused of
stealing a gold ring from a London law-student,
and her unfortunate plight so moved the pity of
a lot of young recruits of the Devil’s army at the
bar, that they subscribed 3s. 6d. each for her
defence. One of the barristers, named Woodgate,
did not permit his charity to stop at two-and-six,
for, hearing that the girl wished to renounce evil
ways and return to her parents, he decided to pay
her fare, and sent a note to her while still in the
dock, asking her to call at his chambers between
3 and 4 that afternoon for the money—and probably
his advice, and blessing. Acting-judge Bdlin hear-
ing of the contents of the tetter, afterwards
wrote to the counsel who conducted the defence
asking whether Mr. Woodgate had retained him
on behalf of the beauteous Blanche. He added in
a subsequent letter, that although a barrister
might “ be ready to undertake the defence of a
prisoner whom he believed to be falsely accused
without fee or reward, yfet if counsel were per-
mitted to act ad libitum on this noble Impulse the
court might be frequently favoured with forensic
displays, not only on behalf of young women of
the town, be their personal charms what they may,
but for the benefit of housebreakers and other
prisoners charged with crime.” This constituted
the libel complained of. Probably Mr. Woodgate
will benefit however the verdict goes. The un-
successful attempt of Mr. Field in N.S.W. to ex-
tract anything from Judge Windeyer for an
alleged libel has been the means of putting that
forceful young barrister well forward in his pro-
fession, and the fact that the trouble in Wood-
gate’s case centres round a lovely woman should
not prevent him from getting the advantage of
publicity.
At the Consular dinner lately given at
Sydney in presence of Governor Carington, it was
pleasant to the uninitiated, after hearing of the
friendly relations existing between the Empire
and the world, to hear Mr. E. W. Moon, Consul for
Costa Rica, rise and vouch for the sympathy of
that warlike people with the peace aspirations of
the other Great Powers. We have, for some time,
had a suspicion in our minds that it is not Ger-
many but Costa Rica that has an eye on our lands,
and Mr. Moore’s speech goes far to confirm our
suspicions. Both nations talk peace, but work
underground. Both believe in the virtue of sur-
prises. We have placed implicit confidence in the
Melta. Age and Sydney D.T. to keep the Russians,
Germane, and French well under surveillance, but
have, as usual, dashed into the breach to meet the
malignant hordes which Costa Rica may at any
time pour on to these coasts. We find that Costa
Bio x is one of a congeries of five vast States occu-
pying Central America, the inhabitants of which
take turns round to have a war. She has an army
of seven men and a boy when on a peace-footing,
but in time of war can call out reserves to the
number of 18 Spaniards, three half-bred Mexicans,,
and a negro to take charge of the baggage and
ammunition-cart, which is drawn by two ancient
but once sturdy mules. In the last raid
on the united forces of Guatemala and San
Salvador, two republics which wipe one an-
other out annually, the forces met on a high range
within view of the Lesseps Canal, and hung out a
flag of truce, for far down in the valley were the
contractors’ tents glittering in the sun. Then felt
they like stout Cortez when he looked down on the
shining steeples and pyramid temples that marked
the last city of Montezuma—Mexico the Ancient.
A truce of one day was agreed to, and in the even-
ing both forces attacked a detached teffl, wounded
the two men in charge, seized all the provisions,
fired the tent, and started back with drums beat-
ing and banners waving to receive the acclaim of
their compatriots. It is time to vary the words of
General Safe-cure Warner, and ask “What’s this
invasion that is coming upon us?” We want no
devastated hen-roosts and smoking fowlhouses
here. Let usnot be led away by the smooth words
of this Costa Rican Plenipotentiary. We have only
one advice to offer—Let us be ready. Tnls is no
time for Field-marshal Richardson and Major-
General Sargood to be away inspecting troops in
the back-blocks.
The Sydney Echo Is nothing if not hys-
terical, and it is only imbecile then; but beyond
all, it is cartful to see bow public opinion goes,
and then it makes a blind plunge in the same
direction. These paragraphs which we print
below were taken from Issues of the stated dates-
The italics are our own;—
June 2.
“ Now, of all places in
the world, the vicinity of
a lighthouse, unless the
latter be fixed at the en-
trance of a port, is the
last place where a ship-
wreck could be expected;
and, presuming that a
vessel were in distress,
it is not likely that her
commander would run
her on a dangerous reef.
Hence the contingency
to provide for was
one of a very remote
character.”
June 5.
“It is unreasonable to
assume that when a part
of the coast is sufficiently
dangerous to warrant
the expenditure of
£20,000 or £30,000 in the
erection of a lighthouse,
and an annual sum of
hundreds to maintain
it some few pounds should
also be laid out in pro-
viding the power to ren-
der assistance to vessels
that, despite the light,
may and da suffer ship-
wreck there."
The first par. was written to belittle Mr. O’Sulli-
van's speech in the House. That energetic mem-
ber is the betc noir of the “respectable” papers;
and as apy shovel is good e ough to throw
mud with, it seemed to I cho intelligence thatthis
want of rockets at Green Cape would do. But by
Saturday the Bulletin notice of this disgraceful
want of appliances had been published, and public
opinion went that way; and in the second par. the
Echo abjectly ate the mud previously thrown, and
yelled for the appllancts it had previously derided.
In such manner do money-grubbing rags grovel in
slavish adoration to the public which throws
pennies to them in recompense for what ?
Here is an item with the dew of the woods
upon it, exhaling the aroma of the solemn gum-
leaf, and suggesting the purr of the fat opossum.
A gentleman residing at Taralga was summoned
to appear in Goulburn as a juror at the Quarter
Sessions The local show unfortunately fell on
the day for which he was summoned. He had
been appointed a judge of cattle thereat, and the
eyes of the world were upon him. What was to
be done ? He decided to let the dread dispensation,
of Justice root along somehow without his help,
and stand by the shorthorns. So he wrote to the
court explaining that, in consequence of being a
judge at the show, he couldn’t attend the call of
the desnotic law. He was promptly fined a fiver,
but at the last meeting of the court the presiding
judge remitted the fine, and the countryman won,,
after all.and the dignity of the show was vindicated.
But his Honor remarked that it was singular that
a man should set his duties as a judge of horses
and pigs higher than his duties as a juror. We
don’t wonder at it. We think the people of
Taralga aie better critics of live-stock than men.
We say to them as Lancelot to Sir Kay—
“ Sleuth hound thou knowest, and gray, and all
the hounds
A horse thou knowest—a man thou dost nob
know.”
Why we think this, and why the name of Taralga
shall remain branded in letters of fire on our
weary brain till the cold grave clod brings us rest,
we will tell you. Once we undertook to go from
Goulburn through the weird and savage
solitudes of the Intervening bush to Taralga.
What we went for is now no matter, but
it was a mission of some public importance,
and we flattered ourself that it was not in
the hands of a completely obscure ambassa-
dor. After climbing over the tops of mountains
that touched the sun, and sliding down into val-
leys that reached almost to the subterranean fires
of the earth, we got to Taralga, and made our
triumphal entry. We had chosen a rather unfor-
tunate time, for the Electric Circus had arrived
just before us, and the whole village—or kraal, or
whatever it is—was mad with joy, and we were
comparatively unnoticed. As we rode down the
queer little street, such of the leading citizens as
were not helping to rig up the circus tent, or tak-
ing the performing ponies off to water with a view
to “passes.” came to their doors and there
stood petrified glaring on our tailor-made togs
in distrust and menace. We haughtily went on.
and, entering the principal hotel, gave our steed
in charge of a groom, whom our superior
bearing rendered speechless and flaccid. Then we
sought the landlord, and disclosed our identity,
and explained our mission with some hauteur.
He hadn’t much time to devote to us, so we fol-
lowed him into the bar, and continued to expatiate
on the large political significance of the matter we
had in hand. Then a touzled native of the locality,
with prominent gums and bare feet, after regard-
ing us in bewilderment for a few moments, rose
from a bench and crept furtively out. Outside we
heard him call to some more remote savage,
“Mick I come over-quick I The gory clown’s in-
side! An’ he’s talkin’—like anythin’.” That is
why we think the Taralga boys are out of it as
judges of men, and that is why, now, when we are
wealthy, caressed, and courted, the name of
Taralga arises before us like BeUhazzar’s warning,
and we shudder I
A BUSTED ROMANCE.
In the town of Goondlwlndi
(It’s in Queensland, p’r’aps you know)
There was such a precious shindy,
Just a little time ago.
For just as the sun had showed up.
Locking such a bis zing swell.
Two young lovirg couples rode up
To the principal hotel.
And the landlady winked slyly
With the corner of her eye.
For the girls were blushing shyly,
And the men looked proud as pie.
Cut an episode abhorrent
Dashed aside their joyful cup—1
A policeman with a warrant
Came and took those two men up.
And before the beak he brought them.
And the beak he said, “ By gum,
He was gladder he had caught them
Than—a quart of Queensland rum.”
Then he slowly blinked his shiners,
And he charged them, do you see,
With abducting of two minors
From the township of Moree.
Then he straightway made an order
That the four of them should be
Taken back across the border
To the township of Moree.
So, attended by a warder,
Through the mournful even-gloam,
Back across the bitter border
Wound tnat sad procession home.
What became of them we know not,
And we can’t give their address;
And the local papers show not
Anything by which to guess.
But those gallants gay who courted
On the Lochinvarlsh plan
Were most probably transported
(If not hanged) to Queanbeyan.
And the damsels who went sailing
Off with them—what was their doom ?
By their sire barged with a paling—
By their mother with a broom ?
If a moral here you’re hoping.
Take it, you can have it free—
It is: when you start eloping
Do not do it from Moree.


A SPECIAL INVITATION.
We especially invite a trial by ell those sufE rers
SVom Kidaey and Liver complaints who have
to obtain relief from other remedies and
doctors. Nature’s great remedy-Dr. Bell's
Bitters—has effected cures in many obstinate
cases. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, cleansing the system of all poisonous
humours and restoring a healthy erudition of
those important organs. Do not be discouraged,
but try it.
Wolfe's Schnapps.—lt has often been
Irated, but'never had a rival.
The vigour of youth given to the aged In-
form by using Hop Bitters made by American Co.
'Xry it. Read
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make the best
and. most agreeable drink in hot weather.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
gdleoted vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
®Baly sold by Hookings, JII3 Pitt-street.
Marie Brizardl
The success of Wolfe's Schnapps in these
Colonies has heeu unparalleled.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Sydney War Cry item. “ I went into a
shop last week to buy a pistol with whioh to re-
lieve myself of my misery, but I only had 15s,
and the pistol would cost 26s.”
War Crt again : “ One night Captain
Werrisooreye and I spent in a cave in Ceylon.
There were a great many wild beasts about. We
heard next day that a tiger had attacked a buffalo
close by there only a night or two before. We
were desperately hungry, I remember, and I saw a
land-crab crawling along. I made a dive at it and
killed it, and Werrisooreye and I ate it, shell and
all.”
A LONG-PELT WANT.
Some people are never satisfied. The in-
habitants of Charters Towers (Q.) are now com-
plaining to the Government about the insufficient
accommodation of the local look-up. Humph! We
would suggest—but perhaps they will remember it
better if we put the suggestion in rhyme. Thus;—
If your lock-up is over-filled,
Don’t fret, and fume, and frown—
But ask the Government to build
A wall around the town!
* • •
Mr. Alexander Sutherland has commenced
a series of articles in the Melbourne Argus, on
“ Australian Literature in its First Century.” His
first article deals with poetry. Mr. Sutherland is
omething of a poet himself, and consequently
speaks with a show of authority. He begins with
Barron Field—a most happy name for the man in
his poetic capacity—who was once a Judge of the
Supreme Court in Sydney, and wrote a volume
of verse, which he called “ Botany Bay Flowers.’’
It was very weedy stuff. Then came the master-
ful Dr. Lang, who beat out his lyrics with a flail,
and fashioned his sonnets with a sledge-hammer.
After him young Henry Parkes came up the
colonial Parnassus, piping his “Murmurs of the
Stream.” Ay de mi! That was a long, long time
ago. And now for a little strain in a minor key—
We shall cot continue this paragraph. Mr.
Sutherland may proceed with his articles om Aus-
tralian poets, and we shall, probably, read them
with pleasure, but we have grown sick of the sub-
ject for one day.
* * *
OF COURSE I
It was raining, and the man wa» loaded
up with rum. He paused at the door of an out-
fitting establishment (this occurred in Melbourne),
and gazed pensively at a bundle ol umbrellas
standing just inside the threshold. Mnally he
heaved a mournful hiccup, selected th^largest in
the bundle, and staggered gravely up the street
with it. The shopman followed him and gave him
in charge. Next day he was brought before the
Court and accused of committing this crime
feloniously and maliciously. The proseou-
tor, however, admitted that when the pri-
soner perpetrated it he was not sober.
The judge discharged him, at the same time
expressing his wonder as ta what a man who was
drunk could want with an umbrella. This wonder
of the judge’s strikes us as highly ridloulous-so
much so, in fact, that we will devote certain
lines of a more or less ghastly character to it.
Observe:
A London paper tells us that some of the
Queen’s Indian subjects “ have recognised her in-
fallibility by placing her Majesty among their
gods.” There’s nothing to be surprised at in that.
N.S.W. subjects have done the same thing without
half as much reason. Fetch the tom-tom.
Ah I sordid wretch I cold ironmonger,
We wish you all calamity,
All complex pangs of thirst and hunger
> In life, and Hades when you die.
You saw the man was bent on killing
Himself—was fairly “ on the job ”—
May you lose every cherished shilling !—
You’d not come down eleven hoh I
Alas, that men should be as callous
As you? May Fear b?set your way;
May the dread figure of the gallows
Assail your vision day by day I
You knew the Devil had this person
Just then, you wretch, yet you must rob
The Evil One, and bring our curse on
Your head,—for what? Eleven bob I
Base shopman I without public spirit 1
Confusion blight you 1 In the street—
May you be ever there to hear it-
When this glad escapee shall beat
The cymbals, may you hear him quaking
Down foghorns, while the war-drums throb,
And cry, with head and heart both aching,
‘‘Oh, now I’d drop eleven bobl”
May you for ever wear the willow
For your cold greed I May “ lasses ” shriek
Like demons round your sleepless pillow.
And Captains on your future “ speak ”;
May they assure you you’ll be basted
And grilled upon Q ehenna’s hob.
Till you repent of having wasted
That chance, to save eleven bob I
You selfish dog I You and your money 1
If we had but a pistol, we
Had cried, “ By all means take It, sonny,
It’s loaded, you can have it free.”
There’s nothing worldly in our nature;
But you, you viper I We could sob
To think the world contains a creature
Who values so eleven bob I
We’re worry sorry to peruse the story
Of the sad straits of Captain Werrisooreye;
’Tia not o’er pleasant, it appears, to steal on
The Devil in the spicy groves of Ceylon.
’Twould seem that, in that balmy Island’s story,
The path of tigers is the way to glory.
Sore-eyed we weep to think we ll never soar high
Enough to wish the lot of Werrisooreye.
Ah 1 where is that young Henry Parkes,
With hyacinthlne curls,
Who left on poetry his marks,
And sang in songs that threw out sparks,
His hatred of land-hungry sharks,
His scorn of lords and earls ?
Did he in his young manhood go
To the Great Silence ? Did
He lllckcr out in that first glow ?
And do—this thing we yearn to know—
His honoured relics lie below
A votive pyramid ?
He has no tomb—yet he is dead;
No grave—yet he’s deceased.
An old man who should be abed.
But plays the pantaloon instead;
A burnt-out torch whose flame bss fled,
A as pless tree whose leaves are shed,
A spectre with a hoary head,
A phantom at the feast.
What did he want with it 7 Oh, thunder I
It is enough gray hairs to bring,
That any man of sense should wonder
At such a very simple thing.
Was ever rhyme with reason fraughter 7
He reeked with rum: the day was damp,
He didn’t want to mix with water
That rum—so he annexed the gamp.
PRACTICAL RELIGION.
Good luck attend this goddess, may she keep her
pride of place,
And deserve the good opinion of this courtly nig-
ger race
Whioh has put her In Its temples and chucked
over Juggernaut-
May she always do her duty as a heathen goddes?
ought.
In days gone by tha deities too oft have led astray
The simple souls who trusted 'em, so people seem
to say;
Nor Brahma, no, nor Siva, strove their loyal
friends to save,
On more than one occasion, from a sad and early
grave.
The Mutiny, for instance, was a striking case In
point,
The upshot of that struggle put the noses out of
joint
iirngm 1
i^ULiES
"HEAVEN IS OUR HOME.”
"Mr. Walker, secretary of the Adelaide Y.M.C.A., has got four years for embezzle-
ment, and has thus gone to join the pious defaulter, Crooks."- Daily Paper.
IF HEAVEN IS THE PLACE WHERE THE SAINTS ARE, THE ABOVE MUST NOW BE THE
ADELAIDE IDEA OF HEAVEN.
‘Of both these vain pretenders-they were precious
little use
In preventing British bayonets from playing up
the Deuoe.
?But now the wily niggers seem repentant of their
sins,
/And prefer to offer homage to the deity that wim
This Is the real motive which has prompted them
to pick
<Oa our Gracious Sovereign Lady and Create her
“ Goddess Vic.”
'Then bow ye down, good people, and submit ye to
her will;
IBhe is certainly a Goddesi who is warranted to kill
All niggers that oppose her mighty arms (yea.
mighty quick)—
And your policy at present la to worship Goddess
Vic.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents toho give neither name nor nom-dc-
plwne cannot expect to have their com-
municatiom noticed, 1
“Alligator”: We believe “Frewd” is the
correct pronunciation, but since “Oceana” was
published many Australians pronounce it “Fraud.”
.... “ M.S.J.”: No, but they’re commencing to sus-
pect that the Kimberley may be only a ‘ store-
keeper’s rush ” after all. You’d better go to the
Queensland coast— “Mickey”: No, a woman
who married the former husband of her deceased
sister in the colonies, would be held to be still a
single woman if she went to England. The House
of Lords won’t assent to the 8i11...." W. 0.”: The
reason why Sunday afternoon is a. “ sleepy time ”
with you is that you probably have your breakfast
late, and eat, like the average bourgeois, anun.
usually b‘g dinner tolerably soon after it. There’s
really nothing occult or Divine about Sabbatical
langour. It’s all a matter of holy beef and holy
beer, and holy pudding and holy indigestion—
“ Kate”: You are the sort of woman who would
rather have your husband a pawnbroker than a
literary man so that you might wear the jewellery.
Staines”: Keep it and start a journal de-
voted to the discussion of esoteric anthropology-
(Oondoblln): A clever joke
“Watson:” The weakest imitation we have ever
seen of a very weak sample of humour. Talking
of a person’s “ measly carcase " is not wit, and
there is nothin? particularly funny in the name of
Spoopendyke, even when it is repeated 100 times
on the same page. You have missed your oppor-
tunity, Watson. Sydney Tunch died three years
too soon for you ..." Bombo” (Klama): Thanks.
Not likely the navvies would join the Salvation
Army as long as they could get beer. Sack items
always acceptable.. ,' NC.T.B.”: Of no appalling
Interest to us. We have no demand for purely
negative humour . .“Dubbo”: If a member of a
Land Board publicly proclaims that ‘the squat-
ters dummy [half the land taken up,' 1 either he
or the squatters should bs prosecuted
“ Y.Z,”: There s not much in your sketch, save
that It seems to sm 11 of whisky. The scent cl
whisky on the breath can be subdued by smear
ing asafoe'ida on the moustich?. ...‘‘Unit”:
When Bailey wrote of a rod ” leaf, be meant, no
doubt, a dead, and, therefore, easily-crushed
autumn leaf- We haven’t time to go over
“Festus” now “Palmyra’ : Sir John Robert-
son was certainly very much “ out ” when he s*.id
that Victoria had always been in active anta-
gonism to England. That the younger colony has
not always been surrounded by a fog-halo of
• loyalty ” we admit, and we also allow that h:r
policy has been Australian rather than Tory-
English, but that position involves no active anta-
gonism. The statement is unreliable—Robert-
sonian, in fact—“ Verdant Green”: Printed
“ goal ” instead of “ gaol,” did they ? Well, as
the girl who read that “ marriage was the jail of
every maiden’s hope?,” remarked: "It is really
correct either way.” It is just the same thing
after all. We have been there and we kn0w.....
“ W.R.R.”: Fairly metrical verse, but yet not up
to the mark.. .“Taraigian”; Until our doubts as
to the bona-fldw of your letter are set at rest, your
interesting social item will be set at rest also—
“ Want to Know”: No, certainly not. He could
not recover damages i£]a person stated the prove-
able fact that he had served a sentence
Three things—wattles, a corpse, and
genius—are necessary for the manufacture of real
Australian bush-poetry. Your lines only contain
the first two essentials “Edwin”: Poetry? We
would not paper a fowl-house with it. Basket....
“C. 8.”: Tour argument can be used against you.
When Count Rostopsohln fired Moscow, and thus
entailed destruction upon the French invading
army, the English people and Press lauded him as
a noble patriot, but when the Burmese Imi-
tate his example they are howled at as “ dacoits,”
“ robbers,” “ murderers,” and “ blood-thirsty vil-
lains.” In considering the position of patriots it
makes all the difference as to whether your own
nation or some other is doing the invading.
When the French disturbed the Annamese, the
Christians of England pointed to the act as
an awful instance of the fruits of Catholi-
cism, but the devout Anglloan now can find
no hard for the Burmese patriots —“ M.
James”: “Where dees Edith O'Gorman, tie
‘ Escaped Nun,’ put the money paid for admission
to her lectures ?” Why, we presume she puts it
into her holy pocket and reverentially adds it to
her sanctified bank-balance—‘C. Masson”:
Thanks. We are, however, sure that the Mayor of
Sydney will be made a baronet, if not a duke, on
the occasion of the Queen’s Jubilee. The facts
that he condemns “ the practice of stupid, ignorant
people marking and writing their ignoble names ”
on the walls of the Fish River Caves; that he has
gorgeously named one of those caves “The Bur-
mese Canopy and last, but not least, that he has
bought napkins for the Sydney aldermen, are all
symptomatic of that lavish splendour and Orient ■
alism of idea which is the invariable precursor of
ennoblement “C J. Marston ”: Genius is a kind
of madness. The S.M. Herald people are all sane.
...“ M Turner”: Putting your feet on the mantel-
piece mayn’t be an elegant habit, but it’s very
comfortable, and is suggested by Nature as a
relief to the over-wrought heart-action, There
are lots of worse habits than elevating your hoofs
a foot or two over your tired head... “J. M. Tolle-
mache”: If you won’t believe us, listen to what an
an English Tory paper recently said on the sub-
ject; Some years ago there was a prize-fight in
England between an Englishman and an
The English were la a majority in the Ring—or
Concert. They thought that the American was
going to defeat the Englishman. So they arbi-
trated. Without the employment indeed of pro-
tocols, for which time was wanting, they inter-
fered and put a stop to the combat. The arbitration
between Sayers and Heenan will perhaps be the
model for the arbitration between Turkey and
Greece,” &0....“ A. Margoschis”; The postage to
England of The Bulletin Is only one penny..,.
“ Thos. Hart” (Wollongong): No, Thomas, we are
not “ mashed ” on the volume of poems you have
sent us.l,But what we do admire is your two-inch
ad. on the front page: "Pick-handles made to
order, wholesale and retail.” The combination of
pick-handles and poetry, Thomas, proves to us
that you are less a poet than a humorist. Let us
quote the opening lines of your ballad to the
Soudan Contingent:
“ The southern soldiers gone to war,
With the edge of a British name j
Their manly hearts stand not ajar.
They’re Britors all the same.”
Now, Thomas this is not poetry in any of thd
word. We can’t catch on to your allusion to the edge
of a British name any more than a bandicoot can
comprehend the doetrlne of Apostolic succession.
You have gone for too high a theme: Instead of
apostrophising the Soudan Contingent you should
have poured out your soul in an ode to the Soudan
Goat, or spread yourself in an epic on the political
reputation of Ezekiel Alexander Baker. Nor do
you get on any better with the Egyptian War
poem, commencing;
“ The startling sound of war’s gone forth;
All nations in their might look on:
Not with the sluggish beat of hearts,
But with the rolling beat of envy.”
Take our advice, Thomas, and stick to the pick-
handles ; or, if trade should fall slack in that line,
you might try undertaking, with a view of retail-
ing your verse for Evening News “In Memo-
riams.” “Rose Hill”: We have not heard that
the so'icitor you mention, has prosecited tee
Newcastle paper for the howling libel printed
some weeks since—“ Junius Jonens’s ” : We be-
lieve in cremation. We tried it with your screed.
....“ J. B. Cleary ”: No, the Divorce Court is not
called an ecclesiastical one because the clergy are
so frequently before it “Oyster Johnnie”:
Stock matter must always give place to that which
is current. Held over for early treatment
“RR.”: If the constituencies choose to elect
drunkards as their representatives, shutting grog
out from the Parliamentary refreshment-rooms
won’t mend matters. Membe s are not always so
drunk that they can’t walk to the pub?....‘ Cock-
ney”: You, a recently-arrived Englishman, say
that we of The Bulletin “have a more correct
idea of the state of affairs at home, both social and
political, than any other paper in this city.” We
don’t hesitate to print this, for it is really very
mild praise. “ The Kiama Ghost” la the yarn that
Sir Henry Parkis pitched at that town some years
ago, when he made a very mild attempt to figure
as a colonial edition of Titus Oates by revealing an
imaginary Fenian conspiracy. Sir Henry himself
may have been deluded by this alleged Popish plot,
but no one dss was save the Orangemen...
“W.H.S.”: Thanks. Your sketch wi 1 probably
appear in an altered form...” A. C. How”: Keep on
sending-it sno tr. üble at all to pitch it into the
receptacle “RR.’ : A self-made man of the
kind you mean is an individual whom Piovidencs
tried to construct, but had to leave unfinished,
because the exigencies of society demanded the
immediate erection of a nigeror a Chinaman in
the first place. Then when Providence came back
with a yawn to finish that unimportant little job
that it had dropped so suddenly, it found that the
man had done the rest of the work himself, and it
briefly remarked, “Thank goodness I ”


B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
u-
---rt
FULL*; SUITES for DINING-ROOM.— side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
ĥ
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably u P
bolstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb. ’
ħ
O PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case,
i ree at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS. 1
TABLES in all Immens'e
in Emhrl.kry’ Hiish'&n.'BKADlly? NEwfolf 1
lSi A sSte FUrnltUre ,mp ° MCrs ' O'Connell and
\v
ALNUT FALL-
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
„ , _, ~ , . Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
mg or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious,-arid perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men
NeWt ° n ’ and Lanlb > Connell and Spring
Ess
WHATNOTS, effective
KJ Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
U Uonnell-street. 7
h
Drawing room cabl
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb'
ĥ
WfALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier—a desideratum for the Barris-
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench,
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy— especially
so for the Invalid Reader,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
ħ
evolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods,
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can he
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN,
R~ OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and"
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
, for
rest-
and
h
Bedsteads, ail sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
B
EDDING. All descriptions at lowest rates*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
ĥ
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine TablcsT front'
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.<
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side--
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. Gd S
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMBi
SOCIALS
On Monday evening, the 7th inst., a
Government House, Sydney, H.B. the Governo
and Lady Oarington gave a farewell dinner party
and dance to Captain the Hon. C. Harbord and the
Hon. Miss Harbord, who have arranged to leave
Sydney on 15th Inst. About a dozen of Miss Har-
bord’s young lady friends and an equal number of
gentlemen!were present at the dinner and at the
dance afterwards, together with a few other
society people, who arrived at 9 p.m. About 11
o’clock delicious hot soup was handed round.
The supper table was laden with good things to
eat and drink, and the very handsome silver plate
was universally admired. Lady Oarington looked
extremely graceful in a beautiful dregs of pale
blue crepe, elaborately trimmed with heavy pearl
fringe. Her ladyship also wore magnificent dia-
monds. Mies Harbord was attired in a becoming
gown of amber satin with artistic draperies
of the same shade of tulle. Among the visi-
tors were Sir Alfred and the Misses Stephen,
Colonel, Mrs. and Miss Richardson, Admiral
Tryon, Captain Lake, Captain Hamilton, K.N.,
Captain Guinn, R.N., Lord Capel, Baron de Tuyll,
Lord Bertie, Captain Sheriff, Captain Gascoigne,
Captain Griffiths, Messrs. Oakden, Balllie, Broadiey,
Bloxsome, Sandeman, Alison, &o. Some of the
ladies wore very stylish and pretty costumes.
Mrs. Sahl’s was especially admired, being an ela-
borate cream brocade with raised pink and white
roses and buds; this appeared to be draped over
an under-skirt covered with designs of smoke
S earls; Miss Hill appeared to great advantage in a
andsome white tulle and satin costume; Miss
Hogg’s dress was greatly admired also—it was a
perfect shade of pale-biue satin, with waterfall
back of white tulle, and the front of the dress was
covered with beautifully jetted white lace and
finished off with large bows of pale-blue velvet;
Miss Ethel Lamb was attired in an extremely
pretty gown of sea-green satin, with trimmings of
the same coloured tulle; Mrs. Robert Tooth had
on a very handsome toilette of grenat satin, beau-
tifully draped with crepe, splendid diamond jewel-
lery. One admired gown was a combination of
steel-grey satin slashed with pink. A handsome
dress was a black velvet, with embroidered pick
satin petticoat. A number of elegant dresses were
of white or cream satin, with trimmings of tulle
and pearls. A noticeable gown was of golden-
brown satin and tulle. Another was a maize and
black satin, which was very becoming to the
wearer.
, ♦ ♦ ♦
There is treason in every line of what
“ Pendragon,” of the Referee, writes about Syd-
ney society. He is attacking our old colonial
nobility 1 We pause to wipe the clammy drops
from our brow. He has laughed at our peers
he has derided the bluest blood that ever ran in a
Darling Point nobleman s veins I Just listen to his
blasphemy: He is on board the Massllia, steaming
to our own dear Fetter-land, and he writes:—” The
leading lady of the company is the wife of a
colonial knight, who, though the rank was con-
ferred five or six years ago, has scarcely as yet
shaken down into placid possession of it. 1 am
told that the annexation of some savage islands
gave the husband of the lady who 1s the subject
of my bumble theme, hisititle. His name is Wool-
loomoolool Lady W. is not the only lady on
board. Tnere is another—Lady Murrumbidgee—
but she’s not a patch on Lady W. She has been to
England to get presented at Court, so as to be in
front of all the other ladies whose husbanas have
been knighted.” “Pendragon” has made a
*‘tropical” start.
Constancy and virtue always are their
own reward. Niooiini the constant had a virtuous
wife; she obtained a divorce from Nioolini-that
was the reward of virtue. Patti’s husband ob-
tained a divorce also. Patti, it is cabled, has
married Nicollni—that is the reward of constancy.
Honours divided.
• * *
More salvation for Double Bay. It is
stated that a church is about to be erected in this
little suburb in which the Rev. North Ash is to
preach. This gentleman made himself very popu-
lar while acting-incumbent of All Saints.
* * *
The second Grand National meeting of
Sydney Tattersall’s Club took place on Saturday,
the 13th, at Rindwick Racecourse. The day was
deliciously fine and quite like spring weather.
Not more than 8000 persons were present, conse-
quently there was no crowding. The Governor,
accompanied by bis usual suite, arrived in time to
see the Hurdle Race. The lawn was most inviting
since the late rain; the grass looks simply perfect,
and the ladles took advantage of it to show off
their dresses. Lady Oarington wore a stylish gown
of blue mixed with white lines, dolman and bonnet
to correspond; the Hon. Judith Harbord had on
an exquisite drees of pale canary-coloured cloth,
which fitted to perfection; Mrs, Gilchrist dis-
played a handsome costume to great advantage;
Mrs. Moriarty, a well-fitting, tailor-made gown of
black serge trimmed with military braid; Mrs.
Purves, a graceful costume of golden-brown
plush skirt, with overskirt of biscuit-coloured
material finished off with facings of brown
plush—stylish bonnet with yellow bird ; Mrs.
Gilchrist, a handsome brocaded satin skirt of
golden-brown with over-skirt of same coloured
cashmere; Mrs. Andrew Blomfield, a stylish dress
of grey material; Mrs. Roberts, a handsome com-
bination of black cashmere and embossed velvet,
bonnet to correspond; Mrs. H. B. Cohen, a stylish
black costume; Mrs. Stewart (Melbourne), a much-
admired dress of grey cloth profusely trimmed
with grey fur; a lovely gown was of light-grey
beige with a touch of browmin it—the skirt was
made with broad box-pleats, between each pleat
10 or 13 narrow strips of brown braid were sewn,
with a row of tiny carved wooden beads sewn on
the middle strip; the bodice was fitting beautifully
and fastened on either side of the vest with tiny
carved brown buttons. A Zouave jacket was very
stylish, made of black velvet with ropes of jet
about it; another mantle was very handsome,
made of black corded silk edged with jet—the
front was a tight-fitting vest of white moire which
was almost entirely veiled with rich black lace.
This was worn over an elegant black skirt.
* * *
The engagement is announced of Colonel
Bingham, R. A, and Miss Beatrice Stephen, niece
of Sir Alfred Stephen.
♦ * *
Sydney society seems to have no plan of
dividing its pleasures. For the past three weeks
there has been a dance every night, and *• at
homes ”by the dozen. The result of this has been
that all womankind is done up and looking
wretched. But they will now be able to “pick
up,” as matters are at present comparatively dull.
One would think that in so small a community
party-givers might make better arrangements,
and not tread so much on one another s heels.
« ♦ 9
Cards of invitation are issued for a dance,
to be given on the 17th inst. by Mrs. C, J. Roberts,
of Chats worth, Potts Point,
♦ • •
At a meeting of the Sydney Liedertafel,
held on June 7, Mr. J. R. Street was elected unop-
posed to the position of vice-president of teat
society in the room of the late Mr. Hugh George.
» ♦ *
They have started “ Surprise Parties ” in
Melbourne. They are old institutions in Sydney;
in fact, every party one goes to is more or less a
surprise—and it’s this—how on earth, apart from
miracles, the hungry and thirsty souls get’‘well
fined ” at the mean supper-tables Sydney swells
provide. ,
We have been asked to call attention to
the fact that several members of the Art Society
m Ashing to recognise the services of M
J. W. Sayer, honorary secretary of the society, b
that contributions may be sent to George Rear
JL Bq *oV,S??* seo * 0)C the movement, not later tha
the 30th instant.
» • *
Sir Saul Samuel, we are told, has bee
made free member of the Worshipful Company o
P9S*j A. Sydney Civil servant is of opinio
that this is a delicate mode of showing respect 1
the great nation of whom Sir Saul 5 a humb
unit.
* • •
Sir Alfred Stephen will be glad to hea
that, owing to more liberal laws in Scotland
divorces have about doubled in four years. Syt
ney newspapers will be lively reading when th
new Act has a turn.
• •
Perhaps no musician of modern times pul
on more “side” than Liszt. We have observed in ou
time in Sydney sundry piano-players with foreig
names ‘ put on jam”—but Liszt can give the lo
points and beat them. When a young man, he usee
~e eP the audience waiting, and then calml;
stroll on to the stage at the morning concerto
hat in hand. He would pause, brush his hat, pu l
IP 9PA 80fa * an( t wine the dust off the muslc-stoo
he d then dust the keys of the piano, tmile at th
audience as though they were dirt—which they
certainly were or they’d have got up and gone ou
—and then begin to play. He’s still at his ole
games, and has the Queen running after him in
London. We feel kindly towards these muslca
swells till we see them.
• • •
The eminent Mr. Darley, Q.C., of Sydney
who got £l3OO to go to Brisoane and appear in t
mining action, lost his case.
» * »
Captain Gascoigne, A.D.C. to the Governor
has got out the celebrated 10-ton yacht Carinna
There s not much show about the Captain, bu
he s one of the sort that yachtsmen want, am
they wish him luck accordingly.
* * *
Two lovely waltzes that we can recom-
mend are “ Meine Liebe Kleine,” by R K. Poole,
and ‘Rowing,” by Cavailero. New waltzes are
certainly wanted in Australia.
* » »
Speaking of dances, it strikes one as odd
that young ladies from 17 to 34 should be allowec
to go to a dance alone and then drive home—noi
alone, you may be sure—at lor2 in the morning’.
One used to wonder why such dances were given,
until it was explained that it arose from sordic
meanness on the part of the hosts. “You see,’
she said, “chaperones and old people eat so—while
on toe other hand the party-givers need not gel
supper for the ‘ kittens.’ ” Perhaps not—but they
might have to get them husbands.
> » «
“ Heraldry, English and Foreign,” is a
new work we have been asked to review. Well,
we won’t. It’s inaccuracies are self-evident—they
are on every page. Under D. we looked for John
Davies—not mentioned! Under P. for Parkes—not
there; J. for Jennings, I), for Dailey, and so on.
Couldn’t find one of them; and yet the author,
Canon Jenkins, claims that “ he has given the
most complete list ever yet published of noble
lamllies and their bearings.” Bosh.
* * ♦
Another disappointment for Australians.
For some time they have been flattering them-
selves that they are establishing quite a little
grave-yard of illustrious dead. The anobinses and
the Topklnses had actually bought corpse-lots as
near the spot as possinle. Now we are toll that
the body of the late Sir Peter Seratchley, High
Commissioner of New Guinea, has been sent home
to enrich the already inflated historical soil of
G reat Britain. And yet we speak of loyalty I
• • *
We read tn a London paper that “ Dion
Boucicault’s ‘ Spae Wife ’ was acted for the first
lime on any stage on March 30, for copyright pur-
poses, at the Elephant and Castle theatre The
piece is an adaptation of Scott’s ’Guy Mannerlng,’
and follows the story very closely.” When we
first saw the announcement wo read it “ Dion B.’s
Spare Wife.” He is generally believed to have
one, donoherknow?
• ♦ *
The engagement is announced of Miss
Grant, sister of Lady Dalrymple, and Mr. Daniel
Cooper, son of Sir Daniel of that ilk.
* • •
On Friday, the 4th of June, Judge and
Mrs. Wilkinson gave a dance at their residence.
Glebe Point. Amongst the guests were Lady and
the Misses Manning, Mrs. and the Misses Darley,
Mrs. Orr and Miss Manning, the Misses Foster, the
Misses Hillyar, Miss Pell, Miss Valliant, &c. The
hostess wore a stately and elaborate gown of
cardinal satin; Mias Wilkinson had on a becoming
dress of salmon-coloured satin and tulle; her
sister looked well also in a pretty cream toilette.
A pretty girl wore a simple black dress, which
suited her admirably. A noticeable frock was of
pale-blue satin, covered with silver-tulted tulle,
silver sprays on the V-sbaped bodice. The dance
had one fault: the comparative youthfulness of
the masculine guests.
* * *
On Friday evening, the 11th, the fifth an-
nual ball of the North Shore Rowing C.ub was
teld. About 100 persons were present. Tne sup
per arrangements were admirably managed by
Callaghan; and the music was very good. Amongst
the very many pretty dresses which were worn
the most conspicuous were a bright crimson plush
artistically toned down by rich jetted lace; a
lovely frock was a pale-pink silk, draped with
same coloured lace, bodice, fitting well, laced at
the back; another remarkable one was a bright-
green satin and tulle, bodice cut low, with trim-
mings of lace and pearls; an admired dress was a
black lace skirt opening over a yellow satin petti-
coat which was covered with crysanthemums; a tall
lady wore a becoming gown of pink nun s veiling
made quite plain; a lady, well-known for good
taste in dress, wore on this occasion a combination
of creme point de gaul lace and satin—the bodice
was low and trimmed with a berthe of ostrich
feathers aud pearls.
* * *
We see now where the snobbery began
and the charity ended among that class of people
who gave sums varying i rom £3OOO to £5OO each
to kill Arabs in the Soudan. On Saturday was
published the total amount subscribed for the
Ly-ee-Moon relief fund, and it (disgraceful fact)
totalled up £375 14j. Id. The well-dressed mob
who attended the Sydney Town Hall meeting gave
on the average about twopence, or £34 3 1. in all. Not
one bishop or head of any denomination appears
by name on the latest list—modesty, perhaps.
Then where did even the small amount come
from? Eleven cooks and stewards gave 375. each,
eleven more gave 31s each, the sailors of one
A.B.N. steamer gave £B7, and so on. This la the
charity that, extending to the N.S.W. public asy-
lums, denies poor old women any milk In their
tea. At Newington asylum, on tne score of the
deficit in the revenue—this is another fact, but it
reads like a joke-dry bread and milkless tea are
served out to the old women twice a day.
* * ♦
Everybody knowing anything about art
and artists in Sydney will be glad to hear that Mrs.
Mary Stoddard has won a recently-advertised £lOO
prize, which, after all, is only paid her as a very
fair price for the charming picture by reason of
which the premium in question becomes hers. As
a painter of women aud children Mrs. Stoddard
stands absolutely alone in Australia. And yet in
the hlghly-civillsed city of Sydney this accom-
plished lady has known some hard times, whi'e soft
goodsmenwere selling “ art curtains ” at 50 guineas
a pair.
* * *
Yes, when Lord Carington follows the
hounds, we guess some other hounds will follow
his Lordship pretty considerably. Did we not
hear some yarn In our childhood about an earl
who was pestered by the “my lording ” of one
of his .tenants In the hunting field ? The noble
one jumped a stiff fence In the hope of choking
off ms persecutor. It was no go. In an in-
stant the villain was alongside him again, and
panted out—“ O Lord 1 O Lord 1 that was a lordly
leap your lordship took, indeed It was, my lord/’
Caringtpn will have to put up with a lot of that
sort of thing In N.S.W.
* * *
“ The bride was given away by her father ’ ’
often means that she was sold by the old gentle-
man to the highest bidder.
* 9 m
A young physician of Newcastle, N.S.W.,
will shortly marry a Wellington (N.Z.) lady, the
daughter of a prominent member of the Maoriland
Civil Service.
• * *
It is said that Miss Frances Folsom, who, it
was cabled the other day, has been married to the
U.B. President Cleveland, is “ ravishingly beauti-
ful,” but the American newspaper pletures of her
certainly belie the newspapers’ words. The re-
ports of the beauty and worth of the young lady
who is now the wife of the President are of the
most gratifying character, (but the wood-cut of
her cannot be termed Folsom flattery. j
v » ■
A tower was erected at the Ballarat School
of Mines some time ago for scientific purposes,
and It is the ambition of the people of the golden
city to climb that tower, and gaze on the beautiful
scenery, and the gas works, and the gaol. Mrs. L.,
the wife of a well-known local bonifaoe, thought
It would be nice to go up the spiral staircase, and
see things. Mrs. L. Is not so stout as some women,
but she's pretty buxom for all that, and when
people saw her start up the narrow stairs they
shook their heads ominously. She reached the
cloud-capped summit, revelled In a splendid view
of the East, then started back to earth; but a
little way down, she—it seems cruel to write It,
but ’tls true—stuck fast. Then there was scream-
ing, and hurrying to and fro; and strong men
went up to do or die. They pulled and pushed,
and greased the walls, and took a rest, and pulled
again. After which, they deliberated amongst
themselves as to whether it would be best to
starve the lady, or pull the tower down, but a
relay came on, and amidst great enthusiasm
Mrs. L. was freed, and brought to terra flrma
intact. People have often asked her since to go
up that tower, but she won’t, somehow.
* * *
Picnics are not always unalloyed happi-
ness. Up In the remote North, recently, a couple
of pleasure-seekers wandered away from their
party and took a romantic stroll oh the railway-
line. One of the two was a married lady; the
other was a gentleman, but not the one whom she
was pledged to love, honour, and obey. Presently
they were joined by a third party in the shape of a
cow, which, taking in the situation at a glance,
charged them viciously and drove them Into a
box-drain, the only available shelter. And there,
unhappily, they remained, for the drain was newly
tarred, and the irresistible force of cohesion made
escape impossible. Two hours later, however, a
relief expedition appeared under the command of
the lady’s husband and they were rescued; but as
they had entered head-first they were, of course,
extricated in the reverse direction, and the mar-
ried gentleman kept making unchristian remarks
between each successive *• Yo-heave-ho I” When
dragged at last into outer daylight it became evi-
dent that it is quite impossible to touch pitch
without being defiled, and a blizzard of profanity
ensued as the lady’s condition became apparent.
Some male colonists are terribly deficient in natu-
ral politeness.
It is said that Lord Carington looks but
coldly on the proposal to Invite the Prince of
Wales out here. It is not hard to guess how this Is.
Lord Carington Is jealous of the attractions of
Burdett Smith. What pals Burdett and the Prince
would he, to be sure I
els
A Melbourne “ Society ” paper devotes
half-a-column of a recent issue to the description
of a butchers’ ball. This, we suppose, Is called
sausage-table talk.
■ • •
The Sydney Social Club held one of their
pleasant gatherings at Leigh House last Wednes-
day evening. Dancing was kept up till midnight.
* * *
An exceedingly lively surprise party in-
vaded the residence of the Hon. J. P. Garvan,
North Siore. last Monday evening. The genial
Minister for Justice and his wife bore the surprise
remarkably well, and indeed, as there were no less
than three naval and five military officers with
drawn swords amongst the surprlsers. they did the
best possible thing under the circumstances—viz.,
handed over their castle to the invaders with a
good grace.
- • •
The Mere*, have fixed their ball somewhere
in July this year, and intend to make It a remark-
ably stylish affair.
♦ * »
Oscar Wilde says that “fashion is a form
of ugliness so unbearable, that we have to alter it
every six months.”
His Honor Judge Giblin—Acting Chief
Justice of Tasmania—entertained his fellow Sun-
day school teachers at his residence, Wynscote,
Hobart, on the 31 jt ult., farewelling one of their
number who is leaving the city. The conviviality
was of the mildest description, suitable to the
semi-religious and unhilarious nature of the
guests. Neither dancing nor euchre was indulged
in, but the visitors enjoyed the unusual sight of a
Chief Justice, with several leading lawyers and
merchants, carefully searching for a ; thimble,
shouting proverbs, &o. The kindness and attention
each guest received from the host and hostess
secured the enjoyment of everyone present.
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson went outside Sydney Heads
on 9th inst., for shot and shell practice. It soon
went round among the Jingo section of the popu-
lation that she was off to the New Hebrides to
burst up the local Frenchmen.
• •
Although Tasmania is 50 years behind the
rest of the colonies in most things, her hired girls
can hold their own with any in Australia. A lady
in Hobsrt, whose “ help’s hands invariably re-
semble those of a boot-black, mildly suggested
that the application of soap, soda, and water
might mak« them a little more presentable. The
maid replied, “It’s no use, Miss Janie, my hands
are them nasty coarse ones like your’s, they never
will look clean.”
• ♦ •
The late Mr. Richard Goldsbrough, of
Melbourne, left £63,000 of property in Victoria.
His friond, the facetious Mr. Jos. Pickers?!! 1 ,
benefits to a comfortable extent under the will or
deceased.
«« « «
The second of the Narandera ladies’ winter
assemblies passed off very pleasantly on Friday,
the 4th— A nice concert was given in the Masonic
Hall, Parramatta, the other evening, by the pupils
of the Maharanee school, assisted by the principal,
Miss Chester. The “ Cherubs Concerts,” sung by
16 very young cherubs was one of the gems....
Besides being good exponents of the wil-
low the members of the Osborne Cricket Club are
also a very sociable Jot of fellows. On Saturday
they proved this by giving a picnic to their friends
at Cabarita, which was thoroughly enjoyable. At
the banquet the speeches were short enough to
please the most fastidious.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall, Thurs-
day June 17
Grand Military Concert, Masonic Hall June 33
American Garden Party, Botany July 4
American Ball, Town Hall July 4


ħ
w
w
From a British Radical Standpoint.
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY ( loq.): “I SAY, MR. GLADSTONE, YOU’LL HAVE TO GO TO WAR AND KILL THAT FROG-FELLOW-HE’S ON OUR ISLANDS.”
THE GRAND OLD MAN: “NOW, MY DEAR LITTLE BOY, THE FROG ISN’T ON YOUR ISLAND, AND HE ISN’T ON MY ISLAND. BESIDES, YOU’D BETTER GO AND HIT SOMEONE
YOUR OWN SIZE.”


BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
388 and 612 GEORGE STREET.
12 CENTRAL MARKETS.
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Addreu Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-streef, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THS
Werthelm Sewing Machine.
BEALE & CO.
The " Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
Prosecute the Swindlers ! 1
If when you call for American Hop Bitters
(see green twig of Hops on the white label and
Dr. Soule's name blown in each bottle) the
vendor hands out anything but American
Hop Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor
as you would a viper ; and if he has taken
your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud, and sue him for damages for
the swindle, and we will reward you liber-
ally for the conviction.
" 1 Have Suffered.
With every disease imaginable for the last
three years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, recommending
“Hop Bitters ” to me,
I used two bottles !
Am entirely cured and heartily recom-
mend Hop Bitters to every one.
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
Counterfeiting Proves Superiority
“Although counterfeiting is one of the
greatest crimes againt the business of any
country and in many casvs—
“ Destructive of health and life!”
“ It proves beyond a doubt the”
“Superiority”—
Of the article counterfeited ;
As no inferior article is ever counterfeited
Proof of this is found in the great number
in
“Australia, England, France,
India, Belgium, Canada and the
Of counterfeits of the great remedy,
“ Hop Bitters,”
Whose name and merits are so well known
the world over that it is a
“Shining mark and favorite prey
“ For counterfeiters ! ! !”
Beware of all that does not have a green
cluster of hops on the white label.
Prosecute the Swindlers I!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for ednything else indict him
forthelraud and sue him tor damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
01
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 DUD! BALES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
tar Carriage paid by mall all over the colonic]
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The S 6 Bale system has been In operation for IS
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
AB LADY’S BALB.
® Ladies’ Chemises
•pairs Drawers
* Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
A 1 MOURNING BALB.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
8 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOYBB.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aooouohements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of JB6.
IBs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and utmii
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
Brices,8 rices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
; applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS.
166 Oxford Street, Sydney.
OHrlmton of tb» nelabratad SB R«)o« of Drcnirr
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC. STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 per cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of mrsic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
w orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &>a. ; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries. Vases, Plaques, Pans, Ash Trays.
&i3(l Tgr Trays *
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books:
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS. Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD.
m GEORGE STREET,
BRIEF MENTION.
Sir Saul Samuel has, it is cabled, been ad-
mitted to the company of Skinners. He will likely
skin Henniker Heaton.
The Allora (Q.) Guardian has given up
the ghost. In its last issue it weeps over its own
tomb, and calls itself “an insane speculation.’’
A soap factory was star ted in Hay, N.9.W.,
the other day. Since then several of the towns-
folk have been seen surreptitiously washing them-
selves.
There is discouraging news to hand con-
cerning the Kimberley, a West Australian paper
says that the native women up there wear bones
in their noses.
“ The Man in the Bank ” is the heading of
an article in a late issue of the Melbourne AGE
This should be followed by another entitled “ The
Man In the Gaol.”
Mr. J. R. Clarke complains of “ the dirty
state in which the Sydney Protestant Hall is
kept.” Uncleanliness is pretty often next to
godliness in Sydney.
We read in the London D.T.“ The old
gentleman then spun round and fell heavily in a
Bitting posture. After this he went about for
some days with his head strapped up in sticking-
plaster.” Why his head ?
A deputation of “junior female teachers”
has Interviewed the Victorian Minister for Educa-
tion on the subject of a rise of salary. Some of
these juniors were over 40 years—considerably
over. Methusaleh was a senior teacher, we
believe.
Scene, N.Q. hospital. House surgeon
“Ah, by the way, there’s Higgins’ case. There
has been a slight mistake. It was the sound leg
we cut off.” Visiting surgeon: “It’s of no conse-
quence ; we can cure the other, so it comes to the
same thing.”
The Tamworth (N.8.W.) Observer cele-
brates its tenth birthday, and the editor observes
that “ten years ago he had not a bed to call his
own and used to sleep on his press.” We have
read his paper and have concluded that he is still
ying in the press.
William Coombes, an aged Anglican
clergyman, has got two months’ giol at Sydney for
obtaining money under false pretences. We don’t
wish to be irreverent, but we emphatically assert
that all the clergy obtain money under false pre-
tences. They say there’s a hell and there isn’t.
The Western Grazier complains that
whenever the Wilcmnia Police Court is open fer
business, between 33 and 40 man are always to be
found hanging round it. Well, what of that ?
The poor fellows must have some amusement, and
—excepting getting locked up themselves—what
else is there in Wlleannia ?
Sydney Evening News cable correspon-
dent on the N.Z earthquake:—“Then there were a
fearful subterranean rambling and roaring which
Bounded as if the pent-up furies of the nether-
most hell had burst forth in all their infernal
violence.” Alfred, did all this really come by
wire?
The services of the Contingent are badly
wanted up at Bourke. That’s where glory waits
them. 1 his is what the local paper says about the
situation, anyhow' 1 ’Horses cannot be fed by
their owners on account of semi-starving goats
rushing the feed and eating harness, horses, and
all.” We trust this hint is enough.
The Municipal authorities of Wilcannia
have gone in for retrenchment. The poor town
clerk, of course, must suffer. They have reduced
his salary from £3OO a year to £3OO-something of a
crusher for a man who, probably, plays billiards
with the principal banker. We expect to hear of
him resigning one of these days in favour of a
retired working-bullock.
The Victorian Government have offered
a reward of £5O to anyone who pan prove the
death by drowning of Johan Geshard Hoogklim-
mer. If they want him drowned so badly, wouldn’t
it have been cheaper to have paid somebody £5O
to do It, and so be sure of the matter once for
Bll? But no; there wouldn’t be enough red tape
about that way of doing it to suit them.
A wretched Melbourne vagrant was taken
to the hospital the other day by a policeman and
refused admission on the ground that he was not a
fit subject, So he was committed to gaol, where
he took the earliest opportunity of dying. How
much more convenient It would have been had
the policeman taken his charge to the morgue in
the first instance, and instructed him to die right
away I
A case was tried in the Melbourne Supreme
Court the other day which turned upon the ques-
tion, “ What is timber?” The judge decided that
everything of woody substance was timber, and
fit for the axe. The man who lost the case went
out of court grumbling audibly, “If that's the
law, old covey, and I had the carryin' It out, you
wouldn’t want a wig long.” But the judge didn’t
hear him.
A Presbyterian clergyman recently told
“ Atticus,” of the Melbourne Leader, that a child
Of his declared that he liked reading the Bible
aloud. “For then, papa,” he said, “I can use
words you won't let me use at any other time.”
One of two conclusions is irresistible-either “ At-
ticus ” is a liar or the Presbyterian clergyman is a
Scotchman.
There is a pal of ours much given to being
poetical, who has, accordingly, a roundabout
method of expressing simple matters. Meeting
him the other day with a black eye, we asked him
whence it had arisen. "It is,” he said, "the
shadow of a great sorrow, which fell upon me,
the other day, in the house of the husband of a
dear friend.’
The Sydney D.T. says the pharmacopoeia
“contains no remedy for the disease from which
Mr. Sydney Smith, M.L.A , is suffering-medicines
have no power over the cacoethes loqucndi.” The
D.T. evidently knows very little aoout the phar-
macopoeia. Let us prescribe for Smith; strych-
nine, 20z.; nitric acid, 1 pint. Stir well, and then
add loz. prussic acid. One wineglassful before
breakfast.
At Derby (W.A.) town, the present port
of the Kimberley gold-field, lots have been sold at
£220 an acre. Twelvemonths ago a hymaafrom
Babylon would have refused the place at a gift,
but already the gold-find Is giving it a start in
life. Even half a year «go it was little better than
a desert. Yet now it Is rising to the dignity of a
swamp, with a whisky shop floating in tae middle,
and another year, if the new gold-field holds out,
will see It with a mayor and corporation, and a
full-grown pestilence of its own.
The S.M. Herald is indignant at the re-
ports of Russian aggressions in Afghanistan, and
denounces the “speculator ” who “ uses the Times
as an Instrument” to carry out his sinful little
games. Yet the S.M. Herald *s the paper which,
whenever there Is a dispute on a point of Euro-
pean politics or political economy, rams down our
throats a column of the Times aforesaid as though
it were [all gospel instead of pawnbrokers’ lies.
Sad to say the S.M. Herald is also used by specu-
lators—in butter. It is a favourite journal with
the retail trade.
Thus writes Jos. Symes, of Melbourne, in
commenting upon the Methodist Jubilee and
transler of the affections of that sect from the
Gospel to gold:-“A genuine Methodist can no-
where be found to-dsy—except in a mummified
condition. As tar as Methodism goes, the church
and the world are united. In business, in plea-
sures, in pastimes, in f< rgery and bank-swindling,
the Methodists can compete with their neighbours.
The clergy have acquired vast estates and mil-
lions’ worth of property; and most of their time
is spent in things more or less commercial. They
now renounce the world just in the way bishops
do—they get all they can of it. Methodism Is
dead.” This is very irreverent but very bitter.
We said much the same thing about the Anglicans
in h st issue.
There are two-and-a-quarter columns of
the Melbourne Argus of Friday week devoted to
a report of the case of Wolfe v. Alaop, concerning
schnapps. And it is the dryest report we ever
read! Two pieces of information we find in it,
however. One is that “schnapps” originally
meant as much liquor as could be taken at one
mouthful. This in the case of a free-lunoher
would, probably, mean about one imperial pint.
The other piece of information is that Schiedam is
a town in Holland containing 80 to 10) distilleries.
Thunder! what a paradise for a pressman! Let
us hope that good reporters when they die will be
Schiedamed.
Mr. Coombes, who got into trouble at the
Balmain Police Court, the other day, declared
himself to be a bush-missionary of 25 years’stand-
ing, and yet he got off with two months. In a
more civilised land a man has been executed on
the mere suspicion of being a duke, and yet this
great country has nearly completed its first cen-
THE BRUTE!
HE HAD BROUGHT HOME SOME PIG’S-TROTTERS.-“I HAVE NEVER EATEN SUCH
THINGS,” SHE SAID, PROCEEDING TO TRY ONE; “I HOPE IT’S CLEAN.”
HE: “IT’LL BE CLEAN ENOUGH WHEN YOU'VE FINISHED WITH IT.”
tury and has provided no law to suppress these
backwoods cherubim. In a few years a stockman
will hardly be able to throw a frsail at a stray cow
without hitting an object which will rise up and
ask him if he has experienced salvation, and if his
wife’s grandmother has found the Lord.
Professor Kernot, of Melbourne, says that
“one result of an expedition to the South Pole
might be that discoveries might be made which
would tend to confirm Darwin's theory of the
evolution of species, or vice versa.” There may be
something in this. It would be a rare old joke if
the regions around the Southern Pole were found
to be inhabited by a race of Missing Links. Thera
would then be a worse problem than ever for tbe
Church to worry over, viz , whether the Missing
Links had souls, and if missionaries should be sent
to them or not. And yet who knows but that,
after viewing their first visitors, they might
decide on sending missionaries to usf If they
could only see some of our members of Par-
liament 1
A Freethought-leoturer over in Victoria
complains bitterly that at Sandhurst one Sunday
night the total amount of the collection was £s—
in threepenny bits. Humph 1 We think it
quite enough for tolling people they have no
souls. Still, perhaps, a man deserves as much for
telling his audience they have no souls as for in-
forming them they have souls which will be
damned. It’s all a question of taste. Our taste
would incline to paying more to hear that
we had some sort of immortal part, even
if only Intended to be damned, than to hear
that we had none at all. There is more
picturesqueness about the former view. Besides,
we should be sorry if there was not a Sheol for
the sake of a number of people we know.
In his “ Land of the Golden Fleece ” arti-
cles, George Augustus Sala remarked that he
didn’t hear much about “bowls or skittles” in
Australia. But he could have seen much by get-
ting among the right people. There are a few
odd hundreds of respectable old gentlemen in
each of the colonies who live only to eat, drink,
play bowls, and say their prayers. During the
right season of the year G.A.S. might have been
driven round to bowling-greens, say on Saturday
afternoons. On each green he would have beheld
two perspiring Scotchmen-short of breath and
Sala-like of figure—groping about on the ground,
with from 50 to 100 other Scotchmen—all short of
breath and Sfia-llke ot figure-sitting on forms
and gazing at the aforesaid two. On the grass at
their feet G.A.S. might have beheid from 50 to 100
whisky-glasses, all more or loss empty. Didn’t
hear much about bowls! Well, if the elderly
athletes say little, ’tls because their feelings are
too deep for words.
The Melbourne Age had a leading article
on “ God,” lately. It states that “every day tbe
groping hand of science is laying bare the secrets
of life,” and wants to know, therefore, “why
should the Author of Life have determined that
He alo e shal remain an inscrutable Mystery to
the end of time?” and “why should secondary
causes be revealed to us and the Great First Cause
ensconce Himself behind an impenetrable veil ? ”
We give it up without a struggle. We pensively
“pass” it. as a conundrum, it is too much for
us. But nothing is too high or too deep, too
sacred, or too solemn for the audacious Age. We
should not be surprised to hear one of these days
that it bad sent a special reporter—duly dead—to
interview the Deity and obtain enough rough
material from Him for several columns of
picturesque biography. But there are no free
passes into Heaven, and it is too much to believe
that a reporter from that paper could enter in
any other way unless he managed to get the loan
of the Pope’s key for a few minutes. He would
have no trouble in getting out again.
Applicants for enrolment in the Austra-
lian Natives’ Association require to be possessed
of but two qualifications, of which tbe first is sub-
ject to scrutiny, and the second is taken for
f ranted. This is the Victorian rule, anyway. Mr.
ield Barrett, of Melbourne, in inviting candi-
dates to roll up, assured them that there was hot
the “least occasion for nervousness.” The Asso-
ciation puts two simple little questions: “Were
you born in this country ?’ “Are you a moder-
ately moral man ?’’ Up to the present it has been
found that all tbe men born in this country are
moderately moral. Their unanimity on this par-
ticular point we accept as an Indication of Aus-
tralia’s future grandeur. But Australian natives
must beware of overstepping the bounds of
moderation. With the shocking Adelaide ex-
amples before our eyes we wouldn’t wish our
young men to become immoderately moral. Let
them dra v the line at Scripture-texts and Sunday-
school kissing games. “Christian courtship”
would disqualify for admission to the Association
altogether.


WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNIY
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
mini.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
1
k«.
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
.Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Fig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, 4c.
iar Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmitbing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVBt” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
©
t 1
''im
.Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
from:
V
Scrofula on Necks*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old agp, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other moans absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ flow to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Pmi-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifles the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and .Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable In treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Assachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston, U.S.A.
h
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &c.
B. KOSENTHAL, Pipemakei,
1 liiltle Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
ITpHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLERBAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1873, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET
TREVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
aml other well-known Perfumes are mi- J
equalled lor their delightful and lasting odour (
ATKINSON'S EAU DE TOIIETTE DE LOKDRES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely now article
prepared exclusively hy the Inventors
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers — ;
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Hose’’ on
“v T/vrft-”
I\TERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
il STRENGTH. —A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will he happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address —“Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
694 GEORGE STREET.
W WEDDINGS. BALLS. PICNICS, AND PABTIBB A SPECIALITY.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, ko
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
saiicf
prRRIfJS
Bestir aw***!
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers sec that the Label on every bottle
hears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London , Sr'c., Src. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
'•WiD
m
m
The "LOUIS’*
' VELVETEEN. ; ‘
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OD
application* 7
4
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
BYDHJfiY..
SPECIALLY IMPORTED YOB CITY OR COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED “
American Carriage
EiiPORIUSi.
STERLING QUALITY,
A.l
LOWEST PRICES.
mums co.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
iar BVE&r vehiclb cujakaj^tekii


Marie Brizard!
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wowfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life.
An angelic creature gliding on a ball over
a well-worn bridge is scattering coins for the
allurement of a rider on horseback going at gal-
loping pace after her. Closely following is a symbol
of death similarly mounted, while at the side lies
the neglected and deceased wife. Such is a brief
description of a picture hanging in Bray Bros,
window, near King-s-reet, named “The Pursuit
of Fortune.” It is a copy of one of the treasures
in the Berlin Art Gallery.*
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard!
THE ADVANTAGES OF OUR ESTABLISH-
MENT.
1. Prices cheap as a lottery. 3. New Woollens
elegant as a Binging girl. 3. Cutters handsome as
they are skilful. 4. TweeSs tough as elephant’s
hide. 5. Customers treated as politely as by the
rival steamship companies. 6. Orders dispatched
as expeditiously as a cannon ball.' 7. Parcels done
up with as much care as that bestowed on her
husband by a loving wife. 8. The ether advan-
tages. derived from dealing with SUMMERFIELD
and COMPANY. Merchant Tailors, 335 and 337,
Pitt-street, Sydney, are too many for language to
express.*
Marie Brizard I
About the best thing you can take is
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps. Only those who never
used the genuine article are imposed upon.
Marie Brizard 1
Never Travel Without It;
Wanted in Every House.
MB
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES.
COCKROACHES. V® RA* AND IS
AT THE SAME: TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOGS
FOWLS O R OTH ERS
ANIMALS
&
ll s
$
cl
ĥ
CHEMISTS j
AND STOREKEEPERS!
WHOLESAI.E
FELTON-GRIMWADEUC?
- MELBOURNE I
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
<h
Oi
3D
m
cr>
ro
o
O
cT
m
O
09
\o
V*'. J
0
SPECIALITIES:
Davis * Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
A I bo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking StovesLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVINGJPUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL immiß
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
la Now OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, SO per cent, less than
Sydney prices.
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, S/6, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/. 80/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
■ ■
ACCORDIANS,
at 1/6,10/6 12/6.15/, 11/6.
21/-. 25/-, 80/-, 40/-, to £6
Speciality: The miniature Melodian, 31/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-,
10/6. 15/-. 20/-, 25/-, 80/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-,
ħ
CORNETS," 4 *-■•SslSs
Specialities: The new “ Levy ” model,
with water hey £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 910 0
The new “ Reynolds” Eoho-
attachment Cornet .. 13 10 0
Prom 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Speciality: The 8-keylCocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/-
»v\
M
THE BYIIPHONETTEI
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-,
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjc.
£3 3s.
JST" Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Nigger Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, flageolets,
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every dess
of Musical Instrument, from a
k’skftnUOip
MUSIC I MUSIC I MUBIOI
200,000 copies New and Popular Music, published
at 3/-, 4/-, and 5/-, sold at 9d. per copy.
£5 Worth of Music for £ll
All Instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONBEN,
Manages.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Hajesfy the Quean,
H.fLHihe Prince of Wales ,
H.M. the King \of the Netherlands.
Agents for New South Wales
HJ.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MAHOMET STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
B
a
f'nt
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 10 and ii inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED;,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £solnthe Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, i Park-st.
J. V. WARBHAM, Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are admitted by thou,
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
nCss,scurvy, blotches oa
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'cs of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according, to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to proVe that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beegham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
directions are given with each box.
PATENT
PILLS.
“THERE IS A PROVIDENCE WHICH SHAPES OUR ENDS.”-(Shakespeare.)


It is much better not to drink at all if you
Cannot obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
We think it was Sir Patrick Jennings who
said In speaking of the Post Office carvings “ they
have a peculiar fascination for the eye, one could
not help looking at them.” This certainly Is a
point In favour of retaining them as an advertise-
ment both for the building and the artist. Fascin-
ating the eye is one of the primary objects of life,
and it is the continual study lof the business man,
for example notice the efforts of Bray Bros, in
this direction. Their windows, opposite the Joiut
Stock Bank, we venture to; say, are the most ad-
mired and fascinating in the city.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Marie Brlzardl
BE NOT AFRAID.
Be not afraid
To give expression to a noble thought
Because the world may sneer and cry, “’Tls
naught,”
And may upbraid.
Be not afraid
To do the thing that conscience tells is right;
The way is hard, but ’tls not always night;
Thou’lt be repaid.
Be not afraid
To battle, sometimes, on the losing side;
The victory of truth o’er wrong and pride
Is but delayed.
Be not afraid
T o discard credit, buy for cash
Summer Sell's suits, and do a mash,
So well they’re made.
Marie Brizard I
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular anci fat producing
elements —Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd fl sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
® digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cpd Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c,
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in, the ordinary manner.
One ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
' Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
I p s '
flfl
m
FROM
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGEWT
93*
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: It
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes. •
ROWLANDS’ RALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples. &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces Immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Howlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J, BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Xji:n.o:n. Crloss
-A.-brala.a,33Q.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical er-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Imm edlate relief.
4.84 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
CisiviAlN, & SPEEDY CURJlior Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
Shat Bpring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
L’ooihache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
kp petite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
£O. By Its tonlo and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments. MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE nour-
lehei and gives rigour t« the whole system.
Price, is. «d.. or 255. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Market-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations Illegal, TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-falling remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may bo used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world- wide-fame for the last fifty years Is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvoßous virtues.
Manufactured only at ?8 New Oxeobd BT,, London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
DR. BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
B I T T E R S.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi-
cines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA,
o
Butcher, Fehon & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
\/>
o«meoßFs
jsmgMyys;l
o
THERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloylng Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause Incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 135., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLSS, We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I»rice la. 3d.
C. f, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
t sm
pi
JjjSt'-
“HE LAY LIKE A WARRIOR TAKING HIS REST.”
The papers in the Spalding-Airey (N.S.W.-Contingent-in-the-Soudan) enquiry, long
withheld have now been published. It is alleged they carried him thusly off the tented
field for the above reason.


Positive, Captain Webb was drowned;
comparative. Captain Webber was not drowned;
superlative, Captain Webb est.
When the vital system has been weakened
—use Wolfe's Schnapps to renovate it.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral) decorations, 60>£ Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Marie Brizardl
Thousands in London, through the Colonial
and Indian Exhibition, have learnt to value the
colonies, and wonder at its resources as they roam
through the courts at Kensington. Bringing ex-
hibits right before the eyes of some is tlie only
way of making them understand what treasures
there are previously unknown to them. So in an
establishment like Bray Bros, attention is there
drawn to art works in china, glass, and earthen-
ware, and many visitors have remarked, ‘Such
beautiful things 1 never saw or heard of before.
Bray’s exhibition is open every day but Sundays
and public holidays, and'you are invited*
Wolfe's Schnapps has become the mos
popular drink throughout the Colonies.
TESTED BY
R. COLLETT, M. A., F. R.A. S.
From the Birmingham Chronicle.
The distinguished journalist, George Augustus
Sala, in a letter from Australia, published in the
London Daily Teh graph, alludes to the fact that
the Royal MaII Steamship (which carried him from
San Francisco to Sydney), had amongst its cargo
several tons of St. Jacob's Oil. As this medicinal
Oil has also recen ly been largely imported into
Great Brifa'n, we were carious with regard to Its
efficacy.
We desired Dr. Coliett, M.A, FRA.S., of
Leicester, to test its utility, and to our surprise he
has proved it to be effectual in the absolute cure
of rheumatism, neuralgia, rheuma ic gout, and
other complaints, and states that it is the most
speedy and sure remedy that has come under his
notice; and if it were adopted by the general
EabJlc it would prove the greatest source of
appiness and comfort to many afflicted homes.
So satisfied was he with its «fflcacy that he at once
drew the attention of his brother, the Rev. j. G.
Collett, of tbe Yorkshire Nonconformist College,
Leeds, to the same: and he, knowing many needed
such a remedy, at once recommended the same,
and to his satisfaction found it answered in each
case to which it was applied, and It has become the
remedy adopted by the College authoritys for
rheumatism, as well as for sprains, bruizes, &o ,
thstmsy be received in the cricket and foottall
fields and other places. Not ot ly so, but Mr.
George Bellhouse, of the Birm Ingham Fire Brigade,
certifies that the members of the Fire Brigade
have received great benefit from the use of St.
Jacob’s Oil, in oases of severe pains in the back
and knees: he also states that tender feet and
other painful ailments have been immediately
cured by its adoption. Not only does he say it is
good for the members of the Brigade, but for
their families, who praise the oil very highly for
neuralgia and kindred complaints, a few applica-
tions only being nece’sary to effect entire cures.
The reason we take such interest is that we
noticed in the London Sunday Times and in variou
medical journals, articles with reference to this
remedy; and we investigated the case of a former
employee of Messrs. Davey and Moore, who are
celebrated as bottle and stoneware manufacture: s.
This person, after trying various physicians, ard
many medicines (some of which were supplied from
sst. Mary’s Hospital) without effect, and being pro-
nounced by the chief medical authorities Incurable,
and having suffered over s ! x years, was admitted
to tne Buxton Hospital, where, after six weeks’
medical treatment, which Included the use of
mineral waters and baths, he obtained no relief
w hatever. After trying all the remedial measures
advised by friends and others, he could only move
about on sticks and crutches, and experienced in-
tense pain. B/ this time his joints had become
greatly swollen, the sensation being as though
some sharp instrument was passing through him.
The physicians who attended him stated that he
would be an invalid as long as he lived. A casual
acquaintance in the Infirmary informed him of the
remedy called St. Jacob’s Oil, which he applied,
and to his astonishment he found it to effect a
thorough cure This case has also been person-
ally verified by the writer of this article, who has
not the least interest in the promotion of St.
Jacob’s Oil.
It is soljJy for the benefit of the public that we
write the foregoing, and as many people need a
remedy for the cure of their ailments, either con-
tracted or hereditary, it is with coriflderce and
sincere pleasure that we recommend this astonish-
ing curative agent.
DR. SCOTT’S GENUINE
ELECTRIC BELTS
Have established a reputation all over the world, for strength,
combined with lightness, for healing with ease and safety.
All in search of health should wear Dr. Scott's Genuine
Electric Kelt for Ladies and Gentlemen, to promote the circula-
tion, to stimulate the organic action, to renew vital energy,
and assist digestion.
&a*aS&J3f£/i
I
Universally approved by the leading physicians as the best,
safest, and most effectual remedy for spinal complaints,
incipient consumption, diarrhoea, pleurisy, tumors, asthma,
bronchitis, e.pllepsy, lumbago, debility, rheumatism, gout,
sciatica, loss of vigour, dropsy, paralysis, loss of voice,
hysteria, cutaneous diseases,nervousness, indigestion,palpi-
tation, constipation, &o.; and has cured some of the most
obstinate and distressing cases, after all other remedies so
called have failed. They are constructed on scientific prin-
ciples, imparting an exhilarating, health giving current to
the whole system. Professional men assert that there is
hardly a disease which electricity or magnetism may not
benefit or cure.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Belts, 15s; post free, 18s.
Dr Scott’s Electric Corsets for ladies, Gs fid, 8s fid, 10s fid,
15s; postage, 5s extra.
From all Chemists and Storekeepers, or free by rail or
steamer to any port or railway station in U S.W., or Queens-
land Is fid extra.
Beware of fraudulent and worthless imitations made up to
trade upon our reputation. Send tor Illustrated circular to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION',
P.O. Box 221. 51 Margaret Street, Sydney-
DR. SCOTT’S GENUINE
ELECTRIC CORSETS
have established a deserved reputation beyond
that of all other Corsets for comfort, elegance,
durability, and excellence of material. In addition
to all those advantages, they possess more Electro-Mag-
netism and thorough healing and invigorating power than
any other Electric or Magnetic appliances in the world,
however high prised. Our prices are 6/6, 8/6, 10/6,
and 15/ ; nursing, 8/6 ; abdominal, 15/- 2/6 extra
for sizes above 30. From all Chemists and Store-
keepers. or free to anv port or railway station in
Now South Wales, or
Queensland 1/6 extra,
by mail to any address
5/- extra. All our Cor-
sets are beautifully
woven from latest
Paris models, are
double stitched and
have tipped steels and
lock clasps, combined
with our patent solid
hack spinal steels,
through which the eye-
lets are riveted. For
weak hacks, spinal,
kidney and liver trou-
bles, rheumatism, and
other weaknesses pe-
culiar to woman, our
Corsets have ho equal.
A beautiful silvered compass with which to test
their electro-magnetic power acconrpanies each
Corset. Dr. Scott's Electric Hair Brushes for Headache
and Neuralgia 5/-, 7/3, 9/6,11/6, 13/6. Dr. Soott’s Elec-
tric Tooth Brush 2/6; Dr. Soott’s Electric Flesh Brush 13/6;
Dr. Soott’s Elootrio Insoles 2/6; Dr. Soott’s Electric Teeth-
ing Necklace 2/6; Dr. Soott’s Electric Curlers 2/5.
All chemists and storekeepers, or post free Is. extra.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.O. BOX 221. 51 Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Beware of fraudulent and worthless imitations designed to
trade upon our reputation, and send for illustrated circular.
r
A SONG OF SMITH.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
Verbatim from the Sydney Morning Herald;—
“ Smith.—April 11, 1886, at Benvue, Dowanhlll
Gardens, Glasgow, James Smith, aged 70 years.
This was the gentleman who spoke so highly of
the New South Wales Contingent that he met in
the Soudan.” "He soohe hi ably of the New South
Wales Contingent." Let this be written upon bis
tomb, and let the nations stand bareheaded before
it. Also unchain our most dangerous bard, and
dust him, and head him up to it. So. Now listen.—
All the souls that are seething in Sheol,
All the damned of the ages gone by,
Through the fourfold dread iron-floor’s keyhole
Will hear Heaven’s glad welcoming cry
When, released from the sordid and stringent
Cold trammels of clay, the proud ghost
Of the party who praised the Contingent
Is made one of that shining host.
All the Tartarean deeps of damnation
Will reel, all the gulfs of blind night
To their depths will confess the vibration
Of that wild-voiumed yell of delight—
In Gehenna’s dark nadir that thunder
Will boom and re-echo and die,
And the sad, singed, fierce devils will wonder
What the blazes they’re up to on high.
In the dimness of infinite caverns,
In full many a fissure and cleft,
Even as Christians assemble at taverns.
All the spectres who strolled to the left
Where the Fiend is a pitiless master
Of the dun lurid regions of woe,
And each day has the coke rammed in faster,
And each day finds the stokers too slow—
I n the murky and pestilent gorges
Where the worst of Heil’s spirits hold sway,
Where sulphureous and napthaline orgies
I* Are held while the Boss is away,
Where, amid wild carousals unhallowed
To some hateful and blasphemous toast.
Bubbling beakers of vitriol are swallowed
By each ravening, thirst-tortured ghost.
When they feel the drear crags rock and tremble.
And their ears catch that cry from afar,
To surmise and debate will assemble,
Even as men at a threepenny bar,
Will they think in their grim isolation
That In heaven they’ve heard Hsnniker’s speech
About Postage, or given an ovation
To some music-hall movement of Beach ?
Will they judge that, because great Lord Garnet
Backs up Ulster, Olympus applauds ?
Or the carvings well loved by our Barnet
Have at last been observed by the gods ?
Will they guess that some much-pensioned mother
Has given high heaven cause to hooray
And exult (being there ) that another
Young princelet has just seen the day ?
What they’ll think la that dismal dominion
Of the wonderful noise, who can tell ?
But ’tia well known that public opinion
At times grows quite heated in hell;
So ’tis likely enough, while one legion
Of devils maintains that the sound
That has pierced to the horrible region
Where all tortures and terrors abound—
Where the evil ones shrivel and stifle,
And the voice of pain never is dumb,
Has been caused by the sudden arrival
Of the Harmy in heaven, with Its drum,
Which has wholly demoralised squadrons
Of angels, and filled them with scorn
Of the harp, as unsuited for moderns
When compared with the masterful horn;
Made them find the poor lyre weak and charmless,
And made each angel go in alone
(Angels hitherto decent and harmless)
At the marrow-compelling trombone,
Till there rolled through the crystalline gardens
This unspeakable aural eclipse,
Wrung from hard and tyrannic bombardons
Blown by billions of millions of lips;
Yet another will stoutly ascribe it
To the voice of the Clovelly Knight,
Ripping out a pre-Adamite gibe at
Some opposing old pre-Adamite;
And a third will assert on its honour
(Very flippant this phrase and absurd),
It was simply the Jaynial O'Connor
Getting off a ten-syllable word I
Let them wrangle and curse—let them fix it
Down below as they choose. Happy Smith,
When Siint Peter cries out, “ Ipse D'xit ! ”
Through Elysium’s unspeakable width,
Shoals of white-winged souls emancipated,
Who float round la realms over the sun,
Will acclaim In one chorus, elated
At the prodigy you’ve took and done.
There are written all through the sad pages
Of the solemn and sorrowful past,
Talcs of martyrs pent up in cold cages—
Tales of martyrs in furnaces cast.
All the old lion-hearted aspirants
Who sought but the rewards of the gods.
On the earth were down-trodden by tyrants,
And down-smitten with pitiless rods.
Over ways that were stony and sterile,
Their poor tortured torn feet went along -
Through dark seasons of sorrow and peril,
Through dread mazes of menace and wrong—
They groped on to the fair goal and won it.
Crowned with trials and troubles untold—
Bur, the cool style in wh ch you have done it
Will s nrprise all the martyrs of old.
Did you wear shirts of rawhide, and tread in
Tight boots full of gravel and tacks ?
DW you keep angry hedgehogs your bed in,
Armed with hostile and virulent backs ?
Did you dwell in a cave and eat thistles.
And drink deep of the brook that ran by.
While the rest of the world wet their whistles
With good beer, and grew fat upon pie ?
Did you haunt some harsh mountain’s bleak
summit
As a self-condemned vessel of woe,
And seek hard for thrice ten years to “come it”
As a saint, like some others we know ?
Did you live a life selfish, and barren,
And bitter, of vigil and fast.
Till you knew, as a face, every star in
The sky, to wlu Heaven at last ?
Not to any extent that we know of
Did you put on much frill, or aspire
To be sainted, or otherwise show off
As possessing a virtue far higher
Thau your neighbour had. What was your story
Ere you had Issued forth from the gloom
To a shining and separate glory,
Through the words graven in gold on your
tomb ?
We may never discover, but this is
Very likely, your life was the same
As most lives that know hitters and blisses,
And we think you’ll admit that your name,
Not being novel, had never been noted
From, the myriads of Smiths, had not these
Gracious words that you uttered been floated
Out to us from far over the seas ?
It is probable that your existence
Had not over been heard of out here,
Had you not sent a voice from the distance
That la music to our martial ear.
Ah I your name was a clog, but how silly
"You got over that fault of your birth—
You just cracked our Contingent up highly,
And won Heaven, and grew famous on earth I
THIS WICKED WORLD .
“ How to get siok,” is the heading of a
paragraph In the Riverine Evening Stab. The
answer, of course, is—read the Star. But they
give another answer....A Dunedin (N.Z.) clergy-
man made a passing allusion in his sermon to
Thomas Carlyle, and an old lady rose and requested
him in violent terms not to mention that heathen.
The parson retorted by advising her to adjourn to
a lunatic asylum and have a shave, whereupon she
immediately left The American papers satirise
Senator Hoare, because they say he spouts his
speeches before a glass so as to attain a better
delivery. In N.S.W. some politicians do very
much otherwise. They spout their gush after
about 30 glasses, and the result is awful. Hence
Thompson’s motion In the Assembly Some
sportive West Australians are in difficulties,
through having emptied a quantity of subsoil
drainage over a rev. shepherd who was seeking
stray sheep in the wilderness.... There are nearly
800 old men in Liverpool (N.S.W.) Benevolent
Asylum A country paper in N.Z. has been
twice sold over poetical obituary announcements.
This draws from It the following :—“Persons bring-
ing death notices to this office too late at night for
verification will have to be accompanied by the
deceased, not necessarily for publication, but as a
guarantee of good faith.” The Queensland Ex-
ecutive Is going to hang another Chinese murderer,
Wong Tong, who will swing next Monday. The
Queensland Government never spares anybody
A Southern paper reports that a “gentlemanly
looking body ” has come ashore from the wreck of
the Ly-ee-M00n....A Salvationist declared in a
speech the other day that “ he was poured out like
water in the sands.” Could he not gather himself
up and put himself in a jug? —Local option
pumps are the newest idea. When the barman
works the handle a steady stream of beer is the
result, but when a revenue-officer grabs this alco-
holic cow by the tail, all he can extract is water... At
Hergott, a large stream of water is being obtained
from an old bore. The old bores in the N.S.W.
Assembly only supply wind Under the heading
of “ A Kindly Action,” the Western Champion
(Q.) tells how a station-manager stopped shearing
for half a day because one of the hands had died.
He also stopped payment for half a day. Where
does the kindness come in? ..At Wiicannia a
man brought up on suspicion of lunacy was “ dis-
charged with a caution.”
f@Nl£l
SlHilLLlN©
M
"The Lithgow Miners’, and the Ly-se-
Moon Disaster Relief Funds are miserably
supported.”—Sydney daily paper.
CHARITY, THY NAME (IN N.S.W.) IS "BOB."
Half-a-million c Alien?, men, women, and
children, are employed in the English mines, and
last year over 1100 were killed, and nearly 90.000
injured. At this rate the army of colliers will
need renewal almost every tl?e years. We don’t
often hear of mluc-owneis, ground-lessors, or
shareholders, being hi led by accidents in the
mines . .Such charges as £3 15 1. for a pair
new strings for a bonnet, £5 for re-trim-
mlng a child’s hat, figured in a recently-disputed
Parisian milliner’s account. “Has your mistress
lost her fortune, that she is growing ecmomloal ? ’
was the insolent query of the modiste as she
handed the servant the receipted bill. ...Said Mme.
de Sevigne: “One loves to talk of one’s self so
much that one never tires of a Ute aUte with a
lover for years. This is the reason why a devotee
likes to be with her confessor. It is for the plea-
sure of talking of one’s self, even though speak-
ing evil.” The only thing that a man ever
loses by politeness is his seat in a tram-car....A
new version. “It’s awful—awful I ” groaned
Smith, with despair in his voice; “note due to-
morrow-two hundred pounds—can’t pay it.
What on earth I’m to do is more than I know.
“Why not let the other fellow walk?” inquired
Brown. "Let the other fellow walk?” “Car.
tainly. Why not?’’ “Why not?” repeated
Smith, striding up and down in great nervous ex-
citement; “he is walking. I'm the other fe110w.”...
The Arab horse is not broken until his fourth
year. That’s where they differ from tea-cups.
But then, Arab horses are not washed by the
average kitchen-girl.... An English race horse
has been named "Joe Chamberlain.” The colt is
by Discord out of Vanity. Neat, this ..." I am
afraid,” said the stranger, with a three days’ beard
upon him, as he was being lathered, “I am afraid
that I ought to have been shaved yesterday.”
"Never mind, sir,” said the imperturbable one*
narrowly inspecting his razor, “it’s all bound to
come off if the handle don’t break.” And then the
shavee gritted his teeth, and the deadly struggle
commenced—The latest Irish bull is that Mr.
Gladstone’s laurels will be principally composed
of shamrocks Jefferson Davis, ex-President of
the Confederate Republic, is making a progress
through the principal cities of the Southern
States. Everywhere a grand reception is being
awarded this poor old shadow of the past
In Mexico debtors may be arrested the
very day their little kites fall due, and if
they cannot liquidate they are sent down into the
silver mines to work there till the debts are wiped
out. The debtor is generally wiped out first....
The originator of the current fashion of birds in
headgear was a Parisian mondaine. The extremest
length yet reached by this brutal custom is the
composing of a circlet for a young girl’s brow
from the heads of 30 bobolinks, woodpeckers,
wrens, kingfishers, and other decapitated beauties
of the forest and the seashore... The well-known
Hungarian duellist, Pfennyi, has just celebrated
his 35th duel by a unique banquet. Only those
were invited who could prove that they had
fought In six duels. The O’Gorman Mahon, who
had fought 33 duels, was the only qualified
Britisher. Many heroes of note were present,
some with faces covered with sears, others minus
an ear, and others again without an eye, or with
two or three fingers missing. The least present-
able of all the guests was a French gentleman
who had lost his nose in a combat with M. An-
drassy. The “six-duels ” qualification was strictly
adhered to, except in one Instance, that of a lady
who had actually killed her man—whether by the
fire of her eyes or by her pistol was not stated
Only one Knight Grand Cress of the Order of the
Guelphaof Hanover still survives—the Duke of
Cambridge—the last of his companions baviag
been the late Lord Falkland. The order was in-
stituted by the Prince Regent, and is a memorial
of the delusion, under which he laboured till the
hour of his death, that he had been present at the
battle of Waterloo, and, under the name of General
Brook, had led a tremendous charge of the Ger-
man Legion The Tilbury Docks. London, were
, formally opened the other day, after having been
three years in course of construction. During
that time the loss of life among those who have
been employed is truly astounding. No lees than
900 men have been killed—“ greatly by their
own fault, no doubt,” calmly says a Tory
paper—and 3JOO have been seriously Injured....
“ A little story comes from the confessional box
of an English ritualistic church. Father A. (to a
fair society penitent): “But, my daughter, you
have confessed the same fault three times lately;
how is that?” Fair sinner: “No, my father—in-
deed, I have never confessed it before.” Then
followed a pause and a few moments of reflection
on the part of Father A., and then the good man
exclaimed: “No, I’m mistaken; It must have been
your sister.”.. .The Mayor of Ghateauueux has
been condemned to 50 francs flue and damages for
calling a certain Alsatian “a Russian.” The
judge, a Frenchman, of course, held that the
epithet was une injure.... Mrs. Langtry and M.
Lefebre were to play In French at the Prince’s
Theatre, London, May 34... .The Primrose League*
tersely says “ Dagenet,” is a success just as the
Salvation Army la a success. It appeals to the
same class of Intellect.... In England, a plaintiff in
a breach of promise ease obtained a verdict for
£lO. As she was a widow, and a laundress, an un-
sympathetic jury assessed the value of her affec-
tions at a very low rate Uncle Mose (swinging
a water bucket around his head): Lemme ’splain
hit ter yer. Dish heah bucket am de sun, and my
bead am de yarf. De bucket, when hit goes round
and round, sheds light on de inhabitants ob my
head. Does yer onderstan’ ? ” —ln Salt Lake City
a man can not only marry his deceased wife’s sister,
but he can marry bis own sister without waiting
for her to be deceased. Yet there are 31 bishops
doing a perpetual hurdle race in pursuit of Mor-
mon souls in that one city alone. If there were a
dozen more bishops a man would be allowed to
marry his own mother... About 301,000,000 Bibles
have been published iu India during the last 10
years. They are mostly used in the police courts
for the purpose of taking Tamil and Gujeratl
oaths previous to the usual eruption of perjury...
Ex-President Arthur has sunk into hopeless hypo-
chondria. Ho eats nothing but baked applts —
Mr. Labouchere lost £lll in bets through the
defeat of the Irish Home Rule Bill; £lO of this
went to Mr. Ashmead-Birtlett—The latest N.Y.
sensation is a beautiful atd unique mammoth
rose. This peerless rose Is described as being fully
as large as a medium-sized cauliflower, having a
deep yet brilliant sea-shell-pink hue, and yielding
an exquisitely delicate perfume Dr. Noah Por-
ter, the we’l-known American lexicographer, who
is revising” Webster’s Dictionary,” has announced
that the elegant and expressive words, “ masher,”
"dude,” and “boycott,” will appear in the new
edition A reoont American visitor to the Pope
was polite enough to enquire after his wife and
family A coloured man was hanged in Texas
on 3nd May, in the presence of 5000 persons, for a
murder committed a year previously. He con-
fessed bis guilt, and said it was right he should
be hanged. He exhibited great nerve. He rode
on his coffin from the gaol to a grove near the
edge of the town, where the scaffold was erected.
He said he wanted his body to be burled in the
adjoining county, and passed his hat around for
contributions to defray the expenses of transpor-
tation. He collected £5, for which he heartily
thanked the donors.
