

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
t
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
omg THE ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Ur el B e t .°a C nn^Vl tifarious and comprehensive in a wonderful degree, supplying every want and meeting every requirement. We contribute something to enhance the natural
c ot the femmiDe form; we assist in a most economical fashion in mixing the Early Tea and the Late Coffee; and in the Mincer represented we add a most useful
article to the household machinery.
,.///—x-.
r
\. )
“\3: %{
ﬁnk: ‘ ‘ V a.“
4x ,Wﬂlmﬂlﬂhm
{.M
W “"311"
ﬂy“ fliggiisum'” “ 1h
n- ‘V‘ M ‘ ‘h [HIE]
“ "5— v " 131‘ng 77
The Napoleon
Spirit Stove.
Stove 7d, Kettle 6cl
Complete, Is Id.
TEA AND COFFEE
IN
HALF A MINUTE.
THIN BUSTS
PERFECTED.
The A. H. and S.-~3s. 3d.
The Emporium -4» »d.
PALACE
COESETS.
mm
The Palace -3s. lid.
The Haymarket—ss. 6d.
/
/
Sponge’s Enamelled Mincers,
JVo. 1,6 s. 6d. 2,10 s. 3, 13 s. 6<l.
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, IS CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
Household Fixings of every kind are best bought at THE I'ALICE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.
■ >
. i
Weigh Everything,
including
THE CONSEQUENCES.
FAIRBANKS
Champion Scales.
Will weigh from }{oz. to 2401b5.
Price, 1»8. Oil.
T Av BRY’B counter scales.
Sh “lbs, '4s. 9<i; 141bs, 6s ; 281bs, 10s ;
s Gibs, 13s. 6d.
*CI
01 Wei{?i t t s> 411»s down to Hnz , 2s. the Set.
UT3";
•v.:.
Palace Granite
TOILET SET,
viz.:
1 each Jugr, Basin. Brush, and Soap Tray,
3 Chambers- 7s. 6d-, complete.
A BEAUTIFUL CHOICE of TOILET
WAKE.
" Prevention is better
than Cure,”
and without implying anything
derogatory of Sydney water, we
can strongly reoommend
CHEAVfN’S
FILTERS.
sor*TZ
r CHEAVIN's
IMPROVED PATENT
OiaXCKAL S!LF QLIivNINC
MMPIO WATER FILU
0N CKCUP^
fclpiiiiiifSPS!
03 D
Our prices are lower than those of any other Sydney House.
00 0 l *
17 S ;30s. 425. 50s.
\[y' gj* 3K 5 o tails.
* Larger sizes in proportion.
If


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DWK6 HEAR, Brass & Nicksfl-platad SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, So.
|®“ Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, CoppersmitMng,,Blaeksmithiog
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleetrie and Pneumatic Bell-Atting
of every description. *
DGULTQN’S "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
mm AGCORO WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydnoy.
Full particulars and price on application
&
<b
Makers to the Queen
i
Genuine
Economical 4
/fk
-7 - V :
m
BSE
>
W*CSS*
*:C.V
y*
'-y*s
-i*'
t
Sft&iak
mmm
mux
■ m
■. s SEE
&
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from ®3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEBT WORKS M PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLI! AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
CALL A
§
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS. BALLS. PICNICS. AND PARTIES A, SPECIALITY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W.;
Alao, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
er moist stocFln tee coiokie s
STAB & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mms Hotel is centrallv r“ listed, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c
Hr Simerior Aecommodauon lor Families and Commercial Gentlemen. Jbirst-class Wines and Spirit*
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
107 Pitt- street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND RIIRBSHMJSNT ROOMS FOR LA DIBS AND QINTLBMIN.
HEMS, and CD,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
m, mm, d in but;
Importers ot
STEAM ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINES?
RAlL^A^x^sT>9r^?^ CON JS^ CTOR8 ’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS3’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAS, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IKON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSKWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
rv
-y'
BfilJ
hU
“‘f
"ggr^r
L^alm
Hi,
PORTABLE, JIXjS
and SBMI-i’IXBD J»'
GINKS
VERTICAL and HOB 1 '
ZQNTAL BOILED
team
PUMPS
and
LATHES, PLANII^;
SHAPING, SCKB«;
{ ING, and DRILLING
.. MACHINES
STEAM HAMMBBS
ENGINEERS’
i FOUNDRY
'patent sow* 11
. SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, *O.
U‘ Price mm and Catalogues furnished on Ippuoum
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & l
Head Warehouse - - - - M YORK STREET.
Iron an'l Implement Yard - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, _
Bulk Store: - - - - HARBOUR STREET. DARLING L
SYDNEY:
Mutton one. - - - - HI GMOIORUBUH awn-r.
Alex. Borthwick. «.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. U aS5 '
2SI ©eorge-st., S3rd.3n.e3r.
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
HT* Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian It el ish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts flue custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, la.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear's
Grease Oil, for covering bald patcnes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2j. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & GO.,
177, 208 and 206 PITT STREET.
DENTISTS »
133 ELI ZABETII ST
hkec/
I
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINI
4
engines;
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCK!
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
AT
LOWEST COST!
CRANES
and
HOISTING
engines.
lawn
mowers-
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, &>-
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
:rt cooper wee
SOLE "AGENT
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne:
22, KING STREET
K.
M
T H O
JLF may be consulted o < „ nt \os e '
Nervous Debility, Hkin arid Contagious Aff/cv
Medical Establishment, 203 'Eiizabttb-stre
tsear Bathurst-sl rett:
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medb a* man ad
In Australia who hes pi ssed the deyrefsoi »
lish F'bysioian and Surgeon. B*aminstloi>s \ u,flhi
- Licentiate of the Hoyol College of » "y^' 0 O'
Lon ion, Member of the Koval Oon es
Buiveous, London, 1659.


THE BLLETIN
Vol 3 —No 144 -New Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1886.
3^o9—ea.
The Teficit and Protection.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1886.
Thh Chief Justice of New South Wales has
anticipated the debate on the financial pro-
posals of the Government. While the dis-
cussion stood postponed for a week, Sir
James Martin interposed his advice , under
the form of criticism of a lecture on Free-
trade delivered by a young barrister. At that
lecturo Sir Henry Parses occupied the
chair, and made some remarks, which the
Chief Justice, in his capacity of citizen-cor-
respondent, characterised as “rhodomon-
tade,’' and the audience who expressed by
applause their concurrence with the lecturer
and his chairman Sir James thought proper
to denounce as “open-mouthed idiots!’
Evidently the Chief Justice is deeply
inoensed at something or somebody. Os-
tensibly his concern is that the Go-
vernment have not seized the occasion
of the present condition of the public
finances to introduce a Protective Tariff.
His Honor, in fact, evidently wishes to be
accepted as a devoted champion of Protec-
tion. We think his attempt to assume that
character requires to be scrutinized very
jealously by all true Protectionists. Careful
perusal of Sir James’ letters, and a little
consideration of past circumstances, must,
in fact, lead to the conviction that it is not
an ardent conviction of the efficacy of Pro-
tection which has stung His Honor to his
present outburst. In the first place it is an
admitted axiom that no import can be
simultaneously efficacious for revenue and
lor protection. Now, Sir James Martin
breaks ground by pretending to be con-
vinced that the true solution of our pres-
ent problem is to get revenue by im-
posing import duties. That is to say,
that the deficit can be extinguished
provided there are large continuous impor-
tations to be taxed. This proposition is un-
answerable. The deficit could be so extin-
guished under these conditions. But Sir
Jambs proceeds to argue, secondly, that the
imposition of such duties would develope
native industries. This proposition is also
incontrovertible—although by the enemies
of Protection often denied. But, obviously,
the protection to local industry would be
proportionate to the efficacy of the duties in
stopping importations—in other words, to
the inefficacy of the duties as regards wiping
off the deficit.
* * *
The honest advocate of Protection does
hot attempt to betray the cause by prepos-
terous contradictions of this kind. He ad-
mits frankly that protective duties have
failed in their operation if they prove fer-
tile sources of Customs revenue. And,
further, he declines to sidle in his principles
under any disguise. These are, he main-
tains, capable of standing on their own
afrits. His position is that the exigencies
.of/t&e revenue collector, and the advantages
•Qfigi protectionist policy, are distinct and
;S epai!{u(» affairs. The object of Protective
•duties is ito enable the local manufacturer to
-get good prices,—to command his own
markets to the exclusion of foreign makers,
and consequently to be able, by paying high
Wages, to create and sustain an urban popu-
lation of well-to-io artizans and mechanics.
He does not deny, as Sir James Martin does,
that Protection tends to raise the prices of
'the pommodities affected. He admits can-
didly that such must, in the generality of
be the effect; but he claims, with a good
*h e art, that the compensating advantages
are such as fully recoup a community for
the outlay. +
People have often professed themselves
puzzled why in new countries Protec-
tion and Democracy go hand in hand.
This enigma is worthy of careful examina.
tion. The reason for the alliance is not
difficult or really obscure, any more than
the professed partiality of Sir James Martin
for Protection at this juncture is. The true
and essential effect of Protective duties in a
new country is to sever the nascent com-
munity from the evil influences of existing
social and economic conditions in ill-or-
ganised old-world States. Granting that
Protection increases the cost of commo-
dities, the Democratic Protectionist says it
is well it should be so, because that is simply
equivalent to granting that Protection
tends in new countries to equalise con-
ditions. The labourer, in fact, is enabled
by this method to secure a fairer propor-
THE HON. ADYE DOUGLAS,
The Patriotic Tasmanian Premier, who is not afraid to speak his mind.
tion of his real earnings than he otherwise
could. So long as there be unrestricted
commercial intercourse between the colo-
nies of Australia and the countries of the
old world, the tendency must be, in manu-
facturing pursuits, to assimilate the rates of
wages in the two regioris. This tendency is
qualified by other influences, it is true, of
which the agrarian condition is the chief,
but still it operates. Thus, while in Eng-
land, for example, a population completely
expropriated from the soil of their country
is under the necessity of accepting semi-
starvation wages, or death by starvation, in
a newly settled country this condition does
not prevail, at any rate with the same
severity. It is true that this stress does
operate more or less severely even in
these colonies, in the direct proportion
that by alienations or otherwise difficulties
are interposed by stupid legislation between
the people and ready recourse to the land.
But in Australia, at the present time, its
influence is incomparably less than it is in
Great Britain. Thus the influence of Pro-
tective duties is to increase the wage of the
operative and mechanical class at the ex-
pense of the rest of the community. We
will consider presently of what this resi-
duum—the rest of the community—is com-
posed, and examine the degreo of justice
with which they can be called upon to make
sacrifices for the benefit of a single order.
* * »
In the meantime, however, we may usefully
repeat a demonstration we have more than
once offered to our readers. The distinc-
tions of classes, we have pointed out, are all
effected in the main by one factor. Sub-
stantially, the upper classes are those which
have much money, the middle classes are
those which have a tolerable supply, the
lower classes are those which have very
little money, and the lowest order, the
dregs of the people, the dangerous classes,
are those who have no money at all. Par-
ticular exceptions must be allowed, but by
candid minds the general accuracy of these
definitions will be admitted. It is to be
here particularly observed, however, that,
although reversing the scale and adopting a
different, though equally familiar, nomen-
clature, one commences with the so-called
“ dangerous classes,” progresses through
the “common people” to the “respectable
tradesmen,” then to the intelligent middle-
classes of professional and gifted persons,
succeeded by the gentleman of independent
means, the representatives of the country
family, or landed proprietors, the lesser and
greater nobility, and, finally, the Sover-
eign, the maximum of merit and value is, in
dispassionate examinations, universally as-
cribed to the middle of the scale.
* * *
The two most notorious incitements to
crime are extreme destitution and gross
superfluity. Throughout all recorded his-
tory the wholesale sufferings of mankind
have been clearly due to the pride and am-
bition of sovereign princes and their detail
injuries, to the vicious [indulgences of the
idle superfluously rich, and the desperation
of the hopelessly poor. We leave out of
consideration the “ naturally ” depraved, as
these are found in all conditions of life. It
must be made plain by this disquisition that
an ideal community, in which the maximum
of happiness and conduct could be expected f
should be looked for amidst a people whose
material condition would be—
“ Too low for envy,
For contempt too high.”
In other words, in a community of middle-
class people. Now, we have demonstrated
that the influence of Protection in these
new countries would be distinctly in the
direction of elevating the most numerous
class—the industrial—towards the middle-
class condition, as regards their means of
livelihood. And the intelligence of classes
is, up to a certain level, proportionate to
their material condition, for reasons relating
to leisure, absence of extreme fatigue, &c.,
which we need only thus refer to. Conse-
quently, if it be desired to build up in this
part of the world a community of this ele-
vated sort, Protection as a policy is dis-
tinctly advantageous to such a consum-
mation.
* * *
We must, however, here pause, and pick
up the end of a thread we left lying loose.
The Protectionist policy, we admitted,
would tend to improve the condition of the
operatives, by increasing to others the cost
of commodities. We venture to dismiss
without discussion the grievance which this
may seem to the wealthy. To trench upon
the redundancy of the idle, or of persons
who are enabled by an evil social and eco-
nomic system to harvest much more than
their natural powers are adequate either to
sow or reap, appears to us to require no
apology and no justification. We have still,
however, the professional, the trader, and
the labourer on the soil to consider. With re-
spect to the former, we need again say little.
In several instances he himself exemplifies
the advantages of Protection. As a barrister,
a solicitor, a physician, he is hedged round
by the absolute protection of a legalised
monopoly. Competition of general talent
among outsiders— foreign competition in
relation to his guild—is warded off
y legislation. He is thus enabled to earn
more than the equivalent for his exertions
if exerted without such protection. Among
these protected classes are to be found the
most intelligent and cultivated of citizens.
If the pleader, or the expert in statutes
should be called upon to give a trifle more
pleading or a fraction more of advice in ex-
change for the exertions of the bootmaker,
the tin-smith, or other fellow-colonist, this
would be surely rather a return towards
natural justioe than a departure from it.
And so with the middleman—styled the
tradesman. The question is one simply of
exchange of labour-values. Say a cobbler
makes two pair of boots in one day, earning
10s. ; during the same period a tradesman
sells and delivers £lO worth of goods, net-
ting 20s. for his trouble, after paying rent
and all expenses, and during the same
time a banister pleads four hours in
court, receiving £lO, and a Governmentem-
j ployee writes two letters, receiving also £l-
- It would be well for society that the cobbler


should receive more and thß barrister less,
because the intelligence of the cobbler
would be fostered had he more leisure,
While the intelligence of the barrister, as
a professional man Would not be reduced,
although he had to bartet more pleadings
fdr boots. This is an infantile and elemen-
tary sketch, bht we purposely make it so
for the present. The case of the land-tiller
still remains. If he be an hireling, his wage
is fixed. He will leave the land and seek
work in a protected factory where he can
get a better value for his labour. But as
land is useless without labour, the demand
for his services in his original functions will
rise towards the level that is earnable in the
protected trades. Hence, in this case, the
ultimate stress will fall upon the owner of
the land, who will have to give the labourer
a greater share of the produce.
PLAIN EHGLISH.
Dibbs and Deception.
When Mr. Burns brought forward the New South
Wales Estimates, Mr. Dibbs held up his hands in
pious horror, at what he was pleased to call the
“ deception” of the Treasurer in omitting to make
any mention of the £500,000 which the sanguine
Premier had expected to obtain from the squat-
ters But Mr. Dibbs apparently forgot that
charges of political malfeasance had been made
against him in the most definite and direct terms.
Several of these imputing i'ecklessnc3B. and un-
worthy devices in the management of the flnances i
w© leave to his opponents in the Assembly, it is
with the accusation of “ transferring to the loan
account charges which clearly should have been
made against consolidated Revenue ” to avoid the
imposition of new taxation that we are now con-
cerned. Such a misuse of funds, if true, as
alleged, would be not only a political crime against
the colony but would also be a fraud upon the
public creditors who have fed the loan fund. Yet,
in place of immediately refuting the accusation,
Mr. Dibbs feebly alleged “deception” against the
man by whom he was publicly arraigned. It is
necessary that Mr. Dibbs should raply to this im-
putation on the first possible opportunity. Forti-
fied by bis own conscience, he may wish to pass it
by with contempt, hut for the sake of
the colony, he must either be proved innocent
or he denounced as one unfaithful to his trust.
The character of a borrower is a matter tf in.
terest to- a careful lender, and our critics in Eng-
land will not he slow to discover the charge, and
impute dishonesty to our political life if the
allegation be not immediately refuted by a clear
statement of facts and figures. There is a still higher
reason why Mr. Dibb3 should take immediate
action. As Treasurer, he stood in the position of
the first trustee for the money of others in the
colony. If the charge, which practically amounts
to wrongful use of his Trust funds for the pur-
pose of maintaining his position, meets with no
denial, it cannot fail to lower the standard of
morality throughout the colony. Alleged immor-
ality in high places crystallises into committed
crime in the lower grades of society. In his
apparent contempt for the charge, Mr. Dibbs- must
not let Judgment go by default.
+.
Annexation in the Pacific.
So far as Australia is concerned, the Monroe doc-
trine should he rigidly confined to the mainland f
and not suffered to include every Pacific rock.
This has always been our conviction, and, so far,
we’ve seen no arguments to upset it. So, when
the German seizure of some adjacent island and a
portion of New Guinea sent our neighbours into
hysterics, our chief regret was that Great Britain
took the trouble to obtain any footing in Papua.
No wilder scheme was ever promulgated than that
of strengthening our position by annexing distant
lands while at home we had, untrodden by the
foot of white man, an extent of country equal in
area to all the great Powers of Europe, omitting
Russia. A populous, federated, and independent
Australia must become the dominant power in
the Southern Hemisphere, even if she owned
no foot of land out of sight of her shores.
Place one leg of a compass In the centre of this
continent—somewhere, speaking roughly, about
the junction of the 24th southern parallel and the
135th meridian—and describe a circle with a radius
of 1400 miles. This would include all Australia,
some of the Dutch islands, and large portions of
New Guinea and Tasmania. As extension north-
wards is blocked by the Dutch possessions, and
there is little but water to the west till Madagas-
car is reached, an advance can take place towards
the east and. north-east only. The question is
whether encroachment in that direction, gob-
bling tbe Loyalty, New Hebrides, Friendly
Society, and Marquesas Groups on the way,
would render the land included in the circle
more secure. We submit that it would not.
The wider you extend the instrument’s legs the
nearer you necessarily approach the possessions
of other Hags. Ifi then, we are unable to hold our
own on the mainland, how would our position he
strengthened by having a dozen other places to
defend ? If America could not keep a foe out of
New York, Philadelphia, New Orleans, or San
Francisco, how could she keep his hands off the
West India Islands did she possess them ? No one,
we presume, supposes that the floating of the
Union Jack over the Azores, or of the Tricolour
over the Channel Islands, would render London
or Paris more secure. The idea of providing for
Australian safety by grabbing distant island
groups when two centuries’ work lies at our
doors, is on a par with the project for
defending Washington by running up the Stars
and Stripes on the Sandwich Islands. It was
the proposal, not of statesmanship, hut of greed.
When we hear, therefore, of the French intention
to annex the New Hebrides, the news gives us
about as much concern as that of a Chinese raid
on Thibet. IE Francs wishes to attack us, the
possession of h6r intended acquisitions will not
help her. It may make a difference to the Pro-
testant missions there, and we shall, no doubt,
hear doleful accounts of bow tho poor natives
were ill-used for their repugnance to the con-
fessional. But we take it that ft South Sea
islander’s chances of wearing a metal erown and
taking his place in the celestial orchestra will not
be destroyed by a belief in Transubstantiation, or
the disciplinary effect of a sojourn in Purgatory.
♦»
Hereditary Titles.
Intelligence received by cable that Sir Freder-
ick Leighton, the talented President of the
British Royal Academy of Painters, has been ele-
vated from the knightly order to the hereditary
distinction of baronetage, revives and gives fresh
pungency to reflections which are not new. Sir
Frederick is a painter of genius. Consequently,
that his distinction should be accented and stamped
is but reasonable and proper. But reason faints
once at the hereditary aspect of the affair. There
is no ground for expectation that Sir Frederick
Leighton’s heirs-male in successive generations
will be painters of genius. Why, then, should
they have distinction above contemporaries
who shall havo the divine spark ? Distinctions
are only of sensible value when they are the out-
ward symbolism of a real superiority. Authority
does good service to a community when it places
the mint-mark upon gold. But in an equal de-
gree an outrage is inflicted upon society when
authority places the stamp upon base metal. Now
this is exactly what occurs when either a distinc-
tion is conferred upon an unworthy man or
permitted to descend by hereditary transmission
to promiscuous persons. It would be strictly
accurate and just to make titles signify the
reasons for which they were granted. Thus,
instead of creating Arthur Wellesley a
Duke—a designation which conveys no expli-
cit information—it would have been decent
and natural to style him “Victor of Waterloo.”
Similarly, Nelson might have passed the short
sequel of his existence honoured as “Conquero
at Aboukir,” Disraeli as “ Adroit Diplomatist,”
Tennyson as “Lord Poet Laureate,” Sullivan as
“Sir Composer of Pinafore,” and Leighton as “Sir
Splendid Painter.” Hereditary titles would not
long survive such realism. A “ Victor of Waterloo’’
who was afraid of a cow, a “ Conqueror at
Aboukir” who was sea-sick as soon as he put his
foot on a ship, a Lord Poet who could not write
a verse, and a Sir Splendid Painter who could not
colour a wheelbarrow, would be walking satires
upon their titles. Yet the materials for the satire
exist just as truly as though the suggestive titles
were branded on them. There are some people in
Australia who are greedy for the diffusion of this
mischievous device into these colonies. Already
too much base metal has been impressed here with
the Queen’s hall-mark, and we believe we are war-
ranted in saying that the true manly colonists of
Australia want no more of this sort of Imperial
false coinage introduced.
The First “ Hat.”
Mr. Heydon, M.L.A., fell foul of the Sydney
Press very considerably a few months ago for
“ misrepresenting ” him, chiefly because they re-
fused to take him and his utterances seriously.
In view of what has occurred during the past few
weeks, the member for Yass can hardly expect
ever to be taken seriously in the future. He con-
vened a “ conference ” at the Sydney Town Hall
last July to discuss the Land Act of 1881, and made
a speech, as President, chock full of the highest
kind of sueh avowals as this:—
“ We shall not stop, I trust, until the people of
New South Wales shall have wrested the power
from sordid monopolists, and shall govern our fair
young land for the welfare of the many and not
the few.”
And then he went on to denounce a whole lot of
evils, and accounted for their existence ,by
saying—
“ There are here only two real political classes,
the one of the capitalists, that is to say, the mer-
chants, squatters and bankers; and the other
comprising all the rest of the people. The struggle
between these two classes is here, as it was in
Victoria, the only natural basis of politics; and
the old rule, ‘the spoils to the victors,' is faith-
fully followed. If the Conservatives—as the im-
porters and pastoralists call themselves—win, they
carefully take everything that they can give
themselves.”
Any sane man would naturally imagine that a
statesman—no, politician—deliberately uttering
such sentiments as these would at least have the
decency to stick to them for a few months. On
the strength of his Conference he figured for a
time as leader of the Protectionist party, until he
was appointed to the Cabinet, when people
thought that at last they had a Minister who
would fight for the cause of colonial industries.
Land Reform, Fair-trade, and Payment of Members
were the planks on which Mr. Heydon took his
stand at the Town Hall, but office—and £135 a
month—dangled temptingly before his ©yes. The
consequence was that he came down from his
political platform in order to grasp the glittering
prize, and in descending from that lofty stand-
point he unfortunately did so in such a clumsy
manner that he has, “ politically speaking,” com-
mitted suicide. It would be almost impossible to
quote a more pitiable piece of drivel than the letter
of resignation read by Sir John Robertson on
Wednesday night to the amused House. No doubt
Mr. Heydon, when he wrote it, was under the idea
that the public would swallow any kind of foolish-
ness he chose to write; but what he chooses to write
and what the public are inclined to believe are two
totally different things. In the resignation letter
we are told that he resigned because he couldn’t
agree with Mr. Burns as to a property tax.” Now,
if the man had any right at all to put himself for-
ward as a Liberal leader, the imposition of a pro-
perty tax, especially heavy on absentees, ought to
have formed one of his strongest and most promi-
nent planks. Yet, before finally retiring under
this trumpery excuse, he had abandoned Land
Reform, which he so strongly advocated last
July, and was in office pledged to support
a most infamous proposal, that would,
in effect, have quietly handed over the
best lands in the colony as a kind of perpetual
heritage to the squatters. Next his ideas of pro-
tecting colonial industries went overboard, and,
lastly—mark the order of abandonment—the pay-
ment of members. With a deficit on hand, it
would have been easier to have excused his con-
duct had this reform been abandoned first, but a
legal mind naturally shrinks from giving up the
chance of taking a fee. The reason given in the
letter read to the House is a very long way too
thin, for the public can hardly be expected to be-
lieve that any men could spend more than a
month in close companionship with other men
and only discover at the end of that time
what their views, opinions, and convictions
actually were. If Mr. Heydon could discover
a month since that his colleagues’ views as
to Land Reform and Protection were so dissimilar
to his own that he found it necessary to suit his
views to theirs or leave the Cabinet, he represents
himself as being one of the most obtuse men on
record by writing that he only resigns because he
has just discovered Mr. Burns’ intention to tax
property. As if any Minister could be a month in
office without knowing clearly the policy to be
pursued by his colleagues. After the wretched
display he has made, we recommend Mr. Heydon
to disappear from political life, for a time, at all
events, especially as people are commencing to
recollect the old saying about rats leaving a sink-
ing ship, and to speak of the member for Yass as
“ the first rat.”
————
Brutality in Brisbane Gaol.
A short time since we drew attention to an
awful piece of brutality enacted in Brisbane gacj
on two men and a boy, sentenced to penal servi.
tude and repeated flogging. iNow a far worse tale
of brutality comes to us from the same quarter,
in this ease, though, the savagerylreached actually
to the grave side. Henry Scholefield, ex-
Government labour-agent on the now notorious
schooner Hopeful, one of those men convicted of
murder of natives and sentenced to death,"which
sentence was ultimately altered to ponal servitude
in irons, died the other day in Brisbane gaol. And
he died in Ms shackles. Don’t imagine the
poor wretch dropped down dead in his
tracks, or that he met with a fatal accident, or
anything of that kind. Nothing of the sort; he
lay on a sick bed, suffering from an incurable
disease, and the prison doctors would not order
his irons to be removed “because they did not
aggravate his complaint!” That was the deliber-
ate opinion of the two Brisbane doctors whose
attention was called by the gaoler to the poor,
expiring wretch. Though they tried to shield
themselves at the inquest under the plea
that they had no authority to interfere, their
conduct will disgrace them in the eyes of most of
their fellows, “No authority to interfere,” in-
deed. Suppose Dr. Hobbs and Dr. Marks were
present at one of Brisbane’s favourite flogging
picnics, and saw an unfortunate man (or perhaps
woman, we are quite prepared to hear of women
being flogged in Brisbane) dying under the lash,
would either of them order the straps to be un-
done and the flogging discontinued ? According
to their excuse in Schofield's case they would
not, because the securing straps would not “ ag-
gravate his complaint.” Is there in Brisbane no
colonial Howard who will set himself to eradi-
cate such exhibitions of legalised brutality ? Such
outrages are a disgrace alike to our modern ad-
vancement of thought’and to the Bible, which is
said to be the foundation of our code.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) is again to the fore with a
display of snivelling sanctity worthy of its own
reputation and the teachings of Bishop Marsden
(son of Samuel Marsden of Hogging notoriety)
and Dr. Geekie. Recently, a talented company
consisting ef Messrs. Hallewell, Huenerbein,
Willimoff, Mrs. Armstrong, and others were
deluded into visiting Bathurst for the purpose of
showing the natives what high-class music was
like. Besides a concert during the week, they
drew out a programme for a second one on Sun-
day evening, consisting entirely of sacred music.
But this performance was not allowed to eventu-
ate, as the secretary of the School of Arts
alleged that the particularly holy license of
the hall restrains him from letting it for
Sunday concerts. Then the Rev. Geekie gets
space in the local Times to print an effusion
from a snuffle-busting friend of his who doesn’t
“at all like such intrusion on the sanctity of
the Sabbath Day,” and the doctor proceeds to have
his fling by saying that such concerts are “ not
only unchristian, but wholly illegal ’’—(please note
here the curious predominance of illegality over
Christianity)—and sneers at Mr. Huenerbein and
his company by alluding to their “so-called sacred
concert.” This is the state of Bathurst near the
end of the nineteenth century I One of her
citizens deliberately writes his opinion that the
performance of Sunday music, written for the
honour and glory of the God of Uhistendom, is
“ not only unchristian, but illegal.” Such Phara-
saical utterances always seem to us to come from
the pocket rather than from the conscience. The
clerical monopoly of the Sunday contribution-box
has always been upheld by this parrot-ery of the
“ sanctity of the Sawbath.”
Says an English society journal:—“ Because some
flunkeys of the middle-class and a number of timid
shopkeepers are ready to be boot-blacks and valets
to the aristocracy, the English people have been
libelled with the saying, ‘ The Englishman dearly
loves a lord.’ The more sensible part of the com-
munity look upon the House of Lords as a collec-
tion of men who are partly knaves and partly
fools. If an imbecile character has to be put into
a play or novel, a lord is chosen. If a man
wants a simile for drunkenness, it is ‘as drunk
as a lord.’ The English thiDk of lords as a
species of pampered menials, who, after some
training, might make fair linendraper’s assistants.’
To which straightforward declaration we would
like to add that as some returned Australians who
pose as representative men are accustomed to in-
dulge in the most abject and degrading of flunkey-
ism in order to obtain a title and a position m
English society, it is generally believed in England
that Australians are grovelling Tories who would
sell their souls to obtain Imperial distinctions.
And & because some representative Australians
have published notoriously romantic auto-bio-
graphies, it is not surprising that the colonial re-
putation for truth should be a bad third to that of
ANANIAS and Sapphira, his wife. Save us from
our representatives, should be the prayer of Aus-
tralians.
His Valentine.
Go, messenger of mine, and tell
How eoapty in all life, until soft Love
Comes gently is the heart to dwell,
To calm its yearnings, till it reigns above.
For unstill'd longing ever grows,
Filling the soul with wishful dream that lives
In strange sweet Hope, which comes and goes,
Full of the promise that fulfilment gives.
Yet, wake not now her unstirred soul,
For all too soon Love’s kindly touch draws near,
O’ershadowing womanhood-the goal
Of that sweet maidenhood I hold so dear.
Her Valentine.
Go, missive mine,
Tell him (whose name to thee T love to breathe),
What longings twine
With subtle influence round the heart and wreathe
A new life with the old.
Tell him that tale oft-told,
When gentle tumults, sweet imaginings
The senses hold,
And Hope comes whispering of pleasant things;
Tell him how stirr’d
’Neath his first glance, my wayward, passionate
heart
As tho’ it heard
Some inward voice a prophecy impart.
Tell him how strong
The hot Hood surges thro’ my leaping heart;
Ask him how long
Ere the delights of Love fresh strength impart.
And, Valentine,
Pray, bid him swear my secret ne'er to yield;
And bolt thine,
On this thy day, my modesty to shield.
Rookwood.
K.D.A.
!hj» Baths oh bubbcrivtion to thh bullhiim
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12s. Bd.:
quafrter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
Thh Advhrtising Baths are ss. per inchi
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
mch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per oent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for aiternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
ho made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Mi, postage stamps of any Australia
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Some German missionaries are going to
start a camp at Cape Bedford for the conversion
of the local Diggers. The chances are about even
that the Germans themselves will toe ultimately
converted—converted into nigger.
It is proposed to set apart a site for a
cemetery at Parramatta. Tney have urgently
needed one there for some time, and we could
name without difficulty one or two who would tie
eminently suitable to inaugurate the openiDg of
the new boneyard. No members of Parliament or
mercurial newspaper proprietors are suggested as
suitable.
Thus a correspondent“ The invitation
to the public to attend the public meeting of the
Geographical Society was largely availed of. After
the usual nreliminaries, His Excellency introduced
Captain Everill, and, at the conclusion of the
leader’s paper, His Excellency, addressing the
audience, invited discussion. The privilege to
discuss was taken by several gentleman without
interruption, and when General MTver rose and
addressed His Excellency, he w asi immediately met
by Sir Edward Striekland sayrnig, ‘You are not a
member, nor have you been invited.’ The climax
was reached when His Excellency denied the
General a hearing. The audit race, or at least
many of them, are in the dark ;is to this strange
conduct, and I, in common with otfoers, who are
utter strangers to Sir Edward Strickland and
General MTver, desire to ascertain if it be correct
to deny a hearing to anyone at a public meeting
when the chairman has court ed discussion.”
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle departments
KRUG’B CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , [4a. ed,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two ShlMnri per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
la< per Bottle
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarrc
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkets Prize Medal Brand/
in stone bottles and square bottles,
largist sizi.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND WILLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
c. W. ROBERTS
George and larket Streets.
SYDNEY.


palmer Chronicle tells a horrible
* f the death of a blaok child. According to
« tory men t of Mr. Nicholßon, of Strathleaven,
tbo 8 8 a bull almost mad racing through the bush
h 0 Tr miles from the head station. On one of
Bb °h ns a ghastly burden, was impaled the putri.
body of a black baby. It is presumed the
fyil lf had surrounded a mob of cattle to spear
them, when the lord of the herd charged
+heopposing circle, goring the child, and
it away t° a horrible death.
Detection versus Freetrade may be a very
subject for the beardless youths of a debat-
(r°° d ."“ in discuss, but it is outside the realm of
in*, 01 "Vractical politics. The question is not:
m °if r roA benefit manufacturers by imposing pro-
duties upon foreign importations ? but,
, m the interest of the wage-earning
Can oholißh Custom dues altogether, and raise
olaBS revenue from taxes on property and land ?
our ro
Muddle.
CUSTOMER (vexed): “CALL THAT A POLICY? WHICH OF YOU REPRESENTS THE FIRM? OH, I’M NOT ON.” (Goes to the Opposition shop.)
freeholders and the lawyers in Parlia-
n U( ri. Wll l fight agalnt this, but make it a test
Sats i on at next general election, and three new
the constituencies will vote
issued on the part of Bir
Wi w Strickland, to Biigadier-General MTver,
Bccui-an 0r , w dh extraordinary and unusual
Plains fu Here is a verbatim extract which ex-
ffreask , B °niewhat singular alarm of the gallant
General" And the said Sir E iward
«rievnn v lB afraid that you will do her come
requha? hodily harm, and prays that you may be
Peace t 0 iled sufficient sureties to keep the
that her. -’ We have no patience with
dentlv * a desperado, Mclver. He has evi-
f°rßoH^ e 5 .80 'eng in foreign serviee that he has
hen»? the motto which should be engraved on
his hand* ever y Briton—“ The man who raises
old a woman, &c.” And particularly to an
a gent?J y comes from down the harbour of
1 etl >an who was out boating and left his
eraft to bathe in the pellucid waters of Port Jack-
son. He says that he swam out about 250 yards
from shore, when he saw two large sharks. He
struck out for the beach, the big fish pursuing
him, and he watched one as he turned on his back
and opened his jaws ready to devour the unfor-
tunate swimmer. The story-teller, however,
safely reached land, “ though much exhausted.”
Immersion in salt water is net, therefore, a com-
plete care for cases of delicious tremblings; for,
after being haunted by blue and yellow suakes
creeping up one’s trousers legs, its no relief to
plunge into the briny aud tackle a school of 15 feet
copper-bottomed sharks with patent overstrung
bone-crunchers.
Captain Mulholiand is an old N.Z. warrior.
In 64 he was a corporal in the 4th Waikato Regi-
ment, and doubtless he can remember the rather
alarming sensation created by a young recruit of
16, who, “doing sentry go ” outside a redoubt, at
Papakura, became so sleepy about three in the
morning that he mistook some blackened tree-
stumps for moving figures, blazed away at the
phantoms, and then beat a hasty retreat across
the drawbridge. Tnere were only about 40 men in
charge of the redoubt under command of an en-
sign, who had been sampling commissariat rum
until the snakes crawled out of his boots, and this
meritorious officer kept all hands under arms
manning the parapet until daylight. Mulholiand,
as second in command, had a lively time of it in
those days, but he was always a favourite with
the men, and certainly deserved the promotion he
subsequently obtained.
The ehief matter of interest up at Cook-
town (Q.) continues to be the evolution of the
Douro affair. Loland the mate, and Leslie, the
cook of the vessel, have laid an information
against Captain Sorensen charging him with
murder on the 3rd Sept. last when at the Ad-
miralty Islands. These same men are parties to
the written statement, signed by the crew, acquit-
ting Sorensen of any conduct other than such as
would pass muster at a Wesleyan tea-fight, but
they now are inclined to go back on that produc-
tion with the same celerity with which a N.S.W.
Protectionist politician rips up his previous plat-
form as soon as a portfolio heaves in sight. The
crew of the alleged Dirate are reported to be out
of about ulne months’ wages, which they have no
present hope of getting. The further develop-
ment of this complicated affair is looked for with
an amount of interest tempered only by the pre-
sent overpowering heat of the Cooktown sun.
An English humorous item culled from an
exchange:—“ He was a tame curate away in the
wild back country of Australia, and he was wait-
ing in church to marry a couple of the aborigines.
Enter one of them, the male, in a hurry, and in
his working clothes, with his hands and face
covered with antique dirt. ‘Aw’ve cum to be
wed.’ ‘You?’ responded the curate; ‘in that
garb ? It is most improper. Why, you are down-
right dirty.’ ‘Me dirty I Wait till you see her!'”
Saul, Saul, for what are you salaried ? Is it thus
we are thought of even at this latter day ? We
who sent our aborigines to the Soudan, and get
our bishops and governors imported, who pay
Agents-General to advertise us and make us known
as gradually becoming civilised. It is too much.
Besides, none of our “ aborigines ” speak that
way—“ Aw’ve cum to be wed.” Why, that s Eng-
lish English, not Australian English. We speak
without an accent.
Annoying your neighbours pays well
sometimes. At least the “ Harmy ” style of
creating a kind of doubled-distilled, superlative
nuisance appears to. Last year its income
amounted to £76,168, and £3606 has to be added to
that for its trading profit*- The beauty of the
whole concern is that only the Booth family know
how these handsome sums are disposed of. No
balance-sheet is ever published, though Mr. La-
bouchere, M.P., has challenged the Booth ring
for some years past to produce one. No account
is ever given of expenditure, and all Army pro-
perty—” barracks,” and other tomfoolery of that
kind—is registered or secured in the name of
Booth. Most of the deluded, harmless, religion-
struck idiots who plank down their money to help
the howling hallelujah tanaties do so because “ the
Army does so much good.” True, well-meaning
Balaam’s companions. So it does—to the Booth
family—for don’t they belong to the tribe of the
prophets (£360(5 last year) ? We mean to start an
“ army ” soon.
Among the doughty warriors who are to
be decorated ou Saturday for their patriotic ser-
vices in the Soudan, there are one or two who
received the Imperial medal for the New Zealand
campaign 20 years ago. That little war has now
been almost forgotten, but the Soudan dmeuU
was only a picnic compared witt it. There were
no wealthy citizens to present the troops with
libraries, lollies, life pills, and all the luxurious
odds and ends of modern campaigning. Their
fare from one end of the year to the other was
boiled beef, rancid salt pork, mouldy biscuit, and
tea. They slept 13 and sometimes 20 in one
bell-tent, and never knew what it was to lie on
any bed softer than the hard ground, except in
continuously wet weather, when the mud beneath
them was soft enough to bog a bullock. During
the freezing winter months, and in the rainy
autumn and spring, their only protection was the
moth-eaten great coat and dirt-plastered grey
blanket. Often they were labouring all day in
digging trenches and raising earthworks of fern
and clay for redoubts, keeping guard at night
with empty stomachs while the drays with rations
were toiling over unmade roads and through
bridgeless creeks two days behind. Yet our
colonial troops achieved what the Imperial army
failed to perform, following into their fastnesses
and dislodging from pah after pah the brave and
stubborn enemies. That the Maori war was an
unrighteous one, has since been generally ac-
knowledged; but when once the native popula-
tion of the country was in arms, and had re-
sponded to our military manoeuvres by introduc-
ing a system of indiscriminate massacre, there
was no help for it hut to obtain the complete sub-
jection of the revolted tribes. To accomplish this
many brave men on both sides were sacrificed, and
official returns gave pur total list of killed,
drowned, died of wounds reoeived, and of sickness
in the field at something over 1000—more than the
whole strength of the Soudan contingent.
The success of Wolfe's Schncvpps in these
Colonies has been unparalleled.


Personal
Ierms
One of the candidates for the representa-
tion of the electorate of Polwarth and South
Grenville, in the Victorian Parliament, is Mr. A.
T. Dickens, son of Charles Dickens, the novelist.
This is a melancholy instance of what may happen
to a man in Australia. We bet if the great
novelist could have foreseen that a son of his
would ever try to become a Victorian M.L A. he
would—well, we believe he would have poleaxed
him.
The Rev. John Watson, Church of England
clergyman, Coburg (Vic.), is a marked man. He
stands before all men the butt for universal exe-
cration. He nas done no murder, nor stolen any
chickens, but he has spoken his mind about his
Bishop, the much bespangled J. Moorhouse, and
that is worse. Referring to my Lord of Man-
chester, the Rev. John said: “He is a domineer-
ing, overbearing man, and I thank God he is going.
If he remained much longer we should be under
the iron hand of despotism.”
Edgar Allan Poe was supposed by many
to have owed his early death to intemperate
habits. Dr. John Moran, who attended the poet
in his last illness, states that his constitution was
such that he could not become a drunkard. For
the four years preceding his death Poe was per-
fectly temperate, and the day before he died he
refused a glass of spirits. His death, it is now
stated, was caused by ill-treatment ana exposure
by a crowd of Baltimore roughs, who caught,
drugged him, and subsequently voted him during
an excited election battle.
Bravery is not always thrown away. Mr.
James N. Hill, the bold young bank manager—a
portrait of whom appeared in this paper a couple
of weeks ago—who so gallantly defended the
Commercial Bank at Collingwood lately, has been
presented by the directors with a gift of one
hundred guineas, promoted to the important and
lucrative position of accountant at the Geelong
Bank, and has had, in addition, a house, fuel and
gas free, granted him, and an allowance of £1 a
week for a servant. This fortunate hero has also
received the neat little sum of £250 from the
managers of the Associated Banks. Further, his
fellow officers are getting up a testimonial to him
on their own account. Happy manl If this kind
thing goes on he will proDably soon be able to
start a Bank on his own account. It will be a
pretty safe one, as far as burglars are concerned.
News comes of the formal dissolution of
partnership between Australia’s John Hill and
Hungary’s lima de Murska. Twelve years ago
lima was to be seen daily in Collins-streeet, her
scraggy form much over-dressed, and thin face
painted to the degree which Hamlet calls “an inch
thick.” Hill was then a good-looking fellow on
the right side of 40, and yet he stooped to carry
Ilma’s bejacketed poodle, and then to take its
place. On his marriage to lima the poodle dis-
appeared, and it was said Hill dropped it over-
board. He ealled himself “ Hillius ” when in Lon-
don, and once developed into Strauss Ilia. The
marriage was anything but a happy one—if reports
were to be trusted. He has no sooner got divorced
than he has again married, and we are—if reporc
speaks rightly—to see him shortly again in Aus-
tralia. The grounds for the divorce have not been
told us, nor what has become of the antiquated
lima.
Apropos of our “ Pope’s Pin ” par., a few
weeks pack, a correspondent writes:—“ This
cursed pin story has been used as a biennial
emetic on me for 42 years. You have given me it
again, but, Heaven be praised, you did not forget
to slate that picnicing lot whose boss tried it on.
Now, I’ll tell you what may or may not be new to
you in the pin line. A. T. Stewart, of New York,
used always to stand at the exit-door, and look at
our faces as we left at 5 p.m. He thought he
could detect dishonesty, and if he could he was a
clever man, for there were 500 of us. One of the
clerks (counter-jumpers are clerks in America)
used always to wear a flower and fix it on going
out with a pin from the cushion on the counter.
Mr. A. T. S. one day said to him: ‘Do you know
that you are appropriating my property ? ’ ‘ Beg
pardon,’ said the clerk, and he put back the pin,
and removed 14 others which he pretended to
select. ‘ These,’ said he, ‘ are the 14 I brought this
morning. I picked them up as I came along, and
put them in that cushion.’ He was promoted,
this pin-saving clerk, for his cheek; and he is now
high up in what is undoubtedly the largest store
in the world.”
An Adelaide telegram says that the de-
positors in the Building Society defrauded by
Egremont. the secretary, to the tune of close upon
a cool £lO,OOO, are proceeding against the directors
for the recovery of that amount. We hope they
may get it—which is more than the detective sent
after him seems to be able to do with the secre-
tary. Egremont was what is ealled a charming
fellow—wrote elegant verses, threw off theatrical
criticisms for one of the Adelaide papers, and gave
nice little suppers to nice little actresses at his
house in the suburbs. He was, indeed, one of the
most cheerful of creatures and had a brilliant
prospect before him. And now what is he doing ?
Breaking the bank at Monaco or Baden, maybe.
His fate should be a fearful warning to young
men who have a leaning to writing verses and
giving little suppers. For—
If there were fewer rhymers
And little poets pale,
There would not be, I wager,
So many an old stager,
So many gray old-timers,
A lying now in gaol,;
If there were fewer rhymers
And little poets pale.
It is evident that Truth has run the tape
over Sir Salmon Wilson, as this is its comment on
the proposal to give him a baronetcy:—” As there
is not the slightest reason why this wealthy snob
should be made a baronet, beyond his occupancy
of Hughenden, it might perhaps be a better plan
to enact that tenancy of the sacred spot should
confer a title. If I remember rightly, Sir Samuel
got knighthood by giving a large sum of money
to some institute patronised by Royalty. What is
there in the air of our colonies that causes so many
colonial plutocrats, when they come over here, to
become the most fulsome, foolish, fawning, and
flabby of flunkies, and to curry favour with
‘ society ’ by reviling Radicals ?” What makes
some colonial plutocrats become flunkies? The
desire for a baronetcy, of course. Those colonials
who grovel for a title are men who have been held
in freely expressed contempt in the colonies, and
their foolish hope is that they may gain (by means
of a title) that respect which neither their wealth
nor conduct has ever been able to earn for them
where they are best known and consequently least
esteemed. This, dear Truth, is the genesis of
colonial foolish, fulsome, fawning, flabby flunkey-
ism. And it is not only in England that this
grovelling ’goes on. Plenty of men do it while in
the colonies, and nearly all the newspapers.
After deluding his unhappy countrymen
into the belief that he was about to retire from
political life, Earl Granville is announced as Sec.
for the Colonies in the new Gladstone Ministry.
Poor colonies! Unlucky Agents-General I In the
winter of his life the courtly Granville has taken
to lying torpid—like a snake. He is so iaveterately
lazy, says rumour, that it is difficult to get him
out of bed to attend a Cabinet meeting. His usual
hour for rising is 2 o’clock in the afternoon, and
he dictates his despatches, on the rare occasions
when he sends any—with head hidden between
downy billows of bolster. In society Granville is
popularly known as “ Pussy,” on account of his
soft purring manner, and a feline faculty for mak-
ing himself comfortable. It was wrong, perhaps, to
say that the new Secretary lies torpid like a snake.
He is the “ Pussy” who stretches himself with half
closed eyes, in front of the lire, until feeding time
comes round. If Sir Saul requires to interview
Earl G., we guess he will have to call more than
once at the Colonial Office before the audience
comes off. Granville was reared in the old school,
which taught that true diplomacy consists in
never doing- to-day what you can put off till to-
morrow. Never a clever man, he has now de-
generated into a slothful encumbrance on his
party. As a Foreign Secretary, he is dead and
buried, and it is to a resurrected failure that the
interests of the colonies are now confided. Pussy
has one strong point, however. He is a most ac-
complished French scholar. Perhaps he keeps his
hand in by reading Emile Zola in bed.
We behold with alarm that Peck, of Mil-
waukie, has broken out afresh with his beast of a
“ Bad Boy.” The happy and comfortable fate of
that brute Spoopendyke scared Peck off writing
again for a while; but now he has plucked up
courage, and is at it anew, full blast. Just ima-
gine I They’ve made plays out of the “ Bad Boy”
in America, calling it tne “ Corner Grocery,” and
such like titles; but, as the wicked hero has either
to be played by a burly low comedian with the
mouth of an ogre or a cheeky soubrette with
assertive hips, the performance must present
something very uncommon in the dramatic line
indeed. And, talking of Peck, reminds us of that
unconscionable impostor, Bartley Campbell. Well,
Bartley has encountered the fate we predicted for
him after seeing one of his plays in Sydney; dra-
matically speaking, ha has “petered right out."’
Last year Bartley told a N.Y. Mirror reporter that
he had purchased the lease of the Fourth Avenue
Theatre, was in treaty also for the Bijou, and
already had a theatre of his own in San Francisco.
Now the public have dropped to his poor pinch-
beck, Bartley can’t shove a play in even at
the Bowery or Tony Pastor's. While he
reigned, Mr. Campbell played nothing but his
own pieces—“ American dramas by an American
author at his theatres; but it wouldn’t gee; so
after performing to curses and peanuts, until the
money was pretty well all done, he lav back for
aspring, and produced his new play “Paquita,”
which the bills said was to be the great dramatic
boom of the century. This dramatic monster was
booted to perdition immediately; and Bartley ac-
cordingly subsided. But just one more reminis-
cence of him : When his “My Partner” was
brought out in London, after the second act the
audience, who had been ali along sobbing aloud at
the pathos, and groaning at the villain, called for
the author. The manager came forward and ex-
plained that Mr. Bartley Campbell was at that
moment in New York, but tne success of his piece
would be cabled to him. Shrieks of laughter suc-
ceeded this announcement; and when the echo of
the last guffaw had died away, a tall man arose in
the pit, and said to the manager—“ Never you
mind about no cables, Mister. Just you fetch
him over. We’ll find the cable ourselves,”
The London correspondent of the Age
falls foul of Mr. Spensley, a returned Australian,
lately made a British M.P. He complains that the
title of “ Honourable ” is unwarrantably worn by
that gentleman, and that, as a colonial title, it was
one of courtesy only, and not applicable out ot
the colony in which he was, for a time, Solicitor-
Generai and Executive Councillor. The Heralds’
College has been appealed to on the subject, but
that antiquated institution has no power to punish
those who assume titles The Age correspondent
wroDgly assumes that it once had such authority
which, in fact, it never had. There is as mucn
error existing on the subject ot titles as there is
about a change of name. A judgment of Lord
Denman’s may be cited on that subject. “The
witness Williams,” said his Lordship, “ has been
discredited because that he was once known by
another name. I know of nothing in the iaws of
England which prevent a man changing his name
or punish him for doing so, if he thinks he can do
better under another name, and does not assume
a name for fraudulent purposes.” So with titles.
The House of Lords decided, awhile ago, that
there was no protection for the title of “Rev-
erend.” Anyone may use it, as is done with the
title of “professor” which we see used by
quack medicine vendors, hairdressers, horse-
tamers, and others. So also, with titles of
honour. Though the legal and medical professions
are protected the peerage is not. A man is punish-
able for calling himself a solicitor or surgeon and
practising- as such when without a diploma But
Smith or Brown may grace his name with any
prefix or affix he may choose, free from any fear
of the Heralds’ College or the criminal courts. All
that he will have to dread will be the laughter
and ridicule of those to whom he is known—as a
jay strutting in peacock's feathers. There are no
less than three Earls of Mar, or those claiming
that title and so calling themselves. We have a
Chinaman in Europe calling himself “ Marquis
Tseng,” though every schoolboy knows that Mar-
quis is no Chinese name or title. Count Cagliostro
was as free from fear of punishment as would
have been the fabled Count of Monte Christo. If
a man likes to put “ Honourable ” or “ Sir ” before
his name, or to put “ Bart.” after it, -he can do so
as harmlessly to himsHf as Dr. Pangloss added
LL.D. and A.S.S. to his name. We don't quarrel
with women who paint their faces or with men
who dye their whiskers. la like way, titles may
be worn as paint is, if it amuses people to make
such assumptions. Another man’s title may not
be taken anymore than his name, but Jones or
Thompson may call themselves “ Count Jones ” or
“ Lord Thompson ” if they are fantastical enough
to do so, and thick-skinned enough to .withstand
the ridicule they so court.
“Mr Sludge, the Medium,” had a real
representative in Foster, who wag the one
spiritualistic medium of any note who has visited
Australia. Foster has now gone to his con-
stituents—his death attributable to brain disease.
Though the most money-making of his fraternity,
it was lightly come and go with him, and he has
died among his relatives in Massachusetts a
pauper, and a widower without family. Some
12 years ago he was here scooping in hundreds of
pounds from visitors, who went to him as house-
maids do to fortune tellers. When in Melbourne
he hired, for two months, a cottage in Spring-
street, adjoining the White Hart Hotel. Retold
host Edwards that he had taken £BOO in that short
time. The old man couldn t understand why
Foster chucked up such a good thing and suddenly
disappeared. The reason, nkely enough, was that
the news came from Loudon of Slade—the pen-
cilling medium—being pulled up to the Police
Court there by Dr. Ray Lankester. The Dr. sub-
stantiated a charge against Slade for obtaining
money under false pretences. Foster probably
feared similar proceedings in Melbourne, founded
on such a precedent. His special line, of which
hdwas the inventor, was the paper pellet and
blood-writing on the arm business. These tricks
are known to most conjurors, and have been
shown here by more than one. It was curious to
see how women—many of whom could ill-afford
the guinea fee-flocked to Foster to get messages
from their deceased Irienaß and relatives, which
were forthcoming—as long as the guineas were.
In the same way that Home, another medium of
note, humbugged Louis Napoleon, Foster bam-
boozied Bulwer, whom he visited at Knebworth.
The astute, tricky young Yankee persuaded the
famous novelist into belief in his supernatural
powers. But Bulwer, if humbugged, made raw
material of Foster and worked him up, under the
name of Margrave, in the novel of “A Strange
Story.” Both Slade and Home were only imita-
tors of Foster, though they developed varied
ways of working the new dodge. But Foster was
wary and cautious, and never caught as they both
were. We have heard nothing ot Slade since Dr.
Lankester knocked the sawdust out of him at the
Police Court. Home was similarly silenced by
legal proceedings. A rich widow became one of
those who believed in him, and so much so that
Home saw his way to snavelling the £4O 000 her
husband had left her. The deceased -‘hubby”
sent her messages-through Home—that she was
to deposit her fortune in ihe latter’s hands, ft
took the powers of the Vice-Caaceellor’s Court to
get the money back again, for professional
mediums, like ecclesiastics, never refund volun-
tarily. But, though he steered clear of legal pro-
ceedings, Nemesis, none the less, followed Foster.
The inventor of the guillotine lost his head by it.
John Sfc. John Long, the journeyman carpenter
who rose to large fortune on his quack cure for
consumption, died of that disease. Matthew Hop-
kins, the witch-llnder, was punished for witch-
craft. Titus Oates, the conspiracy exposer, was
convicted for conspiracy; and now Foster, who
found out a new weak spot in the brains of others,
has himself died of brain softening.
Political
Points
Ever since Victoria had the common sens©
to place her railways under a Board of Commis-
sioners, and abolish political patronage as a pro-
curative power lor billets, satisfactory work has
been the result. Mr. Bosisto, speaking at Rich-
mond (Vic.) the other day, “thanked God every
day of his life that he had not now to ask for
situations on the railways, as he had to do before
the Bill became law.” In N.S.W. members still
have “to ask for situations,” and Ministers still
have to grant them. The consequence is that the
extravagance of the railway system is not more
remarkable than the incapacity of a proportion of
its officers. Some time ago it was necessary for a
man to join an Orange lodge before he could even
get a job of wheel greasing on the railways. It is
very much that way now.
A correspondent, writing to the North
Australian (S.A.), defends J udge Pater, whose
character has been roughly attacked by a local
paper, and expresses his surprise that his Honor
takes no notice of the libellous assertions. The
writer should know that it is beneath the dignity
of a judge to trouble himself to refute even
ascriptions of the basest conduct. In N.S.W. re-
cently, Judge M‘Farland was mercilessly assailed
by a Bega paper which made charges which would
have been met by a £lO,OOO writ if directed against
any private citizen, but so far the editor of that
paper has not suffered. We agree with this
Palmerston man. If definite published charges of
scandalous misconduct are not refuted by definite
evidence the public will begin to believe them.
Judges may lose in reputation by standing too
much on their own dignity.
It has been remarked that “ Irishmen are
great Democrats in their own country, but great
aristocrats in this country.” Judging from the
tenacious manner in which many Irishmen in Aus-
tralia cling to Conservatism,- tbi3 saying would
seem to contain a great deal of truth. The late
Solicitor-General of N.S.W., Mr. J’hos. Slattery,
was present at the banquet given to Dr. O’Doherty,
M.P., in Melbourne the other evening, and in a
soul-stirring speech strongly advocated the claims
of the Irish Democracy, and the abolition of Irish
landlordism. It is a strange thing that Tom should
give utterance to such Liberal ideas at a national
gathering and still be such an anti-Democrat in
colonial politics, and he leagued with the very
class who would, if they could, bring about legis-
lation that would be as disastrous in its effects here
as it has been in the Erne; aid Isle.
The opening address of the Hon. J. B.
Patterson to his Castlemaine (Vic.) constituents
the other day is as able and as good as any election
speech delivered by the other leading politicians
in Victoria. It is stated that a j ournaiist not only
wrote the first speech delivered by Mr. Patterson,
but actually rehearsed it with him one day in the
Castlemaine Theatre Royal, making him bring out
the salient points with oratorical effect. Since
then he has wonderfully improved, and is now
considered one of the masters of stump oratory of
the Oily Gammon school. He first introduced
himself to public life by attending tea and muffin
gatherings, and earned the reputation of being a
“ very nice man.” He played his cards well, and
has been elected at the top of the poll for Castle-
maine at every election during the past 15 years,
and can always hold the seat against all comers.
Auckland people should be proud and
happy, for they have the distinction of being the
first to introduce poor-law guardians into this
quarter of the world. Among other blessings of
civilisation they now enjoy a poor rate, and they
hope soon to have a workhouse. Perhaps, though,
it is an open question as to whether the work-
house system, with its separation of husband,
wife, and children, and its gaol-like regulations is
much more barbarous than the N.S.W plan of
sending to prison with hard labour those who are
so unfortunate as to ba destitute. It this colony
would only add flogging to imprisonment,
as Henry VIII. and Elizabeth did in England in
their times, we might claim with pride that we
were far ahead of our neighbours—we can pretty
well hold our own for brutality now. Advance
Australia, go on, and be a great nation, you are
rapidly gaining experience. Gallows, triangles,
imprisonment for poverty, poor rate, and work-
houses, all these you have now, and if they can’t
make you advance they ought to—we won't say in
which direction.
Mr. Copeland, M.P., has a humour which
is all his own. He wants members who have
served in Parliament seven years, to be granted a
perpetual pass over “existing iine3,” and to be
consequently dead-heads on the train for ever.
This, for services to their bleeding country! If
Hurley, of Nareiian, hadn’t soared, he would nave
been one of those entitled to this boon—and why
not ? Though he didn’t take up the time of the
House with his oratory, he had been a member of
the Onamber ever since they started it. In his
tenth year of legislation, the old gentleman mace
hm first, and, so far as we know, only oratorical
effort. Taking advantage of a motion for ad-
journment, he rose, and looking at a document of
the size and appearance of a curl-Daper, which he
held in his hand, said, amidst a dead and ghostly
silence : “Mr. Speaker, about a mile and three
chains from the Bangerdaliy Falls there is a
road ” "No! ” ejaculated Mr. John Shepherd,
who was then the mereurial member for Welling-
ton. There was a laugh at the boyish interrup-
tion; upon which Mr. Hurley, of Nareiian, gazed
round with a look of semi-surprise, methodically
folded up his notes, took his seat, and (to quote a
willing witness in a recent coroniai enquiry) was
never known to speak again.
There are a few gushing Irishmen in Vic-
toria not unlike some we have here. The “fut’
of each of them is alt that is seen sticking out
from behind the curtain when anything in the
shape of a welcome to a distinguished irishman
is given by his compatriots in tne colonies. They
are ready to pour out any quantity of amorphous
eloquence aud gelatinous gabble about “ould
Oireland, the jim o’ the say,” and “the down-
thradden an opprissed nayehun” at meetings of
the Young Men’s Hibernian Association, and little
Paddy O Rafferty whisky-parties, but when it
comes to standing boldly out and reaching forth
the hand of welcome and approbation to a true
Irish patriot, they have business of a death-and-life
character to attend to. An instance of these facts
was given at the O’Doherty banquet ici Melbourne,
which was not attended; by any of the members,
such as Duffey. Toohey, Hunt, and the rest, who
are screaming Irish patriots when they want the
Irish vote, but who take care to hide their alleged
sympathies on the eve of a general election when
all-round support is wanted. It would be well if
the Irishmen of this colony, as well as of Victoria,
would carefully strike out the names of skulking
pathriots at the next general election. The man
who is ashamed of his own country will not be of
much value to his adoDtcd one. If he loft who* v
now calls ‘ this glorious land of the SoiinT ll6
Seas to go to England, and thrived thafoP l
would blush at the mention of such an outlaid, 6
place as Australia, even as he now blush**; 8
hides himself behind the curtain whenever
asked to publicly identify himself with the r 0 6 J 8
ofhreiand. Satan is sick of making room fjj
Mr. Duncan Gillies, the self-recogniso*
Premier of Victoria, has been spouting to theawS
people of Echuca after this fashion—“ I beliefs
a fair distribution of wealth throughout the en*. a
community, because it is then of more v«i , 8
than when shut up in the hands of one or +“ e
people. It is not always possible to diffuse mrml 0
throughout a country, but I believe in the
ciple, and everyone in the country is working f ?'
it. Everyone is tryffig to raise the position m
himself and his family. To whatever extent thS*
is done, the character of the community i« 5?"
proved, and the circumstances of the people
b l tte , r :’ The sapient Gillies’ platitude, to th!
effect that everyone who improves his positing
betters his circumstances, is statesmanlike in
highest degree. But surely he was chaffing
Echuca people when he told them that evervrm!
is working for the principle of diffusing m 2
throughout the country. A man liberally diffnaE
everythmg for which he can get money Th
‘greed ” he religiously preserves, as a rule, w 2
reminds us that the Victorians are just now thint
mg of erecting a memorial to Sir Moses Monteflor*
There was a worthy old gentleman who had
gotten to diffuse an odd million or so, at the tw
of his death. But if Gillies means by “ diffusing
money,” boldly investing it, then Vanderbiit w»=
the greatest philanthropist that ever died $
apoplexy. The chances are, though, that the wiiv
Scot doesn’t know what he means. Neither do
The Queen has knighted Mr. William
Hardman, editor of the Morning Post. It is no
surprise to learn that Mr. fl.’s patient labours in
the service of his Sovereign have at length been
recognised. He did indeed deserve well of her
and, for the matter of that, of the upper suckles
generally. To the Morning Post is society in-
debted for those exhaustive records of its domes
which Thackeray so unmercifully satirised. Has
Lady Jones retired to her seat in Suffolk, has Lord
bmitn been attacked with influenza* or Viscount
Brown taken the air in a hath chair—are not all
these things written in the Morning Post ? As
for the Queen and Boyal Family, we venture to
believe tnat not one of them ever indulged in a
ride, drive, walk, or cough, that wasn’t duly
chronicled by the watchful Post. Her Majesty is
presumed to be unaware of the existence of any
other daily paper. Vague references to the Times
may have reached her royal ears, but the Post is
the only journal she reads. So, in recognition of
the graceful, scnolarly, and elevated tone of
Court Intelligence,” and of the fact that all
subjects of a vulgar—or what is called “popu-
”~nature are excluded from the columns
of the Mooning Post, the editor is be-
knighted. He will wear the distinction admirably.
The servile and lickspittle tendencies of the pre-
sent; era among that British race that used to be
distinguished for its bluff and manly indepen-
dence, are readily comprehensible when it is con-
sidered that the first lady of the land, she whose
high moral example is so much vaunted as one of
the blessings bestowed by a benign Providence
upon a happy race, when she is of a mind to indi-
cate what is her ideal of what is noble and worthy
in journalism, passes over the splendid army of
intellectual chiefs whs lead the thought of the
nation, and stamps with her approbation the chief
of the few flunkeys of the Press.
“Dr. O’Doherty has been feted by his
compatriots at St. Patrick’s Hall, and he has gone
to England to vomit treason in the House of Com-
mons. He vomited a good deal at this banquet,
and seemed, like the bulk of his countrymen, to
have an affection for dynamite and firebrands.
He was quite confide it about the restoration of
the Irish Parliament, and he seemed just the kind
of man to lead on a squadron of petroleuses.” The
above appeared in the Echo from its Melbourne
correspondent. The writer of it belongs to that
class of human vermin whose existence goes far
to prove the theologicaL dogma of man’s depra-
vity. Had he been an American a hundred years
ago, he’d have been Arnold s trusty henchman,
and, for a consideration, would have led the
Hessians to the hut where the traitor Washington
was maturing his treasonable plans. As a Scot, he
would have lived to a ripe old age in London on
the lucre obtained from “Billy the Butcher” for
putting Hanoverian cut-throats on "Charlie’s”
track. If an Irishman, his would have been the
chief evidence in convic.ing Wolfe Tone and
Emmet. It is probable that a majority of
Englishmen honestly think that the repeal of
the Act of Union between Great Britain and
Ireland would be the first step in the disruption
of the Empire. It is certain that avast majority
of Irishmen just as honestly believe that it would
have an entirely different effect-would strengthen
instead of weaken the tie between the two
islands—bring peace and prosperity to the smaller,
while in no way injuring the larger, and dissipate
the ill-feeling caused by centuries of misunder-
standing. One can respect the sincerity of both
parties. If it is “vomitting treason” to wish to
see one’s fellows well-fed and contented instead
of starving and rebellious, then some of the best
men of all lands have done little but vomit trea-
son all their lives. And if the man who has spent
40 years in building up a reputation for fair-deal-
ing and charity is just the sort of person “to lead
on a squadron of petroleuses,” it is only fair to
say that Gladstone, MorJey, Labouchere, and many
other leading Britons appear inclined to join the
troop. In such a company, the Echo correspon-
dent would never enlist —except lor the purpose
of turning Queen’s evidence, of the two, we pre-
fer the person who vomits treason to him who
pukes falsehoods.
THE IRISH MIMBERS.
At the banquet given to Dr. O’Doherty by
the Irishmen of Melbourne the other night neither
of the three Irish Catholic members—Duffy,;Hunt
and Toohey—were present—
Bould Duffy looked blue, he
Said slyly to Toohey,
“ This dinner we’ll shunt;
The elictions are near, and
Our coorse we must steer, and ”
“ Yer right there,” says Hunt.
“ The wit may be flowin’,
But would we be goin’
Our praspicts to stunt,
And be an undone three
Bekase of our counthry ? ”
“ No, says Hunt.
“ We won’t be denyin’,
There is an undyin’
Hate burns—to be blunt—
In our hearts for the Saxon,
But his liv’ry our backs on ”
“ It is that,” says Hunt.
“ Some our views may deflect from,
What can ye expect from
A pig but a grunt ?
We’ll laugh in their faces,
And still keep our places,
“ Lord sind it,” says Hunt.
CAUTION.
The Famous St. Louis Lager Beer does not re-
quire a patent medicine advertisement. Health,
wealth, ana Pappiness is the result of drinking the
genuine St. Louis Beer. 35,000,000 bottles sold
annually, receiving Gold Medals and the highest
awards wherever exhibited. Be sure and get the
genuine article, bee the letter Ais on each bottle*
the Eagle looking through it.*
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life*
When h »ppy birds, with joyous songs,
The breezy morn salute,
How nice to go to Summerfleld
To get a masher suit I*


M Y ONLY VALENTINE.
return of the hateful day brings all
instances connected with that valentine
tbe eircu mind> Even after the )ong . lap3e G f
vividl Tfind the colour risiDg to my cheeks as I
yearS 1 She was one of those slender, fair-haired,
ffrlte ' , innkimr little creatures who appear as the
etbe f ea ' of womanhood to very young: men.
iie J T Las extremely youthful at the period when
•a was my queen, goddess, all in all. Looking
Mftr , with the cynical eye of old bachelorhood, to
, lunch when Love’s fitful fever raged un-
within my breast, I may feel doubts as to
H absolute reality, so to speak, of Maria’s charms.
th 6 flthing seems to whisper me ,that she was of
naming thinness, and that her tresses were the
,u * pa of underdone hay. But it was enough that
c ° , her , i was introduced to Maria Mills at
La Robinson’s. It was a small and early evening
1 tr We waltzed together, and adj ourne and to the
Pfl servatory to get cool. She accepted an ice
Tnm my trembling hands, and consumed it with a
Lntv grace altogether maddening to the male
looker My appetite for Maria seemed to grow
Pl }th what she fed on. As she handed me the
mntv plate and went off to waltz with another
fellow I felt that Maria was my fate. It was a
hiiFstul evening, too soon over. When Maria drove
o tf in a cab with her mother I .walked home-on
a*-
A week of delicious unrest followed tbe
Robinson’s “small and early.” My passion for
Maria grew more soul-possessing every hour. But
the path of love was strewn with difficulties-
Maria, I discovered, was one of nine, with beauty
for her only dower. As for me-my prospects*
although rising, had at present merely attained
the altitude of 30 shillings per week. Marriage
seemed so out of the question that I resigned my-
self to the prospect of a “ long engagement.” Not
that Maria and I were engaged, bear in miod. In
point of fact, I had never seen Maria since the
memorable evening when that one waltz, supple-
mented by the' ice episode, formed the sum total
of my courtship. Yet my heart told me that I
had not been altogether unpleasing to my goddess,
ghe had smiled upon me with an earnestness that
permitted of but one interpretation. All I needed
was an opportunity to declare myself and go in
and win. But how ? Ah, how!
* * *
Mentally discussing this problem over my
office lunch (three sandwiches and an apple), a
happy solution occurred to me. Yalentine’s Day
loomed in the immediate future. An institution
that had hitherto excited my derision now com.
mended itself to me as being both time-honoured
and poetic. Why not send Maria a valentine ? Not
an ordinary gold-and-silver paper Cupid and
pierced heart arrangement—but something worthy
of the recipient. A cluster of fragrant blossoms*
reclining upon a cushion of moss at the bottom of
a fancy box. I unfolded the notion to my fellow
slave, Jenkins, who, by the way, knew something
of the Mills family, and was himself a humble ad-
mirer- not that I was a bit afraid of Jenk.—of the
divine Maria. He warmly approved of the scheme,
and meekly hinted at “ original verses to go with
’em.” I wrung the inky hand of Jenkins, and
congratulated him upon his delicate fancy. For
three long nights I wrestled with the Muse. The
invaluable Jenkins had suggested that the verses
should form an acrostic on my name. ’Twas an
ingenious idea, which considerably added to the
difficulty of the task. Some of my quaintest con-
ceits, I discovered, had to be sacrificed to the
exigencies of the acrostic. At last, after a final
all-night sitting of 11 hours, the verses were
thrown off. Two of them—
T hough the day he dark and drear,
H eaven is nigh when thou art near;
0 Maria, could you read
M y poor heart—your own would bleed,
Angel bright, with golden hair,
S oft>y hearken to my prayer.
B y the stars that shine below,
R escue me from utter woe;
0 ffer me a honeyed life—
W hisper you will he my wife.
N ought on earth do I desire
E xcept to die with you, Maria.
Poets are generally believed to take unusual
Pride In their work, and I was no exception to the
rule. Besides, this was my first poem. I surveyed it
with all the exaltation of a young hen contem-
plating her pioneer egg. I took it down to the
office, and solicited the critical opinion of Jenkins
upon its merits. That invaluable creature warmly
approved, and suggested cream-coloured paper
with a gold lace edging. Excellent I I bought a
sheet, and induced Jenkins (splendid penman—
could knock off ‘Lord’s Prayer Ml times in the cir-
cumference of a threepenny bit) to make a copy
°f the veises, paying special attention to the capi-
tala. He did, and the result was rapture. If the
Poem looked impressive in the rough, what shall
I say of it in the completed state. That it looked
~ as Jenkins reverently murmured—“ fit for
Maria,” The flowers had been ordered the even-
-IQk previous. So I just slipped round to the shop
an <l fetched them while old Biggs—our boss—was
at luncheon. They were arrayed according to in-
structions on a bed moss, and the price was 15s #
wl) at was such a paltry expenditure when the
Prize at issue was Maria ? Nothing. I carried them
111 a neat box to the office, placed the poem inside
ruefully, packed the box in paper, addressed it
aQ d confided my treasure to Jenkins, who volun-
ee red to set it through at the post-office. He
w®B such a long while gone that I became anxious.
°uld the box have been injured, and Jenkins
'‘kd by a cab ? No, he came back presently, and
smilingly told me that it was all right, and the
Postage was two and fourpence. Blind fool that I
was, to pay Jenkins,
* * *
Xt must have been about an hour later. I
88 Sazing at a ledger in a condition of langorous
8a '* ium * when old Biggs called to me, from hi 8
! ’return, to bring him some papers that were
ln K on my desk. I clutched at a handful, placed
res' 11 iD lr ° i ' t of him ’ and was talking back to
meditations on Maria, when the dulcet
ea of Biggs recelled me. A presentiment of
coming evil affected my legs, a 8 they bore me once
again to Biggs.
“ Mr. Browne.”
“ Sir.”
“ Do you devote much of your time-my time-
to this sort of work ?”
Tha perspiration beaded out upon my brow as
Biggs held up the verses to Maria, in the rough,
for my inspection.
“ It’s quite a mistake, sir.”
“Yes, Mr. Browne, it is; you will leave this
eveniDg.”
“Oh, sir!”
“Not another word, Mr. Browne. Mine is a
hardware business and I entertain a rooted anti-
pathy to clerks who indulge their imaginations. I
had one young man in my employ who miscon-
ducted himself as you have done, and he took to
drinking. Poetry and debauchery have always
been regarded as inseparable—in the hardware
trade. That will do.”
* * *
The next morning—Valentine’s morning-
found me situationless, but happy. I amused ray-
self with speculations as to exact moment when
Maria would receive my token of affection. After
breakfast I felt emboldened to stroll round to the
little red brick temple in street, which con-
tained my goddess, with the faint hope of seeing
her face at the window. If I could but catch her
eye it would tell my fate. I was hovering near
the house when—Heavens! my Maria came trip-
ping down the street alone. The light of love
shone in her eyes, and my flowers were reclining
upon her bosom. The vision was so overpowering
that l had hardly strength to lift my hat. But I
pulled myself together and decided that now or
never was the time to speak.
“ Oh, Miss Mills, Maria, may I, may I hope ?”
“Mr. Brownell”
The startled tone of Maria’s voice and a strange
look of bewilderment in Maria’s eyes took me
somewhat aback, but I attributed her manner to
maidenly modesty, and dashed off with fresh
fervour."
“I love you, Maria. But you cannot need the
assurance. Every word I wrote came from my
heart. Those flow but before I was half
through with my vows Maria had tossed up her
little chin and run baok to her home. Stunned,
heartbroken, and crushed, I was hurrying, any-
where, to hide myself, when my eyes lighted upon
a cream-colaured paper with gold edging. Maria
must have dropped it from her pocket in her con-
fusion. Mechanically I unfolded the paper. “My
poor, unappreciated verses,” I murmured, and—
read this:—
B eauteous maiden, at thy feet
All these blossoms bright I lay;
S corn them not, oh, I entreat!
If thou woulds’t not see me clay.
L ong have I in silence sought
J ust one gentle word from th ee—
Earth hath on its bosom naught
Nicer in young men than me.
Keep these flowrets, white and blue,
I implore, sweet maid divine I
N or despise the lover who
S ends you now this valentine.
I saw it all. The long absence of Jenkins at the
post-office was accounted for. The perfidious
wretch had untied my parcel, substituted hi g
wretched rhyme (a doggrel of no pretensions) for
my poem, and won Maria for himself—by means
of My Only Valentine.
They are playing it pretty low down on
the parsons in New Zealand. The cloth, as the
laity, seem to feel acutely the wash of the “ wave
of depression which is passing over the colony'’
(see morning papers), and the unregenerate
amongst the journalists of Wairarapa have pro-
posed that a percentage of the profits arising from
the use of the totalisator on local racecourses he
devoted to supplementing the parsons’ salary.
Another newspaper of a more practical turn of
mind has suggested that the clergy should try their
luck by devoting a portion of their offertory to
the purchase of tickets in some of the “ consulta-
tions ” which present such inducements to the
speculative. Well, why not ?—
Because one is a parson, and must wear a longish
coat,
Should the uniform prevent him putting up his
little note
(In a sweep, or “ consultation, ’ any game of
speculation,
With a chance of raking in a pool o’er which “ the
cloth ” might gloat.
Sure, it’s only taking chances, be the game a
pound on earth,
Or a crown in the Hereafter, decked with gems of
priceless; worth;
If religion will not pay him, who, indeed, could
e’er gainsay him,
Shou’d the parson “run a martingale” to try and
gain a “girth ”?
THE CARINGTON CRAZE.
We don’t wonder you start—’tis enough to amaze;
The world has gone mad on the Carington craze!
The women are Harbord* in type;
There are Carington ices and Carington trips I
And we heard, in a restaurant, as we passed by—
"Put last Saturday's steak in the Carington pie I ”
Being loyal to the backbone, we entered with glee
In the Carington Hall for soma Carington tea:
That night we’d to send, for our shakes and our
ills,
To the Carington chemist for Carington pills.
Behold, sir, one morn, and this passeth a joke,
The missis rigged out in a “ margarie ” cloak,
And the bootboy we caught (he was always a
“nut”)
On the block in the swing of the Carington strut
“ Three courses for sixpence ,” each day you may
Is stuck up in the street as “ The Cariwjton Feed! ’
There’s a big Terry boom in man’s collars, you
know,
And the rage now, in ties, is tha Lord Bcrtit$
bow;
But Wellington’s warned—it may be but a whim,
But they've called all tlie cheap mutton pies after
him!
“ Take heed to your souls. It is possible
for even a minister to fall from grace.” Thus
spake a Wesleyan Gospel-dealer in his charge to
a quintette of candidates for ordination at the
Wesley Church, Melbourne. Observe, dear
friends, what a beautiful discretion tempered the
rev. gentleman’s admonition. “ It is possible.” He
didn’t say it is not surprising, or it is very natural,
or it is quite the usual thing. No, dear friends*
He said “ it is possible for even a minister to fall
from grace.” How and when that melancholy
conviction first dawned upon the good man’s mind
matters not. Perhaps he read The Bulletin.
Anyway, we are glad he dropped a hint to his
young friends. Parsons do slip away from grace
now and again, which isn’t to be wondered at.
The Church oilers such temptations. If a ballet-
master were exposed to one-half the allurements
that gather round a Wesleyan curate, he might
come Blithering down in the same way. We will
presume to give our little charge to these young
men:—
Ways oe palling.
Ye youthful servants of the Loard,
In silence gather near:
List patiently to every word
We whisper in your ear;
A caution e’en the purest need—
Don’t deem this out of place—
’Tis possible, it is, indeed,
For you to fall from grace.
Auld Clootie comes in subtle forms,
In fairest garments dres’t;
And, if so be your hearts are warm,
Nick puts ’em to the test.
Alasl how often do we read
Of sad “church-scandal” easel
’Tis possible, it is, indeed,
For you to fall from grace.
The dainty damsels in the choir,
Who warble songs of praise,
Can set a cleric's soul afire
In lots of winning ways!
Of fair communicants take heed
(Sweet things in silk and lace)—
’Tis possible, it is, indeed,
For you to fall from grace.
Of lady teachers, too, beware 1
( We’re chummy with a few)
They watch the kids with tender care,
And steal a glance at you ;
The mischief that those glances breed
To tell we haven’t space—
’Tis possible, it is, indeed,
For you to fall from grace.
Think not a parson is exempt
From failings of the flesh;
If you hold Satan in contempt
He’ll get you in his mesh;
Though Joseph from temptation flee’ed,
Yet (pardon our grimace)
’Tis possible, it is, indeed,
For you to fall from grace.
The War Cry on the “Gambler” (con-
densed):—". . • His home was a wretched one,
and the place was full of sporting papers, race,
books, etc. His wife got concerted after this,
Then, taking the sporting papers from
the cupboard, he made a bonfire of them all’
Another Sunday came round, and the gambler
was on bis knees at the penitent-form for salva-
tion.” Not a bit of it I Let’s try the subject in a
jingle. The A, please. Thanks. Nowfor-
Tiie Gambular.
Just mark his coat, the lining is
Most level with his heels,
The yellow ochre of his eye*
Betrays how bad he feels.
He’s sad, and sore, and sorry, he
Is sodden, shaky, sick;
And on that Sabbath morn he's not
A “ deener in his kick.”
Another picture—gaze on this —
Behold the smart blue tie,
The “ two-ten” fantail-banger, and
The health-glow in his eye!
A little book i 3 in his hand;
He leads a kid or two;
And when the Harmy starts to work
He stays and sees it through.
Pah! what a dark and frow sy den!
You see as ope’s the door,
The cheese is in the fire-place,
The butter’s on the floor!
Whoosh! drive that horrid cat away,
She’s ’neath the table there I
She will not stir I oh, thunder, ’tis
The boss’s head of hair!
It was a cottage trim and neat,
With gilding, too, bedight;
And mark the happy children play!
It is a blessed sight!
The father folds them in his arms,
While mother tends the pot;
Oh, in that fairy cottage they
Enjoy a happy lot.
You’ve guessed, of course, but still your e wrong!
You’d swear by any star
You have but to stretch forth your hand
And spot the gambular I
Go to! that seedy, sorry man,
That locomotive jug,
Is not a bit the gambular—
That rum-bung is the “mug.”
That cottage nestling in the nook,
Whence sounds the light guitar,
Is j ust the little freehold of
The wicked gambular I
That humpy near, of bark and slabs,
The roof all patched with hides—
Oh, yes, that horrid, haunted hutch,
Is where the “ mug ” resides.
* “ The very whites were yellow-ochre.”—Brun-
ton Stephens.
We met him on the Watson’s Bay steamer
on Sunday. He was seedy in appearance, and had
a what-is-left-for-me-but-suicide look in his
melancholy optics. Presently he, edged up to us
and began talking. All the seedy, melancholy-
looking men who travel on steamers seem to think
they have a Heaven-assigned mission to talk to
us. “Do you wonder,” said he, with the abrupt-
nees of oppressive grief, “ that I am sad ? Listen
thenI am united to a bardess. I was about the
date of signing articles vastly proud of the con-
nection, but that is some years ago. Now, when
I think of the dangers I encountered and the in-
genuity I wasted to win her, I become dan-
gerous. I braved the opposition of a Soudan
warrior. He was of long-standing (6ft. 4in.), and
you might have suspended your hat on the ex-
tremities of his moustache. Often, too, have I in
the dead of night, with dauntless heart, run the
blockade of the bulldog. Now I am prepared to
subsidise any person enterprising enough to
elope with her. But I have got the worst
to tell you yet. When I think of the fond
parents I robbed (her fond parents were pre-
serving her for a youth of noble birth), re-
morseful groans issue from me, and I almost
pray that a comet would oblige by going a little
out of his way and swooping this misguided
planet into the sun. Heaven knows I have tried
hard to win her from her errors. Every little wile
and way which something very little short of
genius could suggest I have tried. For instance, I
have arrived at (say) 3 a.m. at the portals of our
mansion, with the Plimsoll mark considerably sub-
merged, carried the furniture by storm, at great
personal inconvenience and loss, but all to no pur-
pose. On one such occasion she heaped coals of
fire (a bucketful) on my head. I have read of this
kind of experiment being tried with pleasing re-
sults, hut not in my case, sir, not in my case.” And
he slowly and mournfully passed his stubby Ungers
through locks that seemed to be burning still.
“Let me,” he said, clutching our dexter arm, “ af-
ford you a glimpse of the bosom of our family,
‘Thomas,’she says, ‘I require silence. Iam en-
gaged upon a little ballad, which I shall
call “Fading Away,” and I am now seeking in-
spiration.’ ‘Dear me, what a pityl’ Isay,‘just
five minutes ago if you had seen the tarts fading
away before littie Johnnie you would have got in-
spiration enough to have carried you right
through. I know it inspired me with the idea
that one of little Johnnie’s sort is enough in a
family.’ ‘ You!' she hisses, advancing towards me,
‘you would destroy the fairest, purest, wholest
soul that e’er a woman encased; you have no soul
—you are a lucus natural of Satanic origin.’ I
shrink into a nook for the remainder of the even-
ing. The most grinding part of the tyranny,
though, is the working off of her verse. I get a
yard or so of a ballad sent ms by Alex. Vic., &o.
(she is called in full after our gracious Queen),
to my office with a message to the effect that I
need not think of coming home again until I get
some editor to swear that he will insert the ballad
unabridged. In the pursuit of this vocation, I
have put together a record of crime which would
bring down the house at a Salvation Army meet-
ing—corruption, prevarication, perjury, threaten-
ing murder, &c. Even now, a dreadful rumour
reaches me to the effect that a Press vigilance
committee, with the object of my ‘ removal,’ is
in course of formation. But I have not yet sue-
eumed. The following is the latest step ”
But we had departed. For an instant he released
us from the bondage of his glittering eye, and wo
incontinently fled into the stokehole. Anything
was better than the recital of bis woes. We
walked back from Watson’s. If ever we go down
there again, it will be in a Rob Roy canoe. We
are not to be had twice.
* This is pronounced " Hubbard’’—but not by
U % Tbi&is pronounced " Barite’—but not by us.
AN INSIDIOUS FOE.
The recent report of the President of the Central
Board of Health on the subject of Typhoid Fever,
is a revelation that will startle the most careless
and thoroughly arousB all who nave the public
health and wall being at heart. Between the
Christmas holidays and the time of the President’s
report, fifty-two cases of Typhoid Fever were re-
ported, more than 50 per cent, of which proved
f &1#
Dr.* Rose, is reported by the public press, to'
have said at the same meeting that if all Typhoid
cases were reported, it would be found that the
precentaga of deaths was much larger. He be-
lieved that at least 75 per cent, of the cases ended
fatally. Typhoid Fever had many phases which
were frequently mistaken for other diseases. In
all cases the same poison was at work concentrat-
ing itself on the weakest organs of the subject, but
that all cases were preventable.
The“ London Lancet” says the death rate for
Typhoid throughout the Australian colonies is far
higher than in England. In Queensland, of late,
being eight times as fatal. .
While there may not, as yet, be any immediate
cause ior alarm, it is impossible to avoid anxiety
on the score of the appearance of Typhoid Fever
in our midst. Typhoid, in a mild form, or in-
duced by exceptional causes in individual in-
stances, is of course, always with us. But in its
aspect as an epidemic, it becomes a grave and
serious matter indeed; and that there is danger of
its spread in this relation, is unhappily apparent.
It is the part of wisdom, therefore, that people
should be on their guard, and that every care
should be taken which sanitary science suggests
to fight back the foe. The purity and cleanliness
of our inhabitations, and their surroundings are
imperative matters. All deposits of offal- dirt*
and the like most be carefully prevented. Disin-
fectants should be used freely. Milk should be
boiled ere it is consumed, ana water well filtered,
or still better, distilled. But these precautions are
not all sufficient. If we would escape contagion
move unharmed in the midst of an epidemic, our
blood must be pure and healthy. Now, whether
from one cause or another, there are very tew
people whose blood is pure and healthy. The
habits of our daily live s, indulgence in the pleasant
vices of eating and drinking; the inhalation or
impure air, not to speak of the peculiarly debili-
tating effects upon the human system of the
recent changeable and trying weather, all tend to
the demoralisation of the circulatory system, and
the disintegration of its chemical constituents.
The phosphates are diminished in quantity, and
weakened nervous energy is the result. In this
condition the system is unable to avoid contagion,
or to throw off disease, if infected. No person is
safe whose blood is poor or corrupt, and it behoves
everybod y who values health and life to remem-
ber this. Yet it is remarkable how few do so, until
striiken down; th« more so, that it is so easy to
keep the blood, and the organs upon which it acts,
pure and uncontaminated. A regular appeal to
Warner's safe cure and safe pilis is all that is
needed to guard against the insidious poisons
which surround us; remembering that these
agents have been instrumental m saving
thousands from infection, and that they have
faithfully stood the test of experience. Thus
fortified, the blood is invulnerable to the in-
fiuences of disease germs. The
restored to its origin a. or natural state, is imper-
vious to disease, and it would seem that this
serious fact is one of those lessons of Providence
liiid down for our guidance and warning. Healtn,
then, is the essential; and health to the blood,
and. therefore, to the whole svstem. can be, and is
to be accomplished, by an application of the facts
to which reference has been made.
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.


[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— What have we been doing
this week ? Chiefly trying to keeD ourselves cool,
1t think. As lor amusements, there have been
none to speak of, excepting, of course, the
theatres, &c. We went one night to the Federal
Minstrels and cried over poor old Uncle Tom s
troubles, and laughed at Sam Keenan’s funny
antics. And now, dear, can you tell me why
people love to go and witness harrowing scenes
on the stage, which, if well represented, bruise the
feelings for the time just as if they were all real ?
I never could understand it, but it is a fact that
the more tragic a play is, the better it pleases the
public. They go and soak their pocket handker-
chiefs with their tears and come away well satis-
fied with their night’s entertainment. Truly we
mortals are a strange loti
I had an invitation to attend the opening of the
new Oriental and Continental Ice Gardens, at
Coogee Bay, last Saturday afternoon, but. I had
previously promised myself to go to the univer-
sity and hear the Organ Recital. The “ Ice Gar-
dens” sounded particularly cool and tempting
on such a hot day, and I longed to go, but you
know I never, never break a promise, even if I
only make it to myself, so I betook myself and
party to hear Mr. Gehde on the organ. He plays
particularly well, dear, and I am sure the music
was much appreciated. My attention was so com-
pletely taken up with the playing that I never
noticed who were there or how people were
dressed, so if you are curious upon these two
points you must remain so, ma Belle.
Cooking classesare becoming more popular every
day, and I do hope that in time they will effect a
change for the better in the home cooking of the
present day. Many of my friends remark that it
is all very well to turn out nice toothsome dishes
as they do at these classes, when everything of the
best is to hand and no expense spared, which, in-
deed, is very true, for, in my opinion, the most
creditable cook is the one who can make good
effects with small or indifferent material. But,
however, these classes are good things, and make
a pleasant occupation for ladies who have time to
spare for them. A story is told of a lady who has
been taking lessons in the art. She was about to
give a party, and upon naming her “ invites ’ to a
lady friend, the latter exclaimed, “Why, you have
only asked those people whom you hardly ever
speak to, and have left out your most intimate
friends.” “Oh, that’s all right,” she replied,
laughing, “ I’m only practising cooking, you see,
and I’m going to make all the sweets for the party
myself. I don’t want to punish my friends .”
Now, don’t shiver and look shocked, but I really
and truly believe that cremation will very soon
be universally adopted. And don’t you think
that, after all, it is the better way of disposing of
our dead ? It is only that we are unused to the
idea that makes it repulsive to us, but in time to
come I am certain we shall feel far more horrified
at the idea of the coffin, the deep hole, and the
dreadful decay which we know is going on all the
time. Far, far better is the urn with its handful
of pure ashes: and not only is cremation more
wholesome than burial, but look at the saving of
' expense! I believe in the United States the under-
takers are erecting crematories, so they really
mean it there, at all events. This is a doleful sub-
ject, isn’t it ? but I saw a hearse pass just no w con-
veying a most elaborate-looking coffin and its
freight to the cemetery, and I couldn’t help think-
ing it absurd that people should attempt to show
the world the extent of their grief by the quan-
tities of brass-headed tacks and other ornamenta-
tions they cause to have put on the coffins of their
dead, and also by the quantity of crape they wear.
I suspect such demonstration greatly, and have
little respeot for the feeling whioh prompts it.
But to come to matters more cheerful, I hear
that at fashionable weddings where the parties
have more money than they ought to have, or
more than they know how to spend wisely, the
bridesmaids, instead of the usual bouquets, carry
baskets of the most expensive hot-house fruit.
This gives scope for a grand display of wealth,
'but is, to my mind, as vulgar as it is unpoetical. I
expect next they will begin to throw grapes at
three guineas a pound and peaches at five shillings
each in the pathway of the wedded pair, and a nice
mess it will make of the brides’ satin slippers, too!
Flowers are never out of place, but fruit is only
nice for dessert.
Did it ever strike you that men are very sad-
looking animals ? I don’t mean facially, but by
their almost total discardanoe of colour In their
dress. We all like colour, and doctors even aver
that bright hues have an exhilarating effect upon
the nervous system. Why, then, should men stub-
bornly keep to their black or neutral tints and
leave all the “exhilarating effects ” to be brougot
about by us ? Apropos to this, 1 read in an Engbsh
paper the other day that as black absorbs the sun’s
rays, it was more than probable that the hundreds
or miles of black cloth whioh parades the streets
of London, might in some degree be the cause of
the gloom of that city. It also went on to say that
it would be a curious question for scientists, “ How
much light is absorbed by a square mile of black
clothes ?" You know that a room papered with dark
paper is far more gloomy than if the paper were of
a light tint, so it stands to reason that the dismal
garb of men must have an equally depressing
effect. Of course we aren’t conscious of it, simply
because we are accustomed to nothing better, but
once let them adopt colours and I feel sure we
should soon feel an extra vein of cheerfulness
streaked through our Dature?.
r A bywave of “ uncomfortable things” is pass-
ing over our city just now, such as murders, fatal
fights, typhoid fever, and what not. Indeed,
lately our daily papers have been nearly as full of
accounts of these horrors as the London journals.
I heard of a dreadful case of typhoid the other
dav which swept away a family of three handsome
boys—their mother was a widow lady, and they
were her all. Dreadfully sad, isn’t it? It. makes
me think of the touching lines which always bring
a lump into my throat—
“ Oh! if I only could have back my boys,
With their lost gloves and their books to find.
Their scattered playthings am their pleasant
noise.
I sit here in the twilight, growing blind,
With hollow hands that backward reach and
ache
For the sweet trouble that the children make.”
I expect the poor lady feels just like the writer of
those lines, and would give the world to have some
of the “sweet trouble” which seems inseperable
from children, if she could only have her boys
back along with it.
I hear that the members of the Corowa Fire
Brigade intend to hold a Gipsy Encampment at
race time, that is about the 24th of next month.
Just imagine what fun the girls will have in mak-
ing their gipsy costumes, and how they will vie
with each other as to whose shall be the most be-
coming and most gipsy-llkel I think it will be
quite delightful. And now dear, good bye.
Ever your loving
MAB.
Wolfe's Schnapps has became the uaos
popular drinfe throughout the Colonies.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
THE CRITERION STOVE.
Sizes 30 33 36 39 43 inches.
Plain .... 755. 80s. 85s.
With Boiler 955. 100 s. 105 s. 1103.
Before purchasing: Household Ironmongery, send
for an illustration sheet.
We are the Only Universal Providers in the
colonies.
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Wilmamson, Gabnbb and Musgbov*.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
THE MOST GORGEOUS PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, February 11 and 13,
Benefit of the Employes and Theatre Royal
Fire Brigade.
An Entirely New Version of the Old Fairy Story,
CINDERELLA,
Saturday, February 13, Special Engagement of
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD and Miss KATE BISHOP,
who will appear in the exciting: drama,
CALLED BACK. CALLED BACK.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
OLYMPIC THEATRE,
York-street.
Lessee Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
Sub-Lessee and Director.. M. LEON CARON.
LAST NIGHTS
CARON’S ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
Great Success of Miss ALICE ST. JOHN.
On Saturday, February 13th, a Grand BENEFIT
will be tendered to M, LEON CARON.
Is. 2s. 3s. 4s.
H. J. BAMUELL, Business Manager.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bolomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND
Mr. DAMPIER as GENTLEMAN GEORGE,
THE GREEN LANEB OF ENGLAND.
Miss MYRA KEMBLE as Margaret Wheatstone.
THIS (THURBDAY) EVENING.
THE GREEN LANEB OF ENGLAND.
SATURDAY-UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Manager for Mr. Dampier FRED. GUNTHER.
Academy of music.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hiscocks.
EVERY EVhNING. UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
AN UNDENIABLE SUCCESS,
by
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
in conjunction with a specially-seleeted Dramatic
Company, in their first production of the moral
and religious (specially written) drama of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN,
witnessed each night by crowded and most
enthusiastic audiences.
nnHE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
I George-street, Haymarket.
Leisee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; staiis, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please oommunicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager .. . .. Harry Lynch.
“ The success of this Company in the Southern
portion of the colony has proved unparalleled in
the history of amusements in those places,”—
Bpga Gazette.
WESTERN TOUR will include Liverpool, Pen-
rith, Lithgow, Bathurst, Orange, Dubbo, Forbes,
Young, Grenfell, Parkes, Carcoar, Cowra, &c.
JAMISS SMITH,) Joint
H. E. BARNES, ( Agents.
Agricultural society’s ground
MALONE V. O’BRIEN.
Half a Mile, 1000 Yards, and Three-quarters
of a Mile.
£2OO.
SATURDAY, 20th FEBRUARY.
Programme or Sports :
13) Yards Handicap, £lO, £3, £2. Nomination, 33.
2 Miles Walking Handicap, £3 and Gold Medal;
2nd, £1 and Silver Medal. Nomination, 2s. 6d.
2 Miles Bicycle Race Han Heap, amateurs only.
Ist prize, Ladies’ G old Bracelet: 2nd, Silver
Bracelet. To be nominated by Ladies. Entry,
2s. 6d.
Conditions :
Sir Joseph Banks’ Rules strictly enforced. En-
tries close on Monday night, 16th February, at
Punch’s Bwan with Two Necks Hotel, Park and
George Streets. Handicaps on the IStb. Comue-
titois must; give in 13 months’ performance, and
state how long resident in the colony. Admission,
Is * children half price. Band in attendance.
Address—Secretary Sports, Malone v. O’Brien
Match.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-I respectfully
Solicit your Votes and Interest as a Director
of your Society.
FREDK. LEE.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3nd February, 1886.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions to the
Gosford Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, and at the
Gosford Public School, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions, Gos-
ford Public School.” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m,, on Wednesday,
the I Ah February, 1886,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender ,
J. H, YOUNG.
T
0 ACTORS. ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &o.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including 1 Stage.” “Theatre.” “Topical Times,”
“Dramatic Review,” “Bat,” &c., at moderate
prices. Postage iree to any address in Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank t-lace, Collips-street, Melbourne.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, February 9,1816.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.— tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbbnmbnt Gazbtti, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
JACOB GARRARD.
FOLLY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM
At rear of the ’
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STltE ET
INSTRUCTION sriven every day in Bnvi
Gymnastics, Wrestling 1 , Fencing, & c
terms, &e., apply to ‘
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor
Erina Towasliii
GOSFORD.
SALE ON THE GROUND
Saturday Next.
SPECIAL STEAMER.
TICKETS, &*>.,
BOYD and KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MALTINE.
MALTED BAELEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three eereals;
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extraot of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular and fat producing
elements—Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a'nd flesh i'n most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, arid for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Brescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration. . .
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, Ac.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy at the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent, os. nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Boa Sickness, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause,
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, MuttOß
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON■
'em
i-O
c'-J
i a
f/7
ao
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpafl« e(
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Arae
riean “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. P Ol
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious w* £
milk, superb with wine, and incompariDi
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sols Agents.
14 Strssax Slbbbt, *8 :«>*»?•


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T J * AT vTHBATOE-’'G?ee e nLanes‘of^England”*,,
GAIETY THEAT« at re lByi o lio, and Faroe
O^MUSIC?—“ Uncle Toni’s Cabin”
TTtlfile Tom’s Cabin ” booms along at the
Academy to exhilarating- and exhilarated
Sydney . wou id be a clean give-away to the
Cities if we were to say where we had to
" ch the laßt time we were round there. Perhaps
p6rch ‘ no o ther drama in which of
tber ®. are placed in more immediate and direct
em f as t than in this one. Uncle Tom, Topsy,
COD 1 o and Eva seem to stand on the four
’ of the field of human character, and each
CO f these is more a caricature than a portrait-an
ideal or embodiment rather than a model from
life. „ * *
the principal characters we have al-
Q*- r i- e n Eva is about the healthiest infant
ready BP °^ pd ‘ Q f galloping consumption, but she
that slow music in the most natural manner
does it t no t; unkind to her to say that the
P OB . 8 , 1 ” wßtoh her departure from sublunary
a udienc admiration, at least, if not with posi-
B P he ~wL™re There are many people much older
tl J e „ P vva whose death-bed would be simply a
for us, but we would desire to see the real
picnic for us, o mere make . be ]i e f. As we said
g va dies to perfection, and without any of
Fondue haste noticeable in her first attempt,
that undue nasi popular hatred
H, e Sn Legreef P The hissing and bowling with
a 8 he is received when he comes on to do his
which neiHicwc which for the moment
BoprnaltoV 8 oprna 1 to V have a disconcerting effect. Dr. Jefferis
seems performance. He is supposed to be
gtiould see this p denunciations of vice
have* never Served to make it so utterly horrible
Pn V the sight of men as it appears when embodied
* n A~ r s\ e 0 f Simon Legree. That some of the
men who hoot the slave-driver may have been
in the bar of a suburban pub. thepre-
-8 2rtinff g afternoon while their wives were chop-
£wood at home, is likely enough, but the
moral effect is the same.
8 • ®
The comic business is laid on with, a
and owes a large share of its appreciation
tnthe’strong contrast which it makes with the
Emotional In the concluding tableaux the effect
f«Tery fine. Uncle Tom, E va, and Eliza sit ou an
liJvated Plateau, which probably represents
Heaven. By itself, heaven would seem incom-
The true believer, when transoorted to the
happy Hereafter, would be unsatisfied, unless he
JS-aSsf^-nL*^s?rsasr
Heaven has only a very few inhabitants, while
the lower region is packed full.
** * «
Thn Svdney Alhambra still seems to draw
Üboß smoke-stack, and the smiles of the genial
iimifh are expansive and delightful. Matlock
takes the cake amongst the male, vocalists, and
S, .. I’m still a friend to you,” is so musically
make it difficult to suppose be could
han a triend to anyone, bhipp still per-
Sats in suwing-or making his unmelodious
inologfes for music each evening. As a dancer,
hn is as good as some we have seen, but melody
5? 18 f g hl 8 forte. He favoured the com-
«anv with “ Willie Montrose,” and after listen-
p^ y +r, W this dismal ditty, we followed Mont s
mg tO . tll lB aismai Minnie Hope . s local
son“ P “ No Fear,goes well with the assembled
multitudes. * # *
A winter-time view of the “ Green banes
of England ” is being still presented nightly at the
Rvdnev Gaiety Theatre, and into and through
thnsesame green lanes wander unchecked some of
thn mosrdiabolical specimens ofjunarrested cnmi-
nafiS which, during a chequered career of vane-
gated though untarnished innocence, it bas been
our little lot to witness. The greenery scattered
?hlrmorh thß scenery is left to the imagination of
ihe onlookers? The green lanes of England are no
greener than the plains in the vicinity of Yaes
after a long spell of dry weather, and It S 3 verdant
throughout than the average racecourse spieler.
Virtue aud vice are charmingly interblended by
the authors of the drama, who seem to have
wrought fervently to prove that after all vice is
not so very viciou i nor virtue such 18-carat stuff
as it is usually supposed to be. Indeed, so km# 8S
is a dim and hazy probability of good err
suing, the modern dramatist seems very
troubled as to the quantity of evil which he,
scatters prodigally tnrough the progress of his
piece.
* * *
Gentleman George, whose identity is
hidden under the make-up of the only Dampier. is
a viUain who. having been at one period ol his
career a gentleman, sinks deeper into the ®lough
of vileness than any less favoured Bill feykescou d
nosslblv do Eventually, with the rebound of a
baseball he emerges from the ruck, becomes the
rnediumwhereby virtue is placed smiling on her
nedesM and at the conclusion ot this engagement
we hone to hear of his embracing the one true
rhnreh and proceeding on a missionary voyage to
Gosford Boothman and Stark play their vil-
lainous characters with a fidelity which proves
they have made the study ot wickedness a
speciality or that Nature has endowed them with
so much of the old Adam that they are now merely
following her promptings. They are wicked and
auDerlatlvely vile without an effort. Their ocea-
rK flashes of virtue are but the lime-light
effects which serve to- throw into deeper subse-
quent relief the funereal gloom of their vice._Les-
nn C-rnr and M’Kenzie make the most ot small
carts and their milder forms of badness cause the
supposition that, after all, they are not naturally
had voung men, being probably led away by the
had associations with which they are surrounded.
* * *
The stage of the Gaiety Theatre will, on
Saturday eight, be occupied by the Dampier-
Sheridan "Uncle Tom's Cabin” company.. Mr.
Sheridan will appear as Marks, and Miss Living-
stone as loPsy. With the same piece running at
tPe lofdemy the public will have an opportunity
ot compariDg the rival representatives of the
various characters,
T’hfi nantomim© at the Theatre Royal,
at length to he withdrawn, and on FrE
dav Avfinimr we may hid tarewell to a Duriesniu
which for adaptai i on and local The
Rrin general arrangement, ranks amongst ine
woni produSom ot tbe totally who run th.
Royal. On Saturday evening Rignold appears in
“Called Back.”
**** . . ,
The New Opera House is now rated
“Al at L'oyd’s” by the Federated Seamens
Umon ot Australia, under whose Patronage
Pfllmpr’a nautical drama is produced, tne arama
is founded on tacts, and briefly may be
a proof of the necessity tor the birth ot Mr. Phm
soli, the seaman’s friend. It does not, however,
afford any proof of the urgent need for the birtn
of Its author.
* * * .
Reuben Martock, the ship-owner, who
insures his vessels and sends tbe ™ Bee i
hope of seeing tnem no mo ro, ls aDeac o n bk]nne|y
sort of character, represented by Mr. Davis, in
conjunction with his partner, Rodney, he concocts
and perpetrates more villainy in a couple f .
than would entitle each to I- S’® B ™. in 'kiimer !
hurst Douglas is Captain Lynton, skippei
of the doomld ship, and In spits of various warn- |
ings from the living and the dead, he goes .j -
and ia killed by Mark Culver, a creature of the
owners’, aa he is in the aot of attempting; to send
that worthy and accomplished
Davy Jones’ locker. Douglas is ® S®, 0 .
actor, hut—wbat a parson he would have madel
He has an inflection in his voice which almost
amounts to intonation, and gave _ his orders to
•‘shiver the lee bob-stay,” and ■ shut thei thing
down on the cellar,” in much the same way as
Perry puts out his eloquence in the course or a
Domain declamation. He dies ®aHyl“ t h ®?l e ea( i
just after bursting the hatches open with hifi head
and pulling his stowaway Sweetheart Maggie
(Miss Emma Fischer) up through the aperture.
This performance on the part of* “an whocbes
five minutes later makes one regret that he am
not live his allotted time. He could have beaten
Samson’s best records. *
The humout 1 of the piece finds an able ex-
hibitor in Harry Power, who, by making an
ffitoe 18. o flu un-A.b! ol
making the audience laugh. Hi* chiet perror
mance in the funny line is being chronicallysea-
sick, a humour in which we never indulge with-
out feelings akin to deep despair. That he is not
knocked on the head with a belaying-pin, *8 Pro-
bably due to the fact that there were no belaying
pins on board. He causes another laugh by sit-
ting on a nail, and when advised by a shipmate to
go In the proper tack, squats in response to the
other’s right-hander, and subsequently announces
that if not on the proper tack, be has at least hit
the right nail on the point. Baker, as Mara
Culver (a black sheep, in love with Rose),
is the centrebit and sidelines of villainy. He
is engaged by Martock and Co. to scuttle the ship,
and fol private reasons (his love for Host) deter-
mines upon the murder of the Captain, l le
the vessel hv pulling out the corks which are
usually placed in ships’ cellars Vnd
that purpose, then murders ciptain, and
nearly murders the stowaway girl, Maggie. Bush
ihg on deck, he murders his mate, Dick Way land,
the ship’s carpenter, and rohS him of his share of
thl spoil, fa his anxiety to kill thesepeople.he
omits to notice the long boat sh °ving off from the
side, and when he does discover this fact he has to
take to the water. Dashing his ill-gotten gain to the
deck and discarding his coat, he bounds to the taff-
rail with the agility of an old man kangaroo, and
dives into the briny ocean. He Janas on tne
sohdest kind of fluid. The thud could be heard all
over the house. His motto throughout is that
“ Dead men tell no tales,” and up to this he c b eor "
fully acts. What a terror he would be amongst a
company of novelists or poets of the gay and
! gladsome spring time I After the majority of the
i characters have been attended to by Culver, there
I are not enough left to run the piece successfully,
and that-which at first promised to be humorous
ends in pathos and gaol for the principal criminals.
* * *
The ladies Have parts which do not call
forth the exercise of abilities equalling Mod-
iestra’s but they take their trifling share of work
with agreeable 7 ardour. Maggie Penboyle, who
stows away with the intention of following Cap
tain LyntoVs fate, has the most active part and
to secure this she is compelled to attire
another proof of the superiority ot the trousered
sex. * * *
Why have we left Johnny Hall to the
last ? We suppose because the Hall and the last
are alwavs intimately associated. As Bam eratton,
an aged andhasty-temperedfisherman, with ared-
hlt boiler-plate thirst on him always, and an in-
ordinate love for big words and
Johnny is “ similarly, otherwise, notwithstana
ing ” a necessity in the pieoe.
mm mm
At the Olympic, “ Maritana” is a pleasant
change from “ Carmen.” A .Gipsy-so far as
Sydney is concerned— appears. It is Miss
She sings the music pleasantly Now
and then there’s an occasional bitch when the
note demanded cannot be found ft t Hm mo-
ment, but a timely snort from the trombone
directs public attention from the loss. On the
whole, Miss St. John brings a good deal of
strength to this oddly-assorted company. Mr.
Thorne was the Don Cresar, and his reading of
thft nart can safely lay claim to originality.
*wl ff.“ th» tbV S pam.h
oven when covered with debt and rags,
could be known by their proud hearing, and
haughty composure. Mr. Thorne doesn t think
so. g As Don Caesar he appears anxious to work off
his superabundant animal spirits m a double
shuffle, or a comic song. And he takes liberties
with the music too. For instance, in Let me like
a soldier fall,” where the highest note-as written
is A this eccentric nobleman jumped to the C,
and ended B the second verse on the latter note, in-
stpftd of on the octave teelow. In fact, it tne pri
viletre of falling like a soldier was denied him he
coSedhirnS by on annnoffenam^note
and knocking the wind out of it. «iy e ha a
A anv dav before an indifferent C. Of couise tne
result of this strain was that when the B tlat m the
“ Flower that bloometh —the note that keeps au
audience in a state of , flrst° veifle'
manded a hearing, it was, in the hrst \ eise,
smuggled unceremoniously out of the road, and
was sadly mauled in the second This should be a
warning to tenors to stick to the text, unless nxe
Squires or Beaumont they are sure of their
ground. * * *
The same remarks will apply to the Don
.lose of Mr. Gainor, with the important difference
that the high notes which he introduced, sob
wffleh Vincent Wallace did not, were given with a
fullness and sweetness that gave lifidn
the popular favour. But this cxeellmieo in t
uDDer register was sadly marred by weakness in
tlie lower. Indeed, with all the singers-barring
peculiarity.was nfljoertgj-wme
of their notes were as good as gold, while others
were veritable greenbacks. Mr. Gainor nas a gouu
presence, and strides on and off wi £M determined
air that shows he is bent on mischief and will
stand no nonsense. In his hands the w
the Marchioness, Miss DesmQnd. Between them
rhftv kent the audience iel a state of dangerous
etfervescence which would, possibly, kjw®
the shape of outrage had not the chairs been
happily nailed to the floor.
* *
The Spanish service appears to possess
strong attractions for Mr. Kaintord. When we
last saw him he was a captain in the army oi that
country and ordered men to execution with a oold
rnttincaure that glued us to our seat trembling
lest he should look our way and order hia minions
tn dpwtrov us also. In Mar it an a he was tne
King, and it is only fair to him to say that even by
onmnanies with far greater pretensions than Leon
Cawn s we™ heard the music less ably given.
He has little mannerisms tkat make you laugh,
and can throw into his upper lips and bhel
of his mouth an amount of hard bloodthirstiness
enough to make strangers hurry home and pile
a ll furniture against the front door. Miss
Blair was a plump Lazarillo, whose lower regis .er,
unlike that of the others, was better than her
upper- We believe that the Olympic Company is
to be broken up shortly, as M. Caron has begun to
find,what many have found before him, that opera
doesn’t pay. His experiment with it ends on Satur-
day light We doubt whether anyone except
Lyrter ever made it pay in Austria but then
lriiik at, the people he secured. Why, Esquires,
Fscott and Beaumont were, in their best days,
good enough to pack houses from Cooktown to
Hobart.
*• # »
After a prolonged and joyous picnic in
‘the South Coast district, Harry Lynch and his
companion comp&nolo&’ists have returned to y -
npv for a brief spell before starting to plunder the
towns. Among the trophies of the recent
trmr he exhibits some lines written in a slightly
disguised feminine hand on a lavishly Perfumed (
sheet of gold-edged, superfine note-paper. By the
wav it Haninvariable rule that the more particu-
lar a rhymlster is about his or her paper, the less
careful he becomes as to rhyme and metre, borne
niir beat poems reach us on tne back of milk
ViUih nr District Court summons sheets, and one of
tS sweetest mtle love lyrics we ever printed was
graftTOttsastattS
her jam on to the gifted Harry. , ,
«. Jj ovely hells! soft-touched 1 arfem '
Y ou never heard a sweeter harmony ~i„
N otes so melting as the deftjgay^^-beUB,
C himing and pealing as Lynches oniyauu
H ealth, happiness, prosperity he wltkl /“ e
Yum-yum 1 The Western tour opens with Li'ver
pool for a start. Cheerful place, Liverpool. Ino
death-bell booms fro “ perfumes the
day on the average, and the river pei* ln
mosquito-moving air from sunrise 1; othoJ%
one spell, and from sunset to sunns
Nice place, Liverpool.
** * *
The Lottie Montal Company have taken
possession of the Melbourne Opera
opened the ball with “ Madame L Archiduc.
ne oithefewa m o n g Offenbach’s works wWch
might well have been buried with him. ine
SSf«A: dialogue SS
In tie wild endeavour to find a smtable rhyme
for “ approach,” the adapter, we fan®/
without the book) makes somebody ref ertosom
bodv else as a “ cheeky roach. And many
lar indignities are heaped upon the audience.
Madame Poussard—or Miss Lottie Montal
be it-has the able assistance ofMonsieurat the
head of a capital orchestra The choruses
efficiently rendered and the chorus maidens ap-
pear to have a substantial following of elderly
admirers in‘‘front ” These young ladies, in fact,
are almost as nice as their ° ha linear e
struck us as being mstlovely. When bhakespeare
contemptuously enquired- What sin a name .
thft bard had never neard of Clarice Claremont o
SSv..«P.. There is rapture in juobJ-
as those. Another pleasing feature of this opera is
a ballet, in the secqnd act. Eight dreams ot
beauty, attired in wings, muffs, and other gar
ments. do some pretty steps, un^U eb ‘ s \ e^ 8
Duvalll make their appearance. Then are tne
rnnshers haDDV. One Sister D. has a flower,which,
after a good cieal of consideration, she throws on
the IroS Then the other SMer I) determined
to pick up that blossom, come fhat may accom _
plishes her end by the ingenious d®wee ot stand
irurrinon one toe in order to stoop down, xne
Duvalli pas de deux is undeniably clever and un-
doubtedly nice. #
With regard to the rest of the show, we
sampled above. Handicapped by it, no performer
could achieve a histrionic success, nor does tne
music give vocalism much Bbow. fliss Montal
sines intelligently, soDgs that are not calculated
fo dfsplay her own. or anybody else’s, voice to.the
hoot advantage. Her acting is marred by an ultra-
archness of expression and a d ® sire B^Smir
in the dullest of passages. Mr. Albert Brennir
nr L He introduces a judicious flavouring of
Bosco MSu 4'dhduhe, hy the wap.
Miss Annette Ivanova sings with taste, and
»»*! T'hriV
?ass current anywhere. None of the others can
paid to distinguish themselves, because they
Sonnet the chance Four conspirators might be
of the opera without hurting anyone’s
Key are’not SrTKS .] the
h to make a big success it must be with some
other opera than this.
*# * *
Leading actresses are thin-skinned, and
tnn much to Ridicule penetrates their paint and
natches Ellen Terry has suddenly thrown up ner
part of Oliyia in the ‘‘Vicar ot Wake ft eld ” piece
F Twhinh Trvinc' is playing, and a substitute lias
SBoW’™ XK'pf‘w'K-SaS WI.”
playing at a neighbouring theatre. Similarly,
Sarah Bernhardt has lately been showing a turn
skin One Chambery, a comedian, playing at the
VMWtis in' Paris, has been imitatingher waspish
amount forChambery^beingnow^^the 8 hospital
with broken ribs and a battered was set
tru n «°h n h^ 8 do W e7no h tTnoi r0 Ms find
others guess pretty well who instigated the
attack.
** * #
After a successful season of light comedy
wf -fi-io mi ,n the management makes a startling
Sr- ssssr&ss s s
drshna in our next. # # #
Tbe Melbourne Waxworks has added ‘‘ the
something like ft stone, and a sweet httle b-year-
old sister, who rejoices under an avmrdupo s
weight of 8 stone. We thought the iat lam y
were waxworks until wo pinched the higmai en
mtr and she retired in confusion, then we ais
covered that they all lived, and moved, and had
t hnir hein<r T’here may bo a mistake of a year or
so in the fges of th“e young people-there is no
mistake about their legs. Nature evidently in-
tended the hoy for a Grteoo-Roman wrestler, and
the girls for the front row of the ballet. But we
believe the management has purchased these
troHßiires right out and, intends melting them
down into t g ne “ Coburg tragedy.” Upon mildly
hinting our suspicion to the young ’un, she said,
“ Hit out ” in a voice that seemed like a
of thunder-clap and hallelujah drum. We got out
before the young innocent proceeded to further
violence.
“ T idv Hurdle Riders” is the heading a
on a rail?
A Redfern gentleman was recently re-
qUeB dK d h «t y ter!” “Yei that m w t.ft"he remarked,
dubiously, “but, by Jingo, when a man treads on
a tack, he wants the old edition.
Mr. A. T. Holton, member for Murrum-
whose views on the Land Act are well
known, in a letter to one of the local papers, ac^
cuses somebody of a gross bre^ t °jJ t T ? n^
taiiily do this, and at the same time should see 1 hat
some of Mr Bolton’s political promises arefui-
mied. Particularly those referring to a lepeal oi
the Land Act.
John M'Guiness, deceased, vagrant, was
sw'i-SHSzs
and the remainder on doorsteps, a rein
fact is noted concerning this departed roadster,
vfc, that during nis leisure'moment
many) he was continually Hrmht now
residences he was apostrophising.
About the best thing you oan take is
Wolfe’s i-chnapps. ...
Emerson says:-“ A thing to I bei simple* is
for it to be beautiful.” And lots °f People 8 y
thing of beauty is a joy for ever. Why not when
furnishing get such china, glass, and tarthenware,
that can by its beauty bring to us joy, tor we o n
never get too much of it. Bray Bros., auu
George-street, are the joy-selleis.
WOLFE’S Schnapps. Only those who never
used the genuine article aro imposed upon.
Oriental Gold.
Great Sacrifice!
immense Reduction!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
>EG to draw attention to the REDUCED
g PRICES of their
fait Misty!
li 0 0
15 0 0
£4 10
£5 0
£2 15
£4 15
observe price list below.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriemta Gold Alberts, 108, 15s«
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best Amerioan Plate, 208
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 0d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Eaoed
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ {same as above,)
imf These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses ..
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balanoe ..
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers *
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses..
Ditto ditto, compensation balance..
A written warrantry for three years’ accurals
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade ” " 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fuH jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket i£B 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
la most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with oountry prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each. , , ~
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Bolitalrs
' ‘ and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets. Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 69 each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, is,
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, and 5s 6d eac
Yery best American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, la 6d, 3s, 3s 63, 3s,
8S 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 5s 6d, Ba, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, Bb, 8s
6d, 9s, 98 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE,
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must he sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifu 1
gems at less than cost price.
Note thb Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Snorge Slresi,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The He baud says that a small boy, giving
the name of Barthew, was found by the police
wandering about the city the other night. He was
taken to the lock-up, and when brought before
the Bench in the morning told a moving and sen-
sational story about having run away from a
wicked aunt. The Herald states that a benevo-
lent policeman adopted him on tho spot—probably,
we suppose, with the view of training him up to
be a judge. However, the aunt turned up a day
or two after in a state of mental confusion and
tears. The boy confessed that he had made up the
whole story, and that there was no gleam of truth
in it from beginning to end. His aunt then led
him away, much to the disgust of his adopted
father, the constable.
The President of the Wesleyan Con-
ference, at one of the sittings last week in Sydney,
complained that a large number of men conse-
crated to the sacred office of pastor went away in
the course of each year into wordly employments.
The theme suggested is a high one. Let us rub a
coal on our lips instead of blasting at the bed-rock
of prose—
In this maelstrom of change it is hard to stay con-
stant to any one thing for a long length of
time,
There’s sure to come something—a right thing or
wrong thing, a good thing or bad thing, a
virtue or crime—
To inveigle us into a renunciation of oourses
mapped out, or to drive us to do
To the top the achievements that once we derided
as things far beneath us from our point of
view.
We have sympathy keen for the reverend fathers,
who year after year lay the surplice aside,
And vacate the high pulpit, and shut up the
prayer-book, and give the last kiss to the
heavenly bride;
And expanding their mouths to be ready for
chances to gobble as much of the earth as they
can,
Give the heel to the chancel, and come out among
us to stride through our streets with the
strides of a man.
Ha, the latest I Your hand, ex-annointed! Well,
yes, to the world and the flesh and the Devi),
we think;
After all, it’s small diff’rence. They’ll just have
their cussed old way out. Come, stride now.
Here’s Foley’s—a drink!
m * *
We have been at only one inquest] in our
life. It came off while we were staying at an
hotel in Castiereagh-street. Sometimes, in de-
fault of rounding up other jurymen, the police
used to make a swoop upon this hotel and raise a
scratch jury there. At the time we speak of there
was a merchant captain, with a face like a rick on
fire, staying there. He was implicated, in some
fashion we could never understand, in the Ditbs-
Shepherd divorce case. However, he looked for-
ward to living in luxury on the strength of this
case for the rest of his natural life. This gentle-
man then we, by common consent, made foreman.
The person to be inquested had fallen off a
steeple, and had got shut up like a telescope.
Nevertheless the examination of witnesses
lasted three dull, dreary, drowsy hours.
Long before it had concluded, our foreman, the
gallant captain, had fallen into a deep, calm
slumber, and, of course, had forgotten all about
the inquest. After the witnesies were done with
the Coroner—who was shortsighted, and didn’t
notice that our foreman lay with hi 3 head on his
arms, whioh were folded on the table in front of
him—told us to consult with our foreman and tell
him what conclusion we arrived at. We whispered
for awhile, and then one unhallowed villian of the
party slapped the captain suddenly on the back,
and called into his ear, “ The coroner wants to
know what you’U have.” “ Gin and Bitters,” said
the foreman, rising up with a start. Thia is a true
bill. The inquest was known as the Gin and
Bitters Inquest for long afterwards.
■ 8 ■
It is broadly stated at the Union Club that
young Gussy Loftus is in a deuce of a state of
mind over the forthcoming introduction of his
Chief Commissioner to the Greatest Personage in
the Realm and the Princess. “ What do you think
of it?” he enquired, showing tha photograph to
Lord Charles Baresford. “Phew!” whistled his
Lordship, “I know what will come of this.”
“ What ?” cried Loftus, much alarmed. “ I’ll tell
you. You or some other equally sane person will
hustle him forward, when his Royal Highness,
after turning hurriedly to the Prinoess, will say—
‘ Gentlemen,—This proceeding may be your idea of
a capital colonial joke, but (sternly) I unite with
the Princess in saying that it is going too far (very
sternly), very much too far.’ Then,” continued
Lord Charles, “they'll pass in, and after this Africa
—Central Africa—will not contain an arid desert
that will be half so dreary and deserted as your
unfortunate Court will be during the Exhibition.”
“THAT’LL FETCH ’EM.”
“Isn’t there anyway out of it, Charley?” asked
Gussy, despiaringly—“ think.” “ Only one,” was
the prompt reply; “get him to feed three times
a day in your annexe, and advertise it in the
dailies. That’ll fetch ’em.” “Thank you,”
moaned young G., as he sank down on the steps of
the Raleigh; “you are, indeed, a comforter.”
They parted there; but, in the small hours of that
and subsequent mornings, a figure paraded
Bruton-street until long after ttie milk had
arrived, swaying itself from side to side, para-
lytically, and crying in an undertone—“lf he’d
only do it I—oh, if he’d only, only do it.”
a
Here is an account of what Lord Dunraven
does:—“ One night he will appear in the House and
deliver an incisive, eloquent speech on some ques-
tion of high policy; on the next he sets off for
some remote country, the more inaccessible in
approach, and the more uncomfortable as a resi-
dence, the more attractive.” This is not a bit
like our members. If one of tbeae happened to
deliver “an incisive, eloquent speech on some
question of high policy a very remote, and even
frigid contingency—a derrick wouldn’t hoist him
out of the smoking-room for a week afterwards,
until he had been thoroughly lubricated with
congratulatory adulation, and kept half the
House whole drunk during his stay in the
Legislative fumoir. Flattery has an extraor-
dinary effect upon members—especially junior
ones. Why, years ago, we have seen a few
commendatory words from Sir Henry influence a
member (he is in the present Ministry) to such sn
extent that he saw nothing but blue dogs and
Catherine wheels for ten days afterwards; and
when led in, subsequently, to vote, ho was very
indignant with some one for having painted the
Speaker a bright sea-green. A f ewnights later he en-
countered Sir Henry (then a most unapproachable
and haughty Premier) and a number of members
in a club. “ Said I was the coming man, Sir (hlc)
Henry, didn’t yer ?’’ hiccupped the flattered one.
“Ye?, and always will be,” was the severe, but
necessary reply. That put the hon. gentleman
right back on to sarsaparilla at one jump.
♦ * *
There is something to comfort us in all
our troubles—Servia is disbanding its army, and
Greece has recalled its fleet! Bloodshed—fierce
and furious bloedshed-are, therefore, afar off
Had Greece, for instance, continued defying the
Great Powers and let loose its fleet, what might
have become of Pmchgut and all the old relics we
cherish so here ? Why, the Prince George and
the Haideo could slip in when the Nelson was
away giving fetes at Auckland, and, after having
bombarded Harry M’Quade (whose desperate re-
sistance at Potts Point would be a matter of
history), take possession of the Wolverene, and
send three men and a hoy in the dingy to capture
that desperate stronghold, Fort Macquarie. After
that, nothing hut a parley with the Mayor on No.
2 j etty would scare ’em. [We expect this will gain
John Young a second year. What it will do for
No. 2 jetty we can’t say; but we hope to goodness
it will do something.— Ed. B.]
* * *
This is an East Maitland item“ So ye’ve
come back, Mister Frank,” said the farm servant-
girl, as the son and heir of the cow-run made his
first appearance in the dairy, after his recent trip.
“ Ye 3,” he said, with a ddgagi air, and a slide nearer
the milk-maid, “ I’m back again. Glad to see me,
Susan-J&ne ? ” with another slide. “ Ye-es, Mister
Frank. Been to Sydney, sir ? ” “I have keen,” he
said, oracularly, “to Sydney, Pyrmont, Randwick,
and Botany. Also to Woolloomoolo,” he added
“ several times.” “ Lor I sir, how you have
travelled 1” cried the wondering Audrey, who was
“just out,” with an excellent character from the
minister of her parish. “Yes,” he said; “but
come; let's have a kiss after all this exertion.”
But as he slid for the third time she drew sharply
back, and cried; “ No, Mister Prank, I won't; and
what’s more, you needn’t try to come any,of your
globe trotting games here. So I tell you 1 ”
* *
The London Guardian objects to “ the
transfer of Bishop Moorhouse on the ground that
colonial bishops should devote their lives to
colonial service.” Now, mark. Melbourne wire:
—“ The police are alarmed at the enormous in-
crease of crime in Victoria, which they admit
themselves totally unable to cope with.”
To the Editor op The Guardian.
Avaunt I we do not want them here,
Your theologic ganders;
For oft we see a pulpit peer
Become a pulpit pander 1
Their “ comfortable doctrines,” sir,
Are scouted by the masses;
They’re “ framed ” so that my lord may “ purr ”
Them to the “ upper classes.”
» * *
The friends of a Newcastle clergyman are
about to present him with a testimonial, prior to
his leaving the district. The following advertise-
ment appears concerning the matter in the New.
castle Her Al,d of 4th inst.:—“Funerals.—Priendi
of the Rev. 0. F. Withey, desirous of marking
their appreciation of his ministrations at St_
Peter’s, Hamilton, and elsewhere, are requested to
attend the meeting to be held in St. Peter’
Schoolroom, Hamilton, This (Thursday) Evening
at 7 30.” Why the peculiar and attractive head*
line of “ Funerals ” should be used in this case
we don’t see Poor W—— is given a very broad
hint that he is expected to die before the matter
progresses very much further. The love which
he bears his flock will ensure his compliance with
their wishes in this regard.
* * m
CELA YIENDRA.
“A paragraph in the Morning Chronicle
(Lon.) states that Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P. f or
Canterbury, is about to be knighted.”-Cable.'
At the commencement of the current
year a hospital on the South Coast had only £3 to
its credit. We wonder whether the following—
which we quote from their report—had anything
to do with it ?—“ln the month of September last,
the Rev. Joshua Snavelall resigned, who had acted
as Hon. Secretary. On that occasion, your com-
mittee, etc., presented Mr. Snavelall with an
address expressive of their appreciation of his
services, accompanied with a puise containing 80
sovereigns.” This seems to us an outrageous deal
of sack to such a poor halfpennyworth of balance.
Doubtless, however, the money wag “suitably
bestowed.” And, moreover, we are certain the
rev. gentleman—but let us crown him in *'B and
8”:-
You had two minds, we know, old bird,
To scoot and never take a “ red,”
For when you the first whisper heard,
You sadly smiled and shook your head.
You packed your trunk the day before-
stood on the lid and roped it down;
“At just the first flush of Aurore,”
You said, “I’ll steal from out the town. ’
Oh, it had been a busy day,
Hard on a pastor’s holy shoon,
And 10, behold I to your dismay,
You never ope’d your eyes till noonl
You had to go, Distracted Saint!
Oh, scissors I quite a grand affair!
With currant-cake the room was fain!,
And liquid logwood charged the air.
A few short words-a chink, a clutch;
A feeble smile, and you were heard
To say you thanked them very much,
But were too moved to say a word!
Quite soon the Mayor this wire he got:
“ I’m. grieved—(we’re dust)—l must report,
On counting up the little lot,
I find the sum two sovereigns short.”
■ • •
We clip this on a very hot day from the
commercial article of the Gentle Ellis:— “ln
wines there is a fair inquiry for champagne and
the leading brands, such as Pomeroy’s (sic), Ro-
deret’s (sic), and Krug’s are being sold (sic) at full
market rates.” Which indeed rather prepares us to
hear that “sales of second brands, such as Bisquit,
Duboche (sic), and Co., are ’’—and so on. And now
for a jingle, which shall jangle against the heart of
no man:—
In connection with the above we are most happy
to testify that in a par. which precedes the hilarious
items we have quoted. “ Loundea's rum ” is
spelied with exceeding correctness.
* - *
The Lybe is publishing, daily, instalments
of a story called “ The Kose and the Key,” and in
the exercise of a peculiar discretion the editor
withholds the name of the author from the public
In the absence of Alfred, who has been novel
selector for the News from time immemorial,
somebody else, pcssibly Chris, or Davis, dons the
discriminative toga, and it is, doubtless, to that
gentleman of property (“ key next door ”) to
whom we are indebted for the literary fireworks
wbich have of late been fizzing and flashing the
weird tenor of their way in the paper. It didn’t
take Alfred long to choose a novel. He would
merely step into Kirby’s, and review the long
lines of “ yellow backs,” taking careful cognizance
of the pictures, and appearing much struck with
the blue coals and red pants of the heroes of the
THE BALLAD OF LITTLE BARTHEW.
He was a wicked little boy,
His name it was Barthew,
His good old aunt he would annoy
By chewing gum and glue.
She tired of using of her hand
Upon his little spine—
And so she took a paling, and
The paling it was pine,
And on her knees a form was crossed
With yells nor faint nor few—
That night a little boy was los<,
His name it was Barthew.
Next morn a child of tender years
Was brought to Mister Call,
P.M., and from his eyes the tears
Did piteously fall.
Then said the kindly magistrate,
“ Come now, my little man,
Say why you ran away ? Just state
Now why away you rani”
“ Please, sir, I has a wicked aunt,
She lives outside the town,
She larrups me until she can’t
Stand up—nor me sit down.
“ She keeps me in a dungeon, too,
A-chained up to a ring,
Just like the Spanish pirit crew
Kept Ralph the Rover King.”
A constable spoke up full warm,
His voice with feeling shook,
As to his ample uniform,
This friendless boy be took—
“ Come home with me, my little man,”
He said: there was a pause;
Then through the crowded courthouse ran
A murmur of applause.
The constable he loved that boy
As much as any son,
For three whole days—then all his joy
Was broken up and done.
For then the aunt came to the court—
A gentle, good old dame,
Who would not hurt a fly in sport—
Her nephew for to claim.
And when this little bad Barthew
Began to pipe a tear
She dried her eyes and firmly dre ;v
Him homeward by the ear.
The moral of this ballad—well,
The moral is not new 1
Is that a boy should never tell
The thing that is not true.
For if he does he will, you’ll see,
In fear of God grow less,
And when he is a man will ba
P’raps on the daily Press.
T O HENNIKER.
So you’be to be knighted I
Of course you’re delighted,
Old chap;
But here when a “ rad.,” sir,
You'd sworn—yes, you had, sir—
You’d not give, bedad, sir,
For knighthood—(that’s bad, sir)-
A rap I
Well, we've got your measure,
You bright, truthful treasure I
And bet
The infallible Devil
Will find you your level,
S : r, yet.
It seems now are knighted
All numbskulls benighted
By rote I
But if knighted you are
They’ll knight—these words true arel
A goat.
(Cablegram since contradicted.)
OUR EXPERIENCE.
We know the feeling—“ Going round ”
Those rhythmic bits collecting!
You taste. “My word I that rum is sound”—
Then gin you are dissecting 1
“ Humph I Fine dark brandy— 1 thirty-nine!’"
You stow that in your locker;
To top up now with absinthe fine
According is to Cocker.
You wrote the copy, slip by slip,
With eyes fixed on the ceiling;
Before he’s time to get a grip,
Behold the comp, is reeling.
The reader-boy, who used to be
Meek as a trav’iling giant.
A pause, sirs, makes at number three,
Assumes an air defiant!
Down comes the proof—much as we quste,
“ What’s date—lesh shee—and what day ?
No mattersh.” Now we’d have you note
’Twas a terrific hot day!!
Yet when such pare, we erst did write—
The public’s such a “skiter
They always swore the pars, were tight,
Or else, egad, the writer!


" ~T ove is. Alfred always had a little list of
miiitary * ent works could not be included
author .. without payment, but if he really
nook, WHOM picture iadat-
had //him he would get over the difficulty either
tr acting the sub-title, if the book had one, or
a boldly into the matter, and adorning
Columns ef the Evening News with aoor-
e a „ nn v of the following announcement
r 6» On Satday next there will be perduced in this
jomel as follows.
J ern “ vanity Fair,
‘‘by a new biter,”
an d thus come off triumphant. It was in Alfred’s
Some Current Topics.
A Base Ball Association has been formed in
Sydney. Makers of false teeth, wooden legs, glass
eyes, and wax noses, anticipate a rush of business.
Ondit that Rowell, the long dis-
tance pedestrian, is coming to Aus-
tralia.
Mr. Fosberry reports intemperance greatly on the
increase. And yet the grievance remains that re-
spectable temperance people are unable to obtain the
necessities of life on a Sunday,
Repose. —From an ideal
sketch by Lady Caringion.
t\ie OpP o9^?^
~ggSSi3B&S&*r<
The laughable farce of presenting the Soudan medals will be perform:
nest Saturday. To awaken public interest, Lofd Carington has hoc:
invited to present the coppers.
‘V
The'Telegraph’s “Constant Reader" suggests that
swimming be taught in the public schools by a professor
especially engaged. First class in swimming, stand up 1
Taxation l!
Mr. Douglas, the Premier of Tasmania, has boldly de-
clared himself in favour of a, republic in the Southern
seas. With a flag and a small island, Mr. Douglas thinks
he could start business.
(The above sketch is to some oxtent allegorical.)
teeming brain that the idea originated of publish-
ing Charles Reade’s “ Hard Cash,” in the News,
and calling it simply by the sub-title, “ A Matter
of Pact Story.” At a later date (one mail delivery
day) this matter was seriously disoussed by Alf.
and the old gentleman, after which interview
Alfred wore a dejected aspect, and for several
Months the Family Herald suffered severely.
In the present decade, while Chris., Frank, Davis,
or whoever it is, lacks the versatility of Alfred, he
appears to be quite his equal in the matter
°f caution. Thus we see that while recently
Publishing a story from the London Journal
a nd allowing Mrs. E. D. E. N. (1) Southworth all
tile glories of acknowledged authorship* he con-
ceals, for reasons that are politic, the name of the
author of “The Rose and the Key,” a work as
different, hy the way, from the efforts of Mrs'
E. D. E. N. as light is from shadow. In a word,
then, “ The Rose and the Key ” is by one J. Sheri-
dan Lefanu, and was first published 30 years or
more ago in All The Year Round. Mr. Lefanu
is, now, in the position—as Alfred would have it—
of “a riter that is ded,” otherwise the glory of
appearing in the Evening News would doubtless
more than compensate him for the withholding of
his name from his novel, and a kind of languor on
part of the proprietary In the matter of ladling
out the spondulix.
In order to gain an insight to the condi-
tions of after life, one cannot do better than study
obituary verses. From a recent number of the
Aon we glean the following particulars about a
little boy who fell into the Yarra—
“ He is straying, he is praying,
Where diviner breezes blow;
He is Binging to the ringiDg
Of the angel choirs, I know.”
That rhyme sets us right upon a very important
point. We refer to the celestial musical arrange-
ments. Cherubia and seraphia have been igno-
rantly depicted as touching the harp gently or
blowing down a cornet with no keys to it. Im-
plicitly believing in the misleading pictures, we
have hitherto devoted all our spare moments to
practising those two instruments and annoying
the neighbours. But now we know that angel
choirs merely ring (when they’re not singing) we
shall trouble no more about the harp and eornet.
They can be had cheap. As regards ringing—well,
we shall require no tuition. In our youth we
went round with muffins.
* * *
We don’t know what all the reporters,
eto., are about, who are told off to “ fox-up ” the
Governor. They never seem to assert them-
selves, except at those times the pies and wine are
handed round, or they are nudged by an aide-de-
camp to chip in with—“ His Lordship then re-
marked.” And it is extraordinary, too, how
their copy boils away in the setting. Well, now
we’re going to tell you something about His Ex-
cellency that has not previously appeared in
print, and we therefore trust thatsuch of our con-
temporaries as honour us by re-producing the
article will courteously credit us with the same
This will let up on the daylight robber who used
5 ) crib four whole columns of our best jokes and
net the matter up as “ Original and Selected.”
Here goes, then. After their Excellencies had
scuttled through the wards of the Sydney Hospital
(they split the job, wisely, in two), accompanied by
lkey Josephson, and attended by the suite, the re-
porters, and about 47 doctors, arrived in
due course downstairs, lkey cried —“ Please
your Excellency, the Book!” Lord Carington
hastily signed this ledger, and had already made a
start for the turn-out, when lkey was after him
like a flash. “Hi, your Excellency, you haven’t
said what you think of the place.” “Stupid o£
me, indeed,” remarked his Lordship, taking a not®
case from his pocket and handing lkey an oblong
slip—“ Please paste that in the—er—volume. They
are Lmuch moved] sentiments which come from
my heart.” Then jumping in the barouche, he
bade his postilions drive, in a voice of thunder
“To the Morgue!” Meanwhile Mr. Josephson
(hon. secretary) sank down in the president’s chair,
and pulling out his spectacles, proceeded to read
aloud the following document:—“This institution
which I have just inspected, presents many admir-
able and attractive features, and in honour of my
visit I have much pleasure in recommending a
half-holiday for the cleanly and industrious in-
mates.- Carinqton ” He ha<t giyen the Parra-
mfl.tt.fl. Orphan School “ sentiments by mistake.
l< Alter much pleading and wrestling, two
sin-sick souls cried for mercy.” Thus the last
War Cry. We have always suDg- for Mercy I” at
the first twinge of the timbrels; but we can’t re-
member that we were ever accorded any. We
rather think we were told to “Shove, afore we
wos made to.”


SOCIAL
On Monday last at St. Patrick’s Churoh,
Goulburn, tbe mystic band which binds together
two residents of that city was tied by the Rev.
Father Carroll, the bride being Mies Marian
Josephine Hanley, and the groom Mr. Francis
Manning. Honeymoon in one of the delightful
retreats on the shores of “ our beautiful harbour.
■ * *
And yet more musical talent emanating
from Newcastle I Mr. George CastledeD has pub-
lished a waltz, whiGh he calls the “ Carington
Waltz.” It is a pleasant composition without,
however, being guilty of over-much originality.
The waltz is well within the scope of an ordinary
pianist, and should find a ready sale.
* * *
A well-attended meeting was held on the
3rd of February, in the Melbourne Town Hall for
the purpose of choosing some souvenir to be pre-
sented to Mrs. Moorhouse prior to her ceparture
for England. Lady Stawell took the chair, and
conducted the affair in her pleasant and efficient
manner. The gift will probably take the form of
a service of plate- Circulars will he forwarded to
every town in the diocese. About 100 ladles were
present, and several donations were received by
the secretary, Mrs. C. 8. Terry. Another meeting
on the subject will be held in a fortnight's time.
@ ■ ®
The engagement between the son of the
present Mayor of Melbourne, who is a member of
the leading firm of solicitors in Melbourne, to the
youngest and well-endowed daughter of a late
squatter in the western district is just announced.
♦ * *
Lord Henry Scott, brother to Lord Charles
Scott, who married Miss Ryan, of Mount Macedon
(Yictoria), has just been created a peer by Lord
Salisbury, under the title of Baron Montagu.
* * *
The ball that was given at the Northern
Club (New Zealand) to the officers of H.M.S.
Nelson was a most brilliant affair, and passed off
very succe 83f ully. The return dance on boat d the
Nelson was equally enjoyable. There Is some-
thing peculiarly pleasant about a dance on a
vessel, especially in such charming weather as has
prevailed theie during the last fortnight, and yet
the afternoon’s pleasure was net altogether un-
alloyed. To tne inexpressible horror of some of
the haughty dames on board, it was discovered
that amongst the gay ycung couples whirling in
the mazy waltz were two young ladies who
principally spend their time in dispensing cooling
drinks to those who require them; in short, two
barmaids bad somehow or other got into the
oharmed circle. “Tnere Is something so repul-
sive about these creatures (i e., barmaids) that it
makes one shiver to come into oontacc with
them.” Such was the tenor of a remark made by
a young lady (?) whose father, by the bye, in years
gone by sold drinks himself in a grog shanty.
* * •
The wedding of Miss N. Stephen, of Cintra
(N.B. W.), daughter of the late Mr. C. Stephen, and
grand-daughter of Sir Alfred Stephen, with Mr.
T. Riddle, of Melbourne, is announced to take
place early this month.
• * *
An engagement is on the tapis between
Miss Keogh, daughter of the late Mr. D. P. Keogh,
and grand-daughter of Mr. Thomas Monaghan, of
St. Kilda, and Mr. Willie Tobin, second son of Mr.
Andrew Tobin, the well-known squatter.
* * *
The dosing social event at Poona was the
marriage at Kirkee Church of Miss Aileen Ethel
Portman, younger daughter of Major A. Berkeley
Portman, Superintendent of Police, G.I.P. Rail-
way, and Mr William Yorke Foster, K.H. A , the
eldest son of Bir William Foster, Bart, of darding-
ham, Norfolk. The churon was very full and the
ornate uniforms of the officers and elegant light
costumes of the ladles made the spectacle a very
brilliant one. The bride, who was given away by
her father, wore a gown of ivory satin, embel-
lished with pearl embroidery, lace, and orange
blossoms, and a IODg tulle veil fastened to her
wreath by a diamond spray, the gift of Mrs. Henry
Portman, her grandmother. She was attended by
the Misses Portman, Souter, Peile, Stewart, and
Green, who all wore cream lace and satin, with
wreaths of white daisies, and had pretty mar-
guerite brooches and bouquets presented to them
by the bridegroom. There is a hearty good will
about a popular wedding in Indian society un-
known elsewhere, and tho bride not only arrived
at the churoh in a carriage drawn by six grey
horses belonging to the bridegroom’s battery, but
the happy pair drove in it to Gunesbkbind House
after the service, three sergeants acting as postil-
lions. His Excellency Lord Reay lent tho carriage
with four bay horses, which conveyed the five
bridesmaids. _______
SOCIAL FIXTURB.
Lady Carington’s Reception, Wednesday .17.
Sydnev Llodertafel Concert, Exhibition
•Building March 9.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
On Wednesday night, at Foley’s gymna-
sium, George-str«et, Sydney, two well-known ama-
teurs met for a four-rounds battle under Marquis
of Queensberry rules with full gloves. Foley
attended to his pupil, the champion amateur,
whose opponent was seconded by Jackson. Mr.
John Thompson acted as referee and time-keeper,
but his office was a sinecure in the former capa-
city. Foley’s pupil led from the jump, and at the
conclusion of the second round proved his
superiority by landing his antagonist when he
felt inclined. Jackson’s man is game enough, but
wants more tutoring before he can face the two-
handed amateur. The rounds ended each time
in favour of the lighter man, who could
at the third round have made a finish. Dooley
and a friend had a brief turn-up in favour
of tbe former, and Foley and Jack Thompson
wound up the show. A good house witnessed the
battles. On Saturday night the draw was the £5O
match between Connors and Hassan, It was a
very soft thing for the white man. who threw
Hassan, the Indian, very easily, and followed this
victory up by throwing a iriendof the vanquished
darkey tor a £lO to £5 wager just inside 60seo.
These victories bring Connors’ unbeaten record to
106. Thematoli is not worth criticising. Ilassan is re-
puted to have a record of 700 wins. He must have
made that list of victories wrest ling children, as in
the match under notice he had not. a 500 to 1 show.
A counle of lively spars preceded the “great
event.”
* * *
Connors is willing to accommodate Miller
or Dinnie any style, any time, any amount. This
is a chance which the big wrestlers ought to jump
at.
* u *
Now that Evans, Jones, Garrett, and
Bonnor are oertain starters for the English tour,
we do not think the old colony may feel at all con-
cerned as to the manner in which it will be repre-
sented in the flftb English Eleven. Evans has
over been the hero of “ the gods” in the colonies,
and we doubt not that his splendid all-round play
will take the English crowd by storm. Easy-
going fellow as he is, he h»s hitherto taken his
gruel quietly when invariably sent in late in the
innings, but in the tour to come we would advise
him to beeume the “ Dick Deadeye” of the crowd.
Should he follow our an vising he may be sent in
nearer first than last, and the new experience will
give him a chance of running no a good average
if h- Lu.j ,1 .a biqj. Evans is a magnificent rough
rider, and no mean pigeon shot, and maybe he
may give the Britishers a little of his quality in
other fields than the bat and ball.
* * *
Davis played a grand innings of 103
against the Carltons on Saturday. Toe perform-
ance was an exceptionally good one, considering
the state of the turf, and that every run had to be
run out. Arthur Hiddleston also made himself
obnoxious to the Carltons by totting up 37 in a
style peculiarly his own. Although only on this
occasion a pick-up for the first eleven, he should
never be far away from the first lot. Mcßoberts,
a new addition to the Carltons, fielded remarkably
well.
* * *
Wily old “Pendragon ” of the Referee is
paving his way for the advent of Beach on the
Thames. Says “Pen.”:—“lf Beach should beat
Matterson, who is described as a fine young fellow,
muscular, symmetrical, and nine or ten years
Beach’s junior, and should he do the work easily
and well, we may begin to imagine that Hanlan
was beaten on bis merits, and that Beach is really
the wonder his performances, as taken at their
public value, make him. But if Matterson beats
Beach—why, then, with every such development,
provided it is as it looks, our chance of once again
obtaining premier position becomes by degrees
little less than microscopical. But can such de-
velopments be real? I ask this because, despite
the nonsense occasionally written about Ke ley,
Chambers, and Renforth, and what they would do
if at their best now, we have seen, at least, two
men on the London river who would simply have
lost them, and are we to believe that as England
goes one way America and Australia go another,
and that the foreign and colonial develop-
ments we have seen here have been ‘in another
place ’ as tar outstripped, and as meritori-
ously, as they outstripped our own developments? ’
However, “ Pen*” will soon have an opportunity
of judging of what stuff Beach is made, as the
champion, in company with his fidus Achates, Mr.
Deeble, and Peter Kemp, the sculler, if all goes
well, will start for England direct in the last week
in March, when, if fit and well, Beach will meet
all oomers over the historic Putney and Mortlake
course. Young Matterson is also bound for the
old country, and will reach there before the cham-
pion, but his race with Beach will spoil any “ soft
things,” and it remains to be seen if he can beat
the best England can produoe. In Kemp, Beach
will have a first-rate mate, and Peter may surprise
the Englishmen a few before his foot again
punishes his native heather. Beach and Kemp are
both middle-aged, matured men, and more likely
to stand the climatic changes than a youngster
like Matterson.
* * *
Malone and O’Brien are to meet on the
Agricultural Society’s Ground, Moore Park, over
three distances—half-mile, 1000 yards, and three-
quarter mile—on Saturday, 20:h February. A nice
programme of sports has been thrown in to act as
side-dishes to this piece de resistance ; so that, with
fine weather, there should be a good crowd in
attendance.
* * *
We were undecided whether to put the
following clipping under sporting or religious
items, so, as usual with us, when undecided in
these matter, we spun a coin—“tail: spotting;
head: religious;” but as we happened to toss a
“ tail gray,” which the religious man by some
means left on our desk, it is not our fault that it
goe3 to the snorting man for a certainty:—“ A
gang of magsmen and convicted thieves, who re-
cently visited Auckland from Sydney, have lately
been doing Wellington. It appears Detective
Toohey warned them they would have to quit
Auckland at once, and he so worked upon their
fears that they at once took ship in the s.s. Oreti,
at Onehunga, for Wanganui, booking themselves
as a company of performing athletes. Their
paraphernalia was most elaborate, and included
tents and poles, roulette table, trick matchboxes,
and other articles required for carrying on syste-
matic swindling on racecourses. Nemesis,
in the person of the police, followed the un-
hallowed party from Auckland, and at Foxton
they were warned to desist from playing by Con-
stable M’Naulty, who was succe. 2 sful in moving
them on to Wellington, where they arrived on
Saturday morning last. They lost no time in town,
but proceeded straight to the Island Bay race-
course, where they made about £5O at the * three-
card trick ’ before the police were on the ground.
From one man they won £6 in as many minutes,
and this innocent it was who laid the detectives on
to the gang, the members of which, disliking the
presence of their natural enemies—the police,—
made for town after the first race. They were
tracked to a hotel in the city, the proprietor of
which was made acquainted with the character of
hia guests, who were warned they would be locked
up under the Vagrant Act if they did not engage
in honest pursuits or clear out. One of the party
took the hint and yesterday left for Wairarapa,
and the remainder intimated their intention of
proceeding either South or to the West Coast of
the Middle Island by the first steamer ” The New
Zealand police are on the look-out for a second
instalment of these enterpr sing worthies, who
have threatened Maoriland with invasion.
* * *
A gentleman named Shepherd, employed
asa wall-polisher in tho Mount Murohisoo, had a
slight difference of opinion with Ah Chow, a
Chinese fruit hawker. Mr. Shepherd upset Ah
Chow’s basket, and the latter gentleman promptly
upset him. They then adjourned to the back and
Mr. Shepherd called a few of the boys to watch
him having some fun with Ah Chow. He had it.
The meek-eyed Mongol had been mates on the
Turon with a Tasmanian native and wiled away
the long summer evenings in learning the use of
his “ dukes.” When Mr. Shepherd had fun enough,
the boys took him to the doctor’s in a dray, and
John went on the even tenor of his way trading
off his “ oabbagee, lettucee, and pashinip ” for the
coin of the cheerful housekeeper. Poor Shepherd
looked awfully sheepish after his lambing. Ewe
know.
» » *
A boy named Todd, 15 years old, was
killed at Otaki, N.Z., recently in a curious manner.
He got drunk and lay down in an hotel yard to
Bleep. It was his last one, for a cart coming into the
yard ran over him, and crushed out his young life
instantaneously. This boy was a jockey and had
been engaged to ride in a race on the following
day, whereby hangs a moral reflection. Suppose
ing he had not been killed, what would the state
of his nerves have been in tho race on the morrow,
and can it bo possible that interested parties could
have had anything to do with the boozing up of
the unhappy lad ? We have heard of such things,
but never, of course, in good, moral N.S.W.
* * *
Hitherto yachting in Port Jackson has
had but ill support from the representatives of
Royalty, and it was quite refreshing to see -bord
Carington don his flannels on Saturday last, jump
aboard the Magic, and have a real good time with
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron at their Chow-
der picnic. But Carington is nothing if not versa-
tile in the matter of attending sports and enter-
tainments, and until we see H.E. the owner of a
30-ton clipper, we shall feel anything but sanguine
that Port Jackson has at last imported a yaonting
Governor. Yachting in the bigger classes is stag-
nant, although it merely requires a fillip from a
man like Carington to set it going like a bouse
afire. But the recent purchase of yearlings looks
as if the fiood is to suffer to the gain of the field.
* * •
When poor Huht got the leg-up on Patch-
work for the Geeloug Steeplechase, he little
thought that he would be inquested and forwarded
to Melbourne In a coffin within six hours. The
coroner seems to be the only smart official in Gee-
long. The telegraph arrangements from the
course were something execrable. But perhaps
the telegraph operator doesn’t get as much prac-
tice as the coroner.
* * *■
The fatal accident to Huht has pointed
morals and adorned tales to the entire satisfaction
of the Geelong elect. The races there have never
received very fervid support from the locals.
Some 5 per cent of the population, perhaps, ven-
tured to express regret for the poor lellow’s un-
timely fate Toe rest of the good people sniggei e 1
with holy sat sfaction over a catastrophe in whicn
—as one long coated gentleman put it—“ the hand
of God was distinctly visible.”
• * * -
Sene of the Wellington (N.Z.) masher
party have made an effort to expel the plebeian
element from tbe local rowing club l»y passing a
rule barring the labouring class of members from
competing with them. The horny-handed, how-
ever, were too numerous, and the rule was not
carried. The dudes will now have to form a new
club, to which only bank clerks and gentlemen
shall be admitted.
V *
Who is to captain the Australians ? For
the success of the tour it should he hoped not a
member of the last Eleven, who made themselves
so obnoxious to Lillywhito s team. Should such a
one be chosen, there will be trouble in store with
the professionals of England. Who are to annex
the “ dimes ”to be derived from the tour ? The
Melbourne Club, or the members of the team?
For a certainty, some of the members will not give
their services for ex.'’s oaiy.
* * *
The receipts for the late Intercolonial fell
but £1 short of £l5OO, by far the biggest total
reached for some time.
* * *
* When the raised subscription for the
Association Ground was first mooted, we pointed
out the alteration was one in the wrong direction,
and our prophecy has borne fruit. Before the
trustees decided to raise the subscription, the
number on the roll was something like 1200, but
the present season, with its increased subscription,
has brought together but a few over 300 members.
Next season the trustees will do well to go back to
the old scale, more especially as a deal of the
attractions to the ground, in the shape of bicycle
and athletic meetings, are tending Ashfieldwards.
* * *
A little flutter of excitement pervaded the
Agricultural Society’s ground on Saturday last,
the occasion being a mile trot between Mr. G.
Jones’ bay mare, Camiola, and Mr. McDonald’s bit of
blood of a like sex and colour—yclept The Cyclone.
Six to four on were the odds called on Mr. M Don-
ald’s mare, but outside the betting she was never
“in it,” as Camiola, with the inside running, at
once went to the front, and won somewhat easily
by about 50 yards in 3min. 24seo. Cyclone ran un-
kindly, being in a chronic state of break from
start to finish Mr. Jones’ mare broke twice.
♦ * *
During the running for the La Rose Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley (Vic), on Saturday last,
Cnilde Harold slipped and fell and brought down
Phantom, Berkeley, Genoe, Violet, and Achmet.
It w s at first thought a second Caulfield calamity
had occurred, but five of the jockeys rose to their
feet at once, the only one seriously hurt being
D. Donald, the rider of Violet, who suffered com-
cussion of the brain. The lucky jocks were
Weasel, Bence, Eliis, Williamson, ana Flanagan.
Quentin Masteys won the Maiden Plate, La Hose
Handicap fell to Salvo, Snip won the Selling Itace,
Allander appropriated La Roy Handicap. Dulcet
toe Novel Selling Rice, and Breeze the February
Handicap.
* * *
Edward Payson Weston and Daniel
O Leary, the well-known lonsr-distance pndestri-
ans, started on a journey of 2500 miles on Decem-
ber 6, at 10 30, at the Rink, Newark, N.J. O’Leary
at once took the lead, and at the end of the second
day had covered 106 miles, and was five miles in
front of his rival. The walking is limited to 12
hours a day. It would be interesting to tot up the
number of miles O Leary has covered since he took
to the heel-and-toe business.
* *
In England Messrs. Thurston and Co. have
a standing offer ot £lOO to the billiardist who first
runs up in a match a 500 break without the aid of
the “ spot,” and we notice J. Roberts, junr., the
champion of champions, has been getting still
closer to the coveted monkey with a break of 451
made in a match with North. This is 19 ahead of
the previous best without the spot, nlade by
Roberts himself.
« * *
“ Our troubles.” Some “ friend ” of Mr.
J. J. Richardson, erstwhile a Sydney boating man,
has broken out in the Nooze over J. J. R.'s
troubles at Grafton, it appears J. J. R. went
bald-headed for a sailing club at Grafton, and after
calling meetings and working up a provisional
committee, an evening was set apart for the elec-
tion of officers. And now the josce comes in. A
local bank manager was elected commodore, and
Mr R chardson vice-commodore, whereupon, says
J. J. R.’s friend, “ Mr. Richardson very properly
resigned the subordinate position to which he was
olooted.” The outsider naturally asks: Why have
au election at all if J. J. R. was to have the post-
t ion of com m odore as a matter of course ? J. J. R.
has taken his gruel badly in resigning the “ sub-
ordinate position,” more especially as the gentle-
man eleoted commodore has been a resident on
the Clarence more years than Mr. Richardson has
months, or perhaps weeks.
“ THB WIDOW’S MITE.”
He was the only son of his mother, and she was
a widow from necessity, not from choice. And,
takiog him to a bald-headed, but otherwise re-
speotable old gentleman, who made his living by
philantbrophy and pawnshop-keepißg, she be-
sought him to give her son employment, for they
were sore distressed, and knew not where to look
for the price of ice-creams, or tickets for the cir-
cus. And Bullwinkle, which was the old man’s
maiden name, taking pity on them, said: “What
can the young ’un do, mum ? ” But she answered,
“Whatever my lord desireth he will perform, for
verily, he can put his hand to anything.” And be-
hold she spake true, for the freckle-faced, touzle-
headed youth was engaged, and the very flrßt
thing he *• put his hand to” was the ancient duffer’s
cash-box. Then the widow and her mite slid, and
the old man having hired a Chinaman to curse this
pair back to the 47th generation, said he might
have known they were on the “dead make,” for
he never saw a boy any good yet unless he wore
one of Summer Held and Co.’a Sansparjbip suits of
boys’ clothes, at Bs. ild,*
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s
Soimapps.
Kind friends think of us particularly at
wedding time. Thoughts spur us to action. Ac-
tions take the form oi mementos, and these latter
assume various forms. Difficulty in the way of
selecting presents ministered to by seeking the
assistance of Bray Brothers, 402 and 404 George-
street A more beautiful lot of goods, whether
for use or adornment, than their sets for dinner,
breakfast, tea. dessert, or toilet, statuary, vases,
and fancy glass, it would be impossible to find in
the colony.*
Tnere is no reoruiting medicine ao prompt
and efficient as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
GQMPiIaNUNI GATESINB GO., UNITED,
PITT STREET, BYDNEY. 9 9
CHE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club,&c. s &e.
Tne Din mg Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, CooiuniST, and loftiest in the coiony.
FIRST-CLASS >iENU DAILY, Private Bar-GoodWine List
tar GRILL ROOM now open A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m to 11 p.m. (alter the
1 neatres Select your own steak. Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt wm,?, Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. IS* ». TOLLSIIIiACHE, Ceneral W»n#r«P.
JJIUBNITU* B I BOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Burner streets, Bydney.
Hall furniture, hatstandb,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and sina
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in wXQuisrfii
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for ftholoe China, ~40~
VERT ELEGANT, just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb. 71
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods.
and very handsome designs, with 7-fQ
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sino-u
rooms. Groat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM
li Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressingtable and
glasa, and two chairs. The lot for M. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable EarlyEngUsh
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached r * t
BOARD, and 2 CANE SE
BRADLEY,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, fronflta
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ’•
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards’
from J 83105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
X?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
eWOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
0 Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely
with swing GLASS
marble top, 80s the pair.
DRESSING-TABLE
and WASHSTAND,
Full suites for dining-room-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRB, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CH A IE-
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the Tfill of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds cqm-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in oanvas, If required,
2s. Bd. extra.
8
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLE BOARDB, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered to
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
OUIUU OUU IUUJiUg OUj • AIIJDt T IjJlk X DJQuA AV-*-*•*•■
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an®
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets,
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
BRADLKY
aell and Spring streets.
" ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. eaoh
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
* ji Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
B
ENT'WOOD FURNITURE.—A very eompls*®
Axsorimant: best Um d vxtoM.


m matters pertaining to newspaper ad-
moment the Devil is generally supposed to
have a greater say than the Deity. An Indian
fl Ai a r journal, published at Goa, recently ap-
peared with a leader commencing thus:-“Our
f cherished desire is at last realised. By the
help of the great Almighty we now appear in
broad size. We have succeeded to overcome the
reatest of our numberless shortcomings—namely,
the shortness of our size. The present develop-
ment of this journal might be regarded by many
as the climax of success; but we do not view it in
~ „ aame light, our ambition is not to be contented
cn PMifv We hope to make this journal, with the
hninof Providence, still more improved and
enlarged.” It is pleasant to see this religious
spirit Pervading the Press of to-day. With the
Nty U(wall's Don 0 ost
\oh L'A/CI/\f/dN 15 N« r
At . c E By SpANKH /
NtfiOfiiJ /
Cptynmfi'ic
<r
ife
SPAIV/5-H
Af^MY
/ fMr )
I ('/\V7 a i (V
* /y ' : # «
C A, |f/V\ t_ N
f o |
Warm - -ty|^
W£ should
|k M*£S ALL Pft£S& j
DON
i N "C
[ - £
, /K \
CA^er/
Fliftf'ilfjtf wrfh (3ulls
A"D Cower
Vow wpuulkuS' 7 w\
‘fam if-
'WoVStwij
march of the times we may yet hope to see even
the religious and Christian Evening Alfred
coming out with a Pall Mall article in one
column and one of Spurgeon’s sermons in another.
After that, the millennium.
The Hon. W. Halliday, M.L.C., was enter-
tertained last week by the members of the
Riverine Club, Wagga, prior to his projected de-
parture for Europe:—
Good Halliday, take holiday.
And set that House a good example;
Fear not to stop a while away
Upon your rights none here will trample.
Take half or all that push away,
And stay from January to December,
We’d bless your locks of iron gray,
And praise you &3 a “ moving ” member.
A musical magazine sets the song of the
nightingale the following words:—'Zozozozozo-
zozozczozozoaozo-zirr-hading," and so on. Wo
have heard the nightingale’s scng otten, m the
Domain and parks of an evening. But the night-
ngale was generally pretty full of long colonial
befbre the music flowed thuswlse from his soul.
Mr. Harold StepheD, M.L.A., is suffering
from abscess of the inner ear, and may not leave
his house. Wasn’t there a red flannel Stephen
recently who was on the healing racket ?
A person writes to the Age (Melb.) to say
that he heard a sermon at the Roman Catholic
Cathedral in that city, and that, having warned
his flock against mixed marriages, the priest
begged them to have no connection with Protest-
ants, “ as they were all a bad lot, and characters of
the lowest description.” We can only say that, if
the statement is true, a .journey through a horse-
pond under an enfilading fire of malodorous
turnips would about meet this enlightened
preacher’s oase. But we doubt its truth.
There is a heap of jocularity in most aider-
men. Last week, at the Richmond (Vic..) Council,
there was a great muss over a little ebullition of
humour on the part of one of the festive city
fathers. A Richmond man was speaking when he
stopped to complain that a Collingwood delegate
was pinching him in a manner that was insulting
to his dignity. The matter was seemingly smoothed
over during the meeting, but immediately after
they adjourned the Richmond man complained
again of the insult, and, as the Collingwood joker
declined t" apologise, there was a brief rough-and-
tumble before the amateur pugs, were separated.
Next day the Richmond man sailed round the
town to show the pinch to his friends, but as they
sheered off as soon as the locality of the wound
was explained, he went to a doctor, who certified
that there was a bruise as described apparently
made wilfully and maliciously by some person or
persons unknown. He of Collingwood admits
that Richmond’s eloquence bad sucn a somnolent
sffeot that he pinched himself in order to keep
awake, or at least meant to do so, but, as Rich-
mond was wearing pants similar in colour to his
own, the attack was probably made on the wrong
person. A friend on a pinch is said to be a bless-
ing. They know better than this now, though,
down at Richmond, Vic.
During the recent holiday time one of the
chief sources of amusement lor our visitors was
the piebald appearance of some of our railway
officials whilst on duty. The general impressioa
was that merry old Jack Faistaff’s ragged brigade,
with but a shirt and a half in all the company—
and that half shirt two napkins tacked together -
had been pressed into the porter service, but, in
our opinion, this was a totally unmerited insult to
the fat knight and his followers At one station
we invited the ticket-clerk to slip across to the
“Dead Finish” and nominate his poison, but he
declared, with tears in his eyes as large as ducks’
eggs, that, although he had been withering away
all the morning for a beer, still, his official breeches
were such a fearful wreck that he dared not leave
the friendly shelter of his counter for fear of being
run in by the first constable that saw him. One of
the guards was togged out in what appeared to be
a cross between the kbakee uniform and the cos-
tume of a New Guinea chief, an«t on our asking
why he did not appear in his official suit
he said he hoped he might be minted sky-
blue if he had received sufficient clothes
during the past twelve months to make
a mop for a doll’s parlour. A l.ttle further
along we came upon a station master who
looked like a walking advertisement tor a rag
mill, whilst the uniform of his solitary porter
simply consisted of a lot of holes sewn together.
They were a cheerful couple, however. Famili-
arity with departmental neglect had engendered
a Mark Tapley spirit in their breasts, and they
jocularly informed us that at the next station we d
und the officials going about their work in purls
naturalibus, with the exception of the telegraph
operator, who was a bit of a fop in his way, and
wore a pair of tarpaulin pants, and tied hay-bands
round his feet in order to show off his Oinderella-
like attractions. Luckily we were not going that
way: but, being shunted off to another line we
came upon a ticket-puncher, compared with
whom Solomon in all his glory was only a Domain
deadbeat in the way of clothes. He was a red-
faced, portly man of the Dutch schooner build,
ana his uniform was evidently made after the
pattern of a crazy quilt. He wore a Zouave cap,
a calf-skin vest, a postman’s ooat, and a paper
collar that was rapidly melting Into tea>-8 at the
sight of the undignified garb below it. One foot
was sh>d with a carpet slipper, whilst the other
sported a Wellington boot that had seen better
days—somewhere about the time of Waterloo. His
pants had originally been navy-blue serge, hut
the lower part of the leg on the boot side was miss-
ing, and a large a x 3 gap in the broadest part of
the back had been carefully repaired with a patch
of white canvass, on which was cleanly stamped,
“ Smith’s self-raising flour, 1121 b. Be sure you
get the right brand The next guard that came
along wore a little cloth cap the shape of a blind
boil, and the rest ot his outfit caused us to jump
to the conclusion that be was a helpless orphan
who was being reared by a maiden aunt who, in
early life, had met with a bad jar in the way of a
love disappointment. His breeches were of the
fluest cobweb texture, and when he began to olimb
over the back of the seat in front of us we shut
our eyes tightly, and fervently prayed that Heaven
would give the stitches in his pants health and
strength to hold on till we got to the end of our
wretched journey. Seriously, the present appear-
ance of some of our railway officials is a disgrace
to the department. The men are entitled to two
suits a year, and yet we are informed that some
portions of their uniforms are actually three years
overdue! For the sake of decency this should be
attended to without another day s delay.
If out of sorts try Wolf&s Schnapps,
To avoid mistakes ask lor Wolfe's Schnapps,


Our CHILDREN'S
COLUMN
Once more our young contributors have ad-
dressed us with all innocence and simplicity-
qualities which may be said to be embroidered on
the knickers and pinnies of our juvenile friends.
The hop" of Australia’s future is grounded on
t he talent of our young men and maidens. On
this page we depict in type and block the indica-
tions of genius possessed by those who are one
day to take our places in the arena of life. It is
difficult to say what place many of them will take
—a place in Darlinghurst probably. But it is not
so with little Miss Burns; she is fated to be a
leader in society. Her letter gurgles along in
this fashion:—
“Dear Bully,— l believe their governesses write
the letters for the little girls in two of the Sydney
weeklies. I am 10 years old and can’t write for
sour apples, but I can fight my cousin Victor left
TJ{AHT
3 OT— '
hand, and he’s 11. Last Monday I saw Mr. Dolt,
the magistrate, kissing our cook, and her police-
Wo T I M W //i/Mgr# i
‘-^^TMWDy
man came in while they were at it. They did raise
Cain over it. The ‘ trap ’ said he would run Mr.
Dolt in for assault because he had given cook a
smaok on the face, and Mr. Dolt said he would
commit Mr. Peeler for ‘contempt of Court.’
WA Tl /At^'EAS-r
Ac 7-
c 'SoF//\&[}RNS
Me ij,
There’s going to he a row. I tried to make a
sketch of it so as to show to Mrs. Dolt.
“ Sophia Burns,”
[You are developing womanly characteristics
very fast, Sophia. In a few years more you will
start many pleasant little wool-tearing matches
amongst your dearest female friends.— Ed. B ]
This letter comes from Billyrambijawillagong:—
“Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—Ma says I can
write you. I shall tell you about a boy. We
have a dog, he is dead please could you tell me
what he died of ? Pa «ot that boy from the Orphan
Asylum, and gave him a suit of olothes. The first
day he was at our place he was sent to get a load
of wood. He took Boxer and the drav when he
got down the paddock he backed the dray up near
a leaning tree and cut it down. The tree fell into
the dray and killed Boxer. Then the boy shoul-
dered the axe and started to come home. When
he was passing the lagoon he saw some ducks, and
thought if he got one pa would not be angry with
him, so he crawled to the edge of the lagoon
and fired the axe at one, the duck flew
away, and the axe sunk in the water. Then
he undressed himself, and went in to dive for it.
While he was in the lagoon some blacks stole his
clothes, and when he came out he was frightened
to go home. So he waited till dark, and then came
to the house. The dog saw him, and began to bite
him, so he climbed on the fence. Presently he got
a chance, and, jumping down, picked up a big
stone to throw at the dog. It was not the dog; it
was ma’s wash boiler, and he ibroke it into pieces
and pa got his gun and chased him. That* all.
“ Mary Allen.’’
[Your dog died of shotauniemw strychnineopho-
bia. You should have kept him tied up. Dogs
only catch this disease when they go into the pad-
docks of your neighbours.— Ed. B.]
Here is the screed of a genuine enfant terrible.
Yenus help the man who comes mashing his sister
“over the garden wall!”
“Editor Bulletin.- Dear Sir,—Don’t show
this letter to anyone, it’s about pa. He is on the
mash when ma’s two pretty cousins come down to
our place. Last Tuesday night they came down,
and pa was fooling round them as usual, and poor
ma had to mind the baby all the time. When the
girls were going, he said he thought he’d see their
down to the'bus. I thought I would put a stop
to this business, so I put a cup of linseed oil in hit
hat —the cup, too —and when he picked it up tc
start out the oil came down over his face and
shoulders and everywhere, and the girls burst oui
laughing and said they thought they’d excuse him
that time. He was mad. He has tried to tempt
me out into the washhouse three or four times
since then—he thinks I can’t see the strap when
he holds it behind him. I wonder what he takes
me for. My word, I’ve been there before. If he
don’t stop mashing I’ll serve him a worse trick
next time. I put two iron hoops in the garden
pathway the other night for him, and he didn’t go
out for two nights afterwards. His shins are get-
ting better now, though. Don’t say a word. I’ll
break him in or kill him.—Yours truly,
“ James Binke.”
[You may depend upon us, James. We will keep
all you have told us a dead secret.— Ed. B.]
The next missive comes from Redfern, Sydney.
“Dear Mr. Editor,—l read in your widely-
read jour [Keep that for the Sixpenny
Alfred, dear.— Ed. B.] last week Landact Bolton’s
story about the dog, and I thought it was a bit of
a chestnut, but I can tell you a true story about
my cat. We call her Dan because sometimes she
howls a hurricane. Well, she is trained to go
down in the morning with a jug for a pint of milk
when the man comes, and one morning she saw
that the milk was nearly half water, so she would
only give the man three ha’pence instead of,three-
T^farAwrrfF
w iKip milkmans'
A OOhr <\£TtVG,
&RiPWt /’KiSciLl a O'R.odfVCZ sZ>g€.
pence. Our milkman’s milk smells of tar. I think
he must let his cows drink from Hudson Bros.’
pipes. He used often to be short of milk when the
water supply was cut off, but has plenty now
since the rain. lam six years old, and my name is
“Bridget Priscilla O’Rourke.’’
[That is a pretty story about the cat, Bridget*
You should tell it to the marines.— Ed. B.]
The general tone of the next letter makes us
regret that its writer was not born a boy. There
is a masculine ring in the nervous and eloquent
periods:—
“Dear Bulletin,—l am only a little girl with
oM-bV f\ Litt
LE
CIRLr
) UvtTi-l
\ KED a
red stockings, and a long pigtail tied with blue
ribbon; but the silvery eloquence of Daniel Henry
Deniehy, and the refulgent glories of ancient
Greece and Rome are not by me more gratefully
welcomed than are the idiosyncratical character"
jStica of your val—[We bar this— Ed. B.]-and I
notice with surprise, bordering upon consterna-
tion, that men who have passed through the vary-
ing and manifold vicissitudes of misfortu— [Dan.
gave us all that last week— Ed. B.] last Sunday I
ME The
A/- Tne
nay
at baby upon the post of our fenoe, and he
tumbled off, so my mam. made me learn Dan
O'Connor s two last speeches. They was awful
\ .
‘leu's
It unlearnt all my grammar. lam five years old,
and my name la
Mignonette Lily Violet Bose Huggins.
“P.S.—May I request you to favour me with
your unbiassed opinion concerning my oaligraphi-
eal attainments ? ”
[Ob, certainly. Your names are very pretty
but from your photo, we think that your parents
should have added “ Mesembrianthemum ” to
them.— Ed. B ]
This youth has imbibed freely at the spring of
knowledge, which in his case is, we think, anew
edition of the “ Complete Letter Writer.”—
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear sir,— l am four years
of age and am at present unoccupied in any study
though for the last two years I have thought
seriously of entering upon the study of law. lam
at times troubled by doubts as to whether follow-
ing the honourable occupation of a ’bus-driver or
the equally honourable one of a policeman would
not be more congenial. You will allow me to
thank you for having devoted a portion of
your space to the use of your youthful
readers. The art sketches which accompany
the various letters are in themselves calculated
to awaken a healthy spirit of emulation in
the youthful breast, and may induce some of
your juvenile clientele to follow more industri-
ously the path trodden by Correggio, Del Sarto
Enil Gobart, Fletcher, Watson, Ladelle, Van Oss’
and others. The development of a child’s mind is an
epitome of the mental evolution of the race.
Happy is the child whose parents furnish him
with a blackboard which he can lawfully cover
with the creations of his fancy. I am afraid my
parents have no great love for art study. My
father has interviewed me several times lately
with a shingle in consequence of my attempting
to improve a plan which he had just completed. I
fear iealousy prompts him to this step. My work
evinces the possession of talent of a high order.
—Tours, truly,
“James Ayers,”
[lf Dan. O’Connor sees your letter, James, he
will just spontaneously combust with envy. Try
to sling us some poetry next time.—Ep. B.j
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Riverine (N.S.W.) Grazier says that
two of the members of a local debating society
bear the names of Woodhead and Allchin. This is
very appropriate, but Woodenhead and Alltongue
would be better if they at all resemble some of
the Bydney School of Arts Ciceros... .The citizens
of Palmerston (S. A.) have decided that the odorous
Mongolians are becoming more than a trifle too
numerous, and want Parliament to impose a poll-
tax of £3O per head. If this duty is imposed the
Chows will at least have the satisfaction of know-
ing that their heads are worth more than those
belonging to nine out of ten of the “ white trash I’ >
The captain of a New Zealand steamer reports
having passed within three miles of what looked
like a new island or “a ship beam-end on.” Or,
perhaps, like an empty bottle, or an enormous
snake An epidemic of fatal fights is now rag-
ing in Sydney... .It is a remarkable fact that the
man who gets killed is always the aggressor....
The Honourable John Carr, a delegate to the Wes-
leyan Conference, at Adelaide, pleasantly re-
marked that “ the aristocracy of England is trying
to become the aristocracy of hell.” He omitted to
state whether he thought they would adorn that
sultry region....Up at Bundaberg (Q.), two wall-
eyed Morigols were rivals for the ample fist of a
local ‘‘Maly Ann.” One of them,finding himself
only a very bad second in the race, called strategy
to his aid-he reported his rival as a lener. By the
time the supposed leper is caught, examined, re-
ported upon, and released, Ah Cute, the strategist,
will have a heavy mortgage on the affections of
the fascinating Maly Ann.
* * *
Bustles (says an exchange) are getting
t?=F£ er ,?+ d i. aJ if' er. If they keep on growing it will
be hard to tell whether a lady is taking her bustle
with her down-town or whether the bustle wants
to take a walk for its health and is pushing the
‘ ad y along in front of it . A clergyman in search
of information as to the religious tendencies of
theatrical people, asked an actor what most
actors beleived ia. “ They believe,” said the
mummer, ‘‘in God and the centre of the sta«e”
The Chief Constable of Nottingham admits that
on the occasion of the election riots in that town
some of his men “ lost their heads”; but he denies
that their conduct was in any way due to “ al-
coholic excitement Alcoholic excitemenf’is
good ; but when policemen lose their own heads
and break those of the public it is not much eon-
so ation for the latter to know that the excite-
ment leading to the loss and the breakage was
conducted, as the promoters of teetotal enter-
tainments putit, 1 on strict temperance principles.”
...At a recent Hong Kong regatta one of the races
was for sampans steered by Chinawomen. The
winning crew, coxswain included, were good
stayers. . ..The biggest petition ever received into
the English Home Office was that praying for the
is?™ 6 r H? ?Se £ f A r - Stead and Rebecca Jar-
rett. The petition had been signed within 13 davs
bore SCO,OOO signatures, and was carried in by half-
a-dozen men From her accession to 1884 the
Queen has received £23,210,000 from the country
nmTl n c d v, 8 t 0 rule -and is said to have saved
of the amount. The amount received
does not include the cost of sinecures, any militarv
or naval pay, or the maintenance of Royal yachts
and residences. Nor does it include the cost to
the country of Tecks, Leiningens, or Batten bergs.
The latest development of fashion in Paris
i* said to be an entirely new method of dressing
the hair by passing coils from opposite sides under
the dimpled chin of the fair owner and fixing the
ends of these at the back of the neck in a Grecian
knot. The mode is not likely to emigrate to Aus?
tralia. The girl who would wreath her tresses in
that way during the summer here would take to
stoking a tramcar in January so as to keep her-
self moderately warm. p er
Mdlle. Peon, the French lady lion tamer
was recently married at Marseilles to Castanet a
noted asronaut. The feature of the entertainment
at Mme. Castanet's show that evening was the
entry of the newly married couple into the lion’s
den. There is every likelihood of Castanet being
strictly true to h*s conjugal vows. Imagine f
man attempting infidelity when married to a lady
with a cage of roaring dons under her control
«o, imagination cannot stretch so far. Castanet
100n be devoted and obedient, or-sleep in hfs bal-
The Australasian Essayist is severe on
those who presumed to differ from Dr. Moorhouse
Hear him:— hrom the small-brained imbecile*
who would fain mock the Almighty by bwrlescue
of the sacred privilege of prayer . . from the
piiny insect, armed only with the venom of envv
to the subtle wary priest of error, every foe who’
has ventured to touch with defiance the shield of
pur Bishop has. by rolling in the dust beneath his
lance, served him better than lie thought?” Call!
mg an antagonist who grinds you to powder in
fair argument * a small-brained imbecile ’’ or a
“ open-mouthed idiot,” is about the meanest wav
we know of pelting mud. And it is th« mite
bedef V ?n *81?* after-fife te]ls that the
foundatffin on which to rest, the SnThS
bawls Darwin would long since have been proved
n? 6 a ] 4P k ’ and Voltaire “Antichrist ”
No doubt the Essayist considers Ingersoll and
Brad laugh a couple of “small-brained imbeciles ”
iw,Teh°o ieethat he a nd.his tribe always fight
shj of those micro-cephalic persons whether An
the platform or in the pamphlet. When Inger-
soli’s influence was found to be growing *OO
“shallow blasphemer’’" and
swinish unbeliever* were discovprpri fn vio-ita
los u their virtue in silencing* him—Father Lambert
stepped from the ranks to cover the
wl ,h confusion, if Paley’s “ Evidences of Design ”
ra sed more doubts than theylaia.it is not ton
m on to say that Father LamtferPs’“refutation ’
W-SeieSth™ 6 ?, *ll Ir.gersoll’s lectures,
wenave neard Bishop Moorhouse many times
h i .r r wl e h ed M loBt s a S opportunity of lisfcnffig to
him. We believed he was a goon man, and knew
speaker. But to say tha? he
has added one iota to the sum of human know-
ledge. or met in any way the modern objections


BRIEF MENTION.
nn North there’s an editor called All-
oin Most people consider the timber is con-
fined to his head.
Were the greater portion of the Northern
editors placed in the balance they d be found
wanting a drink. _
strict orders have been given in the com-
nnsiog-room of the Penny Henniker to keep in
tvpe the cross-heading, “ Another Fatal Fight.
The Melbourne Salvationists are jubilant
hnpfluse they have succeeded in converting “a
maa of good position and the mother of eight
children.”
“If ever, Rupert,” said one Sydney Lancer
in another, “you observe me getting up the
wrong side, you’ll Just please mention it in a
friendly way. I’m rather addicted to it, when ex-
C His Excellency having found that he has
contracted for too much beef for this lot of aides-
de-camp, has sent home for four more. The
others can’t hide the beef away anyhow-and
they look it.
Two married women and a dog were
struck dead by lightning recently at Dubbo.
Half the married mea up that way are trying to
get their wives to walk about In that vicinity ever
since. The dogs are kept tied up.
The Melbourne Herald quotes with
approval the old saying that “the worst possible
us'j you can put a man to is to hang him. We
should like to take a ballot of the opinions of the
Herald repotters on that matter.
“Dandenong,” says the War Cry, “is a
rural town, out in the country.” Fancy! What a
flood of information would come out of that man
if he were but tapped. We only wish the Army
would give us the job—we’d tap him.
In the brave days of old the portion of the
liar was sudden death He who deviated from
fact was struck dead. If this rule still obtaioed,
it is rather difficult to say how the evening papers
in Sydney would manage to get along.
The Wilcannia people are undecided
whether to form a cricket club or a fire-brigade.
Several subscriptions from prominent residents
have come in for the cricket club, but only 2s. 6d.
from “a lover of fun,’’ for the fire brigade.
A Lloyd and Collins young man got 12
months’last Friday for “sneaking” six handker-
chiefs and four pairs of ladies’ gloves. Serve him
rightl It was a brother draper who beguiled our
girl from us -with a pair of hand-painted silk
stockings.
The Melbourne Catholic Young Men’s
Society are going to debate on Love and Marriage
soon. If subjects of this sort are allowed to be
discussed at the society meetings, where will the
suppiy of priests come from ? Ireland, as usual,
we suppose.
The Anglican laymen of Melbourne are
worrying themselves about what they should pre-
sent as a souvenir to Bishop Moorhouse. They
want to give him something that will be “ charac-
teristic of the colony he is leaving.’ ’ Why not
give him a trumpet ?
Says Mr. Russell, the Government astro-
nomer:—” In Great Britain a great many storms
come from the western coast of Ireland and pass
over to England.” Britannia may rule the
waves, but she cannot prevent the Irish storm.
Only Home Rule can do that.
VOID.
Vide School of Arts Election.
Scott: One, nine, five—but ’tis in vain I
(The figures are a sin 1)
The “ push ” will have to vote again,
For they’ve put nothing In.
An old North Queenslander buried his
fourth wife, a fortnight ago. A friend, unaware
of his bereavement, meeting him last week, en-
quired “ How’s the wife, Joe,” to which the
widower pnilosophically replied: “ To tell you the
truth, old man, I’m kind o’ out o’ wives just now.”
“Mr. H. Dawson, M.L.A., left for Sydney
on Sunday morning,” says the Cooma Express.
“A wire from him on Tuesday morning states
hat he has arrived in town safely and much im-
proved in health.” Harold Stephen, the other
member, does not wire either bow his health Is, or
what he’ll take.
This wasn’t the secret conversation be-
tween Brigadier-General M'lver and his Excel-
ciUency at, the Royal Society’s rooms the other
night. M’l.: “ As one soldier to another, my
lord .’’ Lord C.: “I'd be most happy, old fel-
low, but the fsct is I really haven’t it about me.”
It wasn’t a bit like that.
“Frederick Jessop, a rabbiter. engaged on
Murray's wool station, near Golac (Vic.) was shot
dead accidentally by a clerk on the station named
A. W. Wickham.” This gentleman, we hear, had
been previously politely requested to desist. The
last time he was out he went for a rabbit near
the homestead, and shot a clock.
In the corridor.—Messenger (doubtfully,
to 7-foot Hibernian, with dental hair and a lighting
hat)—“You want to see the Minister, do you?”
(Aside to him, jocularly—“ Now, what are you
after, Pat? ’) Stranger (in a hoarse whisper)—
“ Afthcr!! Why, afther me little Post-office, to be
sure.” Messenger (admiringly)—“ This way. sir.”
The Bega licensing magistrates to an
applicant:—" We have nothing to say against your
character, or your fitness, but at the same time we
refuse to grant the license.” That s flattery
enough to soothe any man In misfortune, you'd
think, yet they say that man’s curses are heard
whooping along the coast from Twofold Bay to
Wollongong Breakwater.
* “Which is Hogue’s room, please?” en-
quired a distinguished Melbourne pressman of one
of the staff, as he paused, benighted in the gigan-
tic building. “ The second to the left is Mr.
Hogue’s room,” emphasised the reporter, driiy.
And to tuink how, one time, we used to have
supper in the cellar at the—. However, “No
scandal about Queen Elizabeth.”
It is said that the young Duke of Port-
land, who, on the death of his half-crazy uncle,
came in for the dukedom and something over
£200,000 a year, has succeeded his Excellency in the
affections of the future King Albert Edward. The
Present Duke was formerly a sub. in the Guards,
and for years the nearest he could get to Royalty
would be going to tea with Henniker in Vere de
Vere gardens.
What it has come to, of course! Scene,
the Block. Two crawling lickspittles meet. First
C.L.: “ Aw, how do ? Say, oie f’ler, now all this
adulation and that kind of thing is over —dam baw
—I called it—wbst (bends down; what did lie come
out for, eh?” Second C.L.: “ Oh, I s’pose some
little—First C.L : “ Ya-as-haw, haw 1” They
ffiv one another in the ribs, and disappear for a.
drink into the Domino Club.
Weary scribe, who is taking a hurried cup
°f tea and a roll at a confectionei s, nods to a
couple of friends who pass. First friend: “Huliol
there’s old Scratcher—fancy! I wonder, by the
Way, he does not write more for his country
Paper?” Second friend (severely): “How can
you expect a man to write fora country or any
other paper when he passes the whole of nis time
ln a pie-shop ?'” Sydney ail over, isn't it ?
For the benefit of the sufferers, Dr. Moor-
house lectured on “ buffi fires,’ the other night,
■hi hall w«s thronged with the members of the 1
hhesbyterten Assembly who excommunicated M •.
btrong The Angdcan Hishop’s freely-expressed
°oubts in re hell caused them a deal of unhappi-
ness some time ago. As the Doctor was unsound
Regarding an eternal fire, they thou ght it as wed
to hear his views concerning a tempo rary one.
We have been having a glance at the
Northern Miner, which, somehow, impresses us
as bq l g . poor Blu fl> Toady’s political ideas seem
to have got as crossed as Malvolio’s garters, and
na humour is suggestive of the sepulchre. He is
evidently lonely in his old agre, though, is
Thaddeus, and requires congenial society. We in- I
ler this, anyhow, from the following item:— I
"The Northern Miner bought a mule on Satur- I
day.”
An Auckland schoolmaster shot himself
dead, accidentally, recently. Nothing is known
of the particulars save that he remarked to an
acquaintance, not long ago, that he was tired of
dreaming every night that five times eight was
seventy-two. The deceased appeared to be in flrst-
class circumstances, and was amply—even lavishly
—provided with smoking caps and slippers. Over
fifty different book-marks, too, were found upon
the —drawing-room table.
Speaking on the subject of murder by ■
law, the Melbourne Herald condescendingly j
allows that " There are many worthy people who
are opposed to capital punishment altogether.’
Harmless cranks, you know. But although it is
tired of hanging and would like a change, it can
never give up the sweet advocacy of slaughter.
Its latest fad is an idea for killing criminals with
electricitv, or narcotic vapours; so the hiccup of
the Herald soribe may yet be utilised.
Fishing seems to be developing as an in- j
dustry on the Macleay. A fisher recently got a j
net from Sydney, and, according to the local !
paper, he “ proceeded to capture the finny tribe.”
The first cast he got two posts and one rail, the
second cast brought one Dost and two rails to ,|
the surface, and the delighted piscatorial enthu- j
siastis quite satisfied with the river as a fishiDg-
ground for fenciag stuff. He will probably go
fishing next time with a maul and wedges, and try
his luck under the greenwood tree.
The Junee beer bibbers have struck for at.
reduction in the prica of the colonial tap. Six-
pence per "long-sleever ” is the figure quoted by'
the sellers, but buyers are holding out for a four-
penny bath. As a consequence-pain-killer, Far- .
mer’s Friend, and turpentine are advancing, anal,
the war threatens to be fiercely waged. The boni-
facesareto be boycotted, and malt liquor declined,,
even in shouts. Hang on, gentlemen of Junee,
the eyes of the world are on you. It is a noble'
fight, a martyr’s cause—in summer, too.
Sydney milkmen have adopted a new
method of trading. They run away from their
customers. Mr. Seymour, the Inspector of
Nuisances, had to pursue one of them for a half-
pint of milk, the other day, and then only obtained
it with the aid of a policeman. Tne fluid is now in
the test-tubes at the Government laboratory. As
it is with this erratic tradesman our landlady
deals, the lodgers come to the table blear-eyeu,,
silent, and distraught tifUthe result analysis
appears. We know of water, chalk, borax, and
glycerine, but we fear worse.
One of the four boatmen who helped to>
save so many lives when the Dandenong went'
down, has, we see, got biffed out of his boarding-
house in Melbourne, and the burgoo and sausage-
man has impounded the hero’s gold presentation
watch on account of sundry plates of hash, solo
and delivered. We think, considering how long
ago the wreck oecurred, the nautical gentleman
must have done pretty well out of the glory part
of it; but still we think the ragout retailer might
well have let the poor man have a few more tight-
eners on account of the ticker.
A curious thing happened at an inquest
held in the Melbourne Hospital a few days ago.
The doctor who had made the post mortem exami-
nation proceeded to read his evidence, and had got
well through it. We believe the tendency of it
was to prove that the deceased had met his death
by eating poisoned fish—when the Coroner stopped
him suddenly. "What does all this mean?” said
the Coroner, “ why, the man fell from a four-
storey building on his bead.” There was a mis-
take in the name. How the corpse would have
guffawed if he could have known!
A N.Z. parson not long out sent bis friends
in the old country a photo, of a group of Maoris.
Conspicuous among the aboriginals appeared the
likeness of tbeir Maori clergyman, a tall, well-
whiskered. white-chokered gentleman, a very
fair if somewhat dusky specimen of the race. By
return mail tbe sender received a letter from home
acknowledging receipt of the photo , and stating
that his friends were able to pick him out from
the group at once. They considered tbe likeness a
capital one, and his mother especially was de-
lignted with his improved appearance.
The Presbyterian Church of Monaro can’t
even support its parson, and since the rev. gentle-
man declines to take it out in turnips, has had to
borrow, in order to make up the £3OO, which is the
rev. Archibald’s annual compliment for whole-
souling. After the meeting, the other day, the
General Agent of the Grand Assembly suddenly
appeared on the scene and collared all the books
and documents. They were to be audited, he ex-
plained, in Sydney. Borne of the Committee now
growl they didn’t want a Church: and an indig-
nant individual was heard to say at the Feathers
Inn that when they got his 10 notes out of him, he
thought it was for a skittle alley.
The Rev. Father M‘Donough, of Rook-
hampton (Q ), is a large-hearted, charitable clergy-
man. He had appointed a meeting with an
impecunious parishioner for Monday. The first
question the priest put to him was: " Were you at
Mass yesterday?” “Yes, your reverence, and it
was a grand sermon you preached entirely.” "You
heard me then;” ‘‘Every word as plain and as
distinct as if I had my ear in your reverence s
mouth.” Here the Father gave a peculiar grin and
said: "Graoemere is about ten miles from this
place, and that’s where I preached yesterday; so I
must have a thunderiDg tine voice, indeed, if you
heard me in Rockhampton.”
There is a boy living near Port Melbourne
whose courage and coolness borders on the un-
natural. A wild bull rushed at a man the other
day and made a neat hole in him. Encouraged by
this success, the bull was about to charge again
when the boy crossed his path like a streak of
lightning and threw a kerosene-tin over his horns.
This is an absolute fact. The bull was completely
ccwed, and lay down on the ground and wept,
while the man got up and kicked him. The boy
went down tne road whistling, and casually
throwing a stone or two at a passing Chinaman, as
though nothing particular had happened. That’s
Young Australia for youl
This is funny. The late Mayor of Colling-
wood was recently presented with an ad nr ess
which begins:—"Presented to Job Staaton, Esq.,
J.P., Mayor of the City of Collingwood during the
year 1881-85. This testimonial is presented by the
Mayor and Councillors in recognition of the im-
portant and courteous manner in which you con-
ducted the meetings of the Council,” etc. Im-
portant and courteous manner I The Collingwood
town councillors must be either the picked
flowers of Bumbledom, or very sarcastic fellows
indeed. Dickens said somewhere that even a
beadle was mortal, but surely after this a Mayor
of Collingwood is not expected to die.
The eollapse of Russell’s storm should be
a warning to meteorologists not to blow. This
particular hurricane it seems was working its way
round the coast, apparently bent on keeping its
Sydney engagement, wheD, off Twofold Bay, a
waterspout in distress attracted its attention. The
opoortunity for a mild flirtation was too much, so
it 1 .ft the safe shelter of the coast, and was lost at
sea, being last seen assisting its droll partner to
trip over a floor of foam to tne music of a thunder
storm. Tbis should be a warning to gales to come
overland if they would escape temptation. And
it should be a warning to Russell to make some
allowance for the inconsistency of the winds.
There is a bad time coming for thunder-
clouds. It is no w proposed to tap them by means
of electricity, and draw off the wat*r they might
otherwise carry out to sea. Tne project is by no
means a new one. By means of small exolosh a
balloons the thing was tried years ago. It suc-
ceeded for a while, until the clouds, rendered wary
by experience, adopted the plan of escaping with
tbe water while, depositing the thunder. And t
offers too many temptations to greedy persons
also. For we may be sure that as the applianet s
for moving the clouds to tears became perfected
men would be found unprincipled enough to se-
cure all the rain for themselves and then pass tbe
thunder and other stuffing on to their neighbours.
At that scientific meeting. Military I
stranger, looking fiercely round the meeting |
amidst a dead silence after a laugh had greeted
the list of his titles: “ I can show a battle for every
order, a scar for every star'. Doughty deeds. 1— —
E have donated me these decorations. and
sabre wounds obtained for me my swords. And it
does me proud to sav that not one of those said
decorations in the shoe-trunk; now beside me was
gained either by ‘ squeezing Asiatic water-
carriers, or passing third quality cat-gut. Can,
thundered the stranger, “ we all in this room here
say as much?’ There was no response, but
several people sitting near the door were observed
to take a hasty, if not guilty, departure.
We have been tired of the French ever
since we learned the soul-inspiring lines:—
“ Two froggy Frenchmen and one Portighee,
One jolly Englishman can lick all three;”
therefore we are not disposed to let down lightly
a lively Gaul who was in our immediate vicinity
recently at tne Stuart banquet. “ There, Mushoo,’
said his mentor, pointing to the guest, that the—
hm iim j 1 * etc* SjCL J)IdQUC CBt CISS&Z dVOIC t
said the Frenchman, who was tninking of his two
guineas, “eet ees fonny 'nuff; but why you dress
him up all in black?” And he cast eye all over
the roof in search of a a trapeze.
The foreigner I
The Wentworth Advocate has been de-
luded into telling, as a remarkable fact, that a
snake In the Far West swallowed two baskets of
eggs, and lapsinv into a state of coma, was
killed at the end of three weeks, when 13 chickens
just hatched were taken out of “ his snakeship.
This shows how the country ‘Press may be got at.
Why, such a thing as this is done every day in some
parts of the country- One man down South has
over a dozen carpet snakes which he regularly
employs in this way, and a Bermagui man has
tamed a wobegong shark into hatching goose eggs
for him at a wailaoy a clutch. It is rather a re-
markable thing, though, that ducklings hatched in
this way always swim under water instead of on its
surface, and when killed have, like the Advocate
man’s yarn, a decidedly ancient and Ash-liae
odour.
The Even Nooze, in a reoent issue, pub-
lishes a truthful account of a snake bite and its
effects. A splitter had placed his tools in a hollow
log, and upon reaching up for them he laid his
finger on the mouth of a black snake. Chopping
off the linger promptly he proceeded to tne doctor,
after wuich he returned, and, seeing the member
lying on the ground, he picked it up, smelt it, and
fell oack dead. This is about the ten thousandth
time this lie has been worked off by second-rate
country newspapers, and not one of them seems
to have got it right. The man was not a splitter;
he was a News reporter, it was not his tools he
had concealed in the log, hut his lunch, and it was
his head and not his finger which was poisoned,
and which he afterwards cut off. The rest of the
story is true, except that the man did not die. He
is still on the Nooze.
Melbourne men are gradually learoicg
how to mount a tram-car when in motion. It
looks an easy thing to do, but next to the refrac-
tory back-block charger there is n thing harder
to climb on to than a tram-car in the act of fol-
lowing its calling. We watched a portly Mel-
bourne merchant of sedate yet dignified bearing,
attempt it recently. He clutched his umbrella
firmly, compressed his lips, dashed forward, seized
the railing, got his feet on the car, jerked back,
grabbed excitedly at something in the air, then
sat down in the mud, and the tram went on, un
concerned like, without him A boy, actuated by
a strong desire to do that which is right, brought
the portly merchant his belltopper; no doubt the
gentleman was glad to get back his hat, but be
swore at that youth, and smiled on the spectators
like a menagerie tiger at feed time.
Little Bob Smith isn’t cousins, now, with
the Patriotic Fund, and has ceased attending the
deliberations of the directors: and besides this,
has taken away with him the flower of the body.
All sorts of stuff gets voted into the chair now-
people, really, that Cupid could hardly be supposed
to—eh ? The Fund met as usual the other day,
and nearly distributed a £3O note I The application
of a drummer’s widow for a trifle out of the till
with which to lubricate a bellicose sardine-
purveyor was referred to the Annual Assembly
of Directors 1 The applicant was thought to say,
as she indignantly departed, she’d be at the
bottom of something before long, which elicited a
babbling retort from the director nearest the
Necropolis, that it didn’t much matter wbat she
went to the bottom of, so long as she—he 1 he!—
bobbed up in time for the Annual Assembly of
Directors. He! he! (Applause.) Shoo!
The subscriptions to the Bourke Hospital
show a decrease of £333 odd for the present year.
The canvasser explained to the Board that when-
ever he broached the subject of subscribing to
any other of the townspeople-they, one and all,
returned him the same manner: ” Hold on till 1
come into it, old man, and I’ll subscribe fast
enoughl” It’s not long since a madman arrived
there, overland, and, handing the affrighted
wardsman a shilling and a circus ticket, went up
stairs and curled in with tne fever patients. He
lived nine months on that ticket and shtlli g, and
when last seen was anxiously inquiring of another
professional pat'ent by the lire in the ” men’s
nut ” what the burgoo was like you got for break-
fast at the hospital at Bre*arriua. and how many
times you had to turn black in the face, froth at
the mouth, and get your legs tied up in a knot
before you got your little gill of port wine at 11
o’clock and your little egg-flip at nine.
The Hod. James Munro will stand for
Geelong in the water-drinking interests at the
next Victorian elections. Geelong—the cradle of
the Millennium—the Promised Land of Dissenters,
which floweth with water and vinegar—should be
par excellence, the correct shop for joyless James.
There he can thunder forth his denunciations of
drinking, smoking, dancing, and theatre-going to
a smug-faced and sympathetic multitude. None
of the Geelongeese proper do any of these things.
A few social outcasts run whisky mills for the
accommodation^f wild roysterers from Melbourne
and Ballarat, and the theatre is opened once a
month to an alien audience of something unaer
20, but the abolition of these last refuges of the
unregenerate may shortly be expected. In a mis-
guided momeut, Messrs. Huddart Parker con-
ceived the notion of running a steamer from
Geelong to Meloourne on the Sabbath morning.
They did it with the best of motives, thinning i-.
provide a means of escape for such unhappy
strangers as had been lured iDt) the to v, n
on the preceding day. The Geeloirgeese rose
as one man to protest against this iniquity,
and the excursions were discontinued. An
opposition line occasionally runs a Sunday
bunt from Melbourne to Geelong and back-
especiaily back- The good people of the to>vn
retire into their houses as the steamer approaches
the wharf, and emerge with tearful eyes when it
puts off again. Sunday or work-a-day, an atmos-
phere of oreary piety hangs around the shores of
Corio Bay. No enterprising wordling ever suc-
ceeded in business there, because the old-estab-
lished saints band together to pray the newcomer
into the Bankruptcy Court. “ Lord, forgive him!
and take his trade away,” is the burden of their
united prayers. Geeiong, in short, is the very
place for James Munro to represent in Parliame t.
It possesses but one cheerful element of society.
That’s the Harmy.
R. C. Lusoombe (Nitbsdale-street) has been
having a poor time lately. The Protected Socf e y
of Gunfoczleites has been pensive 6ver since they
had to fork out their £4O over the Northumber-
land election, and poor R. C. is no more Sir Ora e
amongst them. It is no longer, alas, a esse of ”1 t
no dog hark ” when the great orator rises with ) is
hand under his little coat-tail to address them.
Once admirers of, the Gunfoozleites are no longer
even tolerant of R. C.’s oratory. When he comes
to speak of the ‘‘glorious future,” when eveny
mported cigar shall have a threepenny stamp on J
it, he is in these days, sad to say, frequently in-
terrupted by cries of “Time!” “That’ll do,”
“Put the plug in,” and other interjections of a
like nature. In the result, were it not for his well-
known high (and even chivalrous) spirits, the little
man would be crushed indeed. Ho no longer
sits outside his little house now, after tea,
and, while still masticating the remains of his
last crust and butter, receiving the respectful
salutations of his humble neighbours. The en--
sweetened cry of “Three cheers for the hon. mem-
ber, R. C. Luscombe,” called for by the Nithsdales
on account of the glory which his return had
shed upon their street, no longer floats upon the
breezes; but, while peering cautiously out at
eventide, he not unfrequently hears one boy say
to another boy—“ Come on down here, an’ I’ll
show yer the little cove wot lost his forty pound.’ ’
We see, however, that little Luscombe has once
more contrived to get his name in the papers as
having been “ on the platform,” in company with
W. Richardson, and other equally splendid
creatures at the meeting in connection with the
revision of the tariff. That reminds us that it is
always at those meetings at which the Riffed-Out
of Northumberland is to be beheld on the plat,
form that we are be found in the
body of the “ orl.”
The Mayor declines to furnish any “ pecu-
niary assistance” towardathe formation of a fresh
city band. We had a city band in the years, we
think, of Harris, and Mr. Bass Hodge was its
prophet. It was a tuneful assembly, but rather
erratic as to its numerical totals when mustered to
play anywhere. Members would neglect to attend
upon the most trifling of pretexts. And they
would not even deign to forward excuses. In the
whole of Hodge’s archives he vows that there is
not a single letter from a musician saying, “ I
have bought a goat, and therefore cannot come,”
but he has a glimmering of once having been the
recipient of a document (since destroyed) from the
tenor horn, which ran—“ Tostler’s puppy-struggle
this afternoon at the Ken. A knocker to expect
mel” The result was that while on some occasions
—as at the races, for instance—the band made a
fine show, and performed amidst great applause;
at smaller gatherings, the city band shrivelled up
to that extent that in the overture to the “ Crown
Diamonds,” Bass, instead of conducting elegantly
with a cleaned glove and a bit of firewood, was
reduced to the necessity of blowing into something
himself, and leading the orchestra with his foot*
which was fortunately distinctly visible to the
naked eye of each municipal bandsman. The result
was that the city band gradually faded. The
people were delighted to hear it, but they refused
with singular unanimity, to “part,” over and
above the gate-money, for the entertainment.
And that reminds us that the unanimity of the
public on such and kindred subjects is similar to
that of Puff’s stage-characters—wonderful. As
the Mayor gave Mr. Reid (what Reid is this ?) ap-
parently no reason for his refusal to assist the
band financially, it is permitted to us to suppose
one. The fact is, music hath no charms for his
worship. There may lurk within his lustrous eye
the latent Are of poesie, or half-twined round half
an ear may be the laurel-leaf of music—that is
best known to those that know him best—but in
our opinion, and it is one framed upon the various
graceful, elegant, generous, and forgiving acts of
his worship, the music that would sound sweetest
to him would be the clicks of the picks upon a
culvert that had been made by the other
man. And, after all, what do we really want, with
a city band, when any four musicians, picked
from the Young Australian posse of performers,
will back themselves for a good stakes to loosen
the roof of any pavilion down the harbour, if they
are given anything of sufficient size to blast Into.
This Young Australian band, now we think of it,
should be popular with the local Nupkins
Humph!
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERT
COUNTRY TOWN. .
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRTUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The ‘‘BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing machine,
BSALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AMD COUPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole importers
BEALE AMDJCOMPAMY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANT LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspond* nts who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Jackass” (Balaclava): The gentlemen
you apostrophise in your unmetrical howl are
dead. This is lucky for you. Were they still in
the flesh we would send your little yelp along, and
they would he on your track in less than 10
minutes “ Tempe ”: It would be better to draw
the wager. You are possibly thinking of Green-
field, whom he fought last year. His records prior
to his earning his present reputation are not
obtainable “Narrabri”: Glad to hear from
x ou. Send ns as much of that sort of thing as you
te..,.“Cuthbert”: What are you giving us? A
'J\ CHEpuT'I
■/VO 1 y
'* r^iiNTiNE's/^ //"
~ftTo W/\YS of
FYF
'4/,", thing
‘ rf \/aLEHTINZ'
s " 77LA 5/ O/VLy /7A/OTf/£R
/v/?jry c/Sfqjje Ffto/$
7
ut > ftjd
r//e (,/fp
IE d PART-y Tv/Zo CoMPOS
AS [/A LEW T/WEEdf
J//cf P/fiE/vr//v£ To 3 [3
/J ptS/TT TOO PRTO/Ul/S
/v//6SJTj£-
Y/
//£/? l//UFMT/A/£ Totf/sy-
. /7 P//BL/C s POCt/W'£A/T.
/ j
S e//7< 3 ff/ i/ %££"r//YSAIt c/ay <f
yay n Of!
■ a r/y appro/*?,ate cl/s/for a />acAe/or s f/ff/*/
'//oa.'rder.- T See, an cl as // to esvfi/cis/ze your frerry
/9/le<rory you SeJecteU a /Buy / a ear//'
7//£ Pooß
Postal CIfRK
Sc/R it/!/£-£) -ft/f c///?/ST A?A 5-CARD
/T(J/S A A/ C£ O/V/y 7~0 FAL.L A F/C77W
TO IRA L £/TT/A/£<S
OUR FALFA/T//VF To
ArMoR/Bi/asl) Af//v/s rR y -
Ot/~. carfo/ £~y jj
fairy tale ? You say, “ they were dissecting the
calf,” and subsequently, that “the calf was let in
to the yard to pick out its mother.” Now, Cuth ,
this is mixed; if dis-ection had commenced, the
calf was dead, and if it was dead it wouldn’t know
its mother. See? Unless you know, you put the
hide on and wandered in yourself. She’d
know you then. Send us some more, though
“Macleay Reader”: Yours may be facts, but, as
they are all double-barrel, breech-loadiog choke-
bore libels, we would not touch them with a lire
shovel unless we had some hope of proving them
when called upon to face the Supreme Court
muaio “J M ”: Thanks for your optoi >n that
all the members of our st*ff would make very ex-
cellent parsor s The compument Is quite origin*!.
. “W.G.” (Newcastle): The measurement for
air space must be taken where the men are work-
ing .. “A. 0.” (Brisbane): Letter and excerpta
welcome.... “E.K.T.”: Yea, it is quite true tnat
he is in business again...."J.J.": What do we
think of it? The editorial ukase against the
use of swear words won’t permit us to say
“Justice": You are on the right track
“ Koko ”: Very glad of your cuttings and letter...,
“LD.”: Not up to the mark this time. Cannot
find your other verses now, but they were prob-
ably read at tbe time of receipt—“B O.” (How-
long): Wbat is your trouble, madam? Did the
men play cricket without their clothes, or did
they go away from Alburyin a state of unclothed-
nessandget pants at Howlong? We are sorry
taat we can’t give a pioiure showing how they
looked when they were running about in search
nf garments... .“ A.H.”: As the matter is now sub
judice we prefer to postpone comments ...
“Crookwell Show”: Will probably use “J. 8.”:
It would only interest East Maitland, we want to
interest Australasia ...“A Friend”: You merely
repeat arguments which we have fully considered.
. ...“Kalamurina”: You ought to try and get
someone to turn your Doem into verse..Veritas
Vincit”: Splendid thing. Eminently suitable
tor a basket we have. .. “Bearskin”: More
deeply inscrutable than a Sanscrit novel to the
majority of our readers—“J.P. (Brunswick):
Cannot now find criticism referred to, nor recall
its tenor....“P.M. (Grampian) : Your verse is
fairly correct, but shows no particular power. Try
to get a strong subject to work upon. Write, say,
some stanzas to a Hteamhammer, or a lyric to a
locomotive "LJ.C.”: Fair verse, but, you see,
none of our staff know what the “ kipp ” is, or
how “two-up ’ is played, so cannot gauge the
correctness of your treatment •‘Nick”: As
we are not licensed victuallers, we don t like your
first verse, and as we are not mysogynists, we
don’t care much for the second . .“Pepper and
Salt ’ (Wagga): We are not going to raise Cain
because an alderman has been elected who can’t
write his own name. They rather like them that
way down here. Even if a candidate has tried to
write someone else’s name, that is not generally
considered as a bar to his election—“ Sno-
dgrass”: Good thing, but we are full-up this week,
and it will not keep . ..“J.W.”: You say we are
the first who ever read your screed and then suc-
cessfully dodged the lunatic asylum and the under-
taker. Then, why in the name of all that is ma-
jestic, do you write to us every other day with a
special supplement on Sunday? —“Rip”: You
are quite right; it would be just as true to debit
religion as the P.M. Gazette disclosures with the
Coburg tragedy. It is not necessary to find a
cause for the excesses of lunatics...“ A.D.”: N 0....
“Jackass”: The metre in your soDg this week is
very much what it ought not to he. Send some
slabs of tbe same kind to the Jernil. They
printed Sladen, and your lines are not much less
like poetry than his were....“lxion”: Your poem
asks “ what is Bliss.” Never to see your writing
again would constitute a large part of it in our
case “ St. Peters You ask, “ What is a good
thing for mosquitos ?” Beauty’s cheek is what
our own experience tells us they seem to like pest,
but we can’t tell whether it is a good thing for
them “H.Q.D.”: Will be able to use in next
issue....” Freethought ”: You will see our opinion
on the subject elsewhere. Cuttings acceptable... -
“Travelling Talk Good sense, but scarcely ex-
pressed in our style. We are familiar with all the
ground traversed, and agree with your remarks ...
“ B.G Clark ’ (Launceston): Thanks for clippings.
We dealt with the matter last week—‘ C.E.”:
Verses held over f ir illustration
Keceived too late for this week. Shall read and
deal with next.
General MTver has obligingly consented
not to horsewhip General Strickland, of Soudan
celebrity.
The Sydney police have haled before the
justices some individuals who have been detected
in the heinous crime of slaking their thirst on the
Sabbath Day; but they have not yet discovered
the footpads who committed highway robbery at
Waverley last week. By the way, the City Coroner
has laid it down that a person may assault you
with his fist, but you must not retaliate with a
piece of wood. Such a method of self-defence is
manslaughter. In defiance of this expression of
oninion, wayfarers in the Waverley suburb after
dark carry with them nobby little shillelaghs, and
any stranger who asks: “ Can yer oblige with the
loan of a match,” or “ Could yer tell metheker-
rect time, please ? ” exposes himself to the con-
siderable risk of a rather striking reply.
The brethren of the Ole Buffer Lodge
rallied round the festive board one night last
week. The Vice-President couldn’t sing or make
a speech, so, after labouring in the throes of com-
position for a few hours, he was safely delivered
of what he called a Con-nor-um-drum—“ Why is
the Postmaster-General like a peacock? Because,
after a spread he exhibits a tale full of eyes ’
For this intellectual production he was presented
with several p'eces of piate, one of wnich, coming
into contact wi h his left eyebrow, effectually put
a stop to the composition of any more conundrums
Irom the V. P. during the rest of the evening.
When the vital system has been weakened
—use Woepe’s Schnapps to renovate it.
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.


.-oanomlent—' wiser in liis day than
A Mren of an average M.Phas written,
the chl !fl how he overcame the neighbour who
tJl lin? h® borrowed hia Bulletin. Hia practice
rtjruiarly boric weeks to out at nndorn
htf bee ° f „°h from the paper before sending it to
a P a D r gf r ower. Shortly, a messenger would arrive,
' '
Am F-TYTURFS
o/ A JU. ■/ : ;lt 4 ~ -s- J /I
AV- ri
r\ v; f-t
U m *-•<
1.1
Ac c e ss&**& #TFuTaU prc €l.*i d 4 L clr,
/ArriveS. pointed
of '"O^uilofJ
ampi nc ’ oat
Utters
J<Qi qc
re well
03 ji* 3 P} an
'asking the nature of the missing paragraph Tiie
■reply was unvaried—- ob, the matter ooes not
concern anyone except myself,” and the neighbour
Promptly scoured round, endeavouring to obtain
Possession of an uncut copy. The third time the
borrower was full up, and advised his friend that
•any man who would cut his newspaper was too
«*ae&n to any longer enjoy bis confidence. He now
intended buying his own, and intercourse between
the families was no longer necessary. Now Tue
Bulletin has double the circulation in that
settlement, and each man roads his own. Thera
are only two inhabitants in Mudville.
It is an ill-wind that bloweth good to
nobody. That “Coburg tragedy” has provided
some on® with the opportunity for writing an elo-
quent letter to tbe Melbourne Herald ou bandit
of Hampton pere. The correspondent—“ Sympa-
thy ’’—suggests that the Victorian Government
shall grant Mr. Hampton twelve months’ leave of
absence. But to the poetic beauty of his appeal
we would respectfully call attention—“ Surely it
is our duty to assist our brother now be is under
a thick black cloud. And thick it is indeed, ex-
tending as >t does from heaven to earth, from the
footstool of the Almighty to the head of our poor
brother . . . Stunned with the magnitude of
his calamity, apparently deserted by God, with
the very heavens falling around him, he has not
suggested or asked for anything, not knowing
where to look, where to tread, or whom to ask.”
Without wishing to say any tning unkind, we must;
delicately hint to Mr ‘•Sympatny” that warders
at Pentrddge Stockade—where Mr. Hampton Is
employed are not apt to get “ stunned ” by any-
Hampton wasnot so ove?come°bJt I what
tackle tbe undertaker who wanted to make too
fat a job out of his murdered child’s funeral.
But, setting all that aside, “Sympathy” writes a
rich and treacly letter, to he sure—and all over
another man’s misfortune. Now, if this fervid
gentleman’s own mother-in-law were brained by
a Woolloomooloo larrikiD, where could he find
words to engrave upon the tombstone
Jt ;s now denied that fish diet makes
brains One of tue S M HER4.f/p r<p rteis has
recently owned up to eat ng iHe buik of two
Darling whales, and admits that his head doesn’t
hurt him a bit more than it used to.
The world-renowned tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.,


How the Roughrider Died.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Open wide the shutter, Harry, let me feel the
evening breeze,
How it murmurs soft, scent-laden, through the
flower clad forest trees;
See there where the sarsaparilla climbs that old
dead white gum's trunk,
And the sun throws creeping shadows from it
right across my bunk.
Early in the day, old fellow, they were playing
round my head,
When the shadows reach the shutter, Harry, I’ll
be lying dead.
I wasthinkiDg all the morning, just before you
chaps came in,
What those people mean who tell us each man
must repent his sin;
I have done no sin I know of. What is sin ? I
drink and swear,
But I never wronged a woman, or to man was
else than fair;
Yet the parson came this morning, knelt and
prayed my soul to save,
And, when leaving, said forgiveness must be
sought this side the grave,
Told me in a serious fashion (what it did no good
to know)
How a woman ate an apple some few million years
ago,
And since then black, white, and yellow, each and
all are full of sin.
God ain’t that sort, is he, Harry? I think that’s a
bit too thin.
I can’t manage this repenting, all I know I've got
to die;
God will ’* see me fair,” old fellow. What’s up,
Harry ?—going to cry;
Don't be soft, you grey old badger, you’ll peg out
some day, I s’pose,
And we might meet one another in that other
world—who knows ?
Why will people tell a fellow that he’s got to go
to hell—
They don’t know, they’ve never been there, no one
yet came back to tell;
But, old mate, I’ll soon be wiser, though a breaker
wild and rough,
Than the people who are preaching hell and flame,
and all that stuff.
Harry, I’ll just have to chance it, I can’t pray—
forgotten how.
I’m not frightened—only sorry that I have to die
just now.
I am strong, just two-and-twenty—punch this
chest, it’s broad and sound,
Yet by this time Friday, Harry, I’ll be lying in the
ground.
Oh! tnat ugly wall-eyed filly, ere she banged me
on that gum,
I had very little notion she’d send me to Kingdom
come.
In my swag you’ll find a letter my old mother
wrote me nere,
When I m buried send and tell her that I’ve gone
a little queer:
In a v,eek or two then write her—she’ll expect to
hear it’s so—
That i’ve backed my last bucbjumper, gone where
all at lengtb must go;
Tell her that I still remembered what she used to
teach me say
’Bout “Our Fatner,” but I haven’t—it will please
her, anyway;
Make a lot of little crosses underneath my name at
last—
Kisses for the poor old mother—Harry, I am dying
fast.
Puli tne shutter wider open; let me see the flowers
again.
Hear tne curlews. How they’re screaming I Harry,
that s a sign of rain.
I don’t feel a pit of sickness, I could kill a bullock
now,
Or make things almighty lively in a fair four-
cornered row.
But my back that’s broke, old fellow, something’s
wrong inside my head,
And the doctor said by sunset I’d be numbered
with tne dead.
Harry, what’s gone wrong, old fellow? I keep
slipping, siipping down,
Hold my hand—how dark it’s getting—where’s
the gum tree’s shadow thrown ?
Harry, don’t forget poor mother —you
must write—her wh—what I said
Climbs the shadow o’er the shutter, and the rider
lies there dead.
An English lawyer recently stated a
novel item in his bill of costs—“ Proceeding no
further, 63. 8 d.” This charge is indicative of ex-
pansion in the catalogue of legal services, j
“ Neglecting to attend court,” and “omitting to
remember to file your petition,” may both now
be considered good excuses for the extortion of
six-and-eightpence. But they will hardly be
needed, for when did a lawyer ever want for an
excufe upon which to hang the characteristic
amount.
At vVentworth (N.8.W.) a bevy of beauti-
ful maidens (so the local advocate says) were
bathing when a very rude young man strolled
down to the bank aud expressed his Intention oi
sharing their bath. Tney were annoyed at this,
but not dismayed, for, after a preliminary yeii,
they formed ia line and, armed only with tueir
beauty, their Dathing-dressee, and such sticks as
tney could collect on so short a notice, they went
for that young man with a vim a id celerity that
would have been a caution to Kahkees. He es-
caped, and has not been seen within a hundred
miles of the place since. A cynical Wentworth
man, wno heard of tnis event, says it is no wonder
tue gins ran after Peeping Tom—“he was the omy
man they could see.” This is UDjust. Wentworth
girls are not built that way.
Wben the medical man at the inquest on a
Sufferer from tne MeiDourne Hospital offered evi-
dence about one who had died from what the
nospitai .people humorously term natural causes,
whereas the aeceased was an accident case, the
Coroner excused his professional brother by saying
tnat so many deaths occurred in the hospital chat
doctors are at times puzzled to know which is
which. The question arises whether the same con-
fusion doesn’t exist in the treatment of patients.
The appalling death-rate in the Melbourne Hos-
pital may be partly owing to the fact that irac-
tured skulls are prescribed for as diseased livers,
and so forth. They do “pop-off” in that institu-
tion, to be sure. " All hope abandon, ye who enter
here,” should be written above the doorway. But
there is one consolation for the sufferers.
Although there may possibly De some mixing up
of their physics, and misunderstandings at tneir
inquests, we believe that the identity of their
corpses is strictly preserved. Now, at the Mel-
bourne Benevolent Asylum they are not so par-
ticular. If two of the oid inmates pay in their
cheeks together, it is even money betting that they
get buried in one another’s graves.
Much sympathy has been expressed for a
suburban councillor ot Melbourne. One night
last week ne was walking home, tninking abo-t
borough improvements and matters municipal,
when a lady approached him aud unfolded quite n
pathetic little story, She tola the beaming coun-
cillor that she was the wife of the Ohiet Commis-
sioner oi .Railways (billet is X3OOO a year), and oa
lost her way Wnat words can tell the councillor's
distress ? Would sue do him the honour 01 oomi. g
to his house and taking some refreshments ? eh
would. Tne councillor rushed indoors, and in a
few hurriea woros .mparteu the gao tidings f
this rich social ’find’ to me wile. Sne was ever
whit as diaaesseu us her nusbni d. The warm
hearted woman (vide Me,bourne derata ) cneo,
“On, dear, you must be tired ; come in, Mrs
Speigat, come in.” tne weary wanderer cairn in,
and taen—O, Jehosnophat I-she provtd to be a
harmless Oid ciank from the next street. Wvutj
or being Queen Yictoiia, Isabella ot Spain, auu
people like that, sne is taking a spell at oeing nars
Speight. Whether this poor old lraud had those
retreshments we are not in a position to say. We
should guess not. But now you understand why
the Melbourne councillor is an object of sympathy.
There is said to be a fashion in Paris now
for getting off weddings at midnight. This is to
teach the bride to wait up for him. Girls easily
reconcile themselves to the fashion. “ Better late
than never,” they say.
Here is a ghastly item. Henry Smith, a
labourer out of work, was charged at an English
po ice court, during Christmas week, with s ealing
refuse food, value threepence. The evidence
showed that the prisoner was starving, and that a
soldier at the camp had asked him to take some of
the food which he could not eat off his plate. As
the refuse food was sold to a contractor, the pro-
secution obtained a conviction on the ground that
Smith, by taking this swill-tub refuse, was robbing
the contractor, and he was sentenced to a months’
hard labourl Ye gods! this is British law-the
law that is modelled upon the Biblical code. And,
by the way, before we forget, let us mention th»t
the Queen (God bless her) has just been graciously
pleased to contribute £lO towards the London
refuge for starving dogs.
The intellect of the average newspaper
writer seems to be -in one respect, anyhow—about
on a par with that of the average policeman. If a
murder is committed policeman and pressman
ache equally and lie awake at nights to And out
the motif for it. This is frequently more than
even the murderer himself knows. The other
day a farmer living near Kilmore cut his wife’s
throat shortly after dinner. And this is what a
fatuous Geelong editor says with regard to the
affair:—” The precise incentive to the murder has
not yet transpired. Some attribute the deed to
jealousy, while others believe that the man’s
mind was unhinged by financial difficulties.” Oh,
bat-eyed Geelong editor! Didn’t they quarrel
after dinner ? And what other time is so auspicious
for quarrels as this? An ill-cooked joint has
ruined an empire belore now. The pangs of indi-
gestion produced in the stomach of a statesman
by eating an underdone veal pie have plunged a
nation into all the horrors of war. Motives quotha!
There are no more motives required than a severe
attack of dyspepsia to make a man kill all his
blood relations. The writer has had it and knows.
You remember the feud between York and Scott,
in the “ Iliad of Sandy Bar.” They were old mates
and suddenly quarrelled. No one knew what the
cause of the quarrel was, but it was carried out in
a bitter and venomous spirit. Each did his best to
ruin the other. At last whisky got the best of
Scott. In the;meantime, York had prospered and
gone on his travels. When he came back he
heard his ancient mate and enemy was dying. In
the face of death all animosities cease. The two
were reconciled by the death bed of Scott. The
latter, while the light of life was slowly fading out
of his eyes, said to York with his last breath, •* Oid
man, you know you did put too much saleratus in
that bread.” That was the cause—the motive, as
the editors and policemen say—of their life-long
quarrel.
Don’t be put off with any fictitious brand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the genuine article.
THE “HITCHCOCK” LAMP.
• •
The best in the world for
burning' kerosene. No
chimney required, no
Bmoke, no odour, explosion
impossible.
This Lamp produces a
better light than gas, or
any other lamp in exist-
tence, it does not cost over
one farthing per hour, and
gives light equal to three
ordinary lamps.
This Lamp is now in all
countries throughout the
world, and thousands of
them are now in general
use in Australasia.
Testimonials are coming
in from all classes from the
different colonies testify-
ing to the superiority of
this Lamp, a few of which
are submitted to the
general public.
We defy the world to
produce an equal light at
the same expense as the
“ Hitchcock ” Lamp for
house use, halls, churches,
hotels, streets, steam boats,
billiard tables, railway
i stations, cars, printing
offices, stores, mines, factories, or any other place
where light is required. We caution the public
against worthless imitations of this Lamp.
Testimonials:
146 Phillip street, Sydney,
31st January, 1885.
Gentlemen,—Having now useo, for some weeks,
one of your Hitchcock Patent Kerosene Lamps, I
unhesitatingly pronounce it to be the best light 1
have ever seen for medical use. The steadiness,
brilliancy, and soft colour of the flame render it
invaluable when the opthalmoscope is in requisi-
tion.
I am, gentlemen,
Yours, very faithfully,
A. WILLAN JACKSON.
_ Cooma, June 6.
Dear Sir,—l have very much pleasure in certify-
ing to the durability and finish of the Hitchcock
Lamp of which you are agent I have thoroughly
examined it, and must say without htslt»tion it is
the best of the kind I have ever seen. I have fre-
quently had occasion to repair lamps of similar
make, and believe that the mechanism of the one
I am now writing far exceeds any of them—
stronger, and not nearly so complicated—and I
might also mention that it is a most economical
light, one Lamp showing as much light as three
ordinary ones,
I am yours, &c.,
C. HAIN, Watchmaker.
_ _ Cobar, Sept. 3, ’B5.
Dear Sir,—l beg to acknowledge receipt of your
note making enquiries as to the Lamps purchased
some months ago, for our church at Cobar. It
gives me much pleasure to be able to inform you
that the “ Hitchcock” Lamp is all that it is repre-
sented to be. 1 have seen nothing equal to your
Lamp; it is many degrees superior to the ordinary
kerosene lamp, and is admirably suited for church
use.
Most sincerely yours,
L. BELGER.
Carisbrook State School,
_ , , 7th July, 1885.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in certifying
that I have been using one of Hitchcock’s Patent
Lamps for some time, and that it gives a very
brilliant steady light in a large room, and is a sav-
ing in kerosene and glasses; the flame is very like
a jet of gas, and in every way the Lamp answers
all my expectations. I intend, if possible, in future,
to use no other.
Yours, faithfully,
HENRY BEILBY, Head Teacher.
Dunolly, Victoria, 7th July, 1885.
Sir,—lt affords me very much pleasure indeed
in bearing testimony to the superior advantages of
the “ Hitchcock Patent Lamp'’ over those in com-
mon use. The light given by this Lamp is bright,
clear, and steady— not unlike a jet of good gas
light, but without its flickering. By means of it
t can see clearly to perform many little delicate
operations that I would not have attempted with
the ordinary lamp light. When covered by the
shade it throws down a soft clear light, not at all
uiju’ious to the eyes while reading I can confi-
dently recommend it as a study oi consulting-
r om Lamp to country pr«etitioners tike myself, as
well as to the general puDiie.
I am. yours truly,
J.jA SUTHERLAND, M.D
Agents wanted in all parts of Australasia.
Dealers and storekeepers supplied at the lowest
rates direct from the manufactory at the Com-
pany's Agency, 60 York-street, Sydney.
R, Allingham,
Sole Agent for the colonies.
&
&
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
S3STEIv£.
aL<, ° t,lre UP °“ ‘ t< ’ “ T 6r ’ de “'' erea beI »™
BE. J. EA7BOCE,
i+ o Llv ® r hft B been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation p™™
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economv as Vo/™ 0 ;? 1
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive cmran/ofn! 8
.3 > «T ei H ed 0 Gluc ® Be and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal veirn & Here *bv
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now
system! W ° purpoBe8 ’ viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting inthe cell growth f £f “he
, . Dr - Murchison says, “ Tho composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constants
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as snnnna
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ bod?
?. r . th .® Passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. °I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of marked
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach,
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
Headache in front of head.
“'’’mSSSjJKS m “‘" r ' "‘“ 1 I “ Bitude “ d * ai»P°sHlon to leave
vide himself with a LITER STIMULANT, the most commoHorm of which “s a Pm d ft/iv
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of lnei«n£
it^&hiT^fludtlb r A u So£fiZZ‘^it^ aye '' a “ tl,erefore have m,ae a p?u ’» a «
Dr. Haydock’s lew Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
,n Fo J a ll Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydook’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure,
will satisfy the most sceptical. “
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude. Want of Ammrite an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy! ° Appetite ’ m
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOR SALE BT ALL DRUGGISTS.
One Pill
Every Pill Is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free tn anv ad
dress on receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT'DELAY. 610
a Be ™ re t ? ie genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J H Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this “
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market an’v seen
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address market, any seep-
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, IT. S.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1861,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
8TOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
Order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
-
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but weli-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
fJWE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 676,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
Dr. George On Lee,
46 WYNYARD-SQUARE. SYDNEY,
WILL see patients, February 12th, at Goul-
burn; 13tn, see patients at Braid wood;
15th, see patients at Queanbeyan; 19th, see patient*
at Dubbo; 25th, eee patients at Bega; 26th, see
patients at Eden; 27th, return to Sydney.
Ist March, will Remove to 31 YORK-STREET,
WYNYARD-iQUARE.
Nervous and debilitated sufferers.
—A medical treatise, showing how you may
be cured without consulting a medical man. With
valuable recipe s for purtty mg the blood, removing
sain diseases, urinal affections, indigestion, &c.,
&c. Sent post free, for Bix penny stamps. Address
Medico, P. 0., Box 766, Sydney.
T H wbdkS^1 s s i^ N i&™llm, [ '^!. Btock
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors :-Thomas Learn, ontb, Esq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A. ‘ ” '
agaffisTdeSh* 08 ’ SheeP ’ PlffB ’ and Doga lnsured
aoCG Pted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castleroagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
Bros. S; Co. XI
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BA.ZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales 1
oflA-T STOCK at HOME BOSH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 C ASTLERE A.O H STREET.
J. MURPHY’S"
Central Loan and Oiscount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite Gecrge-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tli s t;liy.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at bates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy s Central Loan aud Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
Gr
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGII STREET,
Near Market-street
A Blessing in every Family.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is uot a country in the civilhed worJd
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
su ff ©r ©rs
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78NewOxford-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.


Cilticura
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
from:
M
"N /
Scrofula on Neclu.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1,086 of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skiu and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutieura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cutieura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
■ssnoH tit p©q.xi«jj^
‘KRHSSESE
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
ALL NOXIOUS I
FLEAS FL! ES. BEETLES MOSOUITO ES
COCKROACHES.SPrHA*: IS
AT TH E S AM E Tl M E QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTH El
ANIMALS
t
G
ţ
KrALLCHEMISTS
STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON* CRIMWADEVC 0
MELBOURNE
Ask for KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every House.
MAWHOOD. RESTORED I
A Clergyman haring tried every known remedy
_ a forth# CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUti
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c. ? hae at
iMt discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wnich, f«a
»e sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
«"• Prescription which CURED him. Addreee.
kith self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A. CLARKE. F.O. Box MB, Sydney.
1
£1
UMHHE3.I3O
OTUDT IGONOMT
O and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst St#.
Parasols made to match cos-
turner. Repairs neatly eye-
eetesp
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOd7|
° /J rsoP & so^ s
'VS V D N E *,—£=:
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
toE
T OBACC O
- <d<j
DIXSOH a> SONS, Sydney,
popeess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more Amerioan Leaf
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roarer, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE!!
Trade
<* s -
Mark,
3STO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Eever-
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly kills all bad
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all chemists.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
Thue iAlon e ftUsc . Jfel3sten>
p
%c*~-
'fIfTTLLIAM BULLARD has tha Largest Stook
\\ of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Sec.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can he had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &0., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
ill upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Pans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stook,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid eopies.
Sand and obtain fuU particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
FISHING TACKLE of every description
Pishing Rods, all prices. Artificial Plies,
Progs, Fish, and Insects. Plaited Silk Lines,
Twisted Bilk Lines, Hooks on Gut, Gimp, and.
Wire. Our Noted Sydney Lines, from 3d. to 2s
each. Long Bamboos for fishing rods, and eveijy
description of Pishing Tackle.
Fishing Nets, ail sizes; prices sent on application.
Also Seine, Herring, and Salmon Twines; also
Cork.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, Pishing Tackle Depot,
411 George-street
■A.’toraZb.suaao.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are ttie popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hoar that they have not afforded
imnt ediate relief.
434 GEORGE BTREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un»
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Bold by all Grocers aDd Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Bon, Foreßt
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only nmker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Red fern.
Lln-em. G-loss
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,“for the speedy cure of Nervous Debility*
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY,
Wi
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
uunmsßL
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
er EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


Ad Te.
[TO THE BULLETIN.]
Hear thou I august, that, on thine awful throne,
Usurp at all judgment to thyself alone;
iiear me. and witness every tuneful Muse,
Whose aid propitious basely I abuse—
The despot bids me leave the lofty lay,
Vainly reluctant I, alas 1 obey.
*0 whispering groves and tinkling falls
The tyrant to the fetid gutter oalls.
1 leave the grateful greenery of the glen
10-gather mud to throw at other men.
Now all that to simplicity was dear
Must be the object of the obedient sneer;
whate er seems prompted by an impulse kind,
ror that I must some meaner motive find.
JjCpoP from the soil the iiow’ret rises pure
t* t> ” ,pte down, it springs from vile manure
P” —s the ship of state on prosperous way
"Pio® with a practised hand, my voice I raise
.Detracting, and with meanest treble cry,
r-vPPoyerished patriot, pay for what you buy.”
t'lpndly 0 gt nbe praised to-day,
' t? list,” I cry, “ the Jingoistic lay.”
(tor l°ya(ty belongs to by-past day,
Uet Russia lead to anarchy the way.)
if any live a blameless life and great
a * drunken aunt,” I cry, elate;
M rh e cross the deep, dividing flood,
Let sneers assail his monument of good.
Rewarded merit must be still my mark,
Curs, when the moon’s effulgent, loudest bark;
"Peligion is my fairest butt of all,
The atheist state you never see to fall;
My views I turn the editor to suit,
As the shoemaker shapes the ordered boot.
For such subservience I must well be paid
Since at thy feet my very soul is laid;
I bend in awe at thine omniscient gaze,
And thus I plead (what suppliant meeker prays ?).
The cringing couplets I herein have crammed,
Print thou! dire editor, or else .
19 th January, 1886.
MUSOPHILES.
Ad Musophilem.
[BY THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve printed it, you see, Musophiles,
Like Alfred’s organ, we “desire to please,”
And as, like many a one we know, you burn
To give us what you’re pleased to think a “ turiv;* 1
‘A® one whose foot is bitten by an ant,”
This small delight to your small soul we grant.
We re used to it, Musophiles, we’re used
To beiDg sneered at, thundered at, abused—
'Tls nothing Dew. To us. from time to time,
In all the lunar-rainbow-hues of rhyme,
As Bsdlamites, with flowers decked out in state,
Come frantic messages of rsge and hate.
Slnoe flret we set our sturdy plough afield
We’ve kissed far heavier rods than you can wield.
The Church that preaches Christ has, from the
first,
Held us a Luther, tea times more accurst;
And self-denying priests of ssventeen stone,
With lives devoted to His work alone.
With heads by Nature half-designed for horns,
Whereon sit jauntily their crowns of thorns;
Huge-stomached prelates, who devote their days
(As well, indeed, they may) to prayer and praise,
Yet use like aldermen their knives and forks
And show exceeding skill in drawing corks;
Who, ever toiling for rewards divine,
Can tell you to a day the age of wine;
Have held it little short bf deadly sin,
In Catholloe to read The Bulletin.
And late o’ nights, o’er many steaming bowls,
Invoked good Latin curses on our souls
(A. commination to the wrath to come,
Whose incense was of Old Jamaica R 1m).
Smooth-spoken vicars, sleeved with finest lawn—
Religious Meeklns, born to smirk and fawa
On wealthy patrons of their diocese—
Embodiments of simpering grace and ease—
Have of times begged us, in their mincing way,
No lODger to lead feeble souls 'astray,
Showed us how God had ordered all things well,
Though some find earth a heaven—some a hell—
That some must find delight where others weep,
And cheerful shepherds tend unhappy sheep,
Argued that good and ill were Heaven-sent,
Urged us no more to stir up discontent—
Assured us that while life and death endure
Among us always will be found the poor,
Then, finding us a lion in the path,
Implored us to repent and flee the wrath,
And went their ways and vexed their little wits
To hit upon some way to give us “ fits.”
Pa T sons and politicians, fools, or frauds,
Or both, call down the vengeance of their gods
On our poor heads, and almost every mail
Bears threats designed to make our cheek grow
pale,
The which we tremble at, but every week
Turn out our rag, and turn our other cheek.
Jn vain you sing, Musophiles. In vain
Your pen takes up the sycophantic strain,
The “ eringing couplet ” you’ve delayed too long;
To-day the people’s ears love not such song,
To-day across the world the echo rings
Of that stroDg manful note that Swinburne sings,
In whose large musie is o’erwhelmed and drowned
The sickly monotones of “ Hands all Round,”
"Which peals aoross the Valley of Dry Bones
And trumpets Truth to those who sit on thrones.
A poet this, who, standing unabased
To hireling flattery, bids flame lay waste
The hell-born despots and foul dynasties,
While others chant their litanies of lies,
Gives gilded infamy its fitting name,
Brands every ermined harlot with her shame;
For men’s applauding thunders nothirg oares—
Admits his worthlessnesses—points out theirs—
Who sees no Royalty save what Is won
From Innate grace and action nobly done.
Not his before a tinselled Royalty
To “ crook the pregnant hinges of the knee,”
And sing the wedding of some stonebroke piince
In lines that make e’en crawling eritios wince;
Not his to win the envied Laureate wreath,
And laud eaeh Royal babe that cuts its teeth;
Who smites Hypocrisy as with a sword,
Nor stoops to write what Peerages reward;
Who says alone the thing he thinks is true,
And leaves the rest to just such scribes as you.
Still, be not downcast, new aspiring Bard;
If we with such contempt your muse regard,
Your pen is scarce a Partingtonian broom,
Twixt gray abuses and the waves of doom,
But all your class will cling to you, because
Men on the verge of drowning cling to straws.
A® yet the world but yawns and rubs each eye,
Ihe full awaking is for by and bye.
As yet men grope among the growing lights,
Aj“ slowly recognise and claim their rights
(When Bonivard at length his freedom gains
mu a m 1 _ oa *' f®arS to leave his rusty chains);
Though Henry George’s pen and Swinburne’s song
Show clear sharp boundaries of right and wrong,
The end comes slowly—the worn feet that trod
Hard ways, taught well that ’twas the will of God
(Wot that such servitude since earth began,
Was ever compassed by the will of man),
[•carce venture yet upon the velvet sward
Vouchsafedto others by a gracious Lord.
bo long have weary fainting men hewn stones
To rear the palaces of titled drones,
And knelt with reverent knees and lifted eyes
To hooded teachers of bequeathed Lies,
Ihe olden bondage worn into their souls
The new-awakened spirit half controls;
And, half-rebelling at the despot’s nod,
They sometimes spurn, and sometimes kiss, the
rod;
So, ere things ge completely to the bad,
New singer, make your new employers glad.
Heed not that Truth avoids the tale you tell,
you 11 nnd your patrons will reward you well.
(To be Continued.)
The latest development of the testimonial
mania is reported from Palmerston (8.A.), where
“the jurymen forming panel at the Circuit Court
just completed,” presented an address to Judge
Pater, expressing “ their appreciation of, and
thanks for,” his kind and courthouse—no, cour-
teous treatment. From this testimonial we are
tempted to infer that judges at that city of China-
men and shilling drinks are apt to visit the sessions
only for the pumose of having a real good time,
and making the country howl all round. We can
fancy the style of judges who would go there and
not be kind and courteous. They would probably
have four-round Quee isberrys with the jury until
they had exhausted the panel,” calling them out
by a means of “challenge” unknown to British
law; would throw Coke upon Littleton at the
witnesses, cram the barristers into their own
brief bags, and clean out the prisoners at blind-
hookey or “two-up.” Then they would likely set
bull-dogs on the Chows, and depart without the
neatly-worded testimonial of appreciation of, and
thanks for, etc., etc., leaving nothing but curses
and desolation behind them. Mr. Pater is evi-
dently the “daddy” (do you understand Latin ? If
not, you miss our pun) among the Palmerston
judges. In reply to the address he expressed his
pleasure to hear that the release of “ jurymen not
sitting on cases” was of advantage to them. From
this we understand that there are not enough
cases-gin-cases, to go round when a Palmerston
court is in session, so that some of them have to
stand up when they “sit on a jury.” This move
of the Palmerston jurymen marks a new and very
wide extension of the testimonial system, and
will, we hope, not be allowed to pass without
imitation in Sydney. At ail future sessions at
Darlinghurst, the jurymen might gracefully pre-
sent the judge with a slight testimony of. etc., and
the barristers could then hardly allow the jury to
depart without the same compliment. Nor should
the peelers be backward in publicly notifying
their thanks to the prisoner for his court-eous
conduct, and he. if hung, could hardly go decently
out of the world without giving Nosey Bob a
slight token of his gratitude for the careful efforts
of that functionary to make his translation to a
higher sphere dt is a well-established fact that
murderers always go to Heaven straight) as easy
and agreeable as possible. We do hope these testi-
monials will go ahead, for—on the whlsper-we
write them for five LAds. not allowed in this
column.— Ed. B.]
Balm for a Sore Heart.
Having been troubled for many years with the
tetter, and spent many a hard-earned dollar I
was given atrial of the Cuticura Remedies
and, thank God my hands are well. I never had
anything do me good like that. Sometimes mv
heart was sore,thinking I would have to give up
altogether with my sore hands, and having a small
family to take care of; but oh! thank God, my
hands are well, so I again return tuanks
ELIZABETH BUCKLEY, Littleton, N. H.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a mild aromatic
stimulant, and is essentially suited to this climate
Ask for Wolfe’s.
B|For close confinement, want of
abits and brain and nerve tire,
Bitters (American Co.’s.) Read
air, sedentary
trust in Hop
When the blood moves sluggishly io the
veins because it is loaded with impurities an
alternative is needed, as this condition of the vital
fluid cannot last long without serious results
There is nothing better than Ayers Sarsapa*
rilla to purify the blood and impart energv tn
the system. 10
Mb. Db OotraoY Browne (late Deputv
Chairman of the Mining Board of New 8m •h
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers
53 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.* 8|
Wolfe’s Schnapps. The public should
demand and take none but the genuine Wolfb’s
Schnapps. a
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a hed of sickness,
take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Hevive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
pation, or are young and growing too
fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am, Hop Bitters will give you new T.ifn
and Vigour.
" HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
them harmless, ami sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.’’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white la-bei. and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
“Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,-Allow me to say
that I And your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
“ Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Mookb.
“ Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
oommending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ and
Eett-Puder ’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly.
Alice Reis.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
FETT-PIJDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions!
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
The “Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. '
Wholesale Agents for Sydney •
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale’Chemists
oc
1
LIMITED,
356 George-sfroet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
356 fieorge-street, Sydney.
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
T’StSSff 110 *' hea i* hful > refreshing and thirst
quenching properties of this worid-renownS
°f Ba*' iie have obtained tor Messrs
Po s te r Co. the highest award given ai
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Pnrfnr
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage to
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
Wine wJd° Snirif 0 nr 6 « btal of all the leading
Sole Agents Pl * Mtirchantfl ~ CAT TELL 3t CO.
E
VBKYBODY )
BHOULD USB f
PEMELT.'R
EXTRA SUPERFINE
. „ it.. 18 made FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD. TY
VICTORIA TLOUR MILL,
BSI G corse -street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS AID CASES, TREACLE AID EOLDEI SOT
Colf_Koi«i nM IF A I r-. _ V
Self-raising Crated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR . SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
1. &A, have obtained Eirst Awards all over the world r 1,1 nr i i Q
“■ s "» »* i”“a’irSdSss, ssaa. a?*" **>
S»<r tinny W. H. ABiIELL & GCI„, 343 ®&bi? &«nf-stras»t,


Aw »rde<l Three
A Prize Medals
K. ' 3-.
/,;l‘v",ti 1" "Q
I a“ ,.‘ .
4.3P-3/‘1I:
- .. _. ..
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PIKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art furniture
AND
Appointments,
Brass, Iron, and Mickle-plated Bedsteads.
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, nnd Brus-
sels Carpets in Newest Colourings and Designs.
Tj'ankets, Quilts, Hearth Eugs, Door Mats, Dinner
Services, Chamber Ware.
Kitchen Requisites, &c , &c.
The Only Address is
355 and 365 a Pitt-*treet,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
awarded three prize medals
FOR DURABILITY.
R3ssso]
EKs
SMeORFS
SSKNCEopUFK
f|he only infallible remedy for
?|/iEl\Vblfs jDEBILIJYT
THERE are many men in this colony who are.
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
Durden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy tram through years of suffering
rendering bis existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous-in thl
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally
He inured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeles> invalid If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which wilMn the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Life. 1
This vaiuabie remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
Drostmtfen aCIt J aDd de »eneracy, total and partial
Pr ration and every other exhaustive dorange-
, the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en
TkS? fulfll his most saered obligations.
d i rec y9 ns are very simple, and require no
£s®* hln , drance from business. Pamphlets
epolosed in each case with testimonials.
if hv C^ S Q eS i. at o l3^!, or four Quantities in one, for 36s •
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free. ’
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
vate e i S^ cked ss °urely, and free from obser-
ofNoVs e U4r^ par A the c ?, lo uy on receipt
PoBtage Stamps *
fkuit p C ill! l^/ t positivel y by mooxtox'-s
2 can Prove what w?«!S not merely relieved > and
VoTTf^JFJ are no fai,ur es and no
pl^ lL Wnes« M ° UI;T ° N £ f RUIT PILLS also cure
£ PS U< Promote 1 r)iaKSTT^° NS r IPA ? OIV and DYS -
-3% eatinj? re heve distress from too
‘tjfflulate tlic" r n?i7?> cfc DISORDERS of the STOMACH
S 1 ® BLOOD Ll The’n? gUlatB the B °WBLS, and PURIFY
rw D - P ur elv Cri lT 31 , and Best Family Medicine
T uey are as neariv n«tf b ! ( ™ ade of the Extract of Fruit),
Sml.i tJ P feot as Jt 13 Possible for a Pill to be,
Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
0. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
lONIC NERVIMF
AKrf : offinATw'"JiSS, 10 nervine.”
VouaJinH **J-AIN, & SPEEDY CORE lor Ner.
mj® l spring from and complaint!
Joothache, of ner^ e force, as Neuralgia,
Pemail tw S h In *ipBtlon, Loss of
n? m Dlaints rj!r” Disorders, Liver and Kidney
£° od . Prematuro 08t r atlon ’ * f^Poveristaod
By i te Decline, Loss of Vital Power.
ln»? v ' s all cravmS^ d 80 ?] thln B' efTecta It at once
Sh e ? t 3. MARBHA l TT C 4 llo^^P,werful vitalising ele-
and giv^ A^’ B PONIC NERVINB nour-
p2®®» 6d or *• whole system.
PAUL LIE BE
\{ichlv Recommended
aculiyl
EBIU
ivpyo
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARE ;
REACTED. AT AIL CHEMISTS IM f
106* 20 02 BOTTLES
0 ARNOLD ©BRIDGE S t ;
mS\
ť
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
iny general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, I'heu-
niatism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all DPlggists; price $l, six bottles
for $5.
. mitf’ 5‘epl: i~
' 70' .‘ h“_ - o ' -_ ’
' < ~ (
4&4»
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold every where. Always reliable. 1
ELLIOTT BEOS. and 8. HOFPNUNQ & CO..
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 EiPEEI MS!
PACKED in and INSURED against
|3#“ Carriage paid by mail all
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
over the colonies
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALB.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
* Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nice'y trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£S MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
5 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
si Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. ii
stamps, we send, pos
free, a pair of 3 or 4
button kid or silk Glove*
any size or colour, gooc
quality and fashionable
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
NursiDg Stays for ten
gainings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c—with
price 1, and fill! instruction for self-measurement.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney*
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Bra per y
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens,'and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, a"d can
now be also had in a goldeD colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons, Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ XAL7DOB is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands and arms, and is perfects free from anv
mineral or meta'Ho admixtures; it disperses
freckles, taD, prickly heat, redners, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRB
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask aDy dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, ot „0 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney. ±JROS '*
A. & G. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmead & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEBT MUSIC AT HALF PRICE.
BELTS.
CURATIVE
elect jric ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
la obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never- failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
!?r r ££!l, Byatem by '"earing- the MaGNETTCAL
TETP^RwYT APPL l ANCE r>S 0 - S £ enuine ELEC-
a Restorer of impaired vitality and
tailiDg- health. It is an unvarylnsr auccess in the
cure an- alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion.
w 8 Seiatiea.Parafysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and tue baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
tne body of the all-pervading element of ltfe-
electmiry. Tnis mode of treatment is by far the
most pei feet and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
Doay tne continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
Rut to avoid any disappointment by their possible
ioss of eketric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
* e u/M- r ? 8 this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’B ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climHtes, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed. 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators tor the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency!
price 203. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps.
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10«. Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism 4s. 6d. per pair. Send siz** of boot#
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney. All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD ft CO.,
158 Pltt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETOES FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.-Leaders, Telegrams.
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. Beta,” Bulletin Office.
SOMETECIKTGr NEW
I
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
■
WM&
TOOTH BRUSH.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip.
tion of these new inventions
„ Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Electric
Association.
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to tllis, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetio
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not affected by acids,
impervious to
moisture, and fi*ee
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour
TH3J
PALL MALL
Electric
ASSOC/A T/OJV
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler. It
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonizcd handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electrio
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary orimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex can use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
Loinxnr, Ettp.t.an d.
Dr. Scott, New York.
Your “ Crimper and Curler 1
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration
They are most simple to use I
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement ot the
h. LANGTRY.
Carlton Club. Lownow "w
Dr Scott's ■■ Electric Curler” curls the Moustache
uul Beard most perfectly. My wife uses thpm ir»
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. I).W G,
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in a.
terms as to the quick benefits toSowdng the u?e rf Dr
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry deelare it l
o mVeUtIQII ** den,fU *K’ liances siace the
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
Health ensured by using
Dr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes
or Insoles,
I
S/Si
S\7
c* eet
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott bear this label,
BEWAHE 03?
"WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s, 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittance* can be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or ourrenoy, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
B 4 Hargeret’Streaf,’ Sydney.
p.o, box, m.


PHILANTHROPIC PRISONS.
tfhe humane and gentle spirit of the pres-
ent age ia nowhere so visible as in the improved
treatment of prisoners. A century ago scores of
human beings lived like toads in a rock in the dis-
iiial dungeons of thB Bastile. By degrees, how-
ever, it became to be dimly understood— largely
through the efforts of Howard and other philan-
thropists—that prisoners were constituted of flesh
and blood, and might reasonably be allowed, in a
liihited degree, some of the privileges of caged
Wild beasts. The outcome of this feeling was, of
course* that as time went on persons in gaol began
to enjoy a certain measure of comfort in their
lives. It was left, however, for the Comptroller-
General of Prisons in N.S.W.—the colony that has
in its time passed through the darkest phases of
prison discipline—to double this measure of com-
fort, and throw in a dash of luxury. A new
gaol has been erected at Trial Bay. The prisoners
to be sent there will all be long sentence men.
Many of them have families. In this fact
the Comptroller-General finds his opportunity.
He suggests that the wives and children
of the married men among them—that is the
married men who have behaved thems Ives well
since their conviction—"shall be permitted to
reside in the vicinity of the gaol, and have inter-
course with their relatives ” How this Idea would
work In the case of a man who had been sent to
gaol for wife-beating, might be Interesting to
know. It would be also interesting to know if
married prisoners would have suites of cells
granted them in order to discharge the hospitali-
ties of their position with due dignity and eclat.
The leading daily paper of Sydney says—‘‘lt is
believed that this concession would have a bene-
ficial effect upon both the prisoners and their
families. It is alleged that the latter are not only,
to all Intents and purposes, made widows and
orphans by the actions of the courts in sentencing
the criminals to long periods of imprisonment!
but that also in consequence of the stigma which
is attached to them because of their relatives’
offences, they are impelled into wrong courses.
And the idea appears to be that this evil might be
remedied by the suggested plan.”
• • •
It is a brilliant conception. The burglar,
the garotter, and the homicide, under this benefi-
cent regime, will be able to look forward through
the dreary hours of the day to the quiet evening
spent In the bosom of their families. Let us try
to make an imaginary sketch of such a meeting.
* * *
goenei Celt, in Trial Bay Prison.
Time: Evening.
Dramatis Personce: Smashlock (a Burglar); Maria
(his wife), Five Children. Gaol Chaplain.
CHAPLAIN (rising to go): Now, Smashlock, I will
leave you to your good wife and your dear iittio
Children. I am rejoiced to have found you in such
a pious and humble frame of mind. Thorny is
the way and narrow Is the path. Hemember that
always. Goes off murmuring! Thorny the way,
harrow the path.
Prisoner: Now that blinded ole fool’s gone,
Mariar, p’r’ap3 you’ll chuck us out some o’ that
terbacky I told you to git larst time you was here.
MAria: Here it is, Bill—’arf a pound. I brought
it in me bussell!
Bill (admiringly)! You’re a wonner, Mariarl
But ain’t yer got nothin’ else ?
Maria (coquettishly): Well, if yer are so press-
ing, Bill. Iliev got somethin’ else; I know yer
won’t like it, though—oh, dear, no; yer won’t
look at it.”
Maria here produces from some secret part of
her attire a flat bottle containing about a pint of a
garnet-coloured liquid. Bill, with a blissful sigh,
stretches out his hand for It, and says, “ Rum I ”
They each have a pull at it, and then Bil) hides
the bottle under a stone in the floor of his cell,
Where he also places the tobacco. A warder enters
at this moment, but seeing what the prisoner is
engaged at, mutters, “ Bag pardon; hope I haven't
disturbed you,” and goes out.
Hill: This is all gammon, hidin’ these things
under this blamed stone. The Controler-Genral,
he knows all about the terbacky and the liquor, !
only he's waitin’ till he can git the Parlyment to
pass a Hact to have the cells of pore prisners fur-
nished. Then we kin keep our liquors la a proper
Bhitfoueer and our terbacky In jars like other
gents. P raps us married men might be allowed
planners as well.
Jim (the eldest boy): By dad, won’t that
be fun? We will hev a gorjus time.
Prisoner looks at him musingly and murmurs t
• He growia’ too big fer gittin’ thru wlnderpaaes!
I’ve a blinded good mind to make an honest man of
him— eddicatehimforalavyer, p'r’aps.” (Chuckles
grimly.)
Jim (with eager pride): I stjle a watch from a
drunk and run off with a wheelb *rrer last week,
and next week me and Sam Gropes is goin’ to stick
up a bank.
Prisoner (with emotion): Oh, the enthoosyaz-
iem of yewth! I wos that way once ere these old
eyes grew too dim to tell a reel diming pin from a
paste one, and these old ’anda too shaky to slip it
but of a case without a rattle. Beware of the bole,
Jimmy— beware of the flowin’ bole.
Lifts up the stone, and takes another pull at the
flat bottle. Tnea straightens his countenance,
and says, “Now about business, Mariar-here's a
drorin’ of Hoolaghan's joolery establishment.
It’ll do for Pete and his mate whenever they want
to crack the crib. I made it for my own use jist
before I got sent up, but I hadn’t time to make no
use of it. You can tell Baa Riley, too, that I'll
make a chance of seein’ Bob and some of the
others in here and git all he wants to kno w out o’
them. I can do it in chapel on Sunday most likely.
And now it’s about time for you to go. Keep dark
about the plant, and play the destitoot grass
widder and five orflns game—and come round as
usual to-morrer-and say yer prayers raglerly—
and don’t forgit the rum. Adoo, my pretty inner-
cent lambs 1
Kisses his five children, with tears, and the cur-
tain falls.
* * *
This may be a fancy sketch, but it is not
by any means far-fetched, If prisoners can have
board and lodging for nothing, and their wives to
bring them little comforts, who is going to stay
out of gaol ? Prison-life will simply be a pro-
longed picnic under such circumstances; and the
children of prisoners, instead of b9ing prevented
from diving into evil courses by the sight of their
parents in prison, will be incited to get in there
themselves at the first opportunity. The Comp-
troller-General appears to cherish a secret desire
to bring the greater part of the population under
his control.
At the recent Sessions in Bathurst, a man
named Alfred Muggleton was convicted of sheep-
stealing and sent up for three years. The next
offender, Thomas Byan, convicted of inflicting
grievous bodily harm, was sent up for three
months. From these sentences it is clear that
property in sheep is just twelve times as valuable
as property in human life and limb. As mutton
is now worth 61. a pound, the value of a man may
be estimated oy multiplying his nett weight in
pounds by a half-penny. It would not do to apply
the same rule in ascertaining the value of a Judge.
There is a unique clock in the Berlin Pan-
opticon, the work of a Brunswick mechanician,
wno has probably been stoned to death before
this time. It sounds simultaneous alarums in half-
a-dozen different bedrooms, lights a spirit lamp,
boils coffee to a musical accompaniment, and then
intimatts in a triumphal march that the coffee Is
ready. It strikes the quarters, half-hours, and
houts, repeats, and indicates the day of the week
and month, with due allowance for leap-year.
Lastly, it gives 34 hours’ notice, like Tristram
Shandy’s mother, when the time for winding-up
is approaching.
A new gambling game has been developed
up North. It is called “slew” to distinguish it
from ioo, and is played with a handkerchief, two
tumblers, and a decanter of rum. Any number
can play at once, and the method is peculiarly
simple. A shilling is staked by each player to
make a pool, and a nobbier of rum poured into
one of each man's glasses. This is strained
through the nandkerchlef into the other tumbler,
and the man who holds the greatest nuuber of
bluestone lumps in his strainer is adjudged the
winner and scoops the pool. The lowest record in
PROVERBIAL PHILOSOPHY.
(BY OUR OWN JOSH BILLINGS.)
NEVER HOLLO TILL U'VE CHOPPED ALL THE WO OLD; U MITE HIT THE KLOSE-
LINE BEFOR U’RE DUN.
a recently-playel game, as reported to us, was
three, and tne winner declared with 18. The game
bids fair to supersede Yankee grab entirely. It is
more exciting.
The country newspapers may not be re-
markably witty, but they get along somehow, and
frequently, without meaning any harm, set the
people wnere they circulate laugning till their
sides ache. One of the local papers in Inglewood
(Vie.), ia a column where news gets occasionally
mingled with advertising matter, lately had the
following:- 4 ' Alice Goodwin has been appointed
acting-Registrar of Births and Deaths at Ingle-
wooa duiiog the absence of J. M. M. Goodwin.
44 ‘One blast upon his bugle horn
Were worth a thousand men.” ’
"When we read that we felt for Inglewood, and for
the sympathetic individual who so beautifully
mourned the absence of the town trumpeter. The
difficulty was, however, exolained when we read
on— 44 and so one bottle of Fox’s Schnapps is worth,
etc., etc.”
No wonder that military service in the
regular forces is unpopular in England, when,
from a recent Blue Book, it appears that last year
no less than 12 493 solun-rs were tried by court-
martial, and all were found guilty and punished.
That is to say, about one soldier in every ten in
the British army was punished by a kind of Irrt-
snonsibie triijunal, which has power to inflicc
death or penal servitude. From tne court-martial
«* prisoner has practically no appeal; lur, though
he has the right to appeal, it is at the risk of hav-
ing bis sentence, already perhaps UDjust and
excessive, added to in case his appeal fail. Now,
should’nt this little item for thinking over make
us mad and hungry to have a real standing army
on the British plan established here? Flogging is
abolished in the British army now, it is true, but
here there would be a fine chance to introduce it
for the 44 soldiers’ own good.”
The Harmy in Melbourne is beginning to
have the pious pollan taken off its reputation.
Only last week the Rev. Howler Dowie dragged a
swindler who had diddled him out of £3OO from
the heart ot the barracks. A tew days ago a Ger-
man named Remsoheli or Ramshackle, a lieu-
tenant in the Army and one ot ns most prominent
members, was arrested for a burglary at the shop
where he was employed. This particular follower
of blood and fire was an exceedingly cuts young
man, for, after having gone in the night previous
and borrowed a considerable number of things, he
met an enterprising reporter of the Herald who
wanted to work up the horror, and supplied him
with full particulars. He was not supposed to
sleep on the premises, or doubtless we would have
heard about the “gallant resistance by an officer
of the Salvation Army’’ in large caps. Six months’
free housing will be his reward.
The Archbishop of Canterbury recently
entertained a number of his friends at luncheon
in a public-house at Croydon. He was subse-
quently picnicked there in return. The report of
the proceedings does not state that his Grace won
anything at euchre, nor scored any floorers at the
religious game of skittles; nor does it contain any
allusions to dead marines or churchwardens, black
shag, or soda and B.; but we doubt not
the nead and tail of the Church militant en-
joyed tnemselves. We are now expecting invita-
tions from Bishop Barry to a soiree at the Dog
and Duck, and will probably attend the Cardinal s
banquet at the White Horse. Latter day religion
is eminently practical and pleasant to take—the
days of hair shirts, scourging, and fasting have
gone by, and wine and pretty waiting-maids,
Henry Clays, and rough-cut ruby may be looked
upon as a much nicer way of mortifying tne flesh.
One of the edifying recreations of Mother
Church, prior to the occupation of Rome by the
Italians, was the so-called “death-drama” per
formed annually on All Saints’ Day at the Campo
Santo, or cemetery. In the course of this cheer-
ful exhioition, all the wealth ot skulls, ribs, thigh-
bones, &c , In stock, was wont to be trotted out,
and skeletons, compounded on “scratch,” prin-
ciples mixed freely with the living actors. The
Church authorities, after 15 years’ suspension of
their histrionic powers, seem to have become
reconciled to the intrusion of the ungodly, and
la9t year resumed the highly moral and instructive
celebration. The play billed was “Ezekiel’s
Vision,” and the dry bones, after their long rest of
a decade and a half, had as gay an old time of it
as ever before. Infamous to relate, however,
some profane organs of public opinions had the
bad taste to protest against the revival, as a
desecration of the resting-place of the dead.
Journalists, rise up and yell. The Queen
of England and Empress of India, our gracious
sovereign lady Queen Victoria, is related to a
member of the Fourth Estate. It is on this wise:
A reporter died recently at St. Louis, U.S.; he was
a diligent though unassuming member of the
craft, and ever dignified and courteous. He
would borrow 2s 6d. from the greatest stranger;
the greater the stranger the more gladly would he
float the loan. At the funeral it transpired that
he was a younger son of the Leiningen Wester-
burg family, a German house, which before the
Congress of Vienna, stood high among the
Sovereign princes of Europe. Oae of the members
of this family, a Countess Alt LeiniDgen Wester-
burg, had a daughter. This daughter became the
Queen’s mother, the Duchesi of Kent. So the
young man who does the inquests for the echo,
may lay claim to connection with the Royal
Family. That’s how Heaton managed It.
The case of Regina v. Ashwell has been
altogether too much for the English Bar. Ash-
well, it will be remembered, asked a friend named
Keogh to lend him a shilling. In the dark, Keogh
gave him a sovereign, and Ashwell took it away
without noticing the error. Ashwell was tried
and found guilty of fraudulent appropriation,
but a point was reserved as to whether the ad-
mitted facts of the case constituted a crime. The
point was argued before five judges in April last,
and as the question was too much for them it was
re-argued, before 14 judges in December last.
After extended argument, and much cogitation,
the judges divided equally on tne soul-stirring
question, seven to seven. Ths easiest solution
would now he obtained by Bkjing the unerriDg
copper, otherwise Mr. Ashwell may never know
whether he is guilty or uot. As he finished his
sentence wome time ago, it is not likely that he
will feel more than an ordinary amount of interest
in the question which has baffled the whole
Bench.
Lines on our Cook.
(By A SURVEYOR.)
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
James Forest was a soldier stout
Who fought at Alma heights,
Partly for his country’s cash
And partly for tier rights.
No crutch he owns to swing around
And show how fields are won;
He takes instead the staff of life
And bakes it till it’s done.
Yet one most useful art to him
Alas I has ne’er been taught.
Though he's been making bread so lona
He cannot make it short. y
Of aiming with the deadly tube
He vows he’s had enough,
And henceforth aims at nothing else
But excellence in duff.
His comrades in the battle field
Grow yearly less and less,
Yet he alone contrives to make
A more extensive mess.
The puffs of rising smoke that meant
The buratiog cannonade
Are now exchanged for pastry puffs
That burst with marmalade.
But fancy bred from fancy bread
Is but a fleeting thing;
And whiffs from yonder steaming stove
Are whiffs I cannot siDg.
So, James, farewell I and may thy soul
Its <sue reward be given,
And, seated on a rising loaf,
Be borne aloft to Heaven.
Melbourne.
T. J. DENNY.
Move On
“ The removal of the Burke and Wills’
monument is being rapidly proceeded with"
Age.
Burke, Awakening:
“ Well, Wills, it has come, as I thought it would-
the day when we must 4 move on,’
We are cumberers now of the useful earth, and
the fiat goes forth, 4 Begone 1’ a
I had thought in the earlier days we held a right
to this land, in fee,
But Time, in his ceaseless, onward march, cares
little for you and me;
Yet not ours is it now to make oomplaint or
lament that we needs must go,
Though ’twere kind, metninks, to have left us
here for the sake of that long ago
When we fell on the parched and burning ground
and despairing and hopeless died, ’
Giving life, our all, for Australia’s cause in our
march o’er her deserts wide
We are here where they placed us long ago, and
to-morrow will be elsewhere,
But our names still live in the minds of men-
what need have we then to care ?
Were we borne from the stone and dragged awav
and hurled in the silent sea,
Still our names are ’graved on the people’s
hearts, our place is in memory.”
WILLS:
“ Aye, Captain, you speak in a hasty mood, your's
ne’er was the calmest mind;
Well, we gave our lives for the country’s good,
in those days long left behind,
Should we now complain that the giant strides
of advancement move us on ?
Shall we rather not in consistent mood be the
first to say 4 Well done ?’
Let us murmur not of ingratitude, nor think of
the bygone past,
We died, what matter? sure, death must come
to us, every one, first or last;
In the people’s hearts we have scill our place, let
them move us where they may,
Our motto in life was 4 Onward still,’ and in death
shall we bar the way ?
Let us go, we shall ne’er awaken more—gaze
again on the scene we love,
A patriot’s spirit untroubled is when ’tis Pro-
gress bids him move.”
BOTU:
“ We are moving at the summons of the mighty
monarch, Time,
Who with gentlest hand is noting down the
annals or your clime;
You have ’waked us from our slumbers once
again to gaze upon
The rand for which we perished, and which bids
us now ‘ move on
And our spirits still rejoicing at its wealth-its
dearth of ills—
Murmur still 4 Advance Australia, and remember
Burke and Wills.’ ”
Balaklava, Victoria.
J. A.
When purchasing Schnapps specify
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as it is the only genuine
Schnapps,
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpitation and
low spirits, rely on Hop hitters. Good made by
American Co. Notice
All persons who have tasted Wolfe’s
Schnapps unadulterated fully appreciate its
superior qualities.
It was a furious and profane drover. His
nosa was red with sun of many days, and
snake-juice of many nights, and the curses he cast
arouna volleyed through the air with a humming
noise like unto the swarming of a hive of bees.
“Talk about justice,” he howled, “when a
drover’s oath is not respected. Didn’t I swear
that I only promised to pay the hands a note, and
yet Mr. Jumped-up Storekeeper Beak gave a ver-
dict for 25 bob to the whole 10 of them, with costs,
too. Twenty, aye, 10 years ago, my oath was
worth a dray-load of cooks. And now they put
storekeepers and things on the bench—men who
never faked a brand, nor don’t know the meaning
of duffing. I’ll drove no more. I’ll go back
among.the mountains where an alibi only costs six
nobblers. Fill ’em up again, Missus Publichouse.”
He was lumbered that night, anil when fined 10
bob on the morrow he did not try to relieve his
feelings with profanity. His mingled emotions
were of such intensity that bushels of blasphemy
would have been of no avail. Tnere are some
griefs beyond the power of profanity to assuage. Z
Custom House Hotel, Maryborough, Q.
Gentlemen,—One application of St. Jacob’s Oil,
well rubbed in, cured me of a severe attack of
rheumatics in the right shoulder and arm. On a
former occasion an application of this valuable
oil cured me of a similar attack in the hand. I
know of many instances of cures being effected
by this remedy where otheis have failed. One was
the case of a fireman on board one of the A.S.N.
Company’s steamers on the Queensland Coast, who
got a severe strain in his side through lifting a
heavy mass of coal. I happpened to have a bottle
of at. oacab s Oil in my portmanteau (in fact I
never travel without it), and got permission to
apply it, with the result tnat the man was able to
resume his work next day. You can make any
use of this testimonial you please.—Yours truly,
J. J. PORTER,
Queensland representative of Messrs. W,
Gardiner and Co., Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Here is Hummer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon J
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Ltthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
derated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe’s Schnapps.


Id A M M
MAM
B STOUT.—This favourite bran®
best o/tK selected with great care from to«
Arthur Oi^„^ rewin * s of the celebrated firm of
cannot be a-^? 8 J and Co., Dublin, and therefore
Caxtsx.j®*^® 4, To be procured ererywhor*.
- _ * OO Bole AgentD.
SPECIAL notice.
D tJEIf, Q current month,
and
PRIOR to THE ARRIVAL
a I j TUMN SHIPMENTS, EXPECTED
U BE HERE ON OR ABOUT THE Ist of
_ MARCH,
vEAPES & SHAW
®'l! Sell the Balance
Their Summer Stock
at
Neatly Reducsi Prices.
®Pe°* e^ Uc^ons in Trimmed Millinery
Gooc? edllCtiona in Untrimmed Straw
deductions in Children’s Costumes
taiug^ e<^ Uet ' ioils * n daoe and Muslin Cur-
in Summer Dress Mate
LOnu ?! AI) IES SHOULD TRY OUR SUPERIOR
Pod r CLOT dS, SPECIALLY MANUF ACTURED
Trpv„ lEs ’AND CHILDREN’S WEAR, NINE-
«*2§ U ™ os
and SIXPENCE the PIECE
yards each.
Umbrellas,
E^-RGIrESr,
* CHOICEST.
and
the
CHOICEST,
and
CHEAPEST
STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Jikm h shiw,
.. '> 326, 328 Geokge-stbeet.
saw vaseline.
B
•:
i
5^
As a Preserving Horses’ Hoofs,
yentg and prevents their growth.
From j? lt is Invaluable—pre-
&etal Ahtwi I ®* and renders It waterproof.
E irearnf o ° te cto> ol ' ros4 ve qualities, uneqalled as a
bBed r,,,, ’ Ma e y.’, a, D.d for keeping in perfect order
abni? os » &c - It is the sole material
® e eDBH? hrinw Ve i purposes in the Austrian and
rs. a. g oid by all saddierg and Store-
m » SOLE AGENTS :
& CO.,
Us v 6ADI)LERS ’ IRONMONGERS,
._J^°* , R-street, Sydney.
IRING HATTERS
0 - STREEP
HtoPnirt" D N tV
SHAPES;-
T, STALLAGE,
' l *QFQtlf/'n e very description of
j. fr’ Lm , Mercantile and
Zr+*Z%& Stationery.
A *OA I > I *“i?MSL ta * B r *«* lT ® s *»*
®*o»Gi §*„ m BTSMIT
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
m
tfvzmgg
BASS PALS ALBA
The BUST ALB and STOUT inthe Markat
■OLD BT ALL STOKBKBIPBBS AND WINB ?
MKRCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
V. Balchin, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
«SBr
npHE REMINGTON TYPEWRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY. EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
t3T* THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER sawB
labour, stationery* and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time,
gold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO.,
86 Clarence-street,
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED ur ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund...
........ *300,000
..,,,,..<155,000
Diaicroßfii
The Hon. Six John Hay, K.C.M.G., Gfaalru %n.
Hon. Henry Morfc, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors;
Jas. Scrogrgrle, Beq-
H. B. Cohen, Esq.
G4N3BAL Manager:
r. A. A. Wilson.
Sborstabt:
Hector Allen.
Branches in Nhw South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyng> n,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane,
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Mnfm
cial Agency Businessofi the most favourableterms
Bills discourfted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming Tboquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity; full and crisp.”
TRAPP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
DK. BOYD,
68 CASTLERE A GH-BTREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m, to 4 p,m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases ft
Specialty.
BwciaOG.F.O.
ŧ
Barry's Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from failing out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnungg and Co.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—lloo,ooo with power to increase to X 1,000,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually sinoe 1873.
1
• t t
Head Oftices.
First Fire Society established in me colony on
the Mutual principle, (riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager
Head Offlees-PITT and KIN© STREETS.
&
w
9
PAPERS
Office: 330 Gaergge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
IST N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
Sulphoßine
Lotiisii,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,!Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s. 8d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
HKALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY.
TONIC
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH !
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c., Is a remedy for Neuralgia. Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 1.6 doses (new size):
larger bottles, 32 doses. Sold everywhere. Insist
on having Pepper’s. Made solely by J. PEPPER
Co., London. Specially suitable for the colonies.
SD'LPHUE
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour iu a few applications.
Larjre Bottles. Is. 6d. Made in London.
«
y..
' AV*
ky kp
* A-
/.A'
$
Sr
0
rw
# .S^W'
'Y jf' V A
>V*Vv V
«r
k ///, ’//
V- V X
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents*
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPMODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous n- edicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stoipach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents—Ellioxx Bros,
Vti 001 Nl v
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBT & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOBEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
U-M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BCTSSY A CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases,
kinds of Sportsmen’s
All Goods will be Fs
Sydney,
Where Inspection Is invited.
T
HE FRESH
FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AS
K©. 323 iinyai Hread©?
i
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, Ac., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
"KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Offloe.. .. 81 Harbour-street
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
Central Dispensary,
S 3 HAEKBT fcTSEKr,
Two doors from Evening JUteiOs Office
(Opposite Farmer's).
T. JONES & CO.,
Ph. C., M.P.S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only,
at Reform Prices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, Tram Terminus, Sydney,
and Suva, rlji.
Orders sent by post promptly executed.
Medicines forwarded to any part of the colonics,
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) can
be sent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
SB
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AMD
BARTHSNWABI,
WINES, BEERS, AJTD SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONB'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVINand SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
iJ§sIJ'' 1J ''
Ingham’s
l -
kg HUEENSLAND CURE
Bronchitis 2
Oougms
-fIEWSEIS&QIESiSffi*
M,' PREPARED' ONLY BY > ■
Thomas Ingham
« Rockhampton
JsliylS!i^4»


oP
IMP
Soc
ELL
o
' m
'25?“-
BONA-FIDE REDUCTION
339 & 34i George SLSydneV
ANO AT
iMIBoiMKEIS’i E i Melbourne.
z
£
1
s.
*
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, , DRINK IT I
At ail Druggists and Chemists,
drink 111
dbinK J* 1
dkin* I 1
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
T
FEY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘ An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lanobt.
IDR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
S-STIDItsriETZ-, IET-S/W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery,<nnd registered by
' the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., -whose
life-long experience, practical’method of treat-
ment, and pnre medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR, O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence, 1
producing some of the following effects;—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of :
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
__ treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR J. O COSTNELL,
52 Castlereagli Street (ground floor), s
m
SB**
*P
iH
Ml
W/W/rn.
mmmM
Wh
m
mm
m
m
ZE3@Ua.'tel@
i
->
grg'ieS 1
FROCURABLB ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE * MACHINERY REPOSITtW
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. ,
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETt!
California and Eastern Buokboard Wapon-i.
MT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK'
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Inspci
S 3 & 34i Clarence-street. Sydney (near Petty*? Hotel.!
Bobbbt butoheb * 0,0.
(Late William Long),
wr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, BYDNET
Country Order# receive nroroot attention.
GOOLALTA HP
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX •
CELLARS and BODEGA, t
354 G*©orfge-etr$ 0
<Beneath Palinjr’a.) -M
Kdut G & SPANGENBERG PIANOS.
ZtEITZ LFIFZJG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PR-ZE M i i'f lIRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-elass Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
bp on application to the appointed agency,
G. J. WEJQLS,
i. Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom may be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all Kinds of German makers,
Lords.
THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms,
IT. J. WELLS,
1 ItaUigvsSrael,
WALLACH BROS.
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
J
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and Xiondon.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
ALLACH BROTHERS
AFTER GEFORE
WF*
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISEESS.
■Eoycf’a Heard Elixir did this, and
will do on either bald head or
bare face, f'otcea heavy Mone-
tae tit in from 3 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
BEFOnS after
3> fanw (*»
As SkAii
Copyrighted,
Packets 1«. 6 d.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied* certain in effect.
each, 3 for 3*. (id., post paid sent under cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Ouuglad, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney, NM. W>
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
XT’ rj.d.exta,&ex,
*4 HUNTER <& PHILLIP ttTRBBTff* ’
FUNERALS fcBATLT EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) y
Manager for over ten (10) years.
years;
BLAKE'S IBPROV
STEAM PUl£P^
H. P. GREGORY I $
17 PITT STRESS*
SYDNEY,
, ffi
ARB SOLE AGEiVTS FOR TB® A
»nd have hi Stock *ad to wnrtT* - '
FIRB PUMPS
JBOVLER-FEED PUIfPS *
TAJNK OR LIGHT S ERVICE
MINING PUMPS A
C ,OMBINED AIR & CIR CULATING
Tannery pumps
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS'
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING 1 PUMPS
83ND FOR PRIORS AND ALL
„/i
CATALOGUES FORWARDER p j
LATB ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
PSanufacturer of all kSads of /Erafed Watters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of VSgorlad*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Cctcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go fa Medal for /Erafed and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Modal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
&c<
