

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
sdf
K~;
have all the pleasure in the world in wishing their friends and patrons in Town and Country,
their supporters in Sydney and its Suburbs, and everyone everywhere, everything that
conduces to and goes to make
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAY MARKET ONLY,
TEEIE O£T3L"Sr UNIVEESiiL SSPZKOTTIIDEieS
In tliCoC latitudes. The Blest Popular Drapers in Australia.
Many a trade, hundreds of industries,, and many a calling are invoked to keep
Grigautic
011 the move, for where the Coach is Big the road must needs be Wide. Our system of business is well known. We leave
110 part of the Manufacturing World unvisited; we buy all goods on the very best terms, and our selling prices are
OUR ONLY ADDRES3:
Anthony Hordern l Sons, Palace Emporium, Qnymarket only
CLOSE TO THE BAILWAY STATION.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
HT Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVK.” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Far.
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD HOPES, 8 & 9 Hacquarlo Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application
<6
y
Genuine
C V
Economical
Coco?i
Makers to the Q
3'
'/> ,4V 1/ a
m k
lit if
Jtl L .
MJ
v i ».
V: I
U- V
fi K , MMls.vj ?v' ~ui)9iSft»k>
if i
it
>......
> :
Mmam
IT VJ
■'W
Mu*
•/ 'sYw-Sim
n to k*?w£ . •• :~v
I ’ Mi ',l
w IVT ’
-•vd-V 51 *
Uff
1 -f i r,/ .
i&ST
• ‘''''tSKrtretari
>T
.r.nfeS;;
Bray <S& 1j iclitner,
24 O’Conaell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
%
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS. BALLS, PICNICS. AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCHOTT «§& CO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY IHE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Pakis, and Brussels.
LARGEST STOCK IN TEE COLOHES
KEESHANS
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING BTKEET, BYDNEY.
HIS Hotel to centrally situated, being close to Post and Teleprraph Office, Theatre, Tramway &o
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
e most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
B £a/u.xici.€i'ia.xi.,
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
oar LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LA UES ADD GENTLEMEN,
ROBERTS, IMM u| SO,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
lEEE, mm, ail USEE! ÜBGUIB
Importers of
® N?X N ? 8 ; ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, nnACHBUILDER*’
MATERIALS, SQUATTBRB’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
Q * LVANIBED OORRO-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBKPO-
KATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PA INTB. and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
Y7QOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GEKY
ROLLED fl GIRDERS
—• —gS
BfifcCl'5
V .'.1,1
~s
-..m
LMr;,
""T
p : •
m
sfMp
' hi;r
|V~ Price Lints and Catalogues furnished on application.
PORTABLE,
and BEMI-FIX*P V
GINEB
VERTICAL and H° B1 ’
ZONTAL BOILBB 9
o'p
PLAIS
TEAM and
PUMPS
LATHES,
8H APING, BWffi
ING, and D &&&»
MACHINES
STEAM HAMMBB*
ENGINEERS’
FOUNDRY
PATENT
BHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, **
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse - - - - 54 YORK STREET.
Iron ani Implement Yard - - HAY AND ENGINE BTREETB,
Bulk Stores .... HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOO*
STDSTETi
London ones - - -f» «TR*«wr
Alex. Borthwick. -
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. Uias
2SI Q-eorgre-st.,
OFFORD & CO.’S HA I $
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, IJ.1 J .
Asiatic L'niment, 2j.
That Modern Appe iter—The Austra'im Itel Uh-l;
A. Soyer’s Baking Poxder (free from alum), 6J.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is msik.'S two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for c ughs. Is.
Clayt n’d Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums. la.
Dr. Barbarossa’a Canth r des and Eujs'au Be r's
Create Oil, for covering bald and pro
ducidg whlekeri*. 2 6d.
APPLY BOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 2CB and T6G PIl'T STREET.
V
tr
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
(■ ier/')&ni t/ie
X
LAND
AND
MARINI
ENGINES*
BOILERS
PUMPS.
MACHINERY.
LARGE STOCKS
with au
IWESTDESICNS
Highest finish
LOWEST COST!
cran* s
ANf
H 01
ENCIN^'
law*
MO*** 5 '
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, &C ‘
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEB!
SOLE "AGENT
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne:
22, KING STR£ eT<
D
may be eonsu'ti d on
Nervous Debility, Skin ana Dortagious
Medical Establishment, 203 Elizabeth®
near Bathurst-strcct.
Hours : !) till 10 daily.
d<
(1 i
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man
i Australia who has nassed the decrees 0‘ oft.r
London, 1864; Member of the JRoyal
Surgeons, London, 1603,
Cot


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —N0.142-Wtw Serial.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 1886.
Price—6d.
How to Meet the Deficit.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 1886.
On the accession to office of the Stuart
Government, the Public Treasury was found
to be overflowing. Previous Administra-
tions, by following the unwise policy @f
parting with the fee simple of the land, had
succeeded in creating a considerable sur-
plus. Whether, according to Sir H. Parkes,
the superficial area alienated during his
regime was less than that transferred dur-
ing his predecessors’ rule is now of little
moment. The surplus was the result of the
land sales. For an overplus so created men
deserve far more blame than praise. There
are many foolish ways of raising a revenue.
The most stupid of all is that of parting
with the land—the ultimate source of all
wealth—not alone to those who intend to
cultivate and occupy it, but to many who
have no such intentions. The statesman
who proudly points to a revenue so obtained
is in much the same position as the trader
who classes as legitimate profit the sum
obtained for a share in his business. The
present deficit in the colony’s balance-sheet
is due to the partial suspension of land-sales
combined with a reckless disregard of ex-
penditure, as exemplified notably in the
abortive Soudan expedition, the money for
which wild adventure might just as well
have been sunk in the sea.
- * *
At present, however, the question of para-
mount interest is that of the making good
the deficit of over a million sterling result-
ing from the causes we have named. In his
speech at Mudgee, the present Premier, Sir
J ohn Robertson, gave in his adhesion to a
method which, ho anticipated, would have
the effect of writing off nearly half the
aocount. It is a suggestive fact that the
method advocated by the Premier is the
very one which, during the consideration
of the Land Bill of 1884, he opposed with
persistent determination and a good deal of
vituperation. This, of oourse, maybe taken
to show that his knowledge is increasing—
that he is wiser to-day than he was yester-
day. But it may also mean that he takes
expediency rather than principle for his
guide—that, having no firm ground on which
to rest, he is blown about by each gust of
political doctrine, and, as Premier, defends
what, when in Opposition, he condemned.
Sudden conversions are always suspicious
More especially is this the case when the
change in opinion benefits the convert. Let
us examine Sir John's scheme—the scheme
be it remembered, that but a short time ago
he opposed with such ardour. He proposes
to raise half a million of money from the
squatters by allowing them compensation
for improvements, should their leases on
expiring be resumed by the State, or by
compelling the incoming tenant to allow a
similar set-off. For this concession he ex-
pects the pastoral lessees to be grateful to
the extent of half ttie deficit. In other
words, for the immediate supply of £500,000
he would grant a good many millions 15 or
20 yeans hence. This method resembles that
of the young prodigal who, to tide over pre-
sent needs, is willing to sacrifice the future.
New South Wales is the prodigal—the les-
sees the Jews. We believe that the squatters
would gladly advance to meet the Premier’s
overtures, and we have no doubt that, when
their leases fell in, it would be found that
most of their long term of occupancy had
been devoted to improvements which, if not
particularly useful, would be found gratify-
iagly expensive.
* • ■
A person secures a large extent of country
for sheep or cattle farming. He obtains an
indefeasible title for 20 years. To make the
most of his bargain, he is compelled to con-
serve water in tanks and dams, to lay down
superior grasses, put up fences, build
houses and stock-yards, and adopt other
measures for securing the greatest return
for his outlay. He is also obliged to keep
these works in constant repair if he would
make his occupanoy pay. All these things
he does with a far greater chance of reward
than the party of miners who club together
to sink an expensive shaft. For every
squatter who is unsuccessful, ten miners go
to the wall. Yet no one has, so far, pro-
posed to compensate miners for the aban-
doned shafts sunk. Anyone with faith and
resources can take up the forsaken claim
and start where the others left off. If dams.
THE HON. W. E. FORSTER.
tanks, or nutritious grasses promise to in-
crease the squatter’s wool return, they will
be constructed or laid down. To allow him
to make one fortune by such works during
his long tenancy, and permit him or his
heirs to make another by forced compensa-
tion at its termination, is surely the height
of unreason. Every day we see men leasing
ground for various terms, and erecting
thereon expensive buildings. They do this i
not because they expect compensation when
their tenure expires, but because they ex-
pect to reooup themselves during its cur-
roney. The more Sir John Robertson’s
proposalis examined the more objectionable
it appears. Rather than adopt it, it would
be better to double the period of tenure.
Indeed, it is not much to say that, if it does
not mean securing to the squatters ulii-
mately the fee-simple of their runs, it looks
uncommonly like it.
« ■ ■
It is to land and property we must look
for the real source of increased revenue—
the only safe ford through the slough in
which carelessness and incompetence have
landed us. It is doubtful whether, in any
country in the world, these great sources
pay anything like their fair share towards
the public expenditure. This is notoriously
the case in England and her dependencies.
It is scaroely a matter for surprise, consider-
ing that in Britain and her possessions the
law-makers have been, even up to the
present, the great holders of land and
property. There is no meaner chapter in
our national history than that telling of
how the British landlords shuffled out of
their liabilities. A little over 200 years ago,
at the time of the Restoration, about one-
half the revenue was derived from land
dues. The legislators—i.e. the landowners
gradually shifted their burdens on to the
shoulders of the Excise and Customs. They
afterwards engaged to pay into the Ex-
chequer 4s. in the pound on the true annual
value of their holdings. How have they
done it ? By reckoning as true annual value
the assessment made in Wilmam lll.’s
reign! At the present day they are paying
into the Treasury a little over one million a
year, when —taking the increased value of
land into account —it is estimated they
should yearly be paying forty millions. The
“ Financial Reform Almanao ” reckons that
from 1688 to 1884 they have, by non-pay
rnent of land tax, '‘cheated the country out
of the stupendous sum of £1,250,827,734.”
This scandalous fact will go far to condone
the fierce phillipic of a recent writer :
“ Of all modern aristocratic frauds this is the
greatest, and if there were a reformer in the
House of Commons worth his salt he would seize
the very first opportunity of bringing the Peers to
their senses by moviDg that the land-tax be levied
on true annual value. The Peers possess about
one-fifth of the national soil, yielding them nearly
twelve m illions sterling in rent. Of this huge sum
the four-shilling tax would relieve them of two
millions and two-fifths, and as their friendsj and
relations hold most of the remainder of the soil,
the forty millions would mostly come out of the
pockets of those who have so long benefited by the
original fraud. Were not the House of Commons
crammed with aristocrats and landowners, such a
palpable swindle would not be endured for a day.”
* * *
A good deal of the best land in New South
Wales has passed from the people for ever—
or, at least, until such time as George’s
teaching shall have taken a firm hold on the
community, and the resumption of the soil
becomes the question of the day. Some of
this ground was obtained by means which
will not bear close inspection. But whether
secured by means still considered legitimate
by the bulk of the people, although demon-
strably unfair, or by methods closely allied
to frauds, this land is daily increasing in
value. The increase of population and its
inevitable result—the opening up of fresh
country—are yearly adding to our stock of
drones, to that fortunate class who neither
toil nor spin, but sit idly by and see their
incomes swell as the struggle for existence
becomes keener among their less lucky, or
less astute, fellows. That all this increment
should have so long been allowed to find its
way into the pockets of those who never
earned it, while State financiers were puz-
zling their heads to make both ends meet,
shows how hard it is to induce men to leave
the old ruts of thought and prejudice and
take to the broad highway of common-sense.
It will be seen that we have avoided pressing
George’s unanswerable thesis—that no in-
dividual has or can have a right to exclu-
sive property in the soil. Granting that
such a claim can be legitimately sustained—
that a community, to the detriment of com-
munities still unborn, has the right to grant
to one of its members a part of the common
heritage of all—the unreasonableness of se-
curing to that member the whole of the in-
crement arising from the labours or the
wants of others, still remains the same. The
absurdity becomes all the more glaring
when it its remembered that many great
colonial landholders live abroad and con-
tribute nothing to the revenue of the
colony whioh foolishly permits them to in-
dulge in ostentatious luxury at her expense.
If in old countries the soil is naturally
looked to as one of the chief sources of
public income, how much stronger is the
argument in favour of such a source of
revenue in new countries where its value
increases by leaps and bounds—where the
wilderness of to-day is the township of to-
morrow ? Thus, in whatever light we view
it, whether for the purpose of permanent
revenue, or to clear off a temporary deficit,
a land-tax is the most equitable of all.
* * *
The arguments in support of a tax on
property, other than land, are almost as
(Conclusive. To these we will revert in
a future issue, meanwhile it is, per-
haps, as well to advert to a curious
proposal made by Mr. Morris— one of
the compilers of the Morris-Ranken report
on the public lands—for the purpose of
meeting the present deficit. Mr. Morris
himself admits that his scheme is but tem-
porary and tentative, so that, even if sound,
its application would be of slender practical
value. It is that the Government of New
Soutn Wales issue interconvertible legal-
tender notes to the required extent. When
these notes are presented at the Treasury in


sums of ££s or multiples of that sum, the
bearer is entitled, not to gold, but to a
Government debenture for the amount,
bearing interest at 4 per cent., and extend-
ing over five, seven, or as many years as the
Parliament may sanetion. Gold can only be
demanded on the expiration of tho time.
Mr. Morris naively says:—“ It will be per-
ceived that the notes issued by the Govern-
ment are equal in all respeots-to gold coin,
because they can at any moment be cou-
verted into bonds bearing interest payable
quarterly,” &c., &o. In other words, they
are equal to gold because you eauuot de-
mand gold for them. Suppose A and Bto
stand to each other in the relation of debtor
and creditor. B pays to A, who is about to
leave the colony, a “legal-tender, intercon-
vertible note ” for the (say) £lOO due. What
is Ato do with it? He does not require a
Government debenture —he wants cash, or
something which will be equivalent to cash
at hiß journey’s end. He may, of course, pay it
to some third person, but suppose he owes
nothing, and is unwilling to make any pur-
chases before starting ? Or suppose he pur-
chases £5 worth of goods, thinking to obtain
£95 cash change for his £lOO “interconver-
tible,” but receives, instead, the change in
other “interconvertibles?” Or suppose,
as a last resource, he presents his noteat
the Treasury and obtains a Government
bond, he will still have to convert that bond
into gold, probably at a los?. Again, a
Government contractor is paid in new
notes. He passe3 them to his men. They
have no desire for 4 per cent, bonds, but
have a wish for cash with which to purchase
goods or property in a neighbouring colony
where the note is not a legal tender. How
are they to obtain it without loss? The fact
is, no law could prevent the “interoonver-
tibles ” from sinking in value. This would
give an opening for speculators to buy the
notes below par either for the purpose of
converting them into debentures or of pay-
ing them into the Treasury in satisfaction
of Government claims. Thus, the Treasury
would soon have its notes on its hands again,
and be obliged to begin the same vicious
circle. How much simpler it would he for
the Government, in the first place, to issue
bonds bearing a certain interest, and re-
deemable in a certain period, and sell them
in the colony or elsewhere for what they
would fetch? Ingenuity may bo conceded
to Mr. Morris’ scheme, while public
benefit must certainly be denied it.
Time Payment.
A champion of the Establishment iu England ap-
peared recently as am earnest and eloquent advo-
cate of the system of time-payment,. It was Mr.
Bosworth Smith, who, troubled much at the
oroptet of severance between Church and State in
Eegland, wrote a series of letters to the Times
(subsequently published in a pamphlet), through
which he set forth his reasons why the present
connejtion should not be broken. Wo are here
concerned with but one of these—it is the follow-
ing “ The National Church has been the nursiDg
mother and the mainstay of hundreds of charit-
able institutions, such as the day school, the night
school, the ccal club, the clothing club, the lend-
ing library, the penny savings bank, the allotment
ground, the coffee tavern, the tomptranee
movement.” The Established Church in England
has been the nursing mother of all there, and*
therefore, as an established and endowed State
Church, it should be maintained. Would it sur-
prise Mr. Bosworth Smith, would it astound
the cultured editor of the Spectator, by
whom his arguments are accepted and am-
plified, to be told that all these things, by whoever
founded or nursed, are but meagre instalments
of the longest and least satisfactory time-payment
the world has ever seen—not fair Instalments of
coin, paid back for goods received, but miserable
moieties, paltry sops, wretched crumbs Hung to
long-suffering creditors, whose debts were their
chief birthright, and whose earliest lessons on
duty were to be humble and respectful to those
by whom themselves and their ancestors had been
robbed ? Doubtless it would, but as astonishment
is of no purpose, unless it lead to conviction, we
will endeavour to prove that which we have so
boldly asserted. And first, we may say that these
benefactors, each and all, oome under the head of
what, in the nineteenth century, bears the Dame
of charity—a something as far apart from the
quality which bore the name in the times when
Christian infiuonces were launched, as is the
present Pope of Rome, or Archbishop of Canter-
bury, or President of the W esleyan Conference
from the bonmm-cMotte of Nazareth or the Mar: yr
of Calvary. The coal club and the clothing club are
charity; the lending library, and the day-school
and night-school are charity; the allotment
ground is charity; each charity, all charity—charity
dribbled out in beggarly instalments for rights long
filched and dues long denied. And what rights?
Let us reckon. Let us begin at the beginning—
the coal club, the clothing club, and the allot-
ment ground—the means whereby fuel and rai-
ment and a place to live are to be painfully and
laboriously acquired, though beyond all the acres
they were freely given by God, and in aDy genera-
tion have been doubly earned by man.
* * *
Why is the coal or the clothing club required ?
The true and plain answer, that should make any
representative or champion of any Church as-
sumed to be based upon eternal justice blush with
shame, is that the hardest, most enduring, faithful
labour of any hind of any British country will net
win him suilioient wages to keep his hearthstone
warm at Christmas, or his wife and babes frem
shivering beneath tattered raiment or thread-bare
blankets, while the patron and minister of “the
Estab.ishment ” are puffed with fat capoa and
bloated with red wine and cloaked with costly
furs by day, and warm beneath eider down by
night. Why arc the day and the night school
needed ? Only because the right to education,
though earned, has never been paid, while the
foundations made for higher education have been
stolen. And wherefore the penny savings-
bank, and the coffee tavern, and the temper-
ance movement, but that the thrifty, careful,
self-denying habit may be acquired, whereby the
condition of unrequited servitude is made toler-
able, and the unrest born of wrongs that goad
and sting and pinch and starve is stifled or sub-
dued? And last, and most important of all, where-
fore the allotment ground; but in most miserably
inadequate part-payment of the debt whose
existence is now dimly understood, and whose
inequity is so vast that the awakening creditor
stands bewildered or bedazzled, he has been ia the
thraldom of poverty and the dungeon of oppres-
sion so long,
* * *
“Bah,” says the champion of the Establishment;
“Pooh, pooh!" quoth the rector, pursy with his sur-
feit of stolen goods, “ some tale of a reversion cen-
turies old, of Norman usurpation or revolutionary
forfeitures.” But it is not so. Let us seek an in-
stance. Let us get to facts and figures, and shew
how, within a century, indeed within 50, if not 20
years, the goods and chattels, the houses and
holdings have been secured, for which “the Es-
tablishment ” now seeks to inaugurate a very late
and exceedingly long system of time payment.
* * *
A village in a midland county of England, in
area 5000 acres, was leased (there is no might have
been, it is a record of fact which is here set down)
—was leased to 13 farmers at an average rental of
303. an acre. £l4OO a year those 13 farmers paid to
the squire. They could well afford to pay it.
they kept up Jgood substantial homes, each one
with gigs to ride to market, and well bred horses
to follow the hounds; their wives and daughters
wore silks and satins, their sons learned Latin in
the grammar schools of the city, and, save the
eldest, who was bred to follow on in the farm, be-
came lawyers, doctors, or merchants. The rector
at his annual dinner received tithes of the farmers
—a comfortable £l2OO a year—out of which he paid
a curate £lOO annually, that the services of "the
Establishment” might be adequately performed.
And all these good people lived together as com-
fortably and amicably as could be imagined or de
sired. Squire and rector took £B7OO a year, farmers
about £7OOO, and the labourers, there were about
130 labourers—how much for them ? Their weekly
wages averaged under ten shillings. The sum
total paid to them was never more than £3lOO in
the year. £3lOO to be divided amongst 120 men,
with at least 50) women and children dependent
upon them 1 £3lOO a year to support 020 people.
Yes, it is just £5 each in the year, a little under
two shillings per week for each one—two shillings
per week, that was all, for meat and drink, and
clothing; not all they earned, but all they received.
We must try to understand the difference between
their earnings and their wages, we must ask what
would squire and reotor and farmer have made of
the land without their labour ? What could they
have made from the land? We will ask the
narrowest, staunchest, straightest Tory that
question. We will go a step farther, and ask him if,
without the labour of these 120 men, they could by
any possible means, and under any conceivable cir-
cumstances have raised the revenues they enjoyed?
We know, and our Tory will not refuse to confess,
that they could not. The sweat from the brow of
labour was as necessary to the cultivation of those
acres as the sunshine and the rain from heaven.
Grant that the squire’s title to the land was good;
respect his property right: Say that the farmer's
skill was necessary as the labourer’s toil, give the
rector his tenth—which, if he were faithful in his
tending of lambs and sheep, ho would earn and
might requite—and then is not the labourer en-
titled to his fair share ? Should he not divide with
squire and farmer ? Is he not, was he not, rightly
entitled to the £8460 per annum, the half of the
balance when tithes were paid ? Would God
Almighty ordain him, would common honesty
offer him, a lesser portion? And if squire and
parson and farmer paid him lees, did they not rob
him day by day, week by week, year by year, de-
cade by decade, in the quarter of a ceutury be-
tween ’5O and ’75, of a total of £131,000 ? That is
the amount, as the following calculation will
show:-Total income. £lB,BOO per annum, less
tithes, £lBBO, leaves £16920 to be divided, half of
which would be £8460. Buttbe labourers received
only £3lOO, and thus, in 25 year.?, were defrauded
of £134,000.
* * •
That is the sum to be made up by time payment.
From it some deductions have, of course, to be
made. Squire and farmer paid State dues and poor
rates, aided iu the building of that grim poor-
house in the centre of a dozen such parishes,
where, as neither thrift nor endurance nor toil nor
care nor patience could make any provision for
old age or sickness, the afflicted or broken-down
labourer became the imprisoned pauper, arid
thanked God and died; nor ever dreamed that
ease and rest and happiness were any part of
his natural inheritance. The workhouse was one
instalment of tho time-payment, the donations to
the coal and elotbmg clubs were others. Day
schools and night schools and allotments went also
against the same great debt, and all put together
would barely suffice to keep the interest paid.
There is no more of equity or adequacy in the Bys-
tem of which the Establishment is the nursing
mother than in the terms the Russian propoeed to
the Jew, or the Jew would grant to the Russian,
if unrestrained by any salutary fear. It is a sys-
tem of rob and bribe and hypocritic conciliation;
and it is the system which the Establishment
nurses with all tenderness and bestows as a bless-
ing upon Britain. “It would be fatal,” says Mr.
Boswohth Smith, “if such a Church should be
deprived of State a’d and special sanction in
Britain.” Fatal, yes; little doubt it would he
fatal—fatal to the system which rewarded three
score years of honest labour with ten years’ penal
servitude ; which separated husband from wife
and child from mother ruthlessly as any Ken-
tucky dealer in black llesh; which scrupled no
more to rob God Almighty of His tithes than His
poor of their well-earned dues; which was content
with an accomplished butcher of game as a
typical gentleman; which bred a spirit of insular
Chauvinism to be rottenness in the bones of the
State in any snock of European war. It would be
very serious if not actually fatal, to all these, but
there is some consolation in the reflection that
none of these are positively essential or of neces-
sity allisd to the true greatness of Britain, nor vet
to the glory of God or the elevation of man,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coming Premier, and the Coming
Judge.
The Hon. Dan O’Connor is responsible for indi-
cating' both these men. In a burst of generous con-
fidence he allowed the audience of his “ friends
and admirers,” in the Town Hall on Saturday
night, to infer that heis the future Premier, while'
as to the Chief Justiceship, the Attorney-General,
who is a party by the name of Simpson, “ holds it
in the hollow of his hand,” and is “probably pre-
pared to adorn it at any moment.” These an-
nouncements may both have been the result of
exultant excitement, combined with the care-
less fluency of a too restless tongue, but, as
they are publicly made by a Minister of the Crown,
we are compelled to regard them as arrows from a
bow drawn at a venture on the ohance of hitting
the bull's-eye of public approbation. As to the
first promotion—that of Dan to the Premiership
we can only regard it as one of the most foolish
predictions ever uttered. When Mr. O’Connor is
able to climb to the moon on a step-ladder, or for-
get the glories of ancient Greece, and Rome, and
“the silvery eloquence of Daniel Henry
Deniehy,” he may look for the Premiership, but
certainly not before. This is a contingency upon
which both argument and contempt would be
equally wasted. But the second forecast is much
more serious. As Attorney-General, Mr. Simpson
may possibly hold the Cbief Justiceship in the
hollow of his hand. It is no new thing in New
South Wales for a Minister of the Crown to gain
appointment to the Supreme Court Bench, and we
admit the possibility of Mr. Simpson’s promotion.
With all that, we sincerely hope that, if elevated
to the Bench, he himself may not be in the Cabinet
making the appointment. Apart from any ques-
tion of qualification, we would remind Mr. Simp-
son that such self-elevation as that prophesied by
his colleague would be rightly considered as a
political job of the grossest kind, whatever might
be the attainments or the alleged claim of the
perso 1 to whom the Bench was thus politically de-
graded. The colonies have precedents for such
political jobs which it would be in the highest
degree unwise to follow. We wait for Mr. Simp-
son's disclaimer of his colleague’s unfortunate
eloquence.
4.
A Slandered Guest
It requires immense discretion to assume the role
of a panegyrist. Mr. W. B. Dalley is a florid
speaker, of bright imagination, supported by
copious, although somewhat superficial erudition.
Discretion, however, is not a quality for which
the hon. gentleman is distinguished. By dis-
criminating persons he is regarded in the
light of a cultivate I variety of the Dan
O’Connor speoieL It was perhaps inevitable that
Mr. Dalley should take the chair at the farewell
banquet to Sir Alexander Stuav.t. And, so far
as the pleasure of the hour was concerned, Mr.
Dalley’s presidency was sufficiently felicitious.
It is not common to reflect deeply amidst the
clink of glasses, and surrounded by kindred
souls, all attuned to a sentiment of good-
will and adulation. But, like the little
book in Revelations, which in the mouth
was sweet as honey, but in the belly wa9 bitter
as gall, Mr. Dalley’s encomium on the guest of
the evening leaves an unpleasant after-taste. Mr.
Dalley described the victim of his unfortunate
laudation as a man without passion—a man of
monotonous and indiscriminating amiability.
Now, a man who has no enemies cannot be a
worthy, man so long as the world contains
scamps. A man whose indignation never finds
expression cannot be a large-souled man, so long
as instances of rascality and meanness meet one
on every hand. Mr. Dalley described Sir Alex-
ander Stuart as a feeble creature who would
not have so far forgot himself as to make unplea-
sant remarks to “ scribes and pharisees, hypo-
crites,” and who would have been careful to
maintain the most amicable relations with
the money-changers in the Temple. We trust-
nay we believe-that the shameful description is
neither true of Sir Alexander Stuart nor de-
served by him. The slander must recoil upon the
head of the man who uttered it. Mr. Dalley has
altogether failed to appreciate the manly features
of Sir Alex. Stuart s character. Drawing upon
his own imagination for the portrait of an
Ideal hero, and intending unconscientiously
to paste that ideal upon the object of his eulogium
whether it fitted or not, Mr Dalley blundered.
He described the model man of his own concep-
tion. The portrait was that of a pitiful creature
insensible to the contrast between virtue and vice
—alike supple and insinuating to a noble man and
to a brazen scoundrel—one of those conscienceless
and self-seeking vermin who declare that " God
is good and the Devil is not so bad.” This was the
portrait Mr. Dalley evolved from his inner con-
sciousness. But it is emphatically not a likeness
of Alexander Stuart.
Press—Suppress.
In one portion of the oration made by the Hon.
Dan O'Connor, the New South Wales Postmaster-
Genersl, on Saturday night last, he accused the
Sydney Morning Herald of glaring partiality
in reporting speeches in Parliament. We are not
concerned with the question of taste involved in
the attack. It is the charge itself which we now
consider. Mr. O’Connor distinctly accused the
Herald of suppressing matter in the speech of
a member which was opposed to the views of that
journal, and of distorting what was printed in
such a way as to hold the speaker up to public
ridicule and contempt. More than this, he in-
stanced two cases in which this had been done in
the reports of his own speeches. In bringing for-
ward this indictment Mr. O’Connor seemed only to
voice a matter of public notoriety, for tke hearty
cheers which greeted the speaker appeared to indi
cate that his audience was with him. The charge
is the most serious that can be brought against a
daily newspaper, touch an organ, by the mere
fact of chronicling public occurrences, tacitly en-
gages to publish a true and impartial account of
matters of general interest. If, as Mr. O’Connor
alleges, the Herald has prostituted its functions
for the gratification of its own ends, it is mors
eulnable by a thousandf old than the scorers in an
futeroolool si cricket match would be It they wU-
fully falsified the record of the runs in order that
the side which they favoured miKht seem to win.
With its honesty of motive thus impugned, the
evident course for the paper to adept would be to
print the aoeusation and then refurte it. In place
of doing so, the He baud gives strong colour to
the indictment by suppressing the very charge itself,
although made by a Minister of the Crown, and'
for that reason alone, a matter of public interest.
We cannot say what the motives were which in-
duced this latter act of suppression, but to most
people it will be evident that if the Herald
wished to admit the charge, no better way than
this could have been devised.
“ Subjects, in their homage to their Sovereign,
show their veneration for the nantion of which he
or she is the symbol.” This is the Echo’s apology
for lickspittle loyalty. If it means anything, the
sense of it is that subjects when they cringe to a
monarch show their veneration for—themselves.
Hence cringing is a manifestation of self-respect".
We always thought the Herald-Echo crowd had
a lot of self-respect, and we admire their power of
putting things neatly. But, on thw other hand, no
people in the world show such homage to the
Sovereign as those of Dahomey. They’d better
And hence the “veneration” they have for the"
nation of which that monarch is the symbol.
Singular how civil you become when you know*
that being “ cheeky ” means the twisting of your
head round so as to look down your spine!
Ta* RATES Of MUBSORIPTION tO THB BULLMin
are—For one year, 245.; hall-year, 12s. 6d.-
Quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6a. per lnohi
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements' ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in.
sertioH. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under J6l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may b a sent, if more convenient.
Mr. J. N. Hill.
The duties of a bank manager very rarely serve
to gain renown for the individual beyond the
narrow area within which his signature and
presence are familiar. Occasionally, however a
banker achieves something either in the way’ of
cash-lifting or burglar-smashing, which makes his
name a familiar sound throughout the colonies
Mr. J. N. Hill, manager of the Hoddie-street
branch of the Commercial Bank of Viotoria, h«s
chosen the latter means of winning fame. He
has ODly been in the haDk service for about 13
months, having spent some years previously in
rue service ot the Department of Education in
Victoria. Although he was for so long a time
occupied in ** teaching the young idea how to
shoot.” he does not seem to have educated him-
self in the same art, tor his revolver practice
with the burglars was as had as his conduct
was brave. Ho is now only 34 years of age, and
viewing his handsome, resolute features as pour-
trayc") on another pbge, we feel it our duty to
sympathise with m'my thousands of unappropri-
ated blessings—tor he is married.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bettis department'
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Law Bottle, only 9s.
84? ALL Bottle, a [4«. fid.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two BhilUno per Bottle.
.FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR JNYALIDB.
ACdTRALIAN PORT WINE,
If. fid. per Bottle.
Jt
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Sr. par Bottle
RUM,
In Flanks, Bottles, and Imperial Quartt
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is* 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkejs Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGIST BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND HULLO W,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street*/
erannr.'.;±:


Attempt on the Life of the Prince of Wales.
ALL THE HARROWING DETAILS.
1. The landlord of the Pig and Cat remarks casually to a customer that he couldn’t quite make out that chap wot cleared larst week without payin’ his score. He were
always a-talking about takin’ lives, and he wanted to know when the Prince of Wales was a-comin’ down. 2. The customer mentions to his master that there were a feller at
the Pig and Cat larst week a-talkin’about takin’the Prince of Wales’life. 3. The master just mentions to his friend, Jones, of the Standard, that dangerous characters are
hanging round, and that the Prince’s life won’t be safe if he comes down. 4. Next day the newsboys are yelling “ Standard— lmportant Assassination of the Prince of
Wales.” 5. H.R.H. is not alarmed for himself. It is his bleeding country he is concerned about. 6. Still, if some devoted and loyal person could be found, say by the offer of
half-a-sovereign—being his exact equivalent— 7. To make up exactly like H.R.H. and go in the State saloon car, it might save great suffering—to the country. 8. So, when
the station-master at Chester rushed to receive H.R.H., and expressed his loyal surprise that the Prince should travel unattended under the circumstances, the half-sovereign
party replied grandly that the shield he relied on was the haffections of is countrymen. 9. At the same time a mysterious personage, closely muffled, was alighting, surrounded
by troops, at a wayside station, just before you come to Chester. 10. How inexorable is fate! That night H.R.H, was awakened from slumber by a desperado clambering
through the window, and announcing, in hollow tones, that he had come to take H.R.H.’s life! 11. And what if he did turn out to be an energetic life-insurance agent? It is
only first-elass misdem[?] like our personal chum, Valentine Baker, who can be allowwed to receive visitors and alleviate the rigours of a dungeon with outlets and
champagne.


Personal
Items
the public, was not entitled to interfere with mat-
ters affecting' the civilians; wad when the Colonel
remarked that the Coief J u siSce was also a .paid
servant of the public,” the upper section of the
community and the Con secvative Press were
dreadfully indignant at si mil a sacreligious and
seditious expression of opii it»n. As theO.J.was
not sitting enthroned in th< i awful ma.iesty of the
Supreme Court, he could i iat very well commit
the Colonel for contempt, o r the Democratic com-
mandant might now be la nguishing in confine-
ment as a State prisoner.
Few people, if any, recall the libel notion
brought by George Augustus Bala against Hain
Criswell, a brother litteratei ir. Friswell published
a book called “ Modem Men of Letters, in 1870. la
this work he dealt very sai loastioally, if not sar-
donically, with Sala, who to ok it with a bad grace.
Sala was called, among otto r names, * a driveller
of tipsy, high-flown nonsem le,” “ One who will sell
his pen to describe a Jew cl othier s stock, or that
of an advertising furnitui e. dealer or hatter,’
“ One who had written for I doyd, the cheap pub-
lisher,” such stories as ‘‘Ada. the Betrayed, or the
Murder of the Old Smithy,” “The Hangmans
Daughter,” and “Love and'. Madness.” Friswell
had overshot the mark in ai itributing the books,
whose titles we have quoted,, to Sala’s pen, and the
latter came off triumphantl y on that point with
£5OO damages. By that large amount it ivill be
seen how injurious the authorship of such books
was thought to be to a man’s character. On the
other libellous matter no verdict was arrived at.
News comes of an oldt heafcrieal favourite,
Jennie Winston, who was popular in Australia
this time 10 years. In Melb< lurne she made a great
hit in Dihdiu’s "Waterman,,” singing the Bay of
Biscay sjng as never woman wan heard to sing it
before on this side of the line, and was the original
Mdlle. Lange in “La Fille do Madame Angot ”
throughout the colonies, la ’76 she went with her
husband, Mr. Arthur Bell (one of whose legs was
a remarkable feature, introductory to “ The Con-
spirators’ Chorus”), to America. Ten years is a long
time for partners to puli together, ana Bell and
his wife got apathetic. Tn feminine language,
they “wanted a change.” Sae maintains her place
on the stage, and has, indeed, improved on her
Australian form. He’has done ditto, and become
a stage manager, la that capacity he had too
It was very uogratef ul of the Czar to so
unceremoniously dismiss Prince Alexander of
Bulgaria from tne Russian army, seeing that but
for Mis Highness having been late for dinner on
that momentous evening whBn the iate Czar s
private dining-room was blown to “ smithereens,
there would be very litt'e left of Russian royalty.
The few minutes of waiting saved their lives.
The frantically loyal Courier of Brisbane
warned colonists of the consequences likely to
ensue if they sat at table with the genial Doctor
O'Doherty, M.P., although he has been a member
of the Queensland Legislature and a respected
citizen for many years. The Speaker, generally
known as the “Groom of the Stol-V’ thought it
might prejudice his chance of knighthood if he
presided, but Sir Charles Lilley, who refused a title
once, but was afterwards prevailed upon to accept
it, did not hesitate to take the chair at the banquet.
Our old friend—everybody’s old friend
—George C©pptn, has had a sad loss in the death
of his eldest daughter, Constance Ada Lucy- It
was only a year ago that she was married to Mr.
Anderson, eldest son of the late Hon. K. S. An-
derson, and one of the Victorian official assignees.
Mrs. Andeison bad with her husband been on a
visit to SorreDto and returned thence with
feverish symptoms. These were soon of a typhoid
character, and quickly delirium ensued, and con-
tinued for the few days preceding her death.
Mrs. Anderson was only in her twenty-fourth
year.
King Alfonso of Spain is said to have been
a very “larky” youth, and childishly fond of
silly practical jokts. On one occasion, when one
of his Ministers came for an audience on State
affairs, the monarch pulled a soogee bag over tne
head of his devoted counsellor, and kept it there
till the royal mirth evanesced. Such little tricks
were not the worst tniugs against him. Elucited
in a convent of the strictest order, he look to sow-
ing his wild oats as soon as he was released, and
Queen Christina must have been many times
tempted to “ bury her fingers in the painted
cheeks of the nasty thing.” Totties and Lotties
seem to be indispensable accessories to a palace.
“C.M.G.’s” are wonderful people, taken
all round. Taken "by and large,” as the sailors
say, their initialling nas much the effect upon
some of them as seen iu the additions made to a
dog’s tail. The dog goes ahead faster for it. “ Mr.
Coombes, C.M.G.. of fcydney,” as we road cf him in
the Age, is stirring them*, up at home, and his
daughter is helping him. He is lecturing on " The
Resources of New South Wales,” and, as we read,
“exhibiting specimens of his artistic skill at the
Sooiety of Painters in oil colours. His daughter’s
efforts are also in the same artistic line. Mr.
Coombes, at the conclusion of his lecture, intro-
duces a “crushing battery in full working trim,
intended by him for the colonial show. ” Coombes
wants watching evidently.
“Superfluous lags the veteran on the
stage” was hinted openly enough to old Dean and
Archdeacon Macartney, of Melbourne, who has,
officially, “ outlived his span.” In that respect he
seemed desirous of emulating the limpet-like
example of the English Vice-Chancellor Bacon,
who, over 80 years of age and deaf as a post, yet
cliDgs to the bench as if his living depended on his
earning his salary. The hints of the Bishop were
as disregarded as the “leaders” of the Press, but
a change has come about, and the Dean has at last
resigned. He probably feared that Bishop Mnor-
house’s successor would be one who would stand
no nonsense, but have an Archdeacon who
could vigorously “perform archdiaconal duties,”
■which, in Sydney Smith’s words, is what an arch-
deacon has to do, and which cannot be expected of
a man over 80 in years.
Dr. Guthrie Carr was a notability in the
Australian colonies as long back as ’57. He was
then doing good biz. at St George's Hall, Mel-
bourne, in the then popular show of electro-
biology. He had an old Maori “subject,” called
“ Happyman,” who, for so much a night, did what-
ever the “ doctor” schooled him to do. For along
time Guthrie Carr has been on tho list of “missing
friends,” but we now read of his sudden death at
Glen Innes from a supposed overdose of morphia
—accidentally, say some, but purposely, say others
—administered by himself to himself. Of the old
showmen now out and about, little Bariow is the
last survivor. He was aiausing us with Ms 1 Blue-
tailed Fly” in a tent called the “Salle de Valentino,
at the top of Bourke-street, as long back as 53
and '54, and is now at the lower end of Bourke-
street “fresh as paint ’’—can make him.
Printers have lost lately the head of their
oldest Melbourne house. It was but five years or so
ago that Mr. Moore, of Ferguson and Moore, died,
leaving his share of the business to his son. Young
Moore has now died at the early age of 37, and while
Mayor of South Melbourne. His father married
again when nearly 70, and left his fine new man-
sion in Albert Park, with a goodly fortune, to the
young wife, who is still bis widow. The present of
a stepmother did not much please the son, nor did
it mollify him that so much was left to her- O.d
men will do such things, as witness Sir Cbarhs
Gavan Duffy. who took to himself a third wile
when of old Moore’s age. Sir Charles gave up the
Speakership of the Victorian Assembly to go home
on such matrimonial venture, in which, by the
way. he has been as successful as old Lesseps in
the way of adding a young family to the Euro-
pean population.
Prince Milan of Servia, who was accused
of cowardico even before the recent war, is said
to have had a suit of armour made specially for
this last campaign. Next the body it la of the
softest silk. Over this is a thick, tightly-com-
pressed layer of eiderdown, upon which again is
a layer of wadding; the outer surface is of the
toughest leather. This armour reaches from the
neck to the knees, and covers the arms as far as
the elbows. Tills would be a pleasant suit ior a
campaign in the Arctic circle, but in any other
part of the world a John Lucas would be trans-
formed into a nursery stakes jockey by a day s
wear. During tho war Prince Milan did not put
his armour to the test much. Like England s
princes, he took care to be in the vicinity of the
bread-waggons when fighting was going on. He
usually protected the rear—except when the army
was in retreat, then he led the van by some miles
Dr. Carr, the eminent phrenologist and
electro-biologist, bought 10 grains of morphia,
and told his friends he would be dead in an hour.
He had always a name for truthfulness, and kept
it up to the last—
Alasl He’s passed away for aye
(Pale death has drawn his stumps)
Who used to mesmerise us and
Manipulate our bumps.
Let’s hope that when he goes aloft
He’ll see the gate ajar,
And hear the joyful cherubs sing
“ 801 l in triumphant Carr.
“ We also’d have our bumps described—
Nay, do not look so red,
We cannot compromise you, for
We’re limited to head.”
Colonel French, the commandant of
volunteers at Brisbane, is too independent a Radi-
cal to win much favour from tho Bananaland
aristocracy. At a public meeting, worked up by the
nobility of Gregory Terraco, tc protest against tho
use of the reserve facing their ma&sions for a rllle
range, the Colonel dared to oppose the nroceed-
ings but was not allowed to speak, The Chief Jus-
tice thought that Col. Frenoh, as a paid servant of
In the following, from a London exchange, there is a hint for a few industrious old
men in Sydney:— “A walking whisky shop has been run to earth in a prohibition dis-
trict in Ontario. The police could not discover why an old man with a wooden leg
should have such attractions for the whisky-drinkers, until one day they saw him sit-
ting on a tombstone, and watched him unscrew his wooden leg and take out a black
bottle. The cavity in the leg is now tilled with glue.” a good trade might be done
on the tombstones in the Devonshire cemetry on Sunday afternoons, during this hot
weather. The police here are more reasonable than those of Ontario. A sup now and
again would keep them from stopping up the cavity with glue.
much to do with tho chorus, one of whom greatly
influenced him. Divorces are easily obtaiued in
America, and there is no "Queen’s proctor ” to in-
terfere on the score of “collusion.” There was
collusion in this case. The divorce took place one
day; Mr. Bell and Miss Cirmin were married on
the next day. and all three—Miss Winston (now
rightly so called once more) and the newly-married
Bells appeared in one piec? same evening.
“ Rose—Song.—January 15, at St. John’s
Church, hy the Kev. Canon Smitber, Mr George
Rose, of London, to Ebza Song, widow of the late
Thomas Song, of Noumea, New Caledonia.” (Advt.
S.M.H.)—
“ Sweet arothe uses of adversity,”
Yet sweeter far this union should bo—
A rose’s beauty set to melody!
A Song bound up within a Rose!
What conjuror can such a trick disclose I
Such magic blossom who amongst us knows?
Life should indeed he bright to those
Who, separate, are SoDg and Rose-
In those two names no discord goes,
And yet—well, in the coupled twain
No murmurs musical remain,
The Song shall not be heard again!
For on the Roses leaves it lied—
Leaving a Rose behind instead,
And Song is there no more, ’tis said.
Mr. James Mirams, M.L.A., is a consistent
Radical, and a consistent teetotaler. Some time ago
the irrepressible and garrulous little man was very
bad from erysipelas, and his medical adviser in-
sisted that he should drink plenty of port wine.
The diminutive senator refused to carry out the
doctor’s orders for nearly a week, and then the
medico told him distinctly that he must either
swallow the tawny port or die. But Mirams
didn't want to die; he had fought a plucky up-
hill battle through life; he had forced his way to
the front in politics, and he felt that he was to be
the saviour of his country, and that when Graham
Berry was got out of the way, his mantle would
fall on himself. Now that Berry is going out of
the way, “Little” Mirams feels that his time has
come, and that be is to be the future Liberal
Premier of Victoria. If the man should
reach the highest pinnacle of his ambition, and
the Southern colony should ha ve the benelit of
Mirams regime, it is to he hoped that both he and
the country will thank that ’oottle of medicine
called port wine. But we are a fraid that Mirams
won’t be Premier, He still d< inounces wine and
beer, and bis teetotal fads will murely bar the way
to the Premiership. When wil t ne discard them
and again take to good port win e ?
The Daily News, started as an evening
paper in opposition to the Me lbourne Herald,
had but a short life. Mr. Nathan Lsvi, its prop-le-
tor, is now seeking to resuscitate it bv a limited
liability company. It takes vears to get a daily
paper up to paying point—a rule well proved by
the few exceptions to it. Poor Morin Humphreys
has lately died a starved out victim to his endea-
vour to start a Melbourne paper. When he sold
out of the Cape Mounted Rifles he came to Mel-
bourne with the £l2OO he had realised by that sale.
He was foolish enough to put it all into the ven-
ture of the Magpie, a weekly effusion of the
comic kind. That was in the days when no penal-
ties existed for killing; magpies, and this one did
not live long. Humphreys then tried the stage,
and made as poor an actor as he had been
editor. He then aspired to a reporter’s work,
but at that showed no talent. He joined another
man in starting the “ Victorian Men of the
Time,” the "men” being asked for ss. for a show
in its pages with liberty to write their own notices
of themselves. Even that wa s not found to pay,
and never ran to a second edition. Humphreys
has left no family, and his wife died some years
back worn out with struggling in that battle of
life in which he has now gone under also.
The details of Vanderbilt's death are a
fearful lesson to money-grubbers. He was forty
millions sterling strong. He had twenty millions
left to him by hia fath-r, old Commodore Vander-
bilt. and this the son doubled in eight years and a
half. He had a stroke of paralysis three years ago
which should have been more of a caution to him
than it was. He was debatin g with an opposition
speculator some one of the many railway difficul-
ties which he had to meet—and overcome. The
hour’s discussion of the question taxed his over-
laden brain too much, and h« > fell forward a dead
man into the arms of his m onetary antagonist.
The paralytic stroke of three years back had led
him to the building of a tomb of Eastern-world-
ltke splendour, which was finished just in time to
receive its tenant. The bulk of his enormous
fortune-supposed to be the largest in the world -
will, it is believed, go to his son Cornelius, the
eldest ot his seven cnildren, and now a man of
middle age. The others will be fobbed off with
a million sterling or so each, and will have to
struggle on with that, poor pittance—if they don’t
go to law to lose it ia their efforts to get more.
Vanderbilt took a shilling luncn daily and paid for
it weekly—taking care to deduct from the bill lor
any day in which he failed to take his shillings-
worth.
He was a newly-appointed N.Z. District
Judge, and the morning after his arrival at the
countrv town where he was to administer the law
he strolled down to the court-house to see what
kind of crib it was. and to have a quiet smoko.
The new Judge was not much to loos: at, and his
old hat and black pipe didn’t add a mite to bis
dignity- When he reached the court-house the
J.P. (who puts the yokels through at five “ bob ” a
“tear ”> was there before him, and as soon as he
clapped eyes on the Judge, he yelled out, “Coum
alang, coom alang, sweep this plaice out quick.
The Joodge'il be down sooa to see what kind of a
coort-house we’ve got for ’un. Smart's the word.”
The Judge was rather staggered at the order, but
soon recovered his self-possession, and seized the
broom and set to. Seeing him at work, the J.P.
went home to breakfast, and did not visit the
court-house again till the new Judge was on the
bench with his wig on. Strange to say, the sight
of the wig in contact with the features of his
Honor was the first thing that startled the J.P. It
made the features all too familiar, and when he
saw a smile of recognition ripping up the judicial
face the poor man felt that he had made au ass of
himself, and he went out quietly and looked about
him for a decent place to hang himself in. The
Judge, however, found him out in the evening,
and cured him with whiskey.
One of the most popular of Melbourne
Mayors was John Thomas Smith, or, as he was
affectionately called by his friends, *’ Jacky
Tommy.” His widow has lately presented a bust
of him to the Melbourne Corporation. He was a
most genial man, though not perhaps so ostenta-
tiously genial as Mr. Gatehouse, another Mayor of
the marvellous city. There were no airs or gracfin
about “Jacky Tommy.” He travelled second
class in the train—not from penuriousness, but
from choice—and smoked a short clay pipe. Hr
was Minister of Mines too, at one time, and used to
grieve to the soul the elegant officials of that
Department by going about the office on hot davu
in his shirt-sleeves. Yet, though he was thus care,
less of the rules of etiquette, which are more than
the Ten Commandments to most other men
from Ministers of the Crown to shop-walkers’
he was very graciously received by the
Queen when he went home to present
Her Majesty with an address from her
loyal city of Melbourne. It is probable, however
that he had his coat on when he went to Court and'
left his pipe with the sentry at the gate with a
guileless request to keep it alight for him till he
came out. It is said he brought the first donkey to
Australia, but we regard this statement as mythi-
cal, because had we not (Names elided. We are
not publishing a Directory.—Ed B.] out here
years before? He was a fine fellow, in whom
there was as little humbug as is possible in a
Mayor and a politician. We hope he is making an
equal mark in his present sphere of action.
The persecutors of poor Pall Mall
Gazette Stead have contrived to give an appear
ance of genuineness to their policy by working U n
a big subscription for the Armstrong family. The
renowned ’‘Lily” will be provided with a good
education and a modest dowry when she comes of
age. It was certainly a good day for “ Lily ” and
a bad day for Stead, when the latter rescued her
from the tender care of her delectable mamma
However, the sentimental sympathy which jg
being lavished on the “ poor little thing ” is partly
understandable and wholly harmless. But what
sickens us is to read that, previous to Lily’s ad-
mission to the “ Princess Louise’s Home,” her
mother and father made a tour of inspection, and
“ expressed themselves as satisfied with the ar
rangements made.” Here we have Armstrong
and mere artfully paraded as pattern parents and
severe critics of sanitary “ arrangements.” c an
the public swallow such stuff when, in spite of a u
her bolstering up by the Government, Mrs. Arm
strong had to admit that the family slept in one
room, that she had been “pulled” two or three
times for drunkenness and foul language, and th a t
her husband gave her “ one in the eye ” for dig.
posing of the daughter she now snivels over. But
there, a certain section find it convenient to
glorify these Armstrongs, so a new house has been
furnished for them and the paternal sweep has
been presented with two new sets of machines
“ capable of reaching the tops of the highest chim-
neys built.” Perhaps Mr. Stead will find him a
job now that the iniquitous Armstrong sentence
has expired.
William Waterhouse Collins, the new
Sydney secularist lecturer, made big bow as a lec-
turer to Sydney folks, at the Gaiety social, on Sun-
day morning, but he merely took a preliminary
canter up the straight. In the evening, at the
Gaiety, he again appeared, and this time went the
whole course to the admiration of a large audi-
ence. Again were hundreds turned away from
the doors; what is the Christian Evidence Society
doing? Our fat friends, to whom a little loss of
flesh is nothing, ought to attend these lectures- it
is easier than the Banting system. They have
simply to sit stillland ooze and mop. John Lucas
ought really to go, but in the interests of his fel-
low hearers, he’d require to plaoe each foot in a
tub. The lecturer’s subject was—“ Can Man know
God.” In character, the lecture was somewhat too
rudimentary for a Sydney audience, who have, of
late years, had some strong truths told to them.
They will take their “ColliDs” as hot as he
can give it to them. In justice to Mr. Collios, we
may state that on announcing his subject, he in-
timated his intention of going to the root of his
opinions in order to place himself in a clear (light
and on a fair footing at the commencement of his
Sydney career. The lecturer is, as Mr. Symes
described him, “ a little man of good ability.” He
is a good speaker, and we should imagine, a still
better debater—a bright, cheery little fellow with
a kind'y smileand winning way, somewhat youth-
ful in appearance—just the sort of man to attract
the ladies,now Charles Bright has grown somewhat
grey and worn in the wars. We believe Mr.
Collins has a lengthy engagement in Sydney. We
are confident he has a great career before him.
Thus a correspondent:—“An article that
appeared In the Dublin Freeman's Journal,
some time back, referred to Mr. Winter, a Mel-
bourne journalist, as being ‘gifted,’ana I see in
your occasional reference to the ‘ gifted ’ Winter,
that you are evidently under the impression that
the individual in question is Samuel Vincent
Winter, the editor of the Melbourne Herald. I
may tell you that the Winter whom the Irish
journal credits with being ‘gifted’ is not the smart
S. Y- Winter, but his brother, Joseph, who runs
the Catholic organ in Melbourne called the Advo-
cate. Why the Dublin Freeman should term Joe
Winter ‘gifted ’ I am at a loss to know, as no one
has ever known him display any marked ability,
except of the sort possessed by men who have al-
ways a keen eye to ho. 1. I think the home
paper heaps this encomium on Joe’s head
because he was identified with the Irish
National Land League in Melbourne, but it
can hardly be aware of the fact that when
that organisation was first started in the Southern
colony Joseph Winter held aloof from it and tried
to throw cold water on it, but when It was begin-
ning to develope Into a strong body he joined it
and obtained a good few advertisements for his
weekly print. I was astonished when I saw Win-
ter's name mentioned in the same category with
many illustrious and good Irishmen who have
made their mark in Australian politics, as his news-
paper-tbe Advocate-Is, like the Sydney Free-
man s Journal, an out-and-out Conservative
paper that supports a policy which, if it once takes
root in these colonies, will produce the same effects
as have been produced in old Ireland by bad
government and class legislation.
“Ruined by Betting and Women” was
the heading in a Melbourne evening paper when
William Yuille committed suicide the other day.
The rash gentleman in question was “ ruined” at
the early age of 21. Woman’s infidelity and a
long run of losers so preyed upon his mind that he
took to highway robbery in the winter of his dis-
content. Poor fellow I He thrived no better at
the iaBt game than at backing "doubles” or love-
making. So he killed himself in sheer disgust. A
youth of his sensitive organisation is better under
the turf than on it. Let us siDg to William. He
is an angel now, and can accompany us on his
harp—
William Yuille, William Yuille,
You were—pardon us—a fool!
Quite a lot of manly qualities you lacked:
You precious soon knocked under.
We should startle you, by thunder'
If we mentioned ail the “stiff ’uns” that we've
hacked.
We’ve been often made a martyr
By some fair inamorata—
Then for tne sileat tomb have felt inclined,’
And longed to slumber in it—
Sav for something like a minute,
But on second thoughts we always chaDgeh
our mind.
Yes, William, girls and horses
Bring their sorrows and remorses,
More especially to boys of 21;
They’ve been, in fact, our curses,
But we took to writing versep,
And didn’t quite collapse as you have done.
General Grant, in bis memoirs, confesses
that when he first took command of a regime lll
ordered to attack a hostile force, he feu
funkey, or, as he puts it, “anything but easl'
Well, we have been that way ourselves, and knoff
the feeling exactly. We can never forget the
turn we got when we first saw a Maori fellow taKJj
deliberate aim at our precious person from behind
a swamp tussock on the Waikato. The way w 0
squirmed on our stomach and crawled in the mu l
behind a recumbent log was a new revelation
the art of war to the whole British force wit l
which we were connected. Previously the red-
coats stood up in a row and allowed the Maorj 8
to pot them by two and three at every shot
But we changed ail that. We were afraMj
and hid behind the log, and finally kill ol
the Maori. Had we been brave and fearlef*


. nvnosed our precious person the Maori would
and expos an ‘ d pro bably dined on our best
baV e kin rds. rp akin>f examp i e 0 f uS , the
joint also behind trees and things and
other more Maoris that day than they had ever
kfi ,ed “ f ° r _e But about General Grant. This is
do n ®. an savs on tbe subject of his “ funk “As J
wb the brow of the hill from which it i
we ovnpcted we could see Harris’ camp, and pos-
w£?, tfnd his men ready formed to meet us, my
aibly ? getting higher and higher until it felt
bea A. as though it was in my throat. 1 would
to anything then to have been back in
mmofs but I iiad not the moral courage to halt
consider what to do; I kept right on. When
an< \.«aphed a point from which the valley below
we r ®a full view, I halted. The place where
had been encamped a few days before was
cl there and the marks of a recent encampment
sc !!ip mainly visible, but the troops were gone.
resumed its place. It occurred to me at
that Harris had been as much afraid of me as
heen of him. This was a view of the question
Thau never taken before; but it was one I never
J Vclnt afterwards. From that event to the close
t the war, I never experienced trepidation upon
Confronting an enemy, though I always felt more
or less anxiety.”
Tt mav De remembered that at tbe recent
rvtipknell shivoo our champion skiter, rushing in
whpre an angel would tear to tread, dubbed the
Unfortunate guest, " the prince of operators,” and
+hat this absurd remark was greeted with perfect
Shrieks of laughter. Now, in justice to tbe in-
anited Cracknell. let us explain where the laugh
name in. There is a very wide difference between
l oanable electrician, winch Mr. Cracknell is, and
a capable operator, which he certainly is not. To
up an electrician requires a brainful man, and one '
who is willing to devote years of study to the
alienee. On the other hand any barber’s clerk,
nrov iding he has an ear for time, and can fairly
read and write, can be an efficient operator in 12
months. We have some men who are both elec-
tricians and operators as well, however, but such
men are rare, and the encouragement they receive
is a sufficient warning to others to keep their
lights under the thickest bushel they can find.
4o far as operating goes there is only one
SuDerintendent in Australia —Superintendent
MTlauran, of Western Australia, who can
lav claim to the title. At the same time,
it is no more necessary for a Superintendent
to he able to manipulate a “ key ” than it is for a
ship s captain to be able to swab a deck. There is
a good and true story told of a raw clerk who one
aav attempted to receive a message which Mr.
Cracknell essayed to send. Time alter time did
the novice tell his Superintendent to "repeat,”
until at last the latter, losing patience, snapped
back, "Send some one to instrument who can
read ” To which the now savage colt, not know-
ing who was at the other end of the wire, replied:
“ send some one that can read! Why, I’ve shown
your tinpot stuff to every soul in the office, and not
one can read a word. N. says you must he one of
the Double Bay hlackfellows, and H. thinks you’re
tbe cove that used to copy old Shalmanazar’s
wash hills out on the Babylonian bricks.” Of
course there was Sheol to pay over this at first,
but the Superintendent, who is known as a good
sort, was content with an apology when he cooled
down. The above explains why the yells or
laughter greeted the “ JayDil’s” remark, and shows
how a sterling man can be made the laughing
stock of all by the fulsome slush which an ig-
norant friend may chose to heap upon him.
Political
Points
4a the University Hall the other night
thexGWS,sa concert of classical music. Of it a
high-class metropolitan paper says:—” The hearty
and appreciative applause accorded each number
of the programme amply proves that when the
highest Glass of music is interpreted, revealing the
inner lights and hidden depths of the composers’
minds, it is as well received and thoioughly en-
joyed as the more stirring melodies of ‘ Pop goes
the Weasel,’ or ‘ Annie Lisle.’ ” We’ve attended
elaesical concerts in Syoney, and, if a number of
faces resembling boar’s while; digesting, were a
pmof of an insight into the “inner lights and
hidden depths of the composers’ minds,” we can
only say that, if the composers themselves were
present, they’d go straight home, assaulting in-
offensive people on the road, borrow a plane,and re-
duce their pianos to shavings. The tact is, there
is more nonsense spoken aad written about music
ffian about either of its sisters, poetry and paint-
ing—which is saying a great deal. Only by those
who hg,ve devoted years of hard labour to the
(Study of music can the works ot the great masters
b@ really appreciated and enjoyed. To the retired
squatter, whose devotion has been to land-grab-
bing, or to toe pert Miss who is working her way
through the ” Como quadrilles ” and the Maiden’s
prayer,” the elaborate compositons of Beethoven
or Weber are mere unmeaning alternations of
jingle and rumble. No one wants to blame them
for this. It is when they or their journalistic ad-
mirers bab ole about "the inner lignts and hidden
depths,” that we see moderately sober men falling
hapk on drink and tobacco to keep themselves
from worse,
It is wbeu vey.ecl with the vulgarities of a
pinchbeck Democracy, where each tainks himself
as good as his neighbour and occasionally better,
that we tiy for solace to the pages of the Austra-
lasian. "a lady’s letter irom London” m that
journal introduces us to a society far removed in
every way from that which residents are obliged to
put up with in Waterloo—a society never caught
en deshabille gossiping through the space lett by
& removed yard-paling, or, In badly-arranged
iiifderplothing, turning the corner with a sus-
picious-looking jug under an apron. No. In the
tetter, kings and queens are as common as hairs in
Keut-street butter. We love to read of those
eyalted people—of thpir polish, their esprit, and
those racy bon mots with which their conversation
is freokled-Rashes that woufij. make Sheridan
go despondingly home and put the “ School
ior Scandal ” in the fire. Speaking of the
death of the King of Spain our “lady” says:—
“So vanishes tue most interesting figure that has
passed across the stage of contemporary history
since Maximilian of Austria trod it.” There, now.
We ve had Gladstone and Bismarck, and Thiers
and Garfield, and fancied they were “ intertst-
ing.” But we Australians are always making
mistakes. Still, as interesting as Maximilian was,
the Mexicans did not hesitate to insinuate a num-
ber Qf fide bullets into his royal system, just to
feach otners like him to a'ay at home. And of
Queen Isabella, the motner of poor Alfonso, this
gifted writer gays:—" Her griet is unbounded. It
is supposed that the brother of Mercedes, is per-
sona grata to this much-afflicted woman.”
It is painful to think ot tho lies that,
tsome years ago, passed round Europe at
toe mention of this "much-afflicted” Queen’s
dame. Her affection for her soldiers—especially
for thoeo who were young and good-looting—was
said to be unbounded. But then the Bourbons,
male and female, were always lull ot tenderness,
and so became marks for vile calumniators. Then
we are told that on the loss of his first wife, “ In
the poor boy’s agonising grief—no was a king
fend a soldier, but only a noy—he was helped and
supported by his sister, the Infanta Isabella
countess GirgeDti, whose hustand committed sui-
cide Ift years ago, and who is a very clover
Woman.” Possibly, it was owing to his wife’s
cleverness ” that Uirgenti tmoved for the Golden
bnore. We know nothing like a clever wife to
cause a man to sidle. ” The Queen (again
we quote) is in an interesting situation, and the
Question of the succession must remain in
suspense until the sex of the posthumous child is
known.” Twins would compncute matters.
Hurrah for monarchy I You never know whom
po Obey till the doctor goes away and the feeding
wottle3 are brought in. By mems of an auto da-fi
MJeW' the Spauish authorilies of former days
Sf uld soon toll the sex of a coming ruler. We
wish thpy d return to this method, and we’d con-
tract for a supply ot Israelites Yes, we can
nonestjy recommend “A Lady’s Letter fiom
London ” jto those frothy Ifadieals amongst us who
Pri ter spouting in the public reserves or badger-
Policemen to reading of royalty. If it won’t
-Auhe thejr manners and keep them away from
«oe Byrnes nothing will.
The Duke of Bedford is going to desert
the liberal ranks if Mr. Gladstone gives liberty to
Ireland. What a day it will be for both England
and Ireland when the Duke and his compeers are
reduced to the ranks and to the necessity of earn-
ing an honest living I
Donald Crawford, the shallop of whose
domestic peace was said to have been wrecked by
Dilke, has been returned to Parliament, for the
North Eastern division of Lanarkshire. He hadn’t
a show before the scandal arose. Ambitious politi-
cians of N.S.W. should make a memo.
Hon. Alfred Deakin, who is to succeed
Chief-Secretary Berry in the Victorian Cabinet,
has been told that he will blast his future by
accepting the position. But his critics forget that
Mr. Deakin is a strong Spiritualist, and, therefore,
ought to he able to see further into the dim future
than they can.
The Imperial Federation League of Canada
insists that in any suggested basis for Imperial
Federation there shall be included a trade inter-
change between the Empire upon terms more
favourable than those extended to foreign coun-
tries, unless such countries shall establish recipro-
A PARTHIAN QUIVERFUL.
SCENE: At the Sydney hiring of the Parthia’s Immigrants.
NEW ARRIVAL (to lady ): “SIX CHILDREN, HAVE YE? AND ARE THEY ALL YOUNGER
THAN HIM?” (Not hired.)
cal trade relations with the proposed Federalion.
In other words, Canada will enter the federation
only when the Empire has rejected the theory ot
Free-trade.
The Times says that “An independent
Irish Parliament means secession sooner or later.”
We quite concede this, if it can be shown that on
any Irish question for the last 50 years the Times
was not wrong. Did an independent Pennsyl-
vanian Parliament mean secession ? No; it helped
to put it down.
It is currently reported that the difficul-
ties which operated to prevent Sir Alexander
Stuart from proceeding to England some years
ago, after accepting the N.S.W. Agent-General-
ship, to assume the duties of the position, are
again incommoding him in a modified form. In
this, as in other countries, it seems sometimes as
though Solomon s proverb works back-end fore-
most, and riches are better than a good name.
When nearly 20 years ago it was proposed
to expel a member of the Victorian Legislature
for taking a bribe, the Hon. George Higinbotham
rose and declared that the senator who gave the
bribe should also be excelled, as it was not fair to
make fish of one and ilesh of another. Well, the
Hous9 expelled the receiver but left the giver
severely alone. Since then Mr. Higinbotham has
been appointed a Supreme C mrt Judge, and only
the other day the briber whom he wanted expelled
from the Assembly in days gone by was elevated
to a seat on the Bench alongside him. We wonder
if reminiscences of olden times will ever appear to
the two functionaries when perched on the judi-
cial pedestal together.
The trustees under the will of the late
Sir G. Wigram Allen, are said to find them-
selves under the legal necessity of seeking to
realise on some £8001) or £9OOO worth of the pro-
missory notes ot a politician, found among the
deceased knight’s papers. Captious people say
it was always a tacitly understood tbiQg between
the parties that the ad vancesshould be regarded as
cancelled by the Speakership and the knighthood,
and that the maker of the notes had been allowed
to believe that they had been long ago destroyed.
Bat this plea is too impotent in law as a defence
against an action on the bills, and would amount,
in any case, to a confession of corruption and
malfeasance in office. The difficulty is this—the
trustees would be personally responsible to the
heirs were they to neglect any means to recover
the moneys. The debtor can’t pay ; and the
political situation is seriously complicated by the
fact that, with these liabilities hanging over his
head, one of our most potent political chiefs is
practically paralysed.
The chief promoter of paste-aud-scissors
journalism in England, Mr. G.Newnes, who started
and made a fortune out of Tit Bits, is now one of
the members of the House of Commons. Perhaps
the strongest incident of the English general
election was the overthrow of Sir Watkin Wil-
liams Wynn. He and his ancestors, tne uncrowned
kings of AVales, have sat for East Denbighshire
ior 177 years, but in this contest not only lias
W. W. W. been defeated, but his life has been en-
dangered as well. During one of his election
meetings, brick bats were carelessly passed to him
through the window, and at the close of his speech
he escaped by a back door and had to run like a
redshank for a couple of miles pursued by a yell-
ing crowd. Favoured by the darkness, he escaped
with but slight iDjury.
Queensland will have to pass a law making
the members of her Legislative Assembly, to
whom she recently voted payment for their
services, knock the money down in the Par-
liamentary refreshment-room or in some other
time-honoured fashion. To spend it in the cause
of demonstrative virtue is manifestly irregular.
Messrs. Lum'ey Hill, Kates, and Morehead no
sooner pocketed the £2OO each than they looked
about to play the Good Samaritan. They gave it
to the Hospita'sin their electorates. Now, Queens-
land hospitals have their donations supplemented
by a2to l rate by the Government. Hence, the
country which has paid each of these men £2OO,
must follow on with. £4OO a-piece more immedi-
ately. Some men would be less of a national
nuisance drunk than charitable.
Why Mr. Alfred Deakin has been selected
as leader of the so-called Liberal contingent
seems a perfect enigma, unless it was in order to
placate the man-David Syme, of the Age— who
was the cause of his political being, and who
seems to have his hand in the making of every
Victorian Ministry. It 1s only a few years since
the great David Syme introduced young Deakin
to public life, and lie certainly has not since de-
veloped abilities which Drove even hia litness for
a Minister, let alone a chief. How old stagers and
skilful politicians like W. Collard Smith, James
Mirams, J. B. Patterson, John Woods, W. M. K.
Vale, and C. E. Jones can bring themselves to
follow and acknowledge the leadership of the
juvenile Deakin, is a problem that can only be
solved in the developments of the future.
Politics are, in Melbourne, hat as table
beer. Candidates will be, as they are, hard put to
it what to talk about. It is pitiable to read their
speeches, and must be irksome to listen to the
poor stuff they give utterance to. A cry is started
for the taxation of absentees, who go hence to live
elsewhere on the income drawn from what they
may leave here. If they go to Great Britain they
are threatened in this way, just now, to be burnt
at both ends. The English income-tax collector
wants to get at them there, and if they be got at
here also they will be situated in the interesting
state known as between the Devil and the deep
sea. It don’t trouble us much just now. We are
in the impartial state of the American backwoods
woman whose husband was lighting with a bear.
It didn’t matter much to her, she said, how the
battle went. We shall be content to pay absentee
tax on our large property when we get it. As for
the British income-tax collector we fancy we shall
be equal to him. A pressman will be no fool in
filling up an income-tax paper.
Mr. Harold Stephens told the Cooma people
the other night that he had had personal dealings,
and been mixed lip with Sir Henry somewhat, and
that he knew Sir Henry was personally an ob-
noxious person to anybody with whom he came
into contact One would like to hear Parkes in
one of his biting bitter humours describe Harold,
with whom he has been mixed up somewhat.
But the Parliamentary blossom goes on to say
that ho asked Sir Henry, in consequence of Var-
ney Parkes making an ass of himself at Liver-
pool, if he intended to support Sir John Robert-
sod, and told him he wanted a categorical answer,
when Sir Henry informed him that he would sup-
port Sir John. We don’t like contemplating the
time when we shall be an old man like Sir Henry.
Rut it Hashes before us that, whenever such time
comes, if a lineal piece of humanity, with a head
on it like Harold Stephen’s, pops up and demands
a categoric i answer about an important political
matter we have not chosen to publicly divulge—
though we may burst the waistband of our
trousers, we’ll seize, eat, and swallow the Monaro
outcome of manhood suffrage.
Of the Federal Council now sitting in
Hobart, the Pall, Maul Gazette speaks thus:—
‘‘An Australian federation comprising Victoria,
Queensland, Tasmania, South Australia, and West
Australia, but leaving out New South Wales and
New Zealand, is something like a federation of
the United Kingdom minus Ireland and the middle
ot Eagland.” But with South Australia out, and
due allowance made for the sort of Constitution
West Australia "enjoys,” the title assumed by the
gentlemen sitting in Hobart is still more hollow,
'•'he Gazette goes on to say that a sham federa-
tion will not ll erely do no good, but may do a great
deal of harm.
Some of the veterans of Victorian politics
have been asked to stand at the forthcoming elec-
tions, but they appear to have had enough of it.
They have, in American phraseology, "seen the
elephant,” and are glad to get clear of the crowd.
Loader will not stand again for his old constituency
of West Melbourne. Simon Fraser will once more
contest that seat. His £lOOO portrait, painted by
Millais, is a big thing in the Melbourne Picture
Gallery. It shows what nay yet be done by the
portrait painter in comparison with the photo-
grapher, and comes well out of the contest. Sir
George Verdon has a sad drawDack to his success-
ful life—he is a martyr to gout. To animal food
he is quite a stranger, and has been so for years.
It is questionable if the next Parliament will see
Sir Charles Macmahon in it. Like Sir Francis
Murphy—his precursor as Speaker—he prefers
“the ha'cyon calm of days” which old age, hap-
pily for some, brings with it. They have seen the
show, and are content to be well through Vanity
Fair. With Buiwer they say
“The weary bird, blown o'er the deep,
Would sooner quit its shore
Than they would risk the toils again
Which Time hath brought them o’er.”
Mr. Jas. Mirams, the diminutive and
teetotal member of the Victorian Parliament, has
published his address to the electors of Colling-
wood, whom he has represented for over 10 years.
Amidst so many conflicting claimants lor the
leadership of the Liberal party, and so many in-
trigues for obtaining that position, “Little”
Mirams declines to pin his faith to any man, or
swear fealty to any leader, and he puts forward a
thoroughly Radical and progressive programme.
It is said that Chief-Secretary Berry, and other
recreant Liberals, will move Heaven and earth in
order to defeat Mr. Mirams for the able and effec-
tive manner in which he has exposed their
duplicity and trickery, but we think the
“great unwashed” of Collingwood will rally
round the little man once more. We don’t
like some of his views, but he is, un-
doubtedly, one of the most consistent poli-
ticians and uncompromising Democrats in the
Southern colony, and he has done a vast amount
of good for the cause of Protection ana Radical-
ism. He was the only Victorian public man that
wrote to the Melbourne Press exposing the hol-
lowness of the Soudan campaign fiasco, and more
recently he courted unpopularity by moving in
the Legislature for a return showing the cost to
the colony of the maintenance of Sir H. B. Loch
and Government House. This motion was opposed
by that notorious tuft-hunter and bigot, the Hon.
J. B Patterson, who “ wouldn’t stand by and see
bis Excellency the Governor so iDsulted.” For
this move Mr. Mirams will have to encounter the
opposition of the loyalists and Jirigoes, but we
think he will survive it. At any rate, we wouldn’t
like to see him out of the House, where he has
proved so useful on many occasions. Besides,
there are not so many honest men in Parliament
now-a-days that we can afford to lose one of them.
The Saturday Review compares Austra-
lia favourably with Britain’s “elder but much tesa
sympathetic child, America.” It is strange how
nttle sympathy some people have for you, no
matter what you do for them. Let us see. Over a
century ago the English King and his humane
Ministers turned loose on the American people all
the cut throats that could be lound in the United
Kingdom; all the hirelings that could be mir-
chased from Gorman princelings. Every human
rubbish-heap in Europe was scoured for garbage
to briug the Yankees to reason. Muskets were
placed in the hands of released felons, bayonets
given to the frequenters of brothels, In order that
colonists might be taught to respect the divine
right of monarebs. Thirty years afterwards, for
insolently refusing to allow British war-ships
to search American merchantmen and “press”
as many as were required for service under
the Union Jack, some of the veteran Pen-
insular regiments were sent across the Atlantic,
descended on a village, ravished all the women,
marched on Washington, and blew up the Capitol
—the English general in command mildly remark-
ing, “I will make cow-pastures of these Yankee
places,” and then bolting precipitately with hia
forces back to his ships. For 60 3 ears subse-
quently, English writers exhausted the vocabulary
of abuse and ecorv in describing American cus-
toms, manners, and institutions. Tnatof a very—
an heirloom from Engl sh colonial times- came in
for deserved animadversion. But when the
Republicans at last determined to sweep away the
cursed institution, there was scarcely a British
writer who did not uphold the “ chivalry ” of the
men who were endeavouring to perpetuate it.
Ships were let loose from English dock-yards to
destroy Northern commerce. War in favour of
the slaveholders was more than once on the point
of being declared. And after all these attentions,
to think that “ America is a much less sympathetic
child than Australia!” Alas, for man’s ingrati-
tude.”
We are rapidly attaining the old world
civilisation. It is only at very rare intervals that
we can chronicle the gracious condescension of
royalty in our miast; but, thank goodness! we
have our vice-royalty always with us—like the
poor. And every now and then we can work up
Bomenausealing little anecdotes of purely home
manulacture. From a Melbourne paper we
gather thai Sir Henry Loch lias met with “strange
adventures” at Mount Macedon. First of all, His
Excellency bad an “encounter with a snake, in
which the enemy of mankind had to succumb.’
As the representative of a mischievous politi
cal system is, in h s official position, quite as
much the “ enemy of mankind” as any snake, we
thought for the moment that Victoria must be
governorless. But welwere disillusioned by the dis-
covery that Sir Henry has, since the snake episode,
had an adventure —such a droll affair I—
with a butcher boy. Sir Henry got off
the track one day, “and had to accept a
lift home in the spring-cart of a butcher boy, who,
all unwitting of his companion, entertained him
with all the local grssip, Anally defying him to a
match at snowballing in the winter.” There is
the true European flavour about “ all unwitting
of his companion.” We are expected to see some-
thing exquisite humorous in the Idea of a butcher
boy maintaining his ordinary demeanour in the
company of a Governor. Pheugh! But let us
finish this thrilling yarn. “The astonishment of
the youth on discovering the identity of his fel-
low-traveller was only equalled by his delight at
the substantial acknowledgment of his services.”
That bit, too, is quite up to the orthodox form of
all “ amusing stories ” about great people. Tbo
butcher boy was astonished probably. There has
been so much glorification of the Governor in the
Mount Macedon, and every other district, that the
boy had pictured him with a halo round his hat.
Anyway, it is nice to read a h out the “ substan-
tial acknowledgment.” Sir Henry can afford to
pay for a ride once in a way. Most of his travel-
ling expenses are charged to the Government of
Victoria. Even the pecuniary acknowledgment
was indirectly provided by the butcher boy's fel-
low-colonists.
Only by a pure spirit can nervousness be
bsinatlcted. Wolfe s Schnapps is the stimulant
required.
tiow difficult and bewildering it would be
to attempt to describe the patterns, colours,
shapes, and uses of the many articles to be found
in such an establishment as Bray Bros., in Georgre-
street I Do as Sheba’s Queen did, see for yourself,
and then you will probably say, like her, ** The half
has not been told me.’ *


Camp Fire Musings.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
I PART II.
1 1 see that rooky ledge which jut*
ver the abyss —so fat that few
afely stand upon its brmh and look _
i on the trees, a thousand feet beio
atch the Uringalla s tortuous course,
r bene&tb that it is as a oftno.
immering silver with a d9uble row
.auarinas, emerald-green m hue,
a each border. Of) n?ht the gorg
is never-ending. Ilocky ridges rise
instant, though irregular ar.ay,
ing their scattered, although lofty, trees
o the frowning precipice s toot.
with them still the river s coursei is seen,
Jeep-blue distance
point of vanishment. While;K?'‘®at
ck-fringed chasm bears upon 1 ta b y e f
noisy Yarrowin, which, laughiug, leaps
n rugged stairs, and makes a hundrea cav ,
ed iuthe yielding limestone to respond
i ripplmg murmur, till the air is fuU
lothing melody; gaining at. long
noother bed, it winds with gentler now
Din the sister Hood; the union made,
Uringalla, with majestic sweep,
,qs on to meet the sea, escorted still
ows of closely-growing emerald oaks,
on each side, from these
i rugged slopes and cliffs of roc
k blue, save where a streak of red bet >
presence of a vein of iron ore
iad begirt the valley at the first.
r well can I recall each incident
t filled the space of that eventf ul dayI
T well remember that we viewed the streams
wo fond lovers pressing on to join
ever-ending union, so to glide
h two-fold lorce to the eternal sea.
right hand flood, which gave the hlenden
Lm? when they had joined, we thought was
and the sparkling Yarrowin,
iant with mirth, and light, and happiness,
named the bride; it was alancy bred
:he surpassing beauty of the scene,
m in a slow and clumsy style we .
• names in great rude on the stone,
1 wrought them round with many a strange
ich showed much more of labour than of skill.
ice-cold cavern was our dining hall—
ifty chamber, ceiled with stalactites, m
ich took strange shapes in the prevailing
here was hut one low and narrow door
entrance to the cavern, and the light
iched not unto the overarching looi.
the farther end a gaping chasm yawned,
measurablv deep, dark as the night,
“constant echoing hack a river song
ig in its lowest ]iQgered ther0>
without,
route.
io has not known what exultation sorings
im the fleet motion of a generous steed-
io has not felt a new-born strengta arise
thin the mind, a steady imp-tus,
in in force to that which bears the frame
swiftness forward '( Then is gloomy Care
ft far benind, for it can only keep
, pillion-seat behind the rider wnen
s steed is slothful. Through the open bush
e cantered briskly, sometimes bending low
, 'nponp o gwintriDfir tress oi mistletoe,
! drawing on the left rein, or the right,
) train a passage through the sturdy trees,
id in the evening gale was sweet pertume
esh-wafted from tne wattles, which were clad
sulphur-coloured cloak of clustering bloom.
len for a space we made our painful way
lonv a passage with grim humour styled
public road—a via Dolorosa for our steeds,
ocky fragments rose aoove its surface,
■osaed now and then with slippsry skeletons
f BapiingsToast upon the yielding sod
i help sustain some waggon s Sinking wheel,
hilst here and there was cut a rugged drain,
hich testified the force of winter s flood
nd threatened danger to a careless steed.
hence by a smoother path, through rolling
'"herefevery ridge and hill was densely crowned
ath a democracy of hush, from which
Si?tK?tood“h ; e naked trunk,
if dignity, of power, and moral life,
nd only waiting till the coming storm
oouId prove itself too strong for their weak hold,
nd burl them from the plane they could not
grace.
t last we reached the hill which overtopped
'he Tallyangia homestead. Who could gutss
v hat dread calamity should g-ate
k nr nartv ere wc reached its nearest gate,
wungbtmk to bid us enter V Who could know
'hat life-long happiness or grief to me
hould hang upon a harnes3-maker s twine .
If.y hand is on a palfrey’s arching reak,
iy pvpr are bent upon its rider s .
)ur steeds sweep down tbe path with ktadred
ris 8 tho last canter-but a few yarf s more
Imd we shall reach the gate, our journey s end.
r vain is courser’s speed when Death pursues!
’ 8 VSl to flefthe lightpiDlf stroke,
)r overtake the winged flight ot I hougnti
\ treacherous thread, a strap not firm y ,.
an extra strain, two girths torn from their hold.
* little cry. a hand that clutches air,
A horse without a rider; on the ground
rhe beauteous rider lies, and on her face
rhere sits a tranquil smile ot settled peace.
Alas! the soul that wrought that smile has fled.
Gently we bore her to the house, and what
Ptiysiclans could advise or kiudnbss do
Was done, but all in vaic. Who can recall
Tne spirit to that house from whence its flight
Has once been taken ? j WQuld fftln forRet
The days that followed. How c mid I remain
To drag through tedious and weary hours
When every varied scene for miles around
Keminded me of Linda ? do I left
The towD, the district, everything that served
To tell me of my sorrow, and 1 seek.
In unknown lands and in a changed life,
To east off the emircling bands ot grief,
And still my anguish with excitement drawn
From the prospector’s luck-adoring lif 3.
But it is all in vain I change the scene,
Mysslf I cannot change. Why. therefore stay
To fight with fortune, seeking for that pr.ze
Which e-en when won, would he to me no more
Than the bright trinket to a savage man i
Why should I spend my days in searching for
The glitteriDg guerdon which I covet not i
Wherefore live a slave unto my sorrows
When I have power to lift the grievous load
That presses on another s weary back,
And give to Borne the joy ot peaceful rest
And strive, by mtkist’ring to others; griefs,
To cure mine own. Thus, thus l will respect
Mv darling’s memory, for all her thought
Was but to glad, or profit, all who came
Within her hallowed j hftye
To clothe my thoughts in selflsnuess so long!
Fool, to have thought that I could prove my love
To Linda by such deeds as she would bate I
Henceforth I live but for my feliow-men !
And when the grave shall hold my mortal part
I pray to prove—not worthy—but belo\ ei
Of her with whom on earth my spirit dwelt.
NORMAN FRENCIL.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent* who give nti
Glume cannot expect to have their com
mwnicatiom noticed.!
“Argus”: What you write about soenes
of ruffian ism and blackguardism_in the b. M.
Herald office we believe to be malicious nosu.
Hi tne publisbing-room there may be “me borM-
plav—one can t get young dukes to fold papers.
Buifthe Herald establishment is in p . ev ®ckon we
rpnntable and orderly place We reckon we
know more about the B. M. Hera.ld than you do.
We belonged to the editorial staff for °' ror
“Gambmino" (Tasmania): Polios 6 and 6 of
“ Cannibal Camp ” have not come to hanm 1 lease
send them. It seems to open we 11.... inuso
Dhiles”: We don’t see why you should write
such an unvarnished description ol your-
self What is your drunken aunt to us l
We never heard of her before "Fanny
Bird”: Have used one of your para......
“ Country Yokel ”: You say that the electors of
South Melbourne should reject Mr. David Gaun-
son M.L.A , at the approacning election, because
years ago sought to get Ned Kelly reprieved.
We hope tne South Melbourne voters will not
allow that to weigh with them. Dave Gaunson,
being In favour of the abolition of capital punish -
ment. had an undoubted right to agitate
for the reprieve of Ned Kelly, and every
other public man has the same
“P.A.” (Bundaberg, Q.): Good parcdy. May use.
“Junius ”: You s*y you wrote it with a pur-
pose. We could have sworn it was not written
with a pen. Gall round some day and tell the
office-boy’s aunt what it is all about Hiram
Abiff ’ : Will touch up for future issue.... -lack-
ass” (Melbourne): You only want a brass door-plate
?o be an assurance company. And you need not
go far for the brass either. Your screed has
helped to boil cabbage for tlm office boy s mother.
Rnt t.rv again. To a boy of li, with your, colossal
cheek, y all thinks are possible. Look, for instance,
at Heaton ...” W. Sykes” (of Berrima): Well,Bui,
we can scarcely read your scree A You are wrong,
anvhow. in addressing it to Mr. 1 radl, of
Darlinghurst.” It wasn’t Mr. Traill who had the
honour of imprisonment for the Clontarf expost
Mr. Traill wrote the article, but the law, withits
customary accuracy of operation, seized upon Mr.
Archibald and another and locked them ud....
“C. Green”: Will probably utilise.... Wilens-
piegel” (Bavenswood, Q.): Know nothing about
tae ” company.” It is probably a swindle- Re*
ceived pars., but could not make any use oi them.
“ Reader ”: You are certainly writer than the
author you quote 11 G. -8.” (Rockhampton,
O.): You should choose a subject better suited to
vour lyric powers. Bay an ode to a dead wood-
bug “ H.K” (Dubbo): You grumble because
the local Telegraph makes one unpleasant and
witless allusion to a necessary conveyance, and
seem to think that such a solecism ib.remarkable
in colonial journalism. You don t know that in
Sydney there is a paper called the News which re-
vels in such things, and gives up much of its space
to such unsavoury items. Seems p isltively to re-
vel in them....“ Sport (Queensland): You can
obtain the Queensberry rules by writing to H H.
Cansdell. Holey’s Gymnasium, Sydney, and
the Sheffield Handicap rules irom Smith,
Burraogong H0te1....” Gr. : Your letter received.
Have not been able to interview thn gentleman
named and get a sight of the original letter he
received. A weak par., veiling the identity of the
party, would do.no good. A stropg one would be
libellous unless every fact could bedemonstrated.
Next week, therefore....” BA.’: We have com-
pared the press copy of your letter with the
printed version in the Daily Telegraph. Un-
doubtedly the Telegraph has beeu careful to
omit vour strongest points. But wo could not
point the moral without printing the original
and the mutilated version of the Telegraph
in parallel columns, which would occupy too
much of ur space “ T.W. : Thanks— M.
Robertson”: Three banquets, a crieset match,
and a public holiday have afforded sufficient
ioy for one week. We keep your screed for our
enlightenment—of the gas probably, next week.
..” H. S. Invalid ”: We really can do nothing to
help you, although we fully believe that the rail-
way fettler is now wearing little JohnDy s pants
for a Sunday necktie, and that his best girl revels
in the possession of your bonnet with the long
white feather. Your only chance is to go down
with a bull dog and interview the railway officials.
As to Johnny, if he is really in want of them-it is
not a usual thing, but still we dont mind it lor
once—we have an old pair or two that might—or
we would even lend you our bull d0g.... b.N. :
Held over. ..“W.BK.”: No space this week. ..
“ Yebudah Ben Mooslia ’ : Next week. We notice
that oue line is, “How shall a guy know, he lies
drunk in a gutter.” Is it an auto-biography ?. ~
“Romance of the Lancer : Won t do. There is
no romance about them, except the statement in
the evening papers stating that they “are a use-
ful body of men.” Try something else, your verse
is good. .. .*' Yuican ” (Aibury): Not this time.
“ A Working Man ” (Sydney): Pamphlets received,
with many thanks. Give us a call; we may have
some we can hand you.
A sound resemblance—’Enniker and Any-
cur.
M. de Lesseps was thrown from his horse
lately. He fell on his head. Tae horse was much
frightened by the noi3? of the concussion.
Observant people say that Sir John
Robertson has much softened of late. They say
ttiso that this may be credited equally to his head
and to hiß heart.
At the banquet to Dan. O’Connor the sub-
stitution of paa-auts for almonds in the dessert
was not the outcome of an overstrained economy,
but a desire to fo9ter native industry.
The Soudan medals, which will adorn the
manly chests of our noble 700, in commemoration
of their glorious campaign in t,h3 East, will be
distributed on the 13th prox. As the decoration
ceremoay has been so long delayed, it might now
be postponed to April I—a fitting day on which to
Anally dsal with our fighting foolishness.
King Alfonso of Spain is said to have left
a fortune of over two millions sterling. 'J his, it is
said, was chieAy acquired by the sale of titles, a
traffic indulged in by the KiDg to an enormous
extent. Tne husband of a wealthy laundress was
one of his new nooility, and paid £300,C00 for the
title of a Grand Duke with ancestors for about six
centuries thrown in. Why did not Bir Salmon
Wilson, Henniker Heaton, Honorable-withia-the-
colony Lloyd, John Davies, and C. J. Roberts go
to Spain ? We should have liked them to go to
Spain—or Jericho.
In the race for grovel some of the Mel-
bourne papers are running us pretty close. The
Herald having exhausted its vocabulary of
honeyvd phrases over the Lochs, is bursting out
into little leaders on Lord Carington. “As an
arbitrator in a strike, he would be invaluable,'-’
sniffles the Herald. And then—“ His little speech
to tne immigrants <>n board the his wel-
coming words to the first arrivals from the old
country since he assumed tne Government, was
& master piece" If this sort of thing continues, let
us have reciprocity. Let the Noose find out some
of Sir Henry Loch's masterpieces, and tell us
what he would be invaluable at. Ana. by the way,
there’s an opportunity just now for Lord Caring-
ton to develope his special gift. He can arbitrate
between the bookmakers and the totalisator.
There is something dare-devilish and
Dumasesque about the burglary at the Bris-
bane gaol, which proves to us the robber was
an aristocrat of his class, and one who, if he had
looked after himself properly, might now be an
eminent Government contractor.
The “principal” of a school near Sydney
has deeidi-d to draw the line at the children of
puDllcans and admit only those who are by birth
and position entitled to rank with the colonial
aristocracy. This decision is amusing, for the very
promulgator of thii decree would not have been
able to gain admission under such a rule a few
years ago. It is an unwise relative that remem-
bers its own antecedents.
Sir Henry Loch has left Government
House, Melbourne, and gone to Mount Macedon.
He giv°s as his reason his dread of being roasted
in tne Yiee-regal head-quarters by some of the
vagrants who camp in the Domain, or being
smotnered by the evil smells which enter his bed-
room window from the rippling Yarra. The real
reason i 3 that Loch was growing too popular.
Colonial Governors, please note. A lot of.popu-
larity is worse than a lot in Purgatory.
Certain parties advertising in a Mel-
bourne paper for a dog answering to the name
of ’* Tossie ” hold out this alluring inducement to
the discoverer:—“ Finder rewarded with current
coin of the realm, and a vision of an angel without
wings in the shape of the original ‘ Tosßie.’ ” Our
Melbourne correspondent says that the dog
strayed into his yard, and, having noticed the ad-
vertisement, he took it home and saw “ Tossie.”
He says the sight nearly paralysed him. She was
red-headed and cross-eyed, and when he arrived
at the house was busily engaged in belabouring
her little brother with a*■ room-handle. He didn t
wait for the “ current coin of the realm.”
We can recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps as
the most suitable invigorant, stimulant and re-
storative known.
“Prevention is better than cure.” There-
fore use Wolfe's celebrated Schnapps, which is
a preventive of disease.
Mr. W. F. Fotster, M.F., F.R.S.
The Right Hon. W. E. Forster, whose portrait
appears on the front page of this issue, has lately
retired, to a large extent, from the range of public
observation. His chief exploits are contained in
the history of that period from 1889 to 1882, when,
as Chief Secretary for Ireland, he earned the un-
compromising hatred of the Nationalists. Using
the powers of the Coercion Bill to their fullest ex-
tent, he caused the gaols to be filled with
‘ suspects,” including Mr. Parnell and other pro-
minent leaders of the aspirants for independence.
hjs harshness in dealing with the malcontents,
and his unwillingness to release the imprisoned
Vf.sP., induced a split in the Cabinet,
I and resulted in his resignation. It was
during the period of his administration
of Irish affairs that he gained the soubriquet of
“ Buckshot Forster,” in eonsequence ot his order-
ing the constabulary to use those pellet* instead of
bullets when firing on the populace. Why it was
necessary to fire at all was a question without an
answer at the time. As might have been sus-
pected from his apparent callousness to human
suffering, he is the son ot Quaker parents, his
father having died while on an am i-slavery mis-
sion in America, and he himself was educated at a
Quaker school near London His first Parliamen-
tary candidature was in 1859, when he unsuccess-
fully contested Leeds, but two years afterwards
he won a seat for Bradford, a constituency which
he has represented in every subsequent Parlia-
ment. His wife, whom he married in 1800, is a
daughter of the celebrated Dr. Arnold, head
master of Rugby school, England.
r, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1861,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER?,
py Fashionable and First-class GARMENTSHo
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect/ nt
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
gs
YOUR PHOTO-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is hut well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices— C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
m H B A T R B B +°, Y A L •
Under the management or
Messrs. Williamson, Garnbb and Musgbovi.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING, at a quarter to 8,
THE MOST GORGEOUS PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
An Entirely New Vernon of the Old Fairy Story,
CINDERELLA,
HER SISTERS, HER SORROWS,
and
HER LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
or,
THE FAIRY GODMOTHER
who wouldn’t let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER.
Admission : Dress Circle. 53.; Stalls, 35.; Family
for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
N
BWOP B R A
. Under the Lesseeship and
Messrs. E. MAJERONI and
H O U 8 K .
Management of
W. J. WILSON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
and until further notice,
MAJERONI & WILSON’S D a AMATIC COMPANY
in
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
A PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
A PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
MR. JOHN L HALL
as ISAACS THE JEW.
“I’VE GOT A HEYE LIKE A HEAGLE.’
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson s Musn
Warehouse, 325 George-street. Day tickets al
Cole’s Book Arcade, George-btreet.
G
AII T Y
Leasee
Business Manager.
T H BATHE.
.. Mr. John Wolomon
.. Mr. B. N. Jones.
SUCCESS of the SUCCESS
GREEN LaNES OF ENGLAND
GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
Mr. DA MM ER as GENTLEMAN GEORGE,
“Charge of the Light Brigade,”
“ Little Jim, the Collier s Child,”
in „
THE GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
Miss MYRA KEMBLE as Margaret Wheatstone.
:THIS (THU R 8 DA Y} EVENING.
THE GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
Box Ollice, Nicholson and Co.
Tickets may be secured at Cole s Book Arcade.
Manager for Mr. Dampier ....FRED. GUNTHtE,
O
LYMPIC THEATRE.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
Suit-Lessee and Director.. M. LEON CARON.
LAST NIGHTS
MT33 BHERWIN In the BOHEMIAN GTRIj,
SATURDAY, JANUARY SOth,
CARMEN,
EVERY SUNDAY NTGHT,
GRAND OONCEKT SPIRITUAL.
H. J. SAMUELL, Business Manager.
A CADHMY Or MFBIC.
A Sole Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hiscocks.
Genuine Success of the
PROGRAMME OP PURE MINSTRELSY
now being given by
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Speciality Union.
Will only be repeated two nights more, in eonse-
« quence of the first production on Saturday of
the latest dramatised version of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
mHE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
A George-street, Haymarket.
LeSsee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Mlrstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS, of
CAPTAIN CAMPBELL,
the PREMIER VENTRILOQUIST,
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
T
0 ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including - Stage,” ‘‘Theatre,” - Topical Times,
“ Dramatic Review,” “ Bat,” &c., at moderate
prices. Postage iree to any address in Australia.
Write to ManaB^’ IMPERI^L CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
New Central Dispensary,
53 MARKET STREET,
Two doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.,
Pb. C., M.P.S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by.qualifled Chemists only,
e at reform Prices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, Tram Terminus, Sydney,
and Suva, Fiji.
Orders sent by post promptly executed.
Medicines forwarded to any part of the colonies*
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) can
be sent by post.
Department ot Public Works.
Sydney, January 35, WG5*
TWNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP*
PUBS.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol*
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For fullparti-
culars see Govbbnmbnt Gazbtt«, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when thetendert
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before th
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un*
lessthe terms of the notice are strictly compile®
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooepi
JACOB GARRARD.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
_ kotAii' —** Cinderella "•«• • p * 6 *
Queen's Evidence”.... ••••„ ••
ssssSS»S'B“f :
W wMSS'c.-feetal Mtnstreta
*;£S3sSs?ts£^
without a moment: to.lose He
.oppressor, and caoae to Ms alint „ on the
ev»«|. “ »^™ a^“„ 0 . M-elteo-
;»s Ks'e okvT/s A J a. Ban*.
a rnle of j. H. Rainford was ably sup-
rSbe rote ox . boof and the manner in
•ported by Mr , « thf , nl , r t was rendered proved
£*g*j»™ orße ?
that the old . e Doome d through the hall like
Baintord a big duf £ er sliver mine through tbe
the shares ot a auffer o£ a rella ble report
Exchange after the puo geological expert
by a capable and amuceieß paid _ up scrip,
who bad had to tase o heard her, Arline had
on u t en e tlv C found the exposure of a gipsy life too
evidently toun £ constitution, after a child-
severe balls. Miss Sherw in can sing
nood spent in mar niena Qft patti j 8 Bim ii ar ly
when she has not a w Gaiaor ) relaxes
glfte h *nf C the severity of his demeanour, and his
were, ho *9 though he were musing on
Lifo a ‘lvTaroh in Saul,” his representation
;S JSSpJSK o< Sc&'» /wore— In Walter*.
wang. # * *
~,a a ft Trovison was every inch—and two
feet! with a P-oPorgon of unto'
; *^?K y o^*“SSSrt^th^SSS : .»lS
either, The chorus dividual i y , an d a clarionet
ment, gets a won pre sume he intends to do
bis material, and, as we presa up tQ a metro .
* t rtnnStandard 1 of excellence, it should create
sjass— m Bu “ s ‘ re '’-
** * *
«, niruferella or the Fairy Godmother who
wouldn’t let&S,° fhf Mr/
sSSaa?*»3ffi™«
not speoiflod in me m a man or , aBIS more
to g h°,hifl hemayhave expressed a wish to leave
probable, he may na ended and go for a
De m r fn t the P ceme™ry in search of some amuse-
mlnt. A?yw C aThe isnot visible during tbe pro-
gress of the piece. *
fS ! S«“3
* 1 .loon^Princeand shares his crown, the old
marries the prince auuo a bsence of
man seems to be in a ohion:ic i sia and
half-crowns. He is barren tWg Btate .
S«n?of the progmmme we see no reason to ques-
Jmn 1 There P is very little wit anywhere apparent
?n the piece, and Baron Brokendown gets but a
trifling share of it.
Greville introduces a lot of funny business
«t« welwocewetf by the lons suffering Sydneyites.
Sr “e ttwaws
Srisafttw.ss
SteSoKf-S/s^dlnSSeSrdlS
JSWdI t»M the njrator has forgotten the
climax. *
Tohnny Wallace devotes himself with a
•&ar£sa«"
glass (f) snppe , faithful Buttons gets his
Then, ©t T S2'iJ made blown in the afterpiece, and
3nfHoathe B audience some of the pain he must
ndergone ill his earlier and less prosperous
have unt }^®vr“ arB B i nCB Wallace playsd clown.
allow a similar interval to elapse ere
He should fooir Ho is as active as a tired
he again essays the task He is M mem-
’ous nome and as |«weful th<j fftlry god _
ber—the . len h^“fftniaed i n Miss Julia Simmons,
-other, is hu“ m per lace; she sings
i little-not much On Saturday night some one
have 1 ere tii2
ass-1» * or< w»-
more. , * *
Tho scenery generally is good, and upon
it The success which has attended the production
it tbe success . Quinade we would remark tor
depeo ds. The bar 1c! is wrr tched, the dresses,
few exceptions, cheap ard common,
with but iew c. -.h tarti ] y ingenuous char-
Cinderella ]ittle to the imagination,.and
? ct ‘? r - Q lt iaw V soene before the conclusion of the
BhoTtXw^slw 6 more of the lovely Nellie than
we ever expected to.
* * *
The only musical item worth listening to
th« kissing duet. This is not new, but the air,
Hke h the cheflera, is catcbiDg, and a good old song
like the cnoiera, novelt The political hits are
w.srKsSU?»“»^"' K,s, b l iis
>asearch warrant performance as
s P d snoozes till
ISESriHKHi
birds nestmgou b o£ themaideosof
plex son f „oofl by Fingers and feet are mter-
nme company to an alarmingly intri-
“te mtimacy, bit the dancers eventually disen-
tangle themselves uniDjured.
* * *
«Pinderella” is a good thing-for the
„ , it is weak and wishy-washy. People
In the mrry Spectacle because it is the Royal
go to see tne m elsewhere for amuse-
’astonishing how many times men have
ment. It is a6ion dur w tne progress of the
business , g J? a j- oyouB character;
piece. managed by a captive earthquake. The
£Soo?=fleK»?thTe'.f thoy ~t out the
tepreseotafiou.
The Opera House “ghost”
its steps are not so firm as they might be.
“Queen’s Evidence” continues to fill tne .°“®vf
with up-turned seats and the m a “ BS ™ ent J[ |
grim resolutions. America appears at present to
be the home of this description of drama, and h
is almost cruel to transplant it. It ts too lull or
‘•thrills” to leave an agreeable taste on toe
colonial palate The English villain, as aru e
wavers in his rascality towards the end of the
third act, and becomes aggressively virtuous in
the fourth. But the Yankees
to the end. Their scoundrel is not to be wontrom
thA rjftt.hs of vice by the chance tolling ot a Den,
S by accidenYahy^'overhearing rof the™reabouts
of a loDff-lost mother. Such a milk-and-wa
rascal would elicit unmeasured scorn from the
frn wav-headed natrons of a Bowery theatre. as
Isaacs! Mr. Ha/monopolised the slender applause
that every now and then came from the» Pit. In
mittimr ‘•Queens Evidence’ on the boaras tne
management were, no doubt, actuated bj'thei
mntivpfl* hut the way in which it is ru
ceived should convince them that a chaok e
kind, even to “ Black-eyed Susan,” would not be
without its advantages.
m* * *
Mnvnham. Keenan, Bent, and Warner, at
the Federal?, hold the corners. Ball stiU takes^the
pont,re chair. Read and Amery are there, near
Dunbar is Porter found, Loo l f L rab 1 a ? uB W ßead T we
ner round. Pass the programme, let us Read, we
are minstrels now, indeed. What is this, tne
>• nverfcue ? ” Solomon! and this from you, better
warbled ’twas than printed; .”PaBtora " gamed
flnnlause unstinted. “First in the field wa
Porter’s song, and Keenan, who can ne ei d
wrong the°‘‘Lime Kime Club ” so gaily w elded
that all the gods a “ toe aft heel did, and clapped
and stamped and howled, Honk Gam
Samuel swung the club once more.
Winirs” bore Louis Braham on—the audience i s
svmnathv he won; and “ Who d a thought it,
Willie Warner warbled gaily from hiscorner; such
recall, he told bow could a hero fall. To rumour
e’er does Bent incline, he murmured, Love, win
be mine ?” and tinkled on a small guitar the
retrain neath the evening star h tb^ _ “i e
heard his numbers not, and w bei l h tb f ; „t *St ar
ho— ffot “ Moonlight and the light oi £ tar
rippled softly through Dunbar. Twice the
lin 11 id air in a voice ot richness rare. With t e
*• Dutchman's Jubilee” ended their joint nun-
at relsv • tnro ug h the “Jubilee” there ran sounds
ne’er heard beiore by man; four big horns by four
men blown, chimed with Keenan s large trom-
bone Moynham played a violin, for him to play
was viol sin We have heard worse we U gladly
Zul on violins with but one string. But his teas
wefk you’ll easy guess-it lacked e’en one, it had
one less Then Bail brought on an ophicleide, so
bfv a man could get inside, and Ball’d some mourn-
fnimSinTwe thought he’d blow it up each
B*flareMme^Tei ffiSftfi
|rtad B “ t “umb aSl pi.no UB t i Sereran h a° ““ fi
livfiiv air. while Turner as one
Same ' Swartz, soprani? (theyve vanous
sorts), was waroiing music soft and■sweet, and
Keenan still the big drum beat. Sure music
onnthpia thp savacre bieast —we telt sootneu wneu
f mir barsrest. When Bent broke his piano
down and Feuiflade’s smile became a frown; when
San fell into the drum, we went right out and
had a stroll. This ends tlie first part, and suppose
we drop the rhyme and write in prose.HVes;
you'll be wanting to join fliscocks directly.
Ed.B.]
“Pranks,” by Keenan and Moynham,
was a lively item; Keenan’s “Out in the snow
being a pathetic and beautiful air. It was illus-
trated by lime-lights (two limes and a tallow
candle) and the snowstorm was carried by the
vocalist in bis pocket. It was the old thing cut
In° Hmr DS-they make good snow; there is
nothing tolid iu them-nothing but wnat can be
evaporated if unsuitable to advertisers.
j|C * *
an?^£’ S old D vmage CO b“okimitS sSfwfre
fuhy earned Ta the^lattefnumber
cavern heats time on a flat-iron with a tsek ham-
mor* Wo have a shrewd suspicion that X) unbar 8
“edge i7made V ot leather; it boo easily
for ft to be the real steel-faced nine-pounder.
$ * *
The concluding item in the bill was a
drsperate situation in which ihe leading members
of the company took part. Beyond the fact that
one of the party was blown up by dynamite'and
the remainder narrowly escaped falling into the
vacancy in Keenan’s face, the desperation ot the
situation was not startlingly imminent.
** * *
The Sydney Gaiety is travelling merrily
down the “ Green Lanes of Old'England, hut it
is told ”on the whisper ” that the turning is not
verv far away. Hitherto, the only turning has
been the turning of people away from the, doors
As void is found in the harshest of matrices, so
nftthos ever to flourish under the most un-
Fikel? conditions. This was a puzzle to us ot.ee.
but we have become accustomed to it now, and
alwayB notice that the man in the Gaiety gallery
who is most unkempt as to locks, and unabluted
TV wordof our own) as to his visage, is invariably
[he most profuse in his tears when Mr Lumpier
vives his little chat about “Jim, the Collier e f’on.
Ernm the “Green Lanes of Eaglaod” the manage-,
ment must have reaped more than an average
return. * * *
The business at the Gaiety seems to be
“No” he said, ‘it’s not that, but can you tell
me whv a leading Gaiety actor, is lihe• the
Duke of Manchester?” fe 0 8t q 5 I v^’oo v e
to We would sooner read the Sydney Noo/n
than utter the answer to a conundrum.
•* * *
The bottom has not yet fallen out of
Frank Smith’s Maseotte, the Sydney Alhambra,
not does it seem likely to at present. The pro-
aramine is as varied as the manulactured article
turned out by a Woolloomooloo hash foundry,
and, taken all round, a good deal nicer.
** * *
At Wollongong the Lynches have had a
tae unwashed, but was refused this concession as
the tintinabulators had “made a butt and laugh-
ing-stock of the police." Revenge is sweet.
mm « #
At Newcastle, the “Mother Goose” Com-
pany are treating the locals to a snort season of
iirarna Good houses ensue. The
Newcastle run will probably continue till the ljlth
Konruarv with tne break of a two-night tnp to
Maitland on the 3rd ana 4 r th - h . Tl ’f
TDeatre at Newcast.e is to be scld on tae t
February. _ »
#* * *
“ Henry V.” has had another real good
innincn at the Melbourne Opera House. “ Hand-
some George ” must be about the only manager,
livTng or dead, who ever made any money out ot
KhairAsneare’s particularly patriotic play, and a
vooddealof it has been coined iu Melbourne.
-f’h?s d last revival was atter Dailey’s own heart.
George—it’s the proper thing to call him * George
when “Henry Vee” is being dlscussed-led his
warriors once mere into the breach with a grim
earnestness that set us thinking of the Contin-
gent. The Frenchmen weren t in it fiom tne
moment the first gun was fired. The Cont the
British Army rather—was decimated by disease (a
lot of the men did look uncommonly shaky, to be
sure), but the courage of the King was not to be
denied. Surely such a one-sided air as Ag A
court is unparallelb din the annals of warfare. A
cool 10,000 of the enemy disposed of for a paltry
expenditure of 2'i British lives. No modern Jxus-
sian bulletin ever furnished such an extraordinary
record. When Henry knelt down in his armour
and tendered grateful thanks to Pr PYj d ®
couldn’t help calling to mind a which
adorned the shop windows during the Franco-
German war. The Bmperor William, in an attitude
of prayer, was dictating a telegraphic despatch to
his wife.—
“ Dear beloved Queen Augusta, ,
We’ve had another bloomin * buster;
Ten thousand Frenchmen sent below—
Praise God, from whom all blessings now I
* * *
It isn’t given to many men to look “ every
inch a king ” as does Mr. Rignoldin his pet charac-
ter. We may cut our little jokes about the lime-
light and the white horse, nut all the Ba ™- e *or
that, George looks like a monarch-a Shakes-
pearian monarch. To say that he resembled a
latter-day crowned head wouldn t be much ol a
compliment. The high strung speeches were
given in the oldifamiliar style, and in the encamp-
ment scene he was very good. The number of
speaking parts in the play makes all-round com-
petence very difficult, to attain. Anyone who had
much to say, though, said it pretty well. Mr.
Annlehy made Fluellen amusing, and Mr. Meade
ratner over-swaggered through his old character
of Ancient Pistol. The Democratic soldier who
changes gloves with the King w«s more than satis-
factorily played by Mr. J. W. Hazlitt. The
army, tne mature white steed, the excited mul-
titudes, and the heaps of slain, all conducted
themselves as though aware that King Henry s
roval eye was on ’em, and, taking one considera-
tion with another, Shakespeare has been reve-
rently treated at Melbourne. The Divine
William’s work is not free from anomalies, how-
ever. The King of France and the Dauphin, we
notice, spo&e English, while Princess Katherine
and her attendant conversed in French. Notgood
French, either. To those days, evidently, it was
the custom for French sovereigns to send
daughtersto an English “Seminary for loung
Ladies,” in order to study their native language.
Such an accent as bonnie Kate spoke with is no-
where else acquirable. Apart from this trifling
eccentricity in dealing with the mother-tongue,
tbes9 fair maidens were delightful. *
‘ Henry V.” was only shunted on Saturday
when the •* oeople's George ” took a ben. with “ In
the Hanks ” Sims and Pettitt's drama runs this
wees, and now the deluge. Mr. Rignoid quits the
Opera House for the Sydney Royal, and the
Lottie Montal Opera Company reigns in his stead.
Of this something next week.
** * »
The Leon-Cushman Combination, after
doing good business at, the Nugget, have moved
their show down B mrke-street to St. Georges
Hall, whence Harry Rickards has just taken his
departure. ’Arry didn't, have the most intellec-
tual of programmes, but we believe he made some
money here. The new tenants are likely to make
more To quote one of Leon's feminine pleasan-
tries, the public have “tumbled” to him.
* * *
“ The Sleeping Beauty ” looks like
running on at the Royal. Perhaps our taste in
pantomimes is vitiated. The night we saw it we
were fairly full up. But that s just how the
theatre has been ever since.
** * *
Mr. Comyns Carr puts the authorship of
“Dark Days” in rather a new light. He is just
now attempting to stop by legal means the pro-
duction of a piracy of the piece in the States, en-
titled “Phyllis Denohr,” and in his affidavit he
says that, in conjunction with Mr. Fargus. known
as Hugh Conway, he ivrote a play called Hark
Davs.” from which Conway afterwards wrote his
popular novel, but ivithout his (Mr. Carr s) per-
mission. Fargus’ affidavit has not been taken.
He is dead.
** * *
In England it seems that at some of the
theatres the management continue to sell tickets
for the stalls aud pit when there are actually no
vacant seats in those select localities. Mi e just
stop to observe that such a thing never could
happen here.” In Sydney, if you buy a paste-
board, you always know that you will be certain
of having something to sit on—whether you will
find a place to put it is another question. But we
started this par. for a distinct purpose. We in-
tended to say that a man in London, who thus paid
entrance to the stalls and then was unable to get a
seat, brought an action against the management,
but failed to obtain a verdict, as the Judge ruled
that the sale of the ticket only guarantees admis-
sion, aDd that, as the plaintiff was allowed to enter,
the contract was fulfilled. This decision coincides
with an answer we gave to a correspondent a
month ago, which, we would modestly add, proves
that ihe Judge’s ruling was correct.
Thus a correspondent on the lost-in-the-
bueh circle-sailing theory:-“In connection with
vour correspondent’s (Cobar) mention of men
wandering in a circle when bushed from being
right-handed, you state that you doubt this be. ng
the real reason, and ask if horses are right-handed
too. I fancy your correspondent is quite right in
his theory, and may add tip at horses are undoubt-
edly right and left-handed (or rather legged), just
«« men are. I fancy anyone who has ridden much
on horseback must have found out the difficulty
of making your horse where there is no track on a
plain, keep a bee line. He is to certain to bore off
one side or the other, and this in eases whore no
homing instinct or desire influences him. Ihis
defect is especially perceptible in horses re-
auired for euti ing out work at times when they are
required to turn very suddenly. I hey nearly all
wheel round much more speedily on one side than
the other. I once owned a horse who soemed
unable, or at least unwilling, to turn to the left at
speed at all, and when a bulloekmade a bdjck turn
in that direction, he was sure to floor the stian-
ger ’ by making a complete turn round himself
from the right to get after the beast. I have been
to’d that some of the North American horse
Indians capture wild horses on loot by profiting
bv the circle in which these animals continually
run-they themselves running always across the
segment alone. They thus gradually tire the
brutes down. The question is a curious one, and
might be more important to horse racing people,
for instance, than they think tor. As f
pvnprience goes, most hoises always make fastest
time on a e r ® handed course. This fact makes
me doubt one detail in your correspondent s
theory. I fancy that a bushed man (right-handed)
is more likely to wander to the right than the left.
I wU not enter further into details ss to my
reasons for the bt lief, but I should be glad to hear
the experience of other bushmen on the subject.
However, I am perfectly persuaded that all
animals from men to tortoises, will, unguided,
walk in’ a circle from the muscles on 0 5,®
the nodv being stronger thau the other. Even one
side of the human or animal face is never exactly
the same as the other.-.) as. Atkinson.”
An extended lease of life may be obtained
by the continuous use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Avoid imitations.
Messrs. Bray and Licbtner, of Sydney,
have just issued the first number of the Austra-
lian Photographic Journal, a neat octave,
which should prove of service to amateur pho-
tographers throughout the coloniep. Since ihe
introduction of the dry-plate method of pho-
tography, the art|liaB become a favourite divers ion
with both sexes, and such a periodical should re-
ceive ample support.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps beneficially affects the
con titution and reforms the morbid habits of the
boiy.
Oriental Gold.
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction I
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
B
EG to draw attention to the REDUCE!)
PRICES of their
MigiiW Junky
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orienta Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s.
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladits’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best' American Plate, 30s
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s fid
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to lfis
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladles' (same as above,)
yar* These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ..
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
A written warrantry for three years’ acourate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket
£4 0 0
15 0 0
£4 10
£5 0
£3 15
£4 15
£6 0 0
£8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and giye our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected —about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to he charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, ss, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only ha,f sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4a 6d, ss, and 6s fid eae
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 3s, 3s 6 3,3 s,
3s fid, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 5s fid, fis, fis fid, 7s, 7s fid, Bs, 88
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be so Id, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifu J
gems at less than cost price.
Noth thh Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,


PEPPER AND SALT.
Only a few weeks ago we sang the praises
of a parson who boldly announced his acceptance
of a new liVing because the stipend was larger
than what h’e wab getting at the last pla'ce. He
was a labourer in no particular vineyard, but just
Worked where the best wages were obtainable. The
promoted cleric had the satisfaction of remember-
ing that he never made any rash promises to his
old Hock. As a conscientious gentleman, he had
felt that there was no knowing what the future
might bring forth, and so he carefully assured
himself against emergencies. It positively vexes
us to observe that the Bishop of Melbourne has
exhibited none of the caution which distinguished
his humbler brother professional. Only as recently
as last September the Bishop told the Church
Assembly that: “Perhaps there were two or three
years of work left in him. If there were, and if
he felt that he could do it satisfactorily to himself,
they could be quite sure that he should not leave
them. When he went it would not be to take up
any other duty in the Church.” Later on in his
oration, the Bishop reiterated these protestations.
Now, why is it that lights of the Church are almost
always too ready to proclaim themselves indiffer-
ent to worldly advancement? Let a colonel be
ever so attached to his regiment, no one expects
him to swear that he couldn’t think of accepting
a higher command. The most gallant of warriors
wouldn’t dream of committing himself to such a
statement. If he did he would probably keep his
word and stand by his colours, presuming a better
berth offered itself. A soldier of the Lord, how-
ever, is not troubled by mundane scruples, so it is
not surprising to learn that Bishop Moorhouse
jumped at the offer of the see of Manchester with
Christian alacrity. By why did he make that un-
fortunate promise ? Wo must be just. We sang
a little laudatory hymn to the obscure Presby-
terian parson, so we must also burst into song
bout the Bishop. But in a sadder key—
A WORLDLY WARNING.
Oh, Bishop! we fear
In September last year
You were hardly sincere
When you spoko
Of staying out here
Till your business career
Was ended—oh, dear I
What a joke 1 *
At that moment you
Had nothing in view
(No increase in “ screw ”
Let us say).
Alas! though, how few
To snug Billet dour
(That d Vanglais construe)
Can say Nay.
Ah, good Bishop benign,
That statement of thine
Was all Very fine,
But this Is
A jolly good line,
Which you couldn’t decline;
! You’re right to reßign
It’s good bis.
This moral is plain,
’Tib but to abstain
Yrom adopting a strain
Like you did;
; Yor the future refrain
> Yrom such prophecy vain,
Which outsiders must fain
Pronounce “ kid.”
* * •
A red-hot Salvationist was testifying lately
In pretty Penrith. He Baid: “ Look here, brother
Blank’s just bin and spoke a good speech against
the cussed drink. I’ll tell yer a story that is as
good as e’er a sermon yous ever heard. I’ll tell yer
straight and short. My father was drownded when
he was dead drunk 1” (Great sensation.) An old
German was amongst the audience. When the
operah was ovah, this crusty old Teuton let out
thusly to a few friends: “Veil, dot vas tarn goot
to speak aboud his fader dot vay. Now, if mein
son Bismarck vas to coom on dot der stage und
tell de beeples dot his fader vas drown ven he vas
dead drunk, I vould get up, if I vas in der blace,
und just biff him out on his head into der street.
Mein Gott in Himmel l I vould do all dat and some
more.” „ , *
A soldier of the Harmy, known in his sinful
days as “Dick the Devil,” was buried in the Mel-
bourne Cemetery with Harmy honours some time
ago. When the news of his death was brought to
the wife of the Chief-Bombardier-of-Beelzebub,
she remarked with a pious humour, not unworthy
of Pope Gregory of non Angli sed angeli renown
in his best days, “Don’t say Dick the Devil! He
is Dick the Angel now.” It is a touching faith
that believes a sinner may be transformed into a
saint by turning a mental somersault. He de-
serves an epitaph. And he shall have it, though
we Jose two hands at poker to do it. Here then
Hie jacet what was mortal
Of one whose life is spanned.
His soul has through the portal
Of Glory slithered, and
Is whooping up the’.Band.
Yes, we guess he’ll make a few sick
Up there, when once they hear
Rim rippling up the music
In that bright and shining Sphere—
’Twill astound them, never fear.
Six months back he led the revel,
And the unholy row,
They called him Dick the Devil;
He is Dick the Angel now—
Which is smart work you’ll allow.
w • *
Blackall (Q.) people evidently know how
to secure attention from Government officials.
Hydraulic Engineer Henderson and Geologist
Jack had been sent out bv the Queensland Govern-
ment on water-boring biz. The weather was hot,
the Government men’s water supply was ex-
hausted, they were stuok up In the centre of a
heavy sand patch, four miles from Blackall, ready
to pawn their souls for a drink. Mayor James and
Alderman Haylock were wide awake though, and
came sailing down on the thirsty ones with a
bottle of whisky, and a full water-bag. Now, an
an American water borer is set to work in Black-
all, and the contractor has orders to bore till he
finds water, even to 3500 feet. The derrick of the
apparatus is 05 feet high, and those Blackall people
take it in turns to look out from the top for any
more Government officials, while a rescuing party
with whisky and water-bags is held in readiness to
start at once. That’s something like practical
business, and beats out of sight our old style of
writing letters and sending “ deppytashuns.”
* * *
On Christinas Day, Mr. Roche, manager
of the Commercial Bank, Fernmount (Q.), died.
He was recalled to head office and his accounts
were checked by the Great Inspector. Poor
Roche. His balance was found O.K. “On return-
ing from a row he took a drink of water, and sud-
denly expired.” A warning to people who take
that kind of drink undiluted :
Ears have the departed dead,
Yet they hear not what is said:
Pale blue lips and marble brow,
Speak us, heed us never now;
Ice-cold hand and rigid arm,
Powerless for good or harm;
Muscled limb and brawn-bound chest
Idly lie for aye at rest.
Heed the lesson, pause and think,
Water is not good to drink.
« © ■
Magisterial humour is a common thing in
Melbourne courts. It is said that before magis-
trates are appointed down there they have to pass
an examination in Joe Miller. The person who
told us this might have been having his little joke
with us. But still, if his story is not true it
ought to be. Take an instance. A few days ago a
lady with a black eye was brought up before Mr.
Call, P.M. She had been found in that sweet
locality, Romeo-lane, with her shell-like ear re
posing on the kerb, the night previous. “ How old
are you ?” demanded Mr. Call. “ Thirty years,”
GOOD BREEDING.
SMITH (to Brown): “I SAY, BY JOVE! ISN’T THE MAN LIKE HIS DOG?”
OWNER OF DOG (overhearing): “WELL, IF YOG WAS AS WELL BRED AS THAT DOG
YOU WOULDN’T WANT TO BE SO BLOOMIN’ HANDSOME.”
laconically responded the lady, with the eye like I
the tents of Kedar. “ You have got 50 on the
book,” remarked Mr. Call, in a tone of severity, to
the polioe sergeant. “ She looks nearer 50, your
worship,” responded that dignitary, with quiet
emphasis. “Ah!” said the magistrate, with a
pensive smile, “ you looked at the wrong eye, per-
haps.” There now!
** • *
Writing re the frozen meat trade, a Press
correspondent in England asserts that produce is
not esteemed in England because it is “ colonial,”
and that although the home papers get telegrams
daily from the moat insignificant and out-of-the-
way place, “ Australasia, with its annual trade of
£120,000,000, is never heard of .” Ye gods! what was
the Soudan fizzle for ? Let us hymn our sorrow :
Can this be thus ?
Is all our kindness lost ?
They make no fuss,
In spite of what it cost
To send to Eng-
Land much in coin and men,
And do a thing
We’ll never do again.
No “ chop ” are we,
Our mutton sells no more,
Is’t meet to see
Our beef not to the fore ?
Rise, patriots all,
Our confidence is shaken,
If sheep and beef must fall
P’rhaps pig; may save our bacon:
We’ve gained no fame, of us
They make no note—
And, hang it all, we’ve lost
That blooming goat.
• * *
To the fact that no first-class tram-cars
are run the Echo assigns the “big business done
by the ’bus lines that run in opposition.” The wee
sheet's gorge rises on hearing that “a party of
mechanics rushed into the oompartment ” where a
lady with a black silk dress was sitting. Why, if
“ mechanics ” are not to approach a “ black silk
dress,” the Echo's owners would have to walk
home.
m m m
Lord Carington thinks that any one who
keeps sober can get on in Australia. A corres-
pondent write as follows:—“My experience
is dead against this. Once when returning
f rom a Rechabite meeting—l’d not tasted alcohol
for years- I was ‘run in’ by two tipsy police-
men, and fined five shillings by a magistrate who
had to be fixed to his seat with cobbler’s wax, and
who, having glared at me, observed, ‘fi’ schlinghs,
or 10 yearsh.” Since then I’ve seldom been
sober, am making money fast, and expect to be-
come an alderman next year.” So much for
drunkenness keeping a man back,
* * *
A writer for a small Melbourne paper, the
weekly issue of which is eagerly looked forward
to by suburban goats, states, with a naiveU which
would be pathetic if it were not ludicrous, that he
once went to call upon Bishop Moorhouse, who
was “ engaged at the time.” Strange, this ? The
persevering scribe was not to be put off with any
such flimsy excuse, however, so, brushing the
haughty menials aside, he bored his way in until
he was confronted by Mrs. Moorhouse. Let him
tell the rest in his own cheerfully candid fashion.
Says he:—“lf you had seen the adroit manner in
which Mrs. Moorhouse barred my way, and par-
ried all attempts to beard the lion in his den ? I
can assure you I had a dreadful difficulty in foil-
ing her. The scene put me in mind of the central
situation in ‘Forget-Me-Not,’ the duel between
Genevieve Ward, as the Countess de Mohrivart,
and W. 11. Vernon as Sir Horace Welby.” Thunder!
There is a modest fellow for you 1 There is
a bashful and retiring child of genius !
His similarity to Vernon as Sir Horace Welby
struck him all at once with the force of inspira-
tion. The idea is alike complimentary to his own
unassuming-worth, and gracefully condescending
to Yernon. We wonder what it put the Bishop’s
wife in mind of ? But we suppose she was too
scared by this spiritu—Lai.— Ed. B ]—apparition to
be put in mind of anything beyond for a
policeman. The reference to the adroit manner
in which she barred his way and parried his
attempts has evidently more in it than meets the
eye. She probably barred his way with a table,
and parried his attempts with a poker. But he
foiled her—with dreadful difficulty. This says
much for the nerves of Mrs. Moorhouse. What
the Bishop did when he was bearded in his den—
to repeat the elegant metaphor—the apparition
does not say. There are some things that pass
beyond the limits of utterance. The Bishop, we
may mention, wears thick-soled boots with square
I toes. He was a celebrated footballer at school,
| and it is said he can kick as hard as the Pope's
! mule that kicked a man into the Milky Way.
* * *
Dr. Caffyn, of Melbourne, made, a short
time ago, the startling statement that men rightly
counselled by science “could, in a few genera-
tions, produce first a perfectly healthy man. and
then as a sequence any form of genius he might
require.” Let us first put this into the form of a
table. First, we will presume that the healthy
man has been produced. H ere then:—
I First Perfectly Healthy Man wishes his son to be
an orator.
I’.P.H. Man marries into the family of Dan.
O’Connor. Result (if any): An orator.
Second P.H. Man wishes his son to be a poet.
S. Man marries a daughter of the House of
Bladen. Results (if any): A bard.
Third P.H. Man wishes his son to be a statesman.
T. Man becomes allied by wedlock to the noble
family of Dibbs. Result (if any): A statesman.
Fourth P.H. Man wishes his son to give pleasure
to all—trace his descent back to two centurks
before the Creation, and be returned to the Im.
perial Parliament,—marries a princess of the
Royal family of Bennett. Result: A son who
gives pleasure to all, &c.
That is clear enough. Now, suppose a uniom of
all these gifts in one perfon is required. This is
the method:-
Orator marries sister of bard. Result (if any): A
poet-orator.
Statesman marries sister of man who gives plea-
sure to all, &c. Result: A statesman who gives
pleasure to all, &c.
Poet-orator marries sister of statesman who gives
pleasure to all, &c., or vice versa. Result: A
poet-orator-statesman, who gives pleasure to
all, &c.
Two or three more mixtures would produce an
encyclopedic genius or-a jackass. Probably a
jackass. It is an ingenious idea for all that.
* ■ *
Down in one of the colonies—any of them
will do—the thing has happened before, and,
judging from the quality of some of the present
resident d ispensers of law, is likely to occur again—
a lovely woman stooped to folly, and finding, con-
siderably too late, that even salaried magistrates
can betray, she lodged a summons with the clerk of
his own court calling upon her seducer to explain
to the Bench—himself—his reasons for refusing to
pay her certain sums weekly for a job of nursing
she had on hand. But the “ beak ” was not to be
had that way. He coolly took the plaint from the
clerk and lit his pipe with it, so she went to
another court and related her trouble there. As
the matter now stands, one “ beak ” will have to
appear as defendant before other “beaks,” and
just as N.S.W. Judges can stand by a “brother
Judge,” these magistrates will most probably be
able to discover a legal way out of the difficulty
Ye gods I and these be our Judges. Bobbie Burns’
never calculated on the actuality of such men, or
else he would never have fired off such a series of
conundrums as—
“ Is there in human form that bears a heart
A wretch, a villain, lost to love and truth,
That can, with studied, sly, ensnaring art,
Betray sweet Jenny s unsuspecting youth ?
Curse on the perjured arts! Dissembling smooth 5
Are honour, virtue, conscience all exiled ?
Is there no pity, no relenting ruth
Points to the parents fondling o’er the child,
Then paints the ruined maid and their distrac-
tion wild.”
Now, Mr. Magistrate, just sit up and tell us how
you feel.
* * *
The man who has been whooping it up
with the boys over night generally has a thirst on
him in the morning and a head on him likewise
After pinching his hat on with the shoe-horn in
the early morning, he makes a break for the
chemist’s in search of a pick-me-up. But the War
Cry cocktail is the only instant soberiser.
Read:—“A backslider, who had g<st restored, gave’
his testimony. He came in the meeting drunk,
unknown to himself, fell asleep, woke up while
the prayer meeting was going on, asked a sister
where he was. The Spirit of God took hold of
him, and very soon he was crying for mercy. As
he stood up, perfectly sober, with bi 3 face all
aglow, and in great earnestness he said: ‘ Look
here, friends, I was never saved like this before.
Hallelujah! It’s areal thing when you get it into
your heart.’ Im'tit wonderful how the Lord works !’>
We italicise the last line which comes with the
paragraph. It is wonderful, there is no question
about that. Ask any old wall-polisher in George-
street how many Salvation hymns it would take to
put him straight, and how many times Sister Santa
would have to set ’em up before he came to. He
would say the operation of the Army tonic was
something more than wonderful—it was miracu-
lous. Why can’t these people give us an occa-
sional dash of truth. It would be a novelty—in a
religious organ. Observe, also, that he had never
been saved like this before. Evidently he had
been saved other ways, and the salvation had not
been the sort that staids washing—in whisky.
Bet you, this penitent will need saving a few
times more yet.
* * *
Mrs. Fenwick Miller, an English female
statician, a sort of woman Hayter, has recently
discovered that in England there are at . present
918,000 more women than men, and that the
feminine commodity is in greater supply than the
male article—ln fact, that the progeny of woman
is more woman than man of late years. Woman
has also developed a tendency to live, tfy four
years, longer than her species in the previous
generation, while man only exhibits an inclination
to cling to the silver cord while twice the world
circles the sun, in this generation, over and above
his ancestors’ average age. It is a natural suppo-
sition, in the face of these figures, that the male
animal, like the moa, will shortlr be no more..
Great gooseberries, and we are of the male sex!
Gall in the band
Mbs. Miller, you’re clever, that’s true;
We agree in the main, ma’am, with you.
But we’d like to know how—will you please
us now ?
When the men are all gone, you will do ?
Of our species the soonest was man,
In the first human race Adam ran,
When the Lord made him Eve (she was made to'
deceive),
And the trials of life then began.
From they twain sprung the people of earth
(Though of man at this time there’s a dearth);
At the start we were equal, your tale is the seque !
To the first sad fratricidal birth.
Dear Miller, let’s tell what you’ll do,
As of men there are rather too few,
For fear the race die out, we’ll warble your cry’
out,
Make each single young man marry two.
♦ * *
The following is a verbatim copy of a letter
sent by a strong, able-bodied man, in the prime of
life, earning -till the snirit moved him to loafin'
the service of the Loard—his £3 weekly, to a
widow woman who keeps a bit of a store and has'
trusted him. Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven;'
—“ Bathurst, December 27th, 1885. Dear Mrs. t
I dare say that you will be surprised when you
get this, and yet I must write it, for I believe it iff


the Lord’s will that I should do it. The Lord has
given me an earnest desire to offer myself for the
work of the Salvation Army. But my debts are in
he way. So I asked the Lord all about it, and the
answer that I got was to this effect: * Write to al
your creditors, tell them all about it, and ask
them to forgive you for My sake and the glory of
My name.’ And yet, dear friend, I believe it is one
1. "Will I clean this 'orfice,' sir? I'll clean it so as you won't know it agin, and as for charge, why I'll leave it to you, sir I know you're a gentleman, so T wouldn't
think of overcharging you." 2. "Meaud my mates as bin 'ere these thress days a-cleanin' of this are room-Fix of 'em as ad to lay, up from overwork. I wooldn't 'av'
undertook this 'ere job for a undred poude if you adn't bin a gentleman, I'd 'av' brokestones first." 3. "Not cleaned the winder? Well you wouldn't want me to be a-
risking of my life by a-sitting out of that there winder? But, never mind, I knows you're a gentleman!" 4. "Well. no, we didn't brush the cobwebe down, because we
couldn't find a brush, yer see, Mean' my mates was teo 'cle days a-lookin' for that there brush." 5. "I axes you as a getleman, now, could you expect us t clean a fire-
place? Why that's woman's Work; but," &c. 6. "Well considerin' that you're a getlelman, we shall only charge you thirty bob ceach for the ten of us. I'll take the money
for the other six wot isn't 'ere." 7. "Good mornin', getleman, We 'ope you'll be susceasful in your noo orflce. A 'appy noo year too you getleman both," &c, &c.
of the hardest things that I ever did. Yet I feel
that Godwants me to do it, and so I must humble
nivanif on i and t know that it is a hard task but
I can’t see any* likelyhood of paying under the
'present circumstances’if I did I would not ask it.
I ccmkf g^th'roughi'the' Insolvent and thus
eacane it but I don’t want anyone to think
that I would do anyone out of their money. For-
give me, dear friend, and God will reward you if
you do it for His honour and g-lory. And should
the Lord ever prosper me enough, I will pay the
whole. I only ask it that I may glorify God in the
Salvation work. The Lord reward thee, ftemembe
the Lord’s Prayer. Write at once and let me know
your decision. Also send acoount, and if you for-
give put it on, and for you I will ever pray. Yours
in the Lord Christ, . Pray earnestly over
this before you decide. I believe one has already
forgiven me. P.S.—I am sorry that I can't send
you part of the money with this, but the way
things are now, it is as much as I can do to pay my
way. I ask the same of all my creditors up there.”
* * *
“Cat Pool” was the name of a highly in-
tellectual amusement with which some telegraphic
officials used to while away the heavy hours in a
certain town out West, and the way the game was
played was this: Bach player provided himself
with an old Wellington boot, down the leg of
which he thrust a healthy cat. Wires were then
connected with the positive and negative poles of
a powerful electrical machine, and these wires
were then poked down the boots till they touched
the cats, which at once began to recieve a succes-
sion of shocks compared with which the soundest
kick of the Soudan donkey would feel like the
tickling of a peacock’s feather. Jumping at once
to the conclusion that the boot-holders were not
actuated by any friendly feelings towards them,
the cats would set determinedly to work
to scratch holes in the toes of the boots,
and leave that inhospitable district at the
rate of 15 miles a minute, and the owner
of tbe cat who first scratched itself loose won
the game and scooped the pool, which was
generally played for—” a bob in, and the winner
Bhouts.” From an exohange we learn that some
inventive cusses at Blackwater (Q ) improved on
this, however, and managed to get more fun out
of a harmless-looking piebald cat duriDg tbe
Christmas week than they could out of a dog-and-
monkey circus or even an aldermanic election in a
whole year. The game was to get hold of a Black-
water Juggins, and tell him there was a oat up
there that could scratch pull any man across a
dam. Of course Juggins at once replied, “ Oh,
that be blowed for a yarn,” and then a match was
made, the conditions being that the man was to
stand at one side of the dam with his hack
towards the water, a rope to be tied to hi*


waist'/, and then pasaed across the water and
fastened to the cat, which was kept in a bag.
No sooner was the signal given than the cat
was let loose, and balf-a-dozen spectators
suddenly jerking the rope, the man, who of
course couldn’t see what was going on, at once
found himself floundering in nine feet of water,
and before he could possibly recover or reverse t
he was landed on the other side of the dam to
the intense amusement of the spectators and the
cat, the latter tugging still at the rope like a
youDg bull; and a few minutes later a well-
soaked, able-bodied citizen waa seen chasing a cat
round the town, and pelting it with junks of
road-metaland profanity at every stride. You
can’t guess what sport can be got out of a cat
when properly handled, for there’s more fun in a
healthy Tom than all our pantomimes, minstrels,
circus shows, and aldermanic meetings boxed
together. m 9
Some one has been raking up old reminis-
cences of that deliriously joyful time when H.R.H.
the amiable, generous-hearted, Duke of Edin-
burgh made this poor land glorious by the God-
like glow of his beaming presence. That time
When we grovelled on our knees and ate the
hallowed earth he trod on; when top-shelf ladies
bribed chambermaids to allow them to go into his
bedroom and try on his boots, and pick hairs out
of his brush, and bottle off some of the water he
had washed in, and when one enraptured admirer
actually drank a glass of the said water and de-
clared it was “nectar fit for the gods of old
Olympus.” Happy hours i Will ye ever come
again? To return to the reminiscences, however.
The story is recalled of the ever-memorable
ball given to the adorable Alfred in Brisbane,
Where the chairman and prime mover in the affair
was a certain Supreme Court Judgo. After the
joy was over and the “Dook ” had cleared, it was
suddenly discovered that there wts a large cash
deficit to be made up, and that no man could tell
exactly who formed the committee, or who set the
splurge in motion. The caterer, however, who
was a vulgah, mercenary fellah, said he’d be ever-
lastingly condemnei if he wes going to be bluffed
out of his money for all the damdooks in creation
and, accordingly, he summoned the loyal judge
and' a few other notables for the balance of his
bill. There was no evidence given to fix the
Judge, until a certain waiter was put up to testify
to the whole truth, etc., and this man positively
swore that the Judge was not only present, but
took an active interest in the table decorations’
;;nd amongst other things ordered the removal of
tZ large silver epergne, “ for,” Ba d his Honor, “ if
llat thing is left there His Royal Highness will not
.he able to see mel” Screams of laughter fol-
Tovned, and the Judge was euchred for the full
amount. The next time his Honor took his seat
on the Bench, it was noticed that he wore a look
something similar to that of Hamlet's pa, “ more
, ip sorrow than in anger,” but the members of the
bravely went on with the business as if they
sinew nothing whatever about the dinner episode.
TPresently, a prisoner, who was up for cattle
fluffing, was hauled in, and just as the case was
about to commence, a Brobdignag policeman in-
advertently stood between the Judge and the
ock That was the prisoner’s chance to gain the
° -npathy of the jury, and he accordingly yelled
. \ e constable, “Take your wooden head out o’
h * If you keep it there, his Honor will not be
m m see me” “Will yez kape soilence in th’
v, want there,” roared the Spanish sergeant
r°°h L but the “ Coort ” fairly laid down on its
backand kicked holes in the air in its frantic
laughter. * •
A story J* going the rounds of the
»• wrntohed Prt'fls.” concerning Edward Booth and
•‘wretched Fire. gr£at ter .
8 Median which', the G. T. took, and handed to a
rad n ’v womaiTwho was standing by, and who very
sensibly preferred the cash to a cut off the same
Kece from which the brainless lady had been
served. This reminds us that rumour says our
own Cupid Smith has been for years enabled to as-
sist divers charitable institutions by means of a
similar osculatory business. Of course rumour
n lies worse than a continental cablegram
clerk or an epitaph, but in this case the probabili-
ties are she is giving us nothing but the solid
t uth Appearances are certainly all in her favour
time The offers made by young and beauti-
ful ladies to kiss our handsome senator are, we
v ..neve most numerous and lavish, and he should
see no reason why he should not turn the Phenom-
? Jiffs which an all-wise Providence has
m t i m with to the benefit of his less
J 68t fellow-creatures. We can readily under-
stand that his fascinations must be difficult to
IS 2 but nevertheless, there must be times
ILhen he sighs like the captain in the “Miles
dUoriosue," of Plautus-” Per Jove! but it is
J thing to be such a handsome man a? I
™ 0° . little in .bis line
lurselves, and are prepared to accept engage
Its for church bazaars, fancye fayres, Soudan
indents fo charitable shivoos, for
£SsE?»rW^o W ..»<i ™ etWtd
if-cr Liberal allowance made to two or
to ebar y. from the same families; board-
more and a matinee for
‘C Uwevir. bis. through a
old maws i ever y WedneB day and
in time to secure seats, and he sure
you get the right brand -
PIOU3 PSYING.
Pious Psying dwelt in Sandhurst,
Ran a church in Bendigo—
Humped the plate around, you know.
Bid whate’er a pious man durst
To amass a little hoard
For the glory of the Looard.
He was loved by those around him;
“Lol” they said, “his! sweet soul mounts
Up to Heaven’ -litl they found him
One day short in his accounts
Thus, though crammed with love of God,
Pious Paying’s now in quod. *
Our tram “stuok up” in Parramatta-,
street the other morning. A fter a few indignan
snorts and apoplectic puffs from the motor, we
subsided to the foot of the hill to recuperate, and
await the assistance of the next townwar ra .
At this juncture, a person, who had been mutter-
ing and groaning at intervals during the journey,
exclaimed —“Just my blooming luck, its always
the same. It would pay the business people who
travel on this line to buy me a buggy. lam the
modern Jonah. I knew this was coming, I spilt
the salt at breakfast. But I was bound to ride on
the tram, for then, my bad luck being distributed,
its effect on me was minimised. Had I walked,
I’d have slipped on a banana skin anl
broken my leg, or been run down by a
Chinaman’s cart. I am the child of misfortune.
Why it is all through my backing him that Despot
falls so often. The last time I had money on him
I waited till he was in the straight before I popped
my bit on him. The book had not time to write
my name before there was a yell, ‘ Despot’s
down!’ He carried a pound overweight, and the
pound was mine. I must be curst. Just the same
at cards. I held four aces once at poker. There
was at least £5O on the table. Just as I was going
to scoop the pool the police broke in, and the money
vanished in the scramble. Pined ? Cnrtaiuly. 1
was fined. Once I threw 54 in a raffle for a suite of
furniture. Very nice; it was morocco leather and
all the rest of it. Being a Church affair, of course
miracles were not barred. After I left, Father
Brummagem came in and threw 55, I couldn’t
say anything on account of the missus; she
attends chapel regularly. Just my blooming luck!
At billiards, too, the same luok. ,1 was playing
‘Chew Tobacco Charlie,’ at Weilington, for £2O;
the finish was close—l wanted two, and he wanted
10. He played and failed to score, the balls were
jußt stopping when an internal officious earth-
quake thought proper to interfere. The table
stood up on its hind legs, the balls came together-
cannoned—and then ran violently down the steep
into the corner pocket. Then, and not till then,
the table regained its equilibrium. ‘Ten shot,
Parti, as we says on the Continong,’ sang out the
marker, who had evidently backed the other man.
Of course, I appealed against such a decision, but
I had no friends, and the stakeholder-an old
snufflebuster-said that, after such a plain mani-
festation, such a miraculous interposition of Pro-
vidence on behalf of my opponent, he had no
alternative; it was clearly his duty as an honest
man and a Christian to hand the stakes over to
him. What blooming luck! I must be curst.” Just
then the tram reached King-street, and we got
down, leaving our morning paper on the seat; the
unlucky one grabbed at it, tut was, as usual, un-
fortunate, another passenger forestalled him, and
as we strode away, the las, we heard from him
was his gloomy, “Just my blooming luck; I must
be curst I” _ *
* * *
Dan. O’Connor has just discovered that
he is of noble lineage. It is always that way. Look
at Heaton and Sir Samuel Wilson. As soon as a
man gets up in the world he begins to claim rela-
tionship to Ananias or some of the old celebrities.
Strangely enough, no one has yet claimed rela-
tionship to Judas Iscariot, although we are cer-
tain that his descendants flourish in our midst.
♦ * *
The following is a gennine ad. from the
special column of the Brisbane Courier: Gen-
tleman (officer’s son) requites residence in the
neighbourhood of Brisbaue with a family holding
a satisfactory social position, where there is a large
gardeD, every comfort, and no loagers. Highest
reference here at disposal; full particulars and
termß in confidence (if asked) to ‘ Conservative
office of paper. Boarding
keepers will please not apply. That culchawed
officah’s son should come South at once. Wo have
families here, holding satisfactory sooial positions,
who would, in addition to other comforts, treat
him to a rose-water bath, and put his hair in
papers every night before he went to bed, and
wake him in the morning with sweet concerts of
angelic strains, and burn incense before him, as a
bevy of lovely, lithe-limbed Circassian Blaves bore
him down in their snowy arms to breakfast. Faint
lilies on toasted asphodei leaves, and perfumed
water would be served at every meal; but, of
course, if he preferred (and some officer’s sons do
at times) he could have cow-heel and tripe
washed down with a gallon of colonial beer.
There's another reason why he should come
South without delay. There is a lodging-house
law in force in Brisbane, and even though he was
the only boarder, the beastly lospeetah fellah
could placard the apartment sacred to the officer’s
son with a vulgah notice to the effect that it was
“ licensed to lodge one person only.” We have no
such barbarous laws down here, dear Duke, so come
South instanter. But hold. We must first know
what sort of an offioer your respected papa was-
He might have been an officer who bravely fought
and nobly fell at Sebastopol or Delhi; but then
again, he might have only bsen a sheriff's officer
or a second mate on board a mud dredge. Go
north, go east, or go to Jericho, for if you dare
come here, by thunder, we’ll ram you into the
Soup Kitchen and make you board and iodge with
the rest of our dodgasted deadbeats.
Bishop Selwy-n, of Melanesia, when bap-
tising two little ulggera at A-htteld the other day,
trave the following amußing account of some ot
fheresults of living among Christiana which he
had observed, when on a visit to one of the New
Hebridean islancs, amoDg islanders who had re-
turned from Australia, baid the merry prelate .
One man came rolling up to me, drunk, having
imoibed freely ot kava. That man said. Bishop,
Tam line a white man.’ Tnat was what he had
learnt from white neople. Anoiher man came up
and stayed a long time. He witnessed the Christ-
mas festivals in one of the island schools, and he
Mid. ‘BishOD, are you goiog to make races
Sow?' Ha (Dr. Salwyn) could not understand
what he meant, but at last he found out that that
islander had lived for three years at Maryborough.
He spent his holiday at Camtmas at the Mary*
borough races. All he knew of the birth and in-
oar nation of cur Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was
such as to cause him to Dedeve that taat and the
Maryborough races were the same thing. That
was all ho had learnt during a residence of three
vears among white people Flattering to the
cultured Caucasian, isn’t it ? Bat those niggers
were better observers than many a Bishop who
comes out to visit us. w e are surprised, however,
that they had nothing to say ot religious raffles
and Church bazaars, where half naked women
swing on trapezes for the edification of the faith-
ful aud the glory of the everlasting Hod.
Wolfe’s Schnapps smothers the voice of
depreciation. Ask for Wolfe’s and accept
nothing else.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-strtet
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia— by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a splendid tonic and
corrective for physlcial ailments. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe’s.
BRIEF MENTION.
Postmaster-General Toastmaster-Gene-
ral— Boast maste r-General.
The name of the present Inspector of
Hotels in Melbourne is Pewtress. Why not
Pewter ?
Mr. Inglis hopes “ the N.S.W. Ministry
will have fair play.” Probably. PonDybrooir
Fair play.
Why is a lemon squash called Multwm m
Parvo in Sydney ? Is it because you get an extra
large tumbler and a very small drink ?
Mr. G. A. Sala went home by the P. and O
steamer Massillia He took the gold ne had made
ia Australia witu him in two Saratoga truuks t ana
the golden opinions in a snuff-box.
We are told that on the visit of the Gover-
nor to trie Partbia, “the National Anthem was
played upon the bag-pipes in honour of the occa-
sion.” Requesting tnrough the bag-pioes the
Creator to watch over our native land! i es—
England's long supremacy is doomed.
“ I hear that you failed to succeed in your
business in years past,” said a distinguished visitor
to a N.S.W. ex-Minister. “ Yes,” said tne Politi-
cian, temporarily off his guard, I did fail to suc-
ceed, and the dodge came off every time. • ou
have not seen my mansion yet, have you t
Scene: The race dinner at Byerock,
N.B.W. bheep-farmer of the old school has dined.
Waiter: “Finished, sir?” Sheep-farmer: Fats
the charge?” Waiter: “Five mhillin s, please.
Sheep-farmer (startled): “Five shillins. Wool,
I’m nae deen yet.” Resumes operations.—WL-
caunia Times.
An interesting discovery has been made
during the excavations at the Acropolis. A tablet
was dug up on which was painted a warrior, with
helmet, shield, and spear. Under the figure was
an archaic inscription. It runs: Hon. Dani
O’Connor. Postmaster-General. A high aspiration
of exalted manhood.”
We regret that we were unable on Thurs-
day last, to avail ourselves of the kind invitation
of the Australian Cobalt and Manganese Co. to
proceed by steamer to Snails’ B*y, and mspect
their works. They held out the allurement of
some fine sparkling disinfectant, but the fact is
we never touch it now.
The AnTA Califobnia says “ The latest
popular song in Australia is. ‘Oh! straighten tbe
toes of my buried leg.’ ”, Will the Alta kindly tell
us whether this is a music-hall bauaa, or a Salva-
tion Army hymn, and wnether the author is
Douglas Sladen, Garnet Walch, or Lewis Scott?
We nave never neard it yet, you know.
The “Parthian” shaft—“ Any man will
be grievously disappointed who thinks he has
come ovdr to this colony and will be able to spend
a life of idleness and be paid for it —delivered by
Lord Oarington to the immigrants the other day,
would have been more effective had it been barbed
by> “ We can’t all expect to be Gus3y Loftuses.
In one of her novels Dora Russell says
“ These were the bright days for Annabel before
the fatal tree of knowledge had been plucked. W e
were glad to see these lines, for the mystery of
Annabel was puzzling us nearly as badly as the
mystery of the “ Severed Hand.’ Now we have
it —Annabel must be an elephant. Or a paddy-
melon.
“ It is not for me to describe our Em-
peror’s character,” writes Madame Novikotf 11 the
Gazette, “but I must say that if
there is anything quite repugnant to his nature it
is hud faith and deceit.’ Ho, there, minion I
Hand me down Baron Munehauson from yon
shelf. The fire is the only place for him now.
He’s behind the age.
The Gippsland Times says that a candidate
for the Wimmera (Vic.) declared the other day
that “ Ararat is now depending upon two Govern-
ment institutions—tne gaol and the lunatic
asylum.” If that statement be true, the women
of Ararat might as well not have got married at
all. It is not much their husbands will be able to
afford over their expenses.
A Southern publican was summoned
recently for Sunday trading. Before the case was
heard he met the witness who was to give evi-
dence against him, and took him to a convenient
publichouse and made him drunk. When the
case did come on the Bench dismissed it at once*
and sent the intoxicated witness to prison tor 4s
hours for contempt of Court.
Teetotallers claim that their favourite
ghastly drinks prolong life. That may be, but
news comes from Rockhampton that, on Boxing
Night, a young man had an artery severed by tne
bursting of a lemonade bottle he wa3 filling. Re
bled to death. If this had occurred to tbe poor
fellow while bottling beer it would havH been
trumpetted all over the land as another awful
example.”
The news from Milparinka is serious. The
Bullea River is coming down a “ banker,’ five
miles wide. An advance guard of rats is preced-
ing it. The front skirmishers of this army have
already reached Milparinka, and sat down to con-
sider the situation. Rats, even £ h ?n not backed
up by a flood, are bad enough. Bat, to know that
they have formed an allianoe with five miles of
water is grave. Tnat’s why we say the news is
Berlous.
Great and deserved credit is given by the
daily Press to the late Mr. Randwicjr. “ who vir-
tually founded the suburb ofßaudwick. But,
surely, a word might he said in favour of these
other benefactors-male and femaie-who, in
humbly carrying out the Divine ordinance, filled
the Asylum there with dear little child ien, and
gave the State the privilege of supporting them.
Our grief for the loss of Mr. Rtndwiok should not
blind us to the claims of others.
A Noumea paper says it will never tire of
telling the wond that no country op earth has. for
its size, as many children as New Caledonia That
is not all. The journal farther proclaims that ro
other children are so strong and well looking. Tae
editor is not, however, egotistic. He does uot
take the credit of these facta to himself. c est
le privilege,” he says, “ precieux pour les misrea,
du c imat Caledonian.” It is the climate, you see.
Not himself. But he may be over-modest.
“Wbat has occurred in Tonga,” senten-
iiously eays tbe Echo, “should be a warning to
the other missionary societies at work in the
Pacific, never to entrust their converts with
power.” To do them justice, they never do. They
leave them to wrestle with the shorter catechism,
while they themselves look after the land. It »aii
not a convert that burst up the i ODga, swindle.
It was one of the missionaries who elected to
collar all the swag and “ give away ' his gang.
The Bookbampton licensed victuallers
have determined to boycott any tradesmen sup-
plying those publicans who have commenced to
lower the price of drinks. This is a new phase of
the boycotting system, but in tho end we will bet
drinks round (Rockhampton old price) that the
cheap men will win, for the simple reason that if
a man finds he can get twic« as drunk in one
house as ia another for the same money, he is
morally certain to go for the double allowance.
It is only Human nature* after all.
It is said that Madame Adam, the editress
of the Nouvelle Revue, turned authoress in
consequence of her first marriage proving ur-
happy. The spiteful tning to say here would be
thut tnat was no reason wny she should make a lot
of other people unhappy. But it would not be
true in her case, though it would in the casts of
many others. We wonder, by-the-way, what
caused D. B. W. Sladen to turn poet. Perhaps he
leh off a tree on his head when he was a boy. It
was a sad misfortune—for literature.
Speaking of the hot lunoheon given by the
Mayor, an evening journal says: “ Tnere may be a
little more trouble in washing up the dishes but
a few Corporation labourers would do that work
if they got a meal for it.” From a close observa-
tion of the manner in which Corporation labourers
toy with a pick, we’ve lons sine© concluded that
It was in the direction of washing: dishes for a meal
their true strength lay. We would suggest, how-
ever, that by substituting “licking tor • wash-
ing,” a good deal of all round satisfaction would
result. ' «
Sale was once one of the proudest towns
of Victoria. When its oldest inhabitant was a
young man it had hopes of rivalling the splendour
of the metropolis. Thomas Burke was dragged in
by the cars into the po ice court there a few days
ago, and charged with using improper language in
a public place, to wit, the central street in bale.
The prisoner admitted using the language, but
paralysed the Bench by delivering a iong argu-
ment in proof of Sale’s not being a public place at
all. The local paper describes him as a low-look-
ing, vulgar, vicious ruffian.”
Another injustice to Ireland. At the
Rockhampton Court, the other day, the name of
Pat Ryan was drawn from the jury ballot-box,
and although Pat was in court at the time, ana
madly anxious to sit on the case, tne Bench re-
fused to allow him to do so. The only explanation
offered for this strange conduct is that Mr. Ryan
had, on the previous day, “ tuk a friend under th
lug wld a brick,” and as he happened to be
prisoner as well as juror, the magistrates thought
that, being a conscientious mao, it would be un-
fair to ask him to sit in judgment on himself.
Captain Jekyll— late of the N.S.W. ConJ
tingent—is Governor of Brisbane Gaol. A few
nights ago some mean thieves broke into the gaol
and ransacked the Captain’s quarters while he was
asleep. It will be remembered that at Suakim,
whither the plucky soldier led his men, the stores
sent with the expedition were “ scooped by a
body of loul marauders. Can it he the same
mob ?
At. Suakim the plund ring hand
Defied the vigilance of Jekyll;
Then followed film to Brisbane, and
Annnexed poor J.’s remaining shekel.
We are told that “another clever attempt
to smuggle cigars from the M.M.S. Sydney was
neatly frustrated last night by the water-police.
These clever people are up to every dodge. It is
useless attempting to deceive them. Even the
smileless Chinaman is over-matched in his eiiorts
to throw them off the scent. Under the homely
exterior of a Sydney water-polioeman there lurks
a Bismarckian subtlety that makes one look with
contempt on the ordinary “ bobby.” And when
we hear of their buying terraces of three-story
houses out o f their slender pay, our admiration for
their self-abnegation and [Try some other
lay.—Ed. B ]
The Catholic Standard has been ex-
pelled from the Catholic young Men's Society
meeting-room in Hobart. Bishop Murray, with-
out assigning his reason, and in opposition to th 3
desire of ten members and their President (tin
Rev. J. Murphy), ordered it to he removed Irom
the table. What puzzles tne Society is that t,e
paper lately received a special benediction fr u m
the Pope. What is that? Just as we write a man
comes and says Bishoo Murray hes ordered Joseph
Symes’ Liberator to be mailed regularly to the
episcopal palace. VVe know now—if that man s
word Da reliable. The B shop thinks a Papa!
benediction cannot transform silliness into sense
The Echo complains of a place on the
Glenmore Road, where, “ amongst other decaying
tilth, is thrown bedding both from human habita-
tions and stables. Here.it is not an uncommon
thing to see a cow, salamander-like, chewing on«
endofa long wisp of straw dragged out of an old
mattress, while the other end is on fire. The
peculiar properties of the milk such food can
make are not pleasant to think of.” What would
he have—toe cow to start at the hot end ? To our
mind the animal’s conduct is a typical case of in-
herited instinct from some progenitor who com-
menced at the blazing extremity of a former wisp.
The Echo man is dainty. He wants his milk
washed.
A Sydney gentleman went out one night
last week on the loose. He got tight, and picked
up a chance acquaintance in one of the Hotels.
They spent quite a jolly evening; they also spent
a few pounds. The new acquaintance of the busi-
ness man was not short of cash, and spent it rißht
royally Towards midnight they started for home,
the gentleman insisting on his tew found friend
stayiDg the night with him. Arrived at the door,
he discovered the latch-key was gone. “ There s
a go,” he remarked; ‘ I Haven’t got my ( liic) key.
“ Never mind,” reolied his iriend, " I’ve got my
esntrebit and jimmy here; you keep a look-out
down tne road tor tae cops, ana I’ll have that door
open in a jiff.”
Among the New Guinea curios was a
ghastly array of skulls. The people around specu-
lated intelligently on the probable means by which
the former possessors came by their ends. One
cranium, however, had a j igged hole in the top in
which—as a foreigner present remarked— * You
could rowl a c it.” It is possible that some Papuan
tribes are born with holes in their skulls, nut in
the absence of information on this subject, there
may be something in the remark of the alien
alluded to. It was “Dan Ryan left Cork last year
for Sydney. We heard he was wrecked in New
Guinea. 1 b’lieve it now. For if tbats not the
Ryan’s mark atore us, my name’s not Mick
Murphy.”
De mortuis, &0., is evidently a maxim
whiffi had not reached Port Denhon up to the
time the last steamer left. At least, speakmg oi
the late New Guinea Governor the P. D. Times
briefly and bluntly says:-“Major-General Scratch-
l„y tae first Governor of tne little bit of New
Guinea secured by tne Grand Old Man, has soon
succumbed, and we may hope that his place wiu
be filled by a younger and more vigorous man,
with greater powers than the deceased Governor
appears to have possessed.” Simply that ana
nothing more. Not a line about "Darling Peter
how we miss thee, ’ or the benignity of his rule, or
the fact of his having found New Guinea made oi
mud aud left it muddier than before.
Listen! We qnote from a Melbourne
paper. Describing the jovial state of that city on
New Year’s Eve, it says:—”Scores of turbulent
youths marched about fretting their souls for »
row, and creating oDeon the smallest provocation.
In the centre ot one group was to be seen a senior
constable overcome with the effects on him of tne
festive occasion.” Well, it’s a poor heart tnai
never rejoices. Bat after having read the para
u-raph from which we have quoted, anyone, wno,
It any time, in any place, and under any circum-
tances. wi.l object to be locked up as drunk anu
isorderly at the pleasure of the police must pe
, man with no sense of humour and ot a vicious
imposition. That’s what he must be.
What at one time bid fair to mess up the
Ipanisu complications a thousand tifnes worse
han they are at present is now happily averted.
Pne London correspondent of the Nooze, writing
rom the “Flying Scud” sixpenny cook-shop.
Jeat-stieat N., observes:-” in my last letter
vriting in haste, currente calamo, 1 erroneously
itated that the Intanta Eulalia is the successor oi
Sing Alfonso. I should have written Mercedes.
The mistake will not in any way affect the dynasty
rights of the latter.” Keep a stiff upper lip,
3 edes Your cause is on the boom once mow.
But should fresh trouble arise send for HenniKer
Heaton, and he 11 lend you the barmaid s skiri
which once saved his life from the assassin s Stic*
in Pltt-street.
It’is reported that a Parramatta youth
once* declared that his gal was so cross-eyedYpa
when she wept the hot, scalding tears couise
down her back and wet her bustle. Tn is is P™
bably only a dexterous truth-twist. Here goes t.
lick it, with a plain, unpainted terruth. in a mrg
metropolitan school a newly-appointed tea> .
had just taken charge of his class. The
were remarkably attentive, as all boys arei _
big city schools ( vide Inspectors reports), save o
who, though always sittiug upright andsteauj.
still seemed rn be ever gazing far away from r
blackboard. Twice the teacher told him to w
to the board,” but hts commands were apparent
unheeded. Again he gave the order rather sharp r
when the poor lad, unable to incur bis teacber |
displeasure any longer, blurted out, Please,
am looking at the board, but . You ar
doing so,” replied the pedagogue; wbatdoy


mean by lying so barefacedly Please, sir,
said the boy, “I am looking at the board, bilt you
are looking at the wrong eye I”
There was a great Temperance picnic in
Melbourne the other day. One of the local papers,
in noticing it, said, (“Only one man present was
observed to be drunk.” Hum! The reporter was
there, of course. But the tristful sons of Tem-
perance got a sickening crusher that day. While
their mournful merriment was at its highest and
the giDger-beer bottles exploded madly on every
side-a fusillade of fizz-the police-van drew
grimly up to the fence. The harmony of the day
was over. Each picaicer looked gloomily at the
other, and when the evening came departed home
with a dark suspicion of a'l men in bis soul. A
A Modest Effusion.
J ]
v " frJcaoA*.
*2)J\N 5 lo\ns/~
■ O .. A
tb'LL S'PeccH
Boil £ D jy
. cPi. “i
Q-f wiPf §1
ftp,
P J kT
ps!*m
l-'
Uttu .
f e «tJ
wSS^
fac/o /fa
fr/ ofyd^V
M T J i °jr c ; v .
"JCfi*- cdurayJ
Utk. \
Stesn
MyctfhJ ye -V ¥*
subsequent explanation by the police authorities
that the van was sent out by a new inspector was
Justly considered too thin by the Temperance
Lodges. The insult had sunk too deeply.
It seems a strangely paradoxical fact that
the poorest and most badly-paid of the working
classes in England are to be found in the ranks of
those women who are employed sewing and bind-
ing Bibles. The Pall Mall Gazette says:—“For
every heathen who is induced by the missionary
to use the pages of the sacred volume for any-
thing else than gun wadding, a dozen of these
girls are sent to perdition at home.” But wh«t
mutters this so the naked savage receives the socks
and samplers of civilisation and the Bible and
tracts of true religion. Our own women are in the
midst of Christian influences, they bhcuid nctgo
astray. The missionafy-loving savage must be
enlightened at any cost. The 99 white women who
fall are weighed in the balance against the blaok
who is saved, and the ebony-visaged convert has
weight to spare then.
A rioh reply was given by a porter at a
Melbourne suburban station when asked why he
did not come on duty at the proper time. I
couldn’t,” he said, with a pious smile, “ becuz I
wuz attendin’ of my dooty »t the Salvation
Harmy.” The authorities did not dismiss him,
but they sent him up country to a siding where
the sound of the Harmy drum had not yet pene-
trated so that he might be out of the reach of its
maddening influence. He had not the moral fibre
to refuse to go and throw in his lot with the Devil
Demolishes. “ What doth it profit a man to keep
his portership and lose his own soul ?” This man
evidently thought it profited so much a week
more than the Harmy could give him. Foolish
manl He will be crying out to Lazarus for a
drink one of these days, and Lazarus will reply
that there is not a drain left in the keg.
Here is a wonderful instanoe of what a
paragraph in the Evening News of Saturday last
achieved. In the “Brevity” column, a wharf
labourer came across this piece of news:—“l hope
we shall have a ham and potatoe banquet this
year,” said a member of the plumber s picnic
committee on Friday night. “ Let us get on with
the business,” said a member, and they did so.
That is all. The man turned tho paper upside
down to try and discover the joke; he doubled
the thing into a ball and tried to squeeze humour
or news, or anything at all out of It. It haunted
him all Saturday night; was mixed up in the par-
son’s sermon on Sunday, and finally brought out
elongation of the tonsure, and varicose veins in
the armpit. Late on Sunday he was observed in
Market-street with a pneumatic force pump under
his arm, clamouring for the “ Brevity ” man to
come down and have some brains injected Into
his knowledge-box.
As a rule, we do not publish, snake stories
now, hut the following has such a pleadingly
truthful ring about it that we haven’t the heart
to shut it out. The scene is laid on the Clarence,
and the tale tells of an inquisitive dog who saw a
snake sitting under a fence fanning himself with
his tail, and immediately started for him. It was ‘
tun for the snake at firiit, but, as the dog seemed
to have nienty of foot and bottom, and they (pur
sued and pursuer) had already travelled hair
mile down a lane, the snake, looking back at a
dog remarked, “ It s a long lane that never tv ohe
old pal,” and theß, swerving to the right, h' rns,
down a friendly hole. Putting on a final j ran
however, the dingo managed to grip the re T ®P U F‘ ; »
the tail. But the snake was equal to tb Aileby
goncy, and quietly slipped out of Its hir e emer-
eame away as easily as the skin of a rot -e, which
This being the sheddiDg season, of .st potato,
snakeship felt no inconvenience wb' course his
on the contrary, when he visited so - atever, but,
few days after they all ccmplimentf me friends a
smartness of his new suit, and retry -d him on the
it fitted him. But the dog felt; ' .rked how well
T so mad that he
went off and bit a brewer’s traveller in the leg,
and died from delirium tremens two days after.
It appears that the wives of English Con-
servative candidates have taken to kissing the
electors to secure votes. We always thought there
was luck in store for “Hodge.” To come away
from the plough every six or seven years and be
kissed by a real lady ought to reconcile any one to
seven shillings a week, and a pint of beer on Sun-
days. It is thought the new electors will strike at
once for annual Parliaments. We trust the cus-
tom will not be Introduced into the colonies. If It
were, few voters would go to the poll. The great
bulk would take to the bush till the thiDg was
over. On this subject the St. James’ GAZETTETre-
marks: “There wai a Greek form of salutation
called the ' pot' kiss, from the custom of taking
the person to be saluted by both ears as though
they were the handles of a drinking \ e ®® w
Against the introduction of thds .“ethod, »t all
fivpnta we strong 1 v protest. The ear neyeiop
ment of some country constituencies
without running the risk of having it foroed by
means so indecorous.
We recommend. Wolfe’s Schnapps to our
readers as an unequalled medicinal beverage.
Notice !—Reliable Old Australian Wines*
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockin gs, 143 Pitt-street.
I can appreciate a really good
that is always why 1 ask for WolPe s ScHnaPps.


Our
CHILDREN'S
COLUMN
We don’t wish to disguise the fact that we
borrowed the idea of this column from the Sydney
Town and Country Journal. There is no pride
about us. If we see any of our local contem-
poraries adopting a good plan we gratefully fol-
low in their lead. Hitherto we have not seen any-
thing in the Journal which we would care to
imitate, but the idea of publishing letters from
very young (and marvellously precocious) contri-
butors seems to be little short of inspiration—it
fills up so much space. Our young friends have
proved themselves equal to the occasion, and for
epistolary ability we will back them to knock spots
off anything their size and weight that Alfred
can produce. We did think of asking a number
of the inmates of Cal-lan Park Lunatic Asylum to
send in screed for a special correspondence column,
but a fear of inconveniencing the religious organs
by diverting the attention of their contributors
restrained us. Then we applied to a lot of subur-
ban alderman for letters, but most of them sen
replies in this style:
« Deere Booletin,— Karat right.
his
William x Sikes,
mark
“Wetnuss—Artemis Ward,
Inspector of Noosancls.”
And just here we stop to notice that Inspectors of
Nuisances generally manage to keep close to the
local aldermen—probably thinking that by so
doing they oan best keep an eye on the most pro-
minent and aggressive nuisances in the borough.
Foiled in our efforts to evolve a sparkle from the
classes enumerated, we went one better in the
B cale of intelligence, and having appealed to the
c hildren, obtained about a bushel of letters from
which we select a few samples. There is a spice of
historic interest about this effusion; the writer
will probably be a Hallam—or a railway fettler :
“Dear Bully,— Christmas before last I had two
big serves of pudding, and I wasn’t very well
after it, so this last Christmas mother said I should
only have one serve, and as soon as she put the
pudding away, me and Mabel went to it, and eat
till wo was both full up to the ivories. I had a
worserpaiain my turn than Mabel, but she put
away more duff than I did. I have read abbut
George Washington, and try to tell the truth, but
don't get on much with it while there is jam
about in the cupboards. Mabel drew it on her
fla'e.
“ John Ananias jr. Age 4.”
MABEL’S SLATE.
rinn’t
[You are doing very we , . * . -
think that George Was ng °° , . b t
him about cherry-jam; it was the cherry-tree that
gave George away. ld. .| ,
The next missive comes rom
wilderness, and slides along in this fas on:
“ Dear Bulletin,— My pa eepa apu ~
a lot of the magistrates around here, ne o
has been on the spree for six weeks and says he
won’t stay any longer, unless they root the snakes
out of the place, and pa says they ought to make
old Harry the cook a J.P., because he’s always
drunk, but Harry says he wouldn’t be oue of the
blessed push if they paid him. Pa always takes the
Journal beoause he says the pictures frighten the
horses irom eating their corn, and I'm two years
and a half old, and my name is
“Carington Smith.
“P.S.-It used to be Augustus, but mother
changed it as soon as the new Governor came. I
send you a picture of dad and the Jernil.”
The next epistle is from a youth who seems to
have a parson for his father; we never knew a
youngster in that predicament whose assertions
were more reliable than Nooze brevities. He
says:—
“Dear Bulletin,—l am three years old, and
sft. lOin. high. I can lick all the boys at school
lighting. I am a good rider. There was a buck-
jumper that no one else could ride and I sat on
him for two hours. [This horse was probably
dead.— Ed. B.] Last Sunday all the collection pa
got was two trouser-buttons and a Tommydodd
thrum. My word, pa did cuss. I can play cricket
well, but I’ve worn a big hole in the seat of my
pants, so I don’t play much now while there are
girls around. I highly appreciate that valuable
paper the Jernil. I think I will write political
articles for it. Pa says I’m just fit, because I don’t
know more about politics than Tom Jones' big
black dog which is smelling a good deal down by
the river. I can smoke.
“ MacElhone Munchausen.
•• p.s.—l am a first-class rower.” [Also a first-
class liar.— Ed. B.]
The next is from a very young contributor, so
eccentricity of composition may be excused
“Dear Bulletin,— My pa has got a selection
with a place for rabbits on a squatters run on the
river who is a bit of a boozer which was dry last
year and gave a silver cup to the show where we
sail boats and swim. My pa says he breeds rabbits
to sell to old Joe Abbott, and I have a white calf
which is spotted all over with red legs. Our house
is in Humbug Gully and pa calls it Heatonville.
Why is the Town and Country always black?
[Probably because it is seldom red, but we bar
conundrums.-ED. B.] lam one year and two
months old.
•* Joe Miller Neild.
“p.s.— l just send sketches of what I've told
\vou about.”
This following letter shows that romance
flourishes gaily in the Far North
“ Dear Bulletin,—l want to tell you about my
dog. He was trained to go every morning to a
baker’s shop for to buy a fourpennylloaf of bread •
One morning the baker took the 4d. from the dog as
usual, but in order to try his eleverneß”, he put
a ;%d. bread in the basket. The dog put the
basket on the counter and went out to fetch a
policeman just as T‘ve drawed him. My name is
“ Landact Bolton.”
[Good boy, Landact. If you keep on that way you
will soon be qualified to write Hf.eald pars about
Carington and the good missionaries.—Ed. B.]
But we have kept the best until the last. Bushels
of budding genius are contained in the following
contributions. Mark the fine easy Btyle of ex-
pression, and the surpassing modesty which
prompts an enquiry concsrning the handwriting.
It is a noticeable fact with children’s letters that,
although they may contain essays on the atomic
theory and dissertations on the transmigration of
souls, v they almost invariably conclude with
the query—‘‘Wot do yer think of me ritin?”
That is the hall-mark of infantile genius. Dan
O’Connor did it when he was young—
“ Editor Bud. Dear Sir,—
“ 1 read with very great delight
That pretty fairy tale
(’Tis very like a whale),
How one John something Pope bedight
Had made his little marble right
And o’er the seas would sail.
“ When Mr. Pope did life begin
A counter-jumping elf
(He tells us so himself)
He at the door picked up a pin
And straightway Farmer took him in;
Dear fond old tale, too thin, too thin—
Not thus he made bis pelf.
“ To steal a pin it is a sin,
Old Dr. Watts has said;
And further I have read
It takes ten men to make a pin,
Yet one can shake it and make tin
Ere snows adorn his head.
“ I cin’t rhyme muoh. I'm young, you see,
One year of age to-day
(Twelve months I ought to say),
But when big like P. O. P. E.,
I’ll pick up pins, a draper be,
Then scoop the pool and—o’er the sea
To foreign lands away,
Grow proud and diatingui.
“ Reginald Percy Trevor, aged 1.
“ P.S.—Do you think my handwriting is good. I
have only been learning about twelve months.”
We fear that the prospects of the next youth are
not rosy. His name’s against him.
“Ed. Bulletin,— Dear air— Please we got a
baby at our house. Dr. Smith brought it It
ain’t got any teato, auu it’s bold-headod, and got
such tunny teat. It oun’t !at, too. Last Tuesday
* gave it S' me paasiou-rruit seeds, and it very
near choked itself trying to swallow one. It is a
goat. Ma thinks the sun rises near where that
kid lies. She’s never done looking at it. Please
*6ll me some way I can put a set on it. I can
hardly get anything to eat since that young joker
came, and as for getting washed-phoo I Why,
if I only play blaoksmith with the kerosene can
and the taok hammer, they lead me out by the
ear and deposit me on the back verandah steps.
Please send me some infanticide next post,—
Yours, on the strict Q.T.,
“ Henry Parkes, aged 2,
“P.S.—Do you think I would make a good news-
paper man?”
[lt depends upon what newspaper, Harry.—
Ed. B.]
And this is the last of the bunch at present:
“Ed. Bul. Dear Sir,—l am a little ohild, a fair-
haired youth. My ma says I am a dove, my pa says
lam an ass. That’s funny, ain’t it ? Pa’s got a
poor opinion of me ’cos I out sticks with hia razor,
and play horse with his umbrella, and one day I
£ iok all the stuffing out of his watch and put a
little teeny frog ia. Gosh, you would have laughed
to see pa when he opened his watch at the table to
see what time it was, and the frog jumped out and
hit him in the eyes. He said some wicked words,
and aooused me, but ma soon quietened him. She
is a good shot with a cup. I got pa’s fiddle now
and a piece of tortoiseshell off his dressing case
That’s my banjo. Can I sing-
l’d like to be a coaohman,
And drive a coach and pair;
I’d like to be a peeler.
And at the nurseglrls stare;
I’d like to be the Governor,
His is a jolly life;
I’d like to be a married man
If I’d a pretty wife;
I’d like to be—oh, lots of things,
But now I’ll be most brief,
I’d not be in this Ministry
With Robertson as ohief.


“ I’ve drawed pa and ma and the frog and things
“John Dunn, aged 6.”
-r^Tirr*****
ou^r
fl)f\ h A
Sh oi fc/iTfIM \
r t/\ Cu>.
)Pa^ s J
' T A/n
A /
m saV
l n AM
I'd V-beleß,
These are all that we have spaoe for at present,
If the silly season lasts much longer we will trot
out the little girls, and permit them to Spread a
soft odour of bread and jam over these pages, and
we will go all we are werth that our female in-
fants will be more cultured and more redolent of
short frocks and dolls' houses than any that have
yet been permitted to scintillate ia the editorial
columns of the Town and Country Journal or
Tribune.
An English paper says that an analysis of
the lunaoy returns reveals the "remarkable ” fact
that “ Government messengers and workmen and
ministers of religion ” enjoy almost absolute im-
munity from lunacy. There is nothing remark
able in this. To describe a man as a lunatic yo
must presuppose that he had a sound mind. Wh
will say that men of the classes named have an r
mind atalt-or, if they have, that there is any
thing in their occupation which is likely to un
hinge it ?
We get a good many letters like the fo
lowing—from a Hay subscriber:—“ I wish
thank The Bulletin for the pleasure and instruc
tion I obtain from the leading articles and ‘ Plai
E iglish.’ I congratulate it on its truth and fa
treatment of all, and its clear explanation of th
true principles of Democracy. I subscribe fo
and read, the Queenslander, Australasian, ant
Sydney Mail, besides Knowledge and Sole no
Gossip, and of all papers 1 think The Bulleti
the fairest in treatment. lam glad to see that al
thoughtful workers read and aamire it.”
The manager of the Empire Club, London
has defalcated to the extent of £15,000. He ha
been suspended. A poor underpaid, half-starved
clerk, who had stolen a sovereign from the till o
his employer, was sentenced the same day at Bow
street Poliee Court to three months’ imprison
ment. One was a thief, the other a defaulter. Tb
odds is all the difference. Honesty is the best
policy, brethren, but if you do go wrong don’t le
it be for a little thing—
*’ Twere mean to rob a henroost of a hen,
But stealing thousands makes us gentlemen.”
In the political trials, opening in Warsaw
17 lawyers are retained for the defence, twice a
many for the prosecution, and the number o '
witnesses subpoenaed is 193. How the Cza
laughed when he heard of all this money going
over to the law! One time a good impulse used to
stir him in such circumstances. He used to thiDk
it fair to tell the prisoners to keep their money, fo
that he wasn’t going to alter the sentences he had
arranged, even if it rained lawyers. But he wa
young then. Now he merely laughs, and the
lawyers, finding the humour infectious, laugh
too.
A camp-fire idyll“ Well, Billy, you bin
long a Sydney ?” “ Yes, me bin long a that fella ’
What name, that one bln like it ?” •• Ob, like it
old man oamp, that one; plenty white fella sii;
down long a that oae bi« smoke.” " Which way
him bin make it clothes?” “My word, I bin b'g
fella Jaugh long a that one; him bin all day put
em billy can long a cocoanut and carry ’em
waddy and pioanniny tent.” This boy had marked
the black plug hats, the walkiDg-cane, and um-
brella, and in his untutored eloquence spoke thus
of them in his glowing description of the shining
lights of Bydney.
Here is an account of the latest English
execution. It is well to keep a record of them.
Public archives will be to the student of the
future as interesting as the Tower of London is
to us. They will show the barbarism of the people
who reconcile themselves to the like of this:—
’ The prison clock struck 8, the trap was released,
and the oulprit, Robert Goodale, disappeared. To
the surprise of the spectators the halter imme-
diately recoiled. Upon the warders running to
the pit, they found that the sudden shock and the
weight of the victim’s body had caused the head
to beoome entirely severed from the body.
Goodale stood sft. llin., and weighed 15st, and the
hangman allowed a drop of six feet.”
Whatever Graham Berry may have to
answer, it cannot be more than " Madame Berry ”
will be held accountable for. Madame is the
flourishing Viotorian gold miae in the Creswiek
district now,and for four years past paying monthly
lOj. dividends on a paid-up capital of only 17s. 6 .
Ihe shares now stand at £3O, and the problem
with speculators is which way will the rich gutter
run, and whither will it turn on getting out of tho
confines of the Berry claim? This claim is so
large that the problem oaonot be practically
solved therein for another sov*-n years, judging
by the progress made during the last four. Ac
north and north-east lies the Berry Consols, the
Berry No. 3, the Earl Beaconsfleld, and the Hep-
burn Estate claims. In all these mines the shares
stand at from £5 to £7. on the probability, which is
a mere possibility only, that the Madame Berry
g utter may turn in one of their directions. We
read of old that “faith could remove mountains.”
About Creswick we see it making them in the
heaps piled up around the mines and taken fro
the shafts and drives below.
From the S.F. Argonaut For yea
half the editorial columns in amateurdom, rough r
estimated, have contained at the top, in sma 1
type, Amateur Journalism! the noblest imtit
non ever engaged in by the American youth.
Speaker Randall. Tnis expression ■ originated
curiously. One day a delegation of amateurs
waited upon the Speaker to secure, if poasib e,
his aid in obtaining for them second-class rate
Jse was busy, and all the boys could get out i
him was, I don’t know anything about amateu
journalism. ‘Well,’ persisted one of the vis
tors, don t you think it is the noblest institute
ever engaged in by the American youth
Thunder l yes ; I suppose so; I am busy
answered the statesman.”
At the Newoastle, N.8.W., Police Cour
lately, it was feared that some difficulty woulc
arise in swearing the witnesses in an assault cas
between Mahommedans. There was no copy
the Koran obtainable, but the witnesses obliging r
consented to be sworn on the revised edition
the Bible. This willingness to overcome th
obstacle to their testimony being received prove
that they would quite as readily have taken th
oath on a copy of Webster's Unabridged or the la
Goa'ernmeni Gazette. They declared the oat
taken on the Bible to be binding on their con-
sciences. No doubt it was. go would an oath o
the Koran be to some of our Christian witnesse
in Courts of Justice. Many of them would take
oaths for a “ deep sinker ”
Three agricultural labourers went beggin
in the streets of London one day lately. The '
promptly found themselves in the Westminste
.The presiding magistrate ordere
their hands to be examined. The asustant-g ole
performed the operation, and testified that th
men had done “ a good deal of hard work in the: r
time. As you nave done a good deal of hare
work in your time,” said the magistrate, “ I’ll onl
give you three day«’ apiece.” Sydney is the ant
nodes ot London. When men are brought to cour
here their best chance for an easy let-down lies i
their sho wing that they never did any hard wor r
at all. If they can show beside that they hav
connections who never do any hard work either
once let out, or pn adjournment
will be made to enable someone to flx the matte
up and stop further proceeding.
Three and four years ago Melbourne and
victoria generally had a tin-mining fever. I
raged virulently then as the land fever has beer
lately doing. The locality from which thetrea
sure of tin was to be got was chiefly at Heems
kirk, on the Tasmanian Goast. one of the hun-
dred claims taken no there was “the Montagu’
adj fining to the “ Cromwell” claim. The latter
collapsed a year ago, and left its costly machinery
imported trom America, rotting on the ground
Toe Montagu has hai better luck-just a little
better and that is all. All its property—lease
machinery, tools, and everything, lock
stock, and barrel—were sold off by auction las ;
wee^ ir l Melb 9 urae ' and fetched £5Ol Three years
ago JO shares in tl-.e company would have fetched
this amount. It is old Solomon, we believe, who
writes ot riches making unto itself wings.”
Melbourne publicans take a lot of beating.
The other day one of them had a visit from the
excise officer, who wanted to inspect his stock of
grog. The officer soon discovered that bonifaee
had some inferior brandy in a bottle labelled with
Hennessy s brand, and at once seized the bottle,
and intimated his intention of prosecuting. Before
taking tne bottle away the excise offioer allowed
the publican to put a seal on the bottle so as it
could not be tampered with before it was pro-
ducedm court. The day before the cwe was to
be heard, the hotelkeeper called at H.M. Custom-
house, and asked to be permitted to inspect the
bottle. His request was at once complied with.
tbe ,P ubilcai i accidentally (as it were) dropped
the bottle on the floor, anu its contents dis-
appeared. The next day the case was called on in
buc there was no appearance, as
the defendant had destroyed the only means of
evidence against him.
After an Englishman had done talking
about Captain Mathew Webb, and extolling his
merits as a swimmer, a Yankee rose and addressed
the meeting. * Gentlemen,—Some years ago a
good many now, it came on to rain pretty heavy.
Forty days according to the Book. That was the
moßt consecutive spell of dampness on record
An old Boston whaler, namnd Noah, put to sea and
faced the wep weather. Ho had an assortment of
birds and beasts and creeping things, together
with his wife and some relations. After he ha
been riding the gale a fortnight, one exceptional
wet Yankee drew up alongside and haile
r . * ‘ do you want T asked Noah. ‘ Let
in. Can’t, ain’t got enough provender for th
animals, if this wet spell holds out.’ * But I'm
getting wet to the skin.’ ‘ Can't help that.’ ‘Oh
well, replied the Yank, as he cleaved the brin
with a strong over-arm stroke, ‘shove aloDg witi
your —=— menagerie, it’s only a passing shower.’
And once more they recited the little story of
Washington. By the way, its no wonder th
Americans set a lot of store by Washington—ther
are so few over there like him.
If a man is attaoked by one stronger
muscla and more skilled in boxing and wrestlin
than himself is he justified in using any othe
weapons but those with which nature has pro
vided him ? The Herald says decidedly ho is no
so justified; that he is a cowardly rascal. On Fri
day last an honest man seized a thief. “Th
thief,” says the report, ‘‘made a frantic effort t
get away from the iron grip of the other, who is
powerful man, and, on finding that assistance wa
iutile, the cowardly rascal took a handkerchief, i
which was a stone, from his pocket, and struck
his captor over the eye.” Putting aside the fac
that one man was honest and the other a thief
Herald ethics teach us that powerful men with f
grip of iron must only be opposed with doublec
fists; bank managers who use revolvers to repe
burglars henceforth must be branded as cowards
Tiny Films, as he walks aorosj Hyde Park at la m
after sending the news-formes to press, must dis
card his little leaden-aobhed life-preserver; Eng
land, when again she goes to war, must arm her
soldiers and her ships with artillery of the sarm
degree of effectiveness as that proposed by the
enemy.
So the Duke of Bedford intends to “ secede
from the Liberal ranks,” if Mr. Gladstone yields to
the demands of “justice for Ireland.” Reuter
cabled over the news as though it indicated
grave calamity. Great Scott I The professed
Liberalism of toe Duke of Bedford has never been
other than a grim joke. The old man is, from
family tradition and narrow-minded inclination
the most hopelessly irreelaimatle of Tories, buch
a one as the Marquis of Salisbury is an advancer
reformer compared with “ Liberals ” of Bedford’s
stamp. The Duke is ground landlord of all the
property round Covoni Garden, and to his miser-
able pig headed and grasping policy the scandal-
ous condition of London's fruit and vegetable
market is attributable. The dear Duke opposes
improvements tooth and nail. Leases on the Bed-
ford estates are more autocratic in their drafting
than those of any other London landowner. He
has clostdwhat would be popular thoroughfares
with big iron gates, to the inconvenience of thou-
sands of the public. All the Duke’s life has been
devoted to opposing progress where he dared, anc
his name is held In contempt by the Radical Press
This is the man who threatens to secede from the
Liberal ranks if any liberties are granted to the
Irish. May he keep his word. Freed from such
an incubus the Liberal ranks will march along a
little quicker.
The Salvation Army ’vert who gave him-
self away by owning up on the penitent’s form to
a robbery committed in Melbourne many moons
before, and who received a three-years’ “ stretch
in the stir,” for his trouble, is likely to have his
broad arrow-stamped laurels captured by an Ade-
laide ass, who bears the dulcet name of George
Robert Scrymgore. In a recent issue of the South
Australian Advertiser George inserted the
following startling ad,:—“Dear Jane,—l hereby
swear that I was duly married at the Supreme
Court House, Adelaide, to one Jane Thompson
Caldwell. Ido not recollect the date nor the year,
but 1 thiDk it was in the year 1869 (in Mayi, and
knowing the same to be true when I married you,
I was deceiving you, but it was my great love for
you, dear, that made me do it, dear. I know now
that my first wife is living, and that you are free
to marry whoever you like. I hereby swear thatl
married Mary Jane Larkin under a false name, and
having signed my name Walter, when I knew it to
be George Robert Scrymgore. The above is
strictly true, and I call God as my witnes. (Sigaed)
George Robert Scrymgore. You can get my
marriage lines by sending to the Supreme Court-
house, Adelaide.” By oalling at her Majesty’s
Gaol, Adelaide, dear Jane will probably be able to
get her guileless George as well, for a clearer con-
fession of bigamy is not yet on record. It may be
possible that Mr. Scrymgore is tired of his new
love, and wiihes to get on with his old lore once
more, but the probabilities are he is tired of both,
and his medical adviser, like Mr. Garrett’s, orders
a spell of holy calm and dignified retirement.
Two hundred children from the Progres-
sive Lyceum and Secular Sunday School held their
annual picnic at Athol Gardens on Sunday last.
They marched from West’s Rooms in Castlereagh-
street to the Circular Quay behind a brass band,
waving banners on which were inscribed their
mottos and the Dames of the pioneers of Free-
thought all over the world. They tramped along
gaily in ail the pomp and circumstance of peace,
innocence, and Sunday clothes. No one hooted
them or stoned them* the police did not take their
names and address. A notable sign of the times,
my masters, the most reverend. On their arrival
at the Gardens they revelled in games of every
description and sang at' intervals, for the delecta-
tion of some 800 visitors. Then they ate and
danced it down, and ate and danced again, and so
on, da capo. W. W. Collins spoke a few kindly
words to them during the afternoon. He tolcl
them of the power, the enormous possibilities
of littlu things, even such little ones as they were;
he then reminded them of the great respoDSibili-
tiei which were theirs in the future. A May-pole
dance concluded the day’s sport. It was a pretty
sight and made every one feel quite beatific 1 ; no
one thought it wrong, the sun shone as if it was
a pleasure to him, tne bretze kept stealing up
from the bay bringing little invigorating whiffs of
the briny with him. The Devil was not present,
we looked behind several trees but failed to un-
earth him; we didn’t even discover a hull-dog ant,
but we saw a policeman, who had the grace to
seem quite ashamed of himself, his duties were
so clearly somewhere else. We watched him, he
was sorely tempted to doff his garb of authority
and join in the May-pole dance, but as there was
not room for ti.i feet in the circle he wisely re-
frained. We went dewn in the Young Mick, a
boat admirably suited for an aquatic funeral, but
somewhat out of place at a one-day s picnic.
It is acknowledged on all sides in England
that it was only the Irish vote and influence that
saved the Tory parly from the most ignominious
of defeats at the recent election. Had the Irish
been left to their own devices, and been allowed
to support the Liberals, the followers ot Glad-
stone and Chamberlain would have been numerous
enough to outvote the Tories and Parnellites
combined. As it is, Mr. I’arnell stands as arbiter
pugnae, caring nothing for the differences of par-
ties, but able to make Government impossible un-
less his demands be conceded. Mr. T. P. O’Con-
nor, who is credited with al> the glory of the re-
cent ? OU P< when interviewed by a representative of
the Pall Mall Gazette, produced lists to prove
that no less thaD 65 Liberals had been defeated in
Kogland and Scotland by means of the compact
Home Rule vote against them. Although the
Irish vote in many constituencies was numerically
insignificant, yet in cases when the parties were
equally oivided the solid vote of the Irish was »11
important. “In future,” says Mr. O Connor, “the
v « i? 88 a R word ia the hands of the leaders
of toe National League, to be cast into which ever
scale they decide. It will be disposed of solid in
the interests of Ireiat d, with absolute disregard of
I“®,. interests of English narties.” He says
lurcher that the approach of Home Rule is “as
certain as the rising of the sun. A solid
phalanx of 86 pledged Nationalists in the centre of
5P® lI OUB ® of Commons is the governing fact of
the situation. Ihe Liberals may go in, the Tories
may come out, but that makes no difference to us.
We shall use both parties with a single eye to
Ireland s well-being. We have a definite purpose,
m aod a as solid as a stone
wall. We hold the fortunes of the Conservatives in
the hollow of our hands.” Mr. O'Connor defines
Home Rule as being; “Ireland like Canada.
No Irish members in the Imperial Parlia-
rnent. No contributions for the Imron,|
expenditure. No share in the National Q.-bt,
Ireland, in short like Canada.” Despite the
tact that £12,000 a year will have to be paid
to the Irish members to support them in
London during: the Session, the Parnellites do not
anticipate any trouble in the collection of that or
a much greater amount. Irishmen in every
foreign land have made the cause their own, and
subscribe with the utmost eagerness, so that Mr.
O’Connor is confident of being able to raise four
times as much if required. He is a worthy lieu-
tenant to Mr. Parnell. How is it that all the
O’Connors are clever 1 Here, in Sydney, we have
the “jaynil” ore, and J. G. both worthy
bearers of the historic name.
We ranged up alongside a shoeblack’s
place of business on Friday afternoon to get our
uppers polished. He had his grievance. Life
even to a shoeblack is not all sunshine. “ Th*-se is
a easy pair to shine, sir,” he remarked. “Yes.”
we replied, “we weir none but the most expen-
sive goods." “Ah," he continued, as he laid a
half inch coat of Day and Martin on the extremity
of our pants, and patted our pet corn with the
heel of his fist, “ I gets some rough 'uns here some-
times; yesterday one o’ them there Sydney Lan-
cers sent me down a new pair of long boots to be
burnished. Well, it took four coats o’ blackin’
and an ’our’s work. You know what new boots is
—(we confessed to an occasional acquaintance
with the novelty)—and I rubbed till my arms
ached. When he sent the boy for them ne for-
warded threejwyce. I put it back in the boot and
another threepence in the other one, and told the
boy to give my compliments to the Lancer and
say I was sorry he was a little short.” “You’ll
clean them again,” we remarked. “If I do, may I
be—lanced,” he observed emphatically. “Thank
you, all right, sir, good day.” And as we stepped
off the pavement a dog put his muddy fest on our
clean boots. It was the shoeblack's partner.
“Rivals for supremacy in the Pacific,” is
the title of a 52-page pamphlet by General M’lvor,
the hero who wields the pen with same facility
as the sword, and who has covered himself with
glory, and Fourteen Flags, even as others cover
themselves with raiment. In spite of Bismarck’s
repeated assurances that he “ vouldn’t do Id,”
the doughty General declares the wily old saur-
kraut worrier’s aim is to annex Holland, and
scoop in the Dutch colonies around, as well. The
General’s views on this subject being as well
known as Sir John’s are on his own eternal Land
Act, there is no need to go further into detail,
but there is one little matter connected with the
pamphlet which must make the well-tried warrior
feel fit to wrap his head in his 14 flags, in sheer
desperation. The preface to the pamphlet leads
gaily off in this style:—“An article bearing simi-
lar title to this pamphlet was communicated by
me to the Queensland Review, and appeared
in the September issue of that publication.
It attracted so much attention that many
of our Northern friends suggested that I
should republish it in a form in which its circula-
tion throughout Astralia. Tasmania, and New Zea-
land weuld be assured. Hence the present work.”
The real facts of the case, however, are that, in
consequence of a little business turn-up between
the proprietor of the Queensland Review and his
printers (over which there will probably be some
court work), the September number of that
journal, though in print, has not yet been made
public. The General, being in Sydney at the time,
knew nothing of the row, and was, consequently,
unaware of the sad fact that no one except the
editor and printers have yet seen the celebrated
article which caused suoh a profound sensation
that the author’s Northern friends went down on
their knees and refused to rise until he promised
to yield to their imploring entreaties, and repub-
lish it in a form which would enable them to wear
it in their shirt-bosoms alongside of the Bibles
presented to them by their dying mothers.
Employ that celebrated tonic Wolfe's
Schnapps to restore the organs of digestion, &c.
Be sure and obtain Wolfe’s
The warrior boy on a mash has gone,
On the crowded blook you will find him;
A suit of tweed he has girded on,
And his coat tails hang behind him.
And he sings as he paces the crowded street,
While the people crowd to hear him—
“ Those pants which Summerfield sells are neat,
And for price none else come near him.”*
For loss of appetite, general debility, im-
pairment of the organs of the body, Wolfe’s
Schnapps is the best remedy known.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Do,n’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, aeltzOT, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potasi
and Ltthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertei,
A3rated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
By studying your customers you study
yourself. Never palm off upon them an imitation
of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRTUMPH of SEWING MACHIN
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
Tho " Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE ANDCOMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANT LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
i&ALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


SOCIAL
The announcement that Lord and Lady
Carington and suite intended to honour Mrs. Arm-
strong’s concert by their presence last Friday
night drew like a porous plaster; and drew people,
too, who cared about as much about music as poor
General Grant, but who were well content to part
with their ss. in order to be amongst the fashion-
able crowd. The ladies were, almost without ex-
ception, most elegantly attired— in fact, not a few
were in full ball costume. This was unnecessary,
as the chief lady of the land wore a quiet looking
black dress and small crimson plush opera tippet;
whilst the Hon. Judith Harbord was attired in
cream broohe made high to the neck and elbow
sleeves, with one large bunch of crimson flowers
on the corsage; her hair ornament consisted or a
long jewelled bar-pin. Mrs. M'Quade wore a rich
cream satin dress; and Mrs. Moulton looked very
elegant in a hanosome cream brocade with watteau
train, the skirt being caught here and there with
beautiful orange-coloured ostrich feathers. This
same dress was the admiration of everybody at the
last American ball. Mrs. Paget-Bayley looked very
nice in black, the front of the skirt being one
glittering mass of jet lace. A small bunch
of pink-blush roses worn in front of the
corsage had a very pretty effect. Miss Marks
also wore black, and a black velvet band round
her fair neck, fastened with a jewel, was in nice
keeling with the prettily made frock. The Misses
Perks wore rich-looking cream surah dresses, re-
lieved by crimson sashes. Miss Ada Senior s blue
dress suited her fair complexion to a nicety. Mrs.
Armstrong was a pretty picture in a French, white
lace skirt and long rich silk train, long cream
gloves and floral ornaments. Mrs. McDonald wore
pure white lace, and Mrs. RHey white and helio-
trope; Madame Charbonnet Ktllermann, white and
cerise silk. Almost without exception the per-
formers in the first part of the programme were
“off colour,” probably due to nervousness, conse-
quent upon the presence of His Excellency. The
part singing was very mediocre, and Mons. de
Willimoff always spoils his otherwise charming
violin solos when he does not play from memory.
It is something quite novel to express dissatis-
faction with Mr. Hallewell'B siogiog, but it is
quite certain that upon this particular occasion
the basso was quite as conscious of his short-
comings as was his audience. A man can t always
be at his best. Mrs. McDonald began her solo
(“Roberto tu che adore”) in a breatnless sort of
way. as if she had had a run for it,
but soon her clear full voice recovered itself,
and the latter part, at all events, was
carefully and skilfully rendered. Mrs. Armstrong
made a good choice of a solo in “Ombra keg 1 -
giera,” and had a most enthusiastic reception.
Her voice, besides being sweetly sympathetic, is
so well cultivated that it seems to run on wheels—
well greased wheels, too —and her unaffected de-
livery is verv charming. For encore she gave
*• Bid me good bye.” Mr. Percy Jones was in good
voice, but hurried his singing somewhat. A
string quartette, for violin, viola, 'cello and piano,
opened the second part of the programme, and
made a nice variety. After singing ** Ave Maria
the benejiciare received a presentation trom her
musical friends of Sydney, which consisted of a
handsome gold medal. Of course it couldn t be
presented without the aid of toe man who pos-
sesses the handsomest gray oyes and beara in
Sydney, and also the gift of the ga at mast of
eloquence. Mrs. Armstrong was too overcome, or
perhaps, too shy to audibly express her than&s,
but as she looked them it was enough. Herr
Patek’s ’cello solo was rather unworthy of him,
though his tone and technique were praise-
worthy. Madame Kellermam , holding a bou-
quet in hor right hand, as if to prove
that "there warn’t no deception about this,
ladies and gentlemen,” played her left hand
piece from “ Martha,” braoketted with which was
Brisßon’s "1/Arabesque,” a delightful morceau
and excellently played. Mrs. Riley was not at her
best in “Because oi thee.” but her second best is
quite a good thing. Mr. Knight Aston sung a very
pretty song, “A smile for every tear,” almost
nicely, but he strains his voice far too much, I or
her last song Mrs. Armstrong chose “ Bing, sweet
bird,” which was certainly the gem of the even-
ing and, although it was the last item on the pro-
gramme, nothing short of a repetition of the last
verse would satisfy the people. After tne concert
was over, Lady Carington requested that Mrs.
Armstrong should be presented to her, and stayed
chatting pleasantly with the cantatrice for several
minutes. The concert was under the direction of
Mr Huenerbein, who also undertook the tedious
duty of playing all the accompaniments.
* * *
The fraternity of Mutual Imps are evi-
dently finding it too cold for them up in these re-
gions, for they had a big fire in their rooms in
Pitt-street the other day—were burnt out, in tact.
Thev have been obliged to take refuge for the
time being in their old quarters at Baumann s.
• • •
A double wedding is announced to take
place at Burwood early next month, when Mrs.
Hill widow of the late Dr. Hill, Lambton. New-
castle, is to be married to Mr. Fred. Mills, Wood-
stock New England; and Miss Harris (lately from
Ireland) to Mr. Herbert Mills, of Messrs. N. M.
Mills and Co., stock and station agents, Burwood.
* * *
A very pretty wedding took place at
Hobart on Saturday, tbe 9 tb January, the chief
actors being Mr.Cust Westbrook and Miss Lord, who
ithev sav) is an heiress. The bride looked very nice
in a whito satin dress embroidered with filoselle
and seed pearls—her own handiwork, the brides-
maids were all dressed alike in white muslin and
cardinal trimmings. For some reason or other
Sot know to the general public there were not
many of the bride's relatives at the oeremony.
* • *
It is rumoured that Mr. Fort, private
secretary to the late Sir Peter Scratehley,
K C M.G., will be appointed to the oflice of A.D.C.
vacated by the retirement of Lord Castlerosse.
* » *
An engagement is announced between the
daughter of a widow lady residing in Alma-road,
sr Kilda Melbourne —whose nusband during life
was renowned for his Maribyrnong stud-and the
son of a noble lord, whose anoestor Englishmen
are tired of extolling as tbe grandest naval com-
mander on record.
• • *
The marriage of Miss Minnie A’Beckett,
ao ,Tr.na anmrhrer of W. A. C. A’Bsckett, and grand
daughter of tbe late Sir Vviuiam A’Beckett, first
rhifif Tustice of the colony ot Victoria, with Mr.
rinvl ann of Captain Boyd, of Balaclava, and
grandson Of the late Dr. Martin, of Heidelbsrg
was on Thursday, the 14th of January, celebrated
M AA Saints’ Church, Sc. Kilda. The bride, who
was given away by her father, wore an extremely
elegant though simple dress ot white silk lad tenne,
liberally trimmed with quantities of soft white
lace A small spray wreath of orange blossoms
under a plain* 1 tulle veil, completed a most be-
coming toilet. The bridesmaids wO J e . sailo L® os l
tumes of navy-blue sateen, relieved by vests, of
white, and sailor hats. Owing to the almost im-
mediate departure of the brides lamily tor
Europe, the wedding party was exclueive y con-
fined to relatives and friends of the lamiiy. ine
uresents to the bride were remarkable lor their
beauty and value, and amply testified to the high
esteem in which she is held by her inends.
' * * *
A very enjoyable evening was spent in
the beautiful'ball-room of Chatsworth, Potts
Point, on Wednesday evening, when about JO
people assembled, and did thorough justice to the
nerfeot floor. The hostess (Mrs. C. J. Roberts)
wore a very becoming gown of striped velvet and
gilk, in black, the bodice cut square and jetted all
over, diamond necklet, and star in front of the
hair. Her daughters wore frocks of pink and
blue respectively. Mrs. Williams was attired in
black lace; Mias Severn, in white, relieved with
heliotrope ribbons; Miss Hill donned a black
velvet, cut low, and short sleeves, displaying very
white shoulders and arms, the skirt relieved with
a large cardinal sash; Miss Hill, in pale-blue
gauze, with rings of satin ribbon around the
skirt, demi-train, blue satin bodice, cut low;
MiSB Fisher, in a soft cream silk, trimmings
of maize, a round fan of natural flowers;
the Misses Hardie were dressed alike in pale
heliotrope with swansdown around the low
corsage; Miss Benson, in white tulle; Miss Spier,
in black. Amongst the guests were Mrs. Frisby,
Miss Gilder, Miss Harnett, Miss Burdett-Smith,
Captain Terry, A.D.C., Mr- Lee, A.D.C., Mr. Gar-
butt, Dr. Williams, Mr. N. B. Hill, Mr. N. Hill, Mr.
Randall. Mr. Goodchap, &o. The company left
about 12 o’clook after spending a very pleasant
time.
* * *
A fancy dress ball was given at Singleton
by the members of the Lawn Tennis Club to Mr.
and Mrs. Brooks, when about 250 guests assembled
in the Show Hail of the town.
* * *
The Association Ground was lively on
Saturday afternoon, the first day of the fnter-
c domal cricket match, and the ladies who sat in
the stand or paraded the lawn had donned their
very best bibs and tuckers for the occasion. The
Governor put in an appearance in gray dittoes
and light gray felt hat at about 4 o’clock, and
appeared to be much interested in the game.
Lady Carington and Miss Harbord arrived about
an hour later, the former attired in light blue, and
the latter in navy-blue, probably in compliment
to the colours of the cricketers. Miss Tbrock-
morton wore an extremely elegant dress of ficelle
canvas, unrelieved by any colour, small styl so.
bonnet, and long suede gloves, and carried a not
too fresh looking crimson sunshade. Mrs, Pinhey
was gowned in a brown costume, small brown
straw bonnet with light blue gauze veil; Miss Day
wore a cream dress and a quaint hat of cream lace
and heliotrope satin bows. A “fetching” cos-
tume was a pure white dress, with a profusion of
buttercup-ribbon loops scattered over the skirt,
and a tiny bonnet composed entirely of butter-
cups. Miss Playfair looked pretty in electric
blue, and Miss Spenceria white; Miss Eva Thomp-
son, fawn satin and lace dress, with bonnet to
match, ornate with pale-pink plumes ; Miss
Fischer, white dress with dark waistband and small
yellow straw bonnet. A most peculiar-looking
costume was of biscuit canvas, trimmed with
prune velvet and large oblong toque to match—-it
was decidedly more peculiar than elegant. An
aggressive-looking pale magenta dress showed
atrocious taste, worn as it was in conjunction
with a yellow bonnet and green parasol. Many of
the sun shades were very gorgeous, those which,
instead of being stretched tight over the frames, j
were fluted, being amongst the prettiest. Ihe
square shape does not seem to gain mueh in popu-
larity, and certainly haw nothin* to recommend it
beyond being a fashionable freak. Mrs. E. Barton
wore cream printed delaine,with close-fitting straw
bonnet; Mrs. Darley, in a stylish costume of
black: Mrs. French, white landa, with moss-green
foliage bonnet; Mrs. Coppinger, a handsome
dress of black surah satin, lace, and red velvet,
high black bonnet, with red plume—a decidedly
good costume: Mrs. F. Moore, neat ficelle gown,
with small, close-fitting brown toque; Mrs.
Bouverle, an exceedingly pretty costume of
cream lace grenaoine, prune shot silk, bonnet and
parasol enmite ; Mrs. Sydney Want looked hand-
some, as usual, in white lawn, with black and
white bonnet; Mrs. Fairfax Ross, white, with
pale Roman sash white bonnet, and cardinal
parasol: Mrs. S. W. Gray, a pretty costume of
cream Indian silk; Mrs. W. E. Mort white
Belgian crape, trimmed with white Jace,
white straw bonnet, with bunch of pale yellow
flowers; Miss Kingdon wore white with a gold
gauze butterfly bonnet; Miss Clara Manning,
white china silk with red collar and cuffs, white
straw hat and field flower*. The military element
was fully represented on Saturday. Among others
we saw Major-General Richardson, who looks ex-
ceedingly well after his three months’ holiday in
India. Monday was a wet, drizzly day, and only
a few of the most enthusiastic lady-lovers ot
cricset ventured to the grounds. The result
balanced the hopes of both parties, for Victoria
didn’t score heavily. On Tuesday, manifold attrac-
tions drew people various ways, so that no day
excelled Saturday in the brilliance of the spec-
tators. + * *
The marriage of Mr. W. A. Manning, |
eldest son of Mr. James Manning* of Vectis,
Double Bay, with Mies Marian Rose, is fixed tor
the middle of February, at Christ Church.
* * *
An engagement is announced between
Captain Marks, H.M.S. Swinger, and Miss Lillie
Heath, eldest daughter of Captain Heath, R.N.,
Kangaroo Point, Brisbane.
. * *
The P. and O. Tasmania, which arrived on
Friday last, brought, among other passengers, Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph and Miss Joseph,who are at present
guests of Mr. F. Joseph, Fairwater, Rose Biy. Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph have been absent from the colony
about a year.
* * *
The staff of aides-de-oamp Lord Carington
considers necessary for the proper adjustment of
his vice-royalty is, at present, restricted to four-
Capt»in Gascoigne, Lord Bertie, Captain Terry,
and Captain Leigh—but a further supplement to
the household is shortly to arrive, a trio this time,
consisting of the Hon. Rupert Carington, brother
of Lord Carington, and lately defeated Conserva-
tive member for Wycombe; Sir George Arthur
and Mr. Bertie Sheriffe.
The marriage of Mr. R. J. Browning, bar-
rister-at-law. with Miss Beatrice Limn, third
daughter of Mr. E Limn, A.lroz, Eigecliffe-road,
ia to bo solemnised at A.II S lints’, W'oollahra, this
afternoon. The Rev. G. North Ash will officiate.
* * *
Lady Carington will hold her third re-
ception to-day. This is to De the last on so large
and public a scale for the present. Ia future she
will be at home to the ladles of Sydney on certain
days.
* * *
Lady Carington is a perfect equestrienne,
and delights iu riding. Her habit is of dark
leather-brown cloth, made just to cover the foot;
the bodice ends in a round baeque, which is a
slight variety from the ordinary coat-tail coat.
Her hat is a low-crowned hard felt of the same
shade as her habit.
* * *
Despite the damp drizzle on Monday after-
noon, Miss Young’s reception was numerously at-
tended. The youthful Mayoress received her
guests gracefully and amiably, and was attired in
a pale-cream broohe satiQ embellished with lace of
the same faiat tint, and a moire sash, long cream
kid gloves, and a bunoh of green leaves at her
taroat. Herr Kuster conducted a nice picked
hand, the first item they played being a grand
reception march, which in parts sounded uncom-
monly like the “ War March ot the Priests, but
which was oomposed specially for the occasion by
Herr Kuster, and dedicated to Mies Young.
Whether it is advisable to give a full afternoon
concert at these social gatherings is questionable.
Many people would far rather move about and
cnat with their various friends in the room than
he compelled to Bit still and listen to music which,
as likely as not, they are unable to appreciate. A
few musical selections are Beldom amiss, but,
although the intention was of the best, the concert
of 12 items was a mistake. Madame Kellermann
and the Misses Lambert and Saville were the lady
performers, and Messrs. Hailewell and bearl the
gentlemen. The orchestra played really well, and
for those who were in the vein for enjoying music
the selection from “Faust” must have been a
treat. There was nothing very striking amongst
the ladies’ costumes, but, at the same time,
nearly everybody was well dressed. Miss Young s
SiSter wore a very beautiful bronze satin and
pink satin jabot, tha same two colours being re-
peated in her bonnet; Mrs. Evans was attired in a
snuff-coloured dress, draped with a rich striped
satin of divers colours, small witch-shaped bonnet
of white straw; Mrs. Roberts was clad in a black
silk dress, with crimson velvet ouffs. small bonnet
covered with blue-beaded net; Mits Roberts also
wore black and cardinal, but a green straw hat
partially spoilt the tffoct of a nice dress; Mrs. IS.
Barton was in a becoming dress of olive-green
surah and cream lace; Mrs. Trickett, in black
with mauve and white aigrette in her bonnet;
Mrs. Adams, black satin, with white straw bonnet,
trimming salmon-pink aigrette and black velvet;
Mrs.Purves wore a striking costume ofjsoft cream,
the tablier richly appliqued with a crushed straw-
berry design, and edged with handsome lace of the
same shade, bonnet of crushed strawberry tulle;
Mrs. Carl Fischer, black lace oostume, with black
bonnet and mauve leathers; Miss Fiicher, a
pretty fete gown of pale-blue and deep cream
Chantilly lace, a neat close-fitting bonnet to match
set off her bright piquante face to perfection;
Mrs. King, a baadsome black merveilleux
relieved by jet trimmiog; Mrs. Gullett, golden
brown satin, with an embossed design in
pale stone, high-peaked brown and gold
bonnet; Mrs. H. Mort, black lace oostume;
Madame Kellermann, black satin and laoe dress,
bonnet of gold gauze, veiled with pink lace, a
double row of pearls round the edge, and trimmed
with pink plumes; Mrs. Dr. Foreman, black broche
gown, gold necklet, and pretty old gold satin
bonnet; Miss Plavfair, electric blue silk, and
small white hat; Miss Miison, black broche and
lace; Mrs. Spenoer, black broche; Miss t Spencer,
cream dress, and large white straw hat; a slight
lady wore a pretty black and white costume, the
dress of black satia had the front width composed
of a beautiful white satin, patterned with small
black velvet dice, small black laoe bonnet and
white Btrings. Plentiful refreshments were pro-
vided, but there were those among the crowd
who seemed to think nobody required any but
themselves, for when once they took their posi-
tions round the tables no power on earth
was strong enough to move them until
their by no means small appetites were sati*t3d.
Very few gentlemen attended the reception— very
few indeed —for tnose things who, upon leaving,
rushed the cabs and rudely ignored the fact that
thev had been called to accommodate ladies,
surely don’t count as such. In some instances, a
couple of ladies, who would be too timid to press
their claim to the cab called for them, would be
kept waiting fully 10 minutes on the wet steps,
till at last, perhaps, it would dawn upon the cab-
crier that they were being badly treated, where-
upon he would be compelled to use not a little in-
sistanoe to see that they got their rights. It was
truly pitiful to witness such under-breeding in a
British community, and it can only be hoped that
these moneyed.larrikins are hardly a fair sample
of our Sydney men.
* * *
On the 20th inst., at St. Thomas’ Church,
St. Leonards, the eldest daughter of Mr. C. Cowles
was married to Mr. B. R. Lloyd, of the firm of
Lloyd and Collins. The bride was attired in a
French-grey costume, trimmed with myrtle-green
velvet, small bonnet to matoh of exquisite design,
gold jewellery. The three bridesmaids were
attired in cream delaine, and each carried beauti-
ful bouquets. Honeymoon at Sandringham.
* * *
The annual meeting in connection with the
Tirranna Amateur Race Club, Goulburn, was held
last Thursday and Friday, but as bad luck would
have it, the rain came down in torrents the first
day and spoilt sport and ladies’ costumes. On Fri-
day, however, all was sunshine, and the festivities
were brought to a olimax by a most enjoyable
ball, held in the Agricultural room, which was
attended by many Sydney and Goulburn belles.
* * *
Captain T. C. Speedy, late H.M.B. Consul
of Abyssinia, gave a most interesting lecture in
the Mar rick ville Town Ball last Monday nivht,
the subject being, “ Soudan and Abyssinia.” The
lecture certainly deserves better patronage than it
got.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Noth.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Zoroaster”: As our space is limited, your con-
tribution had to be “ boiled down ” consider-
ably. Shall always be glad of interesting items,
however... “ Ella It is impossible to conjec-
ture why gauze or other material equally
porous is now used for making fans. You are
quite right in saying such articles are aoout as
useful as a broken bellows, but you must own
they are very much prettier “Crotchet’
The young lady who sang at Herr Kretsch-
man’s concert last week is not Mis-t Fanny
Atkinson, who has made such a favourable
impression in London during the last year by
her singing, ;butjher younger sister, Jenny.
Miss Fanny is engaged to marry Mr. R. F.
Tyler, L.M.T.C.L, so probably Australia will
be cheated out of one of its native musical
successes.
A man fell dead opposite the office of the
Reran* (Vic) Observer, the other day. Some
newspapers do have the luck of It I
A oouple of young sports at Kiama had
“ put up' ’ a little shooting swindle one day last
week. One sneaked behind the target ana pre-
pared to touch rhe bell when the other shot. The
report of the rifle was followed by a howl from the
vicinity of the aisc, and the scorer limped off with
a pill of lead in his thigh. He forgot to ring the
bell. Now he does not see much fun in saloon
rifle-shooting. But that shot will be worth money
to him. In 60 or 70 years he can point to the scar
as the mark of an Arab bullet gained on the gory
battle-field of the Soudan.
At3:a.m. on Saturday a fire broke out in
the upper story of Harris and Ackman’s building,
in Pitt-street, -ydney. Upon its subsequent van-
quishment by the brigade,;the fire was traced to a
room occupied by tho fraternity of Mutual Imps*
A strong smell of burning brimstone was notice-
able, and the Arem'-n at once ascribed the out-
break to some of the deviltries practised by the
unholy brotherhood who, as is well known .to
the initiated, raAe the Founder of the order eaoh
evening of meeting, and indulge ffi a brimstone-
aud-treaole banquet with His Highness from
Hades in the chair. It is probable they will be
cimpelled in future to hold their carnivals on the
rooky shores of Goat Island.
The eaterprising Mongolian 'will penetrate
to any place, no matter how olosely it be guarded
against his intrusion. Last week Ah Sing effected
a burglarious entry (anglici, broke into) the Bris-
bane Gaol and robbed the gaoler. It reads, some-
ho<e, like a romance of the old times In Dunedin,
when prisoners who were not inside the gates of
the gaol before 9 p.m. were locked out fo-- the
night, and at half-past 8 you would see sailors (by
whom the prison was principally tenanted) scurry-
ing along to reach their quarters before the key
was turned— „ .
See the wall-eyed Pagan prancing
Just outside the jug;
Mark his fiery eyeballs dancing,
Note his sallow mug.
See his centrebit and chisel
Twisted in his tail.
Watch him later gaily mizzle—
John has robbed the jail.
Wolfe’s Schnapps not only has a delight-
ful flavour but is a pure tonic, diuretic and a
good general corrective.
Mb. Db Oourot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New SoJh
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido, and Manual oi
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator. Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
The medical profession ! certifies that
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest stimulant pro-
curable
JgIGBNITUB M I BOW BOOM 8.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Connell and Sntfiw streets. Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstandb,
OHAIRB, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBBABT FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
■ i TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, *o.
YERT ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
177 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table antf
glasi., and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s,
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 18s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.: Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
!
P >V
PQg PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oQOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush,
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just, received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
(rConnell-atreet. _ ,
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
1 A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
foes, from 12a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
D
Prio
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handv and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O Connell-Bt«
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
XTIULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDB-
X< BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE.
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, 0 Connell-Btreet.
D
,INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
S
ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIE-
Patented.
£2
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can he obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
oamp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc Ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and C6UCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered 1b
any materials to meet tho taste and requirement*
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I,
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
ainut, ana Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
Walnut, ana Manogany. thjs vjvnx xv_
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDBTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam b
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
Bl
BRADLEY,
Bell and Spring streets.
W
ASHBTANDB, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
* AWN and PARK SEATS 6 foot long. Rustic
1 A Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb. ,
iBNTWOOD FURFITUBB.- A very -mupltH
B'
AjMortmtui i heat mate*. MrleM,


[?]
Bydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—“ Bix whole months without
a single line from my devoted Mab I ” Thus you
exclaim through yesterday’s post. I heartily sym-
path.se with you, dear, tor existence must indeed
oe sad and heavy without the budget of weekly
gossip with whioa I was wont to regale you. Yes,
Indeed. But now that I am back in dear old
Sydney, after a pleasant, if rather hurried, Euro-
pean tour, I mean to still devote an hour a week
to writing to the dearest friend I ever had.
Let me tell you, before going into Bvdney af-
fairs, that we oolonial cornstalks stand comparison
with English, French, or German girls remarkably
well. We aren’t so matter-of-fact as the English,
go Mighty as the French, nor so phlegmatic as the
Germans! and, somehow, life for us seems to have
moret)im-we are more alive to things going on
around us : and perhaps ennui is less known to us
fcoan to any of them. It’s true that in England
they found fault with us for being un-methodical;
and in Switzerland they stand aghast at our thin-
soled shoes: whilst in France our Parisian cousins
laughed so immoderately at our French accent
(which, before leaving Sydney, we flattered our-
selves was so pure) that it must indeed have been
very droll. Oh, you Sydney professors, how cruel
of you to alio w us to tnink we were so perfect in
your lingo I Certainly, we had neither a Jules nor
a SBulteau in our school days, or things might have
been different with us. But, apart from the lan-
guages, we found our other accomplishments well
up to pitch, but—must I say it?-we are really
dreadful walkers. Why is this, I wonder ? Per-
haps it is because we practice the art so little—are
too fond of riding or driving. Why, if we walk
the length of two or three blocks we are ready to
drop with fatigue, whilst to the strong, fresh-look-
iog English girls a constitutional of two or three
miles is counted as nothing. I am sorry about the
walking, dear, for I hate to think we are behind in
anything; but we can dance—oh, certainly, we
have no cause to blush for our dancing.
That the past season has been a particularly gay
and lively one it needed but a glance at the hun-
dreds of faces at Lady Carington’s last reception
to tell me. The young girls had more the ap-
pearance of drooping lilies than bright, budding
roses, and all looked more or less blasi. The
elderly dames showed to far better a ivantage,
but rouge and face powder had probably a good
deal to answer for in this. As years roll over us
we seem to have less and less antipathy to wear
sham complexions or so it would seem, judging
by the beautiful bloom usually seen upon the
cheeks of our fashionable dames here. It must be
passing sad for a woman who has depended solely
upon her beauty to make her acceptable in the
eyes of man to feel her charms beginning to de-
cay. No wonder she takes refuge in paste, powder,
and all the rest of it. Men say that women are not
so lovely now as in past generations, which re-
minds me that a certain oculist announces that
Englishmen will all be spectacled 50 years hence,
and a friend of mine (a man, of course) says that
“ it is a singular evidence of the pressure of a law
of balance in nature, that the plainer the female sex
grows the more near-sighted men become. Then,
as man fastens on speotacies, woman lays on paint.
So the two halves of creation go on ‘ facing ’
with confidence ” As to women being plainer now
than they were 100 years ago, I’m sure £ don’t know,
as I was rather young then to be a judge on such
matters, but as to men being near-sighted, I just
wish they were a little more so, don’t you ? They
Bee far more than we want them to usually and
far, far more than is good for them.
There is something dreadfully hollow about
Sydney society. At least, so I thought the
other day when, upon making a call upon one of
our leaders of fashion, I found that she and about
half a dozen more ladies were in close confab con-
sidering the pros and cons of calling upon a lady
lately returned Irom England, whose husband had
not behaved very prettily during his grass-
widowerhood You will scarce credit it, dear, but
it took three mortal hours for these jury women
to decide whether they should visit or ostraoise
this lady from their virtuous society, and what,
think you, settled the matter in her favour? I
happened to casually remark that the fortune the
lady had been home to claim was very consider-
able-much more, in fact, than she herself had
aay idea of. “ Why on earth didn’t you tell us
that before, child ?” exolaimed one of these ladies,
and forthwith this much discussed lady, who is
unfortunate enough to possess an erring husband,
was pronounced “ Not guilty,” and bids fair to be
one of our society pets. Oh, hollow! hollow!
hollow! or, rather, money! money! money!
You remember my telling you some monthß ago
about the decision of the directors of a certain
bank here not to allow their clerks to marry if
their salaries should be under £3OO per annum ?
Well, I don t know, after all, tnat there wasn’t
wisdom in this rule, but I thlna these same direc-
tors have gone a little too far when they nave fur-
ther ruled that no clerk shall absent himself from
his duties uader plea of illness unless ho presents
a doctor s certificate, and not onty that, but unless
that certificate is procured irom a certain
phjsician chosen by tne directors it shall be null
and void! Now, I think it is dreadfully hard to
compel a poor clerk to hire the services of a
doctor whose terms are of the highest, and in
whose skill, perhaps, he nas less faith than n that
of his own special medico. I wonaer if the direc-
tors get a commission from this doctor of their
own choosiog! Shouldn’t be at ail surprised if they
do. This seems to me to be very ntem shoit of
Russian despotism, and if I were a bank clerk, I’m
sure I’d “ striae ” at once. Poor fellows 1 there
will be no more staying at home now for an im-
aginary toothache any day they feel inclined for
a harbour trip. Not that I approve of their feign-
ing indisposition in order to get a holiday, not a
bit of it; for I hold that when a man undertakes
to devote a certain amount of time each day to
his work for a certain amount of remuneration
he should do it, coute qu il coute, but I do think
the directors might have been a little moro delicate
in their method of making honest men of their
employees, don’t you ?
1 read in a paper the other day that “nothing
but pure politeness induces a baidbeaded man to
lift his hat on meeting a lady in the street.” This
reminds me that not long ago I went to a wedding,
and the bridegroom, who had long since said good-
bye to his fifties, was completely Daid. But what
had the cunning rogue done but chosen for his
best man a youth who was also bald—prematurely
so, of course. Under ordinary circumstances,
people, upon seeing a bald-headed man marry a
young girl, would have said, “Here’s a decided case
of May and December,” But they couldn tsay the
best man was December, seeing that he was bald
yet young, so if he might be May, so might the
bridegroom. This was evidently the line of
reasoning adopted by the festive old boy who had
got a bald-headed best man to keep him in coun-
tenance. However, it isn t every man who, like
this bridegroom and his friend, wear their coun-
tenances on the top of their heads—are two-faced,
as it were.
Really, dear, I think that we of the weaker sex
are profoundly stupid in some things. Now, for
instance, when we go a long train journey we see
the men haul out their comfortable woollen,
velvet, or silk travelling caps, in favour of whicn
they, for the time being, discard the stiff felts or
hideous stove-pipe hats, and, voild, they are—at all 1
events, about their heads—as cosy as you please.
We look on and envy them their ease, but it never
seems to enter our silly heads that we, too, could
do likewise, and still look as charming as in our
high, uncomfortable straw head-gear, which is not
only put out of shape by leaning against anything
leanaole, but the weight of which is bound to give
a headache. But, at last, some lady of note, with
an extra amount of common-sense, has set the
fashion of wearing travelling caps; the favourites
are made jockey shape, and the Princess of Wales
has hers made of checked silk. I saw the jauntiest
little beauty yesterday made fez shape of crim-
son velvet. Just imagine the amount of conquests
a pretty girl could make during a long journey
with the aid of such a ctpl
I am told that Mrs. Armstrong, the lady for
whoso benefit the charmiDg concert was given in
the Masonic Hall last Friday night, has decided
upon going to Europe to study for the operatic
stage. Young, pretty, and possessed of a delight-
ful voice, she can hardly fail to be successful-
provided, of course, she is not devoid of acting
talent; but I should think it must need a nerve of
iron to leave oaes nearest and dearest, even for so
ambitious a cause Between you and me, deaf, I
don’t believe husbands relish the idea of their
pretty wives going on to the stage, but although
I appreciate their scruples to a certain extent,
still, at the same time, I fancy that, if I were a
man and had a pretty and clever wife, I shouldn’t
be ill-pleased to know teat because of her talent
and beauty she was more popular with the world
than one woman out of a thousand, and that land
I only was the envied possessor of the jewel. Be-
side g wbLh I don't think it is right for anybody to
hide bis or her talent under a;bushel. What sort of a
place would the world be to live in if clever io.k
didn’t give us all the benefit of their different en-
dowments ? Uninteresting, indeed. What say
you, ma cherie ?
. I overheard a French gentleman make the re-
mark that if Sydney were a little bit more wicked
it would be a much more attractive place to live
in. But, indeed, I think it is becoming more
charmingly wicked every day, for besides the
various tunday concerts we have two Sunday
papers now, and I should not wonder if, before
very long, we should have the theatres
opened on that much-abused day—for it is
aoußed when people insist upon making
martyrs of themselves by having everything
around them Intensely slow, and being altogether
depressed and miserable. Oh, I assure you, I find
the Sydney Bundays much improved. And, talk-
ing of the Sunday papers, I saw such a funny little
sentence in one of the social paves. It said, “Lady
Carington is very fond of washing dresses.” I
thought it a queer hobby for a lady whose time
must be precious, and began to wonder if her
pretty fiDgers got very much crinkled in the pro-
cess of washing dresses, when it suddenly dawned
upon me that the writer must have intended to
say the lady was fond of wearing washing dresses.
But now, dear, this means that I am very tired,
and if Igo on much longer I shall say something
equally as grotesque as the above, so I had better
at once subscribe myself,
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
BY FLOOD ANO FIELD.
The principal feature about the rowing
racas at the Sydney National Regatta on Anniver-
sary day was the success of the Mercantile Row-
ing CiuD, which carried off every amateur race on
the card, with the exception of juniors in out-
riggers. for which tney liai no entry. Messrs.
Saale, Piokering, Brett, and Robertson won the
senior fours from Sydney and Balmain Rowing
Club crews by any number of lengths, and Mr.
Robertson stroked them in such fine form that
inclusion in the Intercolonial eight may be
looked upon as a certainty, if form and
performance go for anything in the picking. G.
Ruwold was the only sculler to finish for the
junior scullers' race in outriggers. The M R.U.
crew—T. Bates, W. C. Freeman, W. Charles, and
8. A. Kemp—figured on the card for both the
maiden and junior fours, but at the last moment
Stobo took Freeman’s seat, aDd the crew finished
first for the double, but they were disqualified for
fouling the Sydneys in the juniors’ event, and the
race was awarded to the Balmains. Messrs. Brett,
Tompson, and Middleton put in an appear-
ance for the Laidley sculls in outriggers,
and the trio finished in the order named.
Brett rounded Goat Island first, and, row-
ing leisurely, drew out a commanding lead
tilt nearing Fort Denison, when a steamer s
wash nearly swamped him, but getting underway
again, he defeated Tompson by a couple of lengths.
The last amateur race, the maiden double sculls,
fell a victory to R. E. Brindley and L E. Taylor,
of the M.R C, who rowed the celebrated club
skiff. The mamial labour double sculls fell to
M'Clerkson and Plunkett; and of the professional
races, young Charley Matterson won the all-
comers in outriggers, and the light skiff handicap
was won byP. Kemp (401b5.). Kemp had a big
lead in the outrigger race at Fort Denison, when
he came to griei, and left the youngster in com-
mand. Waitangi (timin.), Magic (scratch), Sirocco
(lfmin.) and Electra (7min.) started for the yacht
handicap, 10 tons and upwards, the winner turning
up in the Waitangi, which finished behind
the Magic. Yachts, under 10 tons, was carried off
by the Assegai, from scratch; Thomas Punch won
the canvasser race; Sophia, the ltift. dlngies; Mari-
tana, the Sift, naif-deckers handicap; and Dream-
land won the 21-footers race-her only opponent,
our old love, tne Carlotta, carrying away shortly
after the start. “ Carington ” paid the flagship a
Hying visit in the morning, and all passed off
happy as the proverbial marriage bell, until
about 1 o’clock, when ah;-avy thunder and rain
storm drove the sightseers to a hasty shelter.
. * * *
Tempe again proved her quality at the
Rand wick Anniversary Meeting by landing the
Handicap tor her owner and a heap of money for
her backers. Minerva 'lid another second, a place
for which she seems to have as great a liking as had
Mr. Tait’s Strathearn or old Colima in days of
yore. Kathleen was third, so that it was evidently
a day out for the ladies. Brigantine ran home in
froDt for the Flying Handicap, and Cymbal for
the Hurdle, while the Sailing Race and January
Stakes fell to Ellington and General Gordon re-
spectively. The meet was not improved by the
occasional showers.
• ■ «
As we write, the Intercolonial cricket
matoh is still undecided. Backers of the Vic-
torians laid as much as 5 to 1 on their men when
the wicke’S were Pitched, but saw the match
reduced to a 2 to 1 chance by Saturday even-
ing. and Monday’s play reduced the odds still
more, while Tuesday’s work turned the game
considerably, thanks to Jones and B mnor. The
latter, so far, Beems the hero of the event, and
Moses, who was evidently not “out for an Aaron ”
on Saturday, is entitled to all sorts of credit for his
plucky display. The N.S.W. captain has shown
perhaps better form In this match than in any of
his former displays, and Evans, the Idol of the
terrmes, retains all his old cunning with the bill.
Th* Victorians have been generally good rather
than specially distinguished. On the first day
their fielding was disfigured by all-round careless-
ness. but their opponents cannot gird at them
much on that account.
* * *
A correspondent to one of the Sydney
dailies describes John L. Sullivan as a poor fighter,
a coward, and blackguard. This man would pro-
bably crawl up the sleeve of his own coat if he
heard the Boston boy was within five counties of
him, and own up to the lie by telegram. We have
before us a letter from Jem Mace, In which Sulli-
van Is judged to be the best man In the world.
“ He is,” says Mace, “ as active as any eight-stone
man in the world. He can jump nine feet and hit
a man and get back before the other fellow fires
at him. He hits like a steam hammer driven by a
lightning flash, and there is no man ia the world
his equal. He drinks hard, but gets sober mostly
by night. After a big boosa he takes a pint of cod
liver oil with a nobbier of gin in it; then turns in
and loads himself with blankets. Iu two hours
the drink is all on the outside of him, and a cold
bath puts him as right as rain.” To say that Sul-
livan is a coward is foolishness. He has never so
far had any reason to prove his courage, and it is
just within the bounds of possibility that he may
never be called upon to do so till dissipation has
wrecked him. Then the little children will be able
to whip him.
* * *
The chief item in Foley’s bill, at his hall,
in Sydney, on Saturday evening, was the wrest-
ling maioh between Connors, the Launceston
champion, and Mr. Martin Bruin, the mixed style
collarer. Mr. Bruin is a bear. To vary the enter-
tainment. some good boxing was indulged in, and
three rattling sets-to were witnessed by a splendid
house. Young Lawson and Dunn (of Newcastle)
fought a raking give-and-take battle, which was
terminated rather suddenly by Dunn cannoning
on the light weight’s head, l'ne result was a
damaged eye and a marked temple. Dunn was
forced to retire- He could make a decent fight
with Lawson if he were thoroughly well. M'Kenna
and a friend Dut through a lively four-rounds
rally without much damage to either side. Yeung
Mulholland, who spars very prettily, treated his
opponent to a few minutes’ rough-and-tumble
fun. He dropped him three times with the same
hit, and both men retired satisfied. There
is no such satisfying thing as boxing, even
the losing man is satisfied. He receives the
delicate attentions of his opponent perhaps depre-
catingiy, and the giver being more blessed and
less punished than the reoeiver retires to his
corner wit h the thoroughly benevolent air of a man
who has just signed his name to a petition for bet-
ter drainage in the South Ward. The spar most
anxiously watched was the turn up between Mick
Dooley and young Sullivan. The latter fought a
very good eight rounds’ battle with Dooley re-
cently, and a rattling set-to was anticioated,
Dooley, ho wever, led from the jump, and got on
Sullivan when he liked, ringing the knocker on his
nasal protuberance every time. The battle was
very one-sided, and Dooley won as he liked.
When Connors stripped and faoed the bear it was
evident the fun would be varied. This contest
was a match in which the bear was backed hy
Foley to throw the man three times before the
human animal felled his hirsute antagonist once.
The French gentlemen who engineers the bears had
a bet on the issue of the combat, and when Con-
nors fought for a hind-leg hold he claimed
a foul. The burly “ Lanky ” held on
however, and getting a sort of hind leg arm lock
on pitched seven hundredweight of bear's grease
fairly over. Bruin was dissatisfied and came on
again, but Connors, having thrown him, ciimbed
one of the uprights. The audience left the hall
with remarkable energy, and we, too, though not
frightened of the animal, recollecting an appoint-
ment up town, skipped lightly and airily from the
scene. The bears are muzzled and their claws
blunted, but before we strip to try a fall with
either of them we shall interview him with a Mar-
tini-Henry. Cansdell and Foley knocked each
other about with single-sticks, and the uupils per-
formed some gymnastic feats at intervals during
the evening. The hall was well filled with an
athletic, muscular crowd of orderly onlookers.
* * *
Unlimited dust, very limited oreature
comforts, and exeorable starting, did not add
much to the suocess of the sixth meeting of the
Rose Hill RaciDg Club on Saturday last. Mr.
Gannon is not improving with the flag and the
general opinion amongst tue racing public appears
to be that a change is wanted. No less than 35
minutes were cut to waste before a straggling
start was effected for the Flying Handicap, and it
certaiDly seemed hard lines for the majority of
the bakers dozen of jockeys who were hum-
bugged on the poit for over half an hour and then
lined in sums ranging from £lO to a fiver. Hector
started at 5 to 3 for the Hurdle Race, but he
could only manage to run into a place, the
winner turning up In The Drummer, who de-
feated Tne Fish by a length. Recruit was
supported for the Flying Handicap at 3 to 1, and
won eaßily by a length from Morceau, Keith run-
ning Into a place Sorata was left on the post for
the Two-Year-Old Haadicap, and General Gordon
led his field till within a hundred yards or so of
home, when Colley, on Crossfire, came with a
rush, and defeated the General by a neck, Helen
Maeyregor third. Falcon and Rebus ran a dead
heat for theSel iog Race, and Chieftain finished
uothe day's sport by winning the Cumberland
Handicap from Rosebud.
* * •
The number of easy catches missed on
Saturday last would have disgraced a second
eleven match. Australians are falling off terribly
in their fielding, at one time their strongest point.
* * *
At the celebrated “interview” “King
Phil” told the Echo man, amongbt other things,
that “ they wish to make the Association Ground
as popmar as possible.” This is not bad, consider-
ing that the trustees have quarrelled with the
Highlanders, run the ’cyclists off the ground, and
now they are at loggerneads with the Melbourne
Club. The revenue is larger than the trustees can
well expend on the ground, and there is a rumour
—we give it for what it is worth—that it has been
mooted to take down the present complete stand,
and erect a larger structure in order to make room
for the proposed billiard-tables. The Sydney
Association is perhaps the most complete ground
of its kind In the world, and as the trustees say
they have the good of the sport at heart, they
might well expend the revenue, beyond keeping
the ground in good order, in the formation of a
new ground near the metropolis. Further expen-
diture on the Moore Park ground is pure waste.
• * *
The race for Commodore Dietrich’s trophy
for open boats 30ft and upwards, with cruising
mainsail and jib, came off on Saturday last and re-
sulted in a win for the old 24-footßr, Sea Breeze.
The entries and handicaps were Pomona, 20ft,
J. M. Firtb, scratch; R»gina, 20ft, C. G. CameroD,
2min ; Sea Breeze, 24ft., F. Rae, Bmin. The
Pomona finished first 3onin 30sec. ahead of the Sea
Breeze, which won by time allowance with minutes
to the good. The Breeze is a grand old boat, and
sails like a witch in a sea. Sue was built to the
order of Mr. Alexander Oliver—we wouldn’t
line to say how many years ago—by Barnet, but
she will be a boat when many of the latter-day
clippers will be sheer hulks. Her greatest achieve-
ment was her celebrated race against the King-
fisher round a off Bammjuey and back. It
was a lovely morning when the boats started
away, but later on it came to blow a perfect
terror from the southward. The ’Fisher took
refuge in Broken Bay, but the Breeze, with New-
ton at the tiller, if we remember aright, thrashed
back like a duck, and landed the dollars. Bhe is
not a tiyer, but with pleasure suits, and an eight-
minutts’ handicap, she had a “throw-in” on
Saturday las*.
* * *
Young Cavill’s challenge to swim W. F.
Corbett did not long go unanswered, as the latter
states he is willing to swim CaviJl 1000yds. in
Robinson’s or Foley's baths for £35 or £5O aside.
Young Cavill’s challenge was for a mile, but we
do not suppose he will “ Caviil ” over the altera-
tion of distance, so the aqueous cracks are pretty
sure to meet.
* * *
Says the Australasian “ A strong four
has been organised by the Derwent Rowing Club,
Hobart, consisting of Messrs. A. F. SharJand
Ptroke), list 71b ; T. Robinson (No. 3), list. 71b.;
E Watchorn (No 2/, list. 41b.; B. Stuart (bow),
list. 71b ; and W. Burton (cox.), sst., with the in-
tention of sending them to compete in the Senior
Four at the Hobart Regatta, on the 38th Januarj,
and in the Ladies' Purse at the Tamar Regatta, on
the 9th February. In the event of the dates suit-
ing, they will visit Melbourne, and row in some of
the senior or challenge races.” While the Tas-
manians are “ on the job,” would it not be a good
idea for the NB.W. Rowing Association to get up
a day’s sport on the Parramatta, and include in the
programme a four-oar race ODen to all amateurs,
givinsr a prize worth going for, on condition of
the Tasmanians putting in an appearance. The
steamer money would pay expenses and leave &
margin to boot. We won’t charge Mr. Bros any-
thing for the suggestion.
* * *
Charles Messenger, who showed the Sydney
boatbuilders a thing or two in light skiff-build-
ing. has just turned out a likelv looking racing
craft to the order of the Sydney Rowing Club. It
will be interesting to note how she shapes with the
Mercantile clipper turned out by Joe Donnelly.
* * *
O’Leary is still on the trudge. At Newark;
(U.S 1 he recently started a 2500 walk against
Weston.
* * *
On dit that “ Carri” wired “ Loch ” “ go a
cool century on the intercolonial,” but the Em-
peror of the Cabbage Garden “ wasn’t on.” Thiß
yarn is about as reliable as Charley Turner.
* * *
Followers of form must have done pretty
well in Tasmania. Duration aad Duke of Athol
won two events eaob, and Sir Lancelot caught
the judge’s eye (new expression, that) three times.
Duration, by the way, has had four wins in suc-
cession, and just now the handsome black seems
invincible.
* * *
Professor Miller is back in Melbourne
from that Adelaide expedition with Donald Dinnle
which brought the indignation of the natives upon
the head of the braw Scot. The Professor looks
more massivelv imposing than ever. Whistler’s
unsuccessful bout with the rum bottle has left the
Melbourne pet once again a Gneco-Roman cham-
pion. We believe he is devoting weary nights
and days to mastering the details of that " arm
lock” which the dead Kansas demon put on with
such terrible effect. The question is, where does
he find the subjects to practise upon? But.
there, you can hire men nowadays williog
to submit to a good deal in the cause
of science. Take the fellows who simulate sur-
gical cases at the medical exams, for instance.
We remember a fellow who worked in this line for
one of the London hospitals. An aspiring student
was desired by the examiners to treat the case for
broken arm, smashed leg, and fractured ribr.
There was such a fearful lot of bandaging and
supposbitious “setting” and tomfoolery about this
job that the case “struck” in disgust. “Look
’ere, yer!” said the case, "do you think I’m
going to stand ail this pulling about for a boo
a day?” A shilling per diem was evidently the
recognised wages for allowing an embryo saw-
bones to take liberties with one’s limbs.
* * *
There was a fiendish grin on the faces of
backers when the cable brought the news that
bookmakers had “ struck” at Hobart. “ I wish
they’d struck when I employed their labour,”
said a disconsolate-looking ‘’broker.” Well, better
late.than never. If we have suffered, our chil-
dren may at least escape the snare of the fowler.
Those lambs can’t be skinned, anyway. That, the
strike may continue is our fervent prayer. Now,
all together, let us sing to the metallicians—
Ob. prithee, gorgeous gentlemen,
Who love a diamond ring,
Do you at last regret your past,
Does time repentance bring?
Or have you, gorgeous gentlemen,
Of money weary grown,
And thought it well, that for a spell,
The mugs should “hold their own”?
Keep striking, gen’rous gentlemen,
Your little volumes close,
And we shall be, henceforward, free
From many little woes;
Be resolute, good gentlemen,
And seek no more to lay
One-balf the odds; then, oh, ye gods!
Our tailors we will pay.
For there are strikes, good gentlemen*
That no one can condemn;
Excuse our wink—we really think
That this is one of them.
Keep virtuous, good gentlemen,
All evil courses shun,
And, in that case, the human race
Will bless you, everyone.
*. * *
While trying to tempt Beach over the
water with the promise of a big sweepstakes lor
scullers early next summer, London Echo says:—
“ Beach can make up his mind that no more
scullers will be tempted to row him over the
peculiar currents of the Parramatta.”
• * •
So far nothing further has been beard
from Farnan or Newton re the proposed Foley
light. Newton is io Tasmania, but a cablegram to
him has not induced a reply. Can it be that the
terms offered both men—their own—are unsati*-
factory ?
* * *
On Friday afternoon Mr. Stephen Punch
chartered the steam-launch Mary, and gave the
Victorian cricketers a run down as lar as Banky
Bay, where stands the castle of Captain Mat. Bums,
the owner of the Mary. A very merry afternoon
was spent by the boys a"d their frienas, amongtt
whom were several Ms P., Messrs. Joe Thompson,
Foley, and others. Songs and toasting varied the
monotony of the ocean voyage, and an excellent
lunch was provided.
* * *
The horse Sir Modred imported to this
colony by the railway contractor, Mr. Proudfoot,
and subsequently sold to be shipped to America,
will probably furnish the courts with some inter-
esting occupation during the next session. For
nearly 12 months the case of Proudfoot v StubbiDs
has been before the courts, but applications for
stay of proceedings have prevented its being heard.
The Full Court having now decided in Mr. Proud-
foot’s favour, all his cases will be beard as against
the Bank of New Zealand. The scratching of Bir
Modred in the Hawkesbury is not yet forgotten
by his backers, and the legal maze of uncertain
ownership which surrounded the horse had proba-
bly something to do with this.
Dr. Rose, member of the Victorian Legis-
lative assembly, took it into his massive brain
the other day to initiate a new political power
He issued a prospectus, calling a meeting of all
good citizens for the purpose of forming what
be facetiously styled a National Political League
of Victoria. Fifteen persons attended, most of
whom carried decayed iruit in their pockets. Dj .
Rose is now known in political circles as the
Firt Tailor of Tooiey-street.
“ Twenty to one on the double—The
Glories of Ancient Greece and Daniel Henry
Deniehy,” was what a smart man freely laid at the
Sydney Town Hall, when the Ja'nil One rose to
deliver his celebrated oration. He won in less
than 10 minutes.
The public health is endangered by per-
sons who vend counterfeits of Wolfe's Schnapps.
CQIWPABNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mavnr
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, vc., &c. r r '
The Dining Saloons for Ladi<s and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the colon?
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List. 007 *
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after ths
1 heatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
oi the city, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Ginn
ar d City Club, upstairs. E. D. TQELEMACME. General M*nmgtr.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
A lady at Mt. Barker (8. A.) is said to hare
been blood-poisoned by the smell of a dead black
snake, or at least that is how we sum up the tele-
gram. She was closely examining his dead snake-
-8h —[Leave that word to the country Press— Ed.
B ] when she noticed an immense smell, and soon
after an ulcer formed on her lip, for which the
doctor prescribed snake-poison remedies. How
she was inoculated, unless she kissed the corpse,
we are unable to understand. That might have
happened; some girls would kiss anything—even a
Nooze reporter or a C.M.G.
• ■ ■
Mother (who has just polished the broom-
handle on Johnny, seeks to inculcate a moral les-
son) : “Now, tell me why I punished you?
“That’s it,” sobs Johnny, “you nearly pound the
life out of me, and now you don’t even know why
you did it.” A recsntly-married Melbourne lady
is not very well posted in household matters. She
recently interviewed her grocer in this style: 'I
bought three or four hams here a couple of
months ago, and they were very fine. Have you
got any more of them ? ” Grocer: “ Yes, ma’am,
there are 10 of those hams hanging up there.
•‘Are you sure they are off the same pig ? * 1 ee,
ma’am.” “Then I’ll take three of them,”
Senator MoCreery, of Kentucky (U.S.), was once
puzzled by the letters E P. in the corner of a visit-
ng card, left during his absence, and took an
early opportunity of askiDg their meaning, when
the dude explained that they were the initials of
en versonne, to show that the owner had left it
himself. Boon after, the dude was surprised to re-
ceive the senator’s card, bearing the initials
S B A N„ and called to have them interpreted.
“Oh,” said McCreery, “you called in person, so
marked your card E.P., mine was ‘sent by a
nigger,’ so X initialled it S.B.A N.” That dude
gave up marking pasteboards for t he senator after
this explanation “Don’t be a fool, my dear,”
remonstrated a husband to his wife, who
was letting her jaw swing loose in the breeze.
“ I won’t Mr. Jenkins, I won’t,” she answered
“people wouldn’t know us apart if I did.”.. A Ger-
man legend: “ First the Lord made man, then h e
made woman, then he felt sorry for the man, and
made tobacco.” Many humorous stories are
told of Lorenzo Dow. He preached once from the
BANK MANAGER HILL.
THE HILL THE BANK ROBBERS COULDN’T GET OVER.
text from St. Paul: “ I can do all things.” “ No,
Paul.” he said, “ you’re wrong for once. 11l bet
vou $5 you can’t,” and he took a $5-bill from his
pocket and laid it on the deck. He continued to
read, “through our Lord Jesus Christ. ”n»
Paul ” flail he, “ that's an entirely d liferent thing;
the bet is off.” “This,” says an English writer,
“ heats any anecdote ever told of Spurgeon
Oft m the chilly night
When bed-clothes snugly bound me,
I’ve heard the whiskered felines flght
In martial troops around me.
The spat of cats
. The hurled brick bats,
The careless words then spoken;
The eyes that shone
The back fence on,
The panes of glass now broken,
qtrnet Arab: “Box o’ matches, sir.” Swell:
‘ v No don’tßmoke.” Street Arab: “Buy a box
teach you”....The authority of parents
in Coinais unlimited. A Cbinkie of forty years,
whose aged mother flogged him every shed
tears in the company of one of his fneads. Why
do you weep?” “Alas, things are riot as ,they
nsedtobel” answered the devoted son. The
noor woman’s arm grows feebler every day 1... •
Another Frenchman has published a book about
England in which “John Bull et son lie” get
nnnsiderablv. Some of th-> anecdotes are
not consfficuoustytruthful, and the following le-
may be taken as a fair specimenAn Eng-
fish lady who prided herself on singing romances
was summoned by a neighbour as a nuisance. Do
vou sing much ?’ enquired the judge. ‘ Only one
W n the morning and one in the evening,’ was
?he reply “whatl’ exclaimed the judge, ‘only
hours a day ?’ and, turning towards the plain-
remarked. ‘ How can you complain of that?’
To which the plaintiff answered, ’Would your
honor be kind enough to ask the defendant tosffig
to before LhMSSt
a few bars the ju ige, terrified by the dis-
oordant si/uaM.stopped her, and gave judgment
fo?theohUntiffThis is exactly the way in which
uroceedings iH an English law court are usually
proceeamg German universities there are
between 80 and 00 years old, of
whom 122 continue to give lectures.
The Age was “ got at” two years ago by a
fellow named Bryant, who stuck it for £5O for in
formation, not received, about Russia’s intentions
against us. A great laugh was raised at the
“ people s paper ” being so done. We were not
prepared, therefore, to find that Mr. Service has
been similarly taken in. At one of bis Richmond
election meetings, we find such a respectable
authority as Mr. Bosisto telling the electors that
the Service and Berry Coalition Government had
paid no lees than £4OO to a Melbourne-resident
Pole, named Krakowski, for information as to
Russian intentions. Someone rightly enough sang
out “flummery” at this period of the speech,
whereupon Mr. Bosisto said that he k a< * seen the
documents on which the money had heen paid.
Yerv likely! Bryant quite as readily produced
documents, aod was rewarded with two years in
quod instead of £4OO in cash.
The Sydney Sunday Times states that the
£lOO Sheffield Handicap is to be run on a prepared
•• crack” on the new show ground. This depar-
ture will be welcomed by those athletes who boast
at midnight that they can walk a chalk line. The
entrance fee is 10s. We have often run on to an
unexpected crack for less money. The crack was
delivered by our other half when we had returned
late from lodge. Law, she can handle a broom!
Not Beauty’s Power.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once I thought I was oold and proof
Against their wiles,
And could see the trace of the cloven hoof
In a woman’s smiles.
Women were pretty to me sometimes,
Though full of freak;
To be won by gifts, or sighs, or rhymes—
They were so weak 1
So frail, I marvelled they kept within
'fhe rightful path,
The straying from which brings growth of sin
As an aftermath.
They had no s->ul to do deeds of might,
No heart to dare; . _ , .
Theirs not the strength with the world to fight—
They were only fair.
’Twas I was blind—not they so weak
As I used to think
When I rhymed a face or praised a cheek
For its tender pink.
For now I glow at the lightest touch
O f a mere dead glove;
It seems so strange I can feel so much,
But she was—my Love.
The veriest beauty that tempts a kiss
An hour may kill; _
But a glamour that comes from the grave, I wis,
Is around me still.
What is it that many a fair face gleams
And lips are red,
To one whose whole soul only dreams
Of a woman dead ?
A. F.
Redfern, 17th January, 1886.
Parents do not use vile drugs or nostrums in your
families, but use pure Hop Bitters made only by
Amerioan Co. See and read
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no equal for the
cure of dyspepsia and kindred complaints. Be
sure you opt&m Wolfe S«
Many Afflicted
With serious skin, scalp, and blood humors go to
their family ptaysican, who either frankly tells
them he cannot cure them, or else exhausts their
patience, and they consult the •Authority on
Scalp and Skin Diseases.” $l5 (price of consultation)
is a pretty good sum in these times, and much is
expeeted of the “ authority,” but we regret to say
little is received. Soon the patient sees no'im-
provement and becomes discouraged; accidentally
learns of the Cuticura Remedies, usee them and
is oured. This is astonishing, but true.
Weak and nervous invalids will be bene-
fited by taking that world-famed tonic Wolfes
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe’s.
Clouds of amber, dreams of gladness,
Dulcet joys, and sports of youth.
Soon must yield to solemn sadness—
Mercy holds the veil to truth.
Summeriield just now is selling
Suits that ought to take the bun,
In their style and price excelling
Aught that’s sold beneath the sun.*
Life is full of change. New homes are
continually baiog formed and habits contracted#
The brait s of mankind, ever active, striving to
make improvements in every sphere of labour,
resulting in the production of superior goods at
lower prices. At your leisure', oall and view some
of the world's art words in glasi, china, and
earthenware, leceived from Britain, Germany.
France, Austria, and Italy, by Bray Bros., 403 and
404 George-street,*
To protect the system from influences, and
for bracing up the nervous system use the cele-
brated Wqlfjss Schnapps.
-
m
S 3
&
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEABE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
2JTEI3T7-OTTS
SYSTEM.
Below will be found a brief summary of aLeoture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Eleotrio College of Medioine, by
DR. J. HAVDOCK,
aasimilatfon and nufrition rood taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomaoh is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
theaotion of* thehver these Substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
bv ft Wc vein cftlT^d'the HepVtio vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
Serves‘two pSpSTvIz ® the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system. „ T oompoBltlon 0 f bile and its secretion is very complex. It Is constantly
beinv secreted bv the liver, and. increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
aDDetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, the passage with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which w© all know or :
1. The patient oomplains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomaoh.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn. , , ,
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headaohe in front of head.
8. Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to chow functional derangement ®f the liver; and now comes the
great importance of anv error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pro-
v.irr.ooif 1 with n. MVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
mv Tife as many of you nowbefore me know, to compounding a Pillthat will act readily and system.
SFoally asa Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an aotive and thorough dose. I have called it
Dr. Haydock’s Naw Liver Pill (Sugar Caatad.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock's New Liver Pills are a perfect cure,
will satisfy the most sceptical.
One Pill
1 satistyinemost aceptnw _ , . . ...
Per Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
3ick HeaXe® Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills-One Pill is a Dose. Prioe Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BT ALL DRUGGISTS.
aj-nsa ssm be w. a^? o iWcr* e ssmas trM to “ rad -
A a Dr Havdock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 213 kinds now in the market, any seep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent Mm free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
CURATIVE BBITS
ELECTRICITY.
ELECTRIC
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never-failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as B ,uPPl*ed tothe
human system by wearing the MAGNETICAL
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, whioh alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of life-
eleotrieity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the applianoes
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’B ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial. in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Prioe, 155.; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed. 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators tor the
successful treatment of all luugf complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 20s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well aB con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s. 6d. eaoh ; Spine Bands, 10«. Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. peripair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great sucoess attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called oau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence trented ■with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.,
158 Pltt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’B PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is net a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been reoognised by thousands of
sufferers. .. .
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-bt., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
I street, London, they are spurious.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp."
TRAPP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New Bouth Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
FISHING TACKLE of every description.
Fishing Rode, all prices. Artificial Flits,
Frogs, Fißh, and iDsects. Plaited Silk Lines,
Twisted Silk Lines, Hooks on Gut, Gimp, and
Wire. Our Noted Sydney Lines, from fid. to 38.
each. Long Bamboos for fishing rods, and every
description of Fishing TackJe.
Fishing Nets, all sizes; prices sent on application.
Also Seine, Herring, and Salmon Twines; also
Cork.
EAST WAT BROTHERS, Fishing Tackle Depot,
411 George-street
INTENDING VIBITORBTO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1935 PAS3ENGERS LAST SEASOrr.
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD” fame,
is still running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
Bt. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Picoadilly
London, every morning at 10.45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 5 45 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunon
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEBT IN THB
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can
be taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars, apply to
“WONDER” Coaoh Office, Hatchett's Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England,


Giticura
l c &»
o°*
Jtvv
==Q
-Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
'N /
Scrofula on Neck*
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
D T U™ 'ihhhrit Hl r T , M ?, R ‘ S >. Humiliating Erup-
u Burnln g Skin Tortures,
JLOathsoruc bores, and every species of Itching
rf- 3 lm Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi’
li) I ssof S lTa : ir S f 0f th . e 8100d > Skin, and Scalp,
iiOss of Hair, from infancy to old age are cured hv
Coticora Resolvent, the new Blood Purified
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap the
great bkin Cures and Beautihers, externally. ’
Itching and Burning Skin IHseanna
Bakers , Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch*
Pile8 ’ and Dehcaie lrrhatTons pecuha;
With C(JTICURA ln So a A n e y r f lieved h y a warm hath
Cm r, K,V» i Soap anti a single application of
C/UiroußA, the great Skin Cure. This renented
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Kesolvent
Sc i p P whe!i y aTl\ r nh tChingTMS ? aSeB of the Skiu aud
pcaip, wnen all other means absolutely fail.
wiH!
sou-fvt a iJ, 1 1 ’L® w , ra PPed about the Re-
enmlv sworn tn I,T haadr ed Testimonials, sol-
rene d this storv 1T the Brlti ®h Consul, which
iepe.it tms story. I have been a terrible sufferer
have Biseases of the Skin and Blood:
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my dishgurmg humors; have had the best phy-
sicians, have spent hundreds of dollars, and l got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Rfmfiiifs
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
" P"™ a 8 a gild’s. Send for our sixty four page 1
book, How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.” g 1
Australian Consignees,
H. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
nUTHJDRA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
W her, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
t ut i cura > the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
bores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Elesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura boap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and 1 01 let Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skm Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skis.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
CachuseUs yUCai Chemista of the State of
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes
fi(, U °s’o T V^ UKA ° A n ’ 25 oents; Cuticura Shav-
per bottle’ 10 cent8 ’ Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
dfg
EFFECT JALLY DESTROYS
——|ALLNOX lOUS INSECTS
FLEAS. FLIES, BEETLES MO: >QU ITOES.
VtNDIS
jAT THE SAME TIME QUI TE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
0
Cir
\
4WL*
SOLD
I^INTINS
UPWARDS
CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FEjLTO N- G KIM WAD Ett C?
Wanted in Every House.
ask lor JIitUSE S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations;
AIIHOODi RESTORED I
a ( ! 1 l er(r Z?’. a ° having tried every known reused)
Ti A. ,O f^»CU R EofNERVOUSEXHAUii
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c"lw M
disoovered a simple SELF-CURE, wmch, fee
«• HU of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
Proscription which CURED him. Addream
*ith self-addressed stamped envelope—
»r. E. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 3M, Hydney.
r
i
ijGTUDY bgonomt
I and
- Ha ve your Umbrella Frame*
I n re 'Covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
_ equal to New, at
!J. SULLIVAN’S
George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
Bapalrs neatly
YA NKEE DOODLE
rail
SVD N EY
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
-* ■ . .
%, *v«vUE rOK j
«F~, tobacco
piXSON A SONS, Sydney,
tban any faetory in the southern hemisphere.
**" YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,* sir R«mr, champion, and Din,on’. Cat Tohaeooa.
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture
Tobacco, and oonsume more American
more
Leaf
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE! !
Trade
sdf
gs
Mark.
MORE FEVEH
“, 4 *"»
smells arising Irom closets, Cad dratas, &c ‘ Sold an “ emlS* ®“ bßd
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
w
\
co
cn
£3Cf
FLAYOTTR and unsurpassed
. distinguish Wilsoa’sTme-
xx«»a Extra Toast ” BISCUITS trw
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or d'esaert
nothing equals them. Delicious with’
withcoZeor^hee^f 6 ’ and lncom Parible
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 SussiX Street, Bto ret.
TLje {/?[<*<) "Met 3s/e,
*J? „ ,
Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
SS?ffi>S«fe An T^ ms > Psalters, Services, &o.
8 ’ Cantatas, &oT
Orchestral and Brass Band Music. In variety
tiNew catalogues can be had gratis on appiica-
-Bta^«n»?‘'*^ Co< i U i nt Boofes * better and Note
p . Papers, <fcc., at lowest prices.
bums. PurHfifl. C.arA Hafloa Unn J
InXmeitTever ‘invented
takes off 3000 copies ; the
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 sSlendid S 8 ! 0 . 1
Send and obtain full particulars of wSkiT
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
The Great I/iver Remedy*
sK e a« 3
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced LnindrußM eav that tt
equalled tor ImertSwa C5tM# e 2 to""'
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Btorekfifin«rn «.
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle. d 8oQ ’ Forest
PARISIAN
■'■ BVTTm StSStsagg; 1 "
O-loss
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY#
{
a
(HU
HI
N,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY
Use,.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
iMimiiw.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
f* 1 " EYERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


A SCRIPTURAL PAINTER.
The great Russian painter, Vereschagen, recently
exhibited a number of realistic pictures on Scrip-
tural subjects, at Vienna. The exhibition at first
attracted people of all classes who could afford
to pay for admission, and none were scandalised.
But suddenly the R C. Archbishop of Vienna de-
nounced the collection ss blasphemous, and
straightway the quondam admirers of the pictures,
critics, painters, courtiers, and professional men
began to apologise for having visited the exhi-
bition, and some soon wrote to the papers to say
that they did not mean, by so doing, to encourage
the painter. This little episode shows plainly
that Sydney, N.S.W., is not the only place in the
world where cowardly lickspittles crawl in the
gutters of moral debasement in search of “re-
spectability” and C.M.G.-ships. Vereschagen
shifted his quarters to Paris, where a correspon-
dent of the P. M. Gazette interviewed him. It is
to that enterprising journal that we are
indebted for what follows, and for the rough
sketches which serve to illustrate the talk.
Vereschagen’s paintings seem to express, in fact, a
revolt of a healthy mind against the ghastly abor-
tion of the Renaissance period when Art was
slave to the priestly caste. It was not at all
necessary, Vereschagen thought, to buttress up the
philosophy of Christ with accounts of childish
miracles adapted from the Greek aud Latin my-
thologies. The Russian painter thought Camille
Desmoulin’s saying, that Jesus was the first sans
culotte, a true one, and one which, if well under-
stood, would advance the spread of Christian
morality. He regards Christ as pauvre diable in his
life, who was the friend of those who were as
poverty-stricken as himself. This religious genius
was developed by harsh circumstances actin? on
sensitive nerves. Vereschagen therefore depicted
him in the midst of a Jewish carpenter’s family,
sitting on the steps by which the sleeping-place on
the roof is ascended to. He is poorly dressed in a
frock-like garment, and pores over a leather scroll
on which there are sacred writings. The family
of the carpenter are all in a high-walled court, on
which the crude white light of a Syrian afternoon
beats down. Joseph, with his back turned to the
spectators, works with his second son on a bench.
The mother is seated on the ground, a white cloth
sheltering her head from the sun’s rays. She
nurses a baby, and older babes gather round her
as if they were beginning to feel hungry, and
wanted her to provide for them the midday meal.
THE HOLY FAMILY.
Mary is “the mammy of the little folks,” sayß
Vereschagen, and “Why should she not be ?” I
asked if he thought the Lady of Grace of the
Catholics had not sprung out of the brains of pos-
tulant knights in the Middle Ages, when watching
,n churchyard beside their armours. “Rather,’’
answered the painter, “out of the brains of
monks, who were ha unted by the idea of woman-
hood, and thought sanctity lay in absolute chas-
tity. They could not deny Mary’s motherhood,
but they minimized it and gave it a miraculous
character. In my opinion, she is more admirable
in the midst of a poor family, brought up to earn
their bread by the work of their hands, than as
she is represented by the Italian painters and in
the statues of her in Lady Chapels.” “The p’e-
ture of the Resurrection,” said Vereschagen,
“ also scandalised the Archbishop, and the sheep
, of Panurge who accept him as their shepherd.
Hero it is. This is the exact drawing of
a sepulchre of a rich man near Jerusalem. A
grotto in the hillside—which may, or may not, be
THE RESURRECTION.
natural—is faced with masonry. A square hole is
left near the ground large enough for a man to
crawl in on all fours, and to admit of his dragging
in a dead body when he turns round inside. A
stone is hewn to fit well into this orifice aEd close
it up. It is pushed to fr m without, and could be
pushed out from within by a supposed corpse who
had revived. The entombment in the sepulchre
of Joseph of Arimathea took place on the eve of
a holiday. Everyone was in a hurry. The stone
was carelessly adjusted, and there was no diffi-
culty in thrusting it back from the orifice.” So
then I said, “ You don't believe that .Teeus died on
the cross?” “No. Because He rose from it, got
out of the sepulchre, and was seen by and con-
versed with His disciples. The wounds Thomas
felt prove this. No essential organ was destroyed
on the cross, and the legs were not broken.
If they had been. He could not have
risen.” I asked Vereschagen whether he
never felt remorse at trying to under-
mine the belief of simple Christians. “What,”
he asked, “ has this to do with Christianity ? Does
it interfere with the vitalizing ethics of the Ser-
mon on the Mount? Does it prevent men from be-
-I’eviDg-that no nation can be strong and healthy
until brotherly love is the common law ? Does
cut at the root of belief in God’s providence ? It
does not. But archbishops, bishops, an t so od,
cannot "bear to be shown that Jesus -was a savs
culotte of a sublime heart and soul. They have
been trying for centuries to tone him down to
smooth gentleness—he who was so bitterly iron ical,
so fiery in his indignation, so rude, so rough in his
handling the scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, and
the money-changers of the Temple. His sympathy
with suffering drove him often into a state border-
ing on frenzy. What would people now think of a
social reformer who went and abused the Roths-
childs on the Stock Exchange? Well, if he did
that he would be only following in the footsteps
of Christ, who I admit was all kindness and geni-
ality with those who were beaten to the dust or
into the mire by the corrupt civilization of his
time.”
REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints. >
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’S
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doe-
tors’ bills to pay.
fIT See If the name of Dr. Soule Is hli
In every bottle, If not it is counterfeit.
ill
m
“ Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your 4 Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before. —
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’ — Maggie Moose.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have the, greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s 4 Bloom of Peaches ’ ,-,nd
‘Pett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Kees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDBB,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
The 44 Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOUftKE STREET, MELBOUKNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO.. Wholesale Chemists
dfg
W.H. PALISCO.
LIMITED,
356 George-sfreet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEBT MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.Sfl. PALING & Co.
356 Beorge-street, Sydney.
i* %
Cv
5$
BULL BOG ALB.
JTIBST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO..
Sole Agents.
E
VEKYBODY 1
SHOULD USE f
PEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUH MILL,
SSI fieorfe.street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERB AND B'l OREKEEPERB.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELDBEATED
BISCUITS AID CAKES, TREACLE AID GOLDEN STRIP,
Self-raising /Eratecf Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
m&t" FOR SUPERIORITY OE QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Syria*y Agrafes W„ «. ARSEIX As (SO., 343 Ka»«Hrtrmit.


Awarded Three
prize Medals
sdfgsdfgsd
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PIKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art furniture
AND
Appointments,
Brass, Iron, and Nichle>i>lated Bedsteads.
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet- pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, and Brua-
sells Carpets in Newest Colourings and Designs.
B'ankets, Quilts, Hearth liuge, Door Mats, Dinner
Services, Chamber Ware.
Kitchen Requisites, &c , &c.
The Only Address is
355 and 365 a Pitt-atreef,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
AWARDED THREE PRIZE MEDALS
FOR DUR A.BILI L'Y.
IN
stoR ED
Ks
KSSENGEofUFE
pe only infallible remedy for
lljWoi/sJjebiLijy:
fjHEKE are many men in this colony who are,
■ day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bin existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunniDg society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopele s-< invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which w 11, in the
short space of Tour Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and H moving cite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of theNorvcu* and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating ail the im-
portant elements of the human fiame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials
In cases at 12s , or four quantities in one, for 365.:
if by coach, Ss. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Gouluurn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of^x£ es ’ Pcsfc ofllce Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTONS
BBS positively cured by MOULTON'S
we can u 'J' 1 B mean ollred ’ nofc merely relieved, and
ml 6 say ° There are no failures and ne
all BlLlOn^t aa MOULTOK ’ S PRUIT I>ILLS aR o cure
pEPSTA ItRJSNESS » prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
tearty ea«nT 10te I)T , G ' PSTTON ' relieve distress from too
''imulate t " Vwv.> Cfc ra , SORI) BRS of the STOMACH,
rR E Blonn Ll mu R,regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
known o, ' - ar The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Ihey ar/«/!I Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit.).
y sue as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Solrt Everywhere, Price I*. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON\ Sole Proprietor:
PILLS
c
o
1
NE
A MAKK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A ™,?L C ;?£' a ’ ajlN » &SP E «Dir OURu ror Ner-
that 8B&ni General Debility, and all complaints
Toothache f M mlaek of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Appetite V«^ er i VO, if? eBB J Indigestion, Loss ol
Complaint/ 6^ Blo disorders, Liver and Kidney
Blood pw,L J* ener ni Prostration, Impoverished
tee, Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
removed »n &ad soothing effects it at once
in Pho S ohiL cravln s: for Alcohol. By its richness
nientsMA»alr a f?J Jther9owerful vitalising ele-
ishes a„rt S BHALL ’ B TONIC NERVINE nour
® uu - gives viarmnp tn (lbA whnl« Htrafiorvi
tfttiong pL l^; 6 Sydney. N.IJ.-i
ne ihegal, TaKB NO SUBSTITUTE.
—All imi.
PAUL LIEBE
Richly
BY THE MEDICAL
Faculty
lEBIG
VvW-
VERY
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED.ATALL CHEMISTS IM
~ 10* 20 oz BOTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCES t
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0.,
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time jl became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely'bald.”
J. W. Bo we it, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy ana soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mb. Angus Fairbairn, leader ~of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procuretli, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who live 3
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. 0. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elv i
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair, it
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
„ prepared by
DrJ C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OP
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DEAFEST SALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Bf" Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than over,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
JES LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£S MOUKNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. Prench Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
S 1 Lady’s Bonnet
>1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aceouchements, we
hav e also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &e.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement.
lx Bppll6d t 0«
RILEY BROTHERS,
X6S Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healiDg, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 JHatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
A. ft C. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmsad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALF PRICE.
mo Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
X. and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man or long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
NNUAL CHRISTMAB FESTIVAL.
PEAPES and SHAW
Invite special attention to their large assortmen t r
FANCY ARTICLES, SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTATION.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OFLUXURY
t
PEAPBS & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
f Ladles’ Hand Bags, with
and without fittings
I The largest stock of beau-
Itlful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
J Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and Rus-
sian leather
j Purses, Memo. Tablets,
} Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte- de*
Yisite Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
i Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
i Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing C&seg
l and Bags, &c.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
ail sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
PBAPKS & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
-1 Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &c., &c.
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
L bination Boxes of Toys.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLB.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLB,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM,
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day!
324, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
Nervous and debilitated suffbreks.
—A medical treatise, showiDg how you may
De cured without consulting a medical man. With
valuable recipes for purifyiDg the blood, removing
shin diseases, urinsi affections, indigestion, &c. t
Sent post free, for six penny stamps. Addresq
Medico, P. 0., Box 766, Sydney.
SOMETHING' NEW!
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
AND
TOOTH BRUSH
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard,
or moustaehe, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited,
to read the brief but interesting descrip*
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in.
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Electric
Association.
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetic
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not affected by acids,
impervious to
moisture, and free
from that
pleasant musty
odour
ding 1
wet bone
handles.
m
tTBriE
PALL MALL
Electric
ASSOC/A TlOtt
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler. It
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electrio
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex can use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
Loirooir, England.
—. Scott, New York.
Your “ Crimper and Curler 1
■works charmingly. Its effect
oauses universal admiration.
They are most simple to use. *
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
_ „ , Carmos Ci.cb, Loxdojj-, W.
Br. Scott s Electric Curler " curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. I). \V.G,
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to ttie quick benefits following the use of Dr Scott’s
Electric Tooth Brush and many experts in dentistry declkre it to
of LtmciS teeth. VenUW W sinte i* l6 manufactuie
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
Health ensured by using
Hr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth
or Insoles.
sZ
■v
&EEX
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott bear this labeJJ
BEWAEE OP
WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s. 6d.*eacli, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Kemittanojs can be made by cbeque, P. 0.0., stamps, or ourreney, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
$4 s£ars»rof-strs«t' Sydney-
P.O. BOX, 221. *


MR. WILKINS' AMBITION.
AN EPISODE IN THE LIFE OF AN AUSTRA-
LIAN MILLIONAIRE.
[BY A. B. ORIGINAL.]
Mi». Daniel Wilkins should have been a happy
and contented man. flavin# known poverty and
low estate in his youth and early manhood, he
should now, in his middle age, have been able to
heartily appreciate the advantages he possessed of
vast wealth and the position of elevation it gave
mm above the majority of his species, not to men-
tion a handsome and devoted wife, still young,
and a sufficient number of interesting children,
the eldest of whom, a boy, bad already distin-
guished himself at school. Still further considera-
tions should have conduced to Mr. Wilkins’ happi-
ness. His appetite was healthy to heartiness ;
his cpok was an artist; his liver was in perfect
condition; he had no poor relations—or at least he
acknowledged none; and his was or might have
been the proud reflection that he owed all his for-
tune to his own energies, to the superiority of
his business aeumen over that of the majority of
the men he had in his money-making career came
in contact with, and to the noble organ of acquisi-
tiveness with which a generous Providence had
endowed him.
And yet Mr. Wilkins—Dan Wilkins, th 1 ? great
Australian millionaire—as he sat one morning at
11 in onS of the gorgeously-furnished receptions
(called on account of the delicate tint of colour
which characterised it the salmon-room) of his
vast mansion in Pontif Square (London), which
had been purchased at a fabulous figure from one
of the proudest of England’s noble families, his
small but somewhat obese figure almost buried in
a luxurious arm-chair, was far from being either
a happy or contented man. On the previous even-
ing he had given a ball, which, in many respects,
had been a triumph. A large number of the
creme de la creme of society had accepted his invi-
tations for the first time. Moreover, Royalty had
graced his saloons, and had actually remained 20
minutes by Dan’s gold repeater.
Mrs. Wilkins had played the grande dame to per-
fection, and altogether everyone but the million-
aire himself voted the occasion a complete success.
“It is unbearable,” ho muttered, gloomily.
“ After scattering my money broadcast far three
years, society has condescended to be entertained
by me. But what did they come for? To view
that outlandish animal the Australian squatter in
his lair. I heard their remarks. I heard the word
* Parvenu,’ and the exclamation ‘ and all this comes
from poor sheep’s backs, did you say ?’ How won-
derful 1 No, I shall never be one of them while I
am plain Daniel Wilkins. I must have a title
whatever it costs.”
At the moment Mr. Wilkins came to the conclu-
sion that a title was necessary to his happiness, the
door opened, and a tall, thin man lounged into the
room,
“ Well, Dan.,” remarked the new-comer, stretch-
ing himself lazily upon a couch, “ you are doubt-
less gloating over last night’s social triumph.”
‘‘That I am certainly not.” answered Mr. Wil-
kins, somewhat irritably; “I can find nothing to
gloat over.”
Mr. Edward Rolfe looked up from the couch in
great surprise. He and Dan. Wilkins had been
neighbours and chums in Australia, and, notwith-
standing that they were as different in disposition
as in appearance, the friendship between them
was so strong that Mr. Wilkins had not been long
settled in England with his “ pile ” before he wrote
hogging his friend to come over and spend a year
with him, an invitation which had been readily
accepted. Mr. Wilkins desire for the companion-
ship of his old chum was, perhaps, not altogether
disinterested, for llolfe was a man of birth and
education, and having, before his voluntary exile
to the Antipodes, moved in a good set, he would
now be invaluable to the suecessful squatter as a
pilot among the shoals and quicksands of society.
Moreover, Mr. Wilkins was conscious that Rolte
was the only disinterested friend he possessed, and
the only man who always told him the unvarnished
truth, a quality Which, although often in its exer-
cise disagreeable to the feelings, was of peculiar
value to a man in his position.
~«^i rotb,nfir t 0 £ loat over?” eohoed Mr. Rolfe.
“Why, what an insatiable fellow you are! Two
Royalties, a Cabinet Minister, ten ambassadors, a
duchess, and I should be afraid to say how many
miscellaneous titles. You ought to be half dead
with happiness. Imagine what the simple folks in
Australia will say when they hear of it.”
“ They will say that Dan Wilkins may entertain
these people, but he is not one of them, and I feel
that it is true. I felt it last night, Ted; my guests
made me feel it. I heard remarks.”
“My dear Dan., how often have I told you that
you must not expect good manners—which I un-
derstand to mean a tender regard for other
people’s feelings—in the society you are at present
courting. Remarks! If you begin by noticing
remarks, you will be either in Australia or Colney
Hatch Asylum in a twelvemonth. You know
how I despise the prizes you are aiming at, but I
must say last night’s event was a great success.
Your wife was splendid.”
“And I?” asked Mr. Wilkins, nervously.
“You? Well, you were—ahem—well enough,
considering; though rather nervous, perhaps, and
self-conscious. If you had been simply yourself
it would have been all right, but you were not.
Excuse me saying so, buc you should not have
permitted yourself to be so overpowered when the
big wigs arrived.”
Mr. Wilkins blushed scarlet, and bit his lips pain-
fully. It was a marvel to his friend how a man
could endure such torture in the pursuit of so
worthless an ambition.
“ It would appear that I at least succeeded in
amusing my guests,” remarked Mr. Wilkins, bit-
terly, when the mental twinge had passed off.
“You mean, that they laughed at you. I did
not hear them, but no doubt they did,” answered
Rolfe frankly. “ But what of that ? You must
go through the mill like thousands of otners have.
Your turn to laugh will come later on. In the
meantime emulate your wife. She is quite equal to
the situation. Women always adapt themselves
to altered circumstances more readily than men.
Remember that you have far more to be proud of
than these people, for you conquered fortune for
yourself and you could buy up the majority of
them. The reflection will give you dignity, and,
pardon me, Dan, that is the thing you waat.”
“There is something I require stiil more,” said
Mr. Wilkins, “ and that is a title.”
Mr. Rolfe shrugged his shoulders as expressive
of his supremo contempt tor such baubles.
“And, pray, what good would that do you ? ”
“Good?” cried Mr. Wilkins;, “every good!
eoupled with my wealth, it would secure me the
position, the respect, the consideration I require.”
“I know wise men who persistently reject such
honours,” remarked Mr. Rolfe, “ Gladstone and
Morley, for instance.”
“ I’m neither a Gladstone nor a Morley,” replied
the millionaire.
“True, very true,” murmured his cynical friend,
retlectively.
"My ambition is, I think, not an ignoble one,”
pursued Mr. Wilkins, warming with his ther-e,
“I aspire to re-found what was once a great
family. When Richard the second came to the
throne ”
“Stay!” interrupted Rolfe, in undisguised
alarm, “ for heaven’s sake, don't let us enter into
the ramifications of the genealogical tree of tne
great house of Wilkins. You bought it, and paid
for it, like a man, and therefore you have every
right to it. I’m quite prepared to accept it as
gospel, but the subject is too full of intricacies for
my weak intellect. Let us return to the point. A
title is necessary to your happiness. Good tobacco
Is far more necessary to mine- but no matter.”
“ Look at the power it gives one!” interrupted
Mr. Wilkins, folding his arms and knitting his
brows, in the unconscious endeavour to invest
himself with the dignity of bearing becoming to
a title, “as Mr. Wilkins, lam nobody. Everyone
is not to know that I am a millionaire. 1 may be
Susbed and hustled about like any ether man.
ut, as Lord ”
“Fitz wilkins,” suggested Mr. Rolfe, pleasantly.
“ Well, say Lord Fitzwilkins. 1 should be
courted, considered, and waited upon. In travel-
ling, my name upon the luggage would be suf-
ficient to seoure for me the devotion of guards,
porters, hotelkeepers, stewards, and the like. You
know, yourself, how, in the colonies, which are
naturally democratic, and even in republicar
America, a Lord Is worshipped.**
.) es > V f ,? ow Y' re Phed Mr. Rolfe, wearily, “and
the knowledge is not calculated to elevate one’s
estimation of the human race. AgaiD, let us re-
turn to the point- You hunger for a handle to
anxious to help you with
!hl ,°f e '+il e ’ In. the first place, you have not gone
about this matter in the right way. You are
known to be immensely wealthy, and you are ex-
pected to plank down ’ accordingly. Hitherto
you have spent your money in driblets.”
Driblets!” interrupted Mr. Wilkins indig-
nantly. Ive spent thousands. I’ve given
largely to every charity—where the lists appeared
in print. Then, look at the entertainments I’ve
given.
driblets,” pursued Rolfe, calmly. “If
f ll tbe mon ey you have irittered
mi* ke «?, at * or one hi?c °up, you would have
your title by now. Besides, you are not lavish
enough. The spirit of economy which made your
iortune is now thwarting your ambition. You are
worth seventy thousand a year. You are living
at the rate of not more than thirty thousand, I am
BPent one hundred thousand a year
judiciously for a couple ot years you would attain
After that you could be as economical
Ti ? n the meantime, open your heart,
thousand ” Plta ’° r endow a colle »e with fifty
Before Mr. Wilkins had time to consider and
reply to these startling suggestions, a servant
announced that the Duchesa of Middlesex and her
\ b , e Ladieß Leyton, had called.
I hey were in the blue drawing-room.
Mr. Wilkins became agitated.
What shall I do, Ted ”? he asked, “ Alice is
driving in the park.”
wl'T 011 mu ?t see, them, of course,” replied Mr.
It 8 a & rea t bore.”
Mr. Wilkins hesitatGdj 110 did not fGGI enual tn
facing the haughty Duchess alone.
.. Yt°7 ou 111 ind coming with me, old man?”
iNot at all, if you wish it,” answered Rolfe
smiling at his friend’s panic-stricken face. ’
The two gentlemen found the Duchess and her
daughters fuil of amißbiiity. Mr. Wilkins, tremb-
ling with mingled pleasure and nervousness
listened to her Grace’s congratulations on the bail!
which she declared would be remembered as one of
h re . at events of the season. She and her daugh-
hn«^ni!ie?JOyed so much that they had
hastened to pay their congratulatory visit. Mr.
"PRAISE FROM SIR HUBERT STANLEY.”
“I SAY, BILLY, SHE’S A STANLEY."
Wilkins was rosy with gratification, which he
made an effort to express. Mr. ttoil'e smilingly
and silently awaited the sequel. It came jdstas
the ladies were about to leave.
™{lwu by u tbe ' c tl^ e ’. Mr .: Wilkins,” said her Grace,
with the cheerful air of one who is about to confer
a Sr?. at fav ° u .r, “ I had almost forgotten. There is
a little work in which I ain sure you would like to
jornus-I refer to ‘ The Reduced Ladies’Benefit
aed Relief Society. No doubt you have heard a
great deal of the good we have been enabled to do.
but lately we have fallen rather low in funds, and
as we intend extending*, onr operations consider-
ably we have taken the advice of Mr. Dombev
and are mating an effort.’ ”
“I shall be haopy to assist in such agood cause,”
declared Mr. Wilkins, ringing the bell. “My
cheque-book, James.”
As the millionaire moved to a bureau for the
purpose ot drawing a cheque, his friend en-
deavoured, unobserved by the ladles, to make a
sign to him, which consisted of stretching out his
hands, and holding them very wide apart. The
weli-intentioned signal, however, was lost upon
Mr. Wilkins, who, after a moment’s hesitation,
wrote a cheque, blotted and folded It, and pre-
sented it with his best manner to the Duchess.
A little conversation on indifferent subjects en-
sued* during which the three ladies retained their
amiability; out when they rose to go, it was seen
that her Grace’s manner had suddenly become
icy. Taking their cue as they invariably did
Irom their mama, the Ladles Leyton also froze.
The Duchess gave Mr. Wilkins three lingers In-
stead of four; the Lady Eva presented him with
two, and Lady Laura with one. When they had
swept from the room, Mr. Wilkins sank into a
chair, wiped his fevered brow, and looked ques-
uoningly at his friend.
‘‘ What have you done ? ” asked the lattor.
... 1 can’t imagine,” gasped the millionaire-
have I commuted some dreadful solecism ? ”
‘ Certainly not. It would have been wiser to
have sent your subscription to the secretary of
the society, perhaps, instead of calling for your
cheque book, and you forgot to enclose the cheque
in an envelope before handing it to the Duchess.
But those are trivialities. I suspect it was not tue
manner of receiving, but the amount of the
cheque which offended her Grace. I caught her
in the act of half opening, and glancing at it.
Pray what was the figure? ”
“Five pounds.”
Mr. Rolfe fell hack in his chair with a groan,
live pounds, ’ he cried, “why. man, you must be
mad. A Croesus, who wishes to bring society to
his feet, gives five pounds to the Duchess of
pefc 80ci(it y 1 t sadly fear, my poor
.. n iV th at your case is hopeless.”
o-i„il < 17 J much . more would you have had me
Mr. Wilkins, much offended.
< C lve away to the small charities in
a P ound P9 fceS| during the year, would support
a^® l and it does me not the slightest
„9 r the subscriptions are not published,
otherwise 1 should, of course, give more.”
,? u exact| y bear me out in what I said just
now, responded Mr. Rolfe—“ that you fritter
your money away in driblets. Had the mendicant
been any other than the Duchess of Middlesex it
would not have been of so much consequence.
fW*; Wm must surely be aware that her Grace, be-
sides being one of the acknowledged leaders of
ardent and influential politician, and
that the Duke is a shining light in a great party,
which cannot, in the natural course of events, be
much longer out of power; the party, too, to
which you have attached yourself.”
’ Tt i? n la m lost,” groaned Mr. Wilkins, “ I had
forgotten. What’s to be done ? Shall I send her
Grace another and bigger cheque ? ”
•Most certainly not,” replied his friend
promptly, “that would be far too palpable a move.
-Lo-'t us consider. This diplomatic dead-lock is be-
coming quite interesting.”
A conversation of considerable length and
warmth ensued, in which Mr. Rolfe gave his
ambitious friend the benefit of some sound advice.
M® ar ,®L ue h that Mr. Wilkins had not attached
himself with sufficient fervour to his political
party; at any rate, he had not given any very
substantial proof of bis attachment. That party
in L, Probability come into power very
®“JP r fjL^ r fcttat was almost as certain as that they
would not hold the keys of office longer than a
few months, or perhaps weeks. Under these cir-
cumstances, it was for Mr. Wilkins to make hay
while the sun shone. The next question was as to
the character of the hay to be made. Mr. Rolfe
strongly recommended a handsome contribution
to the election fund of the party—the general
elections were approaching—and the endowment
of a college.
Pressed by his friend as to figures, he suggested
ten thousand pounds for the former, and fiftv
thousand for the endowment.
, Mr. A hhins approved of everything suggested
but the figures, which almost took his breath
away. He declared that such prodigalitv would
rum him. The natural instincts of the man
asserted themselves; the principles which had
guided him to fortune were by no means dead If
; you had offered to sell Mr. Wilkins a horse worth
£3O for exactly that sum, he would have endea
voured to beat you down to £l5. He was of that
class of buyers mentioned in Holy Writ, who
after crying- “It is nought! it is nought I” subse-
quently go their ways rejoicing.
And so he now argued and beat down Mr. Rolfe
as though it were from that gentleman he was
purcnasing a peerage. In the end, both the
amounts suggested were cut down exactly one-
half.
In the course of the afternoon, and unfor-
tunately at a time when Mr. Rolfe with his shrewd
sense did not chance to be available, Mr. Wilkins
cheese-paring policy again came into play. Ho
was visited by a Mr. Strongpeone, a gentleman
who, in his position as a journalist, had done good
service with his pen for Mr. Wilkins since his
advent into London society; service for which he
had received no return-nor, indeed, had he
hitherto sought it, beyond occasional invitations
to the great man’s house. Latterly, Mr. Strong-
penne had sustained some severe losses, and he
was now temporarily in deep water. Under these
circumstances, and remembering Mr. Wilkins’
many expressions of interest and good will, he had
called to beg the loan of £3O for a few weeks.
Being a sensitive man, he made the request ner-
vously, but never doubting for a moment that it
would be readily and cheerfully complied with.
His astonishment and indignation will, therefore
be readily imagined when Mr. Wilkins, after a
long and serious sermon on the tendency borrow-
ing had to destroy the independence of a man’s
character, to lead to iil-feeliag and the severance
of friendship, and the advisability of each man
lighting his own way unaided through life, offered
to present him with £5.
Burning with mingled shame and resentment.
Mr. Strongpeane coldly declined the offer and
abruptly departed.
The fact was that Mr. Wilkins, conceiving that
the journalist could be of no further use to him,
considered that a compliance witn his request
would have been “frittering money away,” and he
was much astonished in tne evening, when he
related the incident to Mr. Ilolfe, that his conduct
was very far from gaining that gentleman’s ap-
proval. He had not the wit to see that, notwith-
standing his cynicism, Rolfe’s heart was a thousand
times larger than nis own.
In a few days Mr. Wilkins’ two splendid gifts
were known to the world, and were toe talk of
society. The £5OOO to the election fund of his
party came at a time when it was most needed,
and the blushing little squatter was button-holed
at the club by noble lords, who broadly hinted ot
the pleasure they would ere long experience of
M,® thom ln the Upper House. The
nsfwt^. l in« B 'i n i he dullness o£ his heart, and th
phffrVahaH t i 3ipat on ol the oarl y realisation of h
dream, fi’ave a more magnificent ba
wirhth 6 previo .us one, to which all society camp
who was indi^pKjsed.° £ the Duchess of M ‘ddle B ex
political marched with raDid
nnsfkp?,°nn ard ®pl e^ Ulfilment oE Mr - Wolfe's
J?? 8 /‘Ration. The Government were at laar do
ed m by a Bmall majority. Their opponent
and there ensued the usual scramble
lor place and preferment. o^aumie
in Um;.m°minK Mr. Wilkins, his ilorid face beam
tah ,^ I th! T f tl M Cat j on ’ read alou(i at the breakfast
Morn™,? following announcement from the
thefirat™ L oli V~ understand that among
nanim wn b ele /£ ted to the peeratre will be Mr 8
Herts l ' Vl J kla s. of Pontif-square and Woolbrooke
nn e l L WhO r e distinguished services to his partv
&c &c, &c glfC t 0 St - Juda8 ’ CoOego,'& c y
WWhins was receiving the congratn
is£ons of >? wlf e and friends the Duke ami
° f f Middlesex were in their home Tna
neighbouring* square, holding a slight arcumfint
asAa dm ‘ *°«»s?w u ,ns
her Grace*was ajklD ™ aD reeelve suc “ distinction?' 1
‘•Why should he not ? ” replied the Duke • « ho
K§= heTOto Sf’moSty to toe gmSlTam’
B ‘ ft “
othernothing,” said the Duchess. “ Amomr
I remember that Mr Wiiion?
when asked for a contribution to mv net S’
presented mo with a cheque for £5 ~y P anty,
and decision of my colleagues ” Th^ U n ge^ent
sarkSafft
■gfisisss?
the JFi'SSSP'yJ?
kiTrSSSSrMI 0,17 °‘ Whloh he ls ‘“»
■£Sr s °‘^^
fy. ZS plfiSZ'&&£Z y &S ! ‘X£&
lian journals that nothing could create snnh
WilkS ele?aBon ißB tf,», ,mo 'Jt AuBtraM »"» M Mr"
T^ r ,V? olf , e .f£ 8 sit Ung in the library reading
Thackeray’s “ Book fo snobs,” a few davs later
when his host suddenly burst in upon him his
face flaming with wrath and chagrim ’ 18
citedlJ a Ca The?^! meaD ’ Ted he asked ex-
paltry baronetcy P Cd me a ba ronetcy, a
ri „f l V : P eaD s>”replied Mr. Roife calmly, and with.
? a t betraymgthe leant surprise, ‘‘three thimrs
i-etfe 7, that the Duchess of Middlesex has not for-
gotten your donation to her pet charity • seconriiv
who KoSf D hGF iXtImmSSSIS
gf r l
on* the’staff of the SSffiJf'f s*"-™"“* is now
young Melbourne professionals have
been tor some months past “missing friends “to
it wastoldth ft t C thA Wh en inquired for
;i,„. as . 1 ‘•hM they were “under a eioud ” and
their invisibility was thus accounted for To
SJT
X,™
debt, and be got frightened at it. With me it is
ton d ltTn P nihinV D 2 1 have eot used t 0 thesitua-
tion. it s nothing when you are used to it!’’
After great and unceasing effort Mr
As a semhl v e h^s m m r - fo S Gl PP BlaDd in the Victorian
Assembly, has obtained a milk train to run to thi
metropolis for his dairy-keeping constftuents
htfshn^ia 8ati8lle(1 with him. They
say that he should have got it for them in th«
®® a ® on ‘. 1 he commercial value of this idea neods
no explanation. They send their milk off nure
and unadulterated from the cow. They are ab?e to
swear to this when required. Half a can/ui is nu?
into a barrel and the barrel ia left open 1? is
three-parts full by the time thoy reach Melbourne
Of course it is no fault of theirs 'the railk-aealers
there stand in with them, and every thing issweet
miit 6 no U^er . coaipla,in the answer is ready. The*
milk came straight from the cow, and the hand of
into i? 6V w P n t aBmuch a 8 a thimbleful of water
P} I ®, it-,,. w e do not say that this is the exact plan
toitu G JPPsland dairymen, but they are welcome
is*little fear°of tiS 18 n ° bett ° n But there
Ellen vale, Townsville, Aug. 18, 1885.
Gentlemen, I have much pleasure in advisiincr
you that 1 have used St. Jacob's OU in mv family
for sore throat and rheumatic pains with great
success, ana consider it one of thebest remedies
ever put before the public. I have also usfd It
upon my poultry for croup and throat disorders
and have always found it give immediate relief'
I would recommend every poultry farmer to trv
it, and they will find that their instead o?
beintr empty, wilt be tilled with strong heaithv
poultry.—Yours faithfully, nealtny
C. WELLINGTON.
vNote.—A drench 0 f f rom two to five drops Bt.
Jacob s Oil, diluted with warm water, is a reallv
simple reliable, and harmless remedy for any n-
fw^ d i 80rder8of J )oultrjr - We believe Mr. Weh
hngtons success has been almost phenomenal
heavy lo'ses°/ 118 neighbours have suffered very
HUNTING A GRIZZLY BEAK.
, American hunter spent three months look-
ing tor a grizzly bear, and the man's relatives have
spent three moaths looking for him. They think
SiSSS
We kndVthat. Wolfb’s Schnapps is a first
readers? 016 ' and ° an recoinmeild Has such to our
nntnf fau lfc if you remain sick or
bffmerKS ell's! C *° ge ‘ Hol ’ Mtt ” s ”* a »
jJSL fLf’; witea from Kirby, 0.,
July o, i loos . Last fell my hair commenced fa)J-
i a used’pM-t nfft B hntti tim ? 1 beoame nearly bald.
J ,ar ' : °f a bottle of Ayer’s h atr Vtoow
which stopped the falling of the hair, and started
anew growth. 1 have now a full htad of hair
fo7TKf°n? USIy ’ and am convinced that but
been entirely bald J* 1 " preparatioll * should have
Wolfe’s Schnapps is more wholesome
than brandy or whisky and is a pure refreshing
beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s p e reiresmn «


Sa tS> ! ft A DC M*dK^U*}v
*ll
» HEAD stout.— This favourite brant
i* o* Stout selected with great care from to*
rh,? r^“ e brewings of the oelebrated Arm of
vGulnQ6 aB and Co„ Dublin, and therefoie
tSL'L exoelled. To be procured everywhor*.
*o° Wole A rents. __
J. H.CEDDES&CO.
xeee-e
Aiotiontut,
SMi Day«»
"Oolwid Bhup-
THtJEBDAI
At Chambtr
•/ Gommtrt*
At Warehoutt,
£ld «« 4 Tallow
peiday.
® #ra *, Bon*.
«Q.,
■ATUEDAI.
Boothor
TUEBDAI. j
1
"Wool Boomer**
Bnokland Mllli
Waterloo Killi
-And Floodrala.
Oapabilitie*,
1,000 BalM
Weakly
Delivery,
14 Days aftei
reoeptiom.
Special Bebati
on Wool Bold
by ns after
Soonrinf.
Prompt
Returns.
* r *‘*<"*»•** r»t Steck, Mod»r»U
MOITDATB 4 THURSDAYS. U “"* M
Vital fully Inaurat from raaaptlan ta itiluary.
!r “m Woolpack*, for Wool to b« Scoured by tha Fim,
forwarded Free of Coat.
WAREHOUSES & OFFICES, CIRCULAR QUAY.
anrjDiran-w'
RAW VASELINE.
A
c_
Softening: and PieserviDg Horses Hoofs-
aJ „ Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
v e ® Leather Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
p-jrjf cracking, and renders it waterproof.
its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
Iw 1 Protector, and for keeping in perfect order
us * a Jr rn s. Machines, &c. It is the sole material
J or the above purposes in the Austrian apd
armleB, ® old by all Saddlers and Store-
SOLE AGENTS:
* BLACKBURN & CO.,
"SOLfISALE BADDLEKS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 Tork-street, Sydney.
manufacturing hatters
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
-IMPORTtRSTTFAILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
obebt butcher ji cr.o.
(Late William Loner),
WINB AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
_ Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
W. M. WALLACE,
. Importer of every description of
trterature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery .
° BU *E Papers and Ha«Bslnee receive* By
*** bydnet
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
f*EE
PH-ESCKIPTIONS are to
t)« found in the “LIGHT AND
lo 8i ’^./ ortb e speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
'Hia bo(fj 1110013 ’ despondency, &c. A copy of
J ' > Will fc e ggQb f ree, scaled. Address—
B. WARD Si CO..
Sydney Pharmacy.
78 Hunter-street, Sydney,
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
m
iiVnr nyj esYff
The BAST ALB and STOUT lnthe Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WIN! 4
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents :
W. Balchin, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
CT THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,00«
Reserve Fund £150,000
Dirbctobs:
The Hon. 81r John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jm. Sarogffis, Esq.
Hon. H. B. Oohen, Ik
GICTRAL MAKAOBB:
f. ▲. A. Wilson.
Bboritabt:
Hector Allen.
Branches in Nhw South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrnaont, Redfern. Gosford, Nyngau
Bourke, Manly, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Lendenhall-street.
Directors .’
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Saq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Baq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Plnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and ad vances made against Woo.
and other produoe shipped to England for sale.
Christmas Presents.
N
OVELTIES FOR GENTLEMEN
IN
PIPEB,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CASES,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKS.
A lerge assortment of CIGARS, In all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand of
TOBACCO.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
CHRISTMAS.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
DB. BOYD,
62 CASTLEREA G H-BTREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND BURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday,
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box WO G.P.O.
■
c >
REUTEIi’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing: of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. HofVnung & Co.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRS SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
- ?-
35=%
>l®
Head Offices. «*£3
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’dersare perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices-PITT and KING STREETS.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
&
o
&
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 Geerge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES I
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,lßlotehes entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standiDg Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind ol
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chomists. Bottles, 2s. 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
tonic
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
GREAT DIGESTIVE BTRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC? It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Largo Bottles, Is. 6d. Made
x
£>*■>
r*
O' ,o
Sr
v "
,<*VVV W°
>
DR. EBIGHT'S PHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought uuon the
Individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicino, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day, Bold by all chemists.
Agent*- Riauorr Baoa.
C. B. NODIISI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
Biftkors*
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT foi
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON. London; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BUSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Gaorge.sf., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
fflHB FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
X (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT £
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may b® left for delivery
by their oarts.
They have also taken over the Agcnoy fo
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ fee Co., Limited,
Head Oißoe 21 Harbour-street
•tables ... .. Liverpool-street.
Factory .. .. Mittagong,
HOSESTY /S THE BEST POLICY
It is of the utmost importance that contents 01
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com
pareLORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SOiTThD CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS
EXUBPi
&
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Here always In STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE an! WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
AJTD
EARTHEN W A R S
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MBRCHAMDISB-
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONP
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. QA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVWand SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
ffi
fj
ISO*
Ingham’s [a
Euphorbia W|
IVfIuiMFERA
Queensland Cure
Asthma, Bronchitis
Coughs, !
4
* Thomas inohamv V
Rockhampton , f
4im*sX ‘V *. a .-• i.


L*
/ft
‘^9
IM P
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Plati
k c . ;
to
*B 0 NA-T iD E' RED UCTIOH
39 a 341 Georges*Sydney
AND AT
hIB o ufckETS T .?Et Melbourne
f
7
r J
X
£
for general debility and nervousness,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
DRINK IT J
At all Druggists and Chemists,
t fl
DRINE
brini tf l
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FEY & SCOTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ Am ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
saw
W&*M
:
m
DR. O COKT3STELD,
52 Castiereagh Street,
STTiDisrEi'y, 3<r.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
tthe Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whoso
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, ch ronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
produoing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on tlj e Paco, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
maaeafcTsafe, and private. Symptom, list free, and medicipes sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching-, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evgry kind, from whatever cause,, promptly cured. _
It is self-evident that a.physician. paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great still,
and physicians in. regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of eases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 CastlereagM Street (ground floor), Sydney.
'Qffa.e I
PROCURABLB ONLY AT THU
AMERICA!) CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTE^
Ballfernla and Eastern Bueßdieard Waggons.
mr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLBMHJ©, ISercSianS & losportafi
83 & 2 4> 01arencA, R trftfit. gvdnft* (nwt PaMtN Ho+aU
IDaxHaag' Harlooux Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor'
WP- KSPEOTAL A(WO VTMOT) ATI ON FOR COUNTRY ▼TATTOOS
HOLLIKG & SPAfiSENBERG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZE MEDAL IRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PUNOFORTEB.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Tmnrovements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
G-. J. WEIiLS,
1, Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom may be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
On WELLS*
t Hunter-sSreat, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
S® I®/!
Copyrighted.
uriEF etroßE MOUGTACH£andWHISEE23- **ronz after
Ifioyd’a Beard Elixir did this, and
ttri.ll do it on either bald head or
bare face. For ecu heavy Mom-
tachcrinfromS to \ weeks and never
/axle, 20,000 young men already
tvear full beards, having used 1 to
sy, easily applied, certain in effect. _
cnw*, * jur o«. ou., post paid, cent under cover, free from observation .
fAddreso, Prank Douglas* Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney ,N.S. W‘
each, 3 for 3 s. 6d^pt
PJ 1-
Copyrighted.
Packets I*. 6 A.
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Jamss Curtis,
TT x^dLertafeer,
84 HUNTSR & PHIhLIP STREET*.
lUNBRALB NHATLY BXBCUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Efrby iras In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtla for sixteen (18) years;
Manages for over ten (10) years.
BLAKE'S lEBPHOV£O
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY i GO.)
97 PITT STREET)
SYDNEY,
ARB SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABC)V*
and have In Stock and to arrive-*
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING Ptf**
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTItUL***
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FR**
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
pSenufscturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorino,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at .
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition av/arded the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, <ic
