

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
gsd
sfdg
A.t 1-3 per cent, discount off list
prices.
At 25 per cent discount oS list
prices.
he Favorttt
0 r Pavqrites
if
IgaggSd^Ks
m
mm
6 $
a?
«w
THE BIGGEST SUCCESS
pßesehTcemtubv—^
lowest gf**
liberal
Time Payment System
Q
NiCHQLSGN’S CORNER, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Music,
At one-third and one-fourth
the marked price!
*CHOL
SON & GO
Sydney
or ‘king and Saw-Mill Machinery.
I * **■ GREGORY and CO.,
; * 4., Aro SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
' A T
A A'ARQE STOCK of their celebrated machines,
isits for wood-working and saw-milmng in stfoex.
B®a4 for Catalogues and Price*.
0te8 : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
qqdl
&o
0/
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
•9
* Co&qtjerOß'
t era a c c O
Brn
.. Swliiaii possess the lai
i iH, J» S* Tobacco, ana
.
largest Factor* Manufacture more
■ consume more Amerioan Leaf
mist Sir Roger, Champion, and Dlxson’s Cut Tobacooi.
ttßrevy 3Lb tola-t j3l©jt,
24 O'Cormell-stxeet, Sydney,
STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Pbetoprapble Outfits, in gwat variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID la Hie Market,
Q ur Photographic preparations am recognised as the most varied
best, and Cheapest in the colonies,
OOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS A CO.,
IMPOKTEBS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 Geohge-st,, Sydney.
WOE.S
hoes


ASK FOB, COLONIAL MADE
IRE
PROOF
pvOE
PROOF
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, LimtdL,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast .
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invsllds and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in aU climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining 1 Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
feats. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6<2., 35., 6s. 6<f., Sx,
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHWHXTZB& ft CQ„ 10 ADABS-STREBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSEB.
JE». 2E&. LARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WHISKIES, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. |3W Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous JB3 Cases, containing the following:
Bottles BRANDY
Bottle JAMAICA RUM
Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant St Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 773 and 780 George-atreet, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEOKGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o .
c
6
IRONMONGERS
512 X
> L_„„;
C
t*
o
-v 5
REG?
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, jj
Albo Carbon Light.
BLECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking StaresLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &C.. &C.
J. MURPHY S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OP KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Rates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Bis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
mUEgSGEM. HOTEL,
MITTAGOK GL
Eirst-olasa Accommodation for Commercials
P£TEB MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms,
GUINNESS’ EXTEA STOUT.
FIRST QUALITY.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Kond-st., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, aid ft
<J. A. ROBBRTB.UK. J. ALCOCK G. 0. CHALMERS, R. G. WATP^^
GENERAL IRONMONGERS'
11, IMAM, ui MET Wm
Importers of
3 and REQUII
3TORB’ PLAb
” jINDING PLANx, rujKrD, w
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Ac,
-- ,-■»
SftflHKpv
lip
. ■
— 9 RB 9RB « ” - J
BAR, PLATE, BHBBT. and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED oo ? B r D »^^ T |*ol^VLpViK , r l , (
BHBBT and PERFORATED ZINC : TINPLATRB ; PIG IRON and L«AD. BlJJig; fjKrij
BRUSHWARB, FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKB, SHEARING ( jgjgjU
. ann’i 8 ® aTHBS._ ZSGa,6f&
IWIA mUJuLID oJoLAJliliNvi VI vjlUiVHllJ * JBJ»* r» i
Sole Agents for FARMER. ROBEY, and BRaWN’S pA XSW
ENGINES : READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS*
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
■ m~ Price Idsta and Catalogues furnished on appnoa ll0 *’' Slfhj
BOBEBTS, CHALMEBS, & ,
• : affßh?SlB&3*^b**f
- HARBOUR STREET, DAJH“
SYDNEY;
Head Warehouse -
Iron and Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Olio*
- SB
aaxoBOBCBO*
ttt* 0
STAB & GARTER l AMIJiV ,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNE^
Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and
memos
lIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen.
b.e most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city
THE GREAT,, NORTHERN HOTEL,
CHAHLOTTE-rLACE AND GeQRGE-STREET.
K. HMfEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
or
assorted
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
or lls 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street an,d Charlotte-plaoe. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
DA. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE,
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Siok Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought ud on the
individual as to the prooess. It moves the lungs,
liver, hea 1, kidney stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet mildness unparalleled In
medicine, andU ill most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
A —BII.IOM Rwo«
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
ec
fg
machi
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
large
designs
WITH
newest
HIGH£STfl NIS
At
lowest
f/
I**!?-
LOCOMOTIVES. TUG S ’,',at
estimated foe.
s
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22.
/
LM
.-** y.
Lost Manhood, J»«sP pOot f*
this book will be f d reas- . C O., «<■ d
penny fltftmpß * gf-WASP V»s&!^V'.
“SP^V
i --
(V
i -ssfeto?
jwjgSSi^


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4.—No. 169 -New Series.
SATURDAY, A l ( 3 US £ 7, 1886.
FlflOl -SI
The Federated Seamen and the Austra-
lian Shipping Trade.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7, 1886.
Once again the agreement between Aus-
tralian shipowners and their employees is
under review. A crisis has come which may
possibly lead to battles, fierce as those of
past years, and even more extensive in range
and disastrous in action; or, on the other
hand, may induce masters and men to join
their strength for the overthrow of a foreign
opponent. In the manner of its inception
this orisis is remarkable and deeply signi-
ficant. Formerly Capital was accustomed
to announce its dissatisfaction with the
existing conditions of agreement, by posting
a brief notioe, which Was an ultimatum; and
When Labour was discontented, the contract
With the employers was broken with but
BOant ceremony and small consideration.
The arrogance of the parties precipitated,
their mutual hatred and distrust protraoted
the strife* which in its continuance spread
disaster over the Continent. Arbitration
lent its assistance in bringing about a re-
conciliation* but this species of mediation
Was effectual only when the necessities of
one or other of the parties were such as to
force them to a settlement, which was
father a surrender than an agreement.
Masters and men regarded each other as
Stubborn and remorseless enemies, and as
sUch they fought. Far different is their pre-
sent attitude. The Secretary of the Steam-
Bhip Owners’ 1 Association introduces the
question in a letter, which is professedly an
invitation to confer, not a challenge to fight,
Therein it is shown that foreign ships, heavily
subsidised, and cheaply manned, are obtain-
ing a large Bhare of the intercolonial trade,
thereby reducing the profits earned by
locally owned ships to the lowest possible
figure. No reasonable objection can be
taken to the terms of this oommunioation.
Viewed from the masters’ standpoint, it is a
marvel of moderation. Figures are quoted
to prove that the five foreign companies
whioh are interfering so injuriously with
the intercolonial trade receive a total sub-
sidy of £422,000, and that one company—the
Peninsular and Oriental—buys its labour
for an average of than one-sixth the
amount paid to Australian crews. It is also
affirmed that expenses for repairs and pro-
visions are much less in Europe than in Aus-
tralia, a fact whioh gives to the foreign
companies another distinct advantage in
the competition for intercolonial trade.
Taking all these facts into consideration,
the Associated Steamship Owners “propose
to reduce ” the wages of the members of the
orews by about £1 per month all round.
• e ■
The Federated Seamen are not particu-
larly anxious to explain away the facts
alleged; their energies are concentrated
rather upon the proposal to make the wage-
earners subscribe at the rate of £1 a month
-per man to make dividends for the share-
‘holders. But they may well take a prelimi-
nary objection to accepting without further
proof, the assertion that capital is not re-
ceiving its due return. The letter is nicely
’timed to accompany the half-yearly state-
ment of the A.S.N. Company, which shows
a net profit of £350 only, a result that must
be in part due to the loss of the Ly-ee-Moon
in May last. It may be fairly inferred that
the Company do not consider that a vessel
of similar value will be lost every half-year,
nor can it be taken for granted that the
management of their affairs is consistent
with the true principles of economy. If the
'A.S.N. Company are unfortunate enough to
continue to lose two valuable steamers per
year, or if their business is so badly managed
that large profits cannot be made, it is too
much to expeot that the seamen and trim-
mers shall be levied upon to pay up the loss
for which they are in no way responsible.
While one company is actually losing on its
operation, another one in the same trade
may be making enormous profits. To make
the seamen of both companies forego a part
of their wage in order that shareholders
may fatfen would be injustice approximat-
ing to robbery.
* m *
This objection will, however, be of small
moment in comparison with the proposal to
reduce wages. The proposition itself will
suggest one inference or oorollary to the
men and a totally different one to the
masters. To the latter its adoption would
THE LATE DR. RUDOLF SCHUETTE.
seem to signify the willingness of Aus-
tralian seamen to submit to further reduc-
tions, at a future time, if competition with
Lascar, Chinese, and nigger-manned steamers
should again imperil the dividends of share-
holders of local companies. But this is
exactly what the Unions have laboured to
prevent. If the local companies employ
niggers, they must pay them the wages
whioh an Australian would accept. None
other than Union men may be employed on
such vessels, and the standard wage must
ba striotly maintained. To submit to the
levy for such reasons as the masters allege
would be a renunciation of all Union princi-
ples. In writing thus, we presume upon the
fairness of the wage which the men now re-
ceive. Admitting that it is higher than that
paid in any other part of the world, the fact
still remains that it is not unduly high when
compared with the Australian rates for
other manual labour. The sum that a
serang-driven Lascar may receive cannot be
taken as an index of the amount sufficient
to keep an Australian seaman and his
family, nor can it be regarded as the equiva-
lent of his labour. To justify the reduction
on such grounds is utterly irrational. As
well might the masters ask local provision
merchants t) abate 25 per cent, of their
prices because the merchants who supply
the P. and O. Company can sell at the other
side of the world at such a rate.
a * ■
The inference drawn by the men from
this demand upon their pockets for the
benefit of the shareholders naturally will
be that they are also entitled to the profits
above a certain amount paid as dividend to
shareholders when profits are largely in-
creased. Mere servants are not dependent
for the rate of their pay upon the record of
their masters’ balance-sheet. Whether
their labour is productive of large profit or
no the remuneration of a servant is un-
changed. But in this present instance the
seamen are called upon to accept a le3S re-
turn because their labour produces so small
a profit; therefore being losers by the
masters’ or companies’ loss they should also
profit by their subsequent inorease of gain.
If the owners could be induced to confirm
this view the men might possibly be induoed
to forego a part of their pay for the pros-
pect of a future bonus. Ultimately some
such system of industrial co-operation must
be adopted. Directly or indirectly the men
must in the future benefit by the result of
their own labours. Indirect co-operation of
the kind suggested may long delay the adop-r
tion of a complete system of steamship man -
agement on direct co-operative lines, but in'
the end the latter must come. Nor eataf
it be doubted that the high intelligence
and business tact necessary for tha'
working of so succesful and enduring an
organisation as the Federated Seamen's
Union would go far to ensure the prosperity
of a trading company of which every em -
ployee would be a shareholder. It can
hardly be thought that the owners in send-
ing round the hat for the eleemosynary £1 a
month intend to concede the claim which
the men would rightly believe to be in all
justice dependent upon the demand; but
unless such claim is allowed, and strongly
guaranteed, we have a suspicion amounting
to certainty that the hat will return empty
as it started, and perhaps somewhat dilapi-
dated, and even mutilated. The seamen
now hold their position securely ; it would
be worse than folly for them to surrender
it without sufficient guarantee for the ad-
vantages of so doing.
* * *
At the time of writing, there does not
seem to be much prospect that any such
give-and-take arrangement will be adopted.
The Stewards’ and Cooks’ Union deals with
the matter in a generous spirit, and is in-
clined to make a sacrifice in order to
obtain future benefits, but the seamen arc
more disposed to take other measures for
increasing the profits at present accruing to
the shareholders of the local steam com-
panies. One evident method of attaining
such fi result is by restricting the number ol
competitors for the intercolonial trade so
far as to present vessels other than Austi a-
lian from carrying intercolonial goods ot
passengers. That this ban be done is a
matter of reasonable certainty. Already, in
the case of the trade on the North-eastern
coast of Australia, the seamen have mea-
sured their strength against that of foreign
ship-owners and have succeeded in
ing them from appearing as rivals to colo j
nial companies. The mail-steamers, ancf
those loaded with tea cargoes, do not now,
venture to do any coast trade between
Queensland ports, and there is little doubt
that the same conditions could be imposed
upon steamers with regard to the trade of
New South Wales, Yiotoria, and South Aus-
tralia. The Federated Seamen cannot abso-
lutely prohibit the P. and O. and other
foreign boats from engaging in Australian
trade, but they can make it very unprofit-
able for them to do so, and this in practice
amounts to exactly the same thing. Whether
they consider the demand of the seamen a
just one or not, we are disposed to think
that the foreign owners would be unwilling
to submit to the inevitable humiliation
resultant upon a determination to resist
such a demand when made.
• • •
The right of the men to veto such foreign
competition if they are able to do so, is in-f
disputable. Self-preservation is a valid plea*
whenever methods, in themselves fair and
legal, are employed. There can be no middle
course in such a question as this. If Aus-
tralian seamen are to be forced to compete
with the Lascars who man the P. and O.
vessels, there is no reason why they should,
not be brought into competition with
Lascars on the A.S.N. Company’s boats. If,
Lascars are to reduce by their competition
the wages of European seamen, it matters
nothing in point of principle whether they
work on board a foreign or locally owned
vessel. The same reasons which justified the"
expulsion of Chinese from the A.S.N. boats’
will also be capable of supporting the seamen
in their objection to allowing Chinese and
Lascars to compete with them in other
vessels for the Australian trade. In such a


contest masters and men would fight
together, for they are equally concerned on
th# point immediately at issue, and, despite
temporary inconvenience, we believe that
publio approbation would strengthen the
hands of Australian operatives and ship-
owners.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cert'nly.
AetiOamsa to Reuter, Queen Victoria has ex-
pressed a hope that the Liberal Unionists will
Uoalesee with the Salisbury-GHurchill party.
Of coarse we all know what the old lady must
on the question; but if, as is stated by this
stipendiary romancer, she has been so foolish as
to publicly give expression to her opinions, another
peg has been put into the coffin of the rack-
renting aristocracy. What can bo expected of a
combination headed by the arrogant Salisbury,
the faineant and wealthy Hartington, heir to a
gilded dukedom, and that yelping pug pup
Churchill ? “ The aristocracy must be abol-
ished,” said Mr. Gladstone the other day, “ unless
they be distinguished in their acts by goodness
and wisdom.” The leader of the British demo-
cracy having spoken thus, it is plain that he knows
the aristocracy must go, and that they are going.
“ Goodness and wisdom,” indeed I As well
expect grapes on thorns or figs on thistles
as that the hldeously-selflah class mainly
the spawn of traitors, murderers, harlots, pimps,
and misers—the class more venal and more
wealthy than their analogues of Imperial Rome,
■hould descend from their mountains of arrogance
to treat as human beings the toiling millions on
whose sweat they batten the uncounted
labourers who in virility work for them like asses,
and in senility starve for them in the God-forsaken
workhouse; the Irish widow evicted from her
miserable hovel and cast out into the snow; the
starving patronless curate who, for his children’s
sake, has to crawl in abject misery at the feet of
the jockey who owns the chureh living he has
ypon on the racecourse from the debauohed “noble-
man” representing Victoria Ilegina, Defender of
the Christian faith. Ye gods 1 “ Goodness and wis-
dom,” from the lecherous and “ loyal ” Lord Di
Smudge, surrounded by his Totties and his Lot-
ties; from MARLBOROUftH.-drunkard, wife-kicker,
and bosom friend of the Heir Apparent; from the
brainless Gumboil throwing away scores of
poundsat the “ Battle of Flowers ” in the South of
France; from the ravisher and drunken vagrant
Who, convicted one day at the Criminal Sessions or
the Polioe Court, may, in three or six months,
leave gaol te enter the House of Lords, and by
his vote, delay for years a reform affecting the
lives and destinies of a million families. Le jour
vUndrml We all know what the German Royal
family " hope.”
Tlie Progress of Protection..
Wit* one voice the Freetrade dailies of Sydney
have vented their pious indignation against the
Protectionists who howled down the exponents
•f an opposite creed at the Protestant Hall. Abuse
without measure has been heaped upon the
*‘rabble” who refused to be guided by "the
British spirit of fair-play.” No term within the
Vocabulary of “respeotable” language is too severe
to be used in condemnation, And these papers
Should hare large experience of the unfairness of
iuoh taotics, for the one conspicuous feature of
Sydney daily journalism all through the agi-
tation culminating in the recent overthrow of
the Free-trade idol, has been the suppres-
sion of everything in favour of Protection.
The exoited electors who howled at the
most sincere and ablo of the Freetrade cham-
pions Mr. B. R. Wise, at the recent meeting, only
imitated by so doing the conspiracy of silence
with which the dailies have striven to crush Mr.
O’Sullivan, or the chorus of derision which wss
the constant answer in the same papers to the
utterances of Messrs. Heydon, Melville, and
LusOOMBB. The howlers merely followed the
example set them by the editors of the Freetrade
papers. Taught by sueh tacticians, it is not strange
that the “ rabble” resorted te similar devicss. It
was a pity that the Protectionist eause shonld
have been obseured by such a scene, for its fol-
lowers may well be moderate in the hour of vic-
tory. And it is the consciousness of the defeat of
Freetrade throughout the N.B.W. that lends
vblume te the howl of its organs In Sydney. For
* local dally to be on the evidently unpopular side
Is a thing unheard of, and it will really be very un.
pleasant for the Telegraph, Herald, News, and
Echo to pull down all the old idols and raise up
those which for years past they have been
pelting with calumns of contumely, in their
•tead. But it will have to he done.
♦
Tundher and Turf.
“The man who expeots to become great by elec-
trifying a bottle,” says Dr. Johnson, “ wonders
to see the world engaged in prattle about peace
and war.” In which saying the Doctor is abso-
lutely correct, but not exactly complete. The
man who really Is absorbed in electrifying the
bottle not only wonders that the world should
oare to prattle about its peace and war, but
becomes exceedingly Irate if it prattles so loudly
as to disturb his own philosophic calm. And wh°n
your philosopher is disturbed—or, at least, wr en
bis processes are arrested or menaced -he awakes
rudely, and, with a shout, he cries, “ Tundher and
Turf 1” like any Irishman, or H6Ue and Teufels-
droeh, like a Teuton. He flashes the free
und fiery sword like poor eld Dean Slat
THEY, or smites down the nesreefc small boy,
like Mr. Pickwigk’s friend in whem the
combative spirit was stirred by a row in the street.
The Sypnsy Daily Telegraph is seeking to
electrify a bottle just now, and the bottle is Sir
Henry Parke*. The Daily Telegraph flung
him out as a head-marine a year ago, but as he’s
gone back en tnat sin, has picked him out of the
dust-bin and set him on the operating-table, and
having nothing to All him with seeks to electrify
blm. We have all seen the lightning playing
about the poor old dead-marine, the lurid flare of
the "leaders,” the livid flashes of the "notes.” But
lomebow they don’t take on. No mirrored glow
appears through the dead dull green. They set
him up in all manner of places before all sorts of
men, with a shout like that of churchmen at
Easter, a hallelujah-king-of-glory sort of busi-
ness; but the bricklayer who wants a job or the
Ironworker spending his savings-bank balance
says: “ Confound you, what are you blatherin’
about? He is a but a dead marine after all.” Only a
dead-marine after all we have put into him 1 This
Is contemptuous heresy indeed ? You want
something better than our electrified bottle, do
you ? Your wants and your woes are not satisfied
with this grand creature which, we assure you
holds all the electricity of Free-trade? Away
with you, then—you are Irish, rebels, traitors,
Fenians, no true men whatever I You don’t want
good light or wholesome doctrine or sound philo-
sophy; you despise our bottle, you are past hope.
But this Is just about a fair parallel to that case of
the D.T. against the statue orator who advertised
in the Fbeeman last week. A young spouter, eager
for an audience, put an advertisement into an
avowed party journal which, Buttering arcund
the square, hit the man with the bottle and broke
him up with a clatter and clamour to which
“ Tundher and Turf” isilligant, and “ Hollo und
Teufelsdroch ” mild.
Abbs Libste is dead. They were covering ctae old
fellow with flowers, loading him with caresses in
London six months ago, and it was for his burial.
Many amongst them would have been glad to
bury him, for the Abbe’s knees, from his youth
upward, were stiff as were his Angers in his
extreme old age. He was presented to Czar
Nicholas 41) years ago, and in that time no
“ common ” man was permitted to approach that
presence but belly-wise-he must kneel at least
and kiss the extended hand. But the Abbe
never regarded himself as a common man, nor
did he regard any king as uncommon as to
require reverence. He advanced upright. Czar
made no sign. He came right on to the dais. Czar
Nicholas drew back, as Czar Alexander would
retreat if a man with a black beard and a
bulky waistcoat should approach him. Abbe Liszt
understood it all then, and turned with a scowl
and a laugh and left that presence for ever.
Frederick Wilhhlm sent him diamonds and a
command to appear at Potsdam. He tossed the
diamonds right and left to the ballet-girls in the
side-scenes. “They may want them, perhaps have
earned them,” said he, “ I do not take commands.”
In 1824 he came across to England, and was per-
suaded to play before the king, but the sight of
that gross beast so disgusted him that he did not
cress the Channel again for more than 50 years.
The king of England’s brutality so offeDded the
musician that the people of England were de-
prived of the pleasure of his music for half a cen-
tury. He was a marvellously great man, and free
as strong. And what friends, what associates,
he hadl Alfred db Musshf, Lamartinb,
Victor Hugo— these were the men he knew, and,
knowing them, what did he care for kings ?
From 1864 to 1871 he worked almost exclusively
for the charities of his church. He was a gold
mine te them, and it may be they worked him a
little too hard. At least he went baok to Hungary
in Tl, and Hungary gave him a pension of JSOO a
year. He wanted it, for he was still poor, though
he had earned a million, perhaps, by his art. And
then he lived a while with his daughter, who had
married Bichahd Wagnbr, and laboured ss
Director of the Academy for the Development of
Hungarian National Music. Travelled a good'deai,
and remembering that the royal beast who had
shocked and disgusted him was well dead and
buried, was induced to come to England. His re-
ception in England was one of the latest events in
his life, and the nature of it was so true to the
genius and habit of Eoglishsooisty that ’tis worth
recalling. He had been guilty of the crime of in-
sulting kings, but his marvellous fame had left
all that in the background. He was big enough
to be worshipped, and it must be said that when
English society resolves to worship it is very
thorough in the business. So duchesses hung
about the old man’s neck, and countesses smiled
sweetly on him, and princesses smoothed his long
grey hair, and the males of the order said:
"Aw pianaw deuced fine playaw, don’tcher
knaw.” And the organ of the order, whether
in jest or in earnest ’tis impossible to say, terrib y
offended the man whose real presence was ‘‘a
flgure carved by Michael Angelo, standing in a
niche apart,” by carieaturing him as a servile
duke. It is quite possible that the Vanity Fair
cartoon killed him, but if there was any fear of
the worship of society spoiling his old age, he is
better dead. The Aw from the other side meets
the Vale from this now, without discord or pain.
! Tis a white soul that goes out of the white old
man, one that served the world well, and that the
world had no power to spoil.
It is ©abled. that at the Indo-Colonial
ehavoo last week there was “a splendid dis-
play of fireworks, ineluding aa allegorical
deviee indicative of Imperial Federation.” The
latter, we hear, represented John Bull in a
triumphal ehariot driving four gaunt mules
labelled respectively “Australia,” “New laa-
land,” “ Canada,” and “ India,” at a frantic gallop
la pursuit of an Arab goat, while a oockney Jew
in the background exhibits a document signed
“Victoria,” and purporting to be a bill of sale
ever the team. The affair was pronounced in
well-iaformed circles te he aa unqualified success
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “The Bulletin’
ar® as follows
One year 34/- in advance
Half year 13/6 „ „
Quarter 0/8 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must he made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Til Bwi/Letin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly consider suggestions for
illustrations, and will carefully read, and acknow-
ledge in the correspondence column, all eontribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political,
social, or other articles, verse, short tales or
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to which
they invite attention.
Tmb Buxi/btin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respcot to MS., &c., forwarded. But the
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, send back all
unsuitable contributions which are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
stamped envelope.
Thb Bullwtin will be glad to publish properly-
authentieated social items.
CORRESPONDENCE
[ Correspondents who oive neither name nor nom-Oe-
plwme cannot expect to have their com-
munieationt noticed.]
“ James Airey ” (Stawell): Parkcs has no
show—he has juggled too much—" Nap”: Glad
of such items, but must ask you to write names
more clearly. Guessing Is not good j ournalism....
“ Hugh Vernon”: Whoever told you that it was
poetry is making a bee-line away from everlasting
truth “R.M.H.”: Circumstance noted—" St.
Arcaud”: Will deal with it....“ Oyster Johnnie ”:
We were not aware that anyone read the weekly
you name. Is it still going? “Bushman";
Sketch is held for space, and may probably be
illustrated. We fail to find the former one
‘‘B.M.P.”: Welcome "James Ayres”: He is
one of that class of politicians who generally wind
up by finding themselves in positions where they
are puzzled to know whether to plead guilty or
bring an action for 1ibe1...." R J.”: The Tory
cable correspondents of the Australian Associated
daily Press are conscienceless liars, and nothing is
more astounding than the meekness with wbioh
the public have so long endured their disgraceful
fibs. However, we can generally put our
finger on the correspondent when he lies with
more than usual unction—“ That Turtle”: We
don't believe a man can reduce himself in weight
by means of drugs without weakening himself—
“R.A.”: What university gave Mm the title of
doctor ? The B.M. Hbrald, to its eterna*dlsgrace,
so dubs many quacks whe prey upon the vitals of
the public “J.G.S. ” (Tauranga, N.Z.): If we
did, there’d likely be another Bryce and Rusden
case “Watt Wiggins”: Thanks; acceptable —
"Cato”: Awaiting treatment "Old Maok”:
Not knowing, can’t 5ay...." Nemo.”: Will notice.
....“Spriggatius”: Poems not up to the mark.
Let us know when you intend sending the rest,
and we will hire a iurnaee.." A.W.C.” (Mel-
bourne): Good verse...." H.D.” Certainly
" Ajax ” (Glenfield): Thanks for your suggestion.
"Children’s Column” will be continued from
time to time, but we are afraid the other subjects
are quite apart from our sphere “Ptolemy”:
“ Ode to a Corpse ” received. We cremated him*
" 5.8.” (Melbourne): Anything you may send
will be carefully read,... "Renfrew” (Glebe): You
and your fellow-electors have the honour of being
represented by two men who might cast a lustre
around the meetings of a second-class debating
society, or impart a deeper tinge to the yellow
agony of an L.O.L. gathering, but in the Assembly
they are about as useful as last week’s Echo, and
as muoh regarded, as Brickhill’s Baby or Bladen’s
latest—would that we could say tost—effusion
" F.T.L.”: Very good indeed...." A Contributor,”
&o. (Tumut): Glad to hear from you again
“True Patriot”: Your argument is based greatly
on the fact that a few " upholders of England’s
greatness ” were recently run in at Dublin for
shooting some Home Rulers. Sweet William, of
pious and immortal memory, will turn on his fry-
ing-pan when he hears the news " Dingo ”
(Thargomindah): Rayless as a pool of ink...." J3r-
dan Doosey ”: In England the electors aren’t so
"knowing” as in the colonies, and they are,
moreover, more apt to believe what a candidate
tells them about himself—the social penalties for
lying being so severe in old country political
circles as to deter an ordinary man from dealing
wholesale in mendacity. You can’t wonder at any
rich colonial toady, who in Australia has posed as ; a
Liberal, making his way in a country where a man
has only to lie himself into notice. Twelve thou-
sand miles from Australia he can afford to defy
the colonial truth "James Stainsby”: We
can’t fully discuss the matter “ at the length of say
a couple of columns.” Very likely Rev. Mr.
Grlbble’s charges against the clergy of Western
Australia have at least a basis of truth. The
authorities of W.A. are responsible for the la-
famous cruelty with which the local blacks have
been treated, and in W.A. nearly all power is in
the hands of a few comparatively rich families.
We should not be surprised to find that the bulk of
the W.A. clergy grovelled to wealth, and pandered
to power (as they do in other places), instead of
riskily espousing the cause of the oppressed
The Christianity of the churches means, not “ sell
all thy goods and give to the poor,” but rather
"neglect the white man and the black man at thy
gate, and buy breeches for the distant nigger who
doesn’t want’em.”—"March”: We don’t know,
any more than we know why the Sunday Timm
publishes an hotel directory on the grogless day
of the week....“ Ode on the Exhibition”: Bosh
•’C.G.”: We have never heard that such was the
case “J.DR.” (Narrandera) : The individual
you describe may be various kinds of an ass, but
he wouldn’t look very amusing in print. "Lar-
rikin ”: (1.) Marriage with a deceased wife's sister
has never been legal in England. (2 ) At the Com-
monwealth private property in land existed, but
the holders were obliged to find nearly all, say nine-
tenth*, of the money required for the purposes
of government. (3.) Write to Angus and Robert-
sod, 11* Market-street, Sydney...."A.J.C.”: We do
not believe it to be a fact that Lord Carington has
promised to send his carriage to Larry Foley’s
Gymnasium on Saturday night to convey the
beaten bruisers to their respective abodes, but we
really do not think it would be much less dignified
to do so than it was to cart home a mashed foot-
baller last week—"C.G.M.G.”: Next issue ...
“8.M.” (Toolburra) : Will consider “M.D.”
(Junee): Held for consideration...." A Contribu-
tor”: Your tropioal comments will duly appear
“ A.T.C.”: Will shortly deal with the whole
question. Meanwhile, eluteh your money...."T.
Christie’’....Please call en editor ..."T.H.M.”:
Remanded for a week.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Central Australian " calls the
Bourke water supply scheme a “Moses and the
rock affair.”
The Belfast Newsletter says that the
safety of the Empire depends on Ulster. We
always thought it depended upon Parkes and
Frawncis Habigle and Jawbone Neild.
In Christchurch (N.Z.) there are about ten
corps of volunteers, consisting of artillery,
cavalry, engineers, cadets, and reserve—but there
is not a single rifle among the lot. Russian papers
please copy.
Gundagai doctor to old local identity:
" Well, and how did you catch this cold of yours ?”
Arra musha, God knows, sor. The only thiDg I
can blame for it is that I washed myself yester-
day.”
It seems very likely that there will be no
bik Exhibition to commemorate the Centenary of
N S.W. The occasion will be marked merely by
publio orations. Jawbone Neild is already in
training.
At Penola (8. A.) a set of false teeth have
been seized by the customs officers for non-pay-
ment of duty. The owner is ÜBing very bad ian-
guage, but he has to gum out his abuse until he
gets the teeth.
In Gippsland there lives a baker who is
more solid on the Commandments than even
finery Parkes. He charges 9d. for a loaf on week
days and Is. on Sundays, under the pretext of
devoting the additional 3d. to charitable purposes.
In case of there being any hitoh in getting
one of the young Princes to open the Jubilee
Exhibition, I the people of Adelaide have requested
the Agent-General in London to make enquiries as
to the possibility of obtaining the carcase of the
late John Brown for the ceremony.
Despite the handsome Government and
private rewards offered, Mr. E. M. Bagot, the mis-
sing Adelaide cattle-salesman, cannot be found.
There is reason to suspect that he incautiously
went for a walk with one of the local Sunday-
school saints and was embezzled.
Mr. Young, a few days ago, declared in
the Victorian Assembly that the people of Ararat
had wasted the Government money by building a
batb » wbere he had seen “ the garments
of both sexes hung out to dry.” Among them he
fancied he recognised the shirt of the local mem-
ber, but he was not sure.
The Yass (N.S.W.) Evening Tribune an-
nounces that it will suppress the names of “ re-
spectable” drunks provided they pay ss. to the
hospital. Beastly drunks apparently receive no
such consideration. The editor does not state for
what consideration he will undertake to suppress
a member of Parliament.
A ball has been held at Newcastle “to
celebrate the anniversary of the return of the
N.s.W. contingent from the Soudan.” A large
number of balls are also going on in London on
the same account. They are gilt balls, and hang
xtq establishment of the Jews who lent
N b. W. money to kill niggers while she was politi-
cally drunk.
The military profession must be going to
the dogs, judging from an advertisement in the
d.M. Herald:— “Good general wanted for a
gentleman’s family.” Probably it emanates from
some Potts Point aristocrat, who thinks it will
b ® ® grand thing to yell out when he has visitors,
‘ Moltke, pass Mr. Smith the beans,” or “ Moukh-
tar Pasha, hurry up with the coals.”
The Melbourne coroner, Dr. Youl, stated
in a late inquest that fair-haired men were not so
well fitted to cope with rank odours as dark-haired
men. He was asked the reason why, and replied
that it was a physiological mystery. It is not so to
us, however. Almost all the mashers we have seen
—young men with locks parted in the middle, don’t-
cherknow ?—have been dark-baired. See ?
Rev. Ashmead, of Mudgee, says that, “if
he spoke an uncharitable word against persons of
another religion he would be breaking the rules
that an Orangeman should strictly adhere to, viz.,
‘to strenuously avoid all uncharitable words or
actions towards his popist fellow beings.’ ” Now,
what is “Popist” but an offensive term for a
Roman Catholic ? But then no parson except Syd-
ney Smith ever was a humorist.
“The detectives are enquiring re the per-
sons who placed the effigy of a woman on the
Ararat line, causing the railway officers to believe
that a female had been cut to pieces.” We are
glad that Justice is dogging the miscreants who
have perpetrated this atrocity. However, as there
would, even were a woman really killed, be no
traces of flesh and blood, it is bard to say, after all,
whether some poor creature has not died. Modern
women are all clothes.
A Sydney paper recently published the
following surprising item of news:—“An aged
labourer named James Thompson, while riding on
the platform of an excursion train due at Redfern
at 8.50 p.m. on Saturday, lost his hat and then his
footnold, but was pulled bach ©n to the platform
by a fellow-passenger with a broken thigh which
was fractured by the platform of the station as he
whirled by.” We are informed that an elderly lady
who was sitting in the carriage when the accident
happened with a dog was so much frightened that
she fainted, barking loudly, and had to be re-
moved to the hospital. She was a black and tan
terrier, with a white spot on her nose, but though
her bonnet was badly crushed she suffered no
erious injury.
Mr. C. Hayloox, surveyor, died of heart
disease at Narandera. Tew Burveyorfl were better
known than Haylock in the bush or in the city;
good at work and good at play Just a little too
good at this latter, perhaps, for the widow and
children he leaves behind. But that only makes an
opportunity for the Riverine squatters to display
their proverbial generosity.
Newcastle bicycle races were a huge suc-
cess. Fully 3500 present, including lots of ladies,
Tae course, 28 yards short of the quarter-mile, was
perfection, except for its narrowness, and won-
derfully fast. Local entries were limited, but
s<3me of the men, notably Fairhall, Turnbull, and
G- ataam, promisa well. The committee went in
for long races in heats, but the competitors didn’t
s«e it, and the three-mile handicap and two-mlle
bracelet races were each run as one event. The
maiden mils resulted: Turnbul, Reilly, Booth,>the
last-named riding finely from soratoh. Quirk
(Manly) took the safety prize. Phizackerley won
the three-mile, the limit man, J. Reed, with 175yds.,
coming second. Salwey, Chapman, and E.
M'Donald all came down in one great smash, and
the two latter had only themselves to thank. In
the final heat of the two-mile (championship of
the the Northern district), Reed led slowly on
sufferance till the last lap, when Fairhall
went ahead and won by 80yds. The final
for the two-mile open handicap resulted in
a magnificent struggle, when Turnbull beat
Kerrigan by hardly a foot. Turnbull will very
likely come down to the Association ground and
give trouble some day. Phizackerley, who was
virtually scratch at 40yds , won the five-mile open
handicap from Fry (175yds ), who had to do all the
running; and the ladies’ bracelet handicap of two
miles resulted in Chapman getting in first, Quirk
second, Fry third, M'Whinnie being untrained,
and Reed baked by his previous exertions, Coap-
man again nearly caused a catastrophe by boring
Quirk against the outiide rails as he was passing,
and if the latter had protested, the committee
m.sfe hive given him the race. The Newcastle
people never laughed like they did atßollinson,
at the masher learning to ride ; and Maltby made
them gasp. He rode the siDgle wheel without
handles right round the quarisr-miletiack. At
night the prizes were handed over by C. H. Han-
nell, after a good spread at Sidney’s hotel. F,
Reed, who rode 14 miles during the afternoon, re-
ceived a special prize for his hardihood and pluck.
Dogs were very numerous, and next time there
are bicycle races the committee ought to keep
them off the trae s- , This might either be floue by
providing them wi'h a grand stand <_r tome-
powder and shot.


has.been'euLmonedto VlGt ° r{& ’
o ? er * {s *' “
- g °’ a > nd has complied, in defer.
ence to her Majesty's com-'
ftianci “ And swearing
he would ne'er consent,
©oasented, —— J3vkqn.|_ j
-- Id connection
with Baron Macky's proposal to found a
Russian colony in New Guinea, the
Russian press reminds Liaron Me clay
that any attempt. induce Russian/ Ur
emigrate is an indictable offence. is
likely that the aehdtne will co]| a ,- )Se _
Z/77/uzfijvy 7x'-ti's<&/c*7z- /
Tf he §i~o/b\s CLf&ome, tie
S# //Aefy fo 7nc7/cy--
td ro
bfoaruf #*■ C jJ-f e #
de 7£md7d*c/fh7n<*
Prominent Citizen (reading letter ot invitation) . :• Great C*sar 1 they
want to a banquet. Well, I suppose I shall have to do as Dailev
«id old Sir John did—take to my bed at once."
A membef of the Daily Tele-
graph editorial staff has gone on
a lengthened tour of the pastoraJ
districts with a view to obtaining
information od the subject of the (and question. We fear his tmir wit
have to be verv “ lengthened ” indeed tour
Disabled Pugilist (to Lord Carington, who is driving him to the hospital "1g
his own private carriage”): “ 1 tell yar wot it is, Cully, this’ll be the poplarest
dart you have been up to yet. Bein’ seen ’n company with Me,
the head of' the perfeshion, will make you solid with wot yohd
call the dangerous classes. Why, that ere footWl cove wot? Wp
sent to the ’ospital last Saturday in your private kerridge, amt
to it.”
HOT POND OF CATS.
On Saturday, arrangements were made at the Woolloomooloo lock-up
for tli® flogging of two men, but a message was received from the Minis-
ter for Justice directing that it should not be carried out. It is under-
stood that Mr, Gar van considered the circumstances of the offence did not
warrant the infliction of the corpora] punishment.
TOPICS OF THE TIME.


Personal
Items
The great Australian Jonah, Hon. Patrick
Perkins, of Queensland, bas been wrecked again
this time on land. He was in the late railway
smash at Portsmouth.
Mr. Arohibdld Forbes had twelve of the
medals bestowed upon him by European Princes
for distinguished valour, strung together witn a
gold chain for a necklace for Miss Meigs, now his
bride.
The Empire in in danger! At a Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.) foundation-stone flare, three cheers
were called for the local Mayoress, Mrs. Wiley,
before anyone thought of Mrs. Wettin, alias
Guelph.
Maoklay, Maklay, M'Leay, and Maoleay
are some of the forms in which Baron Maclay s
name is slaughtered by the N.S.W. press. If it
had been Papamichelapopos, it would have been
spelt all right.
Sir T. Brassey has
been made a Poer, and
Bass, Baron Burton I
XXX-traordinary!
Mr. E. B. Holt, now
a confinee in Parramatta
Gaol, was to have ap-
peared as a witness in the
Supreme Court case of
Proudfoot Vi Bank of
New Zealand, but the
Primary Judge refused
to grant the necessary
Order.
Mr. M. L. Pender,
known wherever sport-
ing Australians congre-
gate as “ Mick,” has just
died at St. Kilda, Mel-
bourne. He was an ac-
complished horseman, a
first-rate boxer, and a
plucky man, and In his
salad days, only a few
years ago, he was as hand-
some as a Norse god. He
lived a tempestuous life,
and so vale Mick Pender I
The evergreen
Shakespeare-Bacon con-
troversy, of which Syd-
neyites have had a slice
lately, is well to the front
in Melbourne, and shines
forth brightly during the
big gooseberry and aD-
normal egg season. Here
is the last that has been
said upon this threadbare
subject: “I cannot but
feel,” says an American
author, “ that Shakes-
peare’s work are the pro-
duct of several minds, if
one man composed them,
be had a vocabulary of
14,000 words. But Henry
Ward Beecher, with an
his richness, uses only
8000 words.” If this ar-
gument is accepted, it
will next be proved that
Shakespeare was a
woman.
Here is glory, if you
like, for a man who never
dreamt of it. There is a
paper published in Lon-
don, the name of which
is Public Opinion. This
paper gives extracts from
all the leading organs of
thought throughout the
world. In one of its late
issues it republishes the
whole of an article pre-
viously published in the
Imperial Review. The
magazine bearing this
modest name is entirely
written by one man—Mr.
Palmer, of the Melbourne
Herald. This gentleman
besides doing his dally
work-which, by the way,
he does well—is so much
of an enthusiast as to
write a whole magazine
by himself, and be a
Bombardier-General in
the Salvation Army be-
sides. The curious part
of the affair—in this con-
junction—is that the ar-
ticle tends to show that
teetotalism in the colonies
“produoes scarcely any
men of eminence, in the
very first rank, and is
severe upon the teeto-
tallerswho have figured
in the Yictorian Legisla-
ture.” However, N.S.W.
is not in the position to
throw stones. Many of
her acts of Parliament
have been passed by a
majority of assertive hic-
cups drowning a minor-
ity of dissentive grunts.
Sam Griffith, Premier of Queensland, has
been created a K.C.M.G. He now ranks about as
high as the American “ kurnel ” or “ Jedge,” and
a little higher than the Yankee who is simply ad-
dressed as " Boss.”
“ Mr. Salomons then oalled as witness Mr.
James Stephenson. Mr. Rogers: Do you give an
approver the title of ‘ Mr. ?’ ” Now, what argu-
ment can be possibly urged against giving an in-
former the title of “ Esq. ?”
Some of the papers sneer at the announce-
ment that “Major Barker, the Salvationist, has
been promoted to the rank of colonel.” Barker’s
rank is, at any rate, as real as that of the chieftains
of the Sydney Goat-murderers.
Mrs. M‘Millan, the Australian lady who is
so“ muoh admired in London, is the wife of Mr.
M’Millan, of the big soft-goods .firm [of M’Arthur
and Co., and a daughter of Mr. Graham, of the
Yictorian Customs Department.
Frank Weston has been refused his insol-
vency certificate. So that there’s at least one
thing “ Wizard Oil” won’t do. Frank should go
fora N.S.W. constituency so as to be near the
other uncertificated ones in the Assembly.
When Combes, C.M.G., gets baok to Aus-
tralia after his long and unbroken series of artistic
and social triumphs, he will find his seat
“ jumped,” Mr. Julian Ashton having been elected
to the presidentship of the N.S.W. Art Society.
During a reoent debate in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly a certain member drank 29
brandies-and-soda in the oourse of the night. As
he has several times been re-elected by his con-
stituents. he. no doubt, represent* them admirably
Mr. Richards, the attorney, who got to-
gether the Crown’s evidence in the N.S.W. railway
conspiracy cases, is “a terror” at such work. It
was he who so successfully acted for the Sydney
Evening News in the celebrated case of Hand-
saker and M’Elhone.
At London College of Musio two candi-
dates for the scholarship were exactly equal, and
the College authorities, instead of ordering another
exam., “ tossed up for it.” Sir W. J. Clarke, it is
alleged, has come forward and offered to pay for
the tuition of the loser.
The Pall Mall tries to make out that
Beaconsfleld died a Roman Catholic. O'Connell
once called him the “ lineal descendant of the im-
penitent thief.” The Tories need not be
frightened, however, for an English Catholic is a
greater Tory than even an English J ew.
Mrs. Campbell Praed—once Miss Murray
Prior—of Queensland—will shortly publish another
Australian novel. Its appearance is anticipated
with interest by those who have read the gifted
authoress’s audacious and somewhat giddy
Queensland story, “ Policy and Passion.”
Yet another of the Adelaide saints has
found his right level. Alderman Knipe, ex-Mayor
of Port Augusta, is now praising Heaven upon a
light diet of skilly and cold water. He has got six
years for robbing a building society. Poor Knipe
will be much missed in social purity circles.
“Will you please signal to me in the
gallery when Jawbone Neild begins to speak?’
asked a constituent of Gormley, M.L.A. “ Cer-
tainly, sir; certainly,” replied the frog-voiced
legislator. “ Well, what shall the signal be ?”
The New Samson and the Temple of the Peers.
“Mr. Gladstone, in closing an angry correspondence with the Duke of Westminster, said that he would abolish
the Peerage unless its members learnt to conduct themselves with wisdom and moderation English Paper.
asked the constituent. “ I’ll leave,” answered
Gormley, with muoh enthusiasm.
Theßourke (N.S.W.) Watchman reports
that by a series of well-planned and carefully-
executed drunks the staff has been reduced to an
editor and a devil. The former not being a
hydra-headed animal can only ask his readers
forbearance until he engages a few new assistants
who will not have an alcoholic birthday twice
every 48 hours.
Should murderer Bertrand be released, he
will owe his luck to the exertions so long made on
his behalf by certain powerful members of the
Hebrew community. “Bertrand,” by the way,
is an assumed name. Even while we write, this
long-prisoned and cold-blooded person may be on
the high seas, as the authorities have been allow-
ing him to grow a beard in anticipation of release.
A gentleman, bearing the name of Cow-
pasture, complains that he arrived in London from
Sydney with his daughter, aged 13 years, and
before they had been ashore a fortnight the
British revenue-officials were endeavouring to
collect income-tax from them. The colonist with
the grass-fed surname wants to know whether
Imperial Federation will introduce this same game
into Australia.
Lord Carington entertained at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, one afternoon last week, 9--
Anglican clergymen and 146 lay members of the
Diocesan Synod, with the ladies of their families,
16 Presbyterian clergymen, 12 Congregational
reverends, seven Wesleyan ditto—with in eaen
case the.ladies accompanying. What a treat his
Excellency must have had at the hands of these
escellent persons I
Arohibald Forbes, the war correspondent,
who has just married Miss Meigs, at Washington,
could not escape the penalty of being pictured in
the papers. The portraits issued by American
prints to hand make him look more like a brigand
than a bridegroom, and the letter-press which
follows it describes him as crouched and limpy
from rheumatism. The impression left is that
Miss Meigs has opened a military hospital.
While a group of “distinguished Aus-
tralians ” were being “ oarted round ” the picture-
gallery at Hatfield House, the Marquis of Salis-
bury's home, a Mr. William Wilson, of Melbourne,
indulged in a little gush over the portrait of Sir
William Cecil. Salisbury cut short this little
eulogy by remarking that Sir William might have
been a good statesman, but his taste in women
was indifferent, judging by the portrait of his
wife.
The King of the Belgians had a brief fly-
round in London last month. Anxiety was ex-
pressed; in some quarters lest his visit to the
great metropolitan mart was on “ business. The
merchandise in which his Majesty deals is mostly
human, and his London agent is the notorious
Mrs. Jeffries. Now that Sir Charles Dilke is tem-
porarily hors de combat, the amorous Leopold
ought to be able to pick up some good lines at
clearance-sale prices.
Ninian Melville, M.L.A., of N. S.W., plumes
himself on the fact that he addressed a public
meeting when he was only 17 years old. That is
good enough, but J. P. T. Caulfield, the “Boy
Politician,” once of Melbourne, now of Sydney,
completely overlaps that record. He started on
the stump when only 10 years old, and discussed
the political situation until there was no audience
left exoept a fat boy who had gone to sleep and
was snoring vigorously.
Mr. Piddington, M.L.C. of N.S.W., still
furiously objects to being cremated. The hon.
gentleman, it is stated, has already had his own
grave blasted out at a picturesque spot on the
Blue Mountains. But then everyone isn’t rich
enough to go by train after death to the Blue
Mountains. The only show a lot of people we
know will have of getting there is the off-chance
of being wafted on the winds to Mount Vittoria
after they evaporate from the government cre-
matorium of the future.
It is now rumoured that Prince Albert
Victor and that champion guinea-pig, the Duke of
Manchester, are coming instead of “Wales” to
open the one-horse show at Adelaide. Probably it
will be necessary in the end, however, to fall back
on an exiled French prince or on some disguised
nobleman from Kimberley. It is stated that the
son of a wealthy English peer is hunting for a
billet at Perth with very little success, and if he
is decently sober when the time comes he may
answer as a last resource. By the way, if Man-
chester leaves England again, what a timo Har-
tington will have 1
There is a wicked rumour flying round
that “the Vagabond” is to be offered a C.M.G.-
ship. Ever since Julian—assisted by Bishop Moor-
house-started “three cheers for Her Gracious
Majesty,” at the opening of the Exhibition, he has
been universally accepted as a distinguished
colonist. One London paper, says rumour again,
reoently referred to him as “Julian Vagabond,
Esq., the wealthy Australian squatter.” Anyhow,
the Vftg. is keeping himself en evidence in London,
and if he only plays his cards right, he ought to be
able to give journalism best and set up as a
colonial company-promoter.
Sir Henry Loch was the innocent cause of
a sad catastrophe at Adelaide. Among other mild
dissipations in honour of his visit, Governor Loch
attended a Hunt luncheon. Mr. Edwin Bagot at-
tended it too, and was introduced to the great
man. His Excellency and the luncheon combined
were too much for Mr. Bagot. That night he
mysteriously disappeared. Previously he had
b9en “ observed to stagger.” All of which goes
to prove our own private theory that no one
ought to rashly throw himself into the presence
of Governors unless he has just undergone an
elaborate course of physic. Governors are very
trying to weak constitutions.
The editor of the Gladstone (Q.) Observer
has sent a copy of his paper, printed on white silk,
to “ Wales,” as a testimony of personal esteem.
The paper, or rather silk, contains a history of the
town of Gladstone—a record full of thrilling
episodes regarding drainage and water-supply—
and H.R.H. will, of course, be graciously pleased
to—blow his nose in it on State occasions. If it
were only a little larger the Prince would probably
have it cut into a shirt, with the drainage article
carefully starched for the front, and the leader on
the drought and the Eastern question transposed
into a collar; while the social column about the
marriage of the local storekeeper’s daughter
would make an elegant tail; but, unfortunately,
the Observer is too flimsy to answer such a pur-
pose. The first time •* Wales" received an address,
the garment would split from Dan. to Beersheba.
Sheridan had a con-
venient formula for ac-
knowledging all the new
publications that were
sent to him: "Dear Sir:
I have received your ex-
quisite work, and I have
no doubt I shall be highly
delighted after I have
read ft.” He would even
have sent this to Mr. I.
Reginald Cohen, the
gifted Sydney novelist.
Apropos, it is maliciously
alleged that Mr. Cohen’s
latest scintillation,“ How
will it End ?” has been so
howling a success that
another brilliant author
is now engaged on a
three - volume story of
high life (in Alberto Ter-
race) entitled" How will
it Lend ?”
The Sydney D.T. de-
votes a leadiDg article to
the Crawford-Dilke case,
and wants particularly to
know "why people should
be shocked at an immoral
baronet any more than at
an immoral bagman.” It
also remarks that “the
human nature of the
baronet is essentially the
same as that of the bag-
man,” &c., and altogether
makes it rather disagree-
able for the man with the
samples. We draw atten-
tion to this matter that
the Commercial Travel-
lers’ Association may re-
monstrate with Editor
Ward for thus offensively
coupling the decent busi-
ness of drummer and the
odious profession o f
baronet.
Says an American
paper “ The marriage
of Patti, spinster, with
Nicolini, bachelor, is
doubtless to be accepted
as the condonation of a
long-continued and very
public exhibition of social
indecency. It would be
better, we think, to give
somewhat less of pub-
licity to what this pair
call marriage. The in-
quiry will naturally arise,
if they are married now
and were spinster and
bachelor prior to the cere-
mony, what were their
relations before ? It is a
curious fact, the willing-
ness of good society to
overlook social miscon-
duct on the part of men
and women who show
genius upon the stage. It
is not very creditable.”
The London corre-
spondent of United Ire-
land says that Henniker
Heaton would be a Whig,
Tory, Radical, or Parnel-
lite, but the Tories were
the first to snap up him
and his money - bags.
These, however, are not
the exact words used by
the paper named, which
doesn’t by any means put
the case so delicately.
Apropos, have the Irish
members forgotten the
fact that, a few years ago,
when Henniker first
settled down in Great
Britain and began to sniff
round for a seat, he
formed one of the retinue
of Mr. Parnell on a
memorable occasion, and
seemed by no means dis-
pleased when it was an-
nounced that he intended
contesting an Irish con-
stituency in the National-
ist interest ?
The London papers are cutting their little
jokes anent colonial “ honours.” Speaking of a
recent supper given to the “Colonies clique at
Drury Lane Theatre, the Referee says: An im-
pression appeared to prevail among some ot tne
guests that Gus. Harris (the lessee), will be created
a K C.M.G. at the earliest possible opportunity.
By the way. stage spreads are becoming popular-
ised over here. While Sir Henry Loch was in
Adelaide the triumvirate gave a sort of free-ana-
easy to viceroyalty at their shop. We believe a
certain manager intends to arrange a midmgnt
social at his theatre, when the ladies of the billet
will*be specially invited to meet “ Government
House.”
General Booth, of the Salvation Harmy, is
following the lead of our Gracious Queen by con-
ferring honours upon distinguished colonials.
Last week he was pleased to promote Major
Barker, of Melbourne, to the rank of " kernel.
It was done by cablegram, and duly gazetted in
the War Cry. Booth and Victoria Regina are m
one boat at the present time. Both are trembling
for their billets, and both are adopting a * equar-
ing ” policy. The West End riots and the sput m
the Harmy have affected them equally in tneir
respective spheres. When Kernel BarKer(*hois
believed to be sincere in his tomfoolery) eas
acquired a few more thousands for the Loara, ne
wili probably be invited home to kiss the General s
hand. Hallelujah I
A lively little lady is Mrs. Clarke Wells,
who has been lecturing on “Fallen Women at
Adelaide. Mrs. Wells is very anxious about these
poor stray[sheep—everybody is, doncherknow aria
she wants to get up a petition on to
Presumably the S.A. Government will be asked to


lend them a little temporary assistance while they
are becoming 1 good, or something of that sort.
But, whatever the petition is, Mrs. Wells wants it
signed by the gentlemen. She appeal to them at
her meetings. She pleads hard for her “poor,
dear, lost little pets.” She implores. She raves—
and finally Mrs. Wells tumbles off the platform
“ with a dull thud.” Even that doesn’t fetch the
hard hearted wretohes as it should do. When she
lies fiat on the ground and sobs, “ Oh, do help my
poor little pets,” the meeting merely says ‘ dry
up!” Mrs Wells has made a mistake in starting
her crusade in such a pious city as Adelaide. The
saints of that citv don’t want to reclaim fallen
women. They prefer them as at present.
Vanderbilt died of apoplexy, yet he rarely
ate meat, never took rich food or hot breads,
usually lived on farinaceous food and milk, was a
teetotaller, and a non-smoker. He was in no
sense! a high liver. From what the millionaire’s
doctor says, teetotalism and apoplexy go together.
Sample of polioe-oourt cross-examination
of the approver in the great N.S.W. railway con-
spiracy case:—Mr. Rogers (to witness); What are
you ?—An Irishman. What part of Ireland do you
come from ?—I don’t consider it necessary to
answer. Did you ever know a person named
Carey ?—I decline to answer.
The Australasian’s Sydney corres-
pondent, who is himself high up in the N.S.W.
Civil service, says:—“ We used to think the uood-
chap-Wh'tton regime in our Railway department
a very bad example of divided councils, but the
Richardson-Roberts administration of military
affairs is probably a sadder one, for it seems to
consist of a perpetual mining and countermining
between these officers, the time and energies of
one being largely consumed in defeating the pro-
fessional machinations of the other. When they
were respectively colonel and major, matters
were bad enough between them, but now that one
is a major-general and the other a lieutenant-
colonel, one a Companion of the Bath, fresh from
the Boudan, the other Companion of St. Michael
and St. George, and the fresher, perhaps, from not
having been at the Soudan, they have ‘strained
their relations ’ to pretty much the same con-
dition of mutual dislike and distrust as prevails at
this moment between the leader of the Govern-
ment and the leader of the Opposition.”
When Sir Charles Dilke took a “ farewell ”
of his constituents, in public meeting assembled,
Lady D. dutifully saw her husband through his
trouble. She appeared on the platform leaning
upon Charley’s arm. Since the second trial and
its incidental disclosures it is to be presumed that
the faithful wife slips her trusting arm round
Charley’s waist whenever they take their walks
abroad. When a woman has once made up her
mind to stick, she sticks. “I will never desert
Mioawber,” said the immortal mother of that
gentleman’s twins. And in a similar spirit of
devotion, Mark Pattison’s widow has determined
never to desert the morally dilapidated|Dilke. It
can hardly be that a bright, clever woman of the
world (twice married) remains so artless as to
swallow Charley’s version of the Mrs. Crawford-
cum-“ Fanny ” business. But in the presence of
the world she feigns to swallow it, and never
makes so much as a wry faoe. All honour to
Lady Dilke! If she chooses to undertake hubby’s
reformation and to love him all the better for his
past giddiness, who shall say her nay? Not we.
We are married ourselves.
Mr. H. Le Roy Lewis is at present illumin-
ating Melbourne with the light of his countenance.
One brief week ago we had never heard of Mr. Le
Roy Lewis, but that only shows our ignorance.
From the Melbourne Herald we glean that he is
“a visitor of distinction from England, who is also
a barrister, and very desirous of obtaining all pos-
sible information as to the colony and its resources
for future use in the British Parliament, which he
expects to enter before long.” It is paragraphs
like this which elevate the tone of Australian
iournalism. How delicately is the line drawn
which separates Mr. Le Roy Lewis from the every-
day globe-trotter I He is not merely a visitor of
distinction, but also a barrister—evidently a man
of all-round excellence and far-reaching capaoity.
The British Parliament must want Mr. Le Roy
Lewis badly, and we hope he will enter without
anv unnecessary delay. Gladstone Is getting old.
At any moment the English people may have to
look around for a new leader. Le Roy Lewis
should be on the spot—England wants him. He
can do much for England, but nothing for us. We
have borne long and patiently with distinguished
visitors,” genuine and spurious, all of whom have
expected to enter the British Parliament shortly.
But against a distinguished visitor, who is also a
barrister, we must indignantly protest.
At latest advices a baronetcy was to
conferred on Mr. M. Holloway, because his de-
ceased brother, Thomas, made a colossal fortune
out of quack-medicines, and built a sanatorium
and college in order to square his conscience.
Fancy being required to address a man as Sir
because his brother made pills! Sir James Cockle,
late of the Queensland Supreme Court Bench, son
of the other great pill-man, is a knight, but he got
his title not through medicine, but through law,
and nothing riles the old man-he is a most accom-
plished mathematician, by the way—than any
reference to boluses. Now we come to think
about the matter, we are strongly of opinion that
Holloway should have had a pill knighthood,
and that the ex-Chief Justice of Queens-
land should have got the pill baronetcy,
on mor© than one ground. Compared with
Cockle’s pills in point of efficacy, Holloway s
are a delusion and a snare, and deserving of only
the meanest titular distinction—say a C.M.G.-ship.
But there is a grand indictment to be preferred
against Holloway which cannot be overlooked in
the present paragraphic disquisition. It is that
while Cockle’s pills are all of one size,we have seen
pills taken out of boxes bearing a Holloway-like
label which varied in bulk from that of a swam-
dropdownto that of a grain of dust-shot. We
have much pleasure in conferring a baronetcy on
our truly and well-beloved Sir James Cockle,
knight.
Areporter,who once “ pulled a hand-press
on a country weekly, tells this story: One day,
while the paper was being worked off, a man
from the country came in and walked all around
the room, finally stopping near the press and
watching the work very earnestly. “Anything
I can do for you ? ” asked the man at the lever,
pausing between impressions. “No,” was the
reply, “ I don’t want nothin’. I just come to see
you edit."
The Queanbeyan (N.8.W.) Agb reports
another death in the Melbourne Hospital.
"A cabman, Henry Richards, who was admitted
with a broken leg, having contracted the disease,
died on Tuesday.” We gather from this that an
epidemic of broken leg has appeared in the insti-
tution, and that the cabman died of it; or else
Henry Richards contracted his leg, and the dis-
ease died; or possibly it may mean that the Jehu
himself became contracted through his leg pass-
ing away. At all events, there appears to have
been a funeral at Melbourne Hospital.
Paris Figaro says that King Ludwig of
Bavaria succumbed to “ Wagner-morbuß, a cere-
bral derangement, a rapid and invasive malady,
the progress of which can no longer be dissimu-
lated.” Its effects are declared to be “ disastrous
in th© extreme,” for its victims are “ insensible to
the joys of paternity, to society, to the spriDg, to a
good dinner, to a fine picture, or an interesting
book; they gradually succumb to the Wagnerian
virus, until their blood is perfectly exhausted and
their heart has withered away.” The man who
likes squalling babies and dislikes a good dinner
must indeed be mad. Personally, however, we
are disinclined to accept Figaro’s explanation of
the suicide of Bavaria's champion crank. It is
now admitted that Louis was to have received a
“large and influential deputation” the day after his
death. Our opinion, therefore,is that he suspected
Henniker Heaton and a few other Australian
colonists were to form part of this gang, and that
when it came to a matter of either listening to
Henniker’s eternal yaup or takiog his chance of
hereafter, he very wisely chose the least of the
two evils, and stepped out towards that lone dark
land which, as yet, is not made terrible by the pres-
eoce of professional representatvie Australians.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Newton and Lees’ postponed benefit oame
off on Saturday evening at Foley’s Hall, Sydney,
when a first-rate night’s sport was put on the
boards to a big attendance. The event of the show
was looked for in the meeting of Newton and
Lees, and they made a much better spar than on
their first appearance before a Sydney audience.
We liked Newton the better of the two, and we
have an idea that in a best and best “ go” Lees
could not live with the little ’un, who is undoubt-
edly an artist. Lees’ position is bad, as by his
crouohing and bent knees he throws away the
length and reach with which nature has endowed
him. Black Parry, the best man who ever trod
Australian soil, used to crouch when sparring, but
when he hit he sprang with the blow, and great
was the fall thereof. One would suppose Lees, by
the reduction of his height, would keep his body
out of danger, but it is not so, as he only bends at
the knee, and his “ mark” Is about the closest and
most open portion of his anatomy to his opponent,
and, by the way, he would appear to think so
himself, as he jealously guards that vital
spot with his right hand. When the champion
amateur appears the audience always look for
something out of the common, and they were not
disappointed on Saturday night when he faced the
Victorian boxer, Molloy. There would not be
anything out of the common in Mr. Beale besting
Molloy, as the latter is far removed from the first
flight, but it is his manner of doing it which takes
with the onlooker. Molloy has an above-the-
average quick left hand, but he might as well have
led at a sunbeam as at the amateur, who returned
five or six blows with both hands, varying his
attentions between the “ victualling department ”
and the “ dial,” until poor Molloy did not know
whether he was on his head or his heels from the
frequency of his visitations, but not from the
force of them, as the amateur was only having a
friendly set-to. Some good sparring was shown by
the lesser lights, and single-stick play was indulged
in by Foley, Cansdell,! and others, but a Sydney
audiences have not acquired a taste or been edu-
cated to the game, and they much prefer the
“ legitimate ” business.
* * *
Next Saturday night “ Professor” Jack-
who is matched against Lees, takes a benefit at
AN AUSTRALIAN “CHILD” OF SEVENTEEN.
“The Mayor and Mayoress (Miss Young) intend giving a juvenile ball for children
between thirteen and seventeen years of age, at Sydney Town-hall, in about a fort-
night,”
Foley’s Hall. M'Carthy and Smith, who fought
such a slashing encounter the other afternoon,
graduated from Jaokson’s Academy, and he has a
host of “ talent” who are sure to show up for his
benefit. Steve O’Donnell and Dan Hickey ought
to make a tip-top set-to, and four rounds between
them would be well worth seeing.
o * *
The return match between N.S.W. and
Queensland footballers, under Kugby rules, came
off on the Association Ground, Sydney, on Satur-
day last, and the bad judgment, if notfavouritism,
in the selection of the first and defeated N.S.W.
team, could not have shown better than by the
fact that in their second trying the N.S.W. selec-
tion committee got together a team which de-
feated the Queenslanders by 38 pointß to 5 point l ?.
On what lines the selection is made we cannot
understand. In the last team Burwood was not
represented, and still we don’t mind wagering a
bottle of gingerbeer that the Suburban Club beats
Wallaroo at the next time of askiDg. Why is this
thus ?
* * *
For right down brutal sport commend us
to a dog-fight, Graeco-Roman wrestling, and last,
but by no means least, a game of Rugby football.
In the Intercolonial match on Saturday, one of the
Queensland team was carried off the field with a
broken collar-bone, and another with his head
open. We presume that the authorities put their
foot on prize-fighting on account of its alleged
brutalising tendency. If such is the case, then
why allow Rugby football as a lawful game ? In a
prize-fight a bloody-nose and a black-eye are
usually the worst injuries. If a man is thrown
during a fight, he has but one man to fall on him.
In Rugby football it is “sacks-en-the-mill,” and
God help the undermost, who is lucky if he
escapes with a broken collar-bone. We don’t
object to the young ’uns maiming themselves if it
pleases them, but it seems a farce for the law to
make fish of one and fowl of the other, on the
score of brutality, as there have been far more
permanent injuries between the goal-posts than
between the posts of a prize-ring.
* * *
At the annual games of the Manhattan
Athletic Club, New York, some fine performances
were put in by the amateurs in their record-
breaking efforts. Wendell Baker, the champion
sprinter of Harvard College, y/ho at his favourite
distances may be looked upon as the successor to
D. E. Myers, the ex-champion amateur, covered
135yds. in the stated time of 13 3-sseo., and A. A.
Jordon ran 130yds. over hurdles in 16 l-ssec., which
beats the former American record by three-fifths
of a second.
* * *
Another identity of the palmy days of
“ the ring ” passed away in London on June 8 in
the person of Harry Brunton. Tom Sayers pos-
sessed no firmer friend than the deceased, who
acted as his second in some of his principal battles.
His fighting weight was 9st. 41b., and he appeared
thrice in the ring as a principal, defeating Hussey
In 1849 and Duffln in 1850, and suffering defeat at
the hands of Bill Cain during the latter year.
Edward Hanlan, although only ex-oham-
pion in bona-fide rowing circles, still takes the
cake in hippodrome business. On June 4 and 5
Edward brought off a regatta on Toronto Bay
with great success. Hanlan won the single sculls
with ridiculous ease from Conly, Hamm, Lee.
Plaisted, Hosmer, M’Kay, Ritz, and Staunton; and
Hanlan and Lee won the double soulls.
* * *
In America, Frank Herald is the latest
aspirant for championship honours in the pugi-
listic line. Mike Conley, known as the “ Ithica
Giant,” standing 6ft. lin., and weighing 14st. 91b.,
was matched, some time since, against an “ un-
known,” and the glove contest camo off in New
York on June 31. The “ unknown ” turned up
in Herald, who had never put up his hands in
New York, and the match was looked upon as a
foregone conclusion for Conley, who had for some
time had a challenge out to box any man bar
Sullivan. On the men facing each other, Herald
led with his left straight as a line on Conley’s
mark, and, to quote a Yankee scribe, “ the Nice-
town crasher’s ponderous fist fairly dented the
giant’s victualling department.” Conley coun-
tered, but missed, and Herald landed another
crasher on to his opponent’s right eye, and, to
again quote, “Conley joined the early closing
association.” Conley then tried in-fighting, but
Herald bested him at the game and landed a
terriflo right-handed upper-cut on the;point of
the jaw, when the giant camo down with a crash,
and when the 10 seoonds neoessary for Herald to
win the fight were ticked off Conley was still in his
balmy slumber. Herald’s backers at latest were
trying to get on a match with John L. Sullivan or
any man in the world for £5OO a side.
* * *
We see by the latest American flies that
on June 13, at Lake Calumet, Pullman, 111., Jacob
Gaudaur defeated Teemer, the American cham-
pion, which no doubt accounts for the matching
of Gaudaur against Beach. Teemer was never in
it with Gaudaur, and gave up before he completed
the course, but he does not appear to have been
himself, as he “ was ill ” at intervals for several
hours during the afternoon of the day on whioh
he rowed, a trouble which was thought to be due
to the combined effects of exposure to the heat
of the sun in the forenoon and overtraining.
Gaudaur’s backers must have been in great fig
over his victory, however, to have jumped at
such big game as Beach. Of Gaudaur, an American
paper says:—“ Gaudaur’s victory over Teemer
proves him beyond, all contradiction, to be
a first-class oarsman. He was not pushed in
any part of the race, and yet when Teemer gave
up, he rowed the course, three miles with a turn,
in 20min. 20sec. If Teemer had not broken down,
or his right arm became useless, owing to an over-
strain, and he had pressed Gaudaur, the fastest
time on record would have been beaten, and
Gaudaur would have rowed the race in 19min.
37sec., the time he made in a trial two days before
the race. Time is no criterion of oarsmanship, we
are aware, but it must be acknowledged when a
man rows a trial on a lake in 19min. 27sec„ he can
repeat the performance within 10 seconds on a
calm day. Beach may be a wonder in a shell, and
able to beat anybody in his own climate and on his
own water, but it is doubtful whether he could on
the 12 ch June, have beaten Gaudaur on Lake
Calumet.” Gaudaur is described as a fine, power-
ful sculler, weighing 13 stone, and taking into con-
sideration the loss of prestige caused by the con-
tinued defeats of the colonial scullers now in
England, we shall not be surprised if Gaudaur
starts favourite for his race with Beach.
* * *
To come nearer home, and to smaller lights
in the aquatic world. Young Matthews made a
one-horse show of his match with Gascoigne, rowed
over the Parramatta champion course, in wager
boats, on Saturday last. Gascoigne, as was ex-
pected, went away with the lead, but before a mile
had Ibeen covered Matthews took command, and
henceforth held Gascoigne at his mercy. The
winner rowed the boat Matterson pulled against
Beach, which, it may be Imagined, is a deal too big
for such a mite in the rowing world. Though not
yet 18 years of age, standing sft. and 4in., and only
weighing Bst. 91b„ the young tiger has defeated
Freeman twice, Dunn, Croad, Swift, Nicholls, and
Gasooigne. in addition to winning a race at Pyr*
mont and Yipond’s trophy. The youngster is as
good as they make ’em at the size, but it is to be
hoped his friends will not let him overdo it. He
now requires a lengthened spell,
* & 4e
The Brisbane Courier has been holding
forth, in a lachrymose strain, on the present con-
dition of the Australian turf. "Everything,”
says the Courier, "is sacrificed to qualities that
are essentially artificial. The horses are trained
too young. Speed over a short course being the
one thing needful, spindle-shanked animals are
the order of the day.” Racing Jeremiahs have
been raising these lamentations for the last 50
years, and meanwhile the quality of thoroughbred
horses has steadily improved. That many of these
are trained too young is, unfortunately, true
enough; but on the other hand, it must be remem-
bered that two-year-olds of the present day are
very different cattle to the youngsters of 40 years
back. Thanks to the development of breeding art,
they are altogether bigger-boned and better fur-
nished than their ancestors at the same age. Such
a horse as was Philip Augustus last season would
have been considered a phenomenon by our grand-
fathers. Granting, however, that there are
evils attached to two-year-old racing, yet its
bitterest opponents (provided they know their
subject) are forced to admit that blood-
stock, on the whole, has in no way deterio-
rated since the system was popularised. But where
the Courier chiefly twaddles is in representing
speed over a short course as an essentially artifi-
cial quality. Time was when that theory found
favour, but it exploded under the test of practical
experience. The old school of English steeple-
chase horses (mostly half-bred) were reverenced
as marvels of endurance and “ staying ” power.
They went as fast at the end of a four mile
journey across country as they did at the begin-
ning. Their admirers complacently compared
them with the " weeds ” that couldn’t gallop a
yard more than six furlongs on the flat. They
never took into consideration the miserable pace
at which the sturdy, heavy-limbed chasers
" stayed ” four miles. At length a bookmaker
named Hughes conceived the idea of putting a
pretty nigh worthless sprinter to the jumping
business, and it was speedily found that many a
horse which could only last for six furlongs in
good company on the flat could " stay for a month
beside the oross-country veterans. "Staying
power” is simply a relative term. The horse
which drops back beaten before the end of a
mile race at Randwick may gallop his op-
ponents to a standstill at two miles in some
minor up-country handicap. We have seen and
heard a broken-winded horse canter in for a two-
mile race in England, because the rest of the field
were not speedy enough to distress him, and it may
be confidently assumed that the non-stayers of the
present generation could do four miles in quicker
time than the much-vaunted stayers of the past.
Thus much has been accomplished by an ever-
improving system of breeding and training. But
when the Courier goes on to d eplore the “ low
weights for jockeys ” (it means horses) an element
of common sense is introduced into the article.
Undoubtedly it would be more satisfactory to
owners and public alike if the scale were raised.
Under the present system a bad handicap horse
carries stones less than weight-for-age, so called.
Again and again an owner sees a race thrown away
by the incompetency of the juvenile pigmy he is
compelled to put upon his horse’s back. At present,
unhappily, there seems no prospect of any change.
Only last week the Y.R.C. rejected the proposal
of Mr. George Davis that the minimum weight to
be carried by any horse in any handicap flat race
be 6st. 71b. It was argued that our minimum is
6st., and that “federation” in sport is desirable.
If the A. J.C. can arrange for handicap federation
on a higher scale, it will confer a real benefit upon
the Australian turf and Australian manhood,
Light-weight jockeys are specially reared now-a-
days, and the increase and multiplication of their
kind must eventually lower the physique of a
nation, though in ever so infinitesimal a degree.
When a 7-stone man gets married, it is our firm
belief that old father Adam (now in Heaven) weeps
bitterly.
* * *
Mr. Thomas Stevens, who undertook to go
round the world on a bicycle, has been turned
back in Afghanistan. He was conducted to the
frontier, and when he asked what the Asiatic
deuce theyjmeant, he only got the answer; " There
is but one God, and Mahomet is his prophet.”
* * *
Bendigo, the winner of the £lO,OOO Bolipse
Stakes, has proved a little gold-mine to his owner,
Mr. H. T. Barclay. In previous years Bendigo has
landed the Lineoln Handicap, and Cambridgeshire,
besides many races of minor importance, The
victory would be a thoroughly popular one, for
Mr. Barclay bears quite as good a reputation as his
horse on the English turf.
* * *
Jack Dempsey, we read, “ positively denies
that he ever issued a challenge to fight either
Mitchell, Burke, or M’Caffrey. He wishes it un*
derstood that he has retired from the prize-ring*
and will go to work at his trade, that of a cooper*
or else embark in some other legitimate trade.
He says, as IODg as he can get a day’s work he will
not fight again.” Dempsey has an unbeaten
record of 43 battles, and is probably the best man
of his weight who ever entered a ring.
v * *
Victorian football circles are protesting
against the win, tie, or kill tactics of their cham-
pion twenty, the South Melbourne. The tiger in
his native jungle is a gentle unassuming animal
compared with a “ Sowth” warrior when the tide
of fortune is setting in against his si-i-de. He has
several modes of “ putting away” his opponent,
has the “ Sowth” man. Sometimes with his head,
frequently with his fists, and usually with bis feet.
If all else fails he commences to curse and to
swear, and the effect is instantaneous. Foot-
ballers, as a rule, don’t make any bones of an oath
or two, but the curse of a “ Sowth” Melbourne
man possesses virtues peculiarly its own. It
paralyses the unlucky recipient, and the ball drops
from his nerveless hands. The supporters of this
" champion” club are well worthy of their repre-
sentatives. Up to present date the “ Sowth”
has lost no matches this season, but in the
confident expectation of blood being shed if
these redoubtable rowdies do get worsted, the
more civilised of the football patronising public
are agitating for " something to be done.” There
must be limits fixed to .blackguardism—even in
football matches.
* * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent
writes thus of Beach’s music-hall starring:—“ I
went to the Royal Music Hall the other night to
see this most unsportsman-like exhibition. Beach
was led on the stage by the acting-manager, who
proceeded to read a list of the champion’s
triumphs. Then Beach was left alone for a few
moments, and, hitching his shoulders awkwardly,
and rubbing his hands down the sides of his coat,
he thanked the audience for their kind applause,
said he meant to beat Hanlan again, that the best
man would win, and that he knew he should get
English fair play on the Thames. During this
stumbling effort at speech-making he emphasized
the fact that be was born in England, which I
thought rather ungrateful to the country that
reared and has done so much for him. Then
Deeble was brought on and introduced as Beach’s
backer, and Deeble bowed, and Beach bowed, and
then they shambled off, and I came away feeling
decidedly disgusted. However, I mean to baok
Beach for my little pot. Hanlan, who f-? is
still considered invincible here, will be heavily
backed, and I should not be surprised if the odds
are on him, so I look forward to winning a trifle.”
Marie Brizardl
Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.


ROYAL
T
HBA T R B
Williamson, s}arn3b and M jsoroy*, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. W. Seagrave.
The grand Spectacular Grama,
fey arrangement with M’MAHON and LBITCH,
THE PEARL DIVERS.
THE PEARL DIVERS.
Adapted and arranged for representation by
MR GEORGE LEITCH,
who will make hia appearance on this occasion, to-
gether with a powerful cast of the members of
the ROYAL. DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS CTHIFRSD AY)~EVENING, AUGUST 5,
will be acted
THE PEARL DIVERS.
Prices as usual: 5i., 3a., It.
Tickets for all parts of the Inuse at
Hotel. Box plan open at Theatre daily, from 10
4o 5. Telephone No. 114.
E W
OPERA
HOUSE.
N
Lessees ... Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the management of
, Messrs. Williamson, earner, and Musgrove.
THE
CANDIDATE.
THIS (THURBDAY) EVENING, AUGUSTS,
Mr. HARRY SAINT MAUR.
and the
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY,
in the brilliant Criterion Comedy,
THE CANDIDATE,
written by Justin M‘Carthy, M.P.
The entire action of the play takes plsct in a
morning room at OLDACRE HALL,
ithe Scene painted by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Every Evening Until Farther Notice.
Assistant Stage Manager—Mr. Patterson.
Business Manager for W,, G , and M—Mr. W.
Hughes.
Royal standard theatre,
Casilekeagh-street,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streetß.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith... Mr, J Grant.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
a drama (in 6 tableaux), written expressly for Mr.
Dampier by Thomas Somers. Ef q , and entit'ed
VOICES OF THE NIGHT
VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
Charles Moonee Ponds, Esq. (a new
ohum awaitiEg remittances) Mr. DAMPIER.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Musio Warehouse.
Day Tickets at Cole’s Book Arcide.
PRINCESS THEATRE
(late Olympic), York-street.
Lessee and Proprietor Charles Hugo.
SIXTH
WEEK WEEK
of
HUGO’S BUFFALO MINSTRELS
a r d
CIRCLE OF ACCOMPLISHED LADIES,
35 Unrivalled Artists. 35
Entire Change of Programme Weekly.
LONUON
LONDON
PRICES.
PRICES
Orchestra Stalls, 23.
Orchestra stalls, 2s.
Centre Chairs, Is.
Centre Chairs, Is.
Gallery, 63. Gallery, 6d.
Bpecial Note. —These Prlc?s were originally in-
troduced by Mr. Hugo into Australia.
HAROLD ASHTON, Business Manager.
F
ARLEY'S ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
NEW MA 8 ONI C HALL,
Castlereagh-street.
OPENING NIGHT,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7th.
“LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.”
MARQUIS DE CORNEVILLE ... Mr. FARLEY.
Gaspard, the miser (specially en-
gaged) Mr. J. L. Hall
Grenicheux, a fisherman (his first
appearance) W. Walshe
Germaine (her first appearance)
MiS3 Fioreccs Seymour
Serpolette (from London, her first
appearance) Mias Kate Lovell
Specially-selected Chorus, full and efficient
Orchestra.
CONDUCTOR .. .. MONS. LEON CARON.
Noth.—Mr. Farley has th@ honour to announce
that he will make his re-appearance iD Sydney,
after his tour through India, China, and Japan, at
the above hall, which he has altered and adapted
to the production of Operas in their entirety. The
auditorium has been re-arranged to enhance the
comfort of patrons.
Prices, 53., 3'.. 2j., aud lu Plan of reserved
seats at A. Huenerbein and Corbett's.
Doors open at 7 30 p.m ; overture at 8 precisely.
Carratages may be ordered for 11 p.m.
FRANK STUART,
Business Manager.
0 A D 1 M Y 0 T MUSIC.
Proprietor and Manager.. F. E. Hiscocks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
725 NIGHTS 725.
A SUCCESS UNPRECEDENTED.
AS PREDICTED SO HAVE WK REALISED.
And We now stand unrivalled in the world as the
one and greatest company.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION,
in conjunction with the
RAYNOR BROTHERS, the
WORLD-RENOWNED ECCENTRIC COMEDIANS
and MUSICAL ARTISTES.
Received last Night by another vast and mighty
audierce.
THE ENTIRE PRESS UNANIMOUS IN THEIR
PRAISE.
Admission as usual Orchestra chairs, 4s; stalls,
3j; parquette, 2s; balcany, Is. Cloak-room, polite
ushers.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS.
The Great and Popular
MATTHEW TROUPE.
TRIUMPHANT APPLAUS E.
THE BLONDIN DONKEY,
not equalled in the Universe.
Our Circle of LADY and GENTLEMEN ENTER-
TAINERS will also
APPEAR THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices; Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, 6d.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirltuel,
at 7 30 o’clook.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
LAST NIGHTS.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
The Original WIDOW O BRIEN.
In the Famous MUSICAL COMEDY,
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
ALA. ALA, THE HUMAN ROCKET.
Representative for Mr. John F Sheridan,
H. J S AMU ELL.
L
YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Stroud—Thursdav, August 5
Clarence Town-Friday, August 6
Dungog—Saturday and Monday, August 7 and 9
Paterson—Tuesday, August 10
Raymond Terrace—Wednesday, August 11.
Maitland and Newcastle to follow.
Admission—4s., 3s. and 2 1. D aors open a 17.33,
Overture at 8.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ad >
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
CITY HALL
(LATE THEATRE ROYAL).
MR. H. N. ABBO IT
Having Leased the above Building for a term of
years, has at great cost Remodelled, Redecor-
ated, and Transformed the entire
Auditorium into
A MAGNIFICENT HALL,
Capable of Accommodating 2000 Persons,
And oan jowb? engaged for
BALLS, CONCERTS, BAZAARS, AND ALL
ENTERTAINMENTS.
THE HALL CONTAINS A FLOOR FOR
DANCING, 70 x 60 FEE r.
For Hire, apply
H. N. ABBOTT,
Opera House,
Auckland.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely-
furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
Mr. Jas. MacMahon (MacMahon and Leitcli)
says:—“The Hall is admirably appointed; is a
model of neatness and cleanliness, and we have
experienced less trouble in staging our plays
(‘Silver King,’ ‘Lights e’London,’&c.) than in
any other place since we left Brisbane.”
For terms —Apply,
THE SECRETARY,
School of Arts.
MISSES
JORAN,
MOST ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
By a Fashionable and Crowded Audience of the
Three Marvellous Sisters,
LULA, PAULINE, and JSLIaE,
who will give their
SECOND GRAND CONCERT,
in the Y. M. 0. A Hall.
(THURSDAY) AUGUST 5.
Chairs 53. Gallery 2s. 61. Plan at Nicholson’s.
R S. SiIYTHE.
rjIHOUGHT READING,
(Btuart Cumberland's Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUrTERED THOUGHTS.
Western Tour.—Return Visit.
Mudgee, Thursday and Friday. s:h, 6th August.
Sunny Corner, Saturday and Monday, 7th, 9th.
Blayney, 11th. Orange &c., to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
MIBS ANNSTTA SC ASI open to Engagements
on 16th.
Address letters, care of Mr. Frank Smith,
Alhambra, or 268 Elizibeth-slreet.
First annual cavalry tournament
and MILITARY SPORTS,
to be h..ld at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY'S GROUNDS,
Moore Park,
On SATURDAY, AUGUST 14th,
Under the distinguished patronage and presence
of the
Right Hon. BARON CARRINGTON, P.C..G C M G.
Commander-in-Chief, and Hon. Colonel
Cavalry Forces,
And by special permission of Major-General
Richardson, C B.
17 EVENTS,
Including Cavalry Jumping, liltiDg at the Ring,
Tent-pegging, Slicing Lemons, Mounted and Dis-
mounted Cimbats, Sword and Lance Exercises,
Musical Ride,&?., Artillery Gun Comoetiiion and
Wheel Races, Infantry Bayonet C impetition,
Naval Cutlass Exercises, Fot, Racing, &c.
Admission to Grounds ONE SHILLING; Grand
Stand, 2s. 6d. Horsemen and vehicles at usual rates
F< r tickets and general information, app'y at
the Cavalry oiHoes, 8 B'.igh-st. eot.
W
MASONIC.
LODGE SYDNEY TARBOLTON 377, S.C.,
ILL bold their Third Annual
Grand Hasmic Ball,
under the distinguished patronage of
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
HIS WORSHIP THE MAYOR OF SYDNEY,
The District Grand Masters and Lodges of the
English and Scotch Constitution,
On the 11 h AUGUST, 1886,
in the
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Tickets—Double, 253.: Gent's, 153.; Lady's, 12 j. 6d.
—may be obtained from Messrs, J. M Ellercimp,
Hunter-street; W. Bullard, George street; Paling,
George street; Goulston, Market-street; G orge
Thomas, Pitt-street; and R Moody, Haymarket.
H. MURROW, Hon. Sec.
M.RI L E Y
* (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
R
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
_A*lO,OOO. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
-3W SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to he divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO ; Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. • All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“BAßß,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
w
Horatio Gilbert Parker
(OF CANADA),
THE EMINENT POET, LITTER and
SHAKESPEAREAN RECITER,
rLL give a series of popular Friday Even-
ing
RECITALS AND LECTURES,
in the elegant Hall of the Y.M.C.A.,
corner Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney,
beginning
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 13,
and for three succeeding Friday evenings,
ts follows
Friday Evening, August 13,
DICKENS’ CHRISTMAS CAROL.
Friday Evening, August 20,
JULIU3 OE3AR.
Friday Evening, August 27,
LECTURE : HUMOURISTS OF AMERICA.
Friday Evening, September 3,
OTHELLO or HAMLET.
Box plan and tickets at Pa ing’e, Gcorge-street.
Reserved Seat Tickets for the course, 10j.
Single Tickets, 3i and 2s.
FOUY’B SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
THEATRE ROYAL,
RoeiCIIAMPTON.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, -6300.003. Reserve Fund, £155,000,
Directors 1
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Mas auer : i Secretary.:
F. A. A. Wilson. Hector Allen.
Branches : Hayraarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s,' Newcastle,
and. Brisbane.
London Branch: 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
T
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
BYDNEY BRANCHES:
84 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORG E-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION
FLOUR MILLS,
KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds
Flour, Wheat Meal, Cones,
Bran and Pollard, always on
hand. All made from the
very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
ALL THE MOST
and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
5 SYDNEY.*
BFBGIALL7 IMPORTED FOB CITY OR COUNTRY USI,
TBS OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY.
A.l
LOWEST PRICES.
MMKMB EE
27 YORK; STREET,
SYDNEY.
m~ BVSRY YBHICLB GCAIUNTEBjp


SOCIALS
Mayor Young requests the ladies and gen-
tlemen who attended the late jubilee ball to send
in their photos, that he may make up albums for
presentation to the Queen, Lord CaringtoD, and
others. We are instructed to intimate that when
getting the portraits taken it is advisable for the
patients to wear a large jubilee smile and the
insignia of the Primrose League in order to show
Her Majesty that the colonials are a loyal and
contented race.
* * *
We understand that a lawsuit is likely to
come out of that little scene at the Joran concert.
R.S.S. says he holds the winning cards, and we
are quite prepared to believe him; but, all the
same, the lady may have an aoe up her sleeve.
They always have, and it’s called “ the last word.”
* * *
On Saturday afternoon, the 3l.st ult., the
marriage of Miss Marion Josephson, eldest
daughter of Judge Josephson, of St. Killians,
Rose Bar, Bydney, to Lieutenant J. Clarke, R.N.,
of H.M.S. Miranda, took place at All Saints'
Church, Woollahra, when a large number of
fashionable guests and spectators assembled.
Punctually at 2 o’clock the bridegroom, accom-
panied by his best man, Lieutenant Tufnell, R.A.,
of H.M.S. Miranda, took his plaoe at the altar-rails,
and a few minutes after, the bride, escorted by her
father, entered the churoh, and the ceremony was
performed by the Rev. Wallace Mort. The bride
was very handsomely dressed in the richest ivory
satin, the front of the skirt and corsage being
covered with valuable lace, and sprays of orange
blossoms were arranged about the skirt; the hair
was ornamented with a small wreath of the bridal
flowers over which fell a long tulle veil. Five
bridesmaids were in attendance, the two first being
dressed in cream-coloured cashmere, with trim-
mings of the same coloured fris<s cloth, large
sailor hats turned up at the back with a large
bow; they also carried large wreaths of flowers,
with hanging cream ribbons on which were printed
“ H.M.S. Miranda” in gold letters. The three other
bridesmaids wore costumes of the same style.
After the ceremony the party drove to St. Kil-
lians, where the wedding breakfast was prepared,
after which the bride and bridegroom took their
departure, going by train to Mount Victoria, where
the honeymoon is to be spent. Mrs. Clarke's
travelling dress was very pretty, and consisted of
dark brown cloth profusely trimmed with fur—hat
and parasol en suite. The presents were very
numerous and valuable.
m v *
Sir W. J. Clarke, Baronet, returns to
Melbourne In October, bringing his new degree of
D.C.L. (Cam.) with him. Beyond the acquisition
of this well-deserved academical distinetion, Wil-
liam’s pilgrimage home has been somewhat un-
fruitful. In the blessed hope of a resur-dook-
dom, the worthy Crce3us planked down £lOO for
the roval box at the Exhibition opening show.
His effusive loyalty fell fiat. It is said, by the
way, that William was altogether taken in over
this speculation. His idea in hiring the royal box
was that her Gracious Majesty would share it with
him. They were to go “ whacks ”in the throne,
and he would hold the sceptre when Victoria
wanted to scratch her head, or use the royal hand-
kerchief. Yes, that Exhibition venture was a
disappointing affair. Lady Clarke, too. has had
her trials and tribulations. Miss Ethel C. was ex-
pected to get the refusal of a choice assortment of
coronets, but the British aristocracy has been
backward in coming forward. Perhaps, after all,
Tyleoote, the cricketer, will have to be the happy
man. When Ivo Bligh came over to marry a fair
p roteg&e of the Clarkes, Mr. Tylecote accompanied
him with the laudable ambition of marrying into
the family. Somehow, he went back again,
empty-handed and cold-shouldered. As an emer-
gency man Mr. 'J'. may now find his services ac-
ceptable. Melbourne ladies are discussing the
question in its varied aspects.
* * *
On Tuesday evening, the 27th ult., Mrs.
Henry C. White, of Calingra, Ocean-street, Wool-
lahra, gave a most successful dance. The ball-
room was ingeniously draped with artistic flags.
The verandah was also enclosed and deoorated,
and seats were arranged about for the pleasure of
the guests, who numbered over 100.
* * *
Mr. Angus Maokay, the late editor of the
Sydney Town and Country Journal, his suc-
cessor, Mr. Gordon Stronach, and a number of
other gentlemen, were entertained by Mr. Alfred
Bennett at Clairvaux on Saturday last. A very
enjoyable evening followed an exceedingly
recherchi spread.
* * *
The marriage of the Hon. W. Boyle,
second son of Lord Cork, and Miss Edith Horsfall,
eldest daughter of John Horsfall, Esq., of Golds-
borough and Co., is announced to take place next
November.
* * *
Many a young heart in Albury beat fast
on Thursday evening last in anticipation of the
ball which was to take place that night. For was
it not a recherche, tiptop, ding-dong affair ? Several
of the leading ladies of the Federal City had
decided to give a plain and fancy dress ball,
almost at a moment's notice, and Sydney and
Melbourne were consequently placed under con-
tribution for a supply of fancy dresses. Miss
Prendergaßt, a young lady from Melbourne, as
“Daughter of the Regiment,” was simply perfect
in dress, figure, and style; Miss Hayes as “ Diana,”
Miss Minnie Moore as " Mary Queen of Scots,”
little Miss Fowler (Melbourne) as “Btar!igbt,”
Mies Esther Moore as “Folly,” and Miss Shaw
(Sydney) as “80-peep,” were also deserving of
special mention.
» * *
A lawn-tenuis match at Yass on 21st ult.—
Yass v. Wagga Yass won. The guests were
entertained at night by the wife of the inspector-
of-schoolB, Mr. L. E. Lawford.
* *
Dr. J. Elliott (of Messrs. Elliott Brothers,
Sydney), was regaled with a banquet by the phar-
macists at the German Club, on Thursday night
last. Among the visitors was Mr. Shiilinglaw, of
Victoria, who had come overj.to see how they roll
em up in N.S.W. All the incentives to convi-
viality were present at this little banquet, and the
guests oonvived accordingly until just before
midnight.
* * m
The annual ball of the Balmain Rowing
Club ball was an all-round success. The pro-
grammes were exceedingly pretty with a view of
the B.R.C. sheds engraved on the cover. The club
deserve kudos for the happy result of their efforts
* * *
The second of;the series of Smoke concerts,
under the auspioes of the Sydney L.V. Association,
was successfully achieved on Friday last. We
tried to get an officer of this journal to attend, but
the Y.M.c.A. offered greater attractions, and he
went there instead.
* * *
So poor old Liszt, the telegrams say, is
dead 1 Perhaps no man received more worship in
his fife than he did. His end must have been very
satisfactory to himself, barring the fact that it
came at all, as he was receiving ovations from all
the great ”in the world in literature, science,
art, and the king business. But too much
praise and homage has killed him in the end. We
hope R. B. amith will be careful; we cannot spare
him yet.
* * v
Another “old man” feed, this time at the
Asylum, Parramatta. Mr. Quong Tart at it again,
lhose who have not heard the gifted Tart make a
speech, will be glad to be told a few things about
it. Mr, Tart s strong point is humour! He usually
calls himself Mr. Mlnoe-Pie—this always brings
down the house. He lately spoke of himself as a
soft tart, and to see the crowd yell with delight
as he gives them this, and his own tea gratis, is
better than “Fun on the Bristol.” At the Parra-
matta spread, banners in his honour, with “suit-
able inscriptions,” were hung out in every direc-
tion, and in every language, except, oddly enough,
his own. Bxit Tart-jam satis.
* *
Lodge Sydney Tarbolton indulges in a
grand Masonic ball on the 11th Aug., at the Town
Hall. Lord Carlngton patronises, therefore suc-
cess of a gorgeous description is guaranteed in
advance.
* # *
An engagement is announced in Melbourne
between a Sydney girl now on a visit to Melbourne
and an American doctor of that oity.
* m *
A very enjoyab 'e evening was spent at the
Oddfellows’ Mali, Woollahra, on Monday, August
9, when between 80 and 70 guests responded to the
invitations for a dance, issued by Mrs. Bettington,
Glenroy, Waverley. The room, which possesses
an excellent floor for dancing, was prettllv de-
oorated with flags, and had at one end a raised dais
carpeted and furnished with luxurious lounging
chairs. The hostess wore black satin duchesse,
train and bodice, the front of the skirt was
composed of black Spanish laoe forming soft
draperies and looped with jet drops. Light re-
freshments were served during the evening, and
at half-past 11 the guests sat down to an irre-
proachable supper.
* * »
On dit, that an engagement is on the tapis
between the second daughter of a Sydney mint-
official and Dr. Bccles, of Melbourne.
* » v
On Thursday afternoon, 29th ult., Miss
Gertrude Smith was married to Mr. W. H.
Nicholis, at St. Andrew’s Church, Summer
Hill, Bydney, by Kev. John Vaughan. The
church was appropriately decorated, and was
Ailed with interested spectators and guests.
The bride, who looked thoroughly happy, wore a
very handsome dress of white satin, made with
Court traiD, and profusely trimmed with orange
blossoms and jessamine. The front of the dress
was covered with handsome lace, and the long
white tulle veil was arranged over a wreath of
orange blossoms. Six bridesmaids were in attend-
ance, and were dressed in pairs to match. Two
were in cream and pink, two in cream and helio-
trope, and two in cream and blue; they all wore
high-crowned plush hats to match their costumes.
After the ceremony, the party adjourned to Ken-
sington, the residence of the bride’s mother, where
iraakfast was partaken of, and where, in the
evenisg, about 70 or 80 guests assembled at a dance.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Nicholis received a great num-
ber of very handsome and useful presents, which
were seen to advantage in the well-arranged
marquee.
o ® @
On Friday evening, the 30th ult., the Syd-
ney Assembly ball took place at Needs’ rooms,
when oyer 100 people were present, and a
thoroughly enjoyable evening was spent, the
music, floor, &0., being all perfect, and supper
arrangements well managed.
* • o
Hon. Mr. Baring (of the great London firm
of private bankers), who is a relation of Lady
CaringtOD, is now a guest at Government House,
Sydney. Mr. Baring arrived from ’Frisco by the
Mararoa.
* 8 •
A very enjoyable assembly was held in
Ashfleld Town Hail, on Wednesday evening, the
28th ult. The hall was prettily decorated, music
and supper arrangements all good. A number of
Sydney visitors were present. Amorgst the pretty
dresses noticed were a pale-blue satin, draped with
same coloured tulle ; a black satin with rich
tablier of cut jet; a white silk and lace, orna-
mented with crimson velvet bows; a neat Dink
satin, with silver trailing flowers.
• • ®
It is rumoured that a grand fancy dress
ball is shortly to bo given in the Opera House,
Sydney. A floor is to be laid over the stalls, and
arrangements are to be made on the grandest
scale.
* * *
On Thursday evening, the 29th ult., the
Waratah Cricket Club held an entertainment in
the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, which was most
thoroughly enjoyed by all present. During the
evening some good music and songs were ren-
dered by Messrs. Goldsmith, Hamilton, Bowzer,
Tye, and Watson, and the trophies won during the
season were presented by Mr. Hamilton, the chair-
man of the club, to the successful competitors.
' The hall was then cleared, and danciDg was in-
dulged in until the small hours. Many frocks
worn on this ocoasion were worthy of admiration.
A pale blue, covered with silver spangled tulle,
was remarkably pretty, also a white satin draped
1 with quantities of flame-coloured tulle, and flame-
coloured bodice. A rich red plush, with tablier of
cream satin, was handsome, and a sea-green silk
profusely trimmed with white lace, was verv
pretty and becoming.
* * *
The annual Masonic festival, under the
English Constitution, will this year take the form
of a grand ball, to be held in the Sydney Exhibi-
tion Building on the 28th September. It is said
the vice-regal patronage has been promised.
* * *
The Balmain Rowing Club’s fourth annual
ball was held in the vestibule of Sydney Town
Hall on Friday evening, the 30th ult„ and proved
to be a complete success. De Groen sup-
plied music, and the room was not too crowded. A
short, slight young lady was conspicuously pretty
in masses of pale yellow tulle, with blue and
yellow flowers arranged about the skirt and in
front of the well-fitting bodice. A tall dark girl
flashed about in vivid red tulle, while her friend
chose a becoming heliotrope tulle.
* ? *
The Petersham Private Socials hold their
next meeting on Friday evening, the Bth inst.
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson returned to Sydney on
Friday, the 30th, after a short stay in Brisbane.
a • &
On Thursday evening, the 29th, Lord and
Lady Carington were at home to a number of
friends,when a few very pleasant hours were passed
in listening to some good music well rendered.
Light refreshments wereserved d uring the evening
The party terminated at about 12 o’clock. Amongst
the numerous guests were Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Austin, Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Joseph, Mr. and Mrs
Angus, Mrs. Fred Cape, Mrs. Frisby and Miss Gilder!
Mr. Duncan Campbell, Mr. Dillon, and many others.
* • *
Mr. L. Whitfield, late master of the Sydney
Grammar School, has been appointed associate to
his Honor Judge Windeyer, Mr. Henry Cockshott,
who was Mr. Whitfield’s predecessor, having been
called to the bar.
• i t
Lady Carington has consented to attend
the lecture to be given in Sydney School of Arts
on 14th inst., upon the subject of “Practical
Nursing.”
• ■ ■
Mr. R. S. Smythe displayed his wonted
sagacity in arranging for the appearance on the
Sydney concert platform of tne sisters Joran.
Their performance on Thursday night was an
evident success, and the acknowledgement of
their powers an undoubted guarantee of future
popularity. This is just the sort of show that
will suit the much-travelled. He is never so happy
as when he is intimately associated with talent of
some sort, lu art, literature, or eciencs, while he is
generally supposed to be not quite impervious to
the charms of beauty. The regrettable incident
in connection with the appearance of Madame
Boema probably arose out of a misunderstanding
with regard to the customs of the profession.
Madame, in consenting to sing, evidently
meant to give one number only, and thought
that no more was required, while Mr. Smythe,
perhaps more conversant with the interpretation
of such contracts, considered two songs the rule
under the circumstances, and claimed that had
only one song been required it would, according
to custom, have been so nominated in the agree-
ment. Therefore it happened that when Madame
came on to the platform to fulfil what she believed
to be the contraot, no accompanist oame forward.
Had Mr. Smythe allowed Mr. Huenerbein to
accompany, this would have implied consent on
his part to accept less than he believed should
rightly have been given. While regretting the
unfortunate incident we are unable to join in the
general lament concerning some supposed “ affront
to the Governor.” Why his lordship should be espe-
cially considered is a problem that we must leave to
the grovellers of the Press and their sympathisers
among the people. We suppose that Governor
Carington paid to go in like all the rest, and we
think that whether this were the case or not, any
affront (we cannot see that there was aDy) must be
divided equally among all of those who were
present,
* * *
A sister of the popular treasurer of Sydney
Theatre Royal is said to have been so charmed
with Mr. H. J. SamueU’s management of the
Widow O’Brien” as to have decided upon
placing herself in the same care. Marriage fixed
for December next.
• * *
At the close of the Joran concert in
Sydney last week, the talented sisters beat a hasty
retreat when Lord Carington advanced to the
platform to congratulate them. That they should
run away from so popular a Governor is a faot
requiring heaps of explanation. If it had been
some nobleman who had freely consorted with the
Prince of Wales and the Bari of Aylesford their
retreat would have been natural enough. To run
from so nice a man as Lord Carington was absurd.
* * *
Bosisto, the Radical, has been dragged to
Osborne House (see Monday’s papers), and had the
collar of the C.M G. put on him. Nothing more
indecent in the whole Exhibition business has
taken place than the way in whioh men who really
did not want them have had to receive “royal
honours.” First Berry—now Bosisto—it will be
Mayor Young next.
* * #
We understand that a fashionable homoe-
pathlc practitioner is about to lead to the altar the
charmiDg and vivacious widow of a weli-known
University professor.
• * *
“I like the Sydney Lancers,” said a re-
cently-arrived German lady the other day. “ The
llags they carry are very pretty. Besides, the men
are so well-dressed, and the horses so intelligent
looking.”
* * *
“ Shakespeare or Bacon,” is the profound
heading over a Sydney paper’s columns. Well,
we think that altogether depends on what you
want to satisfy. As a rule we say bacon.
* • m
Upwards of 400 ladies and gentlemen, who
attended the recent Jubilee ball, have had their
photos, taken for Mayor Young’s album. Pro-
bably the sending of that album will be the last
straw on the Imperial back, and diplomatic com-
munication wilt be broken off between St. James’s
and Potts Point. Hoddle’s eggs are pretty trying,
but the album will “ kill on sight.”
• * *
Lady Dudley will shortly arrive in Aus-
tralia with the object of meeting her eldest son,
who is now yachting in the Pacific. As it is not
the lady s intention to write a book about us,
people will be glad to gaze upon her loveliness.
* * *
It is not generally known that to the
arduous duties of governing Government House,
Lord Carington adds that of Joint Hereditary
Lord Great Chamberlain to her Majesty I This
office oomes to him through his mother, who, we
suppose, carried out the awful functions of the
office during her lifetime. It must he nearly as
hard work to do your duty as J.H.L.G.C. to her
Majesty and live in Australia as to be a Right
Honorable and give advice by cable.
* * *
Hebmbs is the latest literary production
emanating from Sydney University. Strangely
enough, it does not appear to satisfy "a
long-felt want,” but is announced as “an
enterprise which could not have remained
unattempted much longer.” From the edi-
torial column we learn that “ blatant members
of Parliament have thrown mud at us (the under-
grads) so often that some of it has stuck,” and It
is presumably for the purpose of scraping off this
mud that Hermes has sprung into existence.
* * *
The loss on the recent performance of
“Agamemnon,” at Sydney University, is stated
by Hermes, the undergrads.’ paper, to have been
about £3O. Professor beott paid up the amount.
His chief joy in this world seems to consist in
donating big cheques to impoverished committees
and institutes.
9 e 8
Someone has pointed out that Mayor
Young, of Sydney, has not yet given a single
“spread” in his civic capacity to the “city,” but
has confined himself in laying out the £lOOO the
" city” gives him in semi-private sprees. There is
something in that, certainly, but is there anything
“ in” entertaining “civic” functionaries. That is
the whole question,
4 4 *
The hall in celebration of the Gundagai
railway opening, on the night of the 21st, was a
conspicuous success. Music good, floor ditto, and
ladies—well, they are always lovely around Gunda-
gai. Mrs. Cummiog wore a rich costume of cream
duchease satin, beautifully embroidered with
pearls in front, side panels of ruby plush, and a
splendid train—garnet necklace and ornaments
completed this really beautiful costume. Another
noticeable dress was a rich white silk trained
dress, profusely trimmed with rich lace and
flowers. This was worn by Mrs. Simpson, of
Uootamundra, and became the charming wearer
well. A beautiful dress for a married lady was
worn by Mrs. O'Dwyer, the wife of the local
doctor. It was a seal brown merveilieux, richly
trimmed with tulle and lace, looped up with lovely
cream chrysanthemums; Mias Lee(Jugiong) wore
a pale-green satin, draped with sllver-tufted tulle,
looped with moss roses and pale-pink velvet bows.
An amber neGkiaoe and bracelets completed this
costume—and the wearer, a beautiful blonde, was
much admired. Another much-admired costume
was a pale-blue satin, draped with pale-blue
tufted tulle, worn by Miss Fry, of Guadagai.
Mrs. D. L. M'KeDzle wore a rich costume of
amber plush, draped with black lace, and looped
with chrysanthemums; Mrs M'Killop cream broche
and lace; Mrs. Solomon, pale-green satin iaoe and
pearls; Mrs. Donnelly (Junee), cream satin and
ruby velvet; Miss Donnelly, pale-blue satin lace
and pearls; Mrs. Abrahams, white brocade and
pearls; Miss Cumming, cardinal brocade and
cream lace, ornate witn beautiful wild flowers;
Miss M'Auliffe (Jugiong), a trained black silk,
draped with crimson anu gold tufted tulle, looped
with, gloire de dijon roses; Mrs. Donaldson, black
surah and jet; Mrs. Paine, rich black lace costume;
Miss White, cardinal and black. The most notice-
able of the fancy dresses were “ Juliet,” worn by
Miss Marshall (atasteful costume); “Erin,” Miss
Wilson; “ Moonlight,” Miss E. Marshall; “Italian
Girl,” Miss A. Fry; “Southern Cross,” Miss Oooney;
“Highland Lassie,’ Miss Burnie; “Ambulance
Nurse,” Mrs. Ogg; “ Italian Girl,” Miss Madigan;
“Polish Hussar,” Miss Carroll; “ Vlvandiere,”
Mrs. F. Cohen. The Ministerial party departed at
130, but dancing was kept up till 5 a.m., when the
most successful bail ever held in Gundagai was
brought to a termination.
Premier decorators ot New
South Wales. Baie and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully deeorated witn
flag and floral decorations, Hunter-street
Sydney.*
BHiD L 1 ¥, NEWTON, 8t LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERER*,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
Full suites for dining-room.— side.
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
sdfg
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at aM
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashioaably Up-
holstered, at all prioes. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
m
1« •> PIANOFORTE,
»OU guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
ui Embridery, Plush, &g. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
sdf
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets. *
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O’Connell-sfcreet.
i-v
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gs
W t ALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier —a desideratum for the Barria
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order ra
anyjmaterial.
df
Re voLving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Good?,
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newten, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
gsd
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Niekel-plated and Blask
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
fg
QPRING MATTRASSES
k_7 Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
1 13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes 10s. 6d. •
Writing Tables, with drawers, tWK flfc.
BRADLEY, NBWT@N ! T7AMB.


Mr. Salomons, Q.C., and Mr. Roberts,
solicitor, the veteran practitioners who take pro-
minent professional parts in the great N.B.W.
railway-conspiracy cases, both figured conspicu-
ously in the Bertrand case 30 years ago.
The niggers of the Far North and North-
West are still hard at work putting a head on the
Aryan gold-seeker who traverses these wilds en
route for Kimberley or some other bogus El
Dorado. Some distanca from Port Darwin four
men were prospecting in a gully, when the blacks
discharged a flight of spears at them and struck
one unfortunate through the heart. The nigger
of the wilderness is an energetic individual, who
sd
v^lQHr.
(al'e. fT€% ,vji fJef
N/| c LM^huiiV
r oK
<£.Ti<fuKfiC
j%KC™
fg
i~
h/'^-
y
/. f*
-y „
/ vv>/
f , l,
f^w
rqSr“
\ If r
, Col°'
mm ~
CROrtrfCOUHszk
ma s x r^AOC
5X
(fh/z/of
Ou^CHJ,
ftlQUh
✓o Know
>r(t /yjjivit »P
5
Ih£
<jßt:/\r |\|.s W.ft/\!LWA7 CaSE>.
Caricatures in Court.
adheres very closely to his own particular spear
of usefulness, and he makes things hot for the
auriferous pilgrim.
According to the report of a wealthy
syndicate, who has just returned in a dusty and
shoeless condition from Kimberley, that place is
even a trifle worse than has been hitherto sup-
posed. About 1300 men are now on the field, and
have got some 2000 oz. of gold among them, or an
average of nearly £6 per head, and on a rough
estimate nearly 4000 more diggers are on the road,
to this valley of dry bones to share the plunder.
At Derby it is sometimes difficult to find even a
pennyweight of gold, and the chief amusement
j3eem.s to bejiyniing up men. who wroto glowing
accounts of the district and watching them skip
for the wilderness to avoid being lynched. The
town is choked up with stores which no one has
money to buy, and at Cambridge Gulf things are
equally unpromising. Even the long-looked-for
wet season is not likely to do much good, for on
the field the water only lasts seven or eight days
at the mosta f ter the rain has ceased, and appar-
ently the satyr who used to roost on the broken
walls of Nineveh might have gratified his ffisane
love for desolation by camping out on the Kim-
berley goldfield. But unless he carried his own
provisions there is every chancs that he would
have starved.
A Woollahra man, Signing himself A
Thorough Hater of Rome,” writes to
pastor on the subject of a new Orange grievance.
He has discovered, he says, that In Syoney the
art of fighting is taught by a Popish pognist
named Foley to a body of men entirely Roman
Catholic by order of Cardinal Moran, and tne
object of this is to have a transubstantiatlon gang
on hand “ for the purpose of Bilencing our rro-
testant brethren at all general elections and otner
meetings that are likely to be held to denounce
the Papal government now existing intnis
colony ” His object In writing, he adds, is to asa
the gaffer of the doxology caboose if
consistent with his holy office to advise his con-
gregation to start a Bible-bruising class of their
own on the same principle, so that this brutal
priestly move may be met with a truly Protestant
check. The author of this letter has evidently
struck on a genuine danger, and his statements
deserve all possible publicity. There is every
reasen to believe that the real purpose of Foley’s
Gymnasium is to train a crowd of mutton-fisted
Papists, whose business it will one day be to knook
their Protestant fellow-citizens into gory dish-rags
and wipe their Roman boots on the Lutheran
gizzard. Even the'Cardinal himself, we are in-
tormed, takes private lessons in pounding, and
after six rounds with Foley he has been heard to
say, while the perspiration dropped from the tip
of his eminent nose, that when the moment for
action arrived he would knock the lurid interior
out of the Bishop of Sydney and put him under
the pump. If this sort of thing is allowed to con-
tinue, Protestantism will, sooner or later, be pul-
verised Into boarding-house hash, and Pope Leo
XIII., K.C.M.G., will usurp the billet of Mayor of
Sydney and levy a half-benefit !at the Protestant
theatres. Even while we write, an excited Baptist,
with a boot on one foot and a shoe on the other,
and without any visible linen worth swearing
by, has come In to assure us that a conspiracy
has been formed by the Romish tailors of Sydney,
acting under direct orders from the Vatican, to
make the pants of their Protestant customers
without any slack behind, with the view of holding
the reformed religion up to contempt, and alreaay
the spirit of persecution has spread so widely tnac
in an Australian reßtaurant the man who does not
believe in purgatory always gets the petrified part
of the jam roll and the thick end of the
The evil has now attained such Kwautio propor-
tions that only strong measures will effect a cure.
If a law were passed authorising every Protestant,
on meeting two Catholics together to ®hoot _*r
might do some good, especially if the •
immediately hanged, while all Romish> priesta
should be boiled under the inspection of a properly
authorised official. We specially recommend this
idea to the consideration of the gentleman at
Woollahra who hates the Pope so viciously, and
are confident that, if universally adopted, it will
. ■h«H-<»rthan if he had swallowed a
hn a ttl° h oniai e r-waeh and lived for three years on a
fish dietf (N 3 -Several of the above remarks are
kind of ironical.)
n« Mnrrav's now dictionary of the English
Dr. Murray estimated, 340.000 words,
r >oo of these to express exactly
andit will take DJ.oW or B f ee i cexfc tb *
Home Rule Bill i 8 introduced into Parliament.


THE STORY OF BERTRAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAPTER I.-TWENTY YEARS AGO.
taken, together with that of William Cooper, an
officer in the City Bank, and that ot Dr. Eicbler,
the medical man who bad been called in on the
night of the tragedy. Mr. Cooper spoke only of
the habits of deceased. Dr. Eichler, describing the
wound, said that the temporal artery and part of
the maxillary artery were torn, and that the
temporal bone was fractured. The other witnesses
testified to the manner in which the occurrence
bad tBken place. Mrs. Kinder, Mr. Kinder, and
Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand were, it appeared, in one
room about six o’clock in the evening. The ladies
were sewirg near the window. Mr. Kinder sat on
a chair near the door, and Mr. Bertrard farther
over in the i oom. A few words passed concerning
some letters which hrd arrived demanding money
—one from the New Zealand Bank asked for pay-
ment ot £l2O. Mr. Kinder was troubled. He left
the room and returned in a few minutes. The
ladies’ heads were down, but Mr. Bertrand, look-
ing towards Mr. Kinder, saw a pistol in his right
band, the muzzle of it beirg against the right side
of his bead near the ear. A Joud report followed.
The ladies ran screaming cut of the room. The
pistol fell, but a pipe Kinder had been smoking
remained in his mouth The ladies returned.
Kinder sat on the chair with blood flowing from
the right side of his head. Scon he fell from the
chair, and Mr. Bertrand ran for a doctor, leaving
Mrs. Kinder holding up her husband’s bead. Ber-
trand did not find a doctor, but in consequence of a
message heleftDr. Eichler came uplateintbenigbt.
Kinder lingered for four days, during which time
Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand remained in the house, the
former dressing and undressing the wound of the
dying man, and the latter end Mrs. Kinder doing
all they could to assist. This was the eviderce
laid before the coroner’s jury in Dind’s Hotel, and
the following verdict was immediately returned:—
"Deceased died from the effects of a wound in-
flicted by himself by discharging a pistol loaded
with powder, whilst labouring under a fit of tem-
porary insanity.”
Chapter ll.— Tongue and Pen.
The grave clcsed od the dead. But an indefin-
able iear took hold of the public mind. There
was a terror in the air. Kinder’s house wss broken
up. His wife, with her two children, had gone to
Sydney is silent. The roar of traffic has died
away. Theatres are empty, and shops closed.
The last ’bus has left the city, the last bell has
rung on the landing-stage of the ferry. Bed and
green lights gleam from the bay, but there, as
Well as on the streets of the city, the silence <f
night has settled down. It is within a quarter of
an hour of midnight. A light burns in No. 7,
Wynyard-square. It is in a small room, the work-
shop of Sydney’s most fashionable dentist. But
more than dentist’s art is practised there.
The light is low. Two men stand before it.
Both are young, slight, pale, quick in movement,
keen in glance. The elder is in bis 25th jeer,
While the younger is barely 20. They look at eac h
other in silence. The elder is a man of plans. He
is small of stature and gentle in demeanour, but
his intellect is violent. He is master here. Where
master he is tyrannous, exacting, ravenous for
speedy results. But he knows how to make an
Instrument of an associate. The younger man
steps back as he is looked at. The words dropped
are whispers. The light is turned down.
“ Beady ? ” ssks the one.
Beady;” answers the other.
The door opens. Two men moving like shadows
pass cut of No. 7. They do not speak till they
nave got cut of Wynyard-square. Then their
words are low, slow.and of commonplace import.
They tread the silent streets. They descend to
the wharves. A beat is ready. The younger
jumps in first. The elder looks around. The city
is silent behind. Lamps flicker on the top of the
hill. At the other side of the wharf a waterman
rests on his oars. The second shadow glides into
the boat. n
The oars splash, and the boat moves forward.
The moon comes cut, and the broad waves raise
their crests. They flaunt their silvery-white
head-gear in the world’s ballroom. The two men
ply the oars. The younger leans tack so as to
hold the eider in full view. Neither speaks. They
reach land. Above them is North Shore. Tying
up the boat they climb the bill. In five minutes
they come to a house. It is silent, dark, but the
moonlight falls upon it. They come near it.
“Bee,” says the elder, “that is bis bedroom I
The moon shines on the window. We are too
early. We must come back another night.”
Three nightß after oars splash in the waves, and
the same two men approach North Shore. It is
near one o’clock in the morning. There is little
wind, and the moon is low. The elder whispers,
“He may be found dead in his bed. It will be
suicide. He will have Jackson’s letters in his
hands, and people will say * He killed himself, be-
cause he found his wife! faithless!’ Eh?” The
younger does not speak. Be leans farther back
andiwatches more closely the movements of his
companion.
They tie up the boat at the wharf, and again
climb the bill. The same house stands wrapped in
darkness and silence before them. Within ad< zen
yards of it they pause. Toe elder tak« s eff his
hoots and gives them to the younger. Stealthily
he glides to the front of the house. He raises the
dining-room window and noiselessly enters. The
breeze freshens and trees in the distar ce creak.
An hour passes. The figure returns through the
dining-room window, noiselessly draws down the
sash, and crosses over to where the younger man
waits. Be finds him sleeping. He takes his boots,
awakes him, and says: “ Come. I tailed sgain.
His beer was drugged, but he didn’t touch it. He
•tarts up in bed every now and then. But I will
gain ray end yet. His wife must be mine alone!
Come, shake yourself; let us go home.”
Once again, on another night, men climb the bill.
The elder has a tomahawk hanging by a string
under his coat.
|,“What have you against the man?” asks the
younger, as they slink along in the darkness.
“ I want his wile.”
“ But you and she are intimate as it is. What is
the ob J :,et of killing him ? ”
“ I want her all to myself.”
“ And your own wife ? ”
“I’ll get a divorce; I’ll pay someone to get up
something against her.”
The whispers end. The elder removes his boots,
goes to the same window, enters, puts his hand to
the lock of the door. He has previously taken the
screws out and put the lock back in its place with
putty. Now it falls off in his band. He grips the
tomahawk and listens. What other sounds are
these he hears ? Other men besides the one he
seeks sleep in the house tc-night. One is Jackson,
a rival in adultery. The other Is Llewellyn, the
adulterous woman’s brother. The man with the
tomahawk stands in the passage and considers.
Would it be safe ? He spends an hour in the dark-
ness and among the stertorous sounds of slumber
deliberating. At last be puts the tomahawk back
under his coat, returns through the window, and
With his associate descends the hill. Is he baulked ?
See him again. He has a red Crimean shirt cn ;
his face is blackened, his moustache shaved iff,
and in the darkness before the house he swallows
a couple of glasses of brandy. If he is seen he
will not be recognised. The red shirt will not
show marks of blood. The associate hands him
the tomahawk. He goes in. He stays there three-
quarters of an hour. When he comes out he is
angry. He has not had a chance to use the toma-
hawk.
“ Come in with me,” he whispers to his associate.
“If anything happens, take my part and knock
the brains out of whoever interleres.”
“I have no share in the man’s wife,” replies the
associate, “and would rather go home.”
The two men stand in the dentißt’s workshop at
No. 7 Wynyard Square.
“ Have you any pistols ?” aeks the elder.
“I have one,” replies the other, “but it is no
U 80»”
“Do you know where any could he got, and
where anyone might buy them without being re-
cognised ?”
•• I don’t know, but I will try to obtain a couple
for you.”
“I will get them myself. Will you meet me tc-
night at 8 o’clock opposite Fetty’s Hotel? I will
dress as a woman.”
.Two persons that night enter Levy and Co.’s
Shop in Lower Georg e-street, and one of them
stepping forward to the counter desires to see
some pistols. The other, who looked to he a
woman, remains at the door. Two pistols are
purchased, the person at the door supplying the
money. On the day after, a sheep's htaa is pur-
chased. It is mounted in the dentist's workshop.
The elder man loads the pistols and fires several
times at the sheep’s head. Be then orders the
sheep’s head to be taken down and burned.
“ What did you fire at it for ?”
“I wished to know which part of the skull the
bullet would enter into the soonest. The side of
the temple between the eye and the ear is the beßt
On the 6th oi October, 1865, the people of Sydney
were shocked by the announcement that Mr.
Henry Kinder, chief teller in the City Bank, had
committed suicide by shooting himself in the head
at his residence in North Shore. The pistol-shot
appeared to have been fired four days previously,
but the deceased wife and a couple of acquaint-
ances, who were on a visit to the house at the
time, kept the matter quiet, thinking, as they
stated, that the unfortunate maD might recover.
Mr. Kinder, who was a native of London, was, at
the date of his death, 35 years of age. He had been
only two years in Sydney, but had been many
years in New Zealand, where he had held positions
in the Union Bank and in the Bank of New Zea-
land. He was in debt when leaving New Zealand,
and appeared to have found it difficult to answer
the demands made upon his salary in the City
Bank. His wife was about five years younger
than himself, and he had two children. He was
much given to the use of stimulants. He was able
to transact his business while in the bank, but
generally reached home in drink. Still, he saw a
good deal of company at his house. On the occa-
sion of the tragedy, Mr. Henry Louis Bertrand, a
dentist, carrying on business in Wynyard-square,
and his wife were staying in Kinder’s house.
At the inquest held on the body at Dind’s hotel,
North Shore, on the day following the death, the
testimony of Mrs. Kinder and her two guests was
AT THE ART GALLERY.
THE THREE GRACES.
YOKEL (“ full of information”): "YOU SEE, THE MIDDLE ONE IS THE GRACE BEFORE
DINNER; THE OTHER TWO ARE THE ONES BEFORE BREAKFAST AND TEA.”
her mother in Bathurst. The Bertrands bad come
back to No. 7, Wynyard Square. But a sense ot
unreat spread through all. It was as if a ghost
were afoot. Thoughts went back to the man sit-
ting in the chair in the room at North Shore with
a four inch wound from his ear to his temple,
a pipe “ still in his mouth,” and a letter demanding
£l2O in his hand.
One day a letter from Francis Arthur Jackson
was delivered at No. 7, Wynyard Square. Jack-
son bad known the Kinders when they were in
New Zealand. He had been a member of their
household, and had been criminally intimate with
Mrs. Kinder. The intimacy was renewed after-
wards at North Shore. When the acquaintance
with the Bertrands sprang up, the lady trarslerred
her affections from Jackson to Bertrand. Jackson
was now in West Maitland, and, on reading an ac-
count of Kincer’s death, he wrote a letter to his
successful rival. The following are passages of
it: —
“ I am shocked, horrified, astounded, at the
denouement of your plans. . . . I little thought
when you told me not to be surprised at anything
after my departure that it would end in this.
. . . Had the jury known one-half that I could
tell them, this would ring through the wholte of
the civilised world. ... I would not stand in
your shoes at this moment for all the wealth,
rank, riches, and beauty it is in the power of the
world to bestow. As lor the accomplice and ac-
cessory, I pity as much as blame her.”
Jackson wound up by demandirg £2O to carry
him away to some other land, as he "could not
remain in a country where such a fearful trsgedy
was enacted.” He had, however, to stay in the
country, for Bertrand, professing spotlessness of
conscience, put the letter in the bands of the
police, and, convicting Jackson on a charge of
trying to extort money, had him sent to Darling-
hurst Gaol for twelve months.
But this trial made the public interest greater.
The ghost of Kinder rose more boldly into the
noise of daylight. There were trouble, anxiety,
vexation, around the riddle. Wherever there is
ah atmosphere charged with grave inquiry there
will be persons who, urged by the influence of
subtle currents, will drop what knowledge they
possess in answer. The words may do them harm,
but unless their self-control is great they will drop
them when tapped by the silent and imperceptible
irfluences among which they move. Ask them in
years after why they spoke. They will say, show-
ing the marks which the irons have left on them
for the speech, that they must have been fools at
the time. It was not they, however, who were
different, but the atmosphere. The silent, imper-
ceptible, inaudible vibration of mind to mind on
that particular subject existed then and not in the
years after.
So it happened that Bertrand loosed bis tongue.
Bis sister Harriet, who bad married a Melbourne
civil servant, came to Wynyard-rquare on a visit.
Her brother gave his secrets to her. He told her
he loved Mrs. Kinder, and was determined to bTing
her from Bathurst and make her his wife. He told
her he would get adivorce from his present wife,
although he bad no special fault to charge against
her during bis tbree years of married life. The
thought of his two children did not move him.
He waxed more confidential. He entered her
bedroom one morning and seating her on the side
of the bed he sat down beside her and said: “I
have ((metbing to tell you.” He said, "Kinder
did not shoot himself—lsbot him.” She put her
hands up to ter face and began to cry. He said,
" Don’t cry, I don’t tegre t w bat I have done.” He
went on then to declare that Kinder was in his
WBy, and that he would do the same thing to any
man who stood in bis way. As she cried, be went
into detail. He said that when he bad shot Kinder
he put the pistol in bis hand and the pipe in his
mouth. He warned her to say nothing to Mrs.
Bertrand.
Then the murderer loosed his tongue oncemore.
He said to his sister, “ I must marry Mrs. Kinder.
I cam ot give her up. I know Bbe is a bad wcman,
but that is why 1 must marry her. I will make a
second Lucretia of her.” Be leaned over bis
sister and said, * Kinder did not die by the
that. B e poisoned him. She,” pointing to
his wife who was lying asleep on the sofa,
“gave him poison. The poison will nqyer
be discovered. I have enough poison in the
bouse to kill half the people in Sydney.” As if to
sbr w that this was no vain boast, ar d to prove his
irflexibility be soon created a situation. He
argued with bis wife. He had, according to bis
sister’s statement, attempted to murder her a
abort time Defore. On this occasion he came
home at 1 o’clock in the morning. He told his
wife the moat die. Be took up a stick with a sling
at the tnd called a life-preserver, and said he
wanted to measure the exact spot where her brain
was, so that he could kill her with one biow. She
taid, “Don’t kill me; you promised on your word
of honor thatyou would not kill me. He raised
the stick to strike. The sister rushed in. She
pleaded for his mother’s, for his children's, for
every sake to forbear. He ordered her out. When
she lelt he shut the door. Then she heard him say
to his wife, “Now, Jane, I want you to go into the
surgery, to write on this piece of paper that you
are tired of your life, and that you poisoned your-
self by your own hand.” She heard her say, “No.
You may pour the poison down my throat, but I
will not write anything.”
But he loosed his tongue again. In the dentist’s
workshop, in No. 7 Wynyard-square, two men
stand face to face. A low light burns before
them.
They are both yourg. Who are they?
Lock at them. Did we not see them looking
thus into each other’s face before? On the nights
the city was silent, did not these two men pass
down the street and make to the wharf ? Are not
these they who, with the moon shining down on
the silver-crested waves, rowed silently over the
waters to North Bhore ? Are not these they who
stopped before the house of Henry Kinder ? Look
at the elder. Is not that the man who took off his
boots and climbed through the window? Is not
that the man who wore the Crimean shirt and
carried the tomahawk ? It is. He and Henry
Louis Bertrand, the dentist of Wynyard-square,
are one; and the man facing him, the man who
held his boots, the man who bought the hatchet,
the man who bought the pistols, the man who
bought the Crimean shirt, is Albert Broad,
assistant in the shop. Nameless shadows so long,
they now, named, stand face to face, and each
knows how far the other has gone.
One sentence is enough between them. Henry
Kinder is dead! They look at one another. Each
summons up the past. There is silence. Each
krifl^fl.
The pen is also answering. Love is loud-voiced,
however two may try to keep it down. The
widow of the dead man is in Bathurst. That is
far away from ber illicit lover. Her lover is ’n No
7. Wynyard-square. the bad eeased to love Henry
Kinder. Whatever about the past, and so far as sbe
saw in the future, Henry Louis Bertrand answered
totbe bell which passion rarg in the chambers
ofherbeirg. It was little wonder. He wrote to
her as a g oddess. she wrote to him as a god. That,
if sincere, 1s Love. Bertrand, though a murderer,
Mrs. Kinder though an adulteress, had, if their
statements at this stage are to be taken as true,
risen to a plane on which there is no room for
those who live ard marry and fatten and die by
law. There is such a plane in existence. It is
high, with breezes of its own, and suns and stars
of fls own. Few lives rise to it.
Frem Bathurst, within a month from her hus-
band’s death, ste wrote to Bertrand, at Wynyard-
square—“Ob, darling, if you could know how my
heart was aching for a word of love from you.
Dear, dear love, your kind lovirg words seem to
fill a void in my heart. I was tormenting myself
with all sorts darling. Write very
olten—every day if you can-and I will be here to
answer. ’ In answer to Bertrand's proposal that he
shouldgeta divorce frem hiswlfe, she says: “You
may not be able to accomplish your purpose on
account of the expense, but I must not give wav
to thoughts of this kind.” She writes: “Do bear
me up, my own love, and hope for better days. I
tell you this when my own heart is sinking with
fears for the future, Lovey. Lovey, if we could
see each other occasionally it would be some com-
fort, but weary watching is terrible.” She goes
on: “ There is little or no prcspcct here for the
future. I would try and get a situation in some
house in Bydney. Here there is no such thing to
be bad. However, we must hope for the best. I
suppose you would not be asht med of our poor
home were you to come up, love; but I know it
will make no cifference to you. If I lived in a
shanty it would be all the Eane, would it not?”
She breaks out: “ A glimpse of you, oh, dearest
dearest! What would I not give to be taken to
your heart, if only for a mcment? . . . Your
Icve ia food and nourishment to me. I cannot do
without it. ... I believe, darling, that if our
f eparation is for long I shall go out of my mind I
cannot live without seeing you sometimes. . .
Howls Jane ” (Bertrand s wife?) “It is no use
saying lam grieved at her being laid up. That
would be a mere farce between you and me.”
Later on she writes: “I kiss you every night
dear cne, before Bleeping. God bless you, and let
me dream of you. 1 ciy oh, oh, off my heart, and
achetosee you.” Again she writes: “Oh, dar-
ling, darling, if I could only but see the old sur-
gery there, and leaning my head against yours, as
1 have so often done, tell you all and everything—
what a comfort it would be to me I” Again: “Oh
love, the thought that I might be an easier dis-
tance eff you makes me wild with pleasure. Dear
dear one, I place everything under your own
judgment.” This cry of hers has meaning: “ Oh.
dear, dear love, what can you mean about
mamma’s seoret ? I know of r one. Do, to tell
me. Darling, that must be some mistake. Oh my
love, have pity, and tell me.” Again: “ Ob, if I
could only be a true Christian, but my thoughts
and desires are so terribly wicked. lam myself
terrified at them. ... I do not know how I
shall feel when I see your dear face again. The
thought sets my breast beatiig and ihe blocd
gurgling in my veils. . . . Mamma gave me
a regular lecture to-day. I knew she would see
through us. I told mamma plain out I cared for
you and you me. . . . With regard to my own
heart's feelings there is no one else in the wide
world to whom I can talk to as you. Love, love,
you ask me to say I love you. Dear darling. ,t is
born in sorrow and trouble, therefore all the
stronger; my heart and mind ache with thestr begth
of nay leye Love you ? Oh, yes; better than
anything in this wide, wide world.”
There is eloquence in this woman. Men are poor
things in self-sacrifice, in affection, in love. Men
think of many things, and seldom rise above
mediocrity in any of them. Woman thinks of one
thing, ana on that is heroically strong. Criminal
as Mrs. Kinder was in many respects, she yet was
a woman with capacity to rise. Her passion was
far from being a brute one Her conscience told
her that her acts were those ol the drabbled out
cast. In the mirror of life she saw berselfas a
pestilence, a plague. Yet conscience and mirror
combined did not make her throw away the love-
liness of womanly affection. Defiled, polluted she
still looked up. The face wts not the painted
one of brazen evil. It was the face of hope of
longing, of yearning for the time when the love
now soiled would puriiy itself. “ Let hardship and
adversity come,” she says " I can bear anything
if only I can see your dear face ; if only at a dis-
tance sometimes. My heart has found its res?
Not all the world will alter it in thought or deed ”
Bertrand promises a meeting. She writes* “Oh
this meeting, love; oh, I shall go mad. It is too
delicious to dream of. Let it be in reality, darling*
do, do!
In No. 7, Wynyard Square, a man sat daily read-
ing these hot words, and entering his own sent!
timents of reciprocation in a diary. This man whu"
Bertrand. “Lonely, lonely, lonely,” he writes-
“the is gone and I am alone. O my God, did I ever
think or dream of such igonyl Ellen Kinder
dearest Ellen, I thank, I dare to thank, God f. r
the bappinees of our last few minutes. Tear a
stream from my eyes, they relieve the buinii i?
anguish of my breaking heart. Child, 1 love then
passionately, aye, madiy. I knew not how rniir'l
until thou wert gone. Yet I am calm. ’Tis as the
dead silence that preludes the tempest. Dearlat
child, what would I not do for you, my wife fn
heart, soul, and spirit! Angel of love star
that hath illumined my dark existence I inf
grateful, very grateful, for the intense happiness
you have caused me. ... Oh, Ellen. I swear
that since the creation of the universe no woman
was ever loved as thou art. I own thee, I know*
but I crave, my own darling, to call thee wit 4
Defore God and man. ... I am now. bv mv
agonies, paying a debt io retributive jus-
tice. ... I fear, my dear Nelly, that not
having you to fascinate I shall been™
quite slovenly and untidy, for if T °p^ 0
suited my own feelings I should not dress at
all. I daresay, also, that I shall become uglv aimir-
for you know how ugly I was before I knew you’
I may be so now, only you do not see it, or rather
pretend not to. Never mind, my love if I am
good enough lor you, you are my world! That is
all I desire; no, that is not all, for I am ambitions
-very, very ambitious. I want fame, as well a!
wealth and power, and, as usual, little Bertrand
must have his way. I must have fame, fortune
and power, as well as the most ardent, pure tins’
sionate, and devoted love of the most fascinating
amiable, and best of women that the world at nre
sent contains. . . I hate the vile hypocrisy that
is inborn in man 8 very nature. I despise all,
everything worldly, except pure, unadulterated
love. This, O world, is thy only redeemir g feature
. . . Oh, dearest one, I long, long to see to em'
brace, thy dear self. What shall I do without
thee, my dear child? I love thee passionately
nay, more fondly than ever. omy beauty” do not
grow cold and formal. I shall die outright• lam
half dead already My heart grows Mck an “
faint when I look into the future. O God, is this
Thy retribution for our sins ? Did I flatter mvself
that the Almighty would let me-a wre ch jffie me
-go unpunished ? But I tell thee, Fate, I defy
thee! What do I care for aught only that 1 nm
with my Ellen ? Ido feel as if my heart was
in pieces—crushed, and then dark thoughts oh.
trude themselves before me; fiends rise and mock
they point to a gate, a portal through which
I feel halt inclined to go, but not yet. . . oh
could I be certain she loves me. 1 know I can
fascinate when sbe is with me, but away there ar©
so many fine, handsome men that I dwindle down
to insignificance in comparison. . . This love is
terrible—it will kill me. If need be I will will
ingly sell my soul to Satan for thee, oh. mv dear
one. What is the future or salvation to me ? Ido
not want it unless my Ellen share it with me No
where she goes there I shall be found, no matter
what penalty I have to pay. I glory in ruinim?
both body and soul for the idol I worship and
adore. Be she as wicked as Satan, or as vile and
wily as the serpent, I, even I, will save her: will
raise her from the depth of hell.”
Thus tongue and pen did their work. One day
Albert Broad went down to the Detective-office
and asked an interview with Captain M’Lerie then
Inspector-General of Police. Already the deteo“
(Continued on page 14.)


A Father’s Love.
“Rev. W. W. Rutledge of Armidale (N.S.W.), declared, in the course of a recent political sermon, that he ‘had looked in vain for any single instance where oppression had
been used by England towards Ireland, and considered the attitude of the former had been rather of a paternal character.' ”


Population of N.S.W., One Million; Public Debt, £41,500,000.


tives, with their hands on the T>iiblio T>ulso. wero
looking towards the grave in the North Shore
cemetery. Broad told about the moonlight Dlghts
when the boat was rowed to the wharf at North
Shore. More information followed. Detective
Elliott searched No. 7 Wynyard-square, and in a
secretary in the house found the lettersi tent from.
Bathurst by Mrs. Kinder. In a drawer in the bed-
room he found the diary Bertrand had been writ-
ink' with such warmth and candour. He also
lound poisons, a pistol, powder, ca ,P®’
matters capable of being used f9r itPPrpOfrpPJ"
poses. Henry Wager, a clerk in the Detective
Department, entered the house of Mrs. Kinder, at
Bathurst, and showed the letters that had been
found In the house at Wynyard-square. He de-
manded Bertrand’s letters in reply, and, getting
none, searched the house. He d' ® f
with which it was alleged Kinder himßelf.
Tongue and pen still worked. War ran is were
issued for the arrest of Maria Helen Kinder,
Henry Louis Bertrand, and Jane Bertrand, and on
Monday, the 4th of December, 1865, they were put
on their trial in the Water Police Court, Sydney,
charged with the murder of Henry Kinder.
Chapter 111.-The Wages op Sin.
The case in the Water
Police Court lasted a
week. Mr. Butler ap-
peared for the Crown,
and Messrs. Roberts and
Robberds for the accused.
As the evidence pro-
ceeded, it became clear
that neither of the women
participated directly in
causing the death of
Kinder. Mrs. Kinder had
taken th® story of tbo
death from Bertrand s
lips. She had not seen
the shot fired. But the
shot or the lingering
death of her husband did
not appear to pain her.
Harriet Kerr, Bertrand b
sister, heard from Mrs.
Bertrand that duriDg the
days that intervened be-
tween the shooting and
death, Mis. Kinder and
Bertrand spent most of
the time in walking up
and down the verandah
with their arms around
each other’s waists. But
still she was ignorant of
the actual fact alleged
againßt Bertrand. Ab for
Mrs. Bertrand, it was
shown that she was in
every sense a victim. She
was aware of her hus-
band’s crime but was
terrified into alienee.
Accordingly, though
the three prisoners were
committed for trial, the
Attorney - General de-
clined to prosecute the
women. iFor Mrs. Ber-
trand there was intense
publio sympathy. She had
only been three years
married and was now
barely 31 years of age.
Her married life had been
around of tortures. She
had been bruised, beaten,
and insulted systematic-
ally. Her husband had
been a fiend to her. Ac-
cording to the evidence
given by kis sister, Har-
riet, he had onoe stabbed
her. He had thrashed
her with Mrs. Kinder’s
whip until pieces of flesh
were torn off her baok
and shoulders. In other
respects he had behaved
monstrously. It was al-
leged, and was said to
have been admitted by
her, that the mixed the
poison which her hus-
band gave Kinder sab-
sequent to tbe shooting.
But everything bore out
the conclusion that in
presenoe of her husband
she had no free with On
the other haßd, the pub-
lio looked on Mrs. Kinder
with abhorrence. On the
23th of February. 1886,
she was brought before
the Court for discharge.
The Attorney - General
stated that he had no
case against her. The
court was crowded, and
a murmur of dissatisfac-
tion arose- She stood
in the dock, pale, tremb-
ltrg. She was in her
thirtieth year, and was
dressed in deep mourn-
ing. The Chief-Justice
ordered her release, and
she stepped out Into the
floor of the court. The
murmurs of dissatisfac-
tion grew louder. 8b e
looked around, trembled,
tottered, and fell to the
floor in a faint. The crowd
showed signs of a wish to
maltreat her. and she was
taken baok to the gaol for
protection.
Henry Louis Bertrand
thus stood alone in the
dock of the Central Crimi-
nal Court charged with
the murder of Henry
Kinder. Sir Alfred
Stephen, at that time
Chief Justice, occupied
the bench. Mr. W. B.
Dailey and Mr. Windeyer,
instructed by Mr. Rob-
erts, appeared for the
prisoner, and the Attor-
ney - General with Mr.
Butler for the Crown. The
prisoner looked a little
nervous when first placed
in the dock, but quiekly
composed himself and
smiled around the oourt
at such acquaintances as
he recognised. At seme
stages he indulged in
what was almost levity.
He was carefully dressed in black trousers and
vesjt and dark blue doth sac coat. He held a
memorandum book in his hand and consulted it
from time to time as the case went on.
The evidence was voluminous. The theory of
the Crown was that the prisoner put a loaded
pistol into Kinder's hand, not making known that
it was loaded, and either himself drew the trigger,
or caused Kinder to draw it, while the latter was
in a half-stupid stete from drink. The next point
urged was that Kinder bqgan to recover from the
effects of the shot, and Ms death on the Friday
at ter was attributable to poison rhbbed into the
wound by the prisoner or given t® him in drink at
the prisoner’s instance. The want of certainty as
to the actual oause of death burdened all the
pleadings.
A large number of witnesses gave evidence.
The medical testimony was not decisive. It con-
flicted on the leading points. Seeing that Kinder
had improved between Monday and Thursday, Dr.
Eichler was unable to mention any visible cause
or matter of fact to whicih to attribute the death
on Friday. Mr. Charles Watt, analytical chemist,
who on the exhumation of Kinder’s reimains
examined the stomach, found no traces of poison,
but did not consider it inconsistent with the result
of the analysis for poison of an organio nature to
have been administered. A long time had elapsed
l the s+omacKwe's tested, and it Is an estab-
fished fact tbat some of the most active and
deadly poisons rapidly decompose, and are
after a certain time undetectable by analysis.
Not to find traces of poison in Kinder’s
case after the expiration of two months
was not, therefore, greatly in the prisoner’s
favour, as, especially, some of those rapidly de-
composing poisons were discovered in his pos-
session.
The bulk of the evidence consisted of statements
alleged to have been made by the prisoner himself
at various times and to various persons. His rela-
tions with Mrs. Kinder, both before and after the
tragedy, threw a white fight on possible motives.
His diary was put in. Mis. Kinder’s letters were
read. His sister Harriet gave important particu-
lars. Mrs. Mary .Agnes Robertson, a frequent
visitor at the Bertrands, revealed many damag-
ing confidences. Albert Broad’s testimony was
crushing.
Counsel for the prisoner had not much logo
upon. The cue taken by Mr. Dailey was practi-
cally to admit that the prisoner bad said all he was
reported to have said. Mr. Dailey then argued that
his client was a miserable liar and vain fool, who,
to inspire admiration or terror, would stop at
nothiDg. Hence, the wilder the tale of his threats or
achievements given by him to Albert Broad or
. Harriet Kerr, the more miserable a liar and the
'Kr from the bustling city—from the “ crowd’s ignoble strife, *
Dwell a disappointed party who led a hermitsjue^^^^^
t SPS&3
' Hf l
!~
- |n : i
m
. gf
'r~7TT. - -73 ■ * ■ /*>’ ■ ■
'Wfcf Sy'Q- , . x ,,..,,
//erw/~a/~J?#ST?€ ,
On the shore of Middle Harbour,
In a cave both dry and big,
He lived, at home to no one
But a well-beloved pig.
He vowed with woman, man. or child,
He'd have no word to say,
Then however did it happen
That there eauie to him one day
A summons from the District Court to answer to the charge
Of breach of promise— plaintiff’s name was Mary Jane La Farge
Now Mary swore by black and white, by green and red and blue.
That he had vowed to make her his, and always to be true.
w
k
“ Your honor,” said defendant.
When in court the case was tried,
“ Sir, other than this blessed pig,
I knew no friend beside.
I never spoke to
man or boy,
Or female large
or big ;
And if you don’t
believe me
Why, dash it '
there’s the pig
l
A
lis false, tis false, the plaintiff cried.
He promised to he mine.
And leave his loathsome pig for me.
And that’s the very swine ! ”
(Here the learned Judge nobbed audibly,
and shook his bat at the defendant, who
would have been mobbed on the apot by thia
impartial but virtuously indignant jury, had
not his Honor, with great presence of mind,
proceeded with the case aa follows, to wit.
namely) •-
“ The evidence,” his Honor said, “ so far conflicts, I find,
And which the guilty party is I can’t tnake up my mind.
To swear point blank as ye have done is otium cum dig,
So, if ye’ve nothing more to add, we’ll swear the blooming pig.
The swine was placed upon his oath and duly cautioned. ' Now
His Honor said, “ I pray you tell the .Jury when and how
It happened that the other one, who never left his cave.
Who saw no living thing but you, this plaintiff could desave >
Now testify, and mind your eye. and answer quae prosunt
The witness minded of his eye, and answered with a grunt
“ I thought as much,” his Honor said, “be seated Ohe Jam !
Defendant loses of his case, he’ll have to pay the dam-
Ages in full or go to gaol. In signo vincit hoc !
I’ll wed this injured girl myself, if she survives this shock ”
The plaintiff did survive the shock sufficiently to say .
“ Yes i take my heart, and take the cash defendant has to pay.”
Moral.— You pay your money—the other fellow takes his choice.
The Middle Harbour Hermit.
A ROMANCE OF THE SYDNEY LAW COURTS.
more vain a fool Mr. Dailey would have the jury
to consider him.
A little irregularity arose at the close of the
defence which came up for consideration after.
Mr. Butler insisted on his right to address the jury
in reply. After objection, he was allowed to do so.
The jury retired. They were brought into court
severai times. Each time the foreman announced
tb&t there was no likelihood of agreement. After
33 hours the Chief Justice discharged them, and
the prisoner was remanded.
He was placed in the dock again on the 3lst of
February. Again Mr. Butler appeared for the
Crown, and Mr. Dailey for the prisoner. The pro-
secution and the defence kept to the former
lines. The Chief Justice, by permission of counsel,
with the view of shortening the proceedings, read
the medical evidence instead of putting the wit-
nesses a second time in the box. The jury retired
at 6 o’clock in the evening and returned at 8 with
a verdict of guilty.
Bertrand showed no agitation. He addressed
the Court in a clear, calm voice. The speech was
short, but in style and sentiment it was well-pro-
portioned and steady. He claimed that Kinder
had committed suicide, and that monetary diffi-
culties were sufficiently grave with him to supply
a motive for the act. He complained that the
Crown had not trotted this part of the case with
the lt deserved. He alleged that his sister
Harriet had perjured herself, and declared the
diary that had been put in evidence was written
by him solely to befool Mrs. Kinder. He
solemnly asserted tbat he was not serious
when writing it. He next adverted to the
judge having read aportioD of the evidence given
at a former trial irstead of calling the witnesses
before the Court. Be complained that this was
unfair and that he bad not assented to it. For the
rest, he was grateful to his counsel, and believed
the jury had acted to the best of their ability.
Sir Alfred Stephen passed on him the sentence of
death.
But there were people afoot outside. Bertrand
bad friends in Melbourne, in Queensland, in
Sydney. They drew together. They had money.
They recognised the irregularities referred to
above. They determined to fight for him. They
appealed on his behalf to the Privy Council. They
appealed to the Full Court on questions of prac-
tice. It was held that a subject of the Queen In a
British dependency had a right to appeal to Ihe
supreme tribunal of the realm in h case of life and
death. That right is still possessed hv subjects in
Canada, as was recently illustrated in the case of
Riel, the revolutionist. Subjects in Bombay and
elsewhere also possess the right. A similar right
is in force for Frenchmen in New Caledonia. The
local court may sentence a man to death, but the
sentence cannot be carried into execution until the
fiat comes from France.
In Bertrand’s case the appeal to the Privy
Council failed, the reading of the Constitution
Act being that plenary power lay with the New
South Wales Executive. But before the Supreme
Court there was a vigorous battle over two points
in Sir Alfred Stepoen’s judicial conduct. Bertrand
insisted that his assent had not been given to the
reading of the evidence. Mr. Julian Salomons,
who had succeeded Mr. Dailey in the defence of
Bertrand, maintained that the discharge of the
jury in the first trial was bad. Tnere was no
medical examination to show that any member of
the jury was incapacitated for duty, and Mr.
Salomons argued that, had not the judge dismissed
them, their verdict might have been different to
that brought in by the second jury. He illustrated
his contention. In the first trial the jury had
spent 31 or 33 hours in consultation and had not
come to a decision. In the second trial the jury
had found a verdict in two hours. According to
Mr. Salomons, there was as much likelihood that
the verdict of the first jury would be in favour of,
as there was that it would be against, Bertrand.
He, therefore, drove home the point that that
jury, had they been been kept at it, would have
fulfilled the ends of law. But he contended that
they had been interfered with. The Chief Justice
had discharged them on grounds that did not
justify the discharge. The foreman!of the jury
seid that the jury could net agree. But cases were
cited in which juries that had held out longer
came to a unanimous verdict. The point was:
was aDy member of this jury unfit to go on? A
member of the jury stated his willingness to
sw ear that be was seriously unwel). But the point
was: was he, or any other, ip the eje of the law
unfit to go on ? Did the Judge get medical
evidence ? Without this, could not a Judge dismiss
a jury after one hour as effectually as after 21 ?
The result was that a third trial was ordered.
A verdict of "Guilty” was again returned.
Sentence of death was again passed, but the Ex-
ecutive Council, lookiDg before and after, com-
muted the sentence to imprisonment for life in a
lunatic asylum.
While they were quarrelling about him in the
courts of law, Bertrand had become, even to those
who make no study of human character, actually
mad. He was forthwith sent to Parramatta
Lunatic Asylum.
There was at that time, in Parramatta, a medical
man who took great interest in following up such
evidences of mental aberralion as Bertrand dis-
played. This was Dr. Taylor. He studied the
case through. Congenial occupation was his
panacea for a mind diseased. Bertrand was an
amateur artist. In the letters to his sweetheart
he had described much of
his work in this direc-
tion. xH 6 was Preparing
some things for the forth-
coming Melbourne Exhi-
bition. He was maturing
designs of various kinds.
He had in his mind “a
naked figure of a Fijian
kneeling, holding a pearl-
shell, which is shaped like
a basket, over his head.
From this shell, droop
bunches of sea-weed. ”Dr.
Taylor thought that this
faculty might be directed
into a channel which,
without doing high art
any harm, might soothe
a mind diseased. He
therefore encouraged
Bertrand. Various paint-
ings were the result. The
matter was brought
UDder Mr. Harold Mac-
lean the N.B.W. Comp-
troller-General of Pri-
sons. This gentleman ap-
proved of Dr Taylor’s
TO n J hel7tllAu £ UBt »
18T5, Bertrana was taken
l ow p tn Darlinghurst
Gaol. The course map-
ped out by Dr. Taylor
appeared to have a good
result. Mr. Maclean per-
mitted the art-work to
go on. Bertrand, the
prisoner, wrs appointed
to assist the surgeon and
dispenser during the day,
but in intervals there
was time on his hands,
and he was permitted
to employ these intervals
in art Dr Taylor paid
for most of the meohan-
ical expense. In one case
the R.C. Church sup-
plied canvas, brushes, and
Pa|°t. Bertrand set to.
.. Th pse who appointed
the North Shore shooter
and poisoner to the gaol
hospital must have for-
gotten, or could have
never read, the story of
Thomas Griffiths Wain-
wright, who wrote criti-
cisms (admired by Charles
and Hazlitt) in
the London Magazine—
who painted most artis-
tically, and poisoned alike
grey - haired men and
young and beautiful girls
whose lives he had in-
sured. Wainwright, too,
was, after his transpor-
tation to Van Diemen’s>
Land, a disperser—at
Hobart Gaol. One day
he was told to watch in.
the prison hospital beside
th© bed of a sick pri-
soner against whom he
had a grudge. Wain-
wright’s snakish eyes kin-
dled with unearthly flie..
He was soon alone with
his enemy and patient:;
“In 13 hours”—he leant
down and hissed—" in
13 hours you will be in
hell, and I”—rolling up his
shirt - sleeves—" shall be
up to my elbows dissecting
you.” The recollection of
that grim story should
have ensured Bertrand’s
being kept away from,
the drugs.
TweDty-four paintings*
of Bertrand’s now hang
within the walls of Dar-
llughurst Gaol. Some of
them are located in the
store-room, and the re-
mainder are distributed
throug h the clerks’ offices.
Mr. Bead, the governor
of the gaol, appears to
have a paternal interest
in the fame of the ama-
teur. Ho helped fre-
quently in choosing his
colours. He sits down
before Bertrand’s •* Bt.
Andrew’s Cathedral ” or
his “Bockot Ages,’’and
draws attention to what
is best, and says nothing
about what is bad in the
canvas before him. He
knows what he is talking
about. Grave faults in
art he has no pardon
for. But he thinks, and
thinks humanly, that
there is merit in some of
Bertrand’s work. Ber-
trand worked largely from
photographs. He applied
colours to the tracings
of Landseer, Leslie, and
others. But he had special
gifts. They did not urge
him to original concep-
tionp, but to special ways of treating: conceptions
already expressed. His “Elaine,” just starts the
idea the name denotes. His “Saved from the
Wreck ”is a conception. Muscles are, howevei,
knotted and contorted in a way that reminds one
of the drawings of an anatomical student whose
aim is not art but surgery. The “ Bottle-Tree ” is
green where no bottle-tree was ever green: and
“ Autumn ”is wearying and saddening. Amongst
other things, Bertrand has imperfectly copied
“The Lion’s Bride.” “St. Andrew’s Cathedral”
gives a very good idea of the murderer’s skill. It
is more than a fair reproduction of a good photo-
graph. Imagination is displayed in his painting
of “The Gap.” The towering cliffs are seen as
they stand to-day at South Head. The ship rocks
in the open. One looks more than once at this
canvas. But it is obtruded on one all along that
none of the paintings would give Bertrand a
reputation as a cultured artist.
Bertrand maintains that these 34 paintings are
his own private property. The paint, the
brushes, the canvas, were supplied from
outside. About one a painting of the
Crucifixion—there is some dispute. This was
hung up for some time in the chapel of the gaol
where the Roman Catholics worshipped. It is a
telling portrait. The muscles of the lower limbs
are rather abnormally drawn, but the general ex-
pression is powerful and effective. Tt wss iet<-_


SUPPLEMENT TO “THE BULLETIN,” SIDNEY, N.8.W., SATUBDAT, AUGUST 7, 1886.
ANOTHER ECLIPSE!
Bulletin First, the
Rest Nowhere!
The Bulletin is the Premier Weekly Journal of all the
Colonies.
The Bulletin is the Journal of Thought and Progress.
The Bulletin is concise, energetic, and comprehensive.
The Bulletin is the wonder of Colonial Journalism.
The Bulletin is breezy and buoyant, and out of the
conventional line.
The dust of hesitation does not accumulate on the
leading articles of The Bulletin.
The Bulletin has more Clergymen on its subscription
books than any other paper in Australasia.
The Bulletin brings its big guns to bear upon exist-
ing abuses, and attacks every sort of Humbug and Cant.
The wit of The Bulletin is sharp and wholesome, its
sarcasm cutting, and its good sense abundant.
The Bulletin constantly enriches the literature of
the period with genuine and original thought, by the
best Australian writers.
From the date of its first publication its success was
assured. It had at once a dozen imitators, three of
which took as far as was possible its name. They are
now all dead, while The Bulletin continues, the one
phenomenal success in Australasian journalism, the one
completely non-local and distinctly universal Australian
paper.
The proprietary have during the last year spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings with the
latest appliances for high-class printing and the pro-
duction of illustrations, and they will shortly issue The
Bulletin in an entirely new form, printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-paid news-
paper artists Australia has ever seen. In all mechanical
respects The Bulletin will be as attractive as fine paper,
the best of type, and skilful j printing can make it.
LOOK OUT FOR THE NEW ISSUE,
Shortly to be Ready!




I mated to Bertrand that the Roman Catholics,
wherein they supplied the materials, claimed legal
rights over the painting. This claim he to the
present day rejects. But the remaining pictures
Bertrand’s mother has practically acquired, bhe
is influentially supported. Mr. Read is willing that
the paintings should go; Mr. Maclean is not averse.
It would appear that if Bertrand will go quietly
abroad into the world and will take his pictures
with him, no questions will he raised by anyone.
It Is a paltry thing to raise the question of (state
property in prison work. AH the time of a
prisoner’s work is the Btate's. But while Bertrand
was an amateur artist he was disteaser, or assist-
ant dispenser, or worked about at something,
in the gaol hospital. He did the work set
apart for him. His srt efforts were really
no more than the idle turn spent between
job and job. _
Bertrand's friends kept ever working. Every
change of Ministry these 30 years inoited a new
appeal. It was thought that if the man
could obtain release acd fly to another lard some
light would fall on his life. To that end his friends
worked. Year followed year, however, and no
release came. _ „ .
At the present time the Executive Council of
N.S.W. have the case in hand. They consider
whether Henry Louis Bertrand, now confined in
Maitland gao', should be again admitted to the
rights and privileges of a free citizen. Whatever
the decision, the outlook is serious. Is the loaded
mind of the little, vigorous, captious, envious,
criminal to be kept for ever within walls? Twenty
years are almost a-thlrd of the psalmist's life. If
he is befreed he will look a different being to
what he was 30 years ago. Then a slight, beardless
youth, he is now a stout, more than middle-aged
man with luxuriant whiskers tinged by grey. Ber-
trand will, if released, see a different world. He
will meet a sister who never ceased to work in his
interest, and. what may perhaps supply him with
philosophy for a new career, he will learn that
Mrs Kiuder returned to New Zealand and got hap-
pily married to somebody e'se.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The lack of “ oulohaw” which distinguishes
colonial politicians is giving a good deal of uneasi-
ness to the Australian Magazine. That one
member of Parliament occasionally refers to
another member of Parliament as a “shicer” is
not an encouraging sign of the times. Something
is wrong somewhere, and the Australian Mag.
has kindly gone into the matter. It has discovered
that we are suffering from the want of “ sharply-
defined grades and castes of society.” Lest this
summing-up of the case should not be clear to the
meanest understanding, the Melbourne Herald
(another aesthetic publication) has furnished a sort
of key to the above. “ To put it more plainly,”
says the Herald, “ the reason of our social
disease is the want of an upper chss, with its
wholesome traditions of good taste, and its power-
ful influence on the initiative ranks of inferiors.”
Just our sentiments. As regards wholesome high-
toned traditions which can stimulate the initiative
faculties of inferiors, we are in a bad way. What
we want are bastard nobles, “ maiden tributes,”
and things like that.
What is this disease which creeps upon us
like a thief in the night ? Destroying Angel 1 Why
art thou commissioned thus to smite down our
most promising youths? NeveithelesSi Damon I
How many hast thou mercilessly sent to their un-
timely graves? By what infernal subtlety hast
thou irreclaimably secured the victims in our
lunatic asylums? All these, and divers other
conundrums of a like blood-curdling nature have
long troubled the land, but the cute little Sydney
Echo has successfully gripped the case, and
accounts for the business thusly 1 “ The morning-
paper reaches nineteen-twentieths of its readers
and the people generally at a time when they can-
not read it. The work of the day is upon them.
They run over the paper hastily and throw it
aside. Nothing is read, only gulped down. This
is dissipation. It is as unhealthful to stuff the
mind with unmasticalcd food as it is the body.”
We had a dim suspicion that such was the case be-
cause we frequently noticed that after a perusal of
our Morning Herald, we felt that we could step
into our little grave or stand being shovelled into
a cremation-oven, as cheerfully as an Opposition
member would squat in the vacant ehalr of a
kicked-out Cabinet Minister. Beading the morn-
ing papers is assuredly dissipation of the vilest
and most ruinous description. A man might as
well fill his stomach with cuiried lobster stuffed
with old goloshes and boiled glue as ail his mind
with the chameleon leaders of the D.T., and
the Herald frequently contains descriptions of
ginger-beer and glory shivoos which would bring
a blush even to the bronzed cheek of a hurdy-
gurdy grinder’s monkey. Squelch the morning
Press, dear Ek-koe, and then suicide yourself and
you’ll confer everlasting blessings on all.
* * #
“ One half of the people who had died in
the Melbourne hospital died ffom defects in the
institution, and these defects were not to bd
remedied in any way, except by pulling the place
down. He bad no doubt that the mortality in the
portion of the hospital in which No. 18 ward wa&iQ'
eluded, would be found to be more than 30 per
oent. . . . The patients had no greater chance
of living in that ward than they would have if
their throats were cut. Three patients had re-
cently lost their lives there. One was a young
man, perfectly strong and healthy, who had only
been in one night; another was a man who had a
slight wound in his hand.” (Extract from Mel-
bourne coroner’s address to the jury, at a recent
inquest.)
The good—extremely good—city of Ade-
laide has outdone all the other cities of Australia
in the production of remarkable people. Amongst
the leading politicians there is a man who never
told a lie, and one who never, within the memory
of his oldest friend, was ever known to stumble
upon the truth. Several Soottish squatters in the
community have been known to form themselves
into an association for the purpose of offering a
loan of money to an impecunious farmers’ friend,
which loan was not to be returned until the plea-
sure of the recipient, and interest was positively
refused. Latterly some good people have had the
audacity to form themselves into an alliance for
dogging the footsteps of their neighbours, count-
ing the number of glasses of lager-beer which they
drink after business hours, and informing their
employers of the nature of the company which
they keep. It is to Adelaide that Sydney
owes the Rev. Dr. Jetferis. He tore himself
away from a sorrowing South Australian
congregation because he felt that Pitt-street'
Sydney, was his particular locality in the Loard’s
vineyard. The S.A. taxpayers are just now defray-
ing the board and lodging of a late enthusiastic
secretary totheYoung Men's Christian Association,
and several musical flnanoier3 have been added,
to the stone-breaking gang. Sacred opera is now
one of the possibilities of gaol life in the vicinity
of the Torrens. The last curiosity is, however
worth two or three ordinaries rolled into one-no
less than an Independent minister prepared to
explain away the story of the Israelites crossing
the Red Sea by showing that the company which
Moses led never were near the Red Sea at all, but
only waded across a puddle in which the waters
became very low during high winds. If it had
been anyone else but the Rev. Roby Fletcher who
started to rub out the inexplicable in the sacred
writings of Mose 3, we should at once feel inclined
to say “wade in;” but we cannot help dropping
a tear for those saints of his keeping who
are having their feelings outraged by this invasion
of a region where so many cherished beliefs have
long existed without being knocked over. Now
that the Rev. Roby has started upon his unholy
war, what will he say about the wonderful history
of Jonah’s rapid journey on board the whale, and
the careful way in which he was deposited on the
sea coast without beiEg charged even 5 per cent,
ad valorem ? Th>’s and many other incidents which
the good people who sit at the feet of the Fletcher
Gamaliel have long believed, will be cut to iiObons
if the rev. gentleman insists on explaining them,
as he has done the passage of the Rsd Sea. With
the enormous accumulation of faith amongst the
saints of the South Australian capital—faith which
has not even been crushed out by the vagaries of
religious embezzlers—we should have looked upon
Adelaide as the last place, and Roby Fletcher as I
about the last man to have refused to swallow
such a trifling improbability as that to which re-
ference has been made. The orthodox wili have
to dredge up a chariot-wheel or two before the
difficulty will be finally set at reet ?
“It has been resolved to open a subscrip-
tion In India and the colonies with the object of
presenting 1 a testimonial to H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales, in recognition of the eminent services he
has rendered in connection with the Exhibition.”
Mark this, and paste it in the ily-leaf of
your prayer-book. There was a man who, in the
days of his flesh, lived in Melbourne. He was a
virtuous man. He belonged to the Salvation Army.
Having some doubts about his soul, he—in the
company of his wife—interviewed the majestic
creature who is known as the “Captain.” The
result of the interview seemed satisfactory,
and the pious pair went home, and on the way
purchased two shillings’ worth of whisky. That
night the hallowed husband blew his blessed brains
out. The papers—that is to say the unsanctifled,
worldly, common-sense papers—made a great fuss
over the affair, and said the tragedy resulted
from “temporary insanity.” Much they knew
about it, those reporters! Very little of the
.mmaeulate dew of heaven decends upon
them! If it did, they would want to mix
it with whiskv I But this is what we want
to say. The man had made up his mind
that he wanted to quit this environment and soar
to a larger, or sink to a smaller, as the case may
be. At the same time he wanted to be on the right
side. Andlhe depended upon the Captain to lay
him on to the correct finger-post. In other words,
he simply went around to the officer in charge of
the route, gave his name, got the pass-word, and
exploded himself to Elysium. There are lots of
hard-headed men who, on reading this paragraph*
will smile. Let them see to it that they smile upon
the right sides of their mouths. This poor fellow
took the precaution beforehand to find out from
his superior officer that he was in a state of grace
and fit to be received in any celestial company.
Then he drank farewell to earth in, say, a pint of
whisky—and yet who knows but that he may have
taken this in order to fortify him against meeting
the spirits in the next sphere ? Let that be as it
may, he knew he was sure for salvation—and he
went for it like a man and a saint. A bird in the
hand is worth a clutch in the other fellow’s fowl-
“Editor Bulletin,— Sir—As N.S.W. coun-
try hospitals are at present conducted, they are
exclusively for the benefit of townspeople, loafers,
and anyone that the neighbouring' squatter may
send. The unfortunate swagman who has sub-
scribed at every shed he has been at, can t get
admittance unless he goes for a ticket to .some
storekeeper, who, having to study , civility in his
business, often does not forget to show his inso-
lence to the sick man-out of whom nothing is to
be got so far as this world is concerned. Tne first
auery generally is—‘ Why don’t you stay in your
own district?’ As though an Australian swag-
man had a district or parish like the English land-
lord’s serf. No. 3—‘What have you done with
your money?’—the whole insolent catechism
winding up with—’ There are too many calls upon
my charity;’ said charity, most likely, consisting
of a sovereign or so subscribed annually. If a
swagman really is possessed of money, and wants
to enter as a paying patient, there does not appear
to be any way of getting into a hospital without
‘ crawling ’ and grovelling before those in
authority. My idea for a remedy is, that tickets
should be issued, charge 103. or more per annum,
said tickets admitting bearer to any hospital re-
ceiving Government aid, the hospital receiving
the money to suffer the expense should the appli-
cation be made at any other hospital. This is
not anew idea, but I don’t remember seeing you
work it up, and lam sure that if practicable, it
would be of immense benefit to the working-mea
of the interior.—W, I, B,”
CASTE.
Our folks are unpolished and rude,
Quite lacking in family pride—
’Tis seldom we find ’em imbued
With delicate notions of “ side;”
In street, or in train, or in tram,
They couldn’t be easily classed
By the subtle distinctions in “ jam,”
Which constitute “ circles ” and " caste.”
Now, a workman is decent enough,
But hardly the equal in rank
Of a squatter with plenty of “ stuff,”
Or a junior clerk in a bank;
And unless sharp distinctions are made
(Which hasn't been done in the past)
’Iwixt labour, profession, and trade—
Oh! how shall we manage for “ caste ? ”
Then let us take heed and make haste
To cultivate “ swells ” of our own,
Who will cherish these traditions of taste
Which give a society 11 tone;”
Once good as his master was Jack,
But the day for equality’s past-
’Tis time we were changing our tack,
And standing (like Hindoos) on “ caste.”
In the future how nice it will be,’
When people no longer are mixed,
When Jenkins is careful to see
That Robinson’s status is fixed;
Then, as in worlds that are old,
We'll bow to our betters at last—
Mere worth shall be nowhere, but gold
Will settle the question of “ caste.”
A CHARITABLE INSTITUTION.
•* Will you walk into our death-trap ? ”
Say the surgeons so serene,
“ ’Tis the neatest little death-trap
That there ever yet has been;
The beds are most inviting,
The sheets are nice and white—
And when you get between ’em
You can bid the world good-night.”
“ We have wards to suit all parties,”
Say the surgeons so serene,
•• But the one we’re recommending
Is that special ward—eighteen. •
Kindly cut your little finger,
And select your little bed—
Then, before a week is over,
You will certainly be dead.
“ If you fracture say your elbow,
And come here to get it dress’t—
Well, your arm is amputated
And you find eternal rest;
SHE COULDN’T STAND BEING CATECHISED.
[A FACT.]
BRIDGET (who awaits engagement, to young lady housekeeper in quest of a servant ): “HOW MANY
ARE YOU IN FAMILY?”
Y.L.H.: “SIX, AND WE KEEP ANOTHER SERVANT.”
BRIDGET: “HOW MANY BROTHERS HAVE YOU?”
Y.L.H.: "TWO.”
BRIDGET (who dislikes ironing): “DO THEY WEAR MANY SHIRTS?”
Y.L.H. (clearing out): “OH, NO, THEY DON’T WEAR SHIRTS AT ALL-THEY WEAR
FRILLED PETTICOATS.”
For your blood is surely poisoned,
And so deadly is the taint
That you're here, perchance, one morning',
And, to-morrow, here you ain’t.
“ When some nasty broken chilblains
Give you trouble with your toes,
Ohl we take your leg, and, presto 1
In a moment off it goes.
It is getting on quite nicely,
Is that amputated pin,
When, as certain as the sunrise,
E rysipelas sets in.
" Then walk into our death-trap—
Harry, Tammy, Johnny, Bob—
We have instruments in plenty
And are always on the job;
’Tis the very surest death-trap
That the world has ever seen,
Make your wills and have a shake-down
In our special ward-eighteen.”
Ah! the widow mourns a husband,
Stricken down in manhood’s prime—
The mother mourns her loved one
Done to death before his time:
They are poor, and who shall heed them ?
None will hearken to their cries,
The rich man shrugs his shoulders
As each poisoned victim dies.
A MOST DESERVING CASE.
Ye sycophants of Sydney who have feathered well
your nests,
And cherish love of Royalty in grovel-eaten
breasts,
Here Is an opportunity you’ve long been looking
for
To lavish gold and silver on the idol you adore.
An object for your pity is the Monarch’s eldest
son;
He has never been rewarded for the good which
he has done
In the servioe of his oouDtry, for he gets no other
pay
Than the very paltry pittance of a thousand
pounds a day.
For years he has been toiling-oh, a scandal and
disgrace I
And none have drawn attention to this most “ de-
serving case
The son of widowed mother, Heir Apparent to the
throne—
With soarce a blessed shilling he could fairly call
his own.
While philanthropists were feigning to “ do some-
thing ” for the poor,
They left no broken vittles at this royal pauper’s
door;
Nor, miDgled with the cry of Outoast London,
have they heard
The Bitter Cry of Bertie—for he didn’t say a word.
Never weary in well-doing, still His Highness
pegged away
(With nothing to support him but a thousand
pounds a day);
He opened Exhibitions and did other jobs like
that—
And scorned to crown his labours by a-taking
round the hat.
But better late than never, some one (blessiDgs'on
bis name!
We don’t know who began it, but we love him all
the same)
Has started a subscription for this poor neglected
elf
Who worked so hard for England and got nothing
for himself.
So, sycophants of Sydney, who have feathered
well your nests,
And oherish love of royalty in grovel-eaten
breasts,
Here is an opportunity you’ve long been looking
for
To lavish gold and silver on the idol you adore.
Dip deep into your coffers, of your substance
freely give—
It is on such as you that such as Bertie ought to
live.
Don’t ask for our subscription, we are somewhat
short of pelf—
Though really we would like to glv? him some-
thing for himself.


A G p r Kfil- MO f S J^ M r E ? TmG advocate
-a-»- irrotectien to Native InSustriea will hoi*r
in the PROTESTANT HALL, CMtW a Jh Sti
Sydney, NEXT TUESDAY, August 3rd S
Messrs. J, & Toohey, J. p. Abbott, L: P
Heydpn, A, Cl. H. Hyam, E. w! O’Sub
r ; ev , ien - TT W - c - Wall, P. Hogan, N,
L ‘ A w &"• / ohll Eucas, M.L.C.j
Mr, R.O. Mr. J. P, T. Caulfield, arid
M.P., ex-Minister of
srr t f£cr e “ ieited to ,be pteM,it to
~ ,f rißhm J n ' Gf S l d , ne 7* ™ll up in strong force at
this meeting and Hfifp Hi to obtain a Protective
Tokcy, the same ae Mr. Parnell claims for Ire®
The King Street Ghost.
MAGICIAN WARD (loq.) : "YOU SEE, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THERE IS POSITIVELY NO DECEPTION. I PUT IN THIS LITTLE PROTECTIONIST ADVERTISEMENT, AND
PRESTO! IT BECOMES A GIGANTIC AND DIABOLICAL FENIAN CONSPIRACY.”


SUNDRY SHOWS
Thiatbs royal The Pearl Divers” p. 8.
Gaiety Theatre—” Fun on tbe Bristol”
New OPEra HotfsE—“ The Candidate ”
Princess Theatre—Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels „
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe. . „
Royal Standard Theatre—” Voices of the
Night”
Academy oe Music - Federal Minstrels „
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
“Nap,” at the Sydney Gaiety, on Satur-
day Dight, turned out to be one of the wildest
absurdities ever perpetrated outside Parliament
or the lunatio asylum. The author, fortunately,
has not attempted "to hold the mirror up to
Nature,” and we were deoidedly grateful for his
forbearance, for Nature, under these circum-
stances, is generally reflected as a tight-laced
female, with six broken ribs, no gizzard worth
swearing by, and a blue wart on her mythological
nose But, regarded as a healthy antidote to a
sermon, or as a means of saving the i «o of a
patient who is suffering from Jawbone A i don
the brain, ” Nap ” deserved a better house and
better fortune. It contained some valuable hints
to impeounious gentlemen with limited ward-
robes, and, compared with the rawboned agonLs
which have become so popular in Sydney, it might
really have been a little worse—not much.
* » *
Timothy Mudd, of Mud Springs Hotel,
opened the performance. He is a gentleman of
the chirpy, bull-frog persuasion, and is more chirpy
than usual owing to the expected arrival of Lord
Lovill, a nobleflian of the aidc-de-koeg order,
Who had lost his brains and is travelling
in search of them. In lieu of the mule-headed
aristocrat, however, atrive NapoLon Jinks
and H. N. Brown, two broken-down actors,
Who have left their company in the lurch and
traversed a good many miles of scenery in their
anxiety to keep a little way in front of a bailiff,
while the man with the writ and the Hebrew tose
has also been exerting himself for fear he should
be left % little behind the flying dramatists. Jinks
in his hasty retreat has quitted the scene of his
triumphs in tights, and saved nothing but the
wreck of a theatrical wardrobe. These gentlemen
having, by means of a stolen letter, ascertained
that the nobleman is not coming, resolve to per-
sonate him. and his attendant, and while Brown
explains that his lordship is very eccentric in his
dress and manner, his colleague retires behind a
twig and artayes himself as best he can for the oc-
casion. His attire consists chiefly of a kilt and a
pair of legs* and unfortunately there is more of leg
than kilti but his title covers any little deficiencies
in the tailoring department, and for a few hours
N. Jinks frisks among victuals and expensive lush
with the joyous abandon of a red-headed elephant
on an African bust. He paralyses the ladies
by his elegance and courtesy, and strikes cork-
shrew attitudes with his amazing shanks on his
introduction to Matilda Mudd and other members
of the party. But unluckily he is recognised by
the stage-struck servant girl—a former sweet-
heart—who makes things unpleasant during the
banquet, and even the liquor dispensed by a French
waiter in striped stockings (who dances about
with the frantic vigour ot a hungry mosquito)
cannot restore the happiness of the half-naked
peer. Finally the girl grows incensed when she
sees that the soi dimnt nobleman exhibits the
place where his stockings ought to be for other
fond eyes than hers to gtsza upon, and, after keep-
ing up the imposture bravely under exceedingly
adverse circumstances, Jinks is bowled out by the
treacherous Sarah, and the scene closes with a
wild scrimmage that looks like a fight between
Foley’s gang and a windmill in kilts. The last
glimpse before the fall of the curtain shows a
Highland costume and a perfect whirlwind of legs
going down on the stage, with an avalaoche of
Mudd on top, and vice is evidently played out
once more.
» ♦ »
“Left,” an Sketch by Messrs.
"Walsh and King, and “Tae Two Orphans in Hard
Luck,” closed the performance, but owing
to circumstances over which the police had
no control, we retired just as the two favourite
comedians were entering upon a serpentine frenzy
of high-kicking, and the applause of the gratified
audience followed us into the slushy outer world.
* * *
Mr. Sheridan, as the unclothed Jinks, took
most of the honours, and the easy grace with
which he acted the part of a nobleman, without
trousers, showed that humanity is not entirely of
tailor-made origin. It is certainly degrading to
suppose that the fluff which is skimmed off the
top of the sheep, and afterwards woven into
cloth, is essential to human dignity; but Mr.
Sheridan dispelled this old delusion, and proved
that a lord, so long as his legs are made of meat
and not of wood, and he has at least one garment
to wear above them, is every inch a man. Mr.
Knight Aston, Messrs. Walsh and King, and
Misses Livingstone, Fraser, and Sophie Harris,
gave some excellent songs; and the former lady
tried to make a success as Sarah Walker. Mr.
Lester was also very good as Brown alias Boodle;
and Ala has not broken his neck yet. When ho
does we will go to the funeral.
** * *
Raynor Brothers form the principal at-
traction at Sydney Academy this week, and so
long as their engagement continues, there will be
good houses at the Federal Minstrels. As they
appear on the stage they are two tall, solemn-
looking individuals, as gaunt as an Australian
boarding-house and buttoned up to the verge of
desperation, and they expend more good jokes in
half an hour than an average performer caa think
of between the time he paid his last washing-bill
and the date when he is unable to liquidate the
next one. As musicians they are first-class, but
while one plays the violin by holding the bow be-
tween his knees and bumping the instrument
against it, the other extracts excellent melody by
swinging a concertina through the atmosphere
with his right hand while he tries to pick his com-
panion's pocket with the left. The pocket, how-
ever, proves to he empty. They carry on itheir
concert, too, in all manner of unexpected atti-
tudes, and sit in impossible positions on furniture
which is not there, winding up at last with a cat a
duet, which sounds startingly like the wail of a
crew of blighted felines and which ends in a clawing
match. After this performance the dynamite scare,
which concludes the evening, seems as flat as
yesterday’s uncorked beer. It purports to have
been written expressly for the Faderals, a circum-
stance which leads us to tender these gent’emeu
our sincere sympathy, for If such a thing had been
written for us we would have been compelled to
lay out the author among the assorted poets in the
cellar. Most of these poets, we may mention, are
now dead The chief feature is Grim Death Bill,
a mysterious American with a mysterious joke,
who takes out the side wall and roof with an
Infernal machine, and such an individual should
not be permitted to be at large in a oivilised com-
munity. The singing is up to the usual high
standard, and we can only object to the ” Concert
Jubilee” on the ground that this continent is
already stuffed with too much jubilee, and until
the Queen celebrates her lJTtti birthday we don’t
really want to jubilate any more.
“ Voices of the Night,” a melo-dramatic
skeleton divided into six gaily-painted bones, I 3
still running at the Sydney Royal Standard. The
“ voices ” are of all kinds—groggy voices, husky
voices, beery voices, voices with their back hair
in wild disorder, voices that have not washed
themselves for a fortnight, and voices that are
suggestive of a parrot ordering a tripe and onion
supper from underneath six feather beds. The
voices are in partnership, too, with all kinds of
human breath, not always of the most cow-like,
hut apparently the audience are satisfied, and that
is the principal thing in this world. The lobster
still continues to climb into pl&ces where no
rational lobster has any right to go, and the ser-
pent is as lively as if he had a hot coal tied to his
tail. So long as the tree-climbing fish and his
coadjutor can keep on their legs, or rather on the
place where their legs should be, the pieoe will i
probably be a success, and if the author could only |
introduce a desperate combat between a peri-
winkle and an oyster it would be an additional
attraction of no mean order.
** * «
Almost everyone has some idea of the
sufferings of a Parliamentary candidate.
A flt example of human woes;
Early ne cnmei and Jate be goes.
He grebts the mother with courtly grace,
He kisses the baby's dirty face,
and then he mutters, “ Confound the old woman
and her brat,” as he retire* in disgust. “ The Can-
didate,” at Sydney Opera House, however, has
even a worre experience than the average, being
weighed down by his mother-in-law, and by a
truly horrible missionary, who is perpetually
stretching his large cold feet in the drawing-room
at Oldacre House. This individual suffers from a
rush of flesh to the stomach, and when he leans
back In his favourite attitude, in an easy chair, his
pedal extremities loom up and obsoure one side
of the apartment. The llat-footed apostle, too, is
always putting his boots in high places, as if to
oall attention to the fact that they enclose the
hoofs of an evangelist. As to the mother-in-law,
she is an icy, objectionable female—as cold as a
dog’s nose, and as stiff as a defunot shark. Pro-
bably the author found it impossible to fill her
place with any other relative, but of late we have
seen almost too much mother-in-law on the stage.
But despite this drawback, Mr. Justin M’Carthy’s
comedy is one of the best we have seen since
last time, and it deserves, and will doubtless have,
a suooessful run.
*# ® •
Ladies first. Lady Osterley, the formid-
able mother-in-law, is an aristocratic and fleshy
female who! runs a peers’ preservation sooiety and
takes a deep interest in the Rev. Barnabas
Goodeve’s mission to Fiji. She also runs the
whole menagerie at Old acre Housa, and Lord
Launcelot Oldacre Is reduced to all sorts of ex-
pedients to get an occasional holiday. He is in
search of an excuse of some kind when he is in-
vited to contest Northampton in the Conservative
interest, and the problem is solved by the de-
spatch of his secretary, a Violent Radical; to per-
sonate him, while the nobleman departs to take a
look at the flowing bowl and study in London the
anatomy of the ballet. Rut the secretary is met
at his destination by a reception committee
about] 10,000 strong ,who want to know what kind
of brick he prefers to be hit with, and he only
saves his employer from being murdered by proxy
by falling back on his own sentiments and pledg-
ing the Tory candidate to abolish every thine under
the sun. He shouts tea and shrimps for OdOO elec-
tors, falls in love under his assumed name with a
mysterious widow, and is returned triumphantly
by a crowd who shriek themselves hoarse with
crying "To h—i with the Lords 1 ” He misies Lord
Oldacre, however, on his return journey, and that
unfortunate man arrives home to find his mother-
in-law on the rampage like a committee of one
lunatic with a mad-dog in the chair, and opening
love-letters from the Northampton widow. At
first he declares he has been defeated, and theD, on
the secretary’s appearance, makes frightful efforts
to explain that this was only a poetic way of
describing his victory. Tbea he finds out that he
is pledged to abolish himself and everybody else.
aLo tQat he tus a Jove-affa r in hand, and a bill of
about £SOOO to pay, £IOO of which have been spent
in presen sto the widow. The ob‘n]ai ve mission-
ary grows exoited and puts his foot down, and
the rest of the company fall over it, while a wild
domestic cyclone tears up connubial happiness by
the roots At the end, of course, the mother-in-
law is bowled out—she always in under such cir-
cumstances; the missionary meets a similar fate,
and “the Candidate” retires from pol,tic3 in
disgust.
* * *
Mr. H. St. Maur makes his first appearance
in Australia as the suffering candidate, and plays
the part admirably, while Mr. Redwood ss the
secretary, and Mr. Greville as the missionary who
tuffers from cold feet, divide the rest of the male
honours. Miss Powys, as Lady Dorothy Osterley,
is also paying her first visit to the colonies, and
proves that she is fitted for something better than
to be harried by a fiendish old mother-in-iaw. Miss
Watt-Tanner took the part of that untamed rela-
tive, and it seemed to come naturally to her. We
would prefer that she were someone else's mother-
in-law than ours. As for the other ladies, we
promise them the notice they deserve next week,
provided this planet continues till then to revolve
peacefully on its axis.
»# * «
Why didn’t Madame Boema siDg the
“Quis est Homo” duet with Miss Christian?
There has been no such good duet-singmg since
the charming contralto sang the same duet with
lima df Murska.
** * »
The Buffaloes at Sydney Prinoess are still
going at their starting pace, and do not seem up
to date to have moulted a feather, or, to use a
more suitable simile, to have turned a hair. And
the audiences are as satisfactory and satisfied as
erst. We go, Hugo, they go, and universal joy is
the result of the pilgrimage. There now! That
is what we call a nice fat little notice.
Prof. Geo. Chainey, from America, reminds
us of the pictures of Beecher. His face is not
pretty, but massive. He wears his hair down on
his shoulders, like Samson, our AUpreis, Oscar
Wilde, and otner great and good men; and he has
an orotund voice that we envy. We couldn’t
quite get the hang of what Mr. Cnainey’s belief is,
from his lecture on the Ideal Man and Woman,
but as he is going to lecture 25 times more, no
doubt we’ll know everything before he has done.
Only he tells us that sentiment is not all nonsense
in this work-a-day world. The artists, sculptors,
scientists, inventors, who chase the ideal which is
higher than their thought, often catch the real,
and it is toeir names that become great in the
world. To be an ideal man, or even nearly one,
you have to put cleanliness before godliness, not
after it, for the perfect health of body affects the
spirit, and the greatest purity in both nears the
ideal. Breeding is so neglected, says Chainey,
that many sons of the aristocracy are neither men
nor monkeys, and so in America anew name has
been invented for them, and they are called dudes.
An ideal man must bs intellectually free, and have
his own ideas, not be the slave of a stupid, fashion-
able creed. But Freethought must not be con-
founded with Nothought. My lectures, observed
the orator, will not be keyed to the prevailing “ no
faith ” of these times, but to this new iaitb, which
—though it contains no definition of the Infinite—
contains the potency and promise of better thiDgs
in store for humanity, and prompts us to open our
hearts to the warmth and power of that which is
greater than our thought. As before stated, we
don’t entirely get the hang of this, but it *eems
quite unobjectionable, and there is nothing in the
new programme to cause the gentlest to blush.
***
“ The Pearl Divers,” a play professing to
be an adaptation from the French, was the attrac-
tion In the Sydney Theatre Royal last Saturday.
It was heralded as a story of the sea. There ap-
peared to be plenty of material to ' all upon, but
the water part was small in quantity and shallow
in its effect upon the imagination. The play has
indeed no right to the title it flaunts either in its
original language or in that of its adaptation.
There is one diving scene, and there’s an end of it.
The thunder storm in the London street was
peculiarly erratic. The rain came with a swish
that, could it only have been fathered on to the
elements,would have supplied a valuable argument
in favour of desiga in Nature. The man who
made the thunder for the occasion should stand
in Hyde Park some day and listen to the original
manufacturer entertaining the universe. He
would recognise that the harmony is altogether
different.
* * ♦
The play in itself is slapped up. The work-
man crammed in his situations anyhow. The
result i 3 a rapid succession of badly-connected
tableaux. But there is merit here and there.
(Continued on page 30,)
The MODERN ARTFURNISHING
■WAEEH OVSE
JONES, LAWSON BROS. ftoo,
POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenseum Club.
These recently-erected magnificent pile of buildings have been fitted
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE,
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small BuildiDgs, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
The O lality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a Minimum,
tvs the arrangements entered into by J°NES, LAWSON HROS., and CO with the £.e diDg Manu-
facturers of Great Britain hud the Continent are of such a naturo that they are enabled to offer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORdEK WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
ONES. LAWSOS BROS, and CO. offer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at
Low PRIC4B, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
leason of great cost ,uom enjoying suen Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Raoma.
\partmenishave been spec ally flt'ed up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, varl,as Btj les being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
mm lONS FURNISHED
ths Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contrast or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for tho reception cf intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Eurniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Oasileraagh-streof.
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Place.
Sr icefield. EHIII
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree oe Charge.
/Q
C D
Ot
i'O
UO
■ i
L
<3
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s, 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d.,1256d
EDWARD HORDED* AND fONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
X B.—Orders from tha Country will receive immediate and careful attention.


ARTHUR MARTIN <£ COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon la the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
SAny enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
jlonles or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
artin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Hor Majesty tha Quean,
H.R.H. the Prince of Waies.
H.M. the King J of the Netherlands,
e
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MAROARET STREET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with lliieumatic Gout, Tic-
Dqloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those oxcruoiating Pains when one
hottlo of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOrIbLIG-HT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
E. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
l3l George-etreet, only.
C. LOUGENAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes Lord Carrington,” “Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” “ Our Girls,”
k Boston Bride,” and our “ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos.— “ Boston Navy,” "Prince Imperial,”
"Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received In stook. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Nervous debility.
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain TreAtMeXt, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco. Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting in
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes .to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effact a oure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SF.RF.ET, SYDNEY,
BRALIA
TREATMENT
Circular sent free on application.
a£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
eostiveness, we oannotcure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction'
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is, For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C, WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumhagq,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headaohe,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application,
gold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO*
sdf
Eerfect
JRITYI
JUDSON’S “PERFECT PURITY” FILTERS
ARE THE ONLY RELIABLE FILTERS.
HIGHEST AWARDS—Diploma of Merit, Diploma of Honour and Silver
Medal, Inventions Exhibition, London, 1885.
CATALOGUES POST FREE.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
g
HIS LITTLE JOKE.
JUGGINS (looking down at his feet): “FEARFUL MUDDY, AIN’T IT? I’VE GOT A LOAD
FOR A MULE ON EACH BOOT.”
MUGGINS: "TWO LOADS FOR A MULE, EH? AIN’T THAT TWICE AS MUCH AS YOU
CAN CARRY, JUGGINS?”
Giticura
VvAV.V
// wr
#
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
aik\
Scrofula on Neck*.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticnra, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp ef Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Mashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticnra Remedies are the oaly real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 ceatsj Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottie.
Prepareb bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical! Cd,, Boston, U.S.A.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments I
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, 50 per cent, less tha
Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 0/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/, 60,
45/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 36/-
0
&
ACCORDEONB a t7/«.i»/6 12/6.15/, 17/6,
HUUUnULUIIO 21/-. *5/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6
Specialty : The miniature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciaty: Old Copy Violin, with case, how
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS,
40/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 130/-
to £lB.
Specialties : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new "Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “ Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker ... 50/-
THE SYMPHQNETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-,
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
■he “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
j'-W Bras 3 and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
C arionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
k’statoiMOp
All instruments careful, acked and forwarded
to any part of the cies.
LOUIS SIHOHSEN,
Manager.


dfg
EBIU
oO^ S
o^i°
Verv
'nutritious
Detained and
'digested when all
'OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED. AT ALLCHEMISTS IM
10* 20ozB0TTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCES T
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes oan possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Howlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUXONIA is a beautifully
Eure, delicate, and fragrant toilet Dowder, and
as lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Hedwood, Ph D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suites for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Pour sizes.
A«k any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a suplply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAE FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
edualled for imparting a beautiful-finish to
starched linen.
Bold by all Grocers and Storekeepers .at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.' Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
I, BUTTBRFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Hilzien GKLoss
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth oea-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they oan be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst ferm of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
lmm ediate relief.
134 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—" TONIC NERVINE.’*
A BABB, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB lor Ner-
▼oua and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonio and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes *nd gives vigour <• the whole system
Price, 4s. 61. Sold everywhere. Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney, N. S. W. ;
London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a eountry in the civilised wqrld
where the healiDg virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
|3F* Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil &Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain i n flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritiva properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most uerfect Emulsion over
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
CUTTING BOTH WATS.
MISTRESS ( loq): “YOU OUGHT TO RUB THE KNIVES BOTH WAYS, BRIDGET, SO AS TO
BRIGHTEN BOTH EDGES.”
BRIDGET: “AH, BUT YOU SEE, MUM, IF I DID THAT NOW, IT WOULD SHARPEN
BOTH EDGES AND THEN YOU AND THE YOUNG LADIES WOULD BE CUTTING
YOUR MOUTHS AT DINNER.”
Wolfi’s Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for Wolfe's.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts ss agent generally
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address3l3 George-street,
second floor.*
My medical experience satisfies me that Wolfe’s
Schnapps is an excellent stimulant.
Marie Brizard!
Important to Mothers SNurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant S
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bolie» and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed {upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile lis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
11 CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD’’ is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
. When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTJNE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every Camp
Chest.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri*
cans all drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizardl
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, In respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and With regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, Whieh is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
It is impossible to remain long sick or out
of health where American Co.’s Hop Bitters are
used. See another
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only genuine
Schnapps— Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
WHA
WILL comince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon your mind this repeatedly proven tact._ Thous-
ands are using it, 1
it is a medicine
even more than
d
nnd all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. My
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
the machinery of your
CONVINCE
body into working order.
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot-of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the window, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of , 00 ‘’ d -
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell's Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
If you suffer from any of these affections. ti'y Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once. . ,
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; thatithasnoequalasa BLOOD PURIFIER,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LlVER—the great organs of the body-
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Noth. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’sTITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO,, Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
Newest Invention'- Greatest Novelty.
THE Y*N PATENT
DIAGONAL SEAM
COESET.
Patented in England aDd on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Pellet says A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated t®
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very-
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.
The Queen says“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets, Londwzn
International Exhibition, 1884
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
fgd
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of FAT STOCK at HOMEBOSH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 CAfc TLEREAGH STREET.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fmgiance.
Thref. Gold Metals—
PATHS.IB7B, CALCUTTA,IBBI, .
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far >urpastes me numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use.
Of all Dealers, anrl of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden
Lyre.”
■XTERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY
_i3i STRENGTH. —A Gentleman, having tried
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered
simple means of cure, will he happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address—“ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.


There are vigour, novelty, and even passion in
some parts. Where the villain is overpowered in
the lunatio asylum, the excitement generated on
the stage honestly pervades the audienoe. The
cast is large, and the acting all round is meri-
torious. In the case of some of the characters the
aoting rises to excellence. Miss Agnes T omas
and Mr. Beck again appear, and in stronger form
than in the preceding play. Mr. J. H. Rain for i’a
Chadbrook may be a careful study, but it would
be ungenerous to judge an actor by bis manage-
ment of such a part. Mr. H. S Jerdan looked and
spoke with much freshness in the early part of the
play, and Mr. Herbert Flemming, the companion
diver, was hearty and capable throughout.
* * *
Mr. George Leitoh devoted himself to
pourtrayiDg a meddling lunatic named Thibbets.
When Mr. Leitch arrived in Melbourne some years
ago, we thought the character in which he then
appeared, that of a rather wise old man who un-
consciously did silly things From that night we
lost Mr. Leitch. On encountering him on Satur-
day last, the changes Time effects were made
apparent. Mr. Leitch now plays the part of a silly
young man who unconsciously does wise things,
lhere is no doubt this actor possesses abilities of
a worthy kind. For a combination of humour
and pathos he has many advantages. His voice
is thin, fine, sweet, and flexible. His bearing and
manner are true for picturing gentleness, timidity,
or pitiful helplessness. But when he writes his
own play, he gives himself a part that is contemp-
feeble. When he adapts (if this be an
adaptation), he gives himself a part that is con-
temptibly feeble also. He goes on letting old
jokes dribble through tha house. He goes on
making people wince at his attempts to he funny.
Why does not Mr. MaoMahon, who looks to be a
zealous man, cut the jokes out of his partner’s
tOPy ** * «•
It was not, as stated by the Sydney Sun-
day ,Times, “Mr. Justin M'Carthy, M.P., whose
fame as a novelist and wit of the first water be-
trayed the parentage,” who wrote “ The Candi-
da*®. It was the novelist s son, who, though a
M.P. and possibly a wit of the first water, has not
yet gained fame as a novelist.
* * * «»
The Japanese Village has caught on in
Melbourne, and threatens to become the leading
mashing-market of the city. A temporary build-
ing has been erected for the show, and things
already ook quite homely and settled-down-like.
It is a distinguishing trait of the Japanese that
they always identify their surroundings with
themselves. We studied the habits of this ancient
people in the Mikado, and speak with authority.
The newness and instability of the Melbourne
escapes notice. The villagers have im-
parted to it an air of mellowness peculiarly their
°T°- oa i. e of t* l6 artisans (particularly the man
with the shaved head, who is generally believed to
be a king in his own country) seem as though they
had been born in their present village, and recked
not of the turmoils, trials, and vexations of the
world outside. Looking at them as they patiently
pe £, a T a^ at something which could be done
r « “® r .^terat Birmingnam in a thousandth part
of the time, one is apt to think: “It were good
to be a Japanese.” Evidently they have an
inner life w;hich they keep all to themselves
p ure guiieiess existence into which sin entereth
not. This refers to male Japs. The youDg ladies
are even more frivolous than they were in Sydney
Ihe drawing-room, or boudoir, or kitcnen in
which four dreams of beauty make tea for the
barbarians has been irreverently nicknamed the
™t r « v, There J s A oavour of faddiness about it
whioh has made it the fashionable resort of Mel-
bourne. An idea prevails that the Japanese yarns,
whicn these little darlings always appear to bn
whispering to one another, would be quite too
much for us in an English translation. When
they get to the funny parts they glance obliquely
at the young men with a “ would-you-like-to-
know-all-about-it” expression, which is exces-
sively tantalising. Tnis part of the show alone
was always worth the two-bob charged for admit-
tance. without mentioning the temple, in which
anyone is at liberty to worship without paying a
extra * Vllla K p > anyway, will boom
in Melbourne as it boomed in Sydney. •• Old
Jappy ’ has become a fashionable term of endear-
ment in the Victorian capital.
“ Miss Emma Wangenheim, the Australian
prima donna, will shortly appear in new songs (in
London) songs written and composed especially
for her, says an English paper. Tremendous!
** * *
So Mrs. Moss is trying to turn “Jack”
Want out of his theatre-box at Sydney Reyal
Some people show no consideration to the wants
of others. But in this instance the law triumphs
and our Attorney-General holds his own.
♦ * w
“Silver King ” is filling Melbourne Royal
as well as it did three years ago Many of the old
people are in their old places Phil. Day once more
merges himself into the character of Jacques, and
Titberadge again presobea “agreat morai lesson ”
in tbe chief part as Silver King. The last-named is
at his \ ery best. We have seen Ihe drama played
in three cities—London, New York, and Mel-
bourne. The Silver Kings were Wilson Barrett.
Osmond Tearle, ana G. F. Titberadge-these
taree. And the greatest of these ii Titheradge.
Mudgee is known to fame for more things
,L ts oniy Taylor. An English paper finds out
tnat its strong point is grammar. In support of
this assertion it quotes a passage from the address
to Lord Carlogton:—“ We regret that the sever
and protracted drought with which Almight
J. rovi fence has been pleased to afflict us, in con
junction with the rest of the colony, will preven
you from viewing the surrounding country, pos
sessed as it is of many beauties.” And yet the
say Mudgee did not deserve a railway I
ECZEMA AND BAD SORES.
Your Cuticura has done a wonderful cure fo
me more than two years ago. Not a sign of it
reappearance since. It cured me of a very bac
eczema which bad troubled me for more than
twenty years. I shall always speak well of Cuti
Cura I sell a great deal of it.— Frank C. Swan
liruggisr, Haverhill, Mass.
I had a dozen bad sores upon my body, and tried
a 1 remedies I could hear of and at last tiied you
cuticura Kemedies and they have cured me.
Jno. Gaskilu, Hebron, Thayer County, Penn.
That Wolfe's Schnapps is a medicine contain
ing great virtues is undeniable.
The Evening News asks —“ Why is Epsom
salts omitted from the schedule (of the new
taxes) ? The reason is obvious; there is now no
demand for it, as 1 h 8 public read the Peeress’ Letter
once a fortnight.
Mario Brlzardi
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
oCHNAinPs it you would avoid bilious attacks.
A lot of Australian pilgrims have been
. They think a Place that
returns Henoiker Heaton is worth hunting up,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments. You cannot err by using it.
The Sydney D.T. challenges the Jennings
Government to ‘‘go to the country.” The
Government, doesn’t want to go, but the D,T.
$° e J: The French, we remember, wanted to go to
Berlin. They ultimately did go-handouffed as
prisoners in railway-trucks.
There is no better judge for what is geod than
Germans—They always drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The new Salisbury Ministry—a crowd of
noodles.
Less than one six-hundredth of the cele-
brated Mount Morgan gold mine was publicly
auctioned up North the other day, and realised
enough to make the value of the whole claim a
million. Mr. Tozer, of Gympie, hss written to the
papers some peculiar particulars re the Mount
Morgan case. A Mr Bond applied for a claim, but
the warden rejected it on the ground that his ap-
plication was for over one man’s ground (50 ft.)
H. n ing enquiries, however, it has been found
that the Mount Morgan syndicate, consisting of
six names, but really only three people, had lodged
their applications for 10,900ft., or 1793ft. per man
these claims were registered on different days.
Gae of the members registered for 2000ft. in his
ovn name, and on another day another member
took up 2000ft. and was registered for it by the
warden, whilst, a third member got himself down
+?/ a A r *, fl0 °, f 480Oft • or little short of a mile—a
syndicate aim f ° r one nuru 11-18 nice to he a
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
peat speech (at Orange) in which the
N.&.W. Premier so effectually chaffed ‘‘that dis-
tinguished person, Sir H. Parkes, smacks very
strongly of Mr. DHley. J
The Riverine Recorder advises the mem-
bers of the Balranald band to “ throw a little
more music U sympathy and expression ” into their
playmg. This is a Judas hind of adviee. If they
follow it, the members of the Balranald baDd will
probably be thrown into the Murrumbidgee,
Marie Brizard I
Brandies and Whiskies are not at all as well
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s ScuNAprs.
A BILIOUS HE4.DACRE
Is easily cured if you use the riarht medicine,
which is Dr. Bill's Bitter?. The headache is so
very uncomfortable and the medicine so cheap'
do not delay, but call at your druggist’s and get
a bottle.
Marie Brizard 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Buy original un-
opened bottles of the only genuine Schnapps.
“ Small boy : “ I say, Jimmy, ma’s jest
got a new churn—ono o' dem boss two-minute
cburns, what brings de butter in no time.”' Jimmy:
“ Is it painted blue?'' Small Boy: “Yes.” Jimmy:
‘‘Cog-wheel on de outside, an’ a crack? Small
Boy: “That’s it.” Jimmy: “Did the feller what
sold it to yer ma have wart? on his necks ?” Small
Boy: “Yep.’ Jimmy (earnestly): “ Bcotty I feels
sorry fer you. Ma got one jest like it las’ week.
D’ ye know why 1 wasn’t statin’ all day Satur-
day ?” Small B>y: “No.” Jimmy: “I was a-
churnin' and oouldn t show off my new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit bought from Summerfleld and
Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335 aLd
237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Marie Brizard I
To invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolfe's Schnapps.
She said : “ I will never marry you till
you are worth a thousand pounds ” Two months
afterwards, meeting him. she asked him how be
was getting on. “ Well,” said he, in a hopeiul
tone, “ I have saved £4 Is. 3341.” Ste, dropping
her eyelashes and blushing, lemarkea; “ I think
that’s near enough, Roberc.” Prosperity in the
shape of a handsome bequest enabled Robert to
get a luxurious homo and select some very beau-
tiful China and glass both for u&e and ornament.
Pour hundred and two and four, George-street, is
the address of Messrs. Bray Bros , the importers of
latest styles in dinner, tea, and toilet sets, and all
varieties of earthenware, china, and glass*
Marie Brizard I
Womth’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
Wolfe's Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskies
li/. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
V ve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.IL Gin, &0., &c.
/rO N UM E N T S
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
. Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Margaret-street, Wyn ward-square, Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING
FLERINS’S
RELIABLE
uses.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, BYDNEY
f
FLESaiNGS
I WAGGONS
and
Harness,
l Specially Imported ]
to suit -
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS, ,W
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call ardlnspect.
ORGANS !
V SOLE ,AQENTB~irOR THE
“SMITH."
BRUCE ft MASSEY,
IS7 Piit-st f Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
iST* Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
O'?
Ik
WN
OTS
m
15/-
$
.
mo
\V
m
ft
TrA MWA y t AHD SAL £ fioOMS
Cfjcuujm* .1
Street r I
fg
sauce;
& pfeIRRINS
In consequence of Imitations Of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE tv hie h are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request 'that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle,
bears their Signature thus—
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
LE ii n an , d p ERRINS Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
' a n l(^ esa } e f or Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse - and
±llac hinell, London, Sr’c., dttc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents : Monthfiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney,
df
The ■•LOUIS"
1 "
a J he strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand intermmab'e
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on,
application. *
gf
$
c*
AC
V-
oor
S'* v
<X'
S
Shoe
Ba
252 a
George
Peafe
Idle
gjtPL Jfarcivurh
Osy&-0
ZAAR
S*
Sydjvey
g
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakei,
JL Mltle Colllns-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.


AUSTRALIANA.
The men who found Kim barley “gold-
field ” are now all at King’s Sound. One of them
is butchering, another has joined the police, a
third is shearing, and the fourth has gone to claim
the reward,.. .A protest against “ Sabbath sailing ”
is the latest form of mania in New Zealand. A few
excited cranks are anxious that every steamer
should stop short at midnight on Saturday and
drift about for 24 hours in order to keep the Day
of Rest unbroken...'.One Chinese firm alODe will
next year grow on the Daintree River (Q.) 200 tons
of rioe ....A Sydney "unemployed” meeting last
week wm adjourned for want of spokesmen. A
crowd laokiDg orators must have been pretty
honest. .. .The Silver Age reporter, in his account
of th« Broken Hill races, says that "nothing
serious oeourred. The rider of one horse frao-
tnred his collar-bone, and another horse broke its
neek.”...LieutenantCreswell, who is still searching
for traces of Leichhardt, Is said by the Carpentaria
Times to be with his party on the Tablelands near
Creswell Downs On the “ yellow-agony” ques-
tion the Northern Territory Times writes:—“At
12 hours' notioe we could now procure 500 idle
Chinese In Palmerston at a wage of 2s. per day,
and many are almost starving in the township....
Father Huggard’s conviction for abduction at
Bourke, N.8.W., has been upheld, and he is ordered
to appear for sentence..... A Chinese leper has been
quarantined in Bundaberg (Q.). The dootors are
trying to cure him by keeping away Trouble at
Cooktown. The belle of the local L.O.L. was
“ green ” enough to confess her Nationalls'io ideas
to two true blue mashers, who thereupon “ cleared
and left her.” Isambert, the democratic mem-
ber for Rosewood (Q.) proposes to poll-tax all
foreigners working in Queensland. Five pounds a
skull on the latest yellow agony from Borneo, the
Javanese.,.. The Coleraine (Vic.) Albion declares
that a settler in the Kowree district possesses two
mongrels, half-cat and half-rabbit, the oat-half
being (of course) in front. These animals will
probably purr on the hearth-rug through the
Winter, and in the summer take to the open air
with their rabbit-half uppermost Frank Ful-
larton, son of the Melbourne harbour-mastec
suicided by injeoting prussic acid with a hypo-
dermic syringe. He had suffered terribly from
neuralgia, and was mad, for he wrote:—"Let me
be buried with my underclothes on, for they are
niee and warm; also my socks, let them be left on
me... The abortionists at work again in Melbourne.
▲ well-known woman who seems to have often
esoaped the noose, has been committed for trial;
her alleged victim was a young and beautifu 1 girl,
who had gene astray... The No. 1 North Phoenix Co.
dympie (Q.), paid 75 dividends from February,
1878, to October, 1885, amounting to £204,080
Altogether they crushed 52,336 tons of stone
yielding £309,491, or an average of loz. 9dwt. 2grs!
per ton. The claim was originally held by eight
miners. ...Charters Towers (Q.) goes solid for Irish
Home Rule.. ..The Queanbeyan Council recently
received a letter of apology from a gentleman who
was sick, and in reply requested him to send a cer-
tificate from some “respectable” householder—
A French man-of-war has steamed at night through
Port Phillip Heads, past fortifications and all,
without a solitary soul in Victoria knowing itl
The Cabbage-Gardecers are a great and warlike
people...." Sir” Sam Griflith heads the flunkey
testimonial to Wales in Brisbane with the maxi-
mum allowed—two guineas—The followers Of
Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, are sacrilegiously
ploughing up some land which was stolen from
them by the Anglican Church, and though their
leader has been “ ran in,” the trouble seems likely
to last. The Church, of course, won’t stand any
nonsense from a lot of niggers and will see them
all on the gridiron of Gehenna before parting with
a single yard.
BEFORE AND AFTER.
“ Will you have a plate of Icecream, dear?” he
asked. “No, thank you, I never eat cream In the
winter,” she sweetly replied. “Well, do try a
dish of those delirious Oysters, won't you, pet,
he continued. “ No, Alfred, they are so dear.
I thought I was the only thing that was dear.’
“ Oh, Alfred, I must go home.” “lam so sorry,
he said. “Oh, pet, I know what you want. Let,
me order a bottle of that famous St. Louis Lsger
Beer? ’ Her beautiful blue eyes lighted ud. Just
a tint of crimson appeared upia her lovely face
When she could breath easy, she said, “ Ob, Alfred,
do.”
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe’s SchnapHs testify its intrinsic merits.
Marie Brizard I
Some one says, “ A good laugh is sunshine
in a house.” That's very pretty, but is it always
so ? Did it ever seem very sunshiny in your
house when you have commenced to laugh at your
wife, who has hit her finger with the tack-hammer
while telling her mother that the last boy 's ault
she bought for 10s. 6d. from Summerfleld and
Comnany, Ths Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and
237 Pitt-street, Sydney, was the nicest-fitting and
cheapest she had ever purchased.*
The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener and curative on earth. Hop Bitters
made only by Amorican Co. See
Wolfe’s Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
Marie Brizard!
To direot attention to the large stock of
our dinner and tea ware is hardly necessary, as It
is generally known we oarry a most extensive
variety of all kinds of China, glass, and earthen-
ware, but It Is not so well known that inspection
visits are welcomed whether intent on purchasing
or not. Bray Bros, show-rooms, 402 and 404 George-
street.*
A man named Tennyson has been lynched
in Texas. As he had only stolen seven horses
and killed two men, it Is suspected that the
lynchers were labouring under the mistaken im-
pression that their victim was the TenDyson who
recently wrote “ Britons, Hold your Own,” and
negleeted to wear one of those stylish £3 3s. suits,
to measure, that have made the name of Sum-
merfleld and Company, merchant tailors, 235 and
237, Pitt-street, Sydney, a household world
throughout the land.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, and is highly recommended by medical men.
Marie Brizard!
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DFVHI6 BEAR, Brass & Nlckel-platod SHOP FROHTS,
.Hydrant*, Ship and Home Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
|fT Brass and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and GUrdw* Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON'S "FLUSH-OUT,'' "YALTA” & "PAN” CLOBBTS, "VACUUM” WATBB-WASTE
PKEYBNTHKS, See.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent A/r Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Bas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BOH ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
"O OBIRT BUTCHER k 0.0.
■*" (Late William Long).
p- WTNI AND SPIRIT MERCHANT
664 GEORGE STREET,
opposite the town hall, stdnet
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
"U
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
Wholesale saddlers, and saddlers
IRONMONGERS,
125 YOKK ST., SYDNEY.
JEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
JMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as fellow*S EVEN PER CENT on
Axed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
ami UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
■CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
’Branob, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-at.
J. V. WARES AM, Manager.
Listen to Your Wife .
The Manchester Guar limn', June Bth, 1883, says :
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking on the woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons and great masses of May
blossoms ! ! ! “ There was an interesting group.
It included ohc Who had been a “ Cotton spinner,”
but was now s®
Paralyzed ! ! !
. That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to nay ease.
I was first AJt-taeked twelve years ago with
“ Locomoter Ataesj/- ”
(A paralytic disease of nerve fibre narely ever cuied)
and was for several years barely able to get about.
And for the las* Fire years not able to attend to
my business, although
Many things have been bane for me.
The last experiment being nerve stretching.
Two years ago I was votedhito tire
Home for Incurables ! Near Manchester, in May,
1882.
lam no “Advocate” ! “For anything in the
shape of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many objections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to try Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her —
Consented ! !
I had not quite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come ever me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. On Sunday morning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, “ I was sure
I could
“ Walk !
So started aeross the floor and back.
I hardly knew how to eontain myself. I was all over the
house. lam gaining strength each day, and can walk quite
safe without arty
“Stick!”
Or Support.
I am now at my own house, and hope soon to be able to
«am my own living again. I have been a member of the
Manchester
* Royal Exchange ’
Ear nearly thirty years, and was most heactfcy congratulated
on going in the room on Thursday last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Man Chester,(Eng.) Dec. 24,1883.
Two years later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers ! !
If when yon ©all for American Hop Bitters (see green twig
•/ Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
bottleJ. the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuge it and shan that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he hag taken your money foi anything lese indict him
for the fraud and gue hjm for damages for the swindle, and
” e will pay you liberally for the conviction.
Never Travel Without It;
Wanted in Every Honse.
f
EFFECTUA LLY DESTROY!
ALt NOXIOUS INSECT!
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSDUITOES,
COCKROACHES.AA'HA* AND IS
AT'TFTE'SAME TIME QUItE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG!
FOWLS OR OTHER;
ANIMALS
gf
y
mb
CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS!
WHOLESALE ' \
rt
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’3 PILLS
tit A
as
PATENT
LLS
PI
£
4*!
v:
©
.Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pa ; n
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite., short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &o. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done i’t in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the syste-:-n. If taken according to the directions
given with each hox they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of he&lth the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatie and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of brea thing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort te those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecbam’s
Cough Bills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution'. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to eacli box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.ll.—Full directions are given with each box.
Tha Haw Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
lira Bros., & Co.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding y Low Price of £5 Iss
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furntture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON"” BROS., Sc CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
m
WM
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-sfraatp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Eyery Instrument
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING A Co
856 Georve-atreet, Sydney.
•oojj sSod songop^PQ
'ahncias ‘xhhhis xua sog-'anvoirv 3100 a
SJ3OWAO mmiim
%V AVOIA no
pumrpuooag pan SHBimOA UUU (s
poguuqoxg; jo ‘p[og ‘qqgnog
•BMQoa ’saooa smoqb
WILLIAM BULLARD’B GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Leaae, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Disoount 25 Der oent. reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m- sic at
the old prices can now be had fer One Pound This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services Ac.
Part Music. Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse : Books
suitable for prizes for hoys and giris; Nautical
v* orks, Books on Sngineering and Surveying
Dictionaries, &o ; ana a choice library of Relll
gious work«, by standard authors.
JAfANESE BftONZBS, Wall Hangings. Em.
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Travs.
and Tea Trays -nays*
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully Jow prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Prees Copying Books in every Btyle and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETThR PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS. Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frame*
of every kind and description uw, ‘ * rai a«».
ARTISTS' MATERIALS- Solid Sketch Blnnke
Drawing Copies, Faint Boxes, Mathematic*
Instruments, &c. mat lea.
Music Catalogues gratis on application
Goods forwarded on receipt of money’ order or
postage stamps. y OTaer or
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET, 9


Political
Points
The Gorman party have hoisted th
“Bloody Shirt.”
N.S.W. has now a population of over
mi lion—the exact estimate is 1,003,8(17.
Mr. Darley. Q.C., is ready to be Parkes
Attorney-General. But Parkes isn’t ready to giv
him the billet.
“The Mask Off!” Yes, the mask is off, an
the Sydney D.T. stands before the world impo
tently expectorating its rage like a bagged cat.
“The Calvinistic guffaw of the tiger-slaye
of the Punjaub,” is the neat phrase med by th
O’Sullivan to describle the laugh of Inglis, N.S.W
M.
Mr. Shepherd wishes to have “ politica
purity” added to the N.S.W. free list. He probabl
proposes to import some of the article for horn
consumption.
An old miner points out that the men who
threw out the bill to poll-tax the Chinese in South
Australia and the Northern Territory, were them
selves interested in sugar-lands in the North.
u Fraudulence ” is a new word invented
by Mr. Inglis, M.L.A. He evidently sees that th
N. national vocabulary needs some extension
in this direction, in view of recent disclosures.
The British Tories aren’t, after all thei
bluster, going for Irish coercion. They are even
how drafting a scheme which will be a decided
concession to Mr. Parnell. The old game—“ dish
ing the Whigs.”
The political conflict in England and Ire
land is becoming a moneyed one. Lord Wolver
ton leads out with £BO,OOO under challenge from
the Earl of Rosebery, who responds with £50,000
as a contribution to the Liberal fund.
The oleaginous Davies, in the N.S.W. As
sembly, suggested recently that a 50 per cent, ad
valorem duty be imposed on the equally oleaginou
Lloyd. We presume that this would be for pro
tective purposes only. It could hardly be a means
of revenue.
Mr. Cato has given notice in the 8. A. As-
sembly of a bill for payment of members; he pro
poses an annual honorarium of £3OO to each
legislator. In Yiotoria, the amount, and in N.S.W
the proposed amount, is £3OO, i.e., two hundred
times the traditional 30 pieces of silver.
The Irish Conservatives who are now
opposing Home Rule were the first to start the
movement at the Bilton Hotel, Dublin, with the
late Isaac Butt. At that meeting Colonel Klng-
Harman was appointed secretary, and now the
gallant gentleman is among the army of ammuni-
tionless rifles.
There are 40,000 people in the workhouses
in the North of England. The result of the recent
elections goes to show that much of the voting
democratic power of England is in the workhouse
It will be bad for a lot of people when, in the ful-
ness of time, manhood suffrage comes along and
paupers get votes.
Dan O’Connor, aghast at the recent Pro-
tectionist demonstration in Sydney, has sheered
off Parkes and is playing a lone hand prior to
“ turning dog ” on the Free-traders. Dan is ex-
pected to make, within the next six weeks, a big
oratiOD, proving conclusively that he has been an
enthusiastic Protectionist ever since he was six
years old.
Mr. Melville actually tried to pun in the
N S.W. Assembly last week. He said that
Mr. Lloyd would “no doubt make a floury
oration.” This comes of sitting opposite the Pad-
dington humourist. Anything of that kind is
infectious—it would not be surprising if some
more members were to star as uncertiflcated
insolvents shortly.
The late general election in Nova Scotia
resulted in an overwhelming victory for the
Liberals, who are pledged to support the secession
ef that colony from the Dominion, and a policy
of reciprocity with the United States. Even an-
nexation to the States was favoured by some of
the successful candidates. How is this for “ Im-
perial Federation ? ”
The especial organ (printed on Sunday) of
the Sabbatarian Parkes, says the Ulster men “ are
drilling for civil war. It is idle to pooh-pooh this
movement. There is more body in it than many
people imagine. Of this we may shortly publish
some Information which may perhaps startle the
easy-going public not a little.” What I Are the
Parkes party drilling ?
Mudgee Taylpr, writing to Monday’s
Sydney D T., says he “ has not yet swal-
lowed a purely Protectionist policy.” A.G. is
evidently waiting to see which way the cat jumps,
and when he sees clearly that the people of N.S.W.
have “swallowed a purely Protectionist policy”
he will doubtless be prepared to do likewise, and
to pose as a Protections.
Baron Maclay’s project for founding a
Russian colony seems likely to collapse, as it now
appears that to induce Russians to emigrate is an
indictable offence. Moreover, a Muscovite emi-
grant must be smuggled out of the country dis-
guised as fresh meat or some other merchandise,
and he would probably be broken open by the
Custom-house officers before being passed, lest he
should have something dutiable in his stomach. It
is great fun to be a Russian.
“Bear in mind,” said Parkes last week,
“that it was Hi who gave you your grand Hedu-
cation Haet.” No, Parkes, we won’t bear it in
mind. It was Greenwood, who is now dead, who
gave N.S.W. her grand mongrel threepsnce-a-week
Congregational system of Heducation. The N.S.W.
public school system is nothing to gush over. The
free, secular, and compulsory Victorian system
will have to be initiated in the long run. Parkes’
impudent assumption of the paternity of the
Heducation Hact was obviously a sectarian-ticket
move; and we all know what was meant by his
call of “Three cheers for the Queen.”
At last there is a prospect of the franchise
being extended to the members of the Victorian
police force. This is as it should be. Under exist-
ing arrangements a Chinaman is permitted to
record his vote, and if a policeman is as good as a
Chinaman he should be entitled to swap his vote
for a pint of beer like any other citizen. Some
people object to this argument, and one of them is
the able Deakin. The youthful Chief Secretary
considers himself equal to a Chinaman, but will
not admit the same with respect to the guardians
of the Victorian peace and the Victorian house
maids. J J. Madden, an excepttonally-intelligeut
politician, has stated in the’Ouse his belief that
“ it the police had the franchise they would use it
as intelligently as the Chinaman.''
Colbubn’s United Service Magazine is
the mouthpiece of the mi itary and naval "toffs ’
of the British service. Here is an extract in which
it views the Home Rule question from the stand-
point of intelligent Toryism:—“ The army officers
in Ireland would be the greatest sufferers. With
the gentlemen driven from the country, there
would be no shooting or hospitality, and nobody
but peasantry, small farmers, and the dregs of the
lower middle classes to associate with.” This is the
noble spirit in which English Conservatism views
a people's right to self-government. The Iriih
people are to be denied Home Rule because fast-
living “ officaws” of the service will be deprived
of the pleasure of loafing on the “shoneens”
around, the garrison towns. In Ireland, under
Home Rule, there would be no shooting—of land-
lords.
In the Imperial Parliament, just before the
last dissolution, Mr Ljbouchere asked if Mr.
Gladstone would introduce a bill to provide for
the payment of all neoessary election expenses by
the Treasury, so that any candidate, however re-
stricted his means were, might be able to stand.
Mr. Gladstone replied that, although he entirely
approved of the principle, he was unable then to
introduce such a bill. “But,” he said, “ I would
go one step farther. I think it very hard on the
working class of this country, that, in a country
which is so literal as to make provision for a
number of political pensions for salaried publio
officers—which pensions are often held by men of
birth and station—that in the same country, where
the labouring men desire to return a member of
their own class, they should have to pay the ex-
penses of his election, and also to support him
while engaged presumably in the discharge of
public duties.” This declaration in favour of
payment of members will give the Tories fresh
cause to hate the Giant Liberal.
The N.B.W. Protectionists have at last
begun to stir the people up. Recently several
meetings have been held in Sydney to advocate
encouragement to colonial industry, and these
meetings have had the right ring about them.
The names of such Freetraders as Bir HeDry
Parkes, J. C. Neild, B. R. Wise, and G. H. Reid are
received with groans by the industrial classes, and
the working men are beginning to show how
strongly they disapprove of their pretended
friends, Messrs. Abigail, Jacob Garrard, John
Sutherland, Dan. O’Connor, J. 8. Hawthorne, and
William Henson. The question of Protection has
hitherto been made to subserve Orangeism and
faction fighting- even now the Sydney Daily
Telegraph is waving the Bloody ahirt of Aus-
tralian politics by asserting that there is a “ Fenian
conspiracy” afoot—but Protection is at last seen to
be something more important than fanaticism.
Men must decide whether they will fight for super-
stition or for bread and butter. Want has taught
them what formerly they were not able to under-
stand.
Parkc-s’ especial organ, the “Neo-Liberal”
thunderer—the only paper in N.S.W., apart from
the D.T. and the (we were almost going to say
“other”) Orange rags, which supports the once
great Hi-Ham through thick and thin—is “con-
spired ” in a cellar, and—blasphemous audacity l—
it brazsnly boats of the fact that it 1s printed and
published on Sunday. This latter circumstance is
rather awkward for the Sabbatarian chamDion, Sir
Henry, who entertains so sincere a respect for the
Sawbath, and would rather break all the rest of
Exodus than do violence to the commandment
regarding the day of rest; but, after all, it is hardly
good enough to quarrel with this solitary sup-
porter. If the Kiama Ghost inventor took out his
moral bung and let his sentiments loose, he would
probably tell the editor that he is a gory Sabbath-
breaking impostor, but it is necessary to disguise
his love for the present. When, towards the close
of the forty-second century of the alleged Chris-
tian era, Parkes again comes into power in New
South Wales, with his tag-rag and bobtail of
bilious-coloured political humbugs who can
neither spell nor get their insolvency certificates,
Bailey will be—rewarded ? Yes, he will be re-
warded—by being suppressed. Such is the grati-
tude of this cruel world I
When John Woods, the member for Sta-
well in the Victorian Assembly, was on his first
canvassing tour through the Crowlands electorate,
he arranged to speak at Eversley, a township
consisting of the proverbial “pub.” and store—in
this instance combined. His audience was com-
posed of three persons—A. A. Ciennes, now secre-
tary of the Wimmera Waterworks Trust, then
John Woods’ chaperon, andl special correspondent
to the Ararat Advertiser; the landlord of the
“pub.,” and the “old band” who did duty as
groom. The first-named was sober. Woods, with
that modest audacity which has stood him in good
stead a thousand times since, was not disposed to
flinch from orating to an audience of one sober
man, and mounted the stump. He spoke for half-
an-hour (his speech, by the bye, filled three
columns of the ’Tiser), and was rapturously
applauded by the solitary “ free and independent ”
elector. After the oration there were some
drinks, and then, assuming as much dignity as was
possible under the distressingly alooholic circum-
stances, the landlord, the only elector present said :
"I’m er-goin’ to vote for yer.” “Thank you,”
proudly murmured John. “ Oh, don’t be in such
an inf nal hurry, old man. I’m er-goin’ to vote
fur yer ’cos I ’ate this blarsted country, an’ I don’t
care ’ow soon it goes to the devil, an' I thinks yer
the man to send it there.” That qualification of
the vote of eonfidence did not appear in the news-
paper reports.
“Dear Bulletin,—Gan you possibly in-
duce Lord Carington to give up his custom of
saying, whenever he is cordially received in his
tours abroad, that he is pleased with the good-
will shown to him ‘as her Majesty's representa-
tive.’ This expression is no more than a little
piece of Jingo hypocrisy, and is something of an
insult to the native Australian, who admires Lord
Carington as a man, and not as the deputy of the
stout Teuton lady who is wo shipped byßtitish
snobs. People here don’t welcome Lord Caring-
ton as her Majesty’s representative. Was not
Lord Loftus in tne same position, and did he not
maintain far more ‘dignity’ than the present
occupant of Government douse? And yet none
were found so mean as to do him any more out-
ward respect than was consistent with the barest
recognition of his official position. If he did not
get the joyous welcome now accorded to Lord
Carington, it necessarily follows that the
public in the latter case appreciate the man
(and his wife), not the Sovereign mistress.
To the man who i 3 a patriotic Australian, i e., who
loves Australia truly, Lord Carington is the king
of N.S.W., the very model of a constititi inal
monarch, capable of being a suitable figurehead to
the State and to society, and willing as well as able
to show a good example to society, while he can-
not interfere in any way with the pjliiical liberties
of the people. If N.S.W. did separate from
Britain, it might do much worse than start off as a
limited monarchy with Carington as King Charles
I. Meanwhile, at every public event we are dis-
gusted with this forced attempt of Lord Carington
to act the Imperial flunkey, reminding us of that
political connection with Britain which gives us
C. in peace and loreign bombardments,
occupations, and indemnities in war. And speak-
ing of our independence, surely we could hold our
own against the rest of tae world as well as Chili,
La Plata, Uruguay, and feru, which would fall a
much easier prey to any Russian or German an-
nexation and conquest programme.—Yours, &0.,
Scoto-Australian.”
For the edification of the Primrose
Leaguers of Australasia we print the following
extract from a speech made by their defunot god
D. in 1844 The edition of Diiraeli s spsecaes
which oont.ains this remarkable oration was pub-
lished ia 1870, and in the preface Beaconsfield de-
clared “ that in spite of some heedless rhetoric, he
believed in his histoiical conscience that the senti-
ment of that speech was right. Justice to Ireland
was said to mean an identity of institutions With
England. 1 believe that to be the greatest fallacy
that can be brought forward. I always thought
that the-greate.t cause of misery in Ireland was the
identity of institutions wth England. . . . In-
stead of havinr an identity of institutions you
should get rid of all those English institutions
which you have forced upon the country. . . .
I venture to lay do vn as a principle that the
Government of Ireland should be on a sys’em the
reverse of England, and should be centralised,
that they should have a strong Exeoutire aad an
impartial administration. These are Tory princi-
ples—the natural principles of the democracy of
England. . . . They certainly are not the Tory
principles of those who would associate Toryism
with restricted commerce and with a continual
assault' on the of the subject. If we
want permanently to settle the Irish affairs with
credit to ourselves and to the satisfaction of the
Irish people, we [must reconstruct the sooiai sys-
tem of that country and we must commence by
organising a very comprehensive and pervading
Executive. The connection with Emland thus be-
comes the present state or Ireland If the connec-
tion with England prevents a revolution, and a
revolution be the only remedy, England, logically,
is in the odious position of being the cause of all
the misery in Ireland. What, then, is the duty of
an English Minister ? To effect by his policy all
those changes which a revolution would do by
force. That is thB Irish question in its integrity.
It is'quite evident that to effect this we must have
an Executive in Ireland, whioh shall bear a much
nearer relation to the leading classes and charac-
ters of the oountry than it does at present. . . .
The system which cannot bear discussion is doomed.
I will sav, if these recommendations are adopted,
that in 50 years hence the men who shall succeed
the present generation in Parliament will And the
people of Ireland a contented and thriving
peasantry.”
At Hongkong, “loyalty” appears to be
exuding from every Chinese pore. Even our yel-
low brother. Hi Yah, who drives an opium busi-
ness, and How Long, the pork-pie vendor, have
taken to presenting addresses to Royalty, and their
affection has resulted in “ Wales ” receiving a
huge silk towel covered with inscriptions that re-
semble a bullock-team breaking up a tea-meeting.
On closer inspection, however, this proves to be
Mongol poetry; the biggest bullock—the one with
the broken rib and the mutilated hoop-iron tail—
is a eulogium on Queen Victoria, and the broken
teapot and the cloud of ilyiDg oups and sauoers
are a touching description oi the greatness
of the British empire. At the bottom of
the document a oalf with a jam tart impa'ed on
its horn is jumping on a Tartar curate, but this is
only the Celestial way of saying that “your peti-
tioners will every pray,” &o. A Presbyterian
missionary, who has resided for many years in the
East,, has translated this shattered bun-gorge into
English verse, and the opening stanzas run as
follows:
“ Great England's Prince, the Empire’s heir,
And better far the heir of Her
Who wears a Crown more rich and rare
Than wealth of Indies can confer—
the Q ueen ! Long may she wear
That Crown of goodness pure and bright,” &o.
Evidently the Hongkong Mongols are a forgiving
race when they All a whole yard of silk with
flying beefsteaks in praise of a woman who has
literally ruined their nation, body, mind, and
soul, for the beneAt of her own Empire. It was
Victoria who waged the disgraceful opium war
against the Pakin Government, and tnflioted a
curse a hundred times worse than that of alcohol
on a nation of 401,000 000 human beings to pre-
serve the trade of India and her own gilded
splendour. The Chinaman, as we know him, is a
degraded wretch, half-man, half-beast, and his
degradation is partly owing to the opium curse
which our “gracious” Queen Inflicted on him.
What he is she has helped to make him, and 30
grovelling addresses will not wipe away the stain.
This letter, out from the Sydney Morning
Herald, is stated to have been written by a colo-
nist, now in England, to a friend in N.S.W. He
says of the present position of affairs in the United
Kingdom:—"The fact is that Free-trade England
has to fight, with the world banded against her,
with hostile and Protective tariffs. At the outset,
when Free-trade was initiated under the Cobden
school, England, from the protection Nature had
kiven her in the Immense stores of coal and iron,
which she alone in Europe possessed, and from
being the first who was enabled to take advantage
of the revolution in industry from the discovery
of steam, development of railways and steamers,
&3., while the rest of Europe was split up into
little petty states subject to revolutions, was able
for a while to distance all her competitors. But
all this has been altered. Germany, Italy, Russia;
and the rest of the world have been formed into
strong and united peoples, with strong and settled
Governments. The bulk of these nations, es-
pecially French, Germans, Italians, and Belgians,
are man for man better educated, more thrifty,
and willing to work much longer hours, and able
to live for half the money that Englishmen
of the same class require, and have conse-
quently more than made up the leeway they
laboured under ; and as all English goods to
these countries are heavily taxed, while we admit
theirs to compete with ours duty free, they are
growing richer whilst England's wealth is rapidly
vanishing. The farmers, and consequently the
landlords, are without exception almos 1 : ruined.
Sir Jame3Caird, the great authority on agricul-
tural matters, has shown by figures that there is
an annual loss of £4O 000,000 sterling in the value
and rents of agricultural land in England within
the last six years; and as the imports for the same
period have decreased 80,000 000 and the exports
30,000,000. while the population (exclusive of emi-
gration) has been and is increasing at nearly 400,000
a year, it does not, I think, require much gift of
proph:ey to predict there must be a change before
long. Besides, there is this Irish question to be
settled, and, worst of all, the new power given
under the late extension of the franchise to the new
democracy, the bulk of whom consists of a class
ground down for centuries under the feudal and
class system of Government whioh has prevailed
here, and under which their condition has been
little better than that of serfs. Fancy 3,000 000
of such people suddenly given the power’ of
politically swamping the upper and middle
classes. It will, of oourse, take them some
years to understand the power they have
been put in possession of, and to be pro-
perly organised by their political leaders; but
the day is within measureable distance when Eng-
land will be shaken to her very foundations.
Mind, all this time the sole souroes of England’s
wealth, her ooai and iron, whioh alone have given
her her commercial superiority, are being rapidly
drawn upon. Tbe output of coal, which was only
10 millions of tons at the beginning of this cen-
tury, has grown to an output of 160 million! of
toes per annum, or, say, 600.000 tons per working
day; and although there are still immense fle'ds
left, i he easiest and cheapest got ooal is naturally
being extracted, so that before very long, when
this has been exhausted, they must fall back on
the deeper and more costly worked coal, so that
England will have to face an increased price in
her coal, while America, China, and other coun-
tries have their inexhaustible fields comparatively
untouched. The population of Great Britain has
likewise grown, under the artificial stimulus of
steam and its results, from 10 millions at
the beginning of thislcentury to 38 millions,
whilst from being an exporter of wheat
and grain, she is absolutely dependent on
foreign supplies for three-fourths of the food
of the peop e. Did ever the world see a nation in
such an unnatural and artificial condition ? The
great wealth here is in very few hands, and the
bulk of the people are pauperised and brutalised
by the struggle for existence. Such is the gloomy
view I take of old England's future, and unless
she can unite all her great dependencies in some
great federal Z diver din, like our ’cute friend Bis-
marck did with Germany as the prelude to an
united people, I think the old oountry has seen
her best days. Sentiment is all very well, but de-
pend upon it, if she wants to keep her colonies,
there must be with nations, as with Individuals,
the great bond of self and mutual benefit. Eng-
land has still the best market in the world to offer,
and with discriminating duties in favour of the
colonies, and by reciprocity on their part in
favour of English g mds, is the only way I can see
for confederation to be brought about. I fear,
however, people here are so wedded to Cobden and
his theories that the prospect is at present hope-
less.—Miy 20, 1888.” This letter is not only re-
markable for its pioturesque truthfulness, but also
for the faot of its appearance in the Herald
Whether a production so strongly opposing Free-
trade would have been allo wed to appear previous
to the recent triumph of Protection ia New South
Wales, is a question which readers of the Herald
will be disposed to answer with an emphatio
negative.
Marie Brizardl
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
JT DIDN’T COME OUT EIGHT.
A worthy, modest, and somewhat sensitive young
man fell heels over head in love with an attractive
girl occupying the position of governess in a cer-
tain township on the Murray. She gave him a
limited amount of encouragement, but knowing
very little about her, he was afraid to propose. In
this dilemma he consulted tlie clergyman, a matter
of fact father of a large family, and received the
following practical advice; “ Bring her into church
once or twice, and watch how she behaves; take
her round the stores shopping, and see if she buys
rubbish; and oome to our school picnic with her
next month to te3t her stability and the extent of
her love of admiration 1” The advice was duly
followed as far as the church and shops were
concerned, and with so much satisfaction that he
determined to propose immediately after the pic-
nic test. It was a lovely day, and they were seated
under a shady tree on the bank of the river, well
away from the noise of the children and the odour
of the bun' banquet. She seemed perfectly satis-
fied with the prospect, and he was on the verge of
his impassioned, declaration, when, with a piercing
scream and the glare of terror in her lovely eyes, '
she bounded to her feet and fled towards the tent.
In the scene of wild confusion that ensued some
of the girls snubbed him; but mostof them laughed,
and all refused to give him any information. It
was not till the following day that he saw the
parson, and then he knew that she was lost to him
forlever.
“ My young friend, personally I feel a little sorry
for you, though you have no claim on anyone’s
sympathy. But for the happy forethought on the
part of one of the teachers in bringing a bottle of
Bt. Jfcob’s' Oil in case of accident among the
children, that poor girl would have suffered a
martyrdom of pain before she could have been
taken home. Let this be a warning to you
through life, and when next you feel like propos-
ing to a girl take care you don’t sit her down on a
soldier ant’s nest.”
r
\
Ni
9rlo
AGAIN
Why watches made in Waterbury are fav’rites
through the land
A host of grateful purchasers will help you,
understand,
T h-y’re made by clever Yankees, machines and
pretty lasses,
E verything about them, from the cases to the
glasses ;
R e3peotiag their achievements, there’s not the
s ightest doubt,
B ut they’re just a 3 perfect inside as they are hand*
some out.
U nfair would be the man who’d expect theni
made of gold,
R emember, please, the pries at which they’rel
now so largely sold;
Y ou’ll never miss thirteen and s’x, and nevef
lose your hold.
They afe sold by all STOREKEEPERS ancf
DEALERS in the colony.
Ptice, i3s ff d,-
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
54 Margaretrstreet,
Sydney.
J\WO STARTLING EVERY-DAY RISKS.
Statistics, which are generally acknowledged to
he about the driest kind of nourishment provided
for the average man, are occasionally relieved by
the discovery of a brilliant fact which denotes the
exercise of more than ordinary official intelligence,
Recent investigations show somewhat inconclu-
sively the two principal dangers to which dwellers
in Australia are just now exposed. The first is to
become a "‘prominent colonist,” and get run in
and made a C.M.G. of when he isn’t looking ; and
the other Is to be persuaded by some silvery-
tongued salesman into the purchase of low-test
kerosene, with which the market is just now
flooded, It can be safely backed to blast a man’s
happiness and scatter hi 3 household gods through
the wilderness in quicker time than any other
description of fireworks, and give a coroner’s jury
more trouble In the way of identification than a
New Zealand earthquake.
“Snowflake” Oil is 150 deg. fire test, brilliant,
pure, and absolutely safe. It can be obtained from
Messrs. W. S Friend and Co , Mason Bros, Limited,
E. Kirchner and Co, M'Grcgor, Harris,*nd Go.,
George Griffith and Co., T. W. Euly ahi Sdn B.
Cohen and Co., Potts and Paul, Holdswertb and
Co., F. Butcher, Holds worth, Macpherson, & Co.,
Walker, Lemon and Co., M’Lean, Bros, and Rigg,
and W. Tilloek & Co,


**#
V 4l?t&£ r S‘ UT *~ Thla favourite bw®
■I ft* br e^L^ d care from «-
38gt be eiSSa,™ W)h Dublin, and
» y®*» To be procured
HARSTON. Sole Agents.
T s * JRBsa
loop AND ICS COMP AN I
(Limited)
Slave Opened a
BRANCH DBFOf
8o - 2 3 Royal Arcade,
Trhere they supply
?64mi Coffee, Cocoa, &o M with
siffht refreshments.
>ir carts, ’ ° r<sers may b « left for delirerj
e >» aiSO l . talßen OVCT the Agency for
hfcy oocipi^^ 0 biffhly ?e °omm©nded In pulmc
iSh Food and fee Co., Limited ,
♦♦ HI 81 Harbour-stree»
••• .. Liverpool-street.
••• Mittagong.
? B, \ PEMELL'S
*XTRA SUPERFINE
PBOM THE BEST WHEAT
ft Sew W i»~ tbe ne vrest and most approved
6 ?Rlpt*7 *^ p ®®ess Machinery.
„ ia nl' EitY LOW, and the QUALITY
9 1 Q *; L ABANTBED very good.
to* 1 * '‘H> MILL.
Sydney.
m
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHNMMS,
363
PlTT St REET, SYDNEY.
ty SVCS DEALERS. HB0CE8S £ffjj
KBDAL&
m
...
Vi*-
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD ffiUABLE
Peerless
A necessity In overs
family. it blacks a:i
polishes Ladl8S* and
GhiStircn’s Boo's,
Sfsoss, BubSiirs a:i
Satchels, with cot
brushing. Always
Elves satisfaction.:
Is conceded to fcs
“HE STMBM”
—..»«i &C.OPi8g
V9a 5 re§8 Street, Boste
-MASS., TT.S.A*
ViyHb I Lt ,
HATTF.RSj
’R&E STREET I
'DM
'tST SHAPES. 1
V^.} Valla CE,
j 6vefy description of
Siu fc ?a» ~ Q Z’ Mwcaniife and
vS&^ssSr*
«8oa»s w M (so eyo«rßi
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Faint, la.
Asiatic Liniment, Ss.
That Modem Appetiser—The Australian Eellsh—la
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Claytcn’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharldes and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 3s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITES
pSB
*" ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
COCTEOTENCE, ECONOMY.
Xm~ THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER savet
abour. stationery, and time, writing muot
’aster than expert penmen, and condensing matte,
•o less Shan one-half the space occupied by pei
>rrl0ng. Beautiful copies may be taken fa th»
usual manner fa the letter-press. Merchants
i valuable!
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
DUCAT and ©O..
410 Kent-street..
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, Which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will he found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £50 and,upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can he strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c.,
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER, N. S. W.
lo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seeku
Health ■, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS, |Kc 0 £V
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that hr
has permanently established himself in Sydney
and may in future be consulted at hi* rooms, No.
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back
Head or Chest, fisc., &c.
Z Cure every case undertaken.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop then
for a time and then have them return again j I meai
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cur.
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that ha.
reduced the general system so much as to induce a!
most every other disease, and the real cause of thi-
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have beer
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci
ence has produced far the relief of this class of patient
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure
• During my extensive hospital and private practise it
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanu
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell yno ai
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
3ffO. *1 SPRISTO ST-, (off Pitt-»treet north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
D R. BOYD,
OMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLBREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
1RADUATH IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Offloe Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
enormities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box wo eo’.a
m, ■'
SLrm
rtjpri
m
mmm
mm
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 3.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Sealp with loss of Hair
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, ana vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
Reuter’s healing soap,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing- of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
8ole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hy3f*iun£| 3t Co.
WSB*V&©' #/
,
a^K*w
PARRY & Os
NEW EXTRACT
<r.
' as
I
% MARSmPfAL VIEW OFm
A/
>m4
y
A4i
y
V 4
&A
V
(P o° ,
<*
/// Vv
■y;;. Messrs, S. HOFF.NUNG & CO., Agents.
i. B* iODIiI,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and bes* selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements Tin
Breach and Mussle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent lor the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co, Joseph Lang and Son, Cbas. Osborne and
Co., T, Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., Who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &e, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men's Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 Se«rge»st., Brickfield Hil«, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
ZLXIBXDXCXXTE!
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHIMG
is more essential to enable doctors to make qulok
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomat in our establishments, aud
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST FEME.
SO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY JTRM.
Ms T. Missis l Cs.,
DO PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Wf.S.'W.
lANHOOD RESTORED
A Clergyman having tried every known rented
<>r the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTIOh
’REMATURE DECAY &.C., has at last dis-
uvered a simple SELF"CURE, which, for the .-.she
f suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE Pre-
cription which CURED him. Address with seif
edressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box 202, G. P 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-streot, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, lias
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal Com.egk of
Physicians of England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases. '»
land
1
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
__ PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS iNGHAM.f
OCKHAM PTGN. h>
mm
Uo/lUni
DH. O COOTELL,
52 Gasilereagh Streep
SYID3STEY, I^T-S-W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered bj
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment,, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private eases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CON N ELL is the oldest advertising
physician, ns papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or hy post, free and invited, A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent fey post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is Lankly stated. Es pedal attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight,.Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of F'easure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, Ac., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manenf, safe, and private. free, and medicines sent by post.
8kin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind. from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the groat number ot cases applying, tho
charges are kepslow—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy perfect life ouro, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or,
address DOCTOR J. O CONWKLL,
52 Cusllcreagli Street (oboohd floor), Sydney,


'HOS. GAUNT,
WA TCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAH,
14 b -JS&GBSP f 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. \
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prlza Cups, Optleal and Surveying Instruments, So.
3BC
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Laver Hatch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewe
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAOHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
SB4 &g©gtSE STftEjET.
VST WRDDINGS, RALLB, PTCNICS. * efß P .* RTTSB a BPBCJALITY,
107 Fitt-straet,
CATERER AND CONFEC'
LONCBEO 1 * D KBFBEB )¥»HT » 0 >M« FOR TiAPT* 8
FRY’
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
TED COCOA
I
J.
S. FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the heat ale or porter. I*AJfG*T.
MASON BROTHERS
fgdfgdfgsfgsdfgdfgdfgdf
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Stsaat,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK, for BAL3
to the TRADE and WHOLi
SALE BDTBRS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
Asm
HA3THHMWA ft ft
WTNS3, BEERS, aim SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and BOW
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G ATEN'S
Sehnappa and Genera.
A. MKLVwlnd SONS*
Bdinbuvga Pale A la.
UNDE 7 ! THE PATRONAGE OP HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “ Massillia,” 12 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian & i§arott@s,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur ia
Cigarettes. he recommends them to his patrons as
fating of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“Splllsr’s,”
whose reputation Is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NGAKE’S EST BLISHM£NTS
320 and 416 George-st ,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter- street.
A
■asr
CJ
on
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish WHsoa’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luneheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or eheeas.
TURNER & CO.,
Bole Agents, '
?4 Bitssbx B*Ba*r. ‘irnirrr.
=B=
BUDGEBEE!
BUDGERE® 1
Trade
&
it
NO MORE FBVE^, ig ;;^
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &o. »old al g
Depot: JAB. G. STEEL, Bulletin-lane,
JSIC SELLERS BT SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MA g
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Also, at Lokdon, Mayknce, Paris, and „
- jj J
IST LAEOB T STOCK IK THE c ° h^&2
3f
BULJL 800 ABB.
JTIKgT AWABD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THB sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst
quenching- properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.— KEIG WIN and
HARSTON, Pole Agents
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
TOR 2 STREET, STHYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITB PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS
SE"
AFTtn CEfORg
Copyrighted.
;cusi
acho aid wSSS
.i'oijcVh Beard Elixir did thui
5 uni will do it on cither hold
'head or hare, face Forcen
heavy Mount uchctin from 2 /
4 ioeeh'9 and never fails, 20.000
young men already wear fall
beards, having lined 1 to ;s pht*. J\ o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. lackets r \e (W. each, £ for 3*,(jrt., post paid, under
cover, freefrem obs motion . a dflrcvs, Vrank Douglas, i'vle a gent.
Box 7;V), <1 V. 0 ,, Sydney, jV fit, ir.
ttfcr.l AMtn
5E
©fTS-
Copyrighted
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Palin*’*.)
TEE “PE
w
,* nf pel feC ' „ 1
THE highest point OI A
facture of > e 0 e
•tio 0
icture oi >
Gentle#® 1 *
e^V,
oor( .i*s<«;/
haring bean reached by cll atc|C*
prepared to supply u t oP tb dr .
made of any material. jfi
principle, pSfIJJr J
aDAItANTHBIbg/ptllll.
and as we use material# 0 aJ . e »I#°
and as we use maters* ar e i
durability and good T^ l
debM
$
13
htjnte* 1
II mw afact«iT'__^-^ ir p JJi 7 „t a
HEAT ES3TBBJpjjfiJ
ferafy b’.','. P r‘o r S?.d t0 .«»'“” g
terms.
T arrive—l6o 9*rhU to v iad»'~d
sfaifss 4j?” P .sr;v
p.
Curry and Muun* .
Duck, &o. I)*
letters and order# gT* 1
manager, „„ trrjN l^
31 and 33 » u
U.T* HOWLANDS k LAW 18, 9
Nimfactanr of all kinds at dErstad Batsrs, Cordials, and Btttara, and Proprietor of ™
BAT.I.A RAT, ÜBUOUBNB, 111 »l
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
the Only Go la Medal for /Era ted and Minora / Waters; also, another Gold
Liqu* u 3
I 1
r*£
