

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
df
Hordern & Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket only
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN AUSTRALIA.
••
ngumi
wm
m,
AUTUMN FASHIONS.
The Latest, the Freshest,
the very Newest.
PRETTILY TRIMMED
Miiguttc Jerseys
From 7/9.
m
mm
is
■
m,
m-
m
m
FASHIONABLE ITEMS.
NO END OF A CHOICE
of
Elegast Jersey Jackets,
at
VERY LOW PRICES.
AN EXQUISITE DISPLAY
of
AUTUMN MILLINERY.
* >'■; \/' V
Matter
f LITrLE BOYS’ CLOTHING has our special care. We study the exigencies of the situation in every way; we s j e that the boys are well and serviceably
and we are careful, in the interest of the parent, to keeD prices down to the lowest ebb.
the palace emporium is close to the railway station.
#
1
b 22?
. *°k hami eyton and Peyton’s, and Kendrick’s Bedsteads,
h* s PW^ a ' pol ished pillars, Bronze -”' 1 Nri^“l «»«"«*■-
a BrBBs - mounted Hd,f Tf
and Nickel mounts.
Tester, JB3!
TROUSER SUITS, in Fancy
A
RARE
SHOW
of
Bedsteads
JUST
NOW.
gsd
100 Sample l!e<t«fea<la,
always on view
»,• ,
is'
»«•) < ■9"* '*“♦
Biecest Best, and Most Vari. d Stock < f Bedstead? l»
Australia All kind*. .1 *.»Grand quality.
ll.tab. Kxtreme Durability. v
Tweeds, Nine and Sixpence !
IT.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL
CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
mr Brass and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithhig
jPlmmbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-flttmg
of every description.
BOULTON'S "FLUSH-OUT," “ YALYE.” & "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PaBYSm TBBSi ®C.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The FACULTY monounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast:
Luncheon, or Supper;" and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Beimr absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
GOCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keepina for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
favts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Detailed by Chemists, Grocers , &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d,, 3s , ss. 6d., &c.
wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
86HW&XTZER & CO., 10 ADAM-BTREHT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
ORG-ATCrS !
SOLE AGENTS EOB THE
“ Bid ITH.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,
PIAH, WHS, MU.
197 Pkft-st p Sydney.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Bees to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE end KBTaIL, BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality; and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WR It KY,-BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PA ONES, at the Lowest Prict s obtainable ia Sydney.
A trisl will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. | W~ Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On reoeipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
6 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WINE.
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 6 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
V TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Oases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P, R. LARKIN , Wholesale & Retail IV/ne & Spirit Merchant A Importer,
: George and.Gipps Streets, Haymar&et, Sydney.
J^O'
&
u
Makers to the
n
Genuine'
Economical
<
fgsdfgsdf
gsd
•• ~
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 GEORGE STREET.
WBDDINGB. BALLS. PICNIC®. AND PAKTTEB A SPECIALITY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJKSTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W ;
Also, at London, Matence, Paris, and Brusseia.
'
LABSSST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
■9 t
•t
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIB Hotel la centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tran,way, fee
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wine, and Spirit?
lost Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
mgr LUNCHEON AND RJUPBISHM SNT ROOMS FOB LADIBS AND GINTLXMBN.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, ail l
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATK®SJ
GENERAL IRONMONGER’
, aii MU
I
Importers of
STEAM .
RAIL
$0
ttlNGh, and WINDING PLANT. PUMPS, COi
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &0.
BAB. PLATE, SHHBT.
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRU
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBRFO
BATED ZINO: TIN
plates
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUBHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BfiftCfl
m
if
UMC
t
-
and 8f&
gines
VEBTIC
ZONTAi
TB A* l
PUMPS
TBAM
■ B a h^»
Price Lists wad Catalogues furnished on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
CO'
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Offtoa -
- 64 YORK STREET, .fl#
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS’,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARIA* w
-8» GRAOEOHUBOH •**
Alex. Borthwick. q|^
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. 'f
2 SI. G-eorgr©-st., .
OFFORD & CO.’S HA 1
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest. ±j
tST* Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 Georg© ® _ r .. %
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Com Paint, la.
Asiatio Liniment, 2a.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayt n’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, la.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2j. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ART IFI Cl AL TEET H
rOMPLETESFT
marshall'bro?
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
y i j3NIHOVIAI
: as J
m
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCK'
WITH ALL „i|C
newe_st_des | cn^
HIGHEST FiNl s!i j
I fIWFSTCOgIIi
(/
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS :
ESTIMATED FOE '
LA 1
11l
Sydney:
HI, PITT STREET.
Ml
\V°
IVJC
10.
FREE
PR ESC
be found m
LIFE,” for the speedy cure o*
Lost Manhood, Despond® 01 »
this book wiil be sent P ofit
penny stamps. Address— fin.,
8. WABD*^
A


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3.—No. 156—New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1886.
Frloe—M.
The Imperial—Slattery!
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1886.
Some weeks ago, Mr. Thomas Michael
Slattery, M.P., stated his intention of re-
tiring from public life in New South Wales.
Now, however, it seems that he has unwisely
repented, and proposes to brand himself as
a political clown instead. This may or may
not have been his direot intention, but the
motion in his name for the Bth June will un-
doubtedly have that effeot. Its terms are as
follows :
“ That, in the opinion of this House, this colony,
as well as all British dependencies enjoying re-
sponsible Government, should each contribute an
equitable sum annually towards the expenses of
the army and navy of Great Britain and Ireland,
in order, not only to relieve the tax-payers of the
mother country from further payments by them
for and on account of the inestimable services
rendered by the army and navy in the protection
of the lives and properties of Her Majesty’s sub-
jects in this and the said dependencies, but as a
just contribution towards such expenditure from
a loyal people.”
It is difficult to discover the motive power-
ful enough to induce Mr. Slattery to table
such a resolution as this. It may possibly
be that he, a son of the Roman Catholic
Church—which has ever held the Queen to
be second to the Pope, and which deolares
the Law subject to prelatical interpretations
of the Gospel—feared that his loyalty to the
Crown might be suspected, so brought this
proposal forward as evidence to the con-
trary. He doubtless knows that the Abi-
gails of the House have remembered his too
generous utterances when, as a Minister of
the Crown, he promised very large assist-
ance in an undefined manner to the Jesuits,
and is aware that those indiscreet promises
are retained for use against him. But even
so, it would have been far better for him to
have borne the stigma of a too devoted
loyalty te his church, than to invite ridicule
by posing, in the way he has done, as an
hysterical patriot*.to the empire. If his
motion be rejected with the contempt it
merits, he and those who vote with him
will be the objects of thinly-disguised de-
rision; if on the contrary any marvellous
combination of ciroumstances should give
him a majority, the Assembly of New South
Wales will be the subject of ridicule to the
whole English-speaking world. For a com-
munity to offer to pay away a portion of its
revenues before any request to that effect is
made, for a benefit that is chiefly imaginary
is foolish in the extreme; but to lecture
“ all British dependencies enjoying respon-
sible Government ” upon the necessity of
their doing likewise, is the height of im-
pertinence, and the apex of absurdity.
* * »
Fareioal as the resolution is, there are
many politicians and newspapers bound to
support it, or else be self-convicted of the
grossest inconsistency. Upon all who advo-
cate Imperial Federation this motion has a
special olaim, as it prepares the way for that
closer union of the mother country and her
colonies, whioh has already been the theme
of many high-flown but lamentably indefi-
nite leading articles, and of much fervid
post-prandial blather. These panegyrists of
Imperial Federation have touohed only
upon the sentimental side of their subject:
they have dilated upon the glories to be
achieved by a United Empire, but have not
indicated at what cost this Union is to be
consummated, nor what privileges the
colonies must renounce in order to be
sharers in the vaguely-prophesied triumphs.
7“* Slattery’s motion directs attention to
he other’ side of the question, calls upon
Australians to contribute to the cost of
governing Great Britain, and plainly points
to a renunciation of our privilege of self-
defence. His is the practical view: that
adopted by the Dalleys of the community
the unreal and the romantic. The proposed
system may have been a potent delusion,
when only vague generalities were discussed
in heroic terms, but when direct payments
are involved we are convinced that Imperial
Federation will lose many of its most en-
thusiastic and least thoughtful—the terms
are in this case synonymous—advocates both
in the editor’s room and the banquet-hall.
When, further, the proposal to vote a subsidy
is regarded as a payment to England to induce
her to continue the guardianship of our
shores, the proposal will be spurned by all
who value the measure of independence
MR. E. H. HARGRAVES
The Original Diseoverer of Gold in Australia.
whieh the colonies have already won. Yet
the successive steps towards Imperial Fede-
ration would involve levies and sacrifices of
which those contemplated by this present
motion afford but an insignificant example.
Let it be supposed that Mr. Slattery’s mo-
tion is carried, and that a sum of money be
sent to England to reimburse her for de-
fending our ports. Then it will be only
just that the colonists should have a voice in
the disposal of monies to which the com-
munity is a contributor, and so a paltry
coterie of New South Wales representatives,
selected from the privileged classes, would
be sent to the Commons. Consequent upon
this representation the degradation of the
local Assembly would ensue. With ac-
credited Australians in the Commons all
matters which concern the dependencies as
separate communities in relation to other
States or nations ■would rightly be dealt
with by the Central Parliament. This
would leave nothing but matters of a
strictly municipal charaeter to the local
Legislatures, and the Legislative Coun-
cillors, as well as the Slatterys and
Abigails of the Assembly, would find in
road and bridge discussions full scope for
all the intellect and Statecraft with which a
beneficent Creator has endowed them.
* * *
Such a picture of the consummation of
the Federation which our local Imperialists
profess anxiety to achieve is not pleasant to
contemplate, yet it is a correct forecast of
what must necessarily be the course of
events if the system is ever to be inaugur-
ated. Its worst feature would be the ex-
tinction of our national aspirations. We
should then be not Australians, but English-
men living in Australia. And loyalty is
largely discounted by distance. Men can-
not be patriots to a mere abstract idea. Every
worthy Australian could be devotedly loyal
to an Australian Federation, for he would
be as a unit cohering to millions of others
akin to him in the broad circumstances of
national life, and fellow sharer with him in
national dangers. But it would be otherwise
if he were a citizen of an enormous federated
empire of whioh the constituent portions
were distributed over the face of the globe.
He would then be asked to claim national
kinship with men of whom he had heard
but the vaguest reports, and with others of
whose dangers and aspirations he knew no-
thing ; he would have to contribute to wars
of whose justice or necessity he could not
judge, and to join in quarrels whioh his
fellow-countrymen had no share in making,
and his patriotism and loyalty would need
to centre upon a mere abstraction—
a shadowy and fanciful creation which
the mind is unable to invest with
reality. Australians could fight for Aus-
tralia, but that they should suffer for the
sake of the integrity of a heterogenous
empire, ruled over by an elderly lady for
whom the discriminating people of England
itself do not evince a very large amount of
respect or admiration, is neither reasonable
nor just.
* * *
As anticipatory of the tendency of Mr.
Slattery’s resolution,^it Tis worth while to
consider the effect of representation in the
Commons. This latter body would then be
charged, as we have shown, with all colonial
legislation affecting the attitude of the
colonies to other dependencies or nations,
and the evident result would be to foist an
Imperial Policy on the various communities
composing the empire. Victoria would then
be asked to give up Protection, New South
Wales to allow an avalanche of Chinese to
pour in upon her territory. And a peerage
for Australia—a speoies of hereditary
C. M. G .-ship—would be a necessary reward for
those politicians called or elected to attend
the English Parliament. These are some of
the penalties appurtenant to Imperial
Federation, whioh, when once realised by
the people of New South Wales, will for
ever remove the craving that any unreflect-
ing colonists may have for that “closer
union with the mother oountry” upon
which the Sydney dailies delight to ex-
patiate. We have spoken of the Federated
Empire as though it were possible that it
should ever be brought about by the efforts
of “patriots ” of the Slattery order, but the
fear of such a calamity is extremely remote.
If, indeed, Australia should ever become so
bound to England, the bondage would
be but the first step towards abso-
lute freedom. Somewhere on this Con-
tinent there would be another Lexington,
a second Bunker’s Hill, and another
Saratoga. Then the various oolonies hav-
ing united in a common cause, would find
it to their own mutual benefit to make that
union permanent. Imperial Federation
would merely hasten the advent of Austra-
lasian Federation with national indepen-
dence.
• • "
Mischievous as is the tendency of Mr.
Slattery’s motion, its immediate effect
would be equally vicious. Disregarding the
spirit of Jingoistic cant evinced in the words
whioh invite the Assembly to arise in
judgment against all other British depen-
dencies under responsible Government, we
still object to hand over to England our
duties in the way of self-protection. If a
squadron is necessary to our safety, it must
be procured at our own expense, and be con-
trolled by the New South Wales authorities.
To supplioate or subsidise England to keep
us safe from our enemies, would be to stifle
national aspirations and strangle the spirit
of self-reliance essential to our advance as
a community. The power of self-defenoe
should be 00-extensive with our opulence:
the greater the temptation which the colony
offers to a rapaoious foe, the more complete
should be its means of repelling an attack.
To ask England to take a oontraot for our
protection would be not less foolish than
cowardly. Two further reasons should dis-
suade colonists from depending upon Eng-
land for protection by sea. The first of
these is that it is possible that England her-
self may be Australia’s first assailant. The
other, that a European war may wipe Eng-
land out of the list of nations. It is not
necessary to dwell upon this latter contin-
gency. When France went to war with


Germany in 1870 it was found that money
whioh should have gone to equip the army
had been squandered on oourtesans. In like
manner a large portion of the English army
vote goes into the pookets of rascally con-
tractors who supply leaden bayonets,
shoddy uniforms, and unserviceable guns
and ammunition; and royal loafers such
as the Duke of Cambridge, Prinoe Lbinin-
gbn, and the Duke of Edinburgh, olutoh
huge salaries for demoralising the foroes by
taking, over the heads of good men and true,
positions, the duties of which they are
utterly inoompetent to fulfil. England is
not impregnable, and it would be madness
to leave the safety of the oolonies dependent
upon her continued prosperity. A “ Battle
of Dorking ” would in suoh a case mean the
subjugation of Australia.
• *
Should the resolution as quoted in our
opening paragraph ever come to a division
in the House, it will probably be supported
by all who have ever toadied for a knight-
hood, a C.M.G.-ship, or for permission to re-
tain the title of “Honorable” withia the
colony, and by all who intend to sue for these
honours in the future. It will also most
probably be supported by those who wish to
tie the Australian kangaroo to the tail of
the British lion and by all hysterical loyal-
ists Of the DALIiBY-OUm-SLATTERY-CUtn-
Abigail order. Still, in spite of suoh mighty
advocates, there must be enough members
who are loyal and patriotic to New South
Wales to soornfully rejeot a motion which
would check the material prosperity of the
colony if adopted, and which would make
our Parliament the laughing stook of half
the known world.
The Proposed Parsonical Land-Grab.
The creeds of well nigh all the bells have been
dinned Into people’s ears about this business. Pres-
byterian and Methodistic have been at it loudest,
the souls they had saved were more directly
menaced, you see; the stations they had secured
and hoped to secure were also imperilled; but that
of course was a secondary consideration. The
bells of the creeds might have rung on, however,
they would have had no more effect upon the
New Hebrides and their disposal than the tongues
of the parsons upon the filth and rot of humanity
generally found in grossest forms beneath the
shadows of the churches. But, unluckily, the
bell-ringers found a voice in a politician who, like
Ga wain's ghost, has become nothing but a voice,
—Bir Henry Parkes. Sir Henry Parkes saw
that there was something wrong in this matter of
New Hebrides; and there would indeed have been
something very wrong if the House had made it his
footstool to power. And with two morning and
two evening papers.subject to clerical control,
or led by ignorant impulse, giving tongue with
zeal, there was a temporary fizzle amongst the
shallower minds of New Sonth Wales.
* ** *
What was it ail about ? Ask the S.M. Herald
what it was all about, and the Herald will
answer with either the most audacious mendacity
or contemptible ignorance: “England wants to
sacrifice Australian interests to her temporary
convenience, and our Government is willing and
eager to aid her.” Ask the Telegraph, but you
had better not, for the Telegraph became angry
in the matter and so incoherent. Ask the mis-
sionaries. As well ask a Jew for leaven in Pass-
over week, or a loan on the chance of a Civil
servant’s rise in any week. It is of no use asking
any of the voioes which have been loud in this
matter. It is better, it is necessary, Indeed, to go to
the facts yourself to gather them into Intelligible
form, and read and understand what they really
mean.
• . ■ *
And what are the facts ? Let us put them
plainly. The first faot is that the New
Hebridean people, happened to be doing very
well for themselves, and England and France
chanced to be honest enough to let them
alone. England said to Franoe : “If you
don’t I won’t ” (steal was meant), and France re-
plied, “Amen.” So matters jogged along for
some years, notwithstanding the howls of certain
Presbyterian missionaries, who, with the example
of Shirley Baker in Tonga before their eyes t
wanted badly to perform more acts of heroic stlf-
saoriflee, get a few more trading-stations, and
make a few more easy piles.
* * *
About this time thundering along the Pacifio
came that picker-up of all unconsidered trifles—
Bismarck. The big part of New Guinea, New
Britain, New Ireland bore the impress of his foot,
and of his red hand of brutal conquest. He was
moving as resolutely and unscrupulously as his
Vandal ancestors, and Franoe, eager—naturally
eager—to have some sort of standing-ground
against the advancing enemy, put in her plea for
the New Hebrides; said to England in plain terms:
I want to steal the New Hebrides—will you
object ? England then, with a really fine oourteey,
asked the opinion of Australia, and, for the part
of Australia which he chanced to represent, Sir
Patrick Jennings answered—and very well—
“ Give them the,New Hebrides if you can make a
bargain that they send no more convicts to the
Pacific.”
• a •
That was the reply which put all the fat in the
fire, that set all the penny trumpets a squeaking,
that gave Sir Henry Parkes his imaginary ful-
crum, and stirred up pious editors to bring such
railing accusations against France and Frenchmen
as Michael the ArohangeJ, never conceived
against the Devil.
* * *
But the mystery of the matter is that
not one of these pious persons seemed
to have the slightest idea that the flisfc
duty of England was to do right, and that a first
cause of quarrel amongst Great Powers would be
a breaoh of a specific agreement. Perhaps we
ought not to have expected them to understand
the seoond matter. Their peculiar training in the
way of douWe-aiuUUs, and fast and loose play
with clear words and evident facta must tend to
twist their moral sense. They cannot see how a
bargain is binding, or understand how, amongst
men of the world and nations in the world, what'
is agreed to be done generally is done. But men
in Parliament ought not to be so befooled, and
they were not. The few men we have in Parlia-
ment, with old Sir John, who, though never a
statesman, was and is and while he lasts will con-
tinue to be a man, cursing loudest, at their head
kicked the thing out in contempt. And what did
we see then ?
♦ * *
Precisely what a far-seeing man might have ex •
peoted. Pious people who did not scruple to charge
the Republlo of France with lyiDg, treaohery, and
premeditated theft, turned round in a moment on
the majority of our House of Assembly and charged
them with perjury and corruption. Not in direot
terms, of course. They are not fond of direct
terms. They put it as “voting on this matter not
according to their conviction, but in accordance
with what they conceived to be the exigencies of
the case.” And what more ? Nothing more ex-
cept the surprise and disgust of sensible and
well-informed people. Tne Parliamentary minor-
ity had spluttered, they went out. The
Premier sent his straightforward and politic
message home, and so the matter rests. Who
cares whether the Premier is fishing for a
baronetcy, or whether any Lord’s shepherd is
hungering after a fat island or a good trading
camp ?
• • •
If this affair is dealt with by the Liberal party in
England, amongst the first things asked will be
these—What guarantees will you Australians,
preachers or politicians, give for the fair treat-
ment of those niggers? What have you done
with them hitherto ? What are you doing with
them now, eh ? And if there is an Australian
around who has travelled, but not for “the
Lord,” he may answer—We have just murdered
them all in Tasmania; in New South Wales we
have about a thousand left; you may find about
40 camped at Lavender Bay, a mile from Sydney
Post-office—now—rotting out of the world,
poisoned with nicotine, with vile rum, with foul
dieease. In Queensland we are shooting and stab-
bing with manly vigour, killing the men, flogging
and outraging the women, stealing the children.
In various islands of the Pacific we have, by our
unscrupulous slave trade, sowed such seeds of
hatred, that the black vendetta will only die out
with the black races; but all the while we
have got the banner of Christ aloft. Oh, honest
man Christus! bon sans culotte Jesul forgive us
the blasphemy and the brave work we have done
beneath it.
■ ■ ■
The Liberal party, the Democratic party, the
party in England based on righteousness and
broad conceptions and true recognition of human
right, will not listen to our poor, our weak, our
rotten Australian plea for more and more
dominion.
* * *
But, oh, brothers, dearly beloved, let us, like
you, add a little of the wisdom of the serpent to
the harmlessness of the dove. Oh, brave knights,
dreaming of baronetcies, and, good men and true
also (if you will permit us to introduce you to the
peculiar company), would you grasp an oppor-
tunity which may grow out of all this muddle ?
Wiil you look ahead just a little bit ? You, good,
pious folk, who believe all men are liars, may j ust
take our candle to find the lost ends of your own
theories. You better fellows may follow a more
reasonable supposition. Suppose, now, this bar-
gain, this very good bargain, is brought about, and
that by and bye France, following her own (always
evil) designs or retaliating in time of war, or seek-
ing new changes by new treaties, proposes to begin
again the deportation of her convicls to southern
seas. Think of it 1 Realise it! Imagine the holy
howl you could raise, the satisfaction with which
you could hiss out the “ I told you so I ” It would
be very very fine, and you could epjoy all your
pious delight, while we could go another way to
the satisfaction of our worldly desires. We, using
human nature as we find it, and the influences
which are sometimes pitched in by chance, would
find in the general cry that would be raised
against that proposal, the flux essential to Austra-
lian Federation. We would join your hallelujahs,
and also the orating and bombast of the knights
who would be baronets, and the Colonels who
would be Generals, and the little folks generally
who always will be big, with a yell to one and all
to get up and “ chuck the tea overboard.” We
think we might shake Australia together by that
effort, and, to the confusion of many estimable
people, doubtless, shake her also—free, loose. .
* * *
And then, with a soul and a body of her own, and
as good an intent to keep the one as to save the
other she might possibly begin to grow.
Their Excellencies,
If the Sydney daily newspaper would do its duty
it would not fall to us to approach the vice-regal
Court. For we go there neither to flatter nor to
fea&t. We have a few plain words to say, in a very
plain manner, and yet with a proper decorum and
in full dress as it were. Our dress, however, must
be of our usual plain English, and if we fall short
of customary courtesy,', their Excellencies must
pardon us and let the superfluities of the worthy
retired publicans and storekeepers, the exquisite
sons of old colonial sires, and the fair butterflies
of English breeding whose foreheads and chins
have all been lost in the process of refinement,
make amends. We can’t try their weapons, having
never proved them.
• * ■
Let us get to the point, and the first point we
propose to touch is a certain £lOO cup and a £5
donation. Lady Carington gave a hundred
pound oup to the winner of the Sydney Cup,
Lord Carington sent £5 to the fund for the relief
of four widows and about fourteen orphans at
Llthgow Valley.;And is there fault or sin in either
of these gifts? Not a jot. Both are good deeds.
Why shouldn't her ladyship wear all her feathers
at the Cup and give the winner another cup and
make a nice little speech, and add zest and grace
and the delioate flavour, the line aroma of true
aristocraoy, to the show? Why not, indeed? An-
swer up, Praise-God-Barebones—tcc have no
thing to say. Aad why should not his Excellency
give £5 to the Lithgow people? Don’t know.
Don’t know either why he should or shouldn’t
give five hundred. It is his own business.
* * *
But this do we know, that he shouldn’t let it
appear in print and on the same day that her lady-
ship gave the cup and made the speech, that
he sent that very little cheque. We know, of
course, having taken the trouble to ascertain, that
£5 is a very small traction of the sum Government
House has sent up to Lithgow. Government
House, so far as giving money is concerned, has
done its duty very well indeed. But Government
House should have set itself ere this to have
learned a little more of the ways of Bydney people,
and particularly of Sydney people of means.
Government House and Governor Carington
should have understood that a donation of £5 to a
certain fund for a certain purpose would be,
pretty sure to make £5 the limit of individual
gifts. £5l says Plutos:— “ I could well afford to
give £5OO, but who am I that I should set myself
before the Governor ? That public gift of £5
gives excuse to the enemies of all true liberality
for meanness. Look into the heart of it, your
Excellency, follow out its farthest consequences,
and you will see that instead of relieving it robs
the widow and the orphan. Your name to a lump
sum of £soo—far be it from us to say that you who
are always giving should have contributed £soo—
probably have meant a total of £5000; your
advertised £5, only a fraction of your total, as we
have said, means, probably, something under
£lOOO. You didn’t know that; yeu don’t believe it*
Just wait a little and you will see it. You will see,
dear lord of good intent but small experience, that
j ou have got into the meanest set of the wealthy
lower orders the Southern Cross ever shone upon.
But you don’t, you can’t, believe it, of course.
Well, wait, wait, wait. And you dt cline to court
publicity. sTou are not going to blazon abroad
your charity or to distribute your cheques as the
big bookmaker discharges his debts on the public
footpath. That is quite right so long as you do
not sacrifice the well-being of a score of poor
sufferers to your own finer feelings.
• * *
But, your Excellencies, with all courtesy, with
even a little humility, may we ask you what is the
meaning of this ?
“ We learn that his Excellency the Governor and
Lady Carington have sent a most kindly-worded
letter of sympathy to Mr. W. R. T. Passmore, con-
doling with him on the Joss of his son ny the late
tramway accident.”
Yes, it is just a paragraph clipped from a daily
paper. We know you did not put it there. We
know that you did not desire that it should appear
there. We know the little deed of graceful cour-
tesy sprang direct from natural and honourable
impulse. Your hearts are kind, your instincts
are right. You deemed that it would soothe that
poor lady to know that she had your sympathy.
Your letter was simply as pity’s tear. It fell, it
had its effect. It may have been refreshing as a dew-
drop; it should, like a dewdrop, have passed away.
But it got into print. Your Excellencies, how came
that matter to get into print? You did not desire
it to be conveyed to the papers that you had graci.
ously condescended to sympathise with sorrow,
And God forbid that any true mother's son should
so wrong that poor suffering mother as to imagine
that she would advertise her grief or the consola-
tion she had found. Then what lackey, what
toady, what brainless, chinless dolt, contrived to
meet the waiting reporter, and say to him: “I
thought, haw, you would be glad to know, haw 1
that his lordship, haw I—with, haw, her ladyship
thought it welt, aw, to write to the woman, you
know, whose son was killed in that howid affair?’*
Exert yourself to be rid of him, and don’t spare
your boot-toe in the matter, most excellent Go.
vernor, and we shall have the satisfaction of
knowing that we have not made our visit to Court
in vain.
The Seal of Lagdom on the Brow of law.
The New South Wales Press is much obliged to
Mr. G. H. Re Li) for his good intentions in intro-
ducing to Parliament a Bill providing that costs
shall not accompany nominal verdicts in libel and
slander cases. But the Press, while thanking Mr.
Reid for a proposed instalment of justice, sees
that he is only half-hearted in the matter. Mr.
Reid says, for instance (we quote theS.M. Herald
report) :
“ The law might also be amended by abolishing
imprisonment for debt, but he considered that
that would be throwing the door open to men who
might take advantage of their own poverty to
level most atrocious slanders against others. If
such men could not be punished by their pockets
being reached, they should be punished by im-
prisonment. He had no desire to see imprison-
ment abolished in such cases. He thought the Bill
he had to submit embodied a moderate reform. It
did not go too far. In a case where the jury re-
turned a verdict of 40s. the plaintiff should not be
awarded costs He was sensible of the
fact that most of the provision of the law had
been wisely framed, and that, upon the whole, the
law worked well,”
* * *
The Press—let us for the hundredth time and in
the same words go over this matter—the Press
denies that “ upon the whole the law works well,”
except for the lawyers in general, and speculative
legal blacklegs in particular. In Victoria the
jibel-law has been closely assimilated to the pre-
sent English law; in New South Wales the jour-
nalist and the public aro still beneath the lash of
the British law of 1780-the very Statute which
sent to gaol Andrew Bent, the manly old printer
of Van Diemen’s Land, and which was so vigor-
ously enforced in Bydney in the happy days when
the adulterine children of Royal bastards and the
profligate irresponsible penny Neros who ruled
with cat and gallows in the name of their relative,
His Glorious Majesty the Defender of the Faith,
found it necessary to have ample means at their
disposal for protecting themselves from the awk-
ward effects of the truth being told.
* * *
Mr. Reid s Bill does not make truth an absolute
defence as in England; nor would it enable a de-
fendant in a libel or slander action to absolve him-
self (as in England or Victoria) from indebtedness
as regards costs by surrendering his estate. Mr.
Reid’s Bill does not remove the “Heads I win,
tails you lose” state of things, which, in New
South Wales, prompts all Borts of enterprising
scoundrels, egged on by legal pettifoggers, to em-
bark in actions for the recovery on technicalities
of costs and damages for alleged libel or slander.
Mr. Bead's Bill does not propose to remove the
barbarous anomaly by which in New South Wales
—in New South Wales alone—a libel or slander
plaintiff, when he loses his case, need pay nothing,
for he can become insolvent and laugh at the de-
fendant, and he cannot be sent to gaol. On the
other hand, even should Mr. Reid’s Bill beoome
law, any scoundrel who on a mere technicality
gains a libel verdict for 415., not only has the body
of the defendant delivered over to him for 13
months, but is thereafter, as now, allowed to
follow him up in insolvency to the day that the
defendant is screwed down in his coffin, on which
article he is permitted to levy an attachment.
♦ * *
In other words, suppose a man is found guilty,
on indictment, of a criminal libel in the Suprem e
Court of New South Wales, he may be sentenced
to (say) six, three, or two months’ imprisonment,
less or more, or he may be merely fined; but should
he, in a civil action with regard to the same alleged
libel, be mulct in 41s. damages and some costs
which he cannot pay, then he goes to gaol for 1 2
months and become a bondsman for ever, as in-
solvency will not relieve him from liability. Thus,
the Judge, who, in the name of society at large,
condemns a man for libelling your fellow-citizen,
may only put him in gaol: but the gainer of the
civil verdict, who puts him into gaol, not impar-
tially and on public grounds, as in the oase of the
Judge, but merely for the purposes of his private
vengeance, is allowed to incarcerate him for 12
months, to say nothing of the legal powers which
he subsequently exercises over him and any pro-
perty he may acquire thereafter. In one case, the
defendant presumably goes to prison beoause the
Court has not thought that his oase can be met by
a fine; in the other, he goes to Darlinghurst be-
cause he is poor. His revengeful j udgment credi-
tor can send him to gaol for a year in a case in
which, were he tried criminally before a Judge, he
would perhaps, on conviction, be sentenced to no
more than a week’s imprisonment.
* * *
This state of things, which the Reid Bill does
not propose to remedy, Is worthy ©f Abyssinia,
where they cut steaks from living cattle; it also
reminds one of the Chinese system, under which
a pauperised debtor is handed over, not to justice,
but to his creditors, who are allowed to “ take it
out” of him by plucking off his floger-nails or
gouging out his eyes. It ie a state of things ad-
mirably characteristic of the legal system which
practically allowed no counsel to a Frenchman
who could speak no English, and was on trial for
his life; and which hanged him in the face of a
formidable doubt as to his guilt. As the New South
Wales Attorney-General rarely or ever grants his
fiat for a criminal prosecution in any case where
the defendant is worth legal powder and shot, a
rich and pecuniarily responsible defendant
has an advantage as compared with a de-
fendant who is notoriously moneyless. A libel
for which a man is put in gaol, civilly, for a year,
may not be worth an hour’s imprisonment. On
the other hand, it may be deserving of five years.
Should not the power of imprisoning be In the
hands of the Judges alone, as in other English-
speaking countries, and not in the hands of the
prosecutor, who is sworn to vengeance ?
* * m
No libel-law, we repeat, will evereatisfy the New
South Wales Press whioh, while it enables an un-
successful man-of-straw plaintiff to swindle a
defendant newspaper out of its costs, at the same
time allows a successful plaintiff to put into gaol
for a year an unsuccessful defendant who does
not pay on the nail costs and verdict to the utter-
most farthing. No libel law will ever satisfy the
New South Wales Press which allows a journalist
to be sent to gaol on civil process, and by a side-
wind ; the Press holds that if one man wants to
send another to gaol for libel, he (the plaintiff)
should be unable to do so unless he takes the re-
sponsibility of putting the defendant into the dock
and openly prosecuting him on a criminal infor-
mation. In the words of Mr. O’Sullivan: "Jus-
tice does not in all cases want man and money.”
If it does, let it get them by separate means.
• * *
(1.) What objection can there possibly he
to the adoption in New South Wales of
the modern English law of libel? Is charaoter
in New South Wales so much better and
more valuable than character in any other En-
glish-speaking country ? (2.) Is New South Wales,
because it was originally a convict colony, to retain
the seal of Lagdom on the brow of Law 2
A Chance for the Protectionists.
There is a tide in the affairs of men which, taken
at the flood, leads on to fortune, but if neglected
we all know what happens. There is a similar tide
in the affairs of nations and of classes which, if
neglected, will certainly bring a like result—a n(1
surely the present state of affairs in New South
Wales is a full spring-tide to the Protectionist
party. They must not let it pass unimproved-no
one can say when suoh another opportunity naay
arise if this one be neglected. New taxation,
direct or indirect, is admitted on all sides to he
necessary to meet a financial deficit, so that oW
great weapon of the enemies of Protection-the
cry of “ unnecessary taxation for party purposes ’
is placed out of their reach. Then our defioit
admitted to be only a temporary one arising P ftrt ’
from extravagant expenditure, and partly fr°
the long-continued drought, and Protective dutie
must, from their very nature, bring in the l ftr ® e
revenue at first which will gradually diminish
local manufactures inorease. It is not to
capitalists or the politicians that this matter mu
be left, but to the industrial classes whose b
ness it is to secure a sure market for their s
and labour—which are their only capital.
• m * .
As population increases every country wit
sources such as ours must and will have nasnu
tures, but the great point is under what cond e »
shall we have them—under the “ live and l o * l ~
theory of Protection, or under the “swea 1
doctrines of Freetrade. The following ro^ uB |y
SM. Herald will serve to show how luxU d r f&e
the labourers of Freetrade England live un jß g
latter. This is taken from an account of »®. geBl
of the Local Government Board at Ba
England:-
“Mr Mount said if a man had awn breun-
children, an they could give him now *•
mg 10 oushels of stone was 81b. of broad
money. He could not to.' umurtunatenae


like that, whilst, if they were to offer even 2a. 6d.
a day they would be swamped by thousands of
applicants. After some further discussion a sub-
committee was formed for the purpose of arrang-
ing a scale of pay, getting the necessary plant, &c.
It was agreed to ask the Local Government Board
to allow the present payment to be increased by
some 25 per cent, for this special labour. A man
with a wife and child will thus receive 4d. in
money, Bd, of grocery, and 5Lb. of bread. It is ex-
pected that this employment will be eagerly ac-
cepted.”
• * •
If we give our manufacturers no protection
against this semi-pauper labour of England and
Belgium they must in time, as an act of self-pre-
servation, import cheap labour. If the working
men in New South Wales will not move in this
matter, if they continue to leave the local manu-
facturer to be swamped with cheap European
goods imported— free - then they must not grumble
if at any time those manufacturers, in self-de-
fenoe, should import free coolie labour to work
their factories, and thus put themselves on a level
footing with the European manufacturers against
whom they are compelled to compete in the open
market. Machinery has now become so perfect
that Indian coolies or Chinamen, who will work
for 3s. 6d. a day, are quite oapable of usiag the
most oomplioated.
* * *
We are far from advooating any importation of
coolie labour, but it is evident that it would be
perfectly just and consistent with a Freetrade
policy. If a man may start, say, a rope factory in
Hong Kong, where he can get labourers for Is.
a day, and swamp our markets with his goods,
why may he not transplant his machinery, coolies
and all, to the banks of the Parramatta ? On what
logical grounds could the working-men of Sydney
interfere under our present Freetrade system ?
Surely, if the local manufacturer’s goods be not
protected from competition with the products of
this coolie labour, our labourers cannot, with
fairness, insist that tlwy shall be protected from
competition with the coolie labourer himself.
• • ■
It is an invariable custom for the Sydney
Freetrader to point out that in Protectionist
Victoria wages are no higher than in Free-
trade New South Wales. We are prepared
to admit that Protection will not raise wages
beyond the point at which it will pay to
manufacture—but we claim for Protection that
it keeps wages up. In Victoria, with one-third of
our area, with no land to sell, with no navigable
rivers, with no coal, and with a larger population,
wages are as high, and employment at least as
plentiful as in New Bouth Wales. What more
could be said in favour of Protection ? One very
noticeable effect of Freetrade with us—the com-
plete dependence of the labouring classes on two
or three staple industries—is not met with in Vic-
toria, for Protection necessitates multiplicity of
resources and modes of employment. A drought
on the Darling fills Sydney with unemployed, and
were it not that our city is at the present
time praotioally being rebuilt, the condition of our
labouring classes would just now be miserable
indeed. Whereas Victoria has been for the last
18 months quietly absorbing large draughts of men
from South Australia without showing any signs
Of overorowdingthe labour market.
• • •
It is an old stook Freetrade argument that Pro.
tection falls heavily on the farmer who, as Spencer
says, “feeds all.” This, we would point out, is
not the experience of America or Victoria; on the
contrary, Victoria owes her agricultural supre-
macy in no small degree to the superiority of her
locally-manufactured farming implements. In
New South Wales farmers have to work with im-
plements manufactured in England or America,
and a plough, however well adapted to the
wants of an English farmer, may bef quite
unsuitable to a Goulburn wheat-raiser, or
even the same plough that would suit the
latter may be by no means the one most
useful on a Clarence River maize-farm. In
Victoria, if a Gippsland or a Loddon farmer wants
an implement made to suit some peculiarity in his
land, he can simply send instructions to any of the
great Melbourne or Ballarat makers, and in a week
can get what he requires; but how is a Hunter
River farmer to get a barrow or a grubber pecu-
liarly made to suit him at the great Birmingham
factory, where implements he buys in Sydney
are manufactured ?
* ♦ »
Then, again, It is always assumed that Protection
permanently increases the cost of the articles
produced, but in this case as well, experience
denies the assumption, for Protection induces so
much enterprise and capital to be embarked in
manufacturing, that looal competition very soon
outs down the prices to the mere cost of produc-
tion, plus the smallest margin of profit at which
the manufacturer can continue to produce.
American machinery, paper, carriages, small-
arms, watches, sewiDg-maohines, furniture,
leatherware, and a thousand other articles of
commerce, compete successfully with English
goods, not only in Canada, but in India, China,
Australia, and even in England itself—while, as
anyone connected with Australian trade must
know, our young sister, Victoria, has already
established a very considerable intercolonial ex-
port-trade in manufactured goods; for, though
labour is dearer than in Europe, raw material is
usually cheaper. Judging, therefore, the future
by the past, it is only logical to assume that after a
few yearß of Protection it will be found that
almost its only result will be to keep our own
money circulating among our own people instead
of going into the pockets of men at the other end
of the world. When experience proves that local
competition insures to the consumer a good and
cheap article, what is the sense of sending our raw
material to be made up and mixed with “shoddy”
and then brought across the world to us again?
* * *
And further, as the wealth of a nation consists
largely in the amount it owns of useful and pro-
ductive property—(we use the word property in
its eoonomic sense—) the enormous quantity of
machinery sure to be imported under a system
which promotes and protects manufactures is a
potent argument in favour of this Protective
policy which we have for so long advocated.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tortured Texts.
As Soripture-texts taken by halves In the manner
of Cardinal Moran, or only quoted when favour-
able, as is the custom of Bishop Barry, are
affirmed to be binding upon this present genera-
tion, it is interesting to notice what results were
attained when the Jews, as a nation, were entirely
guided by the texts which these two fine old
crusted Theocrats would now use to defeat the
present efforts to reform the marriage law. As
the prelates say these dry bones of Scripture are
a national law to us, they should surely desire also
to bring back the degradation of women which
disgraced the Scriptural times. Under the Jews
to whom these much debated verses were meant
to apply, a woman; was a mere chattel: was
not asked in marriage, but was bought by
labour or money, and could be divorced by the
mere writing of her master. She was lower than
an American negro slave. Marriage under such
circumstances was mere concubinage. It was not
even a civil contract, for the woman had no civil
status, and therefore could not make a contract.
Womanly virtue was only valued because of its
market price. Nor is it strange that it should
have been so. The people who believed David to
have been “a man after God’s heart,” read of
his Don Juanesque adventures, and of the solace
which the first chapter of the first Book of Kings
announces him to have received in his old age,
and they naturally did likewise. Solomon was
the “ wisest man ” the world had known, yet his
lust required the degradation of 700 princesses and
300 concubines. And most of the patriarchs in
like manner degraded womanhood by indulging
in polygamy. It is inconsistency on the part of
the monogamous Barry, or the celibate Moran,
to try to foist one part of ancient law upon New
South Wales, while they do not try to bring back
the complete system. Let them come forward
and try to initiate legislation to make the
woman of this colony a congregation of
concubines, as the Jewish women were, when
these much-quoted words were spoken, with no
rights or status whatever, and subject to be stoned
to death by anyone who had a fancy for that
amusement if caught offending against their
“ protector.” Let these political bishops move to
abolish the Divorce Courts, and allow a man to
dismiss his wife with or without a character if she
puts too much salt In the soup, forttheMews could
do this. Let them petition the Home Government
to send out a Governor with as many wives as
Solomon had. Sir Charles Fitzroy was the best
colonial imitation we have ever had in Sydney,
and, strangely enough, he was as muoh courted
and flattered by the prelates of the day as any of
his successors have been. In fine, if these bishops
resurrect the dry-bones of a marriage system
which died with the elevation of women, let them
bring back also the complete body of the
system and set it up as an object of human
respect. It is no use to expeot a nation
of virtuous women to bind themselves to
commands given to a generation of harlots,
nor to expect men to limit their ideas on mar-
riage to the rules in force before marriage was
in existence. Unless these bishops can show that
marriage was known among the Jews their grandi-
loquent oratory can only interest those couples
among us whose union is unrecorded in the mar-
riage-register. Dr. Barry’s texts apply to jump,
across-the-broomstick unions, but not to any of a
more formal character.
4
Political Prelates.
“I am desired to inform you, beloved beretheren,
that by the desire of the Primate the petition
against the passing of the Extension of Divorce
Bill will be at the doors as you pass out, and I im- y
plore you all to sign it, to the end that this wicked
attempt to legislate in defiance of God’s Word
may be brought to nothing.” This was the kind of
stuff that came last Sunday from a hundred Angli-
can pulpits. And the righteous worshippers of
the Deity and Bishop Barry signed the petition
accordingly. Mr. John Buggins, senr., did it be-
cause “he thought as how he ought,” and Mrs.
Buggins signed for the same sufficient reason-
Then John Buggins, junr., aged 10, followed in
the way of his pious progenitors by scrawling his
oognomen, and Matilda Buggins, aged 6,
practised round-hand to the admiration of
her enraptured parentp, and Bartholomew
Buggins, aged 5, was also allowed to sign
because it was apparent that he did not want to
lose either of his parents by Divorce, and when
some one had written the name of Baby Buggins,
the generation of Bugginses trooped out to slow
music. And thus the signatures are mounting up
to the total of 100,000 desired by the political
Primate.
4.
Parkes and the Yokels.
Sir Henry Parkes has described the constituents
of Mr. O Sullivan as those “yokels,” or, as
another authority has it, “ yahoos down at Quean-
beyan.” Why the veteran threw aside his dignity
to abuse a whole constituency is not very clear,
but, replete with indignation against the Protec-
tionist champion, he probably thought it would
assist Freetrade if he blackguarded the men who
had returned one of the most vehement opponents
of the system. There is, as far as we know,
nothing to show that the electors of Quean-
beyan are less enlightened than those in
other parts of the country, and the contemptu-
ous term used by Sir Henry was probably in-
tended by him to apply to all rural voters.
Considering that he has often been glad to go to a
country electorate when “the door of political
life has been shut against him for ever” In
Sydney, this abuse is as ungrateful as it is libel-
lous. Far from believing that oountry electors
are less intelligent them those of cities, we are
persuaded that originality and clearness of thought
and mental vision, are more the attributes .of
yokels ” than of cockneys. English history shows
that it is from the agriculturalists that the most
able reformers have come, and it is in the country
that sooial revolutions have been Initiated and
carried out. The despised yokel Cromwell up-
set English monarchy, and at the present moment
another yokel, Joseph Arch, is working the en-
franchisement of his fellow-clodhoppers. The
English boroughs are nearly always under the
thumb of Toryism. Liberals and Radicals are
bred in the freer and clearer air of the
country. And it is the same in New South Wales.
A mom? the yokels the chief supporters of
Protection are found and the most liberal members
in the House are returned by “ yahoo ” and
“yokel” electorates. Prom among the inland
dwellers of New South Wales will come the poli-
tical reformers of the colony. It is by no m aans
certain that the land-tax does not in some degree
owe its origin to the efforts of Murrumbidgee
electors who argued with Mr. Dibbs urging it up-
on him as an improvement upon the property-tax
which he was then understood to favour. Follow-
ing up the idea, it is proposed to form a species of
land tax league at Wagga, which will probably be
the prolific parent of other “yokel” associations.
The Sydney Land Nationalisation League has done
good work, but it is upon the shoulders of the
country residents that the chief burden of the
task of re-adjusting the incidence of taxation will
fall. Probably Sir Henry is growing Conserva-
tive in his old age, and dreads the power of the
yokels whom he affects to despise.
The dear, good Bishop of Madagascar wants to
know why the people of Australasia should not aid
him in the mission to the Malagasies—a people
who, we understand, have plenty to eat and don’t
work much, and do no harm to anybody. We’ll
tell the Bishop why Australia should emphatically
object to help in the so-oalled “ conversion ” of any
niggers, even at the risk of letting the whole
black population of the world tumble into the Pit
and be grilled for all eternity, Australians want
more mission money yet to save the hundreds who
live in squalor in the back slums of Melbourne
and Sydney, and who will be found to be our
brothers and white, once they are scraped and
placed under the tap. The widows and children
of the Lithgow miners who were killed the other
day, are still unprovided for, and even were all
want banished from the land we should still object,
even with our dying breath, to help a set of parsons
who are too weak-minded for any really intellec-
tual occupation, in introducing to blackfellows a
system of civilisation which, while it gives good
billets to the clergy, murders the niggers physi-
cally, whatever it may do for those much-talked-
of abstractions that the missionaries glibly call
their “souls.”
—*
The Sydney D.T. “ acknowledges the very friendly
reference to the influence of the Press, and to the
way in which the Press does its work, which wa 8
made in such cordial terms on Sunday by Rev.
Dr. Jefferis.” No wonder. One good turn de-
serves another. Dr. Jefferis, who gets his long,
dull, washy, weak, maundering inconsequential
weekly yarns fully reported in a couple of Sydney
daily papers edited by clergymen, would have very
little notice taken of him by an impartial Press.
How many papers are there that would buy as
articles the Sunday night addresses of this shining
light of Congregationalism? The Press is the
breath of life to Dr. Jefferis and to a lot of
other clerical word-spouters. The Press is a good
horse for pious twaddlers to ride. The S.M. Herald
proudly stated the other day that it was bigger
than any London daily paper. There’s not much
to marvel at in that. No London paper gives four-
column reports of the miserable rant cackled by a
set of half-imbecile old women at sixpenny tea-
meetings. The galimatias of the fourth-rate Dis-
senting parsons who are eternally allowed to hold
forth, per medium of the Herald and D.T. re-
ports, would be treated in a very summary way
by any level-headed secular editor: he, finding no
juice in their jeremiads, would flip them into the
dust-bin. As things stand in Sydney, one parson is
edited by another parson, the unhappy result being
that our milk is soured and our breakfast tab le
made generally desolate by the morning paper,
with its gloomy, never-ending columns of witless
'clerical hogwash.
More law and, as a natural result, less justice.
The other day, a young gentleman named “ Fran-
Cis Piper, English, 26, and an architect,” stood
behind the spikes and faced the music at Sydney
Water Police Court, and was found well and truly
guilty of stealing—we beg the distinguished pri-
soner’s pardon—of conveying, a £2O gold watch
and trinkets from the fob of a fellow lodger into
his own. Six months’ retirement from the vulgar
public gaze were accorded Mr. Piper, who, while
the sentence was being passed, naively observed:
“ Excuse me, your worship, but before you go any
further might I request you not to give me hard
labour, as I have really never done any in all my
life.” The coolness of the request seems to have
“knocked ” the stipendiary silly, for he omitted the
much-dreaded clause, and so, when Francis—
whese crime was very likely the result of laziness
—returns to the madding crowd, he will have
the supreme satisfaction of being able to hold up
his head in the best society and proudly boast that,
although convicted of being a “ hotel barber,” and
a sneak thief, still he never demeaned himself, or
raised a cloud on his fair escutcheon by doing a
single turn of hard, honest labour. Next case:
Patrick Muldoon, found drunk—lo years in
Berrima Gaol, the first three in irons. We shali
presently hear of Francis Algernon Montmo-
renci Plantagenet de smythe, churchwarden
and saint, convicted of steal-
ing £50,000 trust-funds, saying: “May it please
your Honor. I have been, since my earliest
childhood, in the habit of taking two jugs-
full of soda-and-flzz immediately after get-
ting out of bed. And, your Honor, ever
since I increased my income flf cyfold by snavel-
ling widows’ money, it has been my invariable
custom to lunch on hock and oysters with a
devilled bird to follow. I like to dine at 7, to
smoke in bed, and to drive Totty de Sealskin, of
the Royal chorus, out to Coogee late in the even-
ing of the holy Sabbath Day. lam sure your
Honor will, under the circumstances, take a plea-
sure in seeing that I am permitted to continue
practising a regimen which, so far, has been at-
tended by the happiest physical results.” And
then his Honor, after wiping his spectacles, will
write in the case-book: “F.A.M. P. de Smythe to
get seven years and to be allowed while in gaol
tqlive as he darned well pleases. I have always
held that the object of sending a man to gaol is to
enable him to continue in habits of luxury and
laziness. Reformation be blowed. You can't
make a man who has been used to work with his
head any better by forcing him to weave door-
mats bearing the levend • Welcome’ in cocoa-nut
fibre, or to crack SLOaes.”
It is announced that the Henry Kendall memo-
rial fund—the poet has been in his grave three
years or so— now totals £125, which sum was
raised chiefly with the assistance of foreigners
who knew little of the dead man—some of
hßrdly read hia la u&uage.
*77 1 f- nd this after orators have orated, ille-
gible elegists have elegised, and Remen yi has
pI ayed We went to the funeral of the poet, and
house wher« fr t°v,« , w^ oa ! we aBk ed the particular
was W i a J an<l who the deceased
sanci-ahnnf Xt . B bouse U P there over the
°ouple hundred yards.’* “ What was
coves ” SuAh°nf m them ue wspapsr advertising
battle-axe of Hennessy was mightv and
resit*bv P the sea
K„® E ft oy the sea, in a grave decorated with sardine-
Wa label Vho * y a woode[i cross with a
Tf thnf rtni£?>» poet 8 b est monument is his poetry,
lived thanlS? Sirfw 11 !? , the world that he once
Derisn* 1 that beloD » 8 to the poet fade and
otterly—even as fade and perish the
ch?e g f bl wnrf n ed nr noB fh wdi ° h constitute the
cnier works of the rich rum-seller who
rests uneasily beneath that frozen white lie the
marble slab that commemorates his virtues. ' 9
>
There is very little new in the current
controversy on the question of Sir Al-
fred Stephen’s Divorce Extension Bill. We
have passed the stage when a principle was at
B f a he- We are living in an epoch of extension
viniat y, th nd D ? a r^. um ent that failed to keep in-
violate the principle can be of much validity now
ar £J? m ®pts # seldom have so many emi-
nent people cudgelled their brains over any cues-
fe!S re barren results. It a
?, eaB^ e i° one who muBt tackle this sort of litera-
»f op upO P A he side-issue raised by “ A
Wom a n in one of the Sydney dailies. She re-
Bothe 8 o the many Scriptural warrants that may be
cited, on one or other of which a man may Dut
fih^J^h 8 f ,rlfe * Bhe flnda no one citing a text to
?bow °P any ,_ground a woman may put away
| B u? concludes, and her conclusion
BheSH^- t «wh i ? ht ’ that Q o such text exists. Then
8 “® „ *1 What were our Lord s expressed Ideas
and sentiments on women’s right?" This ques-
ti n is worth the whole of a bishop’s sermon.
0. E. Jones, tile Victorian M.P., has issued
«Z» A Bt tbe Sydney Daily Telegraph for
some odd thousands, the claim being baaed on the
publication or a letter in the issue of Friday last.
Mr. Jones alleges that the substance of the com-
munication was untrue, and that the writer
P 0 ™!y inserted it with a view to prevent persons
oan!a attending his Home Rule ” lecture on the
same evenieg.
The alarmists have once more revised
calculation?, and now announce that the
wnrid will positively come to an end on May U,
l»8b, no postponement on aocount of the in-
clemency of the weather, or the fact of Lord Car-
lngtoa having other engagements on that day,
being allowed. This ought to be tidings of great
joy to Civil servants and others who have P N s
matui log on May 15.
The way in which Melbourne exporters
have been able to swindle the Victorian Govern-
ment has been by printing their own drawback
Panina form slightly different from that pre-
soribed by the Customs Act. The Customs
e ®» ren sm^ rt enough „ to. notice the
trifling difference. Something is to be dona to
check this in future, but the brethren, some of
re ® hinin ff lierhts in fashionable pews, keep
what they have grabbed. no.aooy
Robert Motes worth, at the venerable age
of 80, has resigned his position as a Judge of the
Supreme Court of Victoria, through physical in-
firmity. He proved himself to be theablest Judge
A^s^raii^, and £ IS decisions were leversed by
the Privy Council less often than those of any
e ,u er L sat on the colonial bench.
Judge Moles worth has ever been as humane
as he was just. He possessed a thoroughly judicial
had an UQrlvalled faculty for analysing
Says a daily paper:— “At the late N.S.W.
volunteer gatnering, the Bydney Lancers had to
perform camp-work, &c„ just the same as ordi-
nary troops. At one time we thought the Sydney
Lancers were ordinary troops. We knew that one of
them in his private capacity bawled very nieely
in an ordinary auction room; that another sold
excellent flannel-shirts; and so on. But we be-
came painfully aware that the Lanceahs weren't
ordinary troops when he saw ’em ride, and subse-
quently read in the presB-“Two Lancers fell from
their horses through the saddles turning round.”
The “Grand Old Man,” now physically
unable to stump tbe constituency, has issued a*u
eloquent and stirring manifesto to the Midlothian
electors on the Irish question. The fight to De
fought out next session is now fairly begun, and
unless there are foreign complications, all eyes will
be fixed on this the greatest Parliamentary battle
•hi 0 century. Mr. Gladstone announces hi.<
wuliDgnesa to greatly extend the powers of self-
government tor local affairs in Scotland and
Wales. His whole polioy forced on him after half
a century s experience seems to be (1) Decentrali-
sation for details, (3) Centralisation for Imperial
purposes. By the way, it is interesting to read
that, in Parnell s opinion, should the Premier’s
health hold up, a Parliament in Dublin is secure,
no matter whether Chamberlain or Trevelyan or
anyone else leaves the Cabinet.
An order has just gone forth from his Im-
minence, Kyardinal Mo -ran, prohibiting the ui=e
of all wind-instruments, and especially brass ones,
in the R.C. choirs of the Archdiocese This proves
that, so far as his musical abilities are concerned,
the Kyardinal will be preoious little use to the
angelic choirs of heaven. Our experience is that
up there brass instruments are the only ones in
use, with the exception of the harp. Then, again
if his Imminence has tabooed all wind instruments,
how is it he allows tbe organ to be played ? Per-
hapj he-fills his Pontifical head with the idea that
an organ is an instrument that is banged like a big
drum, oris played by the mouth, after the jaw's-
harp fashion. If an orchestra is allowed in a choir
at all it should be a full one, not the mongrel thing
his Imminence suggests, tor some of the must
beautiful portions of the music-scores are written
for the wind and brass instruments. If he really
wishes to abolish s .me of the most objectionable
wiDd organs in his churches he should do away
with some of his emi-ty-headed, leather-lunged
preachers. D’ye moind that, now ?
it is evident that the powers that rule the
Australian Mutual Provident Society, hitherto the
safest of Australian companies, have determined
to stretch a point or two in order to the establish-
ment of an English branch. When they proposed
to do so, a three-fourths majority of the member*
present decided against it, whereupon the direc-
tors, refusing to be bound by this division, pro-
cured what was meant to be a vote of the policy
holder?. To each of these latter a proxy form is to
be sent, but the absent voter cannot by this means
notify his decision. It merely empowers him to
authorise some person named to vote, as that
second person may choose. The will of the proxu
sender avails nothing, it is the person who re-
ceives the warrant who decides the question,
Thus if ten thousand votes be sent by proxy to
anyone, say a director, that director will have
so many votes at his disposal. Against this sys-
tem of disfranchisement of voters, discarded
years ago in the election of directors as beiDg
liable to abuse and corruption, a protest signed by
some 80 of the chiefest men in Sydney has been
handed in, and efforts have bsen made to obtain a
plebiscite. There seems to have been some irre-
gularity, to use a very mild term, in the tcrutinls-
ing of votes for the recent election of airectors,
but, as it is stated on very good authority that the
Law Courts will be asked to turn their attention
to the matter. It is not. perhaps, wise to discuss
tne proceedings now. The * chestnuts ” must be
tempting when such efforts are made to annex
them. By “ohestauts” we mean, of course,
policies to be obtained in England. We don’t at
an like the present attitude of the directors of the


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tyndall, it is said, is dying of sleepless-
ness. „
Parnell is a bachelor. He likes Home
Rule.
“The Will of the Lord.”
SIB ALFRED: “DON’T STOP ME! HE’LL KILL HER—LET ME HELP HER, I SAY.”
CHORUS OF GOSPEL-SHARPS: “NO, YOU MUST NOT INTERFERE. IT’S THE WILL OF THE LORD.”
Peter Campbell now turns the scale at
13st. 81b.
Carl von Bieren says he is going to take a
lot of libel actions against the Sydney papers.
We are glad to hear that the illness which
temporarily prostrated Judge Paul, of Queens-
land, is not paralysis, as previously stated, but a
gastric attack.
The problem of the moment in London,
says Society, is—What is the slight misunder-
standing between Her Majesty the Queen and Her
Royal Highness the Princess of Wales?
B. L. Farjeon has a new book out, “ In
a Silver Sea.” Farjeon. who is a Hebrew, was
once a compositor in Victoria and in N.Z ; his
literary debut was made in the latter colony.
Mudgee Taylor is to be banqueted on his
return from England. There is no man on earth
who looks more in want of a square feed, and if
only half what we hear is true “ Mudgee ” will
probably arrive very hungry.
“ Mr. J. A. Levy aoted as .judge at the in-
tercolonial eight-oar race,” says the Sydney D.T.
“ Mr. J. A. Levy ” did not do anything of the
sort. It was Mr. J. A. Levey. There is as much
difference between Levy and Levey as there is be-
tween Smith and Smythe.
The “ Life and Correspondence of the late
Bishop Colenso ” will shorty be published. His
correspondence was very extensive, and shows
through what bitter opposition he had to force
his way in establishing opinions which are now
held by all the leading men of his church.
Count Tolstoi, Russian novelist, has re-
nounoed literature for religion, and Intends
devoting his life to works of practical piety. We
have half a mind to follow suit. Of one thing the
world might be certain—we would make short
work of the slipshod way in which collections are
now taken up. “Pay as you go in ” would be our
motto. But then we’d give ’em something worth
hearing.
monument has been erected to the
Mahdi, near Omdurman. It is in the form of
a round tower, whitewashed on the outside,
whereon is painted in large black letters an in-
®°rJP^ion settiDg out that the Ambassador of
God rests beneath. Gordon also was God s
soldier. God must have many sides to his
character, if all parties are right in their ideas of
Him. Yet the poor Arabs have already set up
memorial of their hero, and Gordon’s monumtn
well, the subscriptions are said to ba 810
coming in.
Sir Henry Parkes says he has officially r® d
commended only one man for a C.M.G.-sn p» ~ g
that man was not a political supporter o ';
meritorious old Civil servant who had serve , jf
country for 50 years without reproach.


that’s a man’s reward, we hope that when we have
served our bleeding country for 50 years without
reproach, we shall be thoroughly poll-axed. As to
John Davies’ C.M G.-ship, if Sir Henry didn’t re-
commend that, it can’t have been because John
was not at one time a very particular and useful
friend of his.
Charles Rivers, the last Waterloo veteran
resident in Ireland, has just died, cefc. 102, according
to his own acoount. Charles claimed to have fought
under Wellington at Salamanca, Orthes and Vit-
toria, marched over the Pyrenees, and to have been
at Quatre Bras and Waterloo. We cannot vouch
for the correctness of the old blood-eater’s list,
with the exception of the item of Salamanca,
where we ourselves received a severe wound in
the veracity. We knew a man of the same name
at the battle of Marathon, but that was before his
time—one of his grandfathers, likely. They were
all good fighting-men, and liked their whisky.
The hoary saying that the devil looks well
after his own has received further confirmation
in the wreck of the steamer Taiaroa off the N.Z.
coast. Bhe left Wellington on Sunday morning
with 50 souls on board, some of them Salvation
Army people, and that same day she was wreoked
on the east coast, and only 14 of the passengers and
crew escaped to tell the tale. Several bookmakers
who attended the Island Bay races a few days
before intended to take passages in her. Before
doing so, however, they consulted their oracle by
tossing a ooin, and finding that it came down a
“ woman ” they concluded to wait for the next
boat.
Mr. R. H. Yallance, who was drowned in
the wreck of the Taiaroa, was a prominent racing
man in N.Z., and was well known in Australia.
He landed in Canterbury (N.Z.) when a boy, and at
an early age was with Mr. H. Redwood, ®f Marl-
borough, and afterwards with Mr. R. Ray. A few
years ago he joined Mr. Mason, and during their
partnership owned and raced some crack horses.
Mr. Yallance’s body was recovered and buried at
Flaxbourne, near Blenheim, where the racing
brotherhood propose to erect a handsome monu-
ment to his memory. At the Wellington and
Canterbury autumn races everybody wore mourn-
ing in his memory.
The distress in South Australia must be
universal. It has extended from the working
classes to the classes that never work at all. The
Civil servants are to suffer a reduction of 20 per
cent, on their salaries after June 30th, and the
Governor has been reluctantly compelled to dis-
charge his French cook. This last piece of economy
was a bitter trial for Sir William Robinson, but
there was no help for it. Sweeping reductions in
the gubernatorial bill of fare led to strained rela-
tions between Sir William and his chef. Eventu-
ally, M. de Liurnel (that’s the cook; received his
congi, and the modest “ sausage and mashed ” of
Government House is now dished up by a red-
armed Bridget.
Apropos of the alleged embezzlement of
£l3OO by Walker, the great Mokanna of the Ade-
laide Young Men’s Christian Association, the
Kapunda Herald says:—“ The man who goes to
reclaim others, when his own hands are red with
guilt, plays the part of the hypocrite, and when
he falls drags down with him into the mire the re-
ligion of which he has been the professed ex-
ponent. That convert must be well grounded in
the faith who remains true to his religion when
he makes the horrible discovery that the person
by whom he was guided and instructed is a crimi-
nal.” If these words be true it strikes us that a
whole heap of converts in Australia “ must be
well grounded in the faith,” or else fall from
grace in the most distressing manner.
Mr. Robert Ballard, engineer-in- chief of
N.Q. railways, who has departed from the service
after haviDg been requested by the Minister to
explain an allegation that he had lent to Bourke
and :M‘Bharry, a firm of railway contractors, the
sum of £5OOO at 25 per shent per annum, is the
same gentleman who, a few years since, was given
by the Queensland Parliament a handsome grant
—of some thousands—in recognition of savings
effected in railway construction through his in-
strumentality. Mr. Ballard will now have an op-
portunity of permanently devoting himself to his
favourite hobby—the elucidation of the mystery
surrounding the construction of Egyptian Pyra-
mids, on which he has, we believe, written a book;
and the public will devote itself to elucidating the
still greater mystery attendant on Mr. Ballard’s
little 25 per cent, transaction.
A worse puzzle than that old Scriptural
one of the woman whose seven husbands should
turn up on the Last Day comes down from Towns-
ville (Q.), and, says be who tells the yarn: “I don’t
care to ask whose children they will be in the
Resurrection, but I snould like to know whose
children they are just now. These are the facts.
On Alligator Creek, two men. Love and Dove,
married and settled down. In four years, at the
end of which they had each become responsible
for the parentage of three children, they
found it impossible to agree any longer with their
respective wives. The male Love longed for the
female Dove, the female Love hankered after the
male Dove. They agreed to txohange. Doves
and Loves shifted right about, and sinoe then there
are six more children. My puzzle is: How are
they related to the former broods ?”
The!late Emperor Napoleon, “the man of
Sedan," was not generally regarded as a humorist,
although he could occasionally throw off a little
Bardonic pleasantry. There has just come to
light a letter written by poor Nap. to Queen Vic-
toria, in December, 1856, which was evidently com-
posed in one of his merriest moods. The Emperor,
in speaking of the engagement between the Crown
Prinoe of Prussia and the Queen’s eldest daughter,
says:—“l do not ddubt that he will make the
Princess Royal happy, for he seems to be possessed
of every virtue befitting his age and rank.” The
sly joker evidently intended the Queen to infer
that her prospective son-in-law was naturally
fond of the ladies. The same criticism would
have applied with even greater force to Brigham
Young in the days of his youth. Brigham
possessed a rare stock of princely virtue.
Mr. Purves, the Melbourne barrister,
famous for his forensic ferocity, had an oppor-
tunity of distinguishing himself in the manner he
loves the other day. He was counsel for the de-
fendant in the libel case Gannon v. Nind. Gan-
non is connected with the Gippsland Indepen-
dent, Nind with the Warragul Guardian. In
his cross-examination of the plaintiff, Mr. Purves
caused Mr. Gannon to “ burst into a flood of
tears.” The man who could make a country
editor do this—without filling him up with rum
till he began to talk about his dead grandmother-
must be a being of extraordinary gifts- We would
like to have him over here to cross-examine Mr.
Barnet about the Post Office carvings for an hour
or two. It is time he was made to mourn. The
carvings he loves so much have made everybody
©lse (except Signor Sani) weep bitter tears often
enough.
Rev. Jesse Carey, of Ballarat, being dis-
satisfied with the position assigned him as Wes-
leyan minister, has resigned. For weeks past the
viotorian papers have been full of the squabbles
of.the Ballarat ministers as to who is to have the
largest salary and the most dignified position.
Brethren, he who is greatest among you let
him be the least,” was the sentiment of one whom
these godly persons profess to hold as an authority
over them. Also, while we are about it, we wcud
Suggest from our seoular standpoint, that mis
World is a transtory affair, we are mere bubbles
on the surface of the great tide of Time, and that
the olergy should not turn aside from the work
they have undertaken, because the unrighteous
and the scoffer fail to pay up all the shekel and
produce all the “marmalade” that the alleged
mtter-day representatives of the meek and lowly
■wazarene oonßider themselves entitled to.
There is something ludicrously ghastly,
remarks an English paper, in the methods adopted
uj crowned heads, and their sycophantic courtiers,
59 OOnoeal and disguise the ailments and inilrmi-
wes under which these royal persons suffer. The
"WMror of Germany, now 90, Is subject to fre-
nnent fits, and falls down head-over-heels. Forth-
+v,l“l the Court papers are commanded to assure
Jr®. Publics that his imperial Majesty has merely
an aS with some trifling accident, such, for example,
as stumbling over his sword, which irreyerently
intruded Itself between the imperial knees. Here,
in England, whenever the Queen shows her-
self to her subjects, the Court flunkeys take
good care that those papers immediately under
their control shall assure the public that she never
looked better in her life I Whilst the truth is, the
Queen has become very infirm, and can scarcely
hobble about, even with the assistance of a thick
stick, upon which she leans heavily.
The Christianity of a Young Men’s Chris-
tian Association is sometimes put to a practical
test. Mr. Alexander Walker, the defaulting Ade-
laide secretary, gave his particular Association an
opportunity to exercise the divine quality of
mercy. However, the members have decided to
prosecute misguided Alexander for the glory of
God and the ‘‘sake of example.” That human
charity which the Y.M.C.A.’s so proudly profess
might have prevailed in this matter, save for one
unfortunate suggestion. At a special meeting of
the Association, one of the ex-Presidents proposed
that their establishment should be closed for two
years as a sign of contrition and humiliation for
the backslidings of the late secretary. ’Twas a
beautiful and scriptural sort of notion. But a
funny flinty-hearted Christian knooked it on the
head by insinuating that it would be better to shut
up Mr. Walker for two years, and give him a
chance to express humiliation and contrition.
Yerily, verily, it were better to rob a burglar than
to embezzle the funds of the Lord’s elect. The
one may have mercy, but the others—none.
A truly melancholy document is the
affidavit of Mr. Henry Henty in support of his ap-
plication for a certificate of discharge in the Mel-
bourne Insolvency Court. No Australian can
read it without giving a sigh of sympathy
for the honoured bearer of an honoured name. It
appears that in March, 1882, when Mr. Henry
Henty set out on an unlucky trip to Europe he
was worth, in round figures, £90,000. He laid the
strictest injunctions upon his brother Herbert not
to enter into any doubtful speculations on behalf
of their joint firm. Henry Henty’s words are:—
“ I impressed upon him (Herbert) that at our ages
we required a cessation from daily work, and as
we had enough for own requirements there was no
need to run any risk in our business.” In the face
of these entreaties, the managing partner made
advances and endorsed bills without security to
such a tuno that when Henry Henty returned to
Melbourne in March, 1884, he was a ruined man.
Judge Noel feelingly observed that the affidavit
read almost like a romance. As illustrating the
culpable recklessness of brother Herbert, we may
quote a paragraph relating to that mercurial
*• speculator,” H. Mortimer Franklyn. Mr. Henry
Henty declares:—” Prior to my departure for
England, Franklyn, whose name I did not then
know, several times called at my office touting for
advertisements, and endeavoured to persuade me
to subscribe or insert an advertisement in some
Australian handbook he proposed publishing
(‘ Australia in 1880.’) He became so annoying,
that, I having heard at last
peremptorily ordered him out of the office.”
Yet, on his return from England, Mr. Henty
was amazed to discover that the company
engineered by the same Mortimer was the debtor
of his firm to the extent of oyer £13,000. That
must have been the bitterest pill of all for this
unfortunate victim of a partner’s folly.
The Maharajah Dhuleep Smgh asseverates
that he will go back to India and raise Cain if the
British Government will not give him more cash
to spend. He draws at the present time in lieu of
his claims upon Indian territory, over which our
gracious Queen is now Empress, £35,000 per annum,
but being a man of a reflective turn of mind, and
believing himself entitled to certain reversions, he
does not see why, if he can get more, he should
live oontentedly on such a plebeian pittance. The
present writer has an interest in the Maharajah. It
is not much more than a decade now sinoe, not far
from the heavy-browed Wrekin, in the fertile
county of (Shropshire, where we were tutoring in
a couple of dead languages a youngster of the
Cholmondeley brood, we happened to be thrown
into personal contact with the princely exile. Of
the big crowd in Squire Cholmondeley’s
the two faces that come oftenest up through
the mist of waters are those of Dhuleep
Singh and Mark Twain. Cholmondeley was
a rare old connoisseur of merit literary,
artistic, scientific, and social. In the shooting
seasons especially, his grounds in Shropshire were
a notable centre of representative people. On the
oooasion we refer to Mark did not come up to
anticipations we had formed of him. He was too
well-behaved, too orthodox, too conventional.
On the Sunday of the week he spent there,
he occupied a pew in the little ohurch of
whioh Cnolmondeley was patron, and oonduoted
himself as regularly as the old Duke of West-
minster who shared the cushion witn him, or
as the squire who answered to the prayers of the
little Ipate-faced parson, and hobbled round with
the plate at the offertory. Butthe Maharajah—well,
the Maharajah was above anticipations. Aswarthv,
stout, low-sized man, with his veins full of blood,
and his motions full of energy, he had little of the
look of an exile. He was a man one would in-
stinctively trus t. Far away from his own country
as he was he appeared to carry about no memories
that were painful. He was, by much, the best
shot in the grounds. He was, by much, the most
taking man every way. He was the soul of direct-
ness and frankness. He represents now that the
British Government in negotiating about the
value of the rights surrendered by him, in effect,
wheedled him. This we think not at all improbable.
Dhuleep (and Dhuleep’s father is said to nave had
the same qualities) possesses just the character
“ good business men ” like to deal with. Twenty-
five thousand pounds is a highly substantial sum,
and, in the abstract, we know of no sovereign
rights over any people that one payment of the
amount should not be an acquittance in full for;
yet it must be remembered that the Maharajah is
looking at it from a Prince’s point of view, and is
discussing it with others who regard statements
from such a view as evidence. The present state
of the controversy is, that the Maharajah is in-
formed that if he go to India the British Govern-
ment will arrest him, expel him, and stop his screw
altogether.
A Mr. C. E. Deeley, of Derby, is per-
mitted to state in the S.M. Herald that the Kim-
berley (W.A.) goldfield is “going to be the biggest
field in Australia.” He says:-“I bought Bioz.
from two men yesterday, 220 z. from another, lloz.
from another, and 7oz. from another. We hear of
another party close to here who have 210 oz. with
them, one piece weighing 19 ounces. It is a beau-
tiful sample of gold, quite as good as the Palmer
gold. What we have purchased runs from soz. to
loz., the pieces being all waterworn, except one
parcel, which was evidently got on the surface
from a rough leader. All I am afraid of is a big
rush of men with no money. This is the nearest
port, and the best road is from here; but the field
is 30!) miles inland at least, and poor men cannot
get there. It never will be a poor man’s diggings.
They must have horses.” Diggers who feel in-
clined to “ rush ” will please remember that Mr.
Deeley is a storekeeper and writes from a land of
alligators, niggers, mosquitoes, dust-storms, and
various other things.
Law laughs at everything in the way of
Justice. A few days ago a one-armed man who
had stayed too long quaffing koko at the Japanese
village rolled into Sydney Domain and fell asleep.
Presently the ever watchful park-thief came
along, and was “ going throughhis prey, when
a detective arrived and caught his man in the
very act—in fact, he had to help him to haul his
hand out of the sleeper’s pocket. Nevertheless,
Judge Wilkinson acquitted the prisoner, and, as
the law reads, justly too. It appears that the one-
armed man had his money in his right-hand
trousers pocket, and the thief was found with his
hand in the left. As there was nothing but a heap
of emptiness in the left-hand pocket, the Judge
told the jury to acquit the man, because he could
not be convicted of attempting to take property
from a place when there was not any there to
take. Then the prisoner stepped down and shook
the one-armed prosecutor by tbe hand while the
dumb-founded D. went out, stole his own boots,
and then arrested himself for highway robbery.
A story comes from America, where all
good stories come from, of a wealthy teetotaller
who died at sea. He was not doubled up in a
gunny-bag and yanked overboard, as a newspaper
man would have been, but was coiled comfort-
ably Inside a cask full of Jamaica rum and shipped
off to his folks in Chicago. It was tne first time he
ever came home in liquor, and being strict tem-
perance people his family were greatly annoyed,
and, as often happens in such cases, they didn’t
know exactly what to do with him. Ultimately,
however, they solved the difficulty, and lessened
the funeral costs by having him buried as he was—
rum, cask, and all:
Extract from a private letter received in
Sydney from the “ New El Dorado,” Western Aus-
tralia. We don’t vouch for its accuraoy, but
print it for what it is worth, and in the hope that
people, before leaving the older colony, will make
proper enquiries as to the real prospects of the
new:—“Fremantle and Perth, and the country
within 100 miles, are little else but an ocean of sand.
Nothing will grow. People and animals alike all
have a starvation look. Fremantle has a popu-
lation of about 0000, Perth about 8000, and hun-
dreds of people who drifted here on false repre-
sentations would willingly return home if they
had anything to go with. Town lots are held at
Sydney and Melbourne prices. Not a shilling can
be obtained from the banks. Taking things all in
all, this place is no good, and the best thing you
or any other man om do is to stay away from it.
Carpenters receive 7s. 6d. per day of 9)4 hours*
work; board, 80s. per week. Everything that
people live on has to be shipped here from Mel-
bourne; not even a potato is raised here. The
few contracts that are let are manipulated by a
clique composed of Government officials. A new
man has no chance unless he will work for 7s. 6d.
per day and starve. Tne town has no water, or
at least what little they have is bad. I would not
stay here if they were to give me half the sand-
banks in Perth. I will return to Melbourne on
the next steamer. I say, place no confidence
whatever in anyone who will speak to you in
favour of this God-forsaken country.” We may
add that the writer of the letter is an American,
by trade a carpenter and builder. He went to
West Australia some months ago intending to
establish himself in business as a builder, if pos-
sible. He was prepared to work pjs a journeyman
carpenter until suoh timo as' an opportunity
offered to invest his capital.
SHE KNEW HIM.
SARCASTIC WIFE: ‘COMING HOME AS USUAL, I SUPPOSE?”
FOND OF STAYING OUT LATE HUSBAND: "YES, CERTAINLY.”
SARCASTIC WIFE: “WELL, PUT THIS LETTER IN THE FIRST MAIL IN THE MORNING
AND IF YOU MEET THE MILKMAN TELL HIM TO LEAVE TWO QUARTS.”
OUR EPITAPH FOR HIM.
Here lies a man—a worthy chum,
Who wore the blue and lectured some
To save his fellow creatures from
Intoxicating drinks. Now dumb
He lies preserved in good old rum
(Choke full of liquor is his turn)
Till Gabriel with nis trump and drum
Appears and makes a mighty hum,
And wakes him up to Kingdom Come.
Why do you drink W olfe’s Schnapps? Because
I know from experience it does me good.
DIVES AND LAZARUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Lloyd’s Weekly of March 13th i—
‘Mr. Wyatt held an Inquest at Camberwell, on
Monday, on the body of John Ranee, aged 13 years,
son of a sawyer, residiog at 10 Toulon-street, Cam-
berwell. The parents of the deceased were very
poor, and had seven other ehildren. Occasionally
they had food at home, but more frequently the
children went to a local soup-kitchen, and with
what they obtained there and at a ragged sohool,
they managed to exist. According to nis mother’s
evidence, deceased had a great crewing for food,
and because he could not get any on Saturday he got
into a violent passion and threw himself against
the wall, which he struck and kioked. A moment
or two later he was seized with a fit, and expired
before medical aid arrived. The privation which
the deceased had undergone was shown by the
medical evidence. Dr. Gallic stated that the body
was terribly emaciated and the organs congested, g
Bad, wicked, violent, rebellious lad l
With his unthankful hands and feet he battered a
Brick wall, and all for what ? Because he had
No food on Saturday I
Suoh acts might make men think what Brltoili
say
About the glory of the British nation, a lie-
What if he had no food on Saturday ?
He had occasionally.
Did he reflect that overplus of food
Means serious trouble to such food’s receptacle,
Or that the son of Albert, called the Good,
With pains dyspeptic, ill,
Is put upon short commons, that front him
They plant the currant loaf and jam of Straws
berry—
That of cold fowl he can get wing or limb.
Not e’en by robbery ?
Was he aware that from the Prinoe they hide
The steak, and even take the frying-pan away f
Most likely, if he was, the young wretch cried:
"My troubles, anyway I”
Such horrid boys bring much discredit to
The good old land of palaces and poorhouses
Where now, with a substantial rise of screw,
Dear Bishop Moorhouse is.
Did this young ingrate in that great Book read
(Which the true source of greatness to Great
Britain is),
“The poor are always with us,” then proceed
To sing the Litanies ?
Did he not know that unto certain Hell
Could only lead suoh evil fleshly ways as his ?
Or did he have the thought that Camberwell
As bad as blazes is ?
Seven other children, too! We strongly say
Marriage among the poor is a dread oanoer, td
Which the law should put a stop. Some day
This man must answer to
The oharge of having given life to an
Unruly son—whom we scarce hope heaven’s
succour for—
Why will the poor beget more ohildren than
They can earn tucker for ?
Did this imprudent sawyer, when he wed,
aII thlB ? Oh no 1 his passions ran away
with all his prudence, and he lightly said,
“.My troubles! anyway.”
♦ • ♦ * ♦
In the same country where this naughty boy
Cut up so rough beoause he had no viotuals in
His stomach, there are thousands who enjoy
(And count it little sin)
The best of everything—to whom this earth
Is,Heaven, whose lives have no hours grim and
mirk as his,
But seem, right from the moment of their birth,
So many circuses.
Preachers, to whom, to guide to ways divine,
A means to pork and beans and lordly liquor is •
You’ve no idea what a judge of wine
The average vicar is I
Bishops, who from rich carven pulpits tell
How man’s frail soul oft even unto perdition,
errs,
But never seek to lift from earthly hell
Their poor parishioners I
Great lords, who seize with eager jewelled hand
The wages wrung from starving workmen’s dis-
tresses
To spend in ballet-danoers’ bouquets, and
Twelve-year-old mistresses.
Stern factory masters—lords of many mnn?,
Who to have yet more mills cold hard lives plan
away,
And cry, regarding others’ woes and ills,
“ Our troubles! anyway.”
Who knows though, after all, but, past the grave.
Out of this life, beyond the want and grime of it
This very violent sinful boy will have
A better time of it 1
Who knows but that, if at heaven’s gate he knooktf
(We don’t think that his heart should have suoh
hope in it),
An angel with white wings and radiant looks
At once may open it ?
Who knows, but his emaoiated ghost,
As gaunt and wild as one from shades Infernal
come,
May put on flesh and sing among the host
To joy eternal come ?
Who knows but he may have a ehanoe to peer
(Who sees another’s pain his own bliss relish eg
The more) into the grisly realms of fear
Where torture hellish is ?
Who knows but, as he sits with folded wings
And looks upon the scene with interest, and
leisurely,
With piteous voice the bishops, peers, and kings,
Whose paths through pleasure lay
On earth, will cry to him, “ Good angel 1 fly
Jfor water; hasten for a billy-can—away I ” ?
Who knows but he will cheerfully reply,
“ My troubles I anyway.”
cJtorrt Schnapps should ha in every Camp
Wherever you go always ask and obtalh th#
celebrated Wolfits Schnapps. wn tnp


%
B A T R 1 ROYAL.
Under tbe direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mttsgroti.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L- Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
NINTH WKBK and Continued Success of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGttOVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, MAY 6,
and every evening until further notice,
at 8 o’clock precisely,
terminating at 10.40, will be acted, A. W. Pinero 8
famous farcial comedy,
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls. 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatlo season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
T Y
H E A T K B.
Mr. John Solomon
Mr. B. N. Jones.
32nd
GA I B
Lessee
Business Manager.
32nd. 32nd,
and »•
LAST WEEK of the
DAMPIER SEASON.
Two favourite plays during this week,
THE BLACK FLAG
and HAMLET.
FRIDAY, MAY 7, HAMLET.
Manager for Mr. Dampier FRED. GUNTHER
OAD M M Y
O r
MUSIC.
Sole Proprietor and 'Manager .. F. B. Hiscocks.
3rd YEAR. 3rd
And still the popular and Fashionable Resort.
Once again we record another Great Hit of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HIbCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Specialty Union
in Another Change of Programme.
LAST TWO NIGHTS. LAST TWO NIGHTS.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereaqh-strket,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee ~ ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampier.
Business Manager . . ... Mr. Fred. Gunther.
SATURDAY, MAY 8,
Inauguration of the DAMPIER SEASON.
SATURDAY, MAY 8,
for the first time in Sydney, and Every Evening
until further notice, called the
FLYING DUTCHMAN,
and entitled
THE PHANTOM SHIP.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
Popular Circle, 35,, Stalls, 2s, Pitls
Manager (for Mr. Frank Smith): Mr. J. GRANT.
THE ALHAMBRA MUBIC
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL.
Lessee and Director
Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioea: Orchestra ohalrs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony. Is.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7.30 o’clook.
H
AYE YOU SEEN THE JAPANESE?
» at the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Daily, at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
THE MOST NOVEL, INSTRUCTIVE, and
AMUSING EXHIBITION OF THE AGE.
The Fashionable Promenade of Sydney, where
everyone can meet everyone else.
JAPANESE MANUFACTURES.
JAPANESE PERFORMANCES.
Fascinating Japanese ladies in the
tea house.
Japanese temple.
Japanese lanterns.
PATEK’S BAND.
Upwards of 31,000 people have already witnessed
this Brobdingnagian Galaxy of Attraction.
Admission, Two Shillings : Children, half-price.
Sole Director, PEMBERTON W. WILLARD.
Business Manager, H. P. LYONS.
LYNCH BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Manager .. . . .. Harry Lynch.
SOUTHERN TOUR.
Wagga—Thursday, Friday, Saturday, May 6, .7, 8
Adelong—Monday, Thursday, May 10 and 13
Tumut—Tuesday, Wednesday, May 11. 12
Gundagai—Friday, Saturday, May 14,15
Yass—Monday, Tuesday, May 17,18
Murrumburrah —Wednesday, May 19
Burrowa—Thursday, Friday, May 20, 21
Crookwell—Saturday, Monday, 22, 24.
FOLLY’S SYONIY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wjrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e„ apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
D
o
B B Y N S’ HA
Junee Junction.
L L,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNB,
Proprietor.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED’,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
h V. WAREHAM, Manager.
lEDERAL COFFEE PALACE COMPANY
LIMITED,
7 Collins-etreet West.
CAPITAL-100,000 Shares of £1 Each.
30,000 Snares are Still Under Offer,
64,000 having been Taken Up.
TEttMS of PAYMENT as follows:
On application, Is per Share.
On Allotment (in one month) Is 6d per Share.
First Call, 3pst July, 1886, 2s 6d per Share.
Second Call. 30th October, 1686.2 s 6d per Share.
Third Call, 31st January, 1887,2 s 6d per Share.
Further calls, if required, at not lessthan three
months, intervals. If the whole number of shares
be issued, it is not expected that more than 12s 6d
per share will be called up.
A commission of 3d per share will be allowed to
all agents securing applications.
Six per cent, interest will be given upon all
sums paid in advance of the above dates.
JAMES MIRAMB, Secretary.
20th April, 1880.
E
VKRYBODY 1
SHOULD USB f
PEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI Georre-street, Sydney.
The WINE off the PFERAGE.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H. h<i Prince of Wales.
H.M. the King ef the Netherlands.
sdfg
H./.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New .South w,*!es :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Easter Holidays, 1886.
EVERYONE SHOULD SEE
THE CELEBRATED
CHICAGO
GAMP FURNITURE.
MAY BE
INSPECTED AT
27 JAMIESON-STREET.
R. MIORISON STEWART.
v c
%4"‘
o
Intending Visitors to the Colonial Exhibition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
Carried 1935 passengers last season. Six horses to
be driven up Holywell Hill, St. Albans.
Dr. Rumney (of ‘‘RIDGE’S FOOD ’ fame) is again
running his celebrated six-horse Btage Coacb,
“THE WONDER,” Letweea London and ot. Albans,
leaving Hatchett's Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
every morning at 10 45, returning to Piccadilly at
6.15, p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St Albans for lunch and
nassengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is
one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other Particulars apply to
• WONDER ” Coach Oifice, Hatchett's Hotel, Pic-
cadilly, London, England.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITT AGON G.
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Oood Table and Reasonable Terms,
J. MURPHY S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT Sf LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tins ciiy.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at nates never before attempted In this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
*
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
mm.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
sd
fgsd
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet>
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
o
BE& 1 ?
bavis* seh' m y
SPECIALITIES:
Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
Albo Carbon Lght.
*TBD WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
ELECTRO-PLa. , n j 8 Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
Gas Cooking Stoves Le*. ’TNG MACHINES, &c., &C.
BRADFORD’S WASH.
"N thefaceof the^j)}3i nor^
Jf 5 * valueoflandaroundbrt
u i,cbo£ t heopemngofrailwayno
time s
ho uld
belost
i n sec
ur ing
af r ee
hoi da
11 otm.
en t or
model
far mi
n this!
he gar
den of
new so,
\ith\xai
les for-
itreqn
ireano
prop)’
etto'
aat a
s soon
as the
railw-
ay ope
nseno
rmou
sproli
ts will
he rea
lizedb
y thos
e who
haves
uffl cie
nt for
esigh
t tose
curela
ndno-
wthnt.
it is at.
anomii
nalvali
ue a»
d atng>
distan
tdatet
he pro
dime ts.
of this
distri
ctwill
suppl
y thel
—■—fc raTOf „ ...
A Y MAfT will never
oveariiy jk an op p C .rtunity of
juioar oting pjg p erso nal and
■ jaily interests, especially
ifliner investment will enable
Mm tor „ .. „
> lay the foundation of a
dURE
fortune, to be ae-
quired by judicious
expenditure of a few
shillings monthly
and as it is an undoubted fact that
investment in land in rising districts is
by far the most profitable fund into
which infinitesimal payments can
be put to ensure to the small
capitalist the foundrttiOn of a sure
FORTUNE
it there-
fore be
ho ves
all who
are desirousof making: assail beginnings
with the main object oi igireat results to
avail themselves of i toe 'Opportunity
when it arises, and wit! i<ot«t loss of time
send for a copy of the F&ikiteks’, Set-
tlers’, and Investor I s ‘©uide, which
will be forwarded free t> »ainy address on
application to Messrs,
BOYD St KJNG,
AUCTION ■'EI”'RS,
96 PITT S TOEE'i”,
SYDN
ong fe
It wan
tof ou
rcityo
£ sydn
ey ast
he ind
i s p nt
ablefa
ct sta
ndsou
tpred
o min
ant tli
at one
acre o
f gosf
ordag
ric ult
uralla
nd is e
qua 11
oflvea
cresin
the co
untyo
f cum
berlan
di n a
dditio
n to w
hich a
hold e
r hasa
mag n
i fi cen
tproi>
erty n
ear th
e coas
tandi
nthev
icinit
y ofah
arbou
rwhic
hisdes
tinedt
o witn
ess su
ch see
nes of
busy 1
ifeasn
owma
rkthe
every
ilnylit'
eof ne<vcastleorsydneycoal tin
what,inorecanformthefounda
cen.cre ?boy datidkingauc tion e
itWJTmii leialandwt 'ter
lioucfta grcatinlam \andseapoit
<»<psy<Sti ey.
Wood-Working am / Sa w-Mih' Machinery.
H. P. GRF.GOR Y and CO.,
Are SOLE AG El ITS for
J. A. FAY & CO., CINCINNATI
AND CARRY A I*YRG/ft i£F2> CK OP TEfMM tt CELEBRATE 0 MACHINES.
BVBRY REQUISIT k VOS, WC-OD-WOKISI* & AND SAW-HILLiING IN STOCK*
Send: fbr Catalogues* a ad Prices
Offices and Store's ;\7 PITT STUM : -T, Circular Quay, Sydney.


SUNDRY SHOWS
TflfiATß* ROT At—“ The Magistrate ” p. 8
gaiety Theatre—” The Black Flag ”
APHAM bra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce
academy or Music.—Federal Minstrels ~
royal standard Theatrb~“ The Phantom
Ship ” ”
Exhibition Building- Japanese village .. „
There was a change from grave to gay
at Sydney Royal on Saturday night. The blood-
curdling horrors of Merritt and Conquest gave
place to the slender funniments of A. W. Pinero.
R rphe Magistrate,” which is the title of the play in
nuestion, is a farcical comedy of nearly two years
standing, with a reputation that is good, and no
doubt, honestly acquired. It is very light, it asks
no thinking. It does not want much actipg. A
widow, Mrs. FarriDgdon, marries a magistrate,
Mr Posset. This widow has a son by her former
marriage, and to make herself in the eyes of her
husband younger than she really is, she
has to make her boy, Cis. 14, instead of ID years of
ave. Cis, while looked upon as a child, aots as a
snrightly youth of 19, and succeeds in involving
his stepfather in indecorous, and from a magis-
terial point of view, ludiorously pathetic scrapes.
• * *
Mr. Anson played the part of Mr. Posset.
It appears to be the fate of .this actor while in
Svdney to keep on demonstrating that he is fit for
much better business than that which engages
him. The talent he displayed in “Grimaldi” when
he first arrived here belonged to a high order. In
its line tangible triumphs were attainable. His
voice possessed that sympathy of tone which adds
ho much to the value of the author s words. But
instead of working through the emotional schoiil,
where opportunities would be given for the d is-
olav of such qualities, Mr. Anson spends his time
on parts that any moderately good all-round man
could fill. Miss Watt-Tanner, as Mrs. Posset, does
her work with energy. The way she runs about
and finally creeps under the table when the police
enter the Hotel des Princes show that she is a per-
son on whom a hint is not thrown away.
• • *
Mr. Posset’s intoxication is a strong point
with the audience. He takes too much cham-
pagne or spirit of some kind and carouses wildly.
The semi-inebriate’s attempt to chorus a song or
piaculate some of the inaptitudes of the situation
is the signal for applause. When he appears all
What They Landed For.
Recent Victorian newspapers have been in a state of double-leaded agitation over a Russian Man-of-war which
anchored off the coast, and sent a detachment of men on shore for some mysterious purpose. On cabling to the Russian
Government for an explanation, we find that the men were sent ashore to boil the billy, and not to rob the Cabbage
Garden, or make secret surveys.
drabbled and spattered« With mud. and holding his
siok head between his hands, the house is ravished.
It is in these things the fun is. There is no wit in
the dialogue. It is supposed to be wholly trans-
muted into situation. That shows how much
alike we are now to what our ancestors were when
Fielding and Smollet wrote for them. A good
drinking-bout made an interesting s'jene in those
days. A couple of policemen, a fight with single-
sticks, and a heip of broken furniture, with
drunkards littered about, made a fine spectacle.
But Fielding and his friends put a little fancy into
their lines. There was a gleam of wit frequently
let in upon the narrative. Mr. Pinero, noticing
that the resemblance between us and our ances-
tors was one wholly of affection for situation,
treated the wit and humour of language as super-
fluities. Consequently, his Cis Farringdon is a
Tom Jones with the head off He will be liked
better for that. It would unsteady the comedy if
any character in it showed he had any head. That
is why we began by saying that the reputation
“ The Magistrate” has achieved was, in all proba-
bility, honestly come by.
* * *
As placed on the boards, the play has
every chance. The parts are all ably filled. The
movements are smooth. From beginning to end
laughter is spontaneous.
* * * *
At Sydney Opera House the much-dis-
cussed and considerably-anticipated “Fantine”
was produced on Saturday last. Like a number
of other operas intended to be comic and other-
wise, its chief figure is a street-singer, who passes
through manifold and much tribulation, from
whioh she ascends to a lofty position and lives
happily ever after. The English version is by
B.E. Woolf, and from the occasional leyelness of
the dialogue, we are rather inclined to post him as
a sheep in Weolt’s clothing. But as if to atone for
this flatneßß of parts of the libretto, there are some
quips and cranks whioh, like the fire at Fletcher 's
Photographic saloon, are instrumental in bringing
down the house. The music is brisk, bright, and
bubbling, occasionally reminiscent of amither
operetta, but only very Slightly so. Miss Plaisted,
-M Fantine, of course has the big end of the work,
and it isßUch as suits her a meroeil, which, for the
benefit of the uninitiated, we may explain, means
fight down to the ground. Her writing-lesson
-duet with Charles Harding in the first act is a
-Simple daisy; of course the lesson ends with some
kissing business. It always does when a pretty
woman and a lovely youth are educating together,
wears ago, when we.were working"*at the front
- end of our mental training we had a pretty mis-
tress, and with all due modesty, we may mention
that we were a lovely youth. Every day it hap-
pened that some error required that we should
be kept in, and the punishment was summarily
concluded by osculation. Ah, us! those were
happy days, although the school-marm was not
half so pretty as Grade Plaisted, and was not fit
to sing in the same paddock with ner. Miss Plaisted
also has another song which is likely to be banged
out of half the time-payment pianos in the
suburbs during the next six months; it relates the
wonderful luok of a little sailor who made his
pile in a foreign land.
v * *
Of the cake appurtenant to “ Fantine,” a
remarkably large section goes to Miss Lambert.
Her singing and acting throughout are a heap
better than anything one could expect to see for
three bob circle. Whatever she dots is carefully
done, and whatever she does carefully is worth
watching. Miss Nelly Coates, the wife of Kirsoh-
wasser, shows a decided inclination to wear an-
other—divided-article of attire, but her per-
formance was not exasperatingly humorous. Mr.
Carey acted well throughout, and knocked out his
song, “It’s Perplexing,” so neatly in three rounds
that the referees of the circle made it stand up to
him for two rounds more, when it was again flat-
tened.withlequal celerity. Kirschwasser comported
himself artistically, and seemed perfectly at ease
except when in command of his ” Swiss Guards.”
Their performance was provocative of a simple
and unrestrained howl. It was not that they
meant to be comic, far from it, but in an ill-ad-
vised moment Kirschwasser tried to drill them,
and that was the cause of the trouble. “ Present
arms ” was interpreted by one to mean “ fix bayo-
nets,” another obeyed by jobbing a fat chorus-
man in the turn, a third slowly and solemnly
dropped his rifle on to his favourite corn, while
the fourth pointed his piece towards the flies as
though he intended to have a plug atTeboutt’s
new comet, and then a universal yell of “ Why
don’t you go to the Soudan?” hurtled from the
hilarious pit. This noble army of four has repre-
sented half the armies of Europe in their time,
but they hardly seem to have learnt which is the
business end of a gun yet.
* * *
We have so far overlooked Charles Hard-
ing, but that is a thing which no one who saw the
opera can do. Which is as neat a compliment as
we can spare him this issue. Taken all through,
“ Fantine ” is a merry and joyous production, and
should become as popular as a money-lender's
murder. When the choruses improve considerably
they will be much better.
* * * *
Engineered by Harry Samuel, the Widow
O’Brien has been showing in “Fun on the Bristol’
at Bathurst, and is billed for Orange on Thursday,
the 6th inst. After playing at the latter city for
one consecutive night the Sheridan Company re-
occupy their old quarters at Sydney Gaiety, open-
ing on Saturday, Bth May. Miss May Livingstone
is, cela va sans dire , in the cast, so are Sophie
Harris, Knight Aston, and a lot of other nine
people.
* * *
The programme at Sydney Alhambra
changes as often ss a country member’s principles,
but with this difference in favour of the Alham-
bra, its ohang is always an improvement. The
new bill, although it contains some relics of the
Middle Ages in the shape of ballads, &c., is 80 de-
grees better than the last, and ought to fetch the
public for a month to come. Lucy Frazer’s vocal-
ity, Minnie Hope’s figure, Shipp’s feet, and Ida
Francis’ ravishing loveliness combine to make the
show hum.
* # • *
The struggle which has been raging for the
last month at Sydney Olympic, between the Vital
Spark and grim Adversity, is over, and gloom now
reigns where bottled beer, ham sandwiches, and
varie y business in vain tried to allure the great
unwashed. „
m m m m
Last week we were saying that oolonial
pilgrims to the London Exhibition would be able
to renew acquaintance with ancient “stars” of
Italian opera at Her Majesty’s Theatre. We see,
however, that the season at that house has come
to an abrupt finale. It died from natural causes.
The band and stage carpenters had been working
for “love,” until they wearied of the labour, and
struck for good during a performance of “ Faust.’’
When the manager made his distressing announce-
ment of the situation, certain wags among the
audience pitched coppers upon the stage after
the fashion that prevails at Hallelujah-meetings.
Some of the others went for the furniture, and
carried off pieces of the pit in their outraged
pockets. We are dwelling warningly upon these
details because there is an Italian Opera soheme
afoot in Melbourne. A few well-meaning people
are persuaded that the Australian public is yearn-
ing lor a resurrection of this defunct English fad,
and that a form of entertainment which is fairly
played out in conservative London, is eminently
adapted to young civilisation in the South. Now
may Heaven forbid that wo should decry the
beauties of Italian operas—such things must be
full of interest, for such as know what they are
all about. We were never far enough advanoed
in the language ourselves. In vain have we
attempted to follow Patti, Marie Rozs, poor Tiet-
jpns. or M. Faure with the “ book.” We were a
page behind or a page in front, except at the times
when somebody was shot. Then, looking up,
(falls dead ) in the book, we could get a fresh start.
Taking all these troubles into consideration, and
speaking as one of the uncultured crowd, we
think that Melbourne and Sydney will be bad
havens of refuge for poor old hunted Grand
Opera. Gilbert and Sullivan, and legs, are what
we can do with at present. Yes.
Beneath the sable folds of the Dampierian
dramatic banner, a stream of hilarious humanity
has nooturnally swirled, and a generous tribute
has consequently accrued to all concerned in the
uplifting of the murky standard. All of which
means that the “Black Flag” at the Sydney
Gaiety has landed the oof to a moderate extent
during its run. On Friday, Mr. Dampier will trot
out “ Hamlet,” and next day will trot out himself
and take up his quarters at the Royal Standard
Theatre a few blocks lower down, where the
“ Phantom Ship ” will drop her mizen halyards,
close-reef the booby-hatch, set the sheet-anchor,
and cruise round for a season.
• * * *
We are delighted to hear by wire that the
production at Brisbane by MacMahon and Leitch’s
Company of a dramatised version of Marcus
Clarke’s “ His Natural Life ” has been “ a remark-
able success,” and has “attracted immense
audiences,” and that “ the Courier has devoted a
three-column notice to the new play.” As we
haven’t yet had time to read the critiques, we are
wondering what the piece is like—whether it con-
veys a really good impression of the book. If it
does, then it should admirably suit the aristocrats
in authority at the old Moreton Bay convict estab-
lishment. Slaughter-house drama, love and mur-
der run riot, ought to be exactly their metier.
From the time that Maurice Frere is intoxicated
with the cow-like breath of the languorous Sara
Purfoy up to the very last torture-scene
in the volume, the play should hold like
glue. The telegram sent us opens up a 610-acre
area of the most fascinating Who
plays Mr. Gabbett, and does that gentleman chop
down and gobble up on the stage one after an-
other his five pals? Does he cook them au gratin,
or eat 'em raw? Does the colossal “State Scourger
aod Executioner” of whom Bobby Byrne and the
Brisbane people in general seem so proud, oblige
by enacting the part of Warder Troke,—and is
Carmichael, the man whom the Brisbane authori-
ties apparently flog every day in the week except
Sunday?-is he let out of gaol by virtue of a habeas
corpus under the hand and seal of Charley Lilley,
1.0. G. r., C.J,, to impersonate Rufus Dawes?—and,
if so, do they carry away Mr. Dawes’ cuticle in a
dustpan? We have long yearned for the advent
of the Cannibal Drama, and on the enterprising
firm of Mae Mahon and Leitch rests our hope of
happiness. Upon them depends our only present
chance of wallowing for three or four solid hours
in Man-Spinning and Anthropophagy.
• * *
In one thing, the advertising, the managers
of this interesting production Bhow a heap of
genius. Daily they send an amateur chain-gang
to march all over Brisbane, and the dress and
general appearance of the hireling convicts is a
magnificent draw.
** * *
George Darrell was doing good business
in New Zealand at latest advices. G.D. went in for
singing some of Rickards’ songs, who threatened
George with pains and penalties, but that bump-
tious individual defied the comic singer and
wanted to see his powers of attorney, rights, &o.
Eventually matters were amicably adjusted
Harry Rickards and the Rayner Bros. Co. have
not struck oil in NZ. Harry Rayner has been
very ill, and the Wellington critics scarified some
of Rickards’ performances, notably a sketch en-
titled, “ I'm a married man myself,” saying that it
was a “low tap-room performance.” Rickards,
indignant, made an ad misericordiam plaint to the
public. Liddy, his agent, witadrew the ads. from
the offending paper. Bhv biz. prevailed-hence
a peck of trouble.... John E. Sheridan, the “Widow
O'Brien,” has a host of novelties in store for his
patrons. It is his intention to remain in Sydney,
and with his experience and repertoire he should
be able to succeed in keeping the ball of amuse-
ment rolling for an indefinite time The Grenfell-
Leake Dramatic Co. did not make sufficient money
in Newcastle (N.3.W.) to warrant their retiring
from business for the rest of their natural lives.
Cause of dearth of patronage said to be the
fact that many of the citizens were visiting the
metropolis for the Easter holidays. The company
passed through Sydney, on tne Ist, en route to
Brisbane, where we wish them better luck On
dit that Miss Myra Kemble shortly proceeds to
London, there to appear at Drury Lane. Good
luck to you Madame.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS OF
First-class WATCHES
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIEB.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 47-
Up to £5O.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
•» i, i, „ „ 4 10/
»» >» •• », it 5 0/-
*• »« •» •• «i 5 10/-
»» •• it •• i. 6 0/-
i» ii ii it n 6 6/-
•i «i ii ii ~ 8 0/-
Send for the Silver Waltham Watch 2 10/-
•• »• ii ,i 3 0/-
'» •» »i ii I. 3 3.0/
*• •* •• ii ii 3 15/-
»* ii it ii ,n,, 4 0 /-
»» i« n n ,i 5 0/-
i* •• ii ii •• 6 6/-
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
A handsome Oriental Gold Brooch
will he presented to any one sending'
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 474 George-street, opposite
the Markets.
ORIENTAL 60LD COMPANY
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
(ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY


BRIEF MENTION .
The Jap. officers should doff their “ circu-
lar ” cloaks. It makes them look too much like
Chinamen.
There is one rising military genius in the
Victorian Army. His name ? Lieutenant Lazarus,
of Sandhurst. Fill them up once more.
Married at Sydney, Australia, John Smith
to Mary Ann Brown. Continental, American, and
Canton papers please copy—in large type.
More Glory!
MB. TOM SLATTERY, M.L.A.: “DON’T CRY, MY LITTLE BOY; WE’LL GIVE THIS TO THE DEAR OLD MOTHER COUNTRY IN HER HOUR OF NEED, AND THEN THERE’LL BE
MORE GLORY—(aside)—FOR TOM SLATTERY .”
(Vide Leading Article in this week’s Bulletin.)
We are glad to observe that the N.B.W.
artillerists, though they didn’t damage a smaller
target, were successful in hitting North Head.
Sweetness and Light. An Australian
Haster gift to Matthew ArnoJld. We send home
Lieutenant Honey and Corporal Cork to shoot in
the rifle contests.
Why shouldn’t we ’ave the noo Hee-
brides ?” asks Frawnois Habiglle, M.L.A. Tn con-
nection with which we may rer nark that Dymock
has just published a shilling dictionary.
The head-master of Waterloo (Sydney)
State Sohool publicly states that; he has been cured
of something or other by some nostrum or other.
This will be sad news for the schoolboys. Their
preceptor’s name is “ Clouting.”
Rev. Dr. Jefferis says life 'in lodgings is
" an artificial and unnatural one.” But if a man
can’t marry, and his mother refuses to take in
washing to support him, what is he to do ? Must
he camp out like an aboriginee ?
The Rev. King, of Albert Park, Mel-
bourne, is sad because brewery apparatus led the
way in the procession on Eight Hours Eay. We
refrain from ornamenting funerals with our pre-
sence now because the bier is always in the van.
A Wollongong correspondent asks how it
is that the local boys are allowed to use as footballs
skulls from the looal cemetery. We don't know.
W« can only say that we pity even the wearers of
copper-toed boots if they ever kick the skulls of
aldermen.
S. M. Herald cablegram “ London,
April 29. Australian pears have been sold at the
Army and Navy Co-operative Stores at three-
pence each.” Pooh! That’s nothing. Why, last
week we bought a pear in William-street, Sydney,
and they charged us fourpence.
“ An oyster seven feet wide and weighing
half a ton, on a reef at Cooktown,” says an ek>
change. Only one, though. That’s why it is
blazoned abroad. If there had been a dozen of
’em, now, the editor would have kept it dark with
a view to an oyster supper for his girl!
“ Soul-staggering gloom ” is the latest con-
tribution of the Sydney Evening Noose scribe to
the dear old mother-tongue in the hour of her
need. That’s what he says Lithgowwas steeped
in on the day of the miners’ funeral. Soul-
staggering gloom I Body-staggering rum!
A Parsec lady has attempted a translation
of Queen Victoria’s latest work, “ More Leaves.”
We are busy just now translating “ More Leaves ”
into the lingo of the dead-and-gone Tasmanian
niggers, whioh nobody on earth understands but
ourselves, who are descended from a Yandemonian
King.
It’s all very well to rave about the unem-
ployed. But we never realised how thoroughly
all the world was out of joint till we read in the
evening papers—“ Break Down of a Prison Van.”
If we can t be decently conveyed to gaol without
Black Maria shedding a wheel, this is a cold, cold
world indeed.
A short while ago, Mr. Gladstone, being in-
disposed, received several of his colleagues in his
bedroom. It is curious to notice how they hang
upon this one old man. Perhaps he will, before
long, receive them in his family vault. If they
stayed there till the Resurrection, nobody would
miss them much.
Mr. Onslow Knight, a Townsville photo-
grapher, has recovered £&5O and costs against the
Cairns Chronicle for stating that a Confucian
named Tim Tee had said Knight’s father was a
Mongolian named On-low. We don’t think a libel
of that kind worth £360. Nobody would believe it,
for most Chinamen are liars.
“Dr. Belcher,” says a local paper, “is
already improving the manners of the High
Sohool, Otago. We are glad to hear that he ha
made a rule that all the boys are to lift theirna
and take their hands out of their pockets w»
they meet him.” This is an improvemeat
“ Hi, doo, ole man—got a match on you ?
For some time past Astronomers r
and Tebbutt have been unable, even on oi
nights, to get uninterrupted view of the t v,e
bodies. Floating volcano-dust, windborne,.» .
theory. Our explanation is that the
Watchman and the Central Australian ar
it to the death. Their dust doesn t settle local y>
The military enoampment at Queensc*
(Vic.) was marred by one great calamity. *** 1


fish laid In to enable the Catholic troops to stick to
their religious convictions and yet sustain the
wearisome manoeuvres through Good Friday, went
had. They were Romans of pious Tipperary
The New Hebrides Agitators.
“A meeting, to protest against the annexation of the New Hebrides, was held at Lorest Fodge last evening. The attendance was meagre. Mr. Gabigle proposed the
first resolution as follows: WE THE PUBLIC of Lorest Fodge, in public meeting assembled, protest against the annexation of the New Hebrides by France,” &O., &C.—
Sydney Daily Papers.
larents, those gallant fellows, but they wolfed
le poultry and chanced Purgatory.
We observe that the Sydney policeman’s
foot is being turned to a purpose, after all. An
advertiser has got him to tar the sole of his boot,
and stamp the impression on the city flag-stones.
You see his tracks freely. Inside the outline (the
thing is 1834 inches long, so that there can be no
mistaking what class of men are doing it) is
written: “Jamoif to So and So’s Universal Cor-
reotive for chronic-dyspepsia.”
Victorian judges hare tome curious
notionBab(mt the fitness of things as compared
with judges in N.S.W. A little time ago Mr.
Justioe Higinbotham ordered a Juror to leave the
box because he was not sober! Why we have
known jurieß who [The rest of this sentence we
cannot afford to print. If we did we should run a
splendid chance of Knowing those juries sprain.—
Ei>. B.] Wtll at any rate we have known jackasses
who had more sober sense than [Two columns
of uncalled-for abuse editorially eliminated.]
The terrors of war! We read that “At
National Park, N.8.W., volunteer encampment,
the men had ‘ fried meat, bread, and coffee ’ for
breakfast.” Pried meat! What is the name of
the savage who cooks for the warriors? James-
Hennessy’s battle-axe has alaln its thousands, but.
the frymg-pan and the leathery hashhouse chop
will on the day of Judgment have more victims,
at their credit than can be claimed by bad brand*
and the jim-jams.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The N.S.W. Baseball Association held its
first matoh last Saturday, when the Sydney beat
the Union Club. There was a banquet afterwards,
wtaica was intended to be a big affair; but nearly
all the eloquent notabilities sent apologies. Mr.
Sam Cook, doss ot the S.M. Herald, proposed the
toast of “The Baseball Association,'’ and Consul
Griffin, who presided, artfully began his reply by
referring to Mr. Sam Cook aforesaid as “a distin-
guished journalstl” Barrii g Samuel’s historic
effort as a Darlinghurst interviewer, we have never
known him to perform miracles In the distin-
guished journalist line. However, Mr. Griffin’s
compliment had its effect, for in M mday’s Herald
do we not find the proceedings, including Mr. Sam
Cook s dismal oratioD, reported in full, and do we
not find it recorded, upon the authority of Mr.
Consul Griffin, that Mr. Sam Cook, of the 8 M.
Herald, is a distinguished journalist ? The
Illustrious Consul, who has apparently come all the
way from America only to sit at the feet of tbe
Jay nil and llloquent One, Informed the afflicted
feeders that “ tue game of baseball, although of
modern origin, is a marvellous Improvement on
the ordinary game of ball which the Spartan
youths took such extraordinary delight in. It is
also superior to the style of play which afforded
such amusement to the Athenians thatthey erected
a statue to Aristonicus for the great skill he dis-
played in the game. In America, we have not
gone quite so far as the cultured Athenians, but
there are many who believe that such veteran
Dlayers as John Kelly, G. A. Woods, and Zach
Phelps, the last of whom is a native of my own
town, deserve the highest honours appropriate to
the field of sports.” Aristonicus and—John Kelly I
Ye gods! Any man who talks to a company after
a good meal about Spartans, Athenians, Aristoni-
cus, and Zach Phelps, deserves—well, what new
punishment can be provided for such a man ?
Baseball Is only “ rounders,” after all, and ten
columns in the Herald won’t wipe out that fact.
* * *
Sydney bicyclists may sigh for another
metropolitan track, as the Association Ground
trustees have thus early commenced to grind
them down. Last year the Sydney Bicycle Club
gave the trustees a quarter of the takings, and in
the matter of complimentary tickets were limited
to 500 single and a certain number of “ party ”
tickets. This year the ground authorities ass a
quarter of the takings, will allow 500 singles, but
have stopped the “party” tickets altogether.
La6t year the trustees received £2OO for the use of
the grounu |for Saturday afternoon, and over
the four meetings held during three years tbe
Sydney Cmb have put £5OO into the hands of the
ground people. The senior bicyole club runs all
the risk over these meetings, the item of advertis-
ing alone totalling £250. Should the afternoon
turn out wet, the club would be mined fiaanolally,
and as they run all the risk they naturally object
to putting a clear £2OO into the hands of tne
money-grubbers, and tnen be restricted as to
complimentary tickets, more especially as they
lose 23. 31 to the ground’s 9d. over each “com-
plimentary” admission. The old days of compli-
mentary meetings, when bicyclists ran for thu tun
of the game, have given way to quasi-professional
and big-prize meetings held with the object of
drawing big gate-money, and believers in bona-
fide amateur sport may tnank the trustees of the
Association Cricket Ground for the signing of Its
death-warrant They certainly were never ap-
pointed with that object in view.
They do say that the Hatful was “properly
bossed ” by Luland during the intercolonial trip.
* * *
The Victorian papers gushed over the
“juvenility” of the so-called junior (N.8.W.)
team. They must, for a certainty, have some
giddy old boys amongst their lot.
* * *
The seoond matoh arranged for the N.S. W.
“ Junior ” team in Melbourne reil tnrouga owing
to the reiueai ol the Osborne representatives,
Toby and Brown, to take part therein, on the
ground that f uland had treated them badly by
feoaitig them i i last In each innings in the first
match They were not a l Oaringtons in the team,
according to report. One “ joker ” stuck his own
foik iuto the potatoes when the waiter handed
them round the table until requested ny Jeems to
hoist era out with the epoon; and a most un-
gentlemanly trick played on one of the team very
nearly resulted in his not playing in the match.
* * *
In the first match to be played in England,
Australians v. Lord Sheffield’s Eleven, the oolonlals
will meet a team pretty well as strong as All
England.
* • *
Up to the end of March Musket’s stook
had annexed £l4 758, the following being the lead-
ing half-dozen on the list:—Nordenteldt, £3340;
Matobiock, £1996 ; Fusilade, £1426 ; Necklace,
£1261; Waitin, £1193; Trenton, £lll9.
* * *
There is a diversity of opinion amongst
those “ who ought to know, you know,” over tne
defeat of the «.S.W. crew in the international
eigbt-oar race. One party puts it down to the
fittings, and the other to the scratchy stroke with
which Bros took his men away. Until tne men
are thoroughly used to the iong slide and swivels,
and a ta>. trial given, we cannot see how the new
fittings can be condemned. Tuat they did not get
a fair trial in the late race, in more ways than
one, there cannot be a doubt. The men nad not
sufficient time to become ’ at home.” aud had
Bros luteution been to damn the new fixtures, he
could not have gone about it in a better way than
to start away at a stroke bordering on the fifties,
the distressing nature of wnioh may be gatnerea
from the faot that George Seale, wltn his acknow-
ledged wouderful staying power, fell to pieces
early in tne race. A trial of the two styles will
prooably take place first time the M.R C. and
S R.C. meet in an eigbt-oar, for, no doubt, the
M.R.C will adhere to Brett’s belief in the long
slide and swivel. Of one thing we reel pretty
sure, that if the new fittings are to become a suc-
cess, 38 lifting strokes will be the maximum at
which pace will be got out of the boat. At the
first we objected to Brett coaching the crew; and
had another ooaoh been selected, and the veteran
stroked the splendid stuff he could have placed
behind him, the Welshmen would, in all proba-
bility, not have made quite such a “ holy show” of
themselves and the new fixings.
m * *
Of the £9OOO given away as prize money hy
the A.J.C. over their autumn meeting, the two
rour-flgure men are Messrs. James White and H.
Oxenham.
* * *
Friday last, the third day of the A J.C.
Autumn meeting, as was autioipated, proved the
“off” day of the meet, so far as attendance was
concerned. Mia Mia made a win ot the Two-year-
old Plate from Activity, General Gordon third.
Trident was most fancied for the All Aged Stakes,
hut the gallant little Cerise and Blue was not to be
denied, and won by a length and a half from
« entility, the favourite running into a place.
Fraud proved what a fraud he can be when he
likes by winning the Welter Handicap by a length
from Rapid, Remus third. Volcano appropriated
the First Foal Stakes from Blairgowrie, Tamarisk
third; Sandal defeated Mitchlock by a length for
the Cumberland Stakes, Nelson running third; and
The Jewel made a clever win ot tne City Hanalcap
hy a head from Preston, Gozo third.
* * *
Saturday’s racing brought to a conclusion
hy far the most success ml meeting yet held at
Randwick. Cairo appropriated the Rous Handi-
cap a length a id a half from Remus, Bon Accord
tnlrd; Nelson annexed the Plate Handicap from
Dagobert, Gozo third; and Hoodwink won the
Nursery HaudioaD, alter a great set-to with Ac-
tivity, Bonnie Queen third. St. Dunstan fell dur-
ing the running for tbe Steeplechase without
touching a rail, and Goodwood and scoboloff run-
ning a de.it heat for first place, the owners very
sensibly agreed to divide. The A.J.C. Plate fell a
victory to Matohlock, half a length In front of
Nelson, Monte Christo a bad third; and Crossfire
brought the meeting to a conclusion by winning
the Free Handicap from Goldflnder, Dagobert
third.
* * *.
The Hon. James White made Mr. Oxenham
an offer of 2000 guineas for the gallant pony
Cerise and Blue, but without success. However,
should Mr. Oxenham decide to part with the mare
later on he has promised Mr. White the refusal.
* * *
The principal attraction at Foley’s Hall
on Saturday night was the meeting of Mick
Dooley and Duffy, a powertul heavy-weight, in a
four-round Queensberry encounter. Duffy was
outfought in every particular, and pretty well
knocked to a standstill in the third round, but
with great pluck he stood before Dooley till the
finish of the fourth round, when Jack Tnompson
decided the match in Dooley's favour. Several
other sets-to were gone through, the best being
four rounds between the bantams, Waller and
Harrigan, who showed excellent science and hit-
ting power with both hands, Waller, if anything,
proving the better of the two. Murphy, the New
Zealand lightweight, boxed with rather a smart
iad from Adelaide, hut we did not fancy the
Maorilander was showing his best.
* * m
“ Hogsheads ” and “glasses ” were at it on
the Association Ground on Thursday in the shape
of a brewers' and hotel-keepers’ cricket match.
As the latter had inoluded in their eleven several
bonifaces whose apearance warrants the conclu-
sion that the perfume of swipes and fusil oil has
a tendency to create obesity, it may be said that
they were fairly represented. But the brewers’
team waajmostly composed of clerks, who were,
consequently, more active and agile than their
‘ globular ” opponents, and it is no great credit to
them to know that they won the match.
* m ■
Owing to the interest taken by one of the
prominent members of the Victorian Football As-
sociation inlthe visit of a N.S.W. football team to
Victoria about the middle of the present month,
exceptionally liberal terms have been made in the
matter of gate-money for the visitors.
It will require a large amount of explana-
tion from the Parramatta Alfred Club to rectify
their caddish cooduct towards the Albert Club in
the matter of arranging a match with this club
and men abandoning the engagement, and letting
the ground without intimating that they (Parra-
matta) had changed their minds. Tbe consequence
of this was that when the Alberts arrived on the
ground on Saturday they found that their trip
from Sydney had been made for nothing.
* * *
Shaw’s Eleven, whieh leaves England for
Australia in September, includes Shaw, Shrews-
bury, J. Liliywhite, Barnes, Briggs, Gunn, Bates,
Flowers, Lae, Preston, Lehman. W. G. Grace also
has been asked to join.
* '* *
C. Nelson, the Australian sculler, who de-
feated Charley Matterson on the Parramatta, was
Apropos of the great fatality on the raoe-courses of late, a correspondent, with an
allegorical mind, suggests the above.
very quiet on the subject of his little trip to Eng-
land. By cable we learn he saved the life of a
little boy who fell into the Thames, and he has
been matched to row Bubear on the 3rd June.
Bubear is the man in whom the English papers* a
short time back, said they had a seoond Banian.
What a come down, to row a colonial fourth-class
Beuiier!
* * *
From the brilliant brevities of the
Nooze:— *' Cerise and Biue yesterday; many sports
100 a rather hiue to-day.” Tnat’s so. And they
were probably the sorrowful squad who were
‘‘done brown” by following that false prophet,
Alfred’s tipster, and backing Brown and Rose.
• • ■
The awarding of ihe trophy for the best
fielding on the siae of t he N.S.W. Eleven in the re-
cent intercolonial match has given anything but
general satisfaction. It was almost unanimously
thought that Toby was entitled to the distinction.
* * *
In the out-of-the-way township of Dun-
gog is a batsman (Bignell), who could knock
splinters off most of our crack batsmen of Sydney
in a big hitting contest. During a matoh on Easter
Monday against the Conservative (Sydney) Club
this Dungog “ Bannor ” knocked up a score of
103 by as line an exhibition of full and clean hit-
ting as could be desired.
* m m
Here’s a wrinkle for the Never-Touch-Its.
The chairman of the Brisbane Blue Ribbon Gospel
squad suggests that all the temperance bodies
should combine and purohase the right of selling
refreshments at the booths during the races, and
then provide nothing stronger than raspberry
balm; and soda-water. Let us consider the effeots.
Firstly, a lot of people would stay away from the
races; secondly, nobody would drink raspberry-
balm; thirdly, the teetotallers would lose a thou-
sand or so on their deal; fourthly, if the saints ran
up the price of the booths, the wicked race-club
would profit exceedingly, and the publioan would
reimburse himself for his extra outlay by charging
a shilling for all drinks. We have looked all
round matter and see no way out of it for the
men of soda-and-milk.
* * *
At the fruit-soramble given by Boyle and
Soott, in honour of the visit to Melbourne of the
N.S.W. junior eleven, the sportive Scott orated
thus:—“lam glad tojnotlce that, at last, Royalty
will patronise cricket, as one of Her Majesty 8
grandsons will very likely take a part in the next
Oxford and Cambridge matoh. I think oricket will
go ahead when patronised by royalty.” Yerra!
yerral these are glad tidings, indeed. The princely
orioketer will have a big batting average, we
swear; for any bowler would rather die than send
a scion of royalty to the pavilion without double
figures opposite his number. No prince of the
House of Brunswick will ever be stumped while
there is a British tax-payer to bleed.
* * *
The Sandhurst bowlers beat the Balmain
bowlers on Saturday, and within 24 hours a new
comet appeared in the west, just under Orion
—which reminds us. “ Did you ever read R. H.
Horne’s ‘ Orion ? ’” we once.asked an editor for
whom we dished up copy. " Don’t think I have.
he said, meditatively. “ No, never read O’Ryan,
but by Jove Charles O’Malley is a thundering
good book,”
* * *
While in Melbourne the “hatful of
oricket ” was deputationised by about 30 ladies
with reference to the introduction of muscular
development amongst the feminine portion of the
Cabbage Garden. It is said that there is every
possibility of a ladies’ intercolonial cricket match
being played either ia Sydney or Melbourne next
year, the proceeds to be offered to the gay and
festive promotors of this novelty.
* * *
The first innings in the Intercolonial
Junior match was remarkable for the fact that 10
men scored 31 runs between them, without a
siogle “ duck ” being recorded. The whole day s
play—producing a total of 140 runs from both
sides—was about as dreary an exhibition as the
most ardent admirer of “ careful cricket ” could
wish for. N.B.W. made things more lively on the
Monday, but the chief entertainment was? pro-
vided by the holiday gentry assembled round the
rails, who roasted O’Hanlon so unmercifully for
his blunders in the field that the poor fellow ap-
peared to lose his presence of mind altogether.
Cottam had occasion to be specially grateful to
O'Hanion’s critics.
* * *
The Duke of Westminster’s unbeaten eolt
Ormond won the Two Thousand Guineas Stakes,
defeating Minting and Mephisto. Ormond is a son
of the Duke’s sensational Derby winner, Bend Or,
and Mephisto, rather singularly, is sired by Robert
the Devil, who ran Bend Or to a head in the Derby
and subsequently defeated him over longer dis-
tances. It remains to be seen whether history
will repeat itself in the Epsom event, and the
descendants of the celebrated rivals run first and
second. Minting, by the way, is the son of Lord
Lyon, the Derby winner of 1866.
* * *
The intercolonial boat-race provoked very
little wagering in Melbourne, and though the local
men were favourites for choice, public opinion
inclined rather to the chances of N.B. W. In a few
years time, when those contests have gained in
interest and the public find more opportunity for
criticising the practice of the rival crews, we may
expect the result of the intercolonial race to be
foreshadowed by the “market” with as much
certainty as is the Oxford v. Cambridge event.
Only twice within the last 10 years has the betting
at the start of the University race been at evens.
On the first occasion the crews rowed a dead-heat
and on the second (this year) Cambridge won hy
6ft. ODly. On y once or twice in 20 years have odds
been laid on the losing crew, and then the market
was influenced by the plunging commission of a
prejudiced partisan with more money than brains.
* • a
See what envy will do. A fox came tearing
down Bturt-street, Ballarat, one day last week.
The fat and pursy sharebrokers on the Corner im-
mediately tore after him. They thought that he
had come into town with the view of turning
broker. Yet, from what we know of them, they
need not have been afraid. If he had done so, he
would have left that town without hi« brush and
with very little skin to speak of. The iE3op of the
future will take as his type of cunning, not the
fox* but the Ballarat sharebroker.
• * *
In connection with Mr. D. Bcott’s little
groVelt a correspondent writes us:—“lt may be
ffimarked that royalty has not usually exercised a
very elevating inlluence upon any sport it has
been graciously pleased to patronise The connec-
tion of George IY. and his brother William with
the English turf did much to bring races into dis-
repute. Odckflgkting and the prize-ring were
comparatively d.eoent sports until Kings smiled
upon them. If a prince of the blood (God bless
itl) is really going to the wickets in a University
match, we suppose a sort of court etiquette will
be introduced into the hitherto respectable game
of cricket. His Royal Highness will be favoured
With slow full pitches, and if he gets bowled by
accident, the umpire will fall on his face and cry,
4 No bail.’ None of the royal hits will be run out
and they will all count as sixers.”
YE TERRIBLE TALE OF YE SHOPGIRL, AND
YE CHURCH SOPRANO.
Belinda Brown was her name, and she was a
bride of 12 months and a day. We wish to be par-
ticular with this chunk of imformatlon, because,
as Garden Honey would say, Tempos fugit, and
moment by moment tne days grow shorter with
us all. The trutn of this assertion may not burst
on our readers in full bloom at once, but it will
gradually grow upon them in a style that cannot
be torgotten. To return to our mutton, however,
Belinda Brown had a voice that could bore a hole
In a seven-inch plank, and snorted louder than the
snore of a Ministerial stonewaller when an Oppo-
sition member is doing a spell of “ stonewalling.”
Selina Smith was the shop-girl’s name, and she
sang in the same choir as the blastiferous Brown,
but she had an organ so sweet that she could coax
down sparrows off a telegraph line to listen to .it.
Consequently theie was a North Pole coolness be-
tween the pair. By some strange, and wholly un-
accountable means, it came to Belinda's 6x4 ears
that the summer shopping season had “ arrove.”
it was the festive season when nothing but the
bob-tail top knot of the calico clerkess is seen
above the festive shop-keeper’s board, and tower-
ing pile of mousseline de laines, and pates-ae-foie-
gras, and the like, cause the millinery counters to
groan beneath thoir jackass loads, when Belinda
trooped into the emporium in which Selina was
engaged, and after giving her silvery-throated
rival a ton of trouble looking for something ‘'just
a shade lighter,” was hauled up short by Selina’s
delicate hint: “ I would try this remnant if I were
you, Mrs. Brown—it hides the dirt so admirably.”
Ba»e wretch thou diest in one act to hurdy-gurdy
musio,” exclaimed Belinda, and then stabbing
Belinda fatally dead with a hairpin she strangled
herself with her own garter, and being rich, died
“respeoted by all who knew her.” Country
papers please copy, and likewise add that all the
hide-covering a prudent mamma requires to do
for her boys to-day can be done at the boss
Juvenile Outfitters, Summerfleld and Co., 235 and
237 Pltt-street, Sydaey.
Wolfb’s Schnapps is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments. You cannot err by using it.
USE
DR. SCOTT'S
Electric Appliances.
“THE GERM OF LIFE IS ELECTRICITY.”
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets & Belts
AN ENGINEER’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the s.s. Northum-
bria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past 25
years, sends us the following statement:—‘‘About
seven or eight years ago I sprained my baok in lift-
ing an anchor, and from that time until I came to
you for a Belt, I never was well. Excruciating
pains in the back and muscles used to attack me
with alarming persistency until really I could never
depend on freedom for a single day. Having tried
so many things ineffectually, you cannot wonder
that I purchased your Dr. Scott’s Electric Belt
with considerable misgiving, but I am happy to tell
you that since commencing to wear it I have been
entirely relieved and have not suffered from any
of my old symptoms sinoe. lam now completely
cured, ahd there are Scores of men in the coastal
trade to whom I have recommended it, who, from
personal experience, ban speak as highly of it as
myself.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET
For
HEALTH, COMFORT, AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
Mrs. Williams, of Millers-street, St. Leonards,
writes of these admirable curative appliances:
—“I cmnot speak too highly of your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Corsets as a natural and scientific means
of relieving pain. For a very long period I suffered
from acuta backache—one of the most distressing
complaints of our sex, but I am happy to inform
you that sinoe wearing yoilr corset (Dr. Scott’s) I
have never once felt a relapse or a return of my old
symptoms. I consider them, indeed, invaluable*
and frankly and earnestly recommend them.
DR. SCOIT’S ELECTRIC BELTS.
ALMOST MAGICAL.
Constable William Stapleton, of the Redfern
Pc lice Station, has experlec ced some of the benefits
of curative electricity ih the form of Dr. Soott’s
ffhooni-ygenuine) Electric Belt. I suffered con-
siderably,’.says Mr. Stapleton, from muscular pains
in the back, caused thrbugh exposure and taking
cold in the execution Of my duty during a heavy
rainstorm. You cannot imagine the amount of
pain and agony I suffered from this comparatively
trifling matter, and it beofcme so bad that *i was
obliged to consult oUr surgeon and obtain siok
leave. Neither the one or the other availed; how-
ever, and as a last resort I tried your Dr. Soott’s
Electric Belt. The effeotwaß almost magical. The
pain seemed to leave me instantly, and I have never
felt the slightest inconvenience from it. I have
recommended your Belt to scores of my friends,
and amongst others to Mr. F. Cavener, the head
porter of the Railway Station, who used it with
equally successful results Upon a child of > his. I
am well known in the force, and if my published
recommendation is of any service to you you are
welcome to it.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
SPLENDID ARTICLES.
Mrs. Kirk, Bathurst; writes:—“l am highly re-
commending your Electric Corsets. They are
really splendid articles.”
BETTER THAN REPRESENTED.
Brooklyn, June 28.
Dr. Scott,—The Corsets I ordered six months ago
have worn splendidly, and have given satisfaction
every way. They are the best Corset I ever wore,
aside from their electric qualities, whioh are truly
marvellous. I suffered greatly from rheumatism'
in my back and limbs; but your Electric Corsets
have entirely cured me. They are better than re-
presented.
Mrs. J. B. Babson.
RECOMMENDED.
Byron Creek, Richmond River.
Gentlemen,—Your Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset
and Belt came safely to hand. My wife finds very
great comfort through wearing your corset, and
I have not suffered from those paius in my back
that'used to worry me so before. I recommend
your goods with earnest confidence.
Yours faithfully,
T. Leahby.
MORE RELIEF.
THEY COME AND STILL THEY COMB.
St. Joseph’s Convent.
Kooringa, 8. Australia.
Gentlemen, Your Electric Corsets, which
pleased me very much, came duly to hand.
Truly yours.
Sister St. Joseph.
CURED OF DYSPEPSIA.
Niles, Mich., January 5,1885.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets have cured me of
acute dyspepsia, from whioh I had suffered for
eight years. His Electric Hair Brush cures my
headache every time.
Mrs. Wm. H. Peak.
WELL WORTH THE MONEY.
Mrs. Cougblan, Cootamundra, writes, February
17:— I received the Electric Corsets safely, and
am highly pleased with them. They are well
worth the money. I have also much pleaseure in
stating that I like your Electric Hair Brush very
much.”
These goods are sent out in a handsome box. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you omnnot get them in your town, we; will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. od. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon reoeipt of stamp to cover full
postage.
The prices are as follows :
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
54 MaRGARET-STREET, SYDNEY


The Magisyraya
Arp
Tt|L H(o\
I
C\« *rvw»s g
iEmo**'
P£.r
Anson
' AS
posKfl -
Acf 3
irt in
r I 111
7'S'Wfm
/ SsiS
Arison
A as .
posKef
Pf IP W*
ACT' i
;°^i|uvjr HI ill r
H/\»/ W A
'coiffovrto T-sSssj]/ §|]
“The Magistrate." at Sydney Theatre Royal.


PEPPER AHD SALT.
A Melbourne parson complains that “ the
smile of young girlish beauty is bestowed upon
men whose hearts are as corrupt as human hearts
well can be, and tender white fingers lingeringly
clasp the hands that I, for one, would not willingly
touoh ” Humph I how innocently this parson
shows his hand. One of those corrupt ruffians has
evidently cut him out. ’Tis a bad job, but he must
make the best of it. We’ll endeavour to soothe
his wounded feelings with a song.—
An Adelaide telegram advises us that
"Mrs. Macdonald has just died at Truro,affed 107.”
What sad experiences were hers! Pass the jews-
harp
We know what is the matter—
Onoe you wooed a simple maid,
But some masher, skilled to flatter,
Cast his sinful sheep’s eyes at her,
And his dandy talk and chatter
In her bosom havoc made;
So, although you seo ner danger,
We are very much afraid
You have little show to change her
Young affections and estrange her
From that nicely-tailored stranger,
In his raiment rare arrayed.
You must find it very “riling,”
It must horrify you much
When you see the masher smiling
At the damsel so beguiling,
Or his guilty hand defiling
Her small fingers with its clutch,
And she too that paw .caressing
Which you would never touch;
But, though shocking and distressing,
’Tis a wrong there’s no redressing—
She prefers his style of dressing,
And his toothpick and his crutch.
Sir, there’s little sense in railing
At a thing you cannot mend;
All your weeping and your wailing
Will be worse than unavailing:
Mashers are the women’s failing—
Beauty’s Don Giovanni’s friend;
’Tis a strange infatuation,
But on this you can depend:
Though you threaten with damnation
Every masher in creation,
Quite unchanged the situation
Will remain until the end.
THEN AND NOW.
Mra. Macdonald’s in Heaven,
She’s taken her leave of our stage,
Her years were one hundred and seven
(A very respectable age).
We guess she died happy, because
8he’d little occasion to mourn,
For the world’s not the place that it was
When Mrs. Macdonald was born.
In seventeen seventy-nine
(That was just the year of her birth)
Men drank their six bottles of wine,
And gave themselves over to mirth,
Arm-in-arm the good roysterers rolled
Home with the milk in the morn,
And were lavish and free with their gold
When Mrs. Macdonald was born.
Cant hadn’t come into vogue
As a thing on whioh hypocrites trade;
A man who did wrong was a rogue,
No matter how often he prayed;
A judge in those jovial days
Would have laughed a blue ribbon to scorn—
Oh I we’ve altered a lot of our ways
Since Mrs. Macdonald was born.
It makes us unhappy to think—
Now snivel in pulpits abounds—
That parsons would formerly wink
At swearing, and followed the hounds;
The “cloth ” to good cheer was inclined,
Nor sought to look lean and forlorn,
And it had the respect of mankind
When Mrs. Macdcnald was born.
Independence has gone out of date
And grovel is rife in the land*
They only are reckoned as great
Whom royalty takes by the Band,‘
Poverty is looked on as crime—
’Tis money alone can adorn
A mortal and make him sublime
Since Mrs. Macdonald was born.
So, sinoe seventeen seventy-nine—
The year of our heroine’s birth—
She noted the steady deoline
Of manners and men upon earth;
Indeed, it had been very well
If the Archangel Gabriel’s horn
Had sounded Society’s knell
When Mrs. Macdonald was born.
Th® Townsville Caledonian Association
proposes to bring out a number of the distressed
Highland crofters. Jt is a good-hearted idea, and
tne Agent-General for Queensland has been in-
structed by his Government to employ a leoturer
to “ visit those parts of Scotland from which the
immigrants are likely to come.” This, of course,
means the island of okye mostly. An epitaph:—
Ask not why I
By and bye
Unto all an end must come.
Here they lie
(Born in Skye),
Victims to the Townsville rum.
Counterfeits are lively but they have not yet
arrived at any successful imitation of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Notioel Reliable Old Australian Wines,
seleoted vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now Australia’s most
popular health beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s and
accept no other.
Mb. Db Connor Bbowni (late Deputv
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sotftb
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
‘‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
62 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Unpleasant dreams and general unrest
do not trouble persons who are wise enough to
use Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Here is Bummer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst- Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer. Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonio, Potass
and Llthla Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
ASrated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt •
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Political
Points
Newcastle Herald on Parkes’ present in-
fluence: “Heean only be compared now to the
old giants in Bunyan’s immortal allegory, who
roared and gnashed their teeth at the passers-by,
but oouldflo no more.”
Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator prophesies
that “ one of the results of the return to power of
Mr. Gladstone will be, in all probability, a great
European war. It is by Russia that the lighted
match will be applied.”
Ireland’s population is 5,160,000, whereof
the Roman Catholics number 4,010,000. A fraction
of the remaining 1,500,000 Protestants are being
egged on by raving Orangemen and howling Tories
to take up arms to oppose the Home Rulers.
The point secured by Gladstone seems to
be that if his Irish proposals are rejected he carries
away with him sufficient support to compel any
incoming party to take up the work, advance a
more acceptable measure, or be turned out.
Burns, the London Socialist, thinks that
exportation of the peers is the best remedy for
English remedy. This shows how selfish Socialists
are. They don’t care what country the aristo-
cracy are turned loo°e upon so long as England is
freed of them.
Cardinal Moran says the Catholic Church
does not recognise any authority on the part of
the Civil state to dissolve the marriage bonds.
Very good. The Civil state dissolves them and
does not recognise any civil rights of the church
in dealing with people so separated.
As a proof of the depression existing in
England we see that ia ’B5 40,000 men joined the
Regular Army, an increase ol over 4300 on 'B4. It
is the largest enlistment since '5B. The total num-
ber of applicants was 69,000 ; 514 out of every
thousand were physically disqualified 1
Dr. O’Doherty, of Queensland, who now
sits in the Commons, said at the Bt. Patrick’s ban-
quet at Westminster that “Irishmen would not be
true to their country and their name if they did
not make Ireland rather a weakness than a
strength to the empire until justice was done.”
In the debate re Disestablishing the An-
glican Church in Wales, it transpired that the
total population of Wales (1881) was 1,343,237. Of
these, only 217,400, “ a miserable minority,” belong
to the Church, the remainder being what they call
in England "Nonconformists”—people who con-
form to what they please instead of to what the
“ miserable minority ” please.
The Duchess of Marlborough (bless her
heart D—not the Diichess who divorced the Duke
for kicking her while she was in an interesting
condition, but a new, and so far unkicaed, Duchess
of Marlborough—lent her presence to the opening
of the Richmond “Dames’ ” Habitation of the Pri-
mrose League. In her speech (hats off, please) the
Duchess lent herself to say:-“If Mr. Gladstone
succeeded in handing the government of Ireland
over to agitators and rebels, it would not only be
finally ruining Ireland, but striougly endangering
the welfare of the Empire.” (Cheers,) Dear, dear,
what must Gladstone tnink of himself that ?
Our long-headed friend, the Russian, who
breakfasts off a jump of black bread, and washes
it down with a shiver, is by means of v irriga-
tion, making oases along the desert route to the
Indian frontier. One of these artificial oases is
already completed and will support 250,000 persons.
We want a few Russian regiments to make oases
in the N.B.W. back-blocks. Viewed in that light,
the much-dreaded Cossack invasion would by no
means be an unmixed evil. If we could only get
an army-corps of these bear-skinned ruffians at
work in this much-governed country, they’d fore-
stall the water commission by at least two cen-
turies. \
N.S.W., which “helped the mother
country in her hour of nedd ” by sending troops at
ss. a day to aid the red-coats in slaughtering nig-
gers, has given the Hawkesbury bridge contract
to a Yankee firm at ±327,000. “ Australians,” says
the sriti6H Australasian “ would have very
much preferred to see a British name re-
corded on the Hawkesbury bridge.” Bosh I Aus-
tralians want to get as much as they can for their
money. Politically speaking, they would pasture
the Soudan donkey and the Soudan goat on the
graves of their grandmothers if there happened to
be money, in the transaction. It is this deliberate
letting to foreigners of a big bridge contract that
assays all the blather of the Jingo ll patriots.”
“ Pikkax,” in the Sydney Evening News
oa Thursday, put a 7in. knife under Bir Henry
Parkes’fifth rib thus Sir denry (in his speech
on Wednesday’s motion of adjournment) began
with an agreeable anecdote illustrative of the evil
effects of spasmodic or accidental legislation
which told how, in ooasequenoe of a silly person
from California having presented a pistol at a
member of the Australian Club, a law had been
passed in N.S.W. making it illegal for anyone to
oarry arms. This aHeodote he related with a fine
forgetfulness of the Treason Felony Bill, of what
he and a now eminent (in his own eyes) journalist
did when the lunatic O’Farrell was in gaol, and of
that remarkable apparition, the Kiama ghost.”
At a reoent sitting of the Commons it was
resolved, on . the motion of Sir W. Haroourt,
that “ Wednesday next, being Ash Wednesday,
the House should meet at 2 instead of 12.” Omy
one member, Sir Peter Pease, objected to this, on
the ground that there was urgent business to be
done, but the House solemnly carried the motion
by a large majority of 74. It shows what a grip
the Establishment still has on the upper ten in
England when the country’s business can be de-
layed over such an affair. Ask the next 12 Aus-
tralians you meet what Ash Wednesday is all
about, and nine out of 10 of them will only thina
of hash as pronounced by so many English provin-
cials. As well ask them what Tripe Tuesday is.
In England the land-tax contributes little
more th n £1,000,000 out of the taxation total of
±85,000,000. It is less than one-tenth of the Inc >me-
tax, and Is not equal to one-twentieth of Customs
and Excise dutieß. Further, it is estimated bv Mr. F.
Harrison to be .only one-two hundred and sixtieth
yearly value of agricultural produce iu Eng-
land. In every other country in Europe land Is
the basis of taxation, but the English landholders
in the reign of Charles 11. managed to shift their
just burden on to the shoulders of whole popula-
tion of the country, and land which up to that time
was the chief contributor to the National Trea-
sury, has been practically exempted from taxa-
tion ever since. Australia in this respect has eare-
rully followed suit.
“It is notorious,” says Vanity Fair,
“ that at least two-thirds of the British so-called
ships of war are almost worse than useless; and
this is true of every class, from the largest to the
sandiest. I have in the course of the last few
years seen # great deal of tae Mediterranean
Squadron, which is generally supposed to be made
up of our crack ships. On one occasion I went on
a short cruise in one of the smaller yessels, which
was occasionally used as a despatch-boat. On
account ol the defective condition of her boilers,
her maximum speed had been officially out down
to seven knots an hour ; aud then, to save coal, we
being a thrifty people, her commander had in*
structions not to exoeed live knots, except under
special circumstances. This was at a time when
our relations with the neighbouring Keputlio
were by no means of the most friendly kind.”
This hypothetical case, which may soon
become real, was recently communicated to Mr.
John Bright by a respected Liberal and Freetrader
in the North of England, for his opinion in the
following words:—“ln the event of the imports
or American cotton goods becoming so great and
of such low price as to cripple the English manu-
faoturer of such goods, causing a general closing
of English cotton factories and throwing out of
employment some 3,000,000 of workpeople, will it
be better that these people should lounge about
the streets idle, dependent upon the rates for the
support of themselves and their families, or that a
small duty should be put upon imported cotton
goods, and these 3,000.000 workpeople remain oc-
cupied at their looms ?” This swamping of the
English market has already happened in many
branohes of trade, and the fact is, more and more,
forcing on the proteotionlst agitation in England.
In an article on hereditary legislation,
Reynolds goes so far as to assert that the wisest
fathers have the silliest sons. The late Lord Cairns
was an able man; his son Gumboil is the laughing-
stock of England. The peerage bristles with nin-
compoops and noodles, “ the tenth transmittors of
a foolish face,” whose fathers were superb
thinkers, doughty warriors, students of science,
and statesmen of renown. But a generation
elapses, and the once honoured named is hawked
round at the heels of a concert-hall chorus, or
goes to add another to the silly conquests of a
common trull. Even the Titanic Cromwell failed
to beget sons with anything like his iron stamina
and grip; the Duke of Wellington’s successor was
an idiotic sot; and if the Lords were polled
through it would be very generally found that the
man whose intellect won the title, had left behind
him nothing but addle-pated incapacity to in-
herit it.
Election address from the Brisbane
Courier:— “ To the Independent Electors of
Fortitude Valley,—At the request of my fellow
men and women, I place myself before you not for
any pride or honour, but simply to do my best to
bring toe colony of Queensland to perfection as a
nation, so as that Britons shall not be blotted out
for ever. lam a white man with red hair. I can-
not see or understand why I should try to make
laws for coloured men, when one of them said the
other night that he knew as much as me and more.
I have nothing against him, but let him build a
colony for himself and glory in his colour, be good
to his people, and also to his wife. I advocate good
wages, say ; 7s. per day for labouring men, 10s. for
tradesmen, and more for men who is the guides of
trade. I will sit with Samuel Walker Griffith, and
do my best to assist him in every way, but if he
tries to reduce the good things that God intended
for man and women, I shall oppose him. lam an
employer of labour. I challenge any man or
woman to prove that for the last twelve years in
Queensland that I did not pay the wages, I referred
to above. Gentlemen, if you vote for me, I will
be always good to you, I will call a meeting later
on, and I will explain my views in person. John
Cusack, Ann-street, Valley. 33rd April.”
The three Premiers looked big with fate
as they sat on board H.M.S. Nelson during the
gala days of last week. They were the flowers of
the legislative systems of three colonies. It was
natural that they should issue an ordinance for-
bidding approach to them during their delibera-
tions. Even Premiers sometimes advance foolish
notions, and in an informal tfte-a-tete buttress
them with still more foolish reasons. It was
prudent, therefore, to keep the man with a note-
book off. It may appear that Admifal Tryon was
the inspiring cause of the deliberations taking
plaoe at sea. But if there had been no Admiral,
this might have happened. The Queensland
Premier has acquired a settled taste for exer-
cising his qualities of statesmanship on board
a boat Wnen signs of a political tangle show
themselves up at Brisbane the Premier rounds up
his Ministers, drives them down to the ferry, and
if the Government schooner, Kate, is not handy,
pushes them into something with two sides and a
keel, and proceeds to sea. Experience goes to
show that the method has something to recom-
imendit. The Ministers—every man snarling at
another when in the heart of Brisbane— return
leaning on one another’s arms, and smiling be-
nignly. There was a time when people said Mr.
Griffith liked to take his Ministers across the
harbour to keep them from another bar Jfor
Queensland is a land of strong temptations), but
the refreshment bill of the steamer Kate gradually
destroyed this illusion.
The game is up at last— broken is the golden
bowl—vanished the glamour of the municipality!
Let the envious hell-hounds of Bungendore exult!
Let the miscreants of Michelago cachinnate! Let
the bruised earthworms of Gundaroo draw near
and gloat! Delenda est Queanbeyan! and Marius
O’Sullivan straddles the smoking ruins. Let the
haughty borough that fliunted its bye-laws and
its corporation wells in the faces of humiliated
bush townships, weep. The mask has been torn
from its Mokanna features—men look and shudder.
Its populace—the populace that dared to dictate,
through the chosen tools of its arrogance, what
licence water oarts should pay, is composed of
yokels. “ The bright sun rises to his course, and
lights a race of yokels—he sets, and his last beam
fails on a yokel!” Yokels administer law in its
courts, yokels appear before them for judgment,
yokels head ’em, and “ring in the tail-grey ” round
corners, yokels pervade the whole place; female
yokels, in the brazen disguise of ladies, go forth
shopping, young yokels play “tip-oat" in the
chief squares; the community is swathed in a fog-
like pail of yokeiarity. There is no defence
offered. The eye that discerned the Kiama
Ghost has pieroed through the veil; the hand that
penned the “ Murmurs ” has given the overwhelm-
ing town this appalling knock-back. Sir Henry
Parkes has spoken, and not all the tears of Quean-
beyan will wash out that sentence. “ Yokels of
Queanbeyan” will, like “savages of Bungaree,”
be incorporated in the language, and live for ever.
Delenda est Queanbeycm!
Lord Denbigh still wants to knock money-
out of the Queensland Government for the ex-
pense his company went to over what was Called
the Transcontinental Railway soheuie, To High-
lander MTlwraith this scheme was as inexpugn-
able as the positive injunctions in the Ten Com-
mandments. The present writer has a pathetic
interest in Lord Denbigh’s post mortem inquiries,
for from a country paper which our brain was
then wont to illumine MTlwraith admitted he had
drawn the first hint to build Queensland railways
with p.ivate capital on a basis of land-grants.
Mac invited over the Duke of Manchester, and a
long queerly-constructed engineer called Peilding
—Peilding fought with Ohanzy in the army of
the Loire—and the whole thing looked smooth
Griffith was in Opposition then, but although he
snarled and growled like a dog with a sore foot the
play went on. Mac's manner of referring to
Griffith was at that present essentially con-
temptuous. He would turn about to Pend-
ing or Manchester and ejaculate “ That boy I
that boy!” Whereat the amused oompany
laughed. It is those who win, however, who have
the last laugh. Mr. Griffith does not hold his sides
while oacohinating. He is too dry by nature for
that. But in his own way he now laughs with
superlative zest. Lord Denbigh, as the telegram
has it, petitions the Government for compensation
for expense incurred in survey and other work,
and knowing the fate of former applications in
these terms, proposes that the Queensland Govern-
ment should give a pieoe of land to the company
if they won’t give cash. “That boy” instantly
mails a letter to Lord Denbigh, stating “ that the
G varnment dot 8 not see any need for further dis-
ousaion of the subject, and begs him to con-
sider the correspondence as closed.” When the
letter reaches home, and General Peilding, the
Duke of Manchester, Lord Denbigh, and thereat
of the syndicate come to the end ot it, the expres-
sion they are likely to use will probably be the one
Dickeas weaves around a oertain fat personage in
“ Pickwick “ Damn that boy I”
Recovery of damages from the N.B.W.
Government, even when a jury has pronounced
that damages are due, is usually a tedious and
Costly process. A cabdriver named Pegan has
just bad a little experience of the way in which
a tl w ?, y 0 autocrats claim the right to first
mov^h? p * e lnto pulp a ° d then wriggle out
to pay tor this amusement. The
HnD- b Jt^^ U K StI ? n T as run into hy a tram travel-
srfwaa hi. rate °i sp ® ed - His cab was damaged,
sfirinr? his body, and naturally he sought compen-
Sf- ,tri„ f c 2J irBe the only way to bring the
nnnrMn e /*u Neroil to book was to “put ’em into
resifit n a ?h * hey w 9 r ® put in accordingly. As a
ht awa F ded t egan £3OO damages. Did
tairtra3««n^ ot qui f e i x or the department, follow-
nsw) appealed to the Supreme Court for a
these two extraordinary grounds:—
a U „l e . WE WM brought to a standstill in
knnots^ 48 ’ that the man himself, though
and caught by the motor, was not
“° re , severely injured.” Certainly the motor
was brought to a standstill in a few yards, but
And W as tn* h r -a it i h ? d kn oeked Fegan’s cab over.
asseaaiai^+h 18 ln3Urlea they had already been
thl T^r by oJ h l«^ en^PPolQted for that purpose,
t Jury, at £3OO. Fegan gained the appeal, but
thertnh^JPS?h ab i y h nd that he would have been
rmf /ioher if he had put up with his original loss.
Deo tn the ease when men hap-
S5 Bhed by the culpable negligence of
mfavnnrnfth officials. The case may be all
hisvnpHi r «? f i,i h K olaima nt, yet when he recovers
moiJ 0 ?P««fci he haa fa 9 e an appeal often on the
generaU^rtnof l '?!? ll3B, If the t* o ™ loses, as it
fi??afsrt™ doe8 ’ the very appeal deters other Vic-
Deb? thorn p ii*S eed i tt'ith their cases, and com-
tiv!m, ei ther to accept nominal recompense
los* m wwl?P a^£.ment, ° r ® lse suffer the entire
are 9 'ti^ h «a,?S- th f 8e un:i !J Bt and vexatious appeals
nfflnoH result of cupidity of the Crown Law
or tyranny of the railway department, we
that if ?hf Pared « t 0 B , ay; but 14 18 plala enough
nffioiifa l o Practice is not soon altered by the
„ 8, ,,£ 0n i? means must be devised either by
the qualification of right or appeal, or by placing
o?slnn «h S Qn t « e apds or arbitrators, whose de-
shall be final, to prevent the Crown from
and 88 ?: n engine of oppression
and injustice to those who have a just claim to
compensation from the State.
The Russians have been at their old
the bearingslof things at Melbourne
The Muscovite man-of-war
v estnik landed a boat’sl crew at Fort Franklyn
« a^ ed i we presume, after Mortimer Franklyn).
The fort, apologetically says the age, “is
usually left in cuarge of one of the Victorian Per-
manent Artillery, but he had left the fort to-day
? over , bere in the doctor’s steam launch
to get his monthly cheque. Thus the fort was left
unguarded and the movements of the Vestnik un-
watched.' The garrison had gone to get his
people I Th e Victorians are a great and martial
Stand still, ye stars in your courses, and
you, ye suns, rolling in the great deeps of space in
everlasting brightness, shedding life and light on
unknown beings, who, perhaps, have, long ere
this, invented a wash or ointment that secures the
f™,, 1,0 ? deeay, and establishes optional im-
mortality, for here are two notices which hold us
entranced, and the earth would bid you note
dJ?n r iw;Ti^ rS b J V Smith ’ of Syd Hey. of a son. Both
doing well. But, now, cease your songs, ye Cele-
tial ones, till all is over. First notice" Bucking-
ham Palace. March 17.—Her Royal Highness the
Duchess of Connaught and Strathearne was safely
delivered of a daughter this morning, at 9 o’clock.
Highness and the infant princess are
Tot 1 } ,T 7e li’T W * J s * Playfair, M.D., F. H.
Baking. M.D. But rejoice not yet:—'“s p.m.—Her
q£o?L? iglineB *! l he IToohess of Connaught and
Strathearne and the infant princess are progress-
ion favourably.-W. S. Playfair, M.D, F. h.
Baking, M.D. And even now, sing your halle-
lujahs low, and hold your cambric ready, for on
the same date:—“ His Royal Highness found the
Princess of Wales suffering from a cold which
confines her to the palaoe.” Tishhuhl
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHAItLEHOXT et CIE.,
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are now
open in the Royal Arcade.
Co. have engaged an efficient staff
of Artists for all branches in art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have been trained in the
leading European establishments.
Mr. Thomas C. Cleave (who has had the dis-
Pr^m^ d M h ? n ? ur Photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H.B the
?hi n « e an ? £ rin ?, esB Wales, many members of
the Koyai Family, also the Prince Imperial and
studio work 68 Wlli personall y superintend the
° U L portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
a . nd ,^ e invite inspection of our
work c exhibited in the Vestibule, leading to ouf
CHARLEMONT et OIE.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
886 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-straet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRTLMPH oj SEWING MACHINE
The “ BEALE "
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werthaim Sewing Machine,
BE,
The M Hapsbnrg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


m
LIMITED,
356 George-streetp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICBB
BAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co-
-356 Ceorse-street, Sydney.
THE NEW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Jim, Lam Bns,, S Co,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
cash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &c.,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., St CO.
POMEROY-CHAMBBRS,
CASTLERE AGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
EFFECTUALLY DESTRO]
ALLNOXIOUS
FLEAS. FLIES BEETLES MOSGLUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE .SAM E-TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTHER S
m
©
M
ANIMALS
sdf
c
gsd
fgs
FELTON* CRIMWADEWC®
MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
0
CO
o:
CLO
<—>
or*
joo
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparlble
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Subsk &TR»wr. Bydm*t.
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOOtg
DNE'f A tO^'v'-w*
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
n VUIiQUEI-
&, - tOBACCO
DIXSOH tk SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
>ossesB the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more Amerloan Leaf
&T YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixaon’s Cut Tobaccos.
|OR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, ail sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all Sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
TTATR SEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASBES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
JMeiixUn
P
zn.
m
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stool
of MUSIC in the city.
Muslo.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ae.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
New catalogues can he had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Bools, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
ah orders executed in best style and promptly.
Bools for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
HI upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Musio and Bools bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stool,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines. , „ ,
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
tales off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, tales oft 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of worling.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
S VI ff 61*61*0*
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised 1 .
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
everv disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxfohd-st., London.
Purchasers should 100 l to the Label on the
j Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
-1 street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
C O S T JP R I C.E.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
[ the value, forwarded free of all charges.
BEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. M‘IMNES & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre*
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALLS
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—" TONIC NERVINE.”
% OAi is, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY (JURE tor Ner-
JnL voufl and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonic and soothingr effects it at once
removes all oravinar for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising: ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and rives vigour ta the whole system.
Prioe, Is. 6d., or 265. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Marfcbt-st., Sydney. N J}.—All imi-
tations Illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. 1 Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Xdlui-oxi. C3-loss
Nervous debility cured— l > man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Pra h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, oentai i
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
IMIIBMKO.
£7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.:.
\
l\i/
Ob
s>^\'
c^i
z 3
s®;
-I— &F
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OB COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
[EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Liar EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


SOCIAL
Henri Kowalski’s first concert on Monday
last may be regarded as the most noteworthy
musical event Sydney has had to place on its
annals *or many a long day. Some people will
argue that the Salvation Army band and the
Bervioe of Song ” at Bethesda chapel were not
easily surpassed, and that give ’em a good rousing
howl at Bankey’s hymns and they’re satisfied. But
not everyone is upto that lofty standard.
For our own part, a programme of 12 moroeaux,
of which six are either olayed or conducted by
the composer, and that composer one of our own
eitizeas, strikes us as something notable. We
knew Kowalski tolerably well before this
concert, but to us, in common doubtless with
most of the audience, the quality and soope
of the compositions presented on Monday were
somewhat of a revelation. The interest of the
concert, in fact, centred on Kowalski’s own work.
Mr. Hallewell is a fine artist, but he has repeatedly
been heard to infinitely greater advantage than at
this concert. Miss Francis Saville gave a rendering
of “Koberto.tu che adoro,” which is more aptly
described as neat than as satisfactory, and in
selecting Braga’s Serenata for her second song,
she tested the endurance of an audience largely
oomposed of connoisseurs to whom that liquid
melody must have been utterly and wearisomely
stale. Mrs, Atkinson was too ambitious in tackling
an aria by Mozart. For a voice which is really a
small edition, and not of the highest cultivated,
although of pleasant quality, simpler themes
would be more appropriate. In ballad musio or
limpid oantabile compositions, Mrs. Atkinson
would always be an attraction. The nearer
her choice aporoaohes to bizarre style the less
effect she is likely to make upon her audiences.
The most important and interesting feature of
the ooncert was Kowalski's concerto for p ano
forte and orchestra, an elaborate work i 1 four
movements. Upon this we will not presume to
offer a detailed opinion after a single hearing. It
would require a musioal training and organisation
of a very high order indeed to carry away an
analytical comprehension and appreciation of all
the characteristics of a composition of this kind
all at once. Broadly speaking, we can only inti-
mate that eaoh movement struck us as full of 1
thought, ideality, and distinctiveness The orches-
tration appeared—allowing for the material
available on this occasion—felicitous in the
extreme. The “ Bch<*rzo ” lingers most in our ear,
owing chiefly to the humorously grotesque use
made of the bassoon in its retorts to the piano.
Extensive and very effective use was made of this
Invaluable instrument in the concert, which we
are sorry to observe is not in the programme for
the next concert on Hriday. It is certainly the
most important work of a classical cast ever pre-
sented to a Sydney audienoe by a resident com-
poser. Of very high interest, as regards executive
effect, was also the concertante duet by Tbulberg
and De Beriot, played by Kowalski and Alpress
on pianoforte and violin. Mr. Alpress im-
proves every day, and is fast climbing to a
high niche among violinists. He sustained
his share in the duet admirably. We can’t
enter into further detail beyond noticing
the two valses chantants, in which ohorus,
orobestra, and the great pianiste combined.
Of these, one “ Une Unit Australienne ” isKowal
ski's own, and is remarkable for one of the love-
liest oonoeivable introductions—a very mid-
summer’s night’s dream in tone-painting, suc-
ceeded, however, to our thinking, in tne valse
proper by a rather common place honey-pot
sickly-sentimental theme. This is the sort of
theme whioh pervades all the popular waltzes of
the day, however; and to the composer and exe-
cutant of the paraphrase on “Faust,” an occa-
sional unbending to deal in the lolly-pop business
may be forgiven. On Friday the programme in-
cludes Kowalski’s arrangement of “ Martha.” We
have heard the composer play this composition. It
is a concert in itself, an orchestra in one act.
v * *
The pretty little town of Tumufc cele-
brated the fifteenth anniversary of the Loyal
Tumut Lodge of Oddfellows, by a day of sports,
and a grand ball in the evening, on Easter Monday.
* * *
A very enjoyable party was given at Fair-
view, Little Blilabong, the residence of Mr. B.
Hovenden, one evening last week, to celebrate the
ooming of age of the son and heir.
* * *
About 200 accepted Dr. and Mrs. Harman
Tarrant’s invitation to their dance in the new
Masonic Hall, on the 27th ult The catering, floor,
and music were all that could be desired, and the
room was tastefully decorated. Particularly chio
costumes were not in an absolute majority, but it is
more than probable that in view of the semi-public
School of Industry ball, the bulk of the guests
had saved their forces for that occasion. Mrs.
Tarrant wore a pale-blue silk, richly set off with
cream laoe; Mrs. Andrews wore a perfectly fitting
pale-blue satin; and Mrs. Flatau, a stylish
black velvet ornate, with heliotrope plumes. An
atrocious gown was a flerce-looking orushed
strawberry, which was sufficiently short to show
a pairiof elastic-side iwbite kid boots, and a few
inches of black hose; Mrs. Purves wore a oream
satin and laoe dress, touched with cardinal plush.
It was a delightful night for dancing purposes,
and the oompany made the most of it till the early
morning hours.
* * *
Lady Carington looked very elegant last
Wednesday, at the races, attired in a rich black
Sown trimmed with beaded lace, and nicely re-
eved by a pure child tulle bonnet. Late iu the
afternoon she presented the cup with one of her
sweetest smiles to the fortunate winner, Mr. Oxen-
ham.
* * *
Marulan (N.8.W.) has gone in for a mode-
rate social boom by starting a Lawn Tennis Club,
which promises to be largely instrumental in
ministering to the trinity of blessings,—society,
friendship, and—admiration. The ground pro-
vided by the generosity of Mr. A. W. Holt, will
be beautiful, when it has been sufficiently oeau-
tifled, but even now when the members are
practising It requires uo other deoorations to make
it an attractive spot.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Kowalski’s second eonoert, Masonic Hall,
Friday May 7.
Sydney Liedertafel smoke concert, Protes-
tant Hall May 11.
Mansfield Crio .et Club concert, Protes-
tant Hall May 13
Junior Pharmacists’ ball, West's r00m5.... May 13.
Mrs. 0. J. Roberts’. “At Home ”at Chata-
wortb May 17.
Eastern Suburbs A A Club annual sports
meeting, Association Cricket Ground.. May 24.
IT IS A. BOLD STATEMENT
To say that any msdtcine i, “ never known to fail -1
but Is stated emphatically by the proprietors of
Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters. This medi-
cine is a specific for diseases of the kidneys, liver
and bladder, aud has a reputation of thirty years
standing.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
Many persons are to be seen gazing at the
really cnoice glues and china kept in those shops
opposite the Joint atock Bank, and it is no un-
common remark to hear “ beautituld things
are here,” and “I wonder what that is for.”
Everytaing required for mansions or cottages in
oroQkery is there to be round, and the proprietors,
Bray Bros., will weloome inspection visits.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Buy original un-
opened bottles of the only genuine Bohnlpps.
[?]
Bydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— The summer has died ex-
tremely hard this year, aDd even now I am not
quite so sure that we have bad the final flicker, for
try as I will I can’t quite satisfy myself that it is
cool enough to wear my lovely new plush mantle
this afternoon. I am much afraid these same
plush mantles will be done to death, for they are
very :showy for the money, and becoming to
everybody, old and young. I don’t think the real
seal-skins will keep in favour much longer, for we
have come to the conclusion at last that although
costly and rich-looking they make the figure look
decidedly olumsy; even Signora Majeroni’s fault-
less form loses half its grace under one of these
mantles. Uut the plush visttes are quite charming,
though some of the colours are a little too start-
ling -a bright yellow I saw yesterday nearly suffi-
cing to turn my affections from them altogether,
worn as it Was in the blazing sun-light. Such ex-
treme popularity as these lovely things obtain can
only result in making their reign but a brief ono,
I fear.
Just after l posted my letter to you, last Wed-
nesday, Ned came home from the encampment in
hot haste, and persuaded me to lay aside my book-
nnd accompany him to the races.it being Cup day.
Well, it was pretty late in the day to put in an
appearance at Randwiok, and my eyes grew so
daz»d with the brief contemplation of the gay aDd
giddy tbrong that I can recall but little to tell you
concerning'it We saw men looking glum over
their losses, and others unwholesomely excited
A pastor of a Sydney Churoh, on dismissing his congregation, requested them to
sign a protest against the Divoroe Extension Bill, whioh protest they would find in the
Vestibule as they passed out.
over their gains, whilst iadies (?), who had taken
more champagne than was good for them, were
talking almost as noisily as the men. It positively
made me shiver and wish myself at home again
when I first saw them, but I soon forgot all these
disagreeables in noting the really lovely gowns
which were to be seen on the lawn. I don’t much
wonder at people comparing this with the Mel-
bourne Cup day, for it was indeed a brilliant
gathering. Some outre costumes there certainly
were, but in the main they were as tasteful as
they were rich. As we drove home Ned gave me
a fragmentary account of Tuesday's doings at
Port Hacking. The Governor and Lady Carington
went up and witnessed the sham-fight, and they,
with the members of the Ministry and their wives,
took luncheon together. He tells me some of the
ladles took their babies with them, and as these
little things have no more relish for speeches than
most of their elders, but haven’t the manners
to hide their objections, they lifted up their little
voices in the most determined manner each time
the Governor essayed to speak. Ned says he half
expected to see Mr. Harnett get up and turn them
out as be does members of the House occa-
sionally, but as the Governor is extremely good-
natured he bore the interruptions with the greatest
patienoe. I hear Lady Carington looked charming
on horseback, and the men are absolutely raving
about the beauty of her riding-boots Her riding-
habits, you know, are made so shert that when she
mounts and alights these muoh admired boots are
in full view. I think, by all accounts, the soldiers
must have had a very gay time out oamplng. what
with their amateur minstrel entertainments and
so forth, bat they lqoked terribly used up, poor
fellows, as they trooped through the city on Wed-
nesday afternoon.
The Japaneries are still attracting large crowds
at the Exhibition building. It is one of the
pleasantest novelties we have had for a very long
time, and I really hope these quaint people will
stay a long time with us. Just to show you how
very courteous the Japanese are, I must tell you
that whenever the officers of the Japanese man-
of-war were invited to a luncheon or dinner here
in Sydney, they almost invariably ate roast beef
just out of oompliment to us English. That's
oarrying courtesy ratner to an extreme, don’t you
think so?
Not a great maoy people patronised the first
baseball match on Saturday, perhaps be that
was more due to the many counter attractions
than lack of interest In the sport. We were quite
agreeably surprised in the game which, to my
mind at least, is a great deat more interesting
than cricket. It seems to me to be more exoiting,
and keeps everybody more constantly on the
move. The players wore very picturesque cos-
tumes—the Sydney being blue oaps and hose and
white jackets; whilst the Union chose maroon (at
least they call it maroon, but in reality it was
bright crimsoD) caps and hose, and white jackets.
The banquet—held in West s rooms the same
evening—was, I hear, a great success, although
Mr. Dailey was unable to attend in consequence
of illness. He must indoed have been very ill
to be obliged to deny himself the pleasure of
delivering the nice speech which I feel sure he had
prepared, and your Iriehd Monsieur Deoourt was
also absent, as he had gone up to the mountains
the day before in search of health. Nevertheless,
those who were present said many nloe things to
eaeh other, and parted in the highest of spirits
about midnight. I think when we come to know
more aboutj baseball it will be Just as popular as
cricket. ; f
If the following advertisements which I have
just out out of the Lady, an English paper, give
fair indication of the wages earned by domestics
in England, there is little wonder that good ser-
vants refuse to emigrate to the colonies:—"Gan
any lady recommend a thoroughly experienced,
trustworthy nurse for three children: five and a-
half, three, and nine months old ? Under-nurse
kept; age. 28 to 38;. wages £25 to £3O and all
found.” " Will any lady, recommend a very good
cook? Baking and dairy; must be a good man-
ager; age about 30; kitchenmald kept; wages £3O
to £35.” You will see by these examples that,
although the wages-may not be so high as are
given here, still the difference is not so great as to
induce a woman who is used to the oomforts of an
English kitchen or nursery with under-servants
to wait upon her to try her chance in a strange
world.
I am sorry to tell you, dear, that the use of
enamel, in society, is becoming more common
every day. Once upon a time it was only the
ancient and ugly dames who used it on their faces,
but now, yeung girls enamel not snly their faces,
but also their nedks and arms. A sort of enamel
powder is used whioh is rubbed on to the skin and
polished until the flesh glows like polished wax.
The illusion is all very fine if a girl has a good
round form, but on the scraggy variety, all angles
and no curves, the effect is horrid.
As two young ladies were sitting eating ices at
Baumann’s, in Brisbane, one day last week, they
saw several prisoners with their legs chained to-
gether marching down Queen-street, looking
pictures of misery. Ihe ladies were full of pity
for the poor fellows, and were staring at them
with tears in their eyes, when some one exclaimed,
“ Don’t they look real?” You know, of course,
they are the advertisement of “ His Natural Life.”
But even men are taken in sometimes by this
parading advertisement, aad have often been seen
to slip cakes of tobacco into the fellows’ hands.
I often wonder how people would get along with-
out advertising. I expect the world would stop
“ moving on ” altogether. I onoe heard an
American say that the reason Job was so poor was
simply because he didn’t advertise, and a news-
paper man who was preseat at the time said,
“ Why, cert’nly.”
I had nearly forgotten to tell you what a plea-
sant evening we spent at Kowalski’s concert last
Monday night. Lady Carington and the Hon.
Judith Harbord were each presented with a most
exquisite bouquet as soon ns they entered the hall
Lady Carington wore black and Miss Harbord
white tambour muslin and nun’s veiling: Mrs.
Atkinson looked pretty in a beautiful gown of
orimson plusb, with crystal-beaded front over
crimson satin; Miss Bavifle wore white satin, with
a side panier filled with flowers—one of the latest
ideas. The audience was a very oritloal one, and
tbe concert was one of the best I have listened to
fpr a long time.
,1 am so glad to see the members of the Metro-
politan Liedertafel have had the good sense to
include ladies in their invitations for their moon-
light serenade, whioh is to eventuate, I think,
about the 19th of this month. What possible enjoy-
ment they oould expect to get, boxed up in a
steamer without any of us with them, I am at a
loss to conoeive. So it is just as well that they
have thought better of their former intention to
exolude us, and now I am certain they will have
quite a nice time. Indeed, I hope they will.
It has just oocurred to me: I have said never a
word about tbe Sohool of Industry ball of last
night! Can't be helped; my gossiping vein has
fled for the nonce, so now adieu.— Ev6r yours.
MAB.
JJRADLEY, NEWTON, & L-MIB*
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
gsd
Austrian chairs,
_ ,'■ in
Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
> and
LAMB.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS, for Choice China, &c,
;VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense,
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell andi
Spring streets. V.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
U'Uonnell-street.
u
RAWING-EOOM OCCASIONAL =
A GREAT VARIETY Of NEW STI
oes, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
fgs
c
ANYAS FOLDING*
COTS,
for damping out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/6.
SRVBN POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED-
ROOM BUITHS.—The Economic bedroom
Suite, comprising wardrobe, ohest drawers, wash-
stand, dressing table and srlass, and tVo ehaira.
The lot for £7 15s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. ,
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, aad LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
B
B
ED3TEADS.—AII kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices.
EDDING—AII descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
,
I
EON SAFES.
Tariouf size*.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
U: ' *
and LAMB.
impose Celeste. .. , .
Case. Free at rail or wharves for flash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete la various woo dr,
and rery handsome designs, with T-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Oonhell streets, Sydney.
TfIULL SUITES for DINING - ROOM ~ SIDE.
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVBRMANTiL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CART-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Coanea-street,
iININO TABLES, with patent extending
jy
screw, from 5 feet loner and up te 80 feet.
dfg
ICB CHESTS,
all sizes, from 275.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and
LAMB.
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
sdfg
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 451.
BRADLET, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
au*ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed.
•UJ rooms. New designs covered to order In any
material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch tot
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN. ..
ROCKING EASY CHAIRB, elegant and restful,
a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
sdf
CANVAS FOLDING
GHAISS.
Substantial and light, suit-
able for shipboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTONI
and LAMB.
D
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS.-
and Chippendale designs.
-Early English,
S'VVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion
U able designs In Blaek and Gold, with Sil*
Shelves; also in Oah and Walnut Wood, a* all
pTioes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Fur-
niture Warehousemen, SpriDg and O’Connell sts.
gsdf
PIATBNT SANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
*l4 STIC WOVEN WIRE
MATTRASSHB,
LAWN and PARK SEATS 6 foot Iona:. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 16s. each. Bradley, New*
ton, and Lamb.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BUNDS. 6 x 8, _
BxB, 9 x 8,10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices Bradley,
Newton and Liamb, 0 Connell and Spring streets.
gsd
AMEhICAN PATENT
SHUT-UP CLOTHES
DETERS.
Each dryer gives 136 feet
of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMI
w
ALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING TABLES,
with two flaps* strongly made, only £3 109.


CORRESPONDENCE
[Correepondente who jive neither name nor nom-de-
pl«m« cannot expect to have their com-
manioationt noticed A »
C.R.” (Burrowa): Did we not know that
Mr. T. M. Slattery, M.L.A., is a most fervent
loyalist, we should say that he was trying
to hurry on the declaration of the Australian
Republic “J. Sterner”: Please call on editor.
“J.A.M.”: Charles Gavan Duffy was neither
transported nor exiled. We’ll get you the other
information from Withers’ “ History of Ballarat.”
... .“Tomahawk”: You should go up Duhbo way
Now is the time when bald-headed elderly gentlemen climb up on to chimnev-pots
and sweep the Heavens with second-hand telescopes in search of the comet.
to help dear off the thistles “Emma” (Gore
Hill): You have sent us a letter evidently intended
for another address..... “Mac” (Moulamein): You
oan’t expect us to print accusations which should
be submitted to the Insoector-General of Police...
“Random”: Humorous, but of no use to us
“Inquisitive”: The N.B.W. railways are certainly
not now clearing their working-expenses and in-
terest on outlay. What the loss is we cannot say.
The department assert that the loss is very slight;
other financiers estimate the net profit on working
expenses at less than per cent, on the cost of.
construction. The other question is too large for
discussion under this head....” Aspiring One”:
Where shall you “go to learn to write poetry?”
Go to the fierce football field, or the soft sedfey
swamp where serpents abound... “A voice from
Viotoria”: Your letter is only one among dozens
written to thank us for advocating the extension
of divorce. In most cases, though, correspond-
ents give neither name nor nom-de-plume. —
“Morality”: What matter if, as you say, in some
States of America divorces are to marriages as 1
to 8 ? If they were as 2 to [3 this would prove
nothing. It is the greatest good to the greatest
number that should be considered. It would be a
wise thing to dissolve 19 marriages out of 2), if
general benefit was the re.ult of such a stsp....
“ J. 8.”: Don’t go for the extra £5O a year. Wil-
eannia is a place where the postal authorities sit
naked in tubs of water to sort the letters during
the summer season “H. Clancy”: We must
deollne your social items. The first reads well
enough just this far:-“ She was neatly dressed in
two bootlaces that were holdiag up about half a
square foot of satin above the waist.” The rest of
the paragraphs are awful “ J.F.”: Ypur verses,
“ A Night with Sciatioa,” can hardly be consi-
dered a success. You ungrammatically say :
“ Oh 1 what a wretched sensation to feel,
When the whole of your body is glum.
You cannot stand up, sit, lay down, or kneel,
From the tip of your thighs to the point of your
heel r a ..
Your legs are cold, rigid, and numb.”
From this statement we diagnose that you aren’t
suffering from soiatioa at all. There’s plenty of
rigidity in that complaint, but neither coldness
nor numbness. Ask the doctor whether you
haven’t paralysis. If he says yps, please write in
four cantos an ode to hemiplegia, acoompanled, if
you like, by a sonnet to locomotive ataxy “ R.
Watson”: You needn’t abuse Judas. He had a
conscience “J. 8.”: Boshl The majority of the
well-connected drones in our blroumlooution
offices, whose sole work consists in heroulean
efforts to keep awake, receive twice the salaries of
our life-boat crews—“E.D.” (Townsville): It may
be founded on fact, but your metre is not founded
on any thing.,,, ‘' Kiama ”: Try the local papers
with your libels...." Shocked One": We cannot
tell who is responsible for the atrocious blunder
which has so long adorned a Sydney D.T advt.
. .." A.S.”: The Sydney Omnibus Co. isn’t at all
likely to adopt the suggestion that, for the pur-
pose of preventing the risk of accident and the
great delay which must from time to time arise
through ’bue-drivers selling tickets and holding
the reins at the same time, all ’bus-tickets shall be
sold at city depots and not in the vehicles. The
company couldn’t gcl their tickets sold without
giving a commission to the sellers, and that they
won’t do so long as they can force their drivers to
drive and sell tiokets t 00....“ T.R.T.”: Before
writing epitaph verses you’d read Max Adeler and
forgotten the fact. Some of the rest acceptable
....“Rustic” (Camperdown): We dealt with the
matter the other day in an article which you seem
to have paraphrased...." R. R.”: (1) Much depends
on the cause of the falling away. (2) Any chemist
would get it for you “ Bandbox “Forewent ’’
as the past tense of “ forego ” is practically obso-
lete ..J. Buxbridge”: Next week.. .“Thespis”
(Maryborough, Q ): We are ready to make our
affidavit that the children's letters were not writ
tern in this office, per were the s a etches drawn
here....“C.H.C.” (Yass): We mu t decline to
admit that the personage referred to was not
literally an “ affrighted sleeper,” ia , a sleeper
affrighted. “Statesmen” of the stamp referred
to cannot be encouraged without admitting the
proposition that a politician s first qualifications
are ignorance, bigotry, and colossal impudence.
The directors of the Commercial Bank of
S.A. are to be proeeeded against for neglect in re
the late by the Reverend Mr.
Orooks.
Mr. John Farrell, of Queanbeyan, whose
poems published in The Bulletin have been
freely scissored into the columns of judiciously-
edited papers all over the world, has at length
determined to collect the best of his productions
and publish them, together with some that have
never yet been printed, in book form, at popular
prices. The work of revision is now proceeding,
and the selected pieces will very shortly be in the
publisher's hands. From the popularity already
gained by Mr. Farrell’s work there is every reason
for believing that Australians will trample over
one another in their rush for the book. As tne
Yasa Tribune remarks, with that pleasing eleg-
ance of expression so characteristic of the country
Press:—“The volume will be a poetic oasis in a
desert of execrable verse created by the efforts of
the 81aden-CMm-Allen school, and which caccatlies
scribendi— peculiar to these bar 's—is fast making
limitless. Mr Farrell’s new book should be a pro-
nounced success, as several competent authorities
oonsider its author a formidable rival of ‘ Austral s
noetic trio.’” We are not at all sure that Mr.
Farrell will not eome out a little bit ahead of some
of the trio. Now verrons.
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness
should use Wolfe's Schnapps and they would
sleep well.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe,s Schnapps as it is the only genuine
Schnapps.
Beauty is loved by all, and in life, art,
literature, and science has its devoters. The
female form divine has been copied, written about
and dissected with more or less truthfulness, and
every imaginable thing has been made the subject
to beautify dinner, tea, and toilet sets and articles
of adornment in glass and china visit when you
can spare the time 402 and 404 G eorge-atreet. and
gee if Bray Bros , crockery is not incomparable. ..
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood a test
of actual trial for half a century were it not an
excellent spirit.
Over four thousand physicians have testi-
fied to the purity and excellence of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
ANTHONY" HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket.
A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
Ease the wheels of Domestic Life with the
smoothing: oil of Economy. Capitalize your ex-
penditure by investing: in one of
OUR SPECIAL MANGLES,
24 inches wide, 6 inch roller, £2 15a.—a veritable
rara avis, a positive blessing: without whioh no
household is complete.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, May 4, 1866.
miNDBBS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
JL PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govsrnhbot Gazkttb, a file of whioh
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notioe are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
irataM of Worka ana Buppllaa
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Construction of 130-ton Iron
Hopper Barge—Dredge Ser-
vice
Additions to Musketry Shed,
Victoria Barracks
Construction of House for
Porter in Charge at Wimble-
don, Great Southern Railway
Tueiday,
May 11,: j
at 11 o’clock. !
Repairs, &0., Courthouse, Coota-
mundra
Repairs, &e., Courthouse, Pater-
son
Tuesday,
May 18,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of a 50-ton Iron
Hopper Barge—Dredge Service
Additions Police Buildings,
Goulburn.
Additions Lighthouse. Port Ste-
phens.
Construction of a Bridge over
Bogrce Creek on road, Narra-
bri, via Moree to Mungindi
Erection of Btattonmaster’s
House, Havens worth, Great
Northern Railway.
Iraction of Lockup at Dalton
Tuesday.
May 25,
at 11 o’clock.
Bupply and Delivery in New
castle of Pipes, for Water
Supply Reticulation, Hunter
River District.
iv-|
er
er
Tuesday,
June 23,
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNB.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Icnpo-' er, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, GtGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ OOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes Lord Carrington,” “Our Boys,”
“All Nations.” ‘‘Prince Imperial,” “Our Girls,”
“ Boston Bride,” and our *‘ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos.— “ Boston Navy,” “Prince Imperial,”
“ Soudan Navy.”
Bole A vent for
PARNELL‘B HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Eaoh plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
UMBRELLAS
OTUDT BOONOMY
C 5 and
Havey our Umbrella Frames
re-ooyered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Btreet,
Brickfield Mill, between
Llyerpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to matok cos-
tumes. venmlM neatly m>
J§* DecoXATior^
4 &-= “
&&\dinzy'
mu
T t
-■
■ •
itwutf*nrrtn<
luJmwhwmmwmn
ssS!
‘*Dcc*n*tTe ? . of *-D i 7• ■?£ "Z
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)


THIS WICKED WORLD .
In Sydney, butter (now 3s. per lb.) is
being extensively adulterated with fat containing:
an admixture of coooa-nut oil We gather from
the Nepean Times that a local writer of para-
graphs there bad roast goose for dinner Easter
Monday. Everything else in the district going on
as usual—Dr. March, of Maryborough (Q.), took
poison. Is he trying to steal a march on Death t
or is Death trying to steal on March ? According
to the Armidale Chronicle the champion liars of
the world are “ our friends of Inverell.” An
editor is known by his friends Two nig_
gers were killed and eaten the other day at the
Cape Bedford (N.Q.) Missionary Station. The
Cooktown Courier says this is a warning te the
Moravian missionaries to keep plenty of meal
and rations on hand. The aboriginal stomach
would find no insuperable difficulty in convert-
ing dead missionary into living black fellow
Thus ingenuously the Cootamundra Herald:—
“We do not neoessarily think that it is unbecom-
ing of a pressman to accept a free invitation to a
dinner.”—Since the first license to dig for gold
was issued in Ballarat, 34 years ago, 1623 tons of
gold, valued at £220,000,000, have been raised from
that goldfield... The difference between a gentle-
man and a valet lies solely in this, that whereas
they both smoke the same cigars, only one of the
two pays for them—The Irish and Australian
World (Narrabri, N.B.W.—proposed seat of the
Irish Government) calls the Melbourne Argus an
“unreliable rag.” The Argus people, however,
pay no heed but go on publishing.... Orange
Advocate! pleads for large prospecting and dia-
mond-drill rotes for N.S.W. Victorian goldfield
members are asking for £lOO,OOO and are pretty
safe to get half—David Buchanan is going
te England to “ castigate ” Bishop Moorehouse ..
Typhoid epidemic at Newcastle, N.B.W. Thirty
burials in Sandgate cemetery in a single week, the
great majority typhoid victims On the tomb-
stone of a child, named Sutch, in an Adelaide
cemetery, the stonecutter has inscribed: “Of Sutch
is the kingdom of Heaven.” Copy of a general
order issued at the N.S.W. volunteer encamp-
ment:—“ Sunset, 615 p.m. By order of the
colonel commanding.”—One of the oldest Bur-
rowa residents, Mr. James Poplin, of Springfield,
died at his residence on Sunday week, aged 94
years ... Owing to the inoustrial depression, the
South Australian Advertiser is inserting ad-
vertisements of “Situations wanted” gratis
According to the dailies 10 tons of smelted silver
have been produced in 16 days at Captain’s Fiat,
N.S.W. faking th© ton at only 2000 o. of 12oz.
each, the alleged yield would mean £4B 000 In
1885, £8770 was spent in Bydney in cemetery-fees.
It’s nearly as expensive to die as to live.. .Says
the Peak Downs Telegraph:—” If prayer would
bring rain to the Peak Downs, we probably would
have had it long ago, considering the number of
truly devout people there are among us. But
alasl the drought continues.” The Wollongong
people are going in for Protection. A writer in
the local Argus wants to poll-tax ail hawkers
coming into that town, as they contribute nothing
to the support of local institutions.... Bishop
Barry says he never intended to speak against
newspaper-reading, but against the practice of so
many reading notning else. He complains it’s
demoralizing to “supply all information and
opinion in a form which requires little effort to
grasp it.” He said this in a country town, and we
infer he could not have referred to the country
Press; for its opinion and information require a
double Donald Dinnie Grceco-Koman hitch to
grasp them—What a happy Eastertide they are
having in Alligator land I Libel actions are
pending against the Brisbane Courier, Mackay
Standard, the Cooktown Courier, ihe Towns
ville Herald, Northern Standard, and Figaro.
... A new gold country has been discovered in
Patagonia. Here is a noble opportunity for
Alfred’s Paris correspondent to go home and edit
a paper in his native tongue —G. Baker, of Gum-
balie, convicted a second time of sly grog-selling,
has been sentenced at Bourke to a fine of £lOO or
three months, and in addition six months’ hard
labour It is said that Douglas Siaden has taken
up the study of Chinese. This is good news if it
makes him write Chinese poetry.
* * *
The Emperor of Germany “ has given his
consent to the proposed ereotion of a monument
to the poet Lessing.” Enough to make Gottholm
Ephraim Lessing, the critic of the Laicoon,
author of Nathan der Weise, and first of modern
essayists, turn over in the grave. Lessing will be
remembered when this royal-forked radish is
no more remembered than King Bumbo of Wan-
tabadgery. ..Marshal Bazaine is seriously ill at
Madrid The Parnellite vote turned the scale
that cast out the Church of Scotland Bill Asa
Eart of the marriage ceremony in Servia the bride
as to hold a piece of sugar between her lips as a
sign that she will speak little and sweetly during i
married life. It would be more sensible to wear a
gag It is said there is oidy one man in France
who has a family of 13 legitimate children. It is
proposed to erect a statue to him—The Empress
of Russia is a bit nervous just row. Some
kind anonymous friend, the other day, sent
her a box containing a woman’s head. ...
A Cinoinatti negro, Hines, accused of murder, was
taken in the dark to the side of the murdered
man’s coffin and the lights suddenly turned up.
To the remark of “That is a horrible sight,
Hines,” by the police officer, he replied, “ ’Deed it
is, sah .. A first-class captain in the French ser-
vice gets £8 a week... The town clerk of Belfast
gets £2075 a year. The town clerk of Dublin only
£BOO A Scotch toper sold his shoes and drank
the proceeds. As he left the pub. he muttered:—
“ step forrit, bareflt Gordon, if it’s no’ on ye, it’s
i n ye I ” Duke of Norfolk, whose son is an
idiot, draws £213,365 from the men who do him the
honour to cultivate and live on the ground which
the Almighty specially designed for the Howard
family to all generations “The Princess of
Wales is improving,” says the Sydney Echo.
Nothing is said about the Prince, and we are
bound to conclude that he is just as bad as ever
It jis calculated that the Disestablishment of the
Church of England would set free, funds equal to
£183,500,000. of which, after the payment of all
claims by the clergy for compeneatien and similar
demands there would remain a net gain of
£100. 000,000.... Advt. from a London paper:—“Mr.
and Mrs. Moses having left eff clothes of every des-
cription, they invite thorough inspection by the
nobility and gentry.” The rush was terrific 1.... A
common saying is that a person’s “ manners are
as good as those of a duchess,” but an observer of
duchesses says that as a rule those ladies have the
worst manners of any women in the peerage. No-
body is born a duchess, so they must all acquire
their rank by marriage, and their heads are often
completely turned by the elevation. A parvenu
duchess is usually ill-mannered in the conscious-
ness of grandeur The famous island of St.
Helena is now in the hands of a Jewish firm of
trad era—Solomon, Moss, Gideon and Co., whe
have monopolised everything... The late General
Sir Trevor Chute, of N.Z, fame, was, says Vanity
Fair, as good a soldier as ever wore a sword
The indirect cause ef Belt the sculptor’s convio-
tion, says a London paper, “ was the aooident of
Lady Abdy, wife of the man defrauded, being of a
jealous disposition.” The aooident I Wed have
thought it a certainty.... Vanity Fair says that
“ besides the Knights and Dames, there are now
nearly 150,000 Associates of the ‘Primrose league;’
these belong to the poorer olasses, and pay no
tribute. They are chiefly agricult jral labourers.”
“These pay no tribute I” Why, they sweat out
their immortal souls to support a loafing, lazy,
bogus aristocracy... .The Queen, when she
opened Parliament recently, is described as ap-
pearing like “a very short, very stout wo-
man, with large, round face, full colour, and very
obstinate, not to say determined expression.”. ...A
man presented himself the other day to the Syd-
ney hospital authorities for treatment, stating
that he believed he was poisoned. The hospital
people now state that ho Is only suffering from
delirium tremens. Where lies the difference? If
three parte of the grog sold In Sydney Isn’t poison
we 11 drink it An American journal advises
women to turn themselves into newspaper men.
This step must be urged in the interest of the
libel lawyers —Positive, ill; comparative, pill;
superlative, bill...." Wanted, second-hand bow-
lers, suitable for stoning stables ” Quite so, plenty
of our local bowlers are only fit to stone stables.
.... The performers at a concert lately attended
by the Queen had to appear in evening dress at
3 p.m. A London paper remarks that this foreign
ecoontrieity is as sensible as a man dining in his
nightgown. Princess Louise nearly caused a
social revolution in Canada by insisting on ladies
wearing low-necked dresses at receptions in the
winter, so the taste seems to run in the family....
Froude has, we hear, become Vice-President and
member of the Executive Committee of the
National Association for Promoting State-Direoted
Colonisation. Mr. Froude’s immense and varied
knowledge of Australia, acquired during his
lengthy residence of six weeks, is evidently re-
cognised in England —A London special jury-
man writes to complain that his coat, which he
left on the bench of the Chief Justice, was stolen.
G-lad to see he doesn’t accuse the judge.. .Ger-
many is bidding strongly for the supply of
material for tne new Chinese railways—which
won t last long if the Germans put the same kind
of material into them they did into the cork-screw
bayonets and swords supplied to John Bull
The Welsh farmers are posting "no rent”
placards An Irish process-server has been
stripped and tarred all over by men disguised as
women—The Vicar of Wheelock, Chesnire, has
refused to allow the members of his choir to re-
sume their places in church because they had at-
tended a dancing-class. When the choir went to
their places on a Sunday they were summarily
turned away There are 82 steam-hammers in
Krupp’s Works, of from 4001 b. weight to 60 tons.
The largest is “ Fritz,” whose 50 tons fall on an
anvil and anvil-block weighing together 1250 tons,
these resting on a foundation 100 ft. deep An
Irish bailiff has been shot. No burial-ground,
dared receive the remains; with difficulty a spade'
was procured to dig the grave; by a baekway the
coffin had to be carried from the house, and
the constabulary had to guard the old man’s
resting-place The Queen’s Proctor has at
last decided to re-open the Crawford-Dilke
divorce case. The proverb about stirring
dirty water is sure to be verified..... The judge,
to convicted husband-poisoner: "Have you any-
thing to state why the last sentence of the law
should not be passed upon you ?” She (In a timid
voice): "Yes, your Honor, they told me that
mourning would be so becoming to me.”.. .
Asked Douglas Jerrold of his office boy, “What
you so late this morning?” “ Well, sir,” re-
plied the youth, “ I’ll tell you the truth. It’s just
this—l should have been in plenty o’ time, but the
WEIGHT OF WOE.
HOARDER: “I’M TIRED OF EATING HASH THREE TIMES A DAY."
LANDLADY: "I SHOULD THINK YOU WOULD BE. NO ONE CAN CARRY ALL THE
LOAD YOU DO WITHOUT BEING TIRED."
fact is, I went and sawr my aunt ’anged bn the way*
I was never friendly with ’er or noUnnk o’ that;
but I felt I ought to go out o’ reSpeok to the
family I” Jerrold, having listened gravely, paused
for some momentq, and then solemnly and sternly
said: “James, you-vwill please to remember in
future that the anis establishment is
always 'Business beforCTiTeasure.”’ A Welsh
girl lately told an English tourist that the name of
her cottage was Lletyllif yllfynwy, that her father
worked at Chwarel and her bro-
thers at Rhosllanerchrugog and Llanenddwynew-
mllanddwywe respectively; she had one sister at
Llanfairmathafareithnf, and another at Llanfair-
pwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobw 11 gertrobwlly-
landysiliogogogoch — The ships Nile and Trafab
gar, now building, are the largest and most
heavily-armoured vessels ever constructed for
the British navy, and will cost £900,000 each. They
will probably be the last large ironclads built...
Refrigeration of the lobe of the ear will stop hio-
cough, whatever its cause. An expensive cure
for those who’d require a whole refrigerator for
each ear... When Labouehere’s anti-hereditary
resolution was put in the Commons, four peers’
sons voted for the abolition of their own
fathers A Parisian father, determined
that his son shall grow up in accord
with the spirit of the age, has given him
the name of Dagger Revolver Fisticuff
Louis Mazzantini, the great Spanish bull-flghter,
has bad the good sense to withdraw his candida-
ture for the electoral divisions of Vergara and
Tudela, at the solicitation of the Liberals.
Australian parliaments and Australian city cor-
porations wouldn’t hold together but for the bull
and pig-fighters—the aldermanic butchers who
supply our hash-houses with bull-beef and stag-
mutton— The Queen of Italy employs a female
physician. Whenever the Queen feels a little out of
sorts she sends for her, and the two talk about the
latest fashions. This is a medicine that will oure
almost any woman The second great gun made
by Krupp for Italy is 43ft. long, and throws a shell
a ton in welrht—At a late date H. M. Stanley was
ill in London of paralysis of the stomach Glad-
stone, at whgm the duchesses turned up their
i loses when he asked them one after the other to
take the post of Mistress of the Robes, has cut the
Gordian knot by nraettoally abolishing the office.
....The novel “Valentine” written by W. H.
Astor, the American millionaire, is said to be of
great interest and cleverly written. Money and
imagination are rarely possessed by the same
person They put him into an asylum for inebri-
ates. As soon as he had been lifted out of the cab
he asked: "Is this the place where you treat
drunkards?” “Yes.” ** Well, I’m one. Where’s
the bar ?”....Two London curates disguised them-
selves as labourers, and, gaining admittance to the
St. Olave's Union, worked there all day, for which
they received a loaf each and sixpence In money.
This feat astonished the Londoners; The idea of
a Ritualistic ourate earning honest money by
doing useful work was like anew revelation....
A school-girl has puzzled her teacher with this:
If the oldest child of the British ruler succeeds
to the throne, what would happen if the oldest
child was twins?” Intelligent housemaid: “ Oh,
please, miss, there was a young gentleman called
when you was out. He didn’t leave no card, miss,
but I can show you who he is, ’cause there are
three of his photygraphs in your album.” “Do
you ever sweep under the bed, Mary?” “Yes,
marm, when I’m in a hurry.”.... A musical autho-
rity says young singers should imitate the birds.
They certainly should—birds go out in the woods
to sing.. Life is short—only four letters in it.
Three-quarters of it is a “lie ” and half of it is an
if.” Ah exchange says: “Two Chicago doctors
recently pronounced a woman dead when she was
not dead.” i They probably thought that as two
doctors had treated her it was impossible that she
could still be alive The Jersey Bank, whoso
chief officials now stand charged with fraud of
various kinds and degrees, is stated to have been
insolvent ever since 1817, although, in the mean-
time, 6 per cent dividends have been regularly
paid, and £lOOO carried to the reserve fund every
half-year. We have not yet heard what place of
worship the bank officials were in the habit of
attending Randolph Caldecott died of heart
disease, following on rheumatic fever. ...The Ger-
man War Office is training dogs to be used as sen-
tinels on outposts in time of war. Yon Moltke
must have been reading in “His Natural Life”
about the dogs at old Port Arthur.
A defeated candidate for the (West Mel-
bourne electorate has presented a petition to the
Speaker against the return of the other candidate
on the ground that he “ treated the voters.” It is
pleasing to know that the petitioner—Langton by
name—was defeated. Four lines to him:—
What I rob a voter of his beer!
Much meanness this denotes;
For if no beer flows -look you here—
What use is there in votes ?
A Collingwood Salvation A rmy “ Capting,”
one Bray, has married a she-Lieutenant named
Hayes. The cow-bell :
Any donkey for a Bray,
If he’s lucky might get hay;
But this captain only brays.
And hallelujah! he gets Hayes.
Specimen of yokel literature. Says the
Queanbeyan Times, of Sir ’Enery: “ It would little
matter to us what opinion this exploded old
political sky-rocket entertains of our intellectu-
ality, only that in his fall he lets a little light upon
the feeling of the Sydney people towards the
country population.” We would ask thelQ.T. man
if he ever noticed an exploded sky-rocket sneddiDg
light in its fall ? But we are glad to to see some
one come forward to vindicate the intellectuality
of the crushed place.
The Vic f orian Easter manoeuvres lacked
not in brilliant and exciting adventures. Daring
deeds and general indifference to death and danger
were the order of the day and night. Men in
whose business veins the blood runs sluggishly
enough in a general way, became hot and eager
for martial distinction. Mr. Lorimer, the dauntless
Minister of Defence (successor to Colonel Soft-
goods Sargood) sought the bubble reputation, even
at the muzzle of a sentry’s musket. After night
had flung her inky shroud upon the dewy earth
and the brave defenders of Queenscliff fort, obli-
vious of their perilous position, were thinking
sadly of the mothers and sweethearts they might
ne’er behold again, Mr. Lorimer, assisted by Major-
General Downes, climbed unobserved over the
parapet wall of the fort. So deeply lost in reverie
were the sentries that the intrepid Lorimer had
some trouble in finding one, but when he did he
despatched the cowering wretch to the officer in
charge, and demonstrated how the fort could be
captured by adventurers like himself this,
Mr. Lorimer and the Major-General crawled
through some lines and surprised a camp in a
manner strongly suggestive of Frederick the
Great, spying round for himself. True, the
Minister of Defence was eventually taken pri-
soner, but not before he had clearly proved that
one half of the Victorian army oould be speedily
destroyed by a hostile force composed entirely of
wily Lorimers. For not all of that gallant host
slumbered, slept, or played euchre during the
night watches. Point Franklin fort was happy in
the possession of a sentry whose eagle eye not a
mosquito oould escape. Mr. Lorimer would have
stood no chance of getting into that fort under
the friendly cover of night. This sentry erred on
the side of over-alertness. Once during the small
hours he called the garrison to arms by firing his
rifle. The men rushed out in answer to the signal,
and the sentry pointed to a dark spot in the dis-
tance. In an Instant 30 of the boldest spirits were
in hot pursuit. Madly they rushed through the
scrub, rifles in hand, until the enemy, fairly ex-
hausted by the chase, lay down and calmly
awaited death. The enemy was a oow, and when
the adventurous 30 returned panting to camp they
solemnly eursod their lynx-eyed sentinel. As a
trophy of war a Queensoiiff cow is but a poor
tning compared with the Soudan goat.
No family should be without it, no remedy
is more reliable, none more infallible than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
That Wolfe’s Schnapm is a medicine contain-
ing great virtues is undeniable.
Woman Liems
Constable to cautious witness at Sydney
Central Court: “Do you know what this woman
does when she’s out ? ” Witness: “Do you know
what your wife does when she’s out—or for that
matter when she’s in either ? ” The retort ambigu-
ous always rankles.
A widow in Japan who is willing to think
of matrimony wears her hair tied and twisted
round a long shell hair-pin placed horizontally
across the back of the head. If the same custom
obtained in Australia, journalism should know us
no more. We would start a shop for the sale
long shell hair-pins.
Japanese etiquette requires that the lady
shall give the signal for the termination of a visit
from a gentleman. Japanese customs are singularly
like our own. In this country the lady gives the
signal for the termination of a visit, and the
is: “ George, I think I hear papa out in the back-
yard untying the dog.”
At Melbourne, Joseph Todd was sued for
maintenance by his wife. The bench said he’d
have to pay or “go in.” “ How long will you give
me, your worship ?” asked Joseph. “ You’ll re-
main in gaol till you part the coin, Mr. Todd,”
answered the bench. Then Joseph assumed a
thoughtful attitude and murmured, “ Perhaps if I
go to gaol they’ll cure my gout.” And he went.
Gaol-fare isn’t gouty.
“ During the stay of the Princess of Wales
and her daughters at Torquay the three Princesses
turned up one day at a boot shop with a pieee of
wood, and requested to be supoiied with a pair of
goloshes the length of the stick. On being fur-
nished with the articles thev paid for and had
them wrapped up, and carried them home through
the streets. Even to suggest such a proceed-
ing to some Australian girls would cause them to
faint. But now that royalty does it we may ex-
pect an outbreak of brown paper parcels. In faot
it will come to be looked on as bad form to be
without one.” This is from the Australasian.
It is well that the forests in the Cape Otway
ranges contain th© longest trees in the world, else
the Victorian girl wouldn’t be able to get a stick
big enough to measure her feet with.
Every landlady her own bailiff. We sug-
gest this as a title for a book to the N.Z. lady—wife
of a settler at Kunipuni (wherever in thunder that
may be)-whose husband having failed repeatedly
in his efforts to eject a tenant who would not
“ part ” the rent of a cottage he ocoupied, which
cottage belonged to—but this sentence is getting
too mixed. The fact is that she took the law into
her own hands one day, when her husband was
absent, and marched over to the cottage. The
male tenant was ouc. His wife, however, was in.
Unto her the landlady—" Have you got that rent ?”
“No—l-.” “Then out you go. Pack ud. I’ll
give you a hand.” In the course of 40 minutes the
whole Pantheon of household gods belongifig to
that tenant were piled under the canopy of
heaven, the front door was locked, and the back
door, having no lock on it, was nailed up. If all
landladies were as smart as this one, it would be—
well, it would be a poor time for current literature.
She had the style of a good cash-customer
about her, and as she sailed into the Pitt-street
shop the carpet-trotter washed his hands in invisi-
ble water, and, bowing and backing, left her to
the tender mercy of the gabbiest shopman he had.
This party was a hurricane at talking, but in his
anxiety to pull down half the shop and expatiate
on the good qualities of his wares he got a trifle
mixed. The lady wanted a parasol, and was rum-
maging through a 4ft. heap when Mr. Tapejostler
suddenly picked one up, opened it, and exclaimed:
“Now, madamel there’s a beauty. Ours is the
only place in the colony where such an artiole as
that can be had for either love or money. Isn’t it
charming ? Look at that silk. Particularly hob-
serve the quality, the finish, and the general toot
dissemblaye of the whole. Feel of it. Pass your
hand over it. Ain’t it a pufflot artistic creation ? ”
“Yes,” she replied, as she olutoaed the creation;
“ that’s my old ’un. I gave 7s. fid. for it in Mudgee,
and just laid it on the counter.”
Whazzher matter wi’ thish ? An ad. in the
Brisbane Courier reads: " Gentleman engaged a
bedroom at an hotel yesterday, and left his lug-
gage there. Has forgotten the address of the
hotel, and would like to ascertain the whereabouts
of the same. E. S—, office of this paper,” Public-
house must have drunk its own grog, and then
cleared into the bush to hide from the snakes that
came out of the luggage.
From the Melbourne Agb, which is gene-
rally supposed to be strongly in favour of Tem-
perance:—" The following persons, accidentally
Injured, were treated yesterday at the Melbourne
Hospital. Jeremiah Donovan, suffering from
delirium tremens. John Larkins, with contusions
resulting from being assaulted by a woman with a
bottle.” If this be accidents then our shares in
the Accident Insurance Society are for Immediate
sale.
Here is a grisly item. We lake it from
the telegraphic columns of the Melbourne Argus:
—“ A man named James Key was lost from Win-
ton (Q.) last Saturday, and yesterday his dead
body was found after having been traoked 70
miles.” The dead body that could travel 70 miles
must be a caution among corpses. But why oould
it not have travelled the other way and given
itself in charge of the Coroner ? Why did it not
also write a diary, or engage itself to produce a
series of sketches entitled (say) “Picturesque
Queensland ” for the Argus ?
Tbe following Municipal by-law gem
polished up by the Waverley (Sydney) CounoiT has
been confirmed by his Excellency Baron Oaring-
ton, with the usual sapient advice of the Execu-
tive Council:—“Any person or persons loitering
in or obstructing any street, lane, or pathway in
the borough of Waverley, by standing or congre-
gating thereon, and refusing to move or disperse
when requested so to do by any member of the
police force or an authorised officer of the council,
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding £3.” How
a person can “disperse ” can only be explained by
the astute mimbir av th’ fooroe who swore he
“surrounded th’ prishoner with much sarcum-
specshin.”
He kissed her!
Not with the loud, explosive smack
He kissed her;
But with a tender laying-on of lips,
As gently as the stars lie on the blue
He touched the sweet, uncertain mouth,
In doubt to meet his kiss half way,
In doubt if it would come unsought,
Delicious doubt, dear hesitant!
It came as come those organ-notes
In music, welling from the heart,
Deep, tremulous, and yearning* full
Of ecstasy prolonged, prolonged, prolonged,
He kissed her.
Yes, he did,
And put it there to aoak,
You bet!
Yum yum!
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Keep it always in the house
and then you will have a friend in time of need.
Among tonios with, an alooholio basis!
Wolfe’s Schnapps holds the foremost place, and
is besides a good medicine.


Bra,y Xjlolxtn.ex”,
24 ©'Connell-street, Bydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, lu great variety, from £53, Catalogues post free,
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
80LE AGI NTS fox BAKER'S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
VELVETEEN
A
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis." •
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OQ,
application. -*
i'VN-'
mm
V^e
■
■:i'rr±-j-A
TS
00
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & GO.,
IMPOSTERS OF
BRITISH Sc FOREIGN BOOTS Sc SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
Tlie finest quality of Goods in the above lines.
278 and 412 G-eorge-st., Sydney.
* *
S3OH
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals:
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 tO 5 bottlSS
of any extract of Malt in the Market,
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ancl fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd flesh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, <fcc., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hvpophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration,
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lsssitude.
Maltine With Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c. '
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaate to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and ail
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Ssa Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few snoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powders.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PAUL HEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT^g
w>
W
■
INI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGENT
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR? OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies 'the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour,, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a mmt
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
bands and arms, and is perfectly free- from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, fee.
ROWLANDS’ BSSSNCB OF YYRB
produces immediately a perfect change© £® red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to ?s g-lossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
cashing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros-
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
jIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
sydney"b}ranches :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. ... ; .. 675,000
This Bank has Agents ini all the principal cities
throughouifthe UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offier special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBlflN, Acting-Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from.the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may bo made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHBiS REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-stneet.
CONTINUE!) SUCCESS
Off
RILEY BROTHERS’
[ ORIGINAL
£5 DUPLET BALES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
pr* Carriage paid by mail all over the eoloniti
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
yearn, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
rod carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
JSS LADY’S BALE.
® Ladies’ Chemises
f pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Caxniiolea
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb. and
nicely-trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above,
MO GENING BALE,
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Craps Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchemente, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Bobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £&.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets. with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement.
If applied to,
$ RILEY BROTHERS,
106 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated *5 Bales of Drapery
DR, BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
BITTERS.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
“CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
' AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY, 1
‘GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
'RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION-OF URINE,
By the use of this REMEDY the Stomach and
bowels speedijy regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi.
oines faiL
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you -of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action,_ invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through, the activity of these organs, promote the
natural, movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Belle Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the causa
« Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
BEieumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Note.—-Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application !/,
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Munster
of the Gospel, certifying that they arc unable to pay
for medicine. % ?
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o—
Butcher, Fehoa & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOE
New South Wales & Queensland.
fflO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
JL and Sydney Letters, supplied by competes!;
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. 11 Beta,” Bullbtxn Office.
§
m
m
m
m
3
C 3
Ml
CD
2
Q
A
>5
CP
I
3
fl
i
d m
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgeDce. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless Invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Fnloying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In oases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365. ;
if by coach, 2s, 6d, extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & GO.,
43 Goui/BTjrn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed seourely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude,
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what wp say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, IPric-e 3d.
G. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS


THE BAROH AND THE BLACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ When his Excellency Lord Carington
was introduced to the stalwart aboriginal, he
grasped Charley by the hand and said, ‘ How are
you ? * The aboriginal replied, ‘I very glad to see
you, Mr. Gubernor, in my country and Mudgee.’
The baron and the black gripped each other by
the hand. 'Which felt the happier—the black or
the baron ? ”—Westebn Post (Mudgee, N.S.W.)
“ Which was the happier then ? ” you ask us—
The Baron or the Black ? ” Weil, let us think I
This task you’ve set us, not an easy task is,
And needs considering (the violet ink I
Thanks! Here we’d best explain. Harsh colours
jar on
High natures, and, of course, we do not lack
Eor loyalty. With this we’ll treat the Baron,
And afterwards, with common black, the
Black),
Which was the happier (this in violet) ?
The Baron or the Black (this is in both) ?
This is not, as we’ve said, a task to smile at,
It has about it quite a forest growth
Of pros and cons. The Baron may have truly
Known much of happiness, e’en long before
He left his land for this obsequious Thule,
And set his foot upon its curtseying shore.
Bicb, kindly, healthful, not much over 30,
And sent to govern New South Wales—is much
Towards happiness. The chosen friend of Bertie I
This gave felicity its final touch,
Or would have given it, if he had rested
In his own land, and been contented with
A goodly lot, hut as ho since has breasted
The raging sea, and gazed on Burdett Smith—
As, since the days when Beauty, in a flutter
Beheld him caracole down Rotten Row,
fie probably has heard John Cash Neild utter
The sheeted ghosts of jokes of long ago,
br read the “ Oratory” of Buchanan,
Or stood with dauntless front, while ceaselessly,
With unrelenting heart and glib tongue ran on
The frind of Daniel Hinry Dlnihey.
Or seen the letters of Fonetic Francis,
Or marked, a serried rank of helm and spear,
tn the broad light of day the Sydney Lanceahs
tJrge their fleet chargers in a wild career,
Or run his eye o’er waggon-loads of grovel
Produced to order by the hands of men,
Who better far could use a pick and shovel
Than fashion an Address, or wield a pen—
As he has certainly been asked, quite often,
His views about our Harbour, and, no doubt,
His sense of exile to appease and soften.
Had the Post Office Carvings pointed out,
As he has been to Bithurat and to Mudgee
And seen the aldermen those parts produce,
As far as we, by our own hearts, can judge, he
Mußt have been in Heav'n. (Now we will use
‘the black ink, solely, for awhile ) The nigger
(Or Black) has had his joys, though not thesame:
When long ago, a youthful, dusky figure
Through the wild woods he chased the bounding
game,
(Game always bounds, you know,) his life was joy-
ous,
He, fettered by no civilising rules,
Had not the sorrows that the Christian boy has;
No grammar lessons and no Sunday schools
Have his soul misery—no application
Of cane bade aches explore his boyish bones;
tn those fair days his usual occupation
Was bathing publicly, and throwing stones;
No father, if he stayed out late, would pull a
Grim face, and to the wood-shed hail him in—
An odd remonstrance with a nulla-nulla
Made his skull stable, and but made him grin.
In the warm sunshine, ’mid the wattles’ blossom
With other piccaninnies would he fight,
Or, from the hollow gum-tree drag the ’possum
Half dead, and dazzled by the sudden light,
Or, with his tomahawk of stone, the waddy
Shape from the hardest, most reluctant wood,
And, watched by doting parents, from the body
Of some more youthful Black, with it draw
blood.
And later, as his kirghood drew on nearer,
The Heir Apparent showed fit warlike skill,
No other Blaok with a fourteen-foot spear, or
A boomerang, could at such distance kill
His foes. At night, ’mid fires and many a gunyah
Who could moan forth such doleful notes as he?
In Government House (violet) no such fun you
Have as a (black again) Corrobboree.
Yet still a fuller meed of bliss awaited
This sable lord—he took himself a bride,
With whom no household matters were debated
Bave with a sapling on her sounding hide,
Who humped the swag along, and boiled the billy
While he strode on in front, a warrior-king—
Less glorious life in (violet) Piccadilly
Where males are Helots of the marriaga-ring I
Then full felicity (in black ink this lot)
Found him at last. The Christian Pioneer
Determined in Australia to cast his lot
And in his wake, of course, came rum, and beer
And clergymen. The shy untutored savage
Drew near to these and listened when they
spoke—
Learned how their “debbil-debbil” made such
ravage
’Mid human souls-and learned to drink and
smoke.
Here was Elysium, for, of course, the heathen
Abandoned his old want of faith, became
A Christian, and believing he was free, then
From all the dangers of the Lake of Flame,
No more found to his palate ’possum genial
Or, from the dead wood chopped the good white
grub:
Kept by his lubra, through exertions menial,
In beer and ’bacca at some country pub.
Which was the happier? Eicb, in his way, was
Extremely fortunate. Tobacco, drink,
Salvation, idleness—this, we should say, was
Well on for Paradise. (The other ink.)
Buchanan’s speeches, aldermen’s addresses,
Lanceahs and Carving?, Harbour, Neild, no lack
Of Dan. O’Connor, Mudgee—well our guess is
The happier was (you know the ink)— The Black.
STRAIGHT TIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, Now Is the season when “Augur,”
* Vafces,” “ Censor,” “ Nemo,” “ yorkshireman,”
et tout genus omne (N.B.—Subtle Franco-Litin-
English quotation), will give you winners who do
not win, and eauss you to back horses ridden b
the celebrated Johnny Armstrong. I shall tell you
of some real tips I have had and backed, and I be
lieve such eccentric and extraneous information
is as reliable as that of any sporting prophet.
* * * v
My first extraordinary “ offloe” was when
I was being shown over the Essex County Lunati
Asylum by Dr. Campbell. On approaching his
own part of the establishment, he said: “Ishal
now show you a man who’ll interest you. Ha is
like you, fond of betting, and now he i 3 allowed to
bet to his heart’s content.” The patient was
gentleman of income who had gone mad on racing
and whose friends had put him under restraint. H
was quite happy, had a comfortable office, all the
sporting papers, and no end of betting-books, anc
received and paid cheques for fabulous sums. He
tipped me General Peel for the Two Thousand
Guineas, and he won.
* *
Another time I was introduced to a brother
of the highest legal functionary in Sc itland. He
was suffering from the morbus cocruleus, or blue
disease, and his heart had been in such a delicate
state for 10 or 13 years that he had never walked
beyond the garden gate. He had never seen a
race, perhaps not even a racehorse, but he read
the papers and made his own handicaps. He gave
me Casse-TSte for the Grand National? and Cra-
morne for the Derby-both winners.
* • *
Next: At Croydon. The races had all
been run, barring one, and the grand stand was
positively empty except lor one lady in a corner.
I could not resist going up to see who this devotee
could be and with the cheek engendered by youth
and soldiering I addressed her. She told me that
Johnny Goodwin was her “ chap ” and that she had
come to see him win on Perfume. That decided
me. Johnny won, Perfume won, I won, and the
lady went away with the promise of a silk dreis
which I sent her next day. I backed Henry for
the Ascot Cup, because one of my names is Henry,
and none of the papers tipped him. He won.
* * *
Lastly: At the Alexandra Park races, 1
had lost money, and was sick from driaking an
abomination called “Robur” or the “tea-spirit.”
I was sitting on the bottom step of the grand-stand
when a girl with golden hair took up uer position
in front of me. 1 tapped her (very rude, I daresay)
on the back, and toid her, “You should back
Auricomus, because it means golden hair.” The
smile she gave me makes me jump even
now, and when she pulled out a purse the
siz9 of a watch and offered me a sovereign to take
into the ring, I sprang up, for there was little time
to lose, and promising her to be back soon I was
just in time to get 8 to lin tenners. When I
returned after the race and gave her £8 she would
hardly take it, as I had not taken her sov., but she
being fickle, and fine, and French took a lift, back
to town in my cab, leaving her former escort. She
and I were for a long time (three weeks) on nodding
terms until I found that she could drink absinthe
like beer.
• e e
The above were my non-professional tips,
and if the Sydney Lancers have not won to a man
on the Hawkesbury they are nearly as big duffers
as I imagine them to be, bar the Baron, who used to
be of my mind in the matter of Hock still Hock.
HIRBAM ABIEE.
Extract from the notice-book of the
Dublin Chamber of Commerce:—“ We suggest
that a general meeting of the Chamber of Com-
merce be summoned for the purpose of protesting
against the conduct of his ExcelleEcy the Eirl of
Aberdeen in shaking hands with Mr. Michael
Davitt in the Mansion House on Thursday, March
A Scotch meenister was seriously castigat-
ing a stray ram of his floek for some misdemeanor
not unconnected with the census returns. He re-
minded him for his edification and example, of the
case of the virtuous Joseph who fled and left his
toga in Mdme Potiphar’s clutches. “Hoot awa man r
said Jock, “Joseph, ye ken was only a bit laddie,
but if it had been King Dawvid noo d’ye think he
wad hae fled ? Deil the fears o’m.'’ Jock was
probably right.
Marrickville merely wants from the Trea-
sury a new post, telegraph, and money-order
office; a courthouse, a watchhouse (very badly),
and new town hall; a tramway station; and at a
public meeting, held in that horse-leech’s
daughter’s suburb, the residents were implored
not to confine their views to the present needs of
the borough, but to agitate with a due regard to
the requirements of the future, so that posterity
would go down on its knees 77 times a day, and
bless them all back as far as the 123 ad generation.
Advt. from London Standard : “ Wanted,
bedroom, smallness not slightest consequence, as
living room, or full use small sitting. Cooking.
Young man providing could find cold meals soma-
times. Within about mile Strand, nearer preferred
Small obliging family taking no lodgers preferred.
Terms very low, in advance. Means very small.
Quiet lodger for years. Reference, high respect-
ability obtainable. Fullest particulars indispens-
able before calling. Bath acceptable. Hardest
mattrass or palliasse essential. Call Sunday or
evening, late, A., care newsagent, 166 Waterloo-
Road.”
It is remarked that though heavy supplies
of Tumut-grown tobacco are sent to Sydney, ‘ no
one can tell where it goes. No tobacconist admits
selling the fine-cut Tumut.” But you can buy any
quantity of fine-out Btringy-bark, willow-leaf, tar,
liquoriee-chips, hemp, and treacle, though. Ana
if you go in for plug, any number of Sydney
tobacconists can supply you with plugs containing
a cord of wood each. Indeed it is quite oommon
now for a man to ask the tobacconist for the loan
of his crossout saw and maul and wedges every
time he buys a plug. It may be a loss in tobacco,
but it’s a great saving in fuel.
The Pald Marl recently caused a house
to house enquiry to be made in a oertain London
street in order to ascertain the true condition cf
the poorer classes in that city. The first 16 houses
visited had 153 inhabitants, whoso collective e<s.n -
ings for the previous three months amounted to
£465 10s. After deducting rent from this sum
tkere remained just 6i. a day for each man,
woman, and child to live upon. Yet the tenants of
these houses were labourers, machinists, bakers
seamen, ironworkers, and so on. Nor was this
street the worst that could be found -in fact, it is
said to have been above the average of the side-
streets of the parish.
“ Tumbarumba is a native word that
beautifully express* s its own meaning, the sound
being married to the sense. It means in English
* Sounding Ground,’ and is dcr.ved from a hill near
the town, the remains of an extinot volcano,
which Is probably hollow and certainly sonorous
under foot. If you were to roll a large stone £owa
this hill, and wished to convae an idea of the
sound made to anyone, *Turnb.rumba ’ would
serve your purpose better than any word ”
We commend this paragraph, from the Adelong
Argus. It is a beautiful instance of onomotapuAa.
If you don t know what tin t means, asm the
honourable member for lumbiramba.
Rider Cook, M.P., of the English Com-
mons, was “got at” very neatiy lately. He had
introduced a Kill which members were extremely
anxious to shelve. Suddenly, however, he found
duriDg- his speeoh that a keen curiosity was
aroused, and, as he spoke, he was pressed to read
his voluminous quotations, and even to repeat
huge columns of figures. Eiger to oblige, he elo-
quently spouted until the fatal hour struck when
business on Wednesdays must cease, and then it
dawned upon him that he had talked his own Bill
out of existence. Would that some N B.W. repre-
sentatives would go one better, and talk themselves
out, and vanish in vapour through the roof. We
don t refer to you, Daniel, or to Frawreis the
Fonatic either.
xt Y olunteer Corporal Bludge, of Dubbo,
N.S.W., has expressed the opinion that war be-
tween Russia and Austria is not, as General Tg-
n®tiefC says, Inevitable. The corporal has arrived
at this conclusion, after a prolonged study of tne
probable influences at work in the minds of the
three Emperors at their meeting last year. He is
of opinion that there was some reserve manifested
on the part of all three monarchs, and, judging
from his own experience in *he Dubbo dietriot, no
three men can be got together to act unreservedly,
or trust one another. He thinks that a permanent
peace can best ba conserved by playing off one
against another. All in the bar welcomed him
back from the encampment, and as the weary
veteran blew off the froth, he nodded assent to
the cabling his views home to the Duke of Cam-
bridge. Tne corporal nodded, but did not commit
bimself to any statement.
The crumbs which fall from Dives’ table
in London are now being systematically collected
by the Baroness Burdetc-Coutta and Lady Woles-
ley, who employ carts to gather up the frag-
ments, which are then cooked and turned out as
soups, stews, or puddings to be sold to the poor at
a penny a dish. This commendable system of
charity is being rapidly extended throughout
London. The amount of distress intheEaglish
metropolis is assuming fearful dimensions. The
other side of the story is supplied by the state-
ment that the London ground rents of the Duke
of Westminster are worth £150,000 a year at least,
with a reversion to an income of; not less than
£1,500,000 a year; the Duke of Bedfords amount
to £lOO 000, with a reversion of £750,000 ; and the
Portland family diaw £BO,OOO now, with a rever-
sion to £700,000. The starving poor may console
themselves with these figures. England's old
nobility suffer no diminution of wealth.
“Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—That doctor of
yours who asked his patient how to spell his name
(having forgotten it) could have learned sotne-
tbing from old T d, of glorious
memory. His bones are whitening at Hell's Gates,
between the Normanby and the Palmer. These
are his exact words to me, Scotty the Wrinkler: -
“Isay, Paul (he called me Phul instead of Phil,
in deference to my nationality), isn't it the devil
when you meet a man who knows you, and all
about you, and yet you can’t call him to mind?
Ot course, you know, you've been on the spring
when you met him, but in what pub. or company
the Lord only knows, and he won’t tell under
drinks all round. I have a nearly certain dodge
for discovering his identity, I call him ‘ old fel-
low,’ and ask * Where have you been ever slnse? ’
To gigantic intellects like ours the answer will
furnish the clue—and, by the way, Phifl, the latest
telegram from Melbourne is‘Long time between
drinks.’ ”
The great Romeike, of London, who sup-
plies newspaper-extracts from all parts of the
globe to order, has been commissioned by a client
to discover the causes of failure ia life. With a
view to this end, Romeike has sent out circulars
to all curates of more than 40 years of age, to all
unknown barristers and journalists, and to a host
of members of Parliament and public men.” The
enquiry-form to be filled in is as followsTo
what causes do you attribute your failure in life ?
I, (name) of (profession) .attribute my
failure in life to the following causes:—l, drink
(say what drink); 2, gambling (turf, cards, or
what?); 3, dishonesty; 4, unfortunate acquaint-
ances; 5, marriage; 6, single life; 7, disinclination
to work; 8, lending or borrowing (say which); 9,
unpopular views (political and religious) ; 10,
tobacoo (in what form); 11, general incapacity;
12, other causes, general remarks.” We would
like to know from Mr. Romeike how many of
those whom he brands as failures give “dishonesty”
as the cause, and how many more allege “ disin-
clination to work ” and general “ incapacity” as the
reason of their non-success. Further, we would
like to know how many men are seeking for
Romeike to thank him with a shot-gun or crowbar
for the keen interest he takes in their history, and
the estimate he forms of their position in life.
Romeike should, if he be permitted to live, circular-
ise the Australian nobility in London—beginning
with Salmon Wilson and Heaton—and ask them to
what causes they attribute their “ success.”
A romanoe of rum. A navvy lately up
North got howlingly drunk, and “ kept it up ” for
nearly a month, finishing, as might be expected, by
having a visit from the pink-eyed snake. He
dived into the bush, and kept on diving until,
early one morning, he struck the tent of a swag-
man pitched on the bank of a creek. After sur-
veying the surroundings, and taking a peep at the
sleeper in the tent, he possessed himself of a
butcher’s knife which was sticking in a gum-tree
close by, and determined to amuse himself by re-
ducing the surplus population. He crawled
stealthily up to the tent, cut the rope which held
the flies, and then crept in and up beside the
sleeper. For one moment the knife was held
aloft, the next it was sticking in the swagman's
side. With a shriek the wounded man arose, and,
drawing the knife from his body, closed with the
madman. A fight for life then began. All round
the floor they fought, the swagmau stabbing at
the madman whenever he got an opportunity, the
madman, in his turn, pulling the hair and beard
off his antagonist, and scratching, tearing, and
biting his flesh like a dog. In the fight the teDt
was torn down, and presently the two, looked to-
gether, started to roll towards the bank of the
creek In a few minutes more they were rolling
down it. In the roll they became parted, and both
now stood at the bottom bleeding, maimed, and
glaring. For fully five minutes thus they stood,
and the swagman, letting the knife fall, uttered
one word, “Dickl” “ Harry 1“ came huskily from
the Btranger, as the fire of madness laded from his
eyes, and big tears rolled down his furrowed
cheeks. And then those two wrecks of tneir former
selves feebly stepped forward to shake hands.
They were brothers 1
The news cabled to the Australian dailies
that Greece his been foroed by the Powers to dis-
arm, has a large significance. The stubbornness
of the attitude of the present Greet Government,
and the iBBU< 8 depending on war, or no war, may
justify us in recallinga few particulars. The Greet
army and navy are being largely increased, and a
loan of 33 millions is called for, which can only be
for warlike purposes against their old enemy the
Turk. If there is war, it will be the third attempt
within the past 60 years to recover their ancient
provinces. Canning was the only English states-
man who has shown any real desire to assist the
Greeks in restoring freedom to their country.
All statesmen since have aimed to strengthen
Tui key—not that they love the Turk, but beoause
he is handy as a buffer to block the Russian in
the Bouth. For that purpose the Turk has never
been allowed to be crushed, however much his
rule has been detested. In 1833 the British as fisted
with Russia and France to give Greece a king.
They gave them Otho—a Bavarian nonentity who
lived in grandeur—in Munich. But they com-
pelled Greece to go on paying a lerge annual sum to
the Sultan. Otho was got rid of m 1863, after 30
years of tyranny and civil war. Prince George of
Denmark, brother of the Princess of Wales, was
sent next. Tte British discouraged all attempts
at independence, and dutiog the Crimean war,
when the Greeks were about to strike a blow the
t-Dglish lleet blocked them. Again, in the Russo-
Turkiah war, the Greeks were compelled to stay
their hand under a vague promise that their rights
should be corsi'ered after the war was over. No-
thing has ever been done for them, however. Qf
late years another powerful yeasna why the com-
bined Powers try to keep back eeco is that the
Turk is overhead and ears in debt everywheie,
and the bondholders want their interest, which
they could never get if Turkey were crushed.
Nothing could so clearly bring out 'he enormous
power of the money-bag in shaping modern
diplomacy as the steady and persistent way in
wnieh statesmen, while theoretically praising
liberty and pretending a sort of worship for old
Hellas and her glorious Marathon still muzzle the
UreeK people every time they make a move to get
their fangs into their brutal old foe. It is believed
that Greece will not be held back much longer ex-
cept by actual force.
According to the Pall Mall, as quoted
b ££ he ney Kcrr °, Sir .John Lubbock came out
with a list of 100 authors whom he thought the
best a man could read. Letters were sent to
many eminent living writers asking them to draw
up a similar list, and John Ruskin Instead of giv-
ing a list, scored out sundry names from Sir John’s
.V’o5 IV A in,ir reasons for doing so. For Instance
St. Augustine’s Confessions”—because people
would do better to study other saints than them-
selves. He recommends St. Patrick wid yer lave.
John Stuart Mill—because “bis day is over.”
Kingsley—because his sentiment is false, and his
tragedy frightful. Darwin—becau?e he has a
mortal fascination for all vainly curious and Idly
speculative persons, and has collected, In the train
of him, every Impudent imbecility in Europe, like
a dim comet wagging its useless tail of phosphor-
escent nothing across the steadfast stars. And so
on, drawing his pen through works which com-
pared with John's writings as regards their effect
on modern thought are as the turning of the
tide to the sweeping-back of vain drippings
under the door. His last remark shows how
thoroughly he has failed to grip the great
movements of modern science. He can’t
get intelligible books on natural history : “ I
chanced at breakfast the other day to wish I
* D ®w something of the biography of a shrimp, the
rather that I was under the impression of having
seen jumping shrimps on a sandy shore express
great satisfaction in th air life. My shelves are
loaded with books on natural history, but I could
bad nothing about shrimps except that ‘they
swim in tne water cr lie upon the sand in shoals,
and are taken in multitudes for the table.’ ” Just
so. Dut if John had read another “ dim comet
wagging his phosphorescent tail of nothing across
the steadfast stars” (which are not steadfast, but
moving a hundred times faster than we are), he
would have found that Huxley selected the
shrimp s big uncle, the Crayfish, as the subject ol’ a
whole standard treatise on the development of
animal life, and if John wanted to know why the
shnmp wagged his tail, Huxley would be the man
to tell him, unless, indeed, which is likely
he wants somebody to ascertain for him the ipirbS
tual cravings after art of that delectable little
sunoer-bird. Take half a pint with a cruet, John,
ai d you will know all you aye likely to know
about the soul of the shrimp.
WILLIAM BEACH.
The champion oarsmen of the world, who has re-
cently left our shores to visit England and America
to maintain and emphasize his claims against all
comers, was born at Alder ton, in Surrey, England,
in 1851, and when two years of age emigrated to
Dapto, Lake Iliawarra, N.S.W. He was brought
up to his father’s trade, and while toiling like a
young Vulcan in the smithy, unconsciously deve-
loped that magnificent physique whioh has sinoa
brought him world-wide distinction. When about
23 years of age, Beach commenced rowing on the
Iliawarra leaked against local competitors; from
the ouiest be kept winning, until gradually handi-
capped out of all races.
Briefly stated, his professional career is as
follows:—Made his advent in 1880 in a handicap
skiff race, at Woolloomooloo, and won, defeating
P. Ward and J. M’Clerkin; rowed second to H-
Pearce at Pyrmontßegatta three weeks later; de*
feated by Neil M’Donald at Anniversary Regatta
in 1883, but afterwards turned the tables on M’Don-
ald; Gascoigne beat him; defeated Charles Rey-
nolds, the light skiff rower of Australia, in a splen-
did race on the Parramatta, Reynolds dropping out
of his boat exhausted; Solomon and other soullers
acknowledged his prowess; on the 7th March, 1883.
first public appearance of the champion in an om-i
rigger in race for Punch Trophy, and finished
second to Rush, both Trickett and Laypook being
in the rear; defeated T. Clifford in light skiff races
beat Trickett five times out of six matches; in 1883
was defeated by Trickett for Hunt Trophy, to
decide who should meet Hanlan in place of Lay-
cock (who waa disabled) ; Lav cock, however,
covered, and was beaten by Hanlan on 31th May*
1881; Beach defeated Hanlan on lfifch August, 1881,
greatly to the astonishment of all; defeated Hanlan
again on the 38r,h March, 1885, rowing him down in
the earlier part of the race; just previously ho had
defeated Clifford; defeated Neil Mattersou on 10th
Deoember, 1885, with greatest of ease. A man in-
dulging in such struggles must, of necessity, feel
the want of an aid to nature in keeping his physical
condition up to the highest attainable point, and
it is not surprising to us that Mr. Beach candidly
states that during bis training, prevous to meetng-
Edward Hanlan the second time for the world s
ohampionship, his trainer procured for him War-
ners safe cure, and Beach also took a supply with
him on board the Cuzco, that he might have it
constantly by him. His system of training involves
a run of two or three mi ca before breakfast, a
walk of six or seven miles afterwards, and a pull
over the course. After dinner comes another two-
mile walk and a second puli over the course, dur-
ing which he rows himself right out, eases off, and
then pulls again. A long walk concludes the day,
and he goes to bed at 9 o’clock. Beach carefully
avoids spirits, and does not smo&e while training.
If be feels a bit out of sqrts, a resort to Warner’s
safe cure soon puts him all right again. He rows
with soulls having blades of great width, those
used by him in the matohes with Hanlan being 6
inches wide, 9 feet 6 iocaea long, and 3 feetB inches
inboard, and he rows his stroke clean out to the
end.
The champion carries with him the heartiest
wishes for his success from a federated Australia,
and the sincere belief that he will be equal to the
task of accomplishing all that his most ardent ad-
mirers hope for.
“I was recommended to use Wolfe'S
Schnapps by a medical man of large experience
who evidently know its value.”
Premier bad-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sde and Dare, decorators. Bali
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flay and iloral decorations, 6014 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Ask your medical attendant what he
thinks of Wolfe’s Schnapps as a means of
promoting- digestion.


MAM
sa». STOUT.—This f*rourite bran**
2®fiof the h*f~? oted with great care, fromraf
n*?kui Utn w of the oelebratod firm of
Dublin, and therefor©
11 APES & SHAW
>re now opening (almost dally)
Novelties
Broaching autumn season,
|Qp ®A.T ATTENTION has been given by our
®ntatlve In London to the gro wing require-
ments of
° Ur trade, and we shall have
«uu. we bqhii uuve
°Pfi» Fon inspection
6 followln,r Now Ooods THIS DAT : *"
cl aBps C^u?? ErpTE GLOVES, four and sis
Otjfe Q^’ 11 a the newest winter shades
(s Peclai!vm oVE .’ the “FLORA” KID GLOVI
curable f>w aß i. ul:actured tor us, and mot pro
buttons elBe wher e ) t in all colours, four and sis
. >enShs D B S „ SE D SWEDE GLOVE?, in al
P ®APer 0 t 00l0UrB
p UIN SRt Aw ’ 8 PLUSHES and VELVETS
E SHAW’S NEW STRIPED VELVET!
jJjSo“ lltins nbw mbrveillbot
tI “»WS , gl T ||4WW LATEST EASHIOt
s ™™ ° an
NU E N’B an vu^^’ S BLACK CASHMERES
II^G S» * nd other new blacl
QRout-s i f mournin '»
QUALITIES^ 1 SILB CRAPBB > VERY BBS'
BEAUTIFUL AUTUMN COS
jßgrj, ’ ran Bing in prices from 255. to 8 guinea
goods ED * NEW frillings and laci
hosieky * NEW CUFFS an
Eadies ' and Children’s Underclothing
Flowers and Feathers, Milliner;
PEAPESIr SHAW,
328 Ge^RGE-STREET
RAW VASE,LINE.,
m
A
and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
Ventii Leather p™^ B ’ ai i d Prevents their growth.
Brotn }} eraokin^? erv^' lve 11 ,s Invaluable—pre-
htf'tai I*® antt.oms.nrt nd reader " it waterproof.
, * re Bnntities, uneqallen as a
hso*.pjous,. for keeping In perfect order
l G rtr,o or the ahnlT’ * O, ** 18 the sole material
Mattes V a Burposes in the Austrian and
oer B . UJIO B. sold by aU Saddlers and Store-
11l M B °LE AGENTB:
**“!£,S* B U«N & CO.,
X 2 t“ SAD BLERS’ IRONMONGER!
Sydney.
«HTCASTLESS %
lManufacturing hatters
| GEORGE STREET
-!-„ SVd n ey
' NEwSISAPEf
,‘ JJ; Wallace,
L,te/F QfZ 7 evwy deaort P tion oi
v r Gf *~uw, Mercantile and
*m22 *Woneiy.
Foster’s Bug fa Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
PS
=
S
S’
an
w
in
£
Vaß^g
nzi
b
n
*M
saiV
r.
m
m
&r
s.
Bjk&a PALJI ir.m
Tht JBBBT ALB and STOUT mthe Market
MILD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS 1
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commerciai. Chambers,
BOND STREET, BYDNEY.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
rjIKE
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY. RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY,
w THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour* stationery, and time, writing much
'aster tifean expert penmen, and condensing matter
ro less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
re oorters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and savie much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Olarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1868.
INCORPORATED BT ACT or PARLIAMENT,IB73
Paid-up Capital. 4800,008
Reserve Fund .... 4155,060
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chains an.
Hen. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
C. Rol’leston, Esq., CJI.G.
: SHOUGfIy
sdf
JBL. B. Oohen, Esq.
Ginkral Max agues:
I. A. A. Wilson.
Bbobitabt:
Hector Alien.
Branches in N»w South Wauu :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford.-Nymran,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Mward Chapman, Es<
Sir Saul Bamuel,K.C.M
Geo. P. Slade, Bag.
Geo. H. Alexander, Bag.
i MAKA.GIR • Geo. H# Alexander, £IQ«
' London Banksrs:
The National Provincial Bank of England
Vm bank transacts all usual Banking- and Pinan
toreney Business on the most favourabletermf
nn '♦discounted daily.
ni i ' negotiated and advances made against Woo,
nd oti '**' Produce shipped to England for sale.
Tn w«- V, Nervaus Invalids and others
seeking:
Health, strength, and energy.
Dr. SHARDS,| M.K.’c.BMaig.,
DT'qttjtj'q inform suff jrcrs of both sexes
thftth « h«. ' permanently established himself
fdnflvandm Win future be consulted at his
rooms I& ? d a£r 'ng-street, free of charge, by
sufferers of ' 9Xes from Nervous and Phy-
sic* f r TU?h nitv Hvh ousted Vitality, Premature
CASE UNDERTAKEN.
1 CURE EVERY
When I say I Cure, I
them for a time and the
I mean a radical cure. 1
private diseases a life-loi
warrant a cure in every
personal consultation,
Many persons, from the
imprudence, have brought a.
ness that has reduced the gen
as to induce almost every ot
real cause of thio disease sc.
do not mean merely stop
ujhave them return again;
(have made nervous and
\g study, and can safely
qgse undertaken after a
effects of youthful
Si .jut a state of weak-
%cal system so much
%r disease, and the
WiCely ever being
real eaune or lujij uioeaoo 01, f nr „™ rv ~
suspected, they have been doc Wo„5inI e fL
thing but the right one. Notv,
many valuable remedies that me. Mat™ POience has
produced for the relief of this cj “*? t X®? 1 ’
none of the ordinary modes of tre, l Private
cure. During my extensive hospit. „PZ: V ,,m1
practice in Bogland, I have disco\ « n 0 e )!pm®
concentrated remedies, and with t
extensive Galvanic Appliances, 1 am
to guarantee a cure in every case - , n _ .
Consultation costs nothing, and I wil '^ ou at
once whdther your case la curable or i
Dr. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., &>$■,
No. 7 SPRING STREET (off Pltt-street ‘ iNorth),
jSYDJ05Y.
D S. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS,, 3.9 OASTLBREAl #H-BT
GRADUATE IN IA jSliofiufe AND SUR 9EKY,
Registered Physf uian of' New South Wa. 0*-
OiHoe Hoturs:
10 a.m. to 4 p.nx. Montf ay, Wednesday, <•
_ and Saturday Ever lings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nerv»putf, an? I Female Diseai HW »
Buectalt V.
Box ISO G.P.O.
gdsfgsd
Barry's Tricoplierous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all Im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hofinung and Co.
MUTUAL
FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—Eloo.ooo with power to increase to 11,000,000
BOts USES—2O per cent paid annually since 1873.
M
r F:i , 'v,
.■ M .
**£s> Head Office*. **£3*
First Fire Society established in me eoiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders baok
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’ ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability t
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
, Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
wal raa o & TTKCH. Manager
Road Offices —PIT r ' and KING STBBBTB.
PEIZE MEDALS.
UpIES
'o%jS
HSr**
IWfMWW-
BOSTON, 18 83.
VIENNA, 1873.
PH I LA., 187 A
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Bless.
A necessity in every
family, it blacks and
piishes Ladies’ and
Children's Boots,
tiroes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
is conceded to bs
“THE STANDARD."
C. UHAUTH AWAY & SONS,
n 231 & 233 Congress Street, Boston.
M\S«, U.3.A.
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &0.
The O.NLJ HOUSE IN SYDNEY
that makes a.Speciality of
Musical Instruments.
Violins, Guitars, BaDjos, Futes, Aooordions, Con-
certinas, and Strings for all Instruments.-
Musical Instruments ox all kinds Kepkirqd. i
POGONOWBKI’d
>of JCAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE, ;
505 Georjfe-atfieet, Sydney
. MIHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVESTOCK
X INSURANCE 80CIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... ... ... £lOO,OOO.
Head Offioe: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Esq-,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (ooverlng
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
kV
*<£££ /y
V V V >
y
•w
w>
H
s>
Messrs. S. HOFFNUFG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT'S P2SOSPHODYNE.
.The only Reliable for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Enerr - Siok Headache, Indigestion,
Femals Complaints, Premature Decline, and i. f>
marvellous n,edi ine for renovating impaired and
broken-down c mtkutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care ©r thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, hea l.k'lney. stomaoh, and intestines, with
a harmony, v .gour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, andH; n most powerful blood purider
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
Agents—Et.ljlOTt Duos.
C. B. BBODINI,
DURING his recent visit to Londos, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most oelebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firpis .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & 80N., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, Lpndon ; OHAB. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent Arm
BCSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c„ and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Gaorga.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
A.l
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, fro* with
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary oomplaints.
Fresh Food 6 Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables ...
Faotory
... SI Harbour-Street
.. Llverpool-street.
... Mlttagong.
. MEDICINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs snd Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOB NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, tberelore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
* NEVES MXVO
the temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and unqualified hands. By skill,
science, and
THE CASH
system, we able to command an extensive
patronage and supply everything of the best
quality at the lowest prlcep.
T. JONES & CO.. Dispensing Chemists,
53 M4RKET st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Sur-v Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
PJ
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney. y
Mere always In STOCK, for BALE
to the TRADE end WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINBB, BVTRRS. AHD SPIRITS
and general
V BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and BOV
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and OO.’B
Oognao.
J. T. OATEN'S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MiSLV <N and SONS’
Edinburg nPale Ale.
s
DU. THOM.
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Me'ioaJ Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 dally.
Dr Thomas Is the only medical man advertising
tn Australia who hsß psssed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of .the Koyal College of Physicians,
London, 18^4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, Lot.don, 1869.
The
Q UN^^lcUß£feß
ASTHMA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
HKL HAKuU ONLY BY /3C*
Thomas Ingham,*]


14 BOURSE STREET, 1
±HS MELBOURNE. f
THOS,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
nearly
POST
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, Sc-
— * *+ M
' ' ...
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever r dfatch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0,, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery
P'ATnir, T.TSTS THE?, OV APPLICATION.
QUINA LAROCHE.
p#
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION.
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At
and CfecffllitA
=«E*
A ASK YOTJR OKOCEB fob
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J * PET & s SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the bes E ale or porter.— Lancet.
::s!
m
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SinDianEY, Ivr.S.-W.
A REGULAR G RADUATE in all the branches -
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered bVy
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S. W., whose- 1
i life-long experience, practical method of treat--
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per- -
f. manent cures in all private cases, c h ron ic„
nervous, skin and special diseases
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising-
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office.- or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incor
venient to visit the city for treatment, mod*' --
can be sent by post everywhere, free from -cine
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; w l -*■ obser-
exists, it is frankly stated. Kspecia’ -iere doubt
Severe and Long-standing Cases .* attention to
Nervous Prostraf
Mental and Phv' .ion, Debility,
the result of Indisfr' - sical weakness,
producing some .etion, Excess, or Indulgence,
vousness, De>' of the following effects: —Ner-
Momory, P : ' ,dity, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Of Ferns’ .mples on the Face, Aversion to Society
AmbU’ .eg, Want of Pleasnre in Life, Want of
rv .ion, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
da. Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
“"i*S's i ?SS‘'iSs?^SF r
A Si,Tf^e by satches -a Eruptions
It is self-evident that a.phjrsieitfn,*' cure<l.
aymg particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in ~
remedieTof °an C ages.an§?cp®' T 1 over thecountry knowing this, frequently recommehd cases to
charges are ker>* low—’ 4«re ever y known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
sneedv and norfeef ies are us ®d- On account of the great number of cases applying, the
address P Ct ‘ mwer than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
e, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
DOCTOR. J„ O CONNELL, ~
52 Castlereagrti Street (ground floor), Sydney.
BUDGE REE!
BUDGE
Trade
•31
liw
Mark-
NO MOBS FEVEK. ,»{„
The BUDDEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful G^ rm r£ 1 jjjiis ftl
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instanw.
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all ohem (
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower
o:o.
Bobsrt butcher *
(Late William Long),
WT WINS AND SPIKIT MBECHANT,
684 GEOJRGB BTBBBT,
OPPOSITB THB TOWN HALL, BTDNIT
Country Orders reoelve prompt attention.
c«T0!
*hhood«R
. PREMATURE
now
Ml
K. A.
3T
BULL DOO ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained ror Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
ohoieest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE. whioh is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElGWlN and
HARBTON. Sole Agents
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNY ARD SQUARE,
A.HD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE, LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTE* BIPORS
©©
XnriQhtcd.
MOUSTACHE and WHISIEES.
Boyd’i Beard Elixir did this, and
I tciU do 1* neither bald head or
bare foe* force* heavy Mous-
tache in front 3 to 4 weeks and never {
fail*, *20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 t
• EFOttE AFTER
8 pkte. Ifo injury, eatUu applied, eertain In effect; Sockets U. M.
each, 3 for St. Sd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
Frink Dourlm, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W.’
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gteorge-street
(Beneath Paling's.)
THE highest point of perfect o
factureof r J
Gentlemen s V
having been reached by ° ux6 f^ e xi
prepared to supply our . ( ' ust ° 0 jaO gt
made of any material, out on
principle, s}& J
GUARANTEEING PERF B ° > f
COMFORT, yfi
and as we use materials of the gaC uf
durability and good value are a
A. A. DEBNEY *
13 HUNTER
SYDNEY
Manufactory
tv*
uaol C • .
R. C
FASHIONABLE
and MEN’S M*
Supplies Clothing which, for
price, cannot be surpas * v
Quality of Goods in Mer
■otifhnnt ea'B**.Wse**-
'kJ
Tour patronage
25 S
Without
nage repect-f u j. fl >
PITT S T 1 -3S
LATH ROWLANDS A LEWIS, * .
Manufacturer off all kinds off AEratad Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor off Vl^^
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
81 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. J
Calcutta Exhibition awarded die Only Go/o Medal for Crated and Mineral Waters! also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
