

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
. £frits' m
I
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
BEI UBLB
>I!S.
*'n«,
qc 4tl TY
«B 4
b? ALL the
CitiE 6ttB
StoISBU»
=i5?HOO»,
I
I
FLEMING’S
WA66ONS
and
Harness,
Specially Import©'
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAfc GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspect.
G>
OTS
w
s
15
n^uj l/
&
o^tlU^
Jhamwa y Land Said Rooms
bmlaqM' Cfyaudm*
Street "
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and KARUFACTUBEBS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickal-plafsd SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, ko.
WT Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing. Blacksmithlng
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “F AN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WAT3B-WASTI
PBEVEISi TEES, &0.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
SON ACCORD If ORES, 8 & S Haeigiiarla Plaaa, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application.
S\
\ L\
&
&
1
VxS*
s*
d
OOT '
.Shoe Ba zaar
252 a George £ t
Icile Peafe eunPls ffarc&uri- SYDPJS\?
ORaAMTS !
fob the
ft
SMITH
it
BRUCE ft MASSEY,
pirn, nun, Miac.
197 Pilt-st, Sydney.
h v ° t 'king and Baw-Mill Machinery.
> p * GREGORY and CO.,
I' * i . Are SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
St
A STOCK OP THEI.H CELEBRATED MACHINES.
FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
“tea : t 7 PITT STREET. Circular Quay, Sydney.
wKEE
spdo
I
life.
•MQxm y/.'
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
k&c
ColqtjllgK
TOBACCO
•OHS,
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
'«!>
Uim
ejatlapber*
6.r Kofc-er. Cuampiou, and lMißon'B Cut I’obaoooa.
Efara/y 2Lvloli. , txi.e:K%
W' '
24 O'Conaell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOBRAPHIG STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogue* po*t fre«.
THE LATEST WORKS Mid PUBLICATION ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTS for BAKEB’S DRY PLATE, tho most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies,
00 TS
DOTS
T. SFIU-lAWS & "0.,
IMPORTERS OP
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufactorere of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 Geoege-st., Sydney.
S 3 OH


ASK FOR COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
(\OE
PROOF
PN EX
NETTING!
BRAMD.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SIDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate PovMer.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OP THE FINEST QUALITY. 'WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty proneunce It the "most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
- , , ' . Luncheon, or Supper;” and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely ** all Cocoa,’ with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
. mixtures, a teasp lonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COcOAeTINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in aU climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
•ricbrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort In the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists , Grocers , &c., in Air-tight Tins , at Is. 6<J., 35., 6s. 6et., <fcc.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SGHWJSITZER & CO., 10 ADAK-6TREIT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
P. R. JLsARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and BTOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WpIBKJEB, BRANDIEB, PORTS, SHERRIEB, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above..
Weeding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Cas s of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bqjttle WOLFB’B SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY W NE
TOTAL-18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instanoe. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wins & Spirit Merchant 9l Importer ,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wholesale and Slagle Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.
IRONMONSERB,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i ■ m&m
O =s*»■
o
5
IRONMONGERS
o
H/
O.
%
REG?
■..‘a.
s?lr*£
.
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, • sbestos Fire-proof Pami,
f,lbo Carbon Lght.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking StovesLeoiifs Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BKADFORTV WASHING machines, &c., &C.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OP
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY EOR SHILLING SCARES.
•'-UK-*'
m THY *c
M OARTHY <fe GO.,
TOBACCO MERCHANTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaecos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
STAB & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T
T6©
«I 3 Hotel ia cenftally situated, bping close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre. Tramwnv
_ Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. c ' l - ~ J
i© most Cosafor«y?i» and Commodious Private Bar in the city,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & W
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G.
GENERAL IRONMONGERS ,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY lERCHW
Importer* or MACfiSig
BT2AM ENGINES, ENGINEERS* TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKIN«_» eM bNT»
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS* PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, GOAOBBUIW"""
MATERIALS. SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &0.
i
tS&
BR
wm
fm
s
..
K PIAT», »HBWl\ kd« HOOP TB.OTS ttiLVANiaaD OOHRDttATaD ntvS VX.AIN, IfiOK
tt'H.'KKX asua. 22BSOTrtTSPL.A.'irBB Pi© IB.ON ana U*£tl) ; OXILfi, PilHiS, mad
TSSrOSMVir KKB, WfcNUVtAO 'WOO’LPAOKfi, GYi«A«.ItSO BDVVUSS ; umx,»**juv YU.OJS-
KV>\,UU> H aIKOWw, 1-uKXauuK, ,»114 68Ml-TVXTtD 88QTN8S, VMCIlO^lj
h“ tOST Ml. BO\ui«. BXBIIV u« VOMVB, 1.A.1H.85. V1A«1N», BHAVIWO,
, MiA o»t>\.TOO M ACHTOSB WV».jvM HA*AM*tt«, BSaiSBIBS’ UIiABC. IttUKIIUY .
l-i:r«SL O.ULXU. BaABTlsSt t»CXOK»lU»»B- fc>.
for PARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
DING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULT ORAL IMPLEMENTS * qu
Sole Agents
ENGINES; READING
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’B Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
|V* Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on appn c9T ' l ° r ‘
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
Co‘
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
qQ*'
SmSFEHTi
»®acbobij*so b
******
London Ole* •
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
CUAULOTTK-I'LA<JE AND GfiOBGE-STBEBT.
K. HAIKEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. : —•
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
" Scotch Whiskies is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, Cd. per bottle. All
first-class Goods, One trial will prove the fsict. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-strect and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
1 '
fg
\Ct
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
C O CO A
//<
s^^
■Mir.a
MACHINE^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
mm-
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
nw/FST
£ <
..C
0
# S '
LOCOMOTIVES, TUG 8
ESTIMATED ? 01i
CO *
m
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
lb°
jvl e
sTP
KIH»
22
FREE
f £
PU.BSC
LIFE,” for the sp c edy f : » oC y, ft
Lost Manhood, »**V? n * 6 t
this book will be sent P
penny stamps.
UMBRELLAS
BfcGqVSREK
s eO*y
3 •
tTJI* I®*' 1 ®*'
f)Ut e< *’


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 171-New Verier.
HATUKDA Y. AUGUS I 1 21, 1886.
Frici-ML
" Big Plies.”
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 21, 1886.
An old philosopher one© said that laws are
like spiders’ webs: they catch little flies but
big flies break through them. Tha deci-
sion of the New South Wales Full Court in
the Coo nan case would seem to bear out tne
truth of the proverb Whatever view the
legal profession may take of the Court’s deci-
sion, their Honors’ finding mustgive general
dissatisfaction to a wondering lay puolio. As
things are at present constituted members
of what with a flue and tel ing oynicism is
termed the “ lower ” branoh of an out-
rageously privileged guild are in a position
to extensively bleed their victims —we
mean clients—while keeping well within
the letter and even the practice ot
the law, and without descending to what is
conventionally regarded as actual dis-
honesty. But everyone knows that many
practitioners do pass this saored Rubicon,
and through their knowledge of legal pro-
cedure and technicality, combined with that
astuteness for whioh the profession has been
ever famous, are (unhappily for the public)
in the great majority of instances able to
evade detection and baffle justice.
♦ * *
Under such conditions it is only reason-
able to expeot that when a ease of deliberate
fraud is clearly sheeted home to one of the
blaok sheep—we had almost said wolves—
of the legal profession, the punishment
meted out by those iu whose hands the
oountry places the administration of justioe,
and to whom it has a right to look
for its purification, should be of suffi-
cient gravity to strike terror to the
hearts of like evil-doers, and that it
should be far more severe than in cases of
ordinary fraud or robbery, where the thief
is unprotected by a hedge of privileges, and
the means of frustration or detection are
comparatively easy. But what do we had ?
A leading solioitor is accused of haviDg ob-
tained money from his client under pretence
of having paid it to counsel for an opinion.
It is proved that he obtained the money
in person from this client and that he did
not get the opinion or pay counsel for it. If
this does not constitute “false pretences”
we would greatly like to know what does.
Last week a miserable butcher’s assistant
was sentenced by Judge Docker to the
monstrous punishment of ten years' penal
servitude for pocketing some small sums of
money paid him for his master. Yet these
are not parallel cases, inasmuch as the degree
of guilt and moral turpitude is ten times
greater in the case of the prosperous lawyer
and member of Parliament than in that of
the poor butcher's clerk. But then the
latter is only a “ little fly,” and therefore
the big punishment.
9 4 9
This is not all, nor is it even the worst.
Mr. Coosan, to back up his—well, hi 3 little
“monetary irregularity,” if he did not
actually perjure himself, went so close to it
that it would take a keen sophist to tell the
difference. He was handed the bill of costs
containing the fraudulent item. He looked at
it aud swore that it had been made out by a
clerk who had left his service, and that the
Challenged item was taken from an entry in
his book, wnereas he has since admitted that
the document is in his own handwriting,
that it was made out by himself, and that no
such entry appears in any of his books. All
this the Chief Justieeof New South Wales
oaUs “ most improper conduct ”1! I and sen-
tences the distinguished oulprit, not to ten
years’ penal servitude—oh, no, Lawyer
Uoonan is a “ big fly ’’—not even to bestruok
off the rolls—but, forsooth, to be suspended
from practising his profession for six months
—just long enough to allow the ingenuous
Coonan to take a trip to England and be
presented to the Prince of Wales along with
other “ representative Australians.”
i * * *
Great as must be the surprise at the absurd
inadequacy of the sentenoe passed by the
Judges, it is as nothing compared with the
wonderful logio by whioh the sentence was
arrived at. When delivering the deoision
of the Court, Chief Justioe Martin said
“ If we could see that he made this oharge with
the view simply to obtain the money we should
have allowed the matter to go to another tribunal,
or we should strike him off the rolls; but we do
not propose to take either of these oourses. for it
seems to be exceedingly likely that having made
SARA BERNHARDT.
the statement about having taken counsel’s ad-
vice he put these Items in his bill of costs for the
purpose of cloaking his nesrlect to file the proper
pleas and to bear out what he had told his client.”
Aooording, then, to the highest judicial
tribunal in the happy oolony of New Soutn
Wales, the fact of a robbery haviag been
committed to bear out a lie is an extenuat-
ing circuinstanoe and of sufficient merit to
prevent the matter from going to “ another
tribunal,” or, in other words, to save the
guilty party the unpleasantness of a life-long
penalty. This will strike the lay mind
as something quite new and worth remem-
bering. We should advise the nextsporting
bank-teller who is compelled to face the
spikes at the Central Criminal Court for
having a deficiency in his cash to plead that
• ving told his friends he was a heavy win-
ner at the last raoe meeting it was neoessary
he should have the money “to bear out
what he had told them or we may have
an intelligent burglar asking to be excused
from his five years of “ skilly ” on the
ground that having told his pal he had
craoked that little orib, he was oompelled to
do it “ to bear out what he had told him.”
* * 9
The aotion of the Full Court in finding
Coon an guilty, and still allowing his name
to remain on the roils, amounts to this: that
a man who, to cover his own culpable
neglect, tells his client that he aeted on the
advioe of an eminent oounsel and oharges
for that counsel's opinion without going to
the trouble of obtaining it, and finally swears
in court that a bill of oosts in his own hand-
writing was drawn by another man, is a fit
and proper person to practise as a Solioitor
of the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
There is, of course, one possible exouse for
the lenity of their Honor* in this oase, but
it is not flattering to the profession* viz.,
that they recognised in Mr. Coonan’b aotion
the “custom of the trade.” If this be so,
we fear there was dire necessity for the Aot
of Parliament whioh “made solicitors gen-
tlemen,” and that there is now equal urgenoy
for another aot to wipe the guild off the
face of the earth.
The Imperial Federation Lie.
When Lord Tennyson, in hia official capacity as
poetic danolng skeleton to the Royal Family,
wrote his famous ode on the opening of the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, he gave the cause
of Imperial Federation a lift for which Its advo-
cates have every reason to be thankful. The
poet and the politician both work on the same
theory—that Federation will weld all the subjects
of the British Crown into one invincible nation,
and they both avail themselves of a poetic lioense
—a euphonious term for a poetic lie—in placing
this view of the case before their converts. Un*
fortunately, however, a little reason and oom
mon-sense show clearly that federation mus
either remain woefully incomplete or must
utterly overthrow the Anglo Saxon supremacy
over one-seventh of the habitable globe. The pic-
ture placed before us is that of a Federal Parlia-
ment reoresenting and governing a population of
about 310,000,000 souls, but it is commonly for-
gotten that of this number nearly 260,000,000 are
Asiatics who are not yet allowed even to
govern themselves. If the native races of
India be excluded from the league the
supreme Legislature will only represent one-
sixth of the Empire at the utmost; if they are
admitted they will vote down all the rest of the
mongrel federated nation and rule Britain, Canada
and Australia by force of numbers. As it happens,
however, they are but little inclined to submit to
the gross injustice of exclusion. The great silent
movement in favour of Constitutional Govern-
ment is still progressing and gaining strength
amoDg the Hindoo tribes; sooner or later a native
Parliament must be granted, and that body will
ultimately demand to be represented in the
Federal Council, should such an institution ev6»
by any evil fortune be created. The Oriental raoes
have long since discovered that “ Jan BOOL ” is
not a potent Feringhee deity as they once sup-
posed, but a peaceful, tow-headed oitizen, whose
claims to rule over them are based chiefly on
treachery, lying, and good luck, and they are not
inclined to submit to his domination so peacefully
as of old. It is now nearly 140 years sinoe the first
British conqueror proceeded to hang up his Aryan
hat in the tents of Shem, and though the welcome
of Shem himself was warm rather than courteous,
things have gone well with the conquerors ever
since. But now a confusion of tongues worse
than that heard of old in the plains of Shinatt
is heard demanding Constitutional Government
and should it be refused trouble may arise. The
establishment of a Federal Council from which he
is excluded will mean to the Hindoo that, instead
of being oppressed by Britain aione, be will be
weighed down by-all the British Empire outside of
India. Either the dominant race must face the
chance of an insurrection—not merely on the part
of the army as before, but a rising of the whole
nation—or else they must be content to see the
Hon. Shikkamy Shaster, of Madras, or SnoitAßi
Bhoppurji, from some ten-syllable jungle town-
ship, running the whole Imperial machine in Lon-
don, with a yellow-dog coloured Cabinet and a
brown Semitic majority at his back. And if there
is any meaning whatever in the talk about the
" Federation of the Empire,” this is what the
disciples of the new order of things already look
forward to. Everyone has heard of the coming
millennium when 300,000,C00 souls are to be joined in
one league, and it is impossible to suppose
that the men who rave of this deliber-
ately mean all the while to leave 260,000,000
of these out; but not one federal apostle
has yet had the honesty to point out that
a white populatiou of 40,000,000 cannot rule almost
seven times their number of Asiatics by their
votes alone. The Hong-Kong Chinaman, the Cape
Hottentot, and the civilised portion of the
Canadian Indians must also be represented on the
same basis, and unless federation is a lie and a de-
lusion a time may come when “ Spotted Tail ”
from the Saskatchewan will form a Ministry in
England, and Mr. Gladstone will go into the
division lobby along with a man who smokes
opium and plays fan-tan in the Commons’ card-
room, and with another who bangs an assegai
against a bull-hide shield by way of applause in
an exciting debate. In these happy days of the
future t e British representatives may congratu-
late themseives when they succeed in carrying a
resolution by coalescing «ath discontented Mos-
lems and Malays, African K.C M.G. s, and Obi men
from Barbadoes and Jamaica, and a fierce discus-
sion in toe supreme legislature of the
Empire will be interspersed with strange
federal oaths in Tamil and Gujarati dia-
lects, mixed with recriminations from Chung
Fat, the ennobled Chinese washerman from
the Far East. And on the other hand, if none of
these things are to come to pass, toe Empire will
not be federated after all, the boosted union of
300,000,000 British subjects will vanlsn Into thin air,
and the i< ague of brotherhood will be merely a
combination of the dominant race, to enable them
the more effectually to keep in subjection an
enormous population, which is already demanding
to be freed from its servitude. There are only
two alternatives to this great question—either
federation is a stupendous lie, or It involves tho
total ruin of Anglo-Saxon supremacy in the
British dominions.


PLAIN ENGLISH
“The Chinese Mnst Go.”
The Bulletin indictment of the Chinese appears
in this week’s issue. From that account it will be
gathered that Mongolian immigrants are a
heterogenous element in the population of Aus-
tralia. For the purposes of money-making, or im-
morality, they come into contact with Australians,
but in all other respects they are isolated units,
having no cohesion save to members of their own
raoe. They constitute an autonomous band inde-
pendent of Australian law, as they are regardless
of Australian oustom. “ Manners they have none,
and their habits are disgusting.” Their trade, cus-
toms, and practices are repugnant to local law, yet
the law is powerless to prevent what it clearly
forbids. The#>ainaman has been weighed in the
balanoe and found very much wanting When he
is simply vicious, his vice is destructive; when
criminal, a menace to the State; and when indus-
trious, he threatens revolution of the social
system. The majority of Chinese coming to Aus-
tralia are simply and literally slaves, acting under
oontrol of the central authority. When the Mongol*
therefore, competes in the labour market by
cabbage-growing, furniture-making, or what
not, the result of his industry is to degrade
Australian labour by bringing it down to the
level of slavery. Even when not a slave, the labour
of the Chinaman is a curse to the State generally,
for he, knowing nothing of the comforts of civili-
sation, is willing to give his toil for the mere prioe
of existence-an existence shorn of all graces as of
all usefulness to the community. Give a Chinese
labourer a three-roomed house to himself, and a
wife to himself, and he will be found unable to
maintain the one or support the other by any
honest labour. In Sydney there are some Chinese,
other than the proprietors of stores—stores often
tun by the slave-labour of their own countrymen—
Who do support a wife and family in comfort, if not
to luxury. One estimable gentleman of this class is
known to most of the police as a professional
burglar: he does not pretend to any other trade,
but manages this one so deftly that he has never
yet been convicted, although following this same
industry for years. One or two others are equally
Well-known smugglers: they do nothing else, yet
they are seldom caught, and when they are the
fine is merely a charge on subsequent successful
operations. Such men, and the storekeepers and
gamblers, are the only ones who can spend any-
thing on their homes, and even the latter class, the
merchants, are, taken all round, a curse to the con-
tinent, for no reasonable citizen wishes to see shop-
men enslaved. There would be leas danger of evil
from the existence of Chinese in our midst if people
were aware of the mode of life which obtains
With these aliens. But purcnasers of their
and other wares are not, or else they probably
Would not buy as they now do, The extension of
Mongol power and Mongol vice is merely a ques-
tion of time under present conditions. Every
day the octopus remains only adds to the
difficulty of his final ejection. It has
been so in America ; ’Frisco, with her
oolony of 70,000 Chinese has at lest decided that
absolute expulsion is the only remedy. “The
Chinese must go!” is her motto, and that decision
must be adopted by Australia. The Alien Act
must be at once repealed to prevent the Chinese
from acquiring freeholds: known gamblers, burg-
lars, smugglers, and other criminals must be made
to show whether they have lawful means of sup-
port; the European girls must be torn from the
grasp of their present debasers; a law must be
passed to prevent men from paoking together, like
sardines, in th ir dwelling houses; and if these
things are done, though Chinamen will not be
absolutely ejected from Australia, they will at
least find it not worth while to remain. “ The
Chinese must go I ” Let this once be resolved, and
the means of their expulsion will easily be found.
-
Soft Stuff.
Thomas’ Anglioan Church at North Shore,
Bydney, is one of the finest specimens of Gothic
architecture in the oolony, and is not yet paid for.
Desperate efforts have been made to build and to
pay for St. Thomas’. Ye Olde Hnglishe Fayre of
four years ago was ohiefly in the interest of St.
Thomas’. The dames and damsels of the show at
that time, it will be remembered, earned a noto-
riety almost as enviable as that of the most for-
' war d personages of the Primrose League, and
since, St. THOMAS’ hat, variously bedizened,
has been a very familiar object to ail chari-
tably disposed. Still the debt hangs, and awk-
wardly—the contractor has a claim on the fabric,
and we are told by St. Thomas’ Kalendar that
some effort must be made to clear that claim.
The sheep and the lambs of St. Thomas’, however,
do not excel in making financial effort. It is esti-
mated that if the week be so fine as to fairly briDg
in spring with next Sunday there will be £lO,OOO
worth of new millinery in the pews of the church,
and it is known that there will also be about 50s
worth of silver coin on the plate. The shepherd
of Bt. Thomas’ can’t use the shears worth a cent,
or otherwise there is some mange of meanness or
constitutional disability to give freely in the
flock. What does he feed them with ? Here is a
quotation from his Kalendar, a sort of monthly
pastoral:—
“Readers of the Kalendar will no doubt be
thankful to have had satisfactorily explained in
the last issue the phenomenal rains whioh have
fallen since the 15th of July. Do they prove be-
yond question that the good St. Swithin has well
earned his claim to be associated with the weathe r
at this season ? It is really delightful to find this
is just as true in the New World as in the Old. It
is almost like the discovery of another link of
union between the Mother Country and her
daughter.'
Is that likely to produce wool ? How do the hard-
headed, practical men who, with mdes and dolts,
sit in the pews and stick to the o urch, stomach
and digest such stuff as that ? Sr. Swithin—the
old fellow who used to ohristeD the apples for
’English schoolboys—is somehow, m the mind of
the Kalendar editor, associated with the open
windows of heaven, and the oraoked crust of Aus-
tralia drinking its fill and putting on its amazing
food orop. The good St. Swithin is asso-
ciated with it. So is the good parson, doubt-
less. And in about an equal degree. But
where is the “practical cammonsense bishop ?”
Can’t he afford time to run up by cable tram to this
high church and say, “Fancy Fayre I can abide,
and to daughters of Moab I do not objeot, and
your Saint’s hat at every corner may be tolerated,
but if you want 8t Swithun. aad in this fashion,
I must objeot ?” Is it not fittingly called " Boft
Stuff,” this doctrine of the Kalendar ? Is it pos-
sible to imagine it as set forth earnestly by a
reasonable man to reasonable men ? St. Bwithin
is associated with the rain, yes, and doubtless if
some poor wretch of a woman of the parish, with
husband in gaol and children sick, should beg at
the door of the sanotuary, another saint would be
recommended to associate himself with her (any
saint but Balnt Sovereign), but why isn’t the
blessed St. Thomas stirred up to associate himself
with the church debt? Thomas always was slow
since his name was Didymus. Be won’t move till
the bailiffs are in, and even the “ daughters of
Moab” fail to put them out.
4
Where are the Rest ?
“ If they are going to suspend Coonan, they might
as well suspend us all,” said an indignant little
lawyer in Sydney last week, and he was just
about right. The public will blame Mr. Coonan
because he sinned, the legal profession will hate
him beoause he allowed himself to be found out.
Sympathy would be wasted on Mr. Coonan. 'We
believe he richly earned every ounce of the
punishment meted out to him. It is right that he
should suffer; the only matter for regret is that he
should suffer alone. To suppose that he is the
only sinner is absurd, and the attitude of some of
his brother lawyers who hold up one hand in
pious horror, is, to say the least of it, hypocritical
in the extreme. We say hold up one hand, for a
man cannot hold up both while one is in a client’s
pocket. Coonan, attorney and member of Par-
liament, is punished beoause he charged a client
for services never performed, but he has enough
companions in suoh conduct to All the Court from
which he has been temporarily excluded. Not one
bill of costs in ten escapes deductions in taxation;
instances have been known wherein taxed costs
have been less than 50 per cent, of the original
total; items are frequently reduced to 10 per cent,
of their original amount, and often enough dis-
allowed altogether. In theße cases the lawyers are
either udjustly deprived of their lawful remunera-
tion, or else they have put in suoh items on the
“ off-chance ” of getting them paid, and the chance
has not come off. And, as the lawyers seem to
flourish in spite of these huge reductions, it may
be assumed that selling off their forensic goods at
less than the alleged cost price is really very good
business. Nor are matters much better in the
“nobler” branch of the profession. If there is
any barrister who has not taken money for ser-
vices he did not perform the probability is that he
bag a very small practice indeed. Been of the
Judges who eat in judgment on the erring Coonan
there may even have been one or two wno had
accepted briefs, pocketed fat fees, and then left
some unskilful junior to conduct the case as
best he could. These things are done every term
by some of the leading barristers, yet the censors
of the profession do not search for the extenu-
ating falsehood, which, in the opinion of Chief
Justice Martin, appears to be a mitigation of suoh
offence, and the member of the “nobler ” branch
of the profession is not even called upon to explain
his financial eccentricity. " Engaged in another
court, your Honor,” is deemed complete condon-
ation of the act of calmly pocketing a client’s
money, and leaving that client defenceless, to be
gobbled up by the legal wolves of the other side.
The insolvent who “fraudulently” favours one
creditor at the expense of another is sent to gaol;
the barrister who fraudulently prefers one client
to another grows sleek and fat, and flourishes like
a green bay tree in the sunlight of judicial smiles.
The New South Wales Judges may, in their barris-
terial days, have be n without sin, and they may,
therefore, now be able to cast the first stone at
Mr Coonan, but there are very few others of his
brother practitioners who can justly join in his
condemnation. Coonan has been punished, but
where are the rest of them ?
*
The Grime of Good Character.
Judge Docker has descended to explanation. He
asserts that under the New South Wales Criminal
Law he is a mere machine for registering sentences
which the people have imposed. This is an initial
mistake. The people did not draw up the New
South Wales Criminal Code. Its authors are men
who have compiled it in the light of the executive
savagery which shed a lurid glow over young Aus-
tralia. And it is a lawyer-made code. No lawyer can
free himself from the manacles of his profession;
it is not the good of society which he regards eo
much as the traditions of a profession that looks
upon all accused persons as felons, and regards
every criminal as a hopeless ruffian. But even
under a Stephenesque code. Judge Docker has
a large amount of latitude. In Berner’s case,
noticed last week, Judge Docker does not deny
that he had the power to award a three-
year penalty if extenuating circumstances
had been found. The jury discovered such cir-
cumstances, for they recommended mercy,
but the full penalty was given in spite
of Berner’s previous and unimpeachable re-
oord. The secret of this judicial severity is
found in Judge Docker’s address in the case of
Alger Bunyard, convicted last week of having
embezzled various Bmall sums from his employer.
Previous prosecution of tbe same prisoner before
J udge Dowling had resulted in a verdict of “ not
guilty,” the evidence being insufficient to convict
upon. But in this instance the jury did convict,
»nd Judge Docker, sum nearing evidence of pre-
vious good cnaracier, said “ue would remark, nee
for all, that ia hw opinion, there were cases where
previous good character was an aggravation of
the offence—such cas sas the present.’ From this
we naturally conclude that if Bunyard had mur-
dered several of his female relatives, embezzied
from two or three banks, and filled in nia youtafui
days with a little bushranging and burglary, his
previous bad character ryould have mitigated his
offence. With muoa humiti y we would like to
a s k this Judge how much i f Bunyard s sentence
was awarded for this defalcation, and how much
for thr previous good character which aggravated
the crime? It. simply comes to this: that the
better the previous record of an embezzler is the]
less likely he is to get a reduced sentence. Which i
is very good news indeed for habitual criminals,
CORRESPONDENCE
I Corretpondentt mho awe neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to heme their com-
munication! noticed. l
“ A. 8.” (Moubray): Thanks for the out-
tings which, though “ ancient,” as you say, are as
uninteresting as many other ancient things....
"Gravity”!* Wooloomln): Your idea, unfortunately,
suggests no picture. Shall be glad to help you in
any other way “T. 8.” (Launceston): Thanks.
....“J.J.”: Thanks. Politeness, however, isn’t
everything in this world. Man is like a lot of
other things which, the more polished they are,
the more slippery they become “Hater of
Snobs”: Much obliged “Lunatic”: Thanks. It
is true that we don’t enquire concerning the
moral character of all those who write for The
Bulletin. For one thing, we haven’t time;
another reason is that if we gave too much en-
couragement to writers producing certificates of
character signed by the clergy, the paper would
“go bung,” and we’d have our humble Waterbury
watch stolen too of ten.... “J. Thornley” (Bris-
bane): One scientist has described the animal as
“a fat beast without any brains,” but that might
lead to confusion between a hog and a member of
Parliament. Our own impression is, however, that
a man who has got his three sons into Government
offices and then stumps the country with a view to
getting a billet for the baby as soon as it grows up,
about fills the bill—all except the bacon.. .“Jos.
Tatt” (Balmain): It is always very difficult to
translate an English name into any Oriental lan-
guage. Neild’s name in Arabic, as far as we can
make out, would be E; Jawbone Abdulgizzardbosh,
or bosh to that effect. This, of course, is only
a free translation. To render it verbatim, would
break an Arab’s teeth, and he would be compelled
to gum Arabic for the rest of his 1ife.....
“ W.G.”: He may be technically qualified, but we
don’t advise you to consult him—“Subscriber’*
(Newcastle): (1.) We don’t know where she now
lives. (2.) The “ doctor” named and the individual
you mention, referred to in our narrative, are
identical....“ Lyra”: You have surely spelt the
name wrongly. Douglas Sladen, like you, wrote
things he called verses, but he has gone to Eng-
land. Why don’t you go there too ?....“ Inves-
tor.” We know nothing of the land you mention,
but habitually cherish a nasty suspicion concern-
ing subdivisions largely advertised in the country
oapers....“ Justitia” : It is a remarked ciroum-
itaooe that sons-ln-law of N.S W. judges are
always singularly clever fellows, and wonderfully
successful in at least the legal profession. We
suppose it is that a judge will not let his female
relatives marry lawyers or barristers unless the
•atter are forensic geniuses. Sometimes the genius
has been observed to lean in the direction of em-
bezzlement “Progress (Orange): Will deal
with your letter at first opportunity....“ Sub-
scriber” (Richmond, Yic): Will at an early date
print your letter and give information asked
for ...“Spec.”: The point of your story seems
somehow to have been left out. Next time you
write, kindly send along the point and leave out
the story “A Contributor” (Tumut): The
chances are that Gundagal and Tumut will both
be the richer for the railway. The former hole—
we mean town—cannot remain a terminus for
ever. . .“0.J.T.” (Bcmbata): Our opinion is that
half the “blow” about the alleged Kimberley
goldfield in the daily papers consists of local store-
keepers’ mendacities; the balance is made up of
lies in the interests of steamship companies and
of runholders who want a market for their stock.
Stay where you are....“ Coke ’’(Redfern): The
suspension of Mr. Coonan from the practice of
hisj profession does not necessarily involve his
expulsion from the N.S. W. Assembly. A majority
c uld certainly expel him, but they have equal
power to expel anyone else. Toe House might
even effeot th 9 expulsion of the saints who have
oceans of sanctity but can’t get their certificates
trom the Court of Insolvency....“ J.R.W.”: No-
aody can chaff Parkes so effectively as Mr.
Dailey. Sir Patrick Jennings’ speech at Dubbo,
which bore evidences of having been inspired by
the Right Hon. Plain Bill, was so neat and so
telling that it quite “ narked ” the D.T
“Reader” (Charlestown): If Miss Edith O'Gorman
really said, as reported, that “ the Sisters of Charity
were not the doers of the good deeds ascribed to
them,” she deliberately said what she knew, or
ought to have known, to be utterly untrue. Any-
one who wants to know what the Sisters of Charity
(whether R.C. or Protestant) are, has only to
enquire from the colonel of any regiment, the
captain of any man-of-war, the superintendent of
any hospital, or the governor of any gaol. It no
doubt pays Miss Edith O’Gorman very well to dis-
credit the Bisters of Mercy, who are the best and
bravest of women, and are none the worse for the
fact that they don’t perambulate the country
raking in gold for their own purses and sowing
the seeds of sectarian bitterness. The matter of
Miss Edith O’Gorman’s lectures is, we have heard,
free from any gross indecency, but we have no
hesitation in saying that Miss O’Gorman would
have very scanty audiences indeed but for the ex-
pectation entertained by those who pay to
dear her, of interesting “revelations.”...,..
' Quipolly ”: Time enough after defendants’ trial.
... “A Lover of Fair Piay ’’: We quite agree with
ail you say -but we'll take no risk n such matters
until the libBl law is altered. Truth is in N.S W.
no sufficient defence in an action for libel, and if
we did as you propose then it would be said in
court (as was said in the Clontarf ca e) >h*t we
published for an unworthy motive i.e., for merely
“sensational” purposes—a narrative concerning
the early life of a man who, although he once parti-
cipated in an infamy, had since shewn himself cap-
able of better things, and had now been permitted
by society to attain a good position. Our object in
publishing the narrative was to enable the public
to form a correct opinion as to the expediency of
releasing a notorious orimlaal...." James Fahey”:
As we haven’t the faintest idea who Is running the
sweep mentioned, we oan express no opinion....
“Junius”; Thanhs; hope you aren't Algernon—
“P. B. Way” (Palmer River): Thanks; the solu-
tion appeared in The Bulletin some weeks ago.
....“T. 8.” (Winton, Q): We’ll publish it-to
oblige you; but we’ll publish something else at
the same time....“ Rai lwa y”: Thanks....“Con-
stitutionalist”; The Act 18 and 19 Vic. deolares
that “Any person who shall, directly or indirectly,
himself or by any person whatsover In trust for
him, or for his use or benefit, undertake, execute,
hold, or enjoy, In the whole or in part, any con-
tract or agreement for or on account of the public
service,” and who continues to sit thereafter, shall
be liable to a penalty of £5OO, to be recovered by
any person who chooses to Bue in the Supreme
Court for it. If the proveable faots are as you say,
someone has a good chanoe of acquiring £500....
“Unit”; Your point is well taken. If land were
nationalised and all the State revenue derived
therefrom, there would be no need for levying
duties with a view both to protection and revenue.
But while taxes are levied on the producers, thus
increasing the cost of production, it is the maddest
of folly to admit pauper-made goods to come in
free while our own labourers stand idle—“L.
Guy”: Excellent. Splendid idea. So original, too.
....“J.H.” (Lake Bathurst) ; Question too indefi-
nite “R. Leeming”; Will probably use in an
altered form "G.P.”: We are not certain
as to the power to which you refer
“Cornstalk”; We have mentioned the matter,
and will do so again.. .“J.P.8.”; Will look at
them for next week “S.E.A.”: Have been ob-
liged to postpone consideration. Will look over
next week....“Gonzago”: Might suit the re-
ligious papers “E. Golding” (Sydney); The
only thing that would surprise us would be if
your C.Y.M. friends paid at all. If you should
take the position, and the magnificent 30s. turns up
at the end of the quarter, please let us know, and
we will publish it "Sunny”; Three drunken
bankers and an inebriated doctor are too oommon
to be worth mention “C.W.R. (Tungamah):
Too long. We can’t afford to print six pages of
Galileo and George Washington, and Latin and
Italian, and Joshua and Bunker Hill, for the sake
of 20 lines of Imperial Federation and Ismail
Pasha at the end....”Pardo”: Lord Carington’s
now historic phrase, “ As for your riding, gentle-
men, it is enough to Bay you are Australians,”
may be Interpreted in 19 ways. The smashed-foot-
baller’s friend possibly meant it for a compliment,
“S. Spencer ”: Coxswains of Oxford and Cam-
bridge Eights are young men. We are sending
home for certificates of birth of the last pair....
“Jabez”: It’s quite oertain that whether or not
’* Plain Bill ” was the author of the Dubbo oration
Sir Patrick Jennings didn’t write it. For three
reasons: firstly, because there was Greek in it;
secondly, because there was Latin in it; and,
thirdly, because there was English in it....“J.5.”
(Blayney): Next week....” W.R.” (Murrumburrah):
If you are jealous, “go” for him; don't ask us to
libel anybody " T.R.M.’”: Next week.
NOTICE.
Thb Rates of Subscription to " The BuiiLßTiN’i
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director*
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly consider suggestions for
illustrations, and will oarefully read, and acknow-
ledge in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political,
social, or other articles, verse, short tales or
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to whioh
they invite attention.
The Bulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to MS., &0., forwarded. But the
Editor will, as a matter of oourtesy, send back all
unsuitable contributions whioh are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
stamped envelope.
The Bulletin will be glad to publish properly-
authentieated social items.
A Bushman’s Troubles.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
’Tis the voice of the ’possum, his tones sweet’and
low
Assure me he means for my damper to go.
Hark 1 he’s close to the fire -he searches the pot,
Ha, ha! hear him swear (in pure ’possum), “d—d
hot I”
Now, he upsets the plates, in a rummage for
crumbs—
He has finished; by Jove, here my enemy comes I
tie frisks round the tent. Now, along the ridge-
pole
He is trying in vain to discover a bole-
ro eager is he to partake of my store
That be musters up courage end comes to the
door.
There he sits, while I lie, vaißly trying to stamp
On my brain, by the aid of a fl »rin«r slush-lamp,
Bome grains of the wisdom and humour within
The pages that make uo the week's Bulletin,
Now he cautiously creeps, and bright visions of
loot
Prevent him observing my iron-heel d boot.
It is po|«ed. Now, I tbm& I have focussed him
straight—
Ph w! bang! but my tent lifting foe doesn’t
wait,
For I hear him above, on the limb of a tree,
And those angry remarks are meant dearly for
me,
And that musical sound, ’twixt a growl and a hiss,
Conveys to me plainly—he laughs at my miss.
“FRED."


Political
Points
Ninian Melville, M.L.A., is pretty often
greeted at politioal meetings with “ How about
that £25 ?”
Vanity Fair predicts that Parnell’s ex-
tinction will follow on Gladstone’s. Perhaps, but
Gladstone is not yet extinct.
“ Mr. Chamberlain,” says Lord Wolverton,
"is worse than Judas Iscariot in that he has be-
trayed not his master but his Maker.”
Dan. O’Connor, Im Pay for West Sydney,
isgoing to proteot native Industries. That’s good.
But who Is going to protect Dan. O’Connor ?
The Sydney Globe politely describes the
S.M Herald as "the venal paper which stands
with one arm around the neck of the Importer,
and the other affectionately embracing the land-
grabber.”
Mr. J. P. Abbott, M.L.A., who is looked
upon as tbe coming leader of the N.S.W, Protec-
tionist party, will make his debut before a Protec-
tionist audience by taking the cnair on Friday
night, August 30, at the lecture to be given In
Sydney Protestant Hall by Mr. L. F Heydon,
M. on " The Progress of Protection In
N.
One Richard Pigott, erstwhile editor of
the Flag oe Ireland, an extreme Dublin
Nationalist organ, is said to have concocted the
bogus Fenian manifesto published in the Times
on the eve of the late British general election.
Pigott figured several years ago (with Lady
Florence Dixie) in the concoction of several
"Fenian outrage ” yarns.
Messrs. Abigail and Hawthorne, Ms.L.A.,
shining lights of Orangemen and lemonade, have
visited Miffing, and been entertained at Toohey’s
Hotel, but the report doesn’t say what thoy drank
on the licensed premises. We are also told tb«t
" both gentlemen visited the public school and
addressed the pupils.” We hope that little Abigail
didn’t address the pupils on the rules of orthogra-
phy or syntax.
This most hopeful and satisfactory para-
frapb, clipped from that High-Torv organ, Vanity
air, tells its own story:-" A fashion has sprung
up of late years, and a very bad one, too, amongst
members of society, of not unoovering In public
plaoes when ‘ God Save the Queen’ is being played.
Some years ago any man dressed like a gentleman
who did not take off his hat when the National
Anthem was being played, stood a very good
ehanceof having the said hat forcibly removed;
but now all manliness seems to have left the
country.” If this means anything, it means tbat
we have the authority of a leading Conservative
paper for stating that in England now-a-days very
few people grovel at the name of Her Most, &e.
(much hogwasb here unavoidably omirted) save a
few rich old parties now In their second childhood.
An absurd Radioal Chelsea olergyman
writes a ridioulous and disloyal letter to the Lon-
don Times. He oomplains that he arranged for
a confirmation servioe whieh was to have been
bossed by the Bishop of London. At the time
appointed, the rows of elegantly-arrayed candi-
dates were there, so were all other sacerdotal
and ecclesiastical fixings appurtenant to such
ceremonies, but a comprehensive and interesting
vaoahcy alone represented the place whioh should
have been occupied by the Bisuop. The whole
orowd—clergymen, choir, and congregation—
waited for some hours for the outpouring of the
Episcopal blessing, but they waited in vain, for
my lord of London had gone to attend the Prince
of Wales on a bridge-blessing expedition. Upon
these facts the curate takes upon himself to
seditiously satirise the Bishop.
There is a considerable row in Queensland
over Sir Bawmill Griffiths’ last election dodge. Ao-
oordlog to his latest scheme, every eleotor must
fill up a " claim to vote,” stating his name in full,
whether "natural born” er naturalised, and about
a dozen other particulars, includiog. we presume,
the date when the voter’s hair first began to fall
out, his measurement round base of brain, and his
object in not being a Chinaman. The Item
"natural born,” however, enrages most of the
residents of the great northern sin-garden. To an
Englishman “natural born” means being illegiti-
mate—and illegitimacy is very natural indeed in
far Northern Queensland; to a Scotchman it im-
plies a declaration of permanent lunacy, while
Shakespearian students quote Macduff’s history to
show how a white man can be born unnaturally.
Most people put in the words “ natural-born, but
neither an idiot nor a monstrosity.” "Qualifica-
tion,” is another awkward item, and one individual
clalpis to vote because he “ can read and write,
and is ef full age and upwards.” Then comes
“ length of residence,” and a great number fill this
up by putting In Buch answers as “22ft. loDg and
four rooms in it.” The point of Sir Sawmill s
weird northern j oke is that every one who stumbles
over his conundrums is disfranchised, and as his
own party have agents travelling round to see that
their friends fill up their papers all right, when next
election comes on they will be in full force, while
his opponents will hardly be able to rally one
“ natural born” voter for every dozen that they
count on.- Why did not Parkes strike this idea in
the days of his glory ? If he had he might
have been there—that is, in glory—at the present
moment.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
As events turned out it was rather a lucky
thing than otherwise that the Sydney Lancers and
Sydney Bicycle Club picked upon the same day for
their respective sports on the Agricultural and
Association Cricket Grounds, for both plaoes were
so crammed with visitors that neither would have
held the two lots with any degree of comfort. At
the cavalry tournament the mounted jumping
without arms was very good. Trooper Cope, a
Soudan warrior, by the way, appearing to us to
have won hands down, but the judges decided it a
tie with Trooper Yollmer, and m the jump-off the
latter was award d tue prize. Captain Weston, of
the liiawarra, Light Horse, rode his horse and
handled his weapon like a “ tradesman,” and won
both the cieaving the Turk’s head, and jumping
and cleaving tne Turk s.head competitions. Tne
tug-of-war proved an exciting item, tne Marines
and Mittagong contingent meeting in the Aral
pull, which was won by tne Marines after a gallant
struggle. Military exercises of great variety filled
up the programme, aud the Lancers may be con-
gratulate! upon having bit the public taste in
their inaugural sports meeting. The capacious
grandstand was filled to excess, but as the day
wore on it became painful to look at the sports in
“°^® 8 Q u ence of the sun’s glare. The committee
t .“ e Agricultural Ground must have been ‘ iff
J“® lr heads ” when they had it erected facing the
setting sun. It was bad enough on Saturuay, but
wnat will it belike on a sultry January afternoon ?
* * *
The notice in the morning papers that Con.
i™Z? r B accident would prevent him from riding
to come, did not tend to improve the
attractions of the Sydney Bicycle Club’s fifth
annual meeting, but the bicycle people must have
been pleasurably surprised when the principal
event started In the presence of fully 12,000
persons. The ten-miles championship, for the
Gardiner Trophy; soon resolved itself Into a matoh
between C. R. wood and J. 8. Foulkes, the latter
leading, with Wood as close up as he oould ride
consistent With safety. In this order they were
riding when the bell rang, and the men commenced
the final lap at a great pace. At the back of the
course Wood drew on to Foulkes, when the latter
appeared to hold his own, and, if anything, im-
proved his advantage a shade, but rounding for
the home turn Wood went past his man and won
with what we thought a bit to spare, in 35min.
7J4sec. At the Warehousemen’s Cricket Ground,
Melbourne, on July 10, Dwyer covered the distance
in 29tnin. 89 l-sseo. I H. H Lambton made a clever
win of the One-Mile Invitation Scratch Race; F.
J. Davis. 150vds„ won the Mile Maiden Handicap;
C. W. Mills. 190yds., carried off the Mile Open Han-
dicap; the All Sohools Mile fell to M. A. Vennard;
the Mile Trioycle Handicap was wo” by F. W. C.
Crane, 175yds.; Wontimore won the Quarter-Mile
Flat Race, with 30yds. start; A. E. Browne won the
two-miles contest for the MlUbrookCup; and H.
Mutton, 375yd5., made an easy win of the Three-
miles Open Bioyole Handicap. Wood has won the
Ten-Miles Gardiner Trophy twioe in susoession,
and it now becomes his property.
• * *
The orowd who went to Foley’s Hall on
Saturday night with the expectation of seeing a
good set-to between Lees and the "Champion
Amateur,” were treated to a disappointment, as
the show was anything but exoiting. Mr. Seale,
with his sft. Bin. and 103 t. 101 b. of avoirdupois,
looked a pigmy alongside his 6ft. odd in height and
13it opponent, but notwithstanding the disparity
in s'ze, Lees did not seem to fancy the task set
him, and allowed the little one to do all the lead-
ing. Lees landed a couple of right-handers on the
amateur, but too tar round to do any damage, and
beyond this, nothing was done in the first round.
In the seoond, the amateur got tired of waiting
for the lengthy one to lead, so placed his right a
couple of times cleverly on t eeß’ face and brought
his left across rather heavily on his favourite spot,
the "mark,” which seemed to rather knock the
wind out of Lees. In the third round. Lees ap-
peared to get savage, and tried several right-
handers. but he was all out of distance, and Mr.
AN AVERTED CALAMITY.
Naturally, if Mr. Jawbone Neild wanted a carriage to himself, he would start read-
ing his speeches; and naturally, also, the passengers would leave hurriedly; but none
of these things happened on Mr. Neild’s recent trip through the Northern districts of
New South Wales.
Seale appeared to enjoy the fun of either getting
back or ducking under them In the final, the
men came together a bit better, but no damage
was done by the time Jack Thompson told them
to shake hands. Mr. Seale's uphill game in box-
ing a clever professional of such height and
weight was made more difficult by the tactics of
the long one, who would not lead or be drawn by
the little one in front of him; but the amateur
came out of the fray with flying colours, and
showed himself by far the more scientific boxer of
the two. Steve O’Donnell, Peter Jackson’s pupil,
is as fine a young fellow as they make 'em at 6ft.
in height and 12st. in weight, and he proved him-
self a good boxer in his four rounds with Peter
Newton. O’Donnell was fighting " reputation,”
no mean handicap, and got the worst of it at first,
but as soon as he settled down to bis tssk he
showed some clever boxing, and in the final round
there was nothing to choose between the pair.
Molloy got all over Meadows for two rounds, but
we fancy the Victorian is doiDg too much work,
as he tired in the final, and Meadows made a bit
better show. Little Murphy showed some of his
terrific hitting power on the plucky Burgess; the
scientific mite Pluto, as usual, had a lad twice his
size to face, and three or four other “ sets-to ”
made up a first-class eveniDg’s sport.
* * *
Notwithstanding the immense crowds at
the Association and Agricultural Grounds, the
Liverpool Jockey Cmb had nothing to complain
of in the attendance at their race meeting on
Saturday. Sixteen runners started for the shorts,
of which PaladiD, who bad the call at 3 to 1, made an
easy win by a length from Barrilda. Rebus mads
an easy win of the SelliDg Race from Saridlal. The
20 to 1 chance Bioalong won the Winter Handicap
from the favourite, Lifeboat; Rylstone made
rather an easy win of the Townplate from Sundial;
and Roobie finished the day's sport by wincing the
Ladies’ Purse. There was an unpleasantness over
toe sale of Rylstone, when the owner struck a
gentleman who bid against him a heavy blow in
the face. It will be recollected it was over one of
these selling-races that old Terminus had his
throat out. Owners appear to think that it is an
unwarrantable liberty for outsiders to bid against
them when a horse is put up after one of these so-
called selling-races, but, it only in their own in-
terests, the Jockey Club should put this sort of
thing down with a strong hand, or buyers may
prov 3 scarce when a bid ia attended with a smack
in the mouth. It is time the usage that owners
are not to be run up was broken through.
* • *
The Melbourne Cricket Club have taken
our advice and abandoned the Idea of bringing out
an English Eleven. Barlow and Read are to be in-
cluded in Shaw’s Eleven, which will probably be
the strongest professional team that has yet left
England’s shore. It was a cruel manoeuvre of the
Melbourne amateurs to try and best a team of men
who make their bread and butter out of the game,
and It is pleasing to see the professionals come out
of the fight victorious.
• * *
In the football field on Saturday last, the
defeat of Sydney University Club by the Arfomas
created no end of surprise, as it was thought the
Gordons (who are again premier club) were tbe
only ones able to lower the colour of the 'Varsity.
In the return match between Burwood and Wal-
laroo, the former won by 7 points to 3, not-
withstanding the fact that the Wallaroos were
represented by the five men ohosen from their
ranks to play for N.B.W. against Queensland a
few weeks baok. Burwood was not represented
in the second intercolonial match, and the win on
Saturday must prove a bitter pill for the selection
committee to swallow. The Balmains beat the
Balmain Wellingtons by 9 points to 6. but not-
withstanding their defeat, the latter showed they
are entitled to rank amongst the senior olubs.
» * *
An event advertised as the amateur mile
skating ohampionship of Sydney was deolded at
the—ahem 1—" Carington” rink last week, though,
no doubt, sovne of the best skaters did not enter
beoause of ihs extreme smallness of the course.
Being 36 lapj to the mile, it was nearly “ all
corners,” moreover, competitors were re-
stricted to » certain make of wooden-wheel skates
vhere were 33 entries, 30 men coming to the post,
AC'i cboy ran in heats of two or three together.
The eight winners of the first heats were:-J. S.
Levy, H. Thompson, A. H. March, P. William-
son, T. Galloway, C. G. Hod son, J. Rigg,
and F. J. Spencer. On Thursday night
they ran off in three heats, the winners
being Levy, Thompion, and Galloway, the miles
btiog done in 6.10, 6.1, and 6 3 respectively. Owing
to the smallness oi tbe ring, every contestant,
except the two last named, fell, some of them
several times. The final heat resulted in a win for
T Galloway, who is undoubtedly the fastest mao,
though Levy has a verv pretty and finished style.
Time, 6mia. lsec. There was a large and excited
audience, betting strongly in favour of Galloway,
and the affair was managed as well as oould be in
such a small hall, but the building really permitted
no fair test of speed. H. Moyse has hitherto been
regarded as the best amateur in Sydney, having
made some capital performances at the large
Botany rink, and it would be interesting to see
him pitted against Galloway on that track,
* ♦
As we write, we hear that Mr. Peroy
M'Donnell, the brilliant young Victorian batsman,
is dying. Only last week one of Mr. M'DonneH's
brothers died—of blood-poisoning, whioh super-
vened on his having been taken to Melbourne hos-
pital after a tramcar acoident.
v * *
" Grace was in splendid form, and in spite
of the excellence of the Australians’ bowling,
scored with gveat rapidity.” We wonder whether
all this really did come by cable ? Anyhow, it’s
quite a safe thing to say.
• * *
Either of two is the oase. Some horses are
not properly trained, or some sporting scribes
drink alcohol. A few weeks ago we read in a Syd-
ney weekly that the “ trot at Albury was won in
a canter; ” something crooked tnere. Now, here
we have the Melbourne Sportsman:— “ Ocean
. . . when asked to gallop, simply walked home
in the steeplechase.” Very ungentlemanly of
Ocean.
♦ * *
A cheque for £l9 had been given at
Charters Towers In a gambling transaction and
payment was stopped. It got into the hands
of a third party, who, on finding It dishonoured,
tore it to pieces in the presence of witnesses, and
he was charged with destroying valuable pro-
perty. Judge Noel held there was no evidence of
the cheque being valuable, and said: “ If a cheque
Is given for a gambling debt it can be dishonoured
as between the drawer and payee, but if allowed
to pass to an innocent person it became of certain
value.” Prisoner was found not guilty.
AUSTRALIANA.
The new Anglo-Australian postage-stamp
will, it is alleged, shortly be issued in England.
Upon it the Queen will be represented arm-in-arm
with Henniker Heaton....On the Queensland
Central Railway about one-half of the letters con-
taining money posted in the mail-van during the
lagt four months hate gone astray. The N.S.W.
service used to take the bun for embezzlement and
bungling, now it must take a back seat....J. J
Pascoe, late cashier to the A.S.N. Co., Brisbane,
was alleged to have gone astray with the cash, but
he has been acquitted. One witness reported that
the last local audit taok place nine years ago.
Beemingly an audit is a jubilee affair up there
The Cumberland Mercury says Berner had no
blue blood in hl3 veins or he’d have been dealt
with as leniently as E. Brown Holt. Holt had only
brown blood in Ms veins ...“Were there any
respectable people there besides the larrikins?”
asked a lawyer in Sydney Central Court. “No,”
unhesitatingly answered the defence-witness,
“noneexoept myself and prisoner.” The magis-
trate smole a far away smile 796 Maoris afre
among the free and independent electors of N.Zi...
Sir Henry Loch, on his visit to Adelaide, was near
biiagrun down and slaughtered by a cab In
Tasmania the new law permits every one to value
his own land for purposes of taxation, but the
Government will have power to take the lot at the
price thus fixed ... A Chinaman missing in Grafton.
Several hundred of unemployed white workmen
are knooking about there.... By a majority of four
the South Australian Legislative Assembly have
decided to say daily prayers. They will possibly
pray to be made honest... Dedicated to the N.S.W.
Assembly—
An M.L.A. we often find
The people's N. M. E
An M.L.A. is sometimes found
A man of N. R. G.
An M L. A. is always found
To grab the L. S. D.
... Ernest Logan, late railway olerk at Bathufst,
when on his trial for embezzling £3O, said he was
driven to the act, being utterly unable to support
his wife and family on his miserable salary of £l3 a
month While the police were pursuing him
with a warrant over this affair, he had managed
to drop in for another little Government billet,
es inspector or time-keeper for the unemployed.
The Maoleay (N.8.W.) Argus states that "the
worship of the golden calf has ceased for ever
on the Maeleay,” from whioh we presume the
people In that district intend in future to reserve
their adoration for that calf’s full-grown meat ppo •
genitor... After following the supposed Great Bar_
rier murderers for several days, the N.Z, police
ran to earth two wandering gum-diggers The
Ballarat Chinamen have gone through the cere-
mony of feeding those of their deceased country-
men who are buried locally* £l7 3s. 3d. worth of
victuals were planked down on the graves. In a
Queensland town, a few years ago, a tramp made
a regular practice of sitting on the Chinese graves
and help'ng himself to the pork, fowl, and
gin, until the Joss-house-keeper found him
drunk one morning, and then “ Chinaman
no more feed ’em dead.”.....Local industry
is going ahead even in Roma (Q.) The Roma
Free Press gives the result of a trial of a
washing-machine at the looal hospital, as fol-
lows. “ The following articles were washed i a the
time specified, 1 hour and 53 minutes :-26 sheets, 13
towels, 4 blankets, 3 moleskins, 8 pillow-oases, 3
table-cloths, 4 counterpanes.” After this we shall
hear of the looal bellman’s new style of delivery*
.... For the first time in the history of tho Northern
Territory, a second edition of a paper was Issued
from the N.T. Times office a few weeks ag0...,
Scotty the Wrinkler says he has only met one
bullocky whom he could class as a gentleman*
This pHnoher unhooked his leaders to draw a log
out of the way, and when the team had passed he
unhooked them again and drew the log baok, say-
ing, "Always put everything in its plaee.”....The
four Daly River murderers are not to be hanged:
the first time for years an Australian Executive
has missed a chance of stringlng-up blaokfellows.
From the Bacohus (suggestive name) Marsh Ex-
press (Vie.):—"We are informed that the recent
earthquake’ at Yaloak Vale, reported by our Bal-
lan correspondent on the authority of Mr. Wilson,
was caused by a boy discharging a double-bar-
relled gun close to the servant’s room *
“ Winter ” overcoats are to be supplied to N S'.W.
tram-guards next month. These are for next
winter, we presume. ..At Deniliquin (N.S.W.)a
£&ng of men and an inspector have spent six weeks
and £9O, the result being the death of one rabbit,
and a very skinny one at that. At this ratelOO
rabbits would pay the cost of an Antarctic Ex-
pedition.... A teD years’ resident in Western Aus-
tralia writes to the Melbourne D.T. that the worst
land there is dear at a gift, and the best is cheap at
Is. per 100,000 acres. “It is a wretched, beastly
country and make the best of it, but it is good
enough for the rulers.”... A correspondent writes
that there are 31 civil servants in Walgett, N.B. W.,
a place where there isn’t work for eight. The
“ looal ” P.M., who draws £6OO a year, has been
away in Bydney ten months, and the sergeant of
f olice says he is ashamed he has so little to do
n a trial at Adelaide a witness tfave evidenee as to
the time required to walk from a certain office to
the Exohange. The judge, however, doubted his
assertion, and so he went out and did the distance
at top speed to settle the point An Auckland
(N.Z.) constable mistook the fog-horn of the
Mararoa for the shriek of a female in distress, so he
collected another policeman to aid him, and the pair
ran two miles to try and find the yelling woman..
From the Mitchell (Sunny Corner, N.S.W.) Press:
—" There is no mistake we have had, with one or
two exceptions, a most drunken class of doctors
among u 5.”.... A real live sober reporter has been
drawn into the Salvation circle in Melbourne.
... The Benalla (Vic.) Standard speaks of "Tom
Hood's Bong of the Shirt, and a let of other snivel-
ling drivel.”....The Newcastle (N.B. W. Call writes
that " Carington ” (ancient name, " Bullock
Island ”) contributed a drunkard the other morn-
ing to Newcastle dock. It s a hard ease when a
man can t celebrate his Island’s christening with-
out being fined, who said Australia was a free
country ?,...Richard Gibson, the Melbourne stock-
agent, left £133,647 Tne Broken-hill (N.S W.)
Co.'s latest yield is 31,3600 z. silver, or an average
of IQ3J4oz, per ton, at a cost of £4 10s. per ton...
The cost of packing flour from Derby to the
adeged Kimberley goldfield is la. 6d. per fi>. Ac-
cording to ail aocounts from unprejudiced sources,
the field is a fraud In the Northern Territory
the Chinaman pays ah average of £4 in taxes
annually against the European’s £3O. It only
takes the yeilow animal eight months to make up
his poll-tax.... At Bourke (N.S.W.). a high-toned
dog deliberately drowned himself for fear he
might be nominated for Parliament...." Mr ”
Joe Bragg is the Sydney D.T.’s name for the
notorious " converted thief.” Please call us Plain
Joe in future....lt is proposed in Melbourne to
squelch larrikinism by pasting up the Ten Com-
mandments on the walls of schools. In some
quarters, however, it is feared that even if Moses
were pasted up a!*ng with them the result would
be very small.


Tu TlTSr,,rt (
/V/gpS\ W
ZTn ZiTLp><zr~j&JicL bid
/record-.
I J=Tn M L'C /" the
\ act of oi/ccfrn^
j~o CrentOL
//n rr . -
monracKW dtf stomachs.
Mfc. fcwt. great speech in the
N ; .S:W. Connell, displayed an originality that was
as'Unexpeefced as it was'unusual. He is a strong
opponent of cremation —at least, he is a violent
and; noisy one—and among other arguments on this
suhjjeetf He urged that the stomachs of the dead
afford a good place for writing history, and
pointed out that any modem records which may
be written on the stomachs of the present genera-
tion will be lost for ever should burning instead
of Interment become the fashion. • At the first
glance the idea is startling. 1 That tho human
gizzard—the outside of it, of course— should be
referred to as an authority in. disputed points of
ancient history suggests that the owner of the
digestive organ, while alive, .carried his lore
where his dinner should have been, and that
after'death it—the loro, not the dinner-made its
way to the surface. Mr. Piddlwgton's argument
was based on the fact that about 3274 years ago
some Egyptian, with more money than brains,
spent fidooo In embalming Harasses ll.—supposed
to J>o Identical With the legendary Sesontris—and
wrote, some Interesting historical fno-s on the dead
king's [breast. and now some scientific vandals
have dragged the old warrior from his loop sleep,
and have !x;en rewarded by a glimpse of Egyptian
history, as told by an Egyptian stomach. Mr.
Piddington further asserts that a regard for the
sanctity of the dead should forbid cremation, but
it never oecurs to him, probably, that very few
people would care to spend £2OOO for the sake of
embalming and writing history on the front of a
rclativo. only to have hint dug wp and published
in after years. wna
There are certainly a good many
stomachs in the N.S. W. Upper House that afford
abundant scope for history, and there are one or
two'which would hold the, entire annals of the
colony, aud leave space for a special chapter about
tho Soudan goat-scramble, tho glories of Imperial
Federation, and the popularity of Baron Caringtoi);
moreover, there are several which seem to have
been built exclusively for historical .purposes, for
they have uovor shown tllctnselves to be good for
anything else. But there is something disagree-
able in the idea of a shrivelled, ghastly, hide-
bound Piddlngtou, M.L.C.. being tom from his
rocky tomb and inspected by a gaping crowd. Bay
in the year 5836; and it la just possible that the
future generation would read tho inscription upon
him, and then denounce it with brutal candour as
a stomach lie, and shove Mr. Piddlngtou in the
dust-heap. No one would sympathise with the
dust-heap, and no one would know enough about
ItameMta Piddlngtou to sympathise with him. He
wodld be unknelled, uncofflned, and unknown,
but we cannot guarantee that ho would bo un-
kicked, for there are always people in this world
who are devoid of reverence for tho-doad. and
they might pound on the stuffed councillor to see
vl i'i i \
111
? I
I '" :
*M I
<s3 N 1 6,
L, >ft ft*- i I
* ft* ftj r» * l
"«> «\
•S va TV 1 111
* U*
* c\ H
'S&tl* ill
V*!
'* **> t'
s* i» 2i
§
4' g
5 ti
1= ' '
sl!
V.
ft
*s
Mhe would answer for a drum or a cymbal. But
after all It would bo hotter to be burned and thin
•acape future indignity, aud it would certainly be
wiser if Mr. Piddlngtou would ca-ry hie stock of
history in his head while alive, than on hie
stomach', after death. No doubt the stomach
Blight be the more accurate of the two, but then,
"Pho appreciates accuracy In a corpse i
s "
PUT' 5
*■s***
J of fori/REfjqEs -/n B&^ec
] if I CCLTU 7TUCIZe. Ct/i-'(7!/es/
' ( 7!/es / rf Jdnti tey^Z Zfoke. {£
Some Sort offiracfrc*" '
of ?Aa.i Curious rcL ff e f
. £ 1 &7l'/'
Ramesas Plddlngton's Mummy.— An Anti-Cremation Argument.


THE QUEEN’S JUBILEE.
“ Mayor Young received a comfrisnisation from Sir Saul Samuel yesterday with reference
to lua Worship s telegram of June 21, oueftilff his and tho Corporation's congratulations to
the Queen on her having entered the Jubileo Year of her reign. Sir Saul enclosed a copy
of tho letter he addressed to Sir Homy Ponsonby and tho reply ho received from Sir
Henry, which was as follows 11 Windsor Castle, Juno 20, 1880. Sir,—l am commanded
i\y the Queen to request that you will convey her Majesty’s best thanks t<> tho Mayor of
Sydney Jor his kind congratulations on the 49th anniversary of the Queen’s accession to the
throne. —Sydney Daily Paper.
A Diplomatic Distinction with a Derned Difference.
JUBILEE YOUNO THE MAGNIFICENT: “I HUMBLY BEG TO CONGRATULATE YOUR GRACIOUS GORGEOUS EXALTED ILLUSTRIOUS MIGHTY ADORABLE MAJESTY
UPON ENIE[?]ING THE FIFIIETH YEAR OF YOU EVER-GLORIOUS REIGN.”
H. M.: "I THANK YOU, MAYOR YOUNG, FOR YOUR CONGRATULATIONS ON MY FORTY-NINTH ANNIVERSARY.”
J. Y.: "BUT-H’M-HA-ER-EH?”
(Victoria preserves an ominous silence).
J. Y. : “EB—HA—HUM—THAT IS TO SAY-DOES YOUR MAJESTY REALLY MEAN TO SAY THAT YOU AREN'T GOING TO GIMME ONE OP THOSE K.C.M.G. THINGS?”


mHBA T B B ROT A L.
Wldeiamson, Garner and MttbOBOTI,
£.68866, Mr. 8. Lazar. Geo. L. G°°<ma
Stage Manager, Mr. W. Seagrave.
IMMEDIATE SUCOBSS
Of the ORIGINAL and ONLY AUTHORISED
oi me DRAMATIB aTIoN of
MARCUS CLARKE S
great Australian work, adapted by
Kr GEORGE LEITOH.
HIS NATURAL LIFE.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
and until further notice,
his natural life.
Prices as usual: Bs., 35., Is.
to 5. Telephone No. 114. ...
N
Less
E W
issees .
OPERA
HOUSE.
Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, uarner, and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
GREAT LONDON SUCCESS,
THE CANDIDATE
THIS l9,
and the
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY,
In the brilliant Criterion Comedy,
THE CANDIDATE,
written by Justin M‘Carthy, M.P.
Assistant Stage Manager-Mr. Patterson
Business Manager for W., G., and M. Mr. w
Hughes.
BOVAL STANDARD THEATRE,
CASTLEREASH-STREET,
Between Liverpool and
Manager for Mj.’ F. Smiths: Mr. LGrant.
Under the Management of J^ r L^ a d m, g® r l ither
Business Manager Fred. Gunther
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE.
TO I FRIDAY I MORROW,
GRAND FASHIONABLE NIGHT,
When will be repeated.
Shakespeare’s comedy Id 5 acts.
Bh,l<S E MBKCBiNT , “CTIkPISB.
On SATURDAY NEXT, , .
the Tort giocw entitled
G
A 1 B
Lessee ..
Sub-Lessee
T Y
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon
Mr. John F. Sheridan,
A HIT. A HIT.
WELL, I TOLD YOU 80.
A CROWDED HOUSE.
NAP. NAP.
The fayoriteSoubrette,
AMY HORTON I NAN I AMY HORION.
H. J. SAMUELL, Manager.
A
OAD 1 M Y OF MUSIC.
Lessee and Proprietor .. F- cunard 8 "
BUBm TREMEN!:OUS tC**
RENOWNED
RAYNOR BROTHERS,
the Eccentric
COMEDIANS and MUSICAL ARTISTES,
in conjunction with
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Reserved seats atNioholson s, cor. King& Geo.sts
ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
rj\ hb
Business and Stage Manager
HALL.
Mr. Frank Smith,
Mr. E. Shipp.
The MATTHEWS’ 3rd WEEK,
In their Amusing Entertainment, including their
1 original comio Bellringing and Marvellous
Electric Hats.
The GIANT ROPE-WALKING.
UNPRECEDENTED ENTHUSIASM.
In conjunction therewith our usual Circle of
1 Entertainers will Appear Every Evening.
Popular Prioes: Orchestra chairs, 8s; stalls, Is;
balcony, 6d.
BverT Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirituel,
v ' at 1.30 o’clook. .
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager .. - •• Harry Lynch.
WILL SHORTLY RE-APPEAR In SYDNEY.
Eftsoons they heard a most melodious sound,
Of all that might delight a dainty ear,
Such as at once might not on liviDg ground,
Save in this Paradise be beard elsewhere;
Right hand it was for might which did it bear
To rave what manner of music that might he,
For all that pleasing is to living ear
Was there concerted in one harmony.
—(Fairy Queen) Spencer.
JJB W
MASONIC HAL
Caetlereagh-street.
E
N
G
L
I
FARLEY’S
OPERA.
c
o
M
P
A
N
Y
REVIVAL OF ENGLISH OPERA.
TO-NIGHT.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 19, 1880.
and every evening' tid further notice,
Balfe’s charming Opera In 3 acts,
THIS BOHEMIAN GIRL.
Devllshoof .. ■• •• •• Mr Farley.
Supported by a full and complete cast.
Powerful and Efliolent Orchestra.
Seleoted Chorus.
Cenduotor
Leader
Mona Leon Caron
Mons. De Willlmoff.
Piano kindly supplied by BEALE and CO.
Prices, 55., 35.. 35., aud Is. Plan of reserved
,55.) seats at A. Huenerbein and Corbett s, George
Btrfiet. FRA.NK STUART,
Business Manager.
SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL
EXHIBITION,
Under the distinguished patronage
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR
and
LADY CARRINGTON.
NOW OPEN TO THE PUBLIC DAILY,
at the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
from 11a.m. to 5 p.m.,
and in the evening from 7 to 10.
THE EXHIBITION
comprises
Various kinds of Machinery in motion,
Ships’ Models.
Eleetrical and rc'eotiflo Appliances.
Drawings, Photographs, &c.
A FIRST-CLASS BAND IN ATTENDANCE.
Botany and Waterloo Trams stop at Gates.
Admission—Adults, Is. School children under 14
in charge of adults will be admitted free.
Catalogues may be purchased In the Building.
Refreshment Rooms under the supervision of the
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO.
GUSTAVE FIBCHER.
Honorary Secretary.
,1 HE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY,
and HERR VONDEd, MEBDEN,
The great Cornet Soloist and Musical Virtuoso.
FIRBT AUSTRALIAN TOUR.
E. FAUST Manager.
Wollongong Temperance Hall, Thurs.,Frid., and
_ Mon. and Tues , August
23 24.
Shellharbour, Kiama, Broughton Creek, Shoal-
haven to follow. R H bbrnaßD, Agent.
T
SOUGHT READING.
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY TLLUB CRATION OF
DIVINING UNUrTERED THOUGHTS.
Western Tour.—Return Visit.
FORBES Shortly „ A „
Cudal, Orange, Wellington, &c , to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
LLO W A Y
WJ. HO
. and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“Much Ado About Nothing,” “ As You Like It,’’
See., See.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
THEATRE ROYAL,
Rockhampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
MISS JOSEPHINE DEAKIN open to engage-
ment for opera or concert. Muriel Cottage,
Harrington-street, Sbanmore.
Horatio Gilbert Parker
W
(OP CANADA),
THE EMINENT POET. LITTERATEUR, and
iHis KBBPBARBAN RECITER,
ILL give a series of popular Friday Even-
ing
RECITALS AND LECTURES,
in the elegant Hall of the Y.M.C.A.,
corner Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney,
beginning
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 13,
and for three succeeding Friday evenings,
as follows
Friday Evening, August 30,
JULIUS CA33AR.
Friday Evening, August 37,
LECTURE : HUMOURISTS OF AMERICA.
Friday Evening, September 3,
OTHELLO or HAMLET.
Box plan and tickets at Paiing’s, George-street.
Reserved Seat Tiokets for the oourse, 10a.
Single Tickets, 3s. and 23. _____
MORE LIGHT.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), TO-NIGHT,
PROTEBTAN r HALL, Castlereagh-street.
iIX NIGHTS' DEBATE,
between „ .
LECTURER, and w COLLIN3i
the well-known Secularist Lecturer.
SPIRITUALIBM versus MATERIALISM.
PROPOSITION FOR TO-NIGHT:
That the facta of Modern and Ancient Bpiritual-
iam and other Psychic Phenomena mabe beliet in
Immortality both Rational and Scientific. Mr.
Chainey affirms; Mr. Collins a©ni©B.
DON T FORGET —THURSDAY EVENINGS,
August 19, 26, September 2, 9,16, 23.
Admission, 25., Is., and 6d. . . „
Doors Open 7.30. Commence at 8 p.m.
REMEMBER, TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
FQLtY’S SYONIY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Fencing, &c. For
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
terms, &e„ apply to
E
Y
RM . R I U
• (late of tlie Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidencc obtained in
divorce libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, fqr the legal pro-
fession’and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage or death, obtained in any part of the world
n.mtffarnl debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expSitiom and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to h care.
PARRY & Gs
NEW EXTRACT
ffl
l w
i*
%
M
k
h.
uj* Jk
m
rm
p AHRY a. C0 S
EXTRRCT-SO.V
THE MAR SOAP lAL VIEW OF'H!W&
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, August 17,1838.
Tenders for public and sup-
PLIBS.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. Por fuU parti-
culars see Govsrnmbnt Gazittb, a file of waxen
is kept at every Post Office in the colony*
Tenderers may be In attendance when thetenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
reoeived at
this office-
Katun of Woruancttuppiiaa
Construction of one 50-ton Hop-
per Barge, Dredge Service
Construction of Cattle Trucking
Yards at Narramine, Great
Western Railway
Tuesday.
August 24,
at 11 o’oloofc.
Supply of 1,000,000 Wrought
Iron Spikes, Permanent Way
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Cons’ ruction of Overshot Dam
at Tirana , .
Construction of Wharf and Ap-
proach thereto, Sackvilie
Reach
Ert otion of Stable, Fencing, &0.,
Court-house, Emmaville
Erection of Kailway Station,
C&roo&r
Construction of Engine-shed
and Pits, Eskbank, Great
Western Railway
Tuesday,
August 31,
at 11 o’olook.
Manufacture in this Colony of I
Ironwork for lattice girder
Bridge over Snowy River at |
Buckley’s Crossing
Tuesday,
September 7.
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of 176,000 81eepers,
Railway Forbes to Wllcannia
Tuesday,
September 14,
at 11 o’clock.
Extension of Main Intercepting
Sewer along Parramatta-
Btreet, '
lueeoay,
September 21,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of the Prince
Alfred Hospital Connecting
Sewer
Tuesday,
September 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wenthworth Water
Works „
Ditto Pump Chamber, &c„ ditto
ditto ditto „
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes,
Valves, &0., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and Fittings,and
Erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto. _
Ditto Flexible-jointed Pipes, &c.
ditto ditto ditto
Tuesday,
Ootober 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, oont. 1, Bourke Water
Supply _
Construction of Settling Reser-
voirs, Boiler House, &c„ cont.
2, Bourke Water Bupply
Bupplj of Pipe Valves, &c , cont.
3, B jurke Water Supply
Supply and Erection of Engines,
cont. 4, Bourke Water Supply
Tuesday,
Ootober 26,
at 11 o’clock,
W. J. LYNB.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale— .
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie .
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &0., &c.
D
EMOCRAT’S POPULAR CONSULTATIONS
CAULFIELD CUP OF 1886,
1500 Subscribers, at £1 eaota.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters, £103; Non-starters, £ 00,
to be divided amongst them.
£lOOO
200
100
MELBOURNE CUP OF 1886,
2000 Subscribers, at £1 each.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third .
[Starters, £250; Non-starters, £250, divided.
£lOOO
300
200
Apply at once for tickets, and y° u are
to register letters to ensure safe delivery, i a “d en-
close two addressed envelopes withtwo stamps
(on any colony) for reply and result. Uountry
and intercolonial cheques must have exobaDg
added*
Address-" DEMOCRAT,”
Care of J. P. T. Caulfield,
Carlyle Cnambers,
Kinar-street, Sydney, N SW.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
■IBIHI
27 YORK STREET,
" 8Y DHIY,*
pwhally import*® 10* cm o* COUNT*!
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carnage
STERLING QUALITY,
LOWEST PEICEB-
- B
27 TOBK STREET*
SYDNEY.
IYIRT GUABi NIB ED


SUNDRY SHOWS.
HlB Natural Life ”, p. 8.
Gaiety Thbathe—“ Nan”..
New Ojpeba House— 1 " The Candidate” .'.7.7. !!
Alhambra Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe. „
Kor^ L Standard Theatbb-“ For the Term
Of His Natural Life’
£°a d jemy of Musio Federal Minstrels'.!!.'.' ”
New Masonic Hall— Farley’s Opera C 0.... „
* pity Marous Clarke was not at Byd-
-7®« yal * on Saturday night last. The
brig , ht-®yed litterateur would have been elated
“J® wor « was ably summarised, splendidly
presented, and enthusiastically received. It is
h?Jh ™n,Sr II ? an v. 1 wh< l feels that he has Plenty of
n ln l . to have to go 481(10 and die.
Nis eyes are full of images, his brain of fancies,
and his heart of warm glows. The early
death of men like Marcus Clarke gives grim
significance to the theory of the survival
01 the Attest. All around Australia are men
up v. l yews when Marcus Clarke
their bald heads and write away
complaoently to-day. They have never quickened
•HaJaa/-. 8 ,, ? ulBe * and never wlli. All their
leaded columns never raised one flush of bright
gladness on any reader’s oheek. Yet they are
alive and hale, while Marcus is in dust In his coffin.
Given a man possessed of flatulent medioority.
? “ a P endowed with genius, and it will, we
JP 99 oaBes out of 100, that genius
will die before it sees the face of its child/while
thi l £^ f medl ? < ?r ity wIU come ln white gloves to
d l in S of I ?. a grand-children. That is what
Phiia^h^ e if i all th ? survival of the fittest.
E+hi P hy 18 JP® K° 8t ironical of studies. Irony
Is the severest truth. *
* V V
The novel has been split up into a pro-
™f,PLtn^ f i >ura ®, t i* N am P B t o ad Heath, with its
murder and saorifloe, is presented. We get the
oonvlct ship, with the conspiracy ’tween decks
aad mutin y above. The little island on which the
wrecked people lodge rises up like a picture in a
dream. Rooks and sea-shells, sand and foliage
look fresh and natural. The convict settlement,
Port Arthur, exhibits its beasts of lawlessness and
M r- Leitoh shows that a man
“ ay . 4 the pursuit of adapter and yet have
£? 0 ? ia hhn. Most adapters are sorry humbugs.
Their sterile souls don’t know a good thougnt
O P. they see it. They strangle fine fanoies,
thinking they are giving them point. These re!
marks imply no comparisons, the writer not
having witnessed the version of “ His Natural
« ut upon the guards by Mr. Dam pier. Mr.
Leitoh preserves a phrase or two whioh calls up
the original oopy. H
* • *
Mareus Clarke was a litterateur who,
under stress of circumstance, worked as a jour-
nalist. These are different professions. They
become one when the litterateur is low, or the
journalist high. Kepler told fortunes from the
stars. He didn t believe a bit in them, but the
money he made in that way enabled him to study
the higher astronomies. A man cannot live by
literature in Australia. There are no magazines
or reviews to give adequate employment to that
order of ability. The literature of the newspapers
is mostly foreign. There are syndicates in Eng-
iund who will Bell to Australian newspaper pro-
prietors the right of publishing English serials at
ss. per column. The editor fills bis novelists’ page
in this way. It saves money to the firm and con-
ceals bis own incapacity to determine the merit of
manuscripts. The proprietors are not themselves,
in all cases, intellectual men, and the editors know
that. Literature was higher in Australia twenty
years ago than it is now. Its prospect was less in-
terrupted. Literary quaoks, by projecting bogus
Australian magazines, which were no more than
advertisements of their promoters and afew others
of similar ambitions, bave done the pursuit muoh
harm But still the literary mind exists It is oc-
o&8lonally detectable even In the columns of the
newspaper. Breadth and depth of view, elevation
of sentiment and generous appreciation of con-
flicting opinions, are discovered. The trend of the
literary mind is to wards the permanent, that of
the journalistic towards the temporary. The
apotheosis of the journalistic mind is the short-
hand reporter; the apotheosis of the literary mind
is the epic poet. Marcus Clarke’s journalism was
not of the usual kind. It was akin to the Bohe-
mianism of journalism one may meet in London
or Paris. It called on faculties of thought that
the typical journalist ignores or is ignorant of. It
polished sentences that the typical journalist
throws together anyhow. There is sloppiness in
£ ls a ovol, hat it is rare, and where it occurs it can
be attributed to his journalism.
The acting of the play was intelligent. Mr.
Leitoh s Rev. Joshua Meekin was a weil-worked-
out conception. The character fits. It is the
clearest-marked and best-sustained in the play
The gentleness, amiability, delicacy, and elaborate
formality of the little divine are nicely pourtrayed
We mean the word nicely. Mr. Leitch must have
been strongly tempted to broaden some features
into burlesque. The pronunciation of a word, and
the race from observation here and there, indicate
that the temptation was at work. But he kept his
idea tightly in hand and produced a homogeneous
picture. Miss Thomas played Sylvia. When first
she is seen she is older than the novel represents,
but one gathers an image of what she wants to be
and comes to like her. Where, at Port Arthur.
Bawes tries to awaken in her a recollection of
himself and of his past relations with her, her atti-
tude of unconsciousness is skillfully managed.
Mr. Phil. Beok, the Rufus Dawes of the
Play, was in wrong boots. We look upon Mr. Beok
880110 of the very few good stage villains in Aus-
tralia. We associate him with young Mr. Bouci-
S?alt. Rufus Hawes is not, however, a villain
Nor in Mr. Leitch s adaptation is he a strong
od aractar, anyway. We think Mr. Beck did not
choose this part. He should bave been Maurice
Frere. As it was, Mr. Gerald was only moderate
as Frere, while genuine ability of the villain type
W, 01lt . to waste on Dawes. We have not seen much
Ro Nate Douglas, whe figured as the Delilah,
barah Purfoy. We don’t remember notioing her
before. Her acting on Saturday night was fine.
After drawing the curtain in the captain’s cabin,
gesture, feature, tone, revealed abilities equal to
any displayed throughout the whole performance.
** * «
“ Nap,” at the Sydney Gaiety, has re-
appeared in a freshly-upholstered and re-stuffed
condition. The first part of the comedy has been
rendered more farcical than ever by the introduc-
£} 4 large monkey which assails Renard
*9*L-f* lo Polyglot waiters, and knocks
Renard into Gloutz and Gloutz into Renard until
tw h^oi d ,i t °. 6 o y wBlch °f, the spiderish pair it was
tn&t said Sacre-e-e-e * and which it was that
®P™ amed “ Mdn Gott.” Mudd is almost the only
oh aracter wuo has not improved-in fact, we are
inclined to prefer the original Mudd, and are con-
advisability of christening the new
Prnf Oo a!!i Bh ?/, w ? y °, f fitetinotion. The part of
&L9f® s , 80 r Hoodie is also in new hands, and Mr.
Hall plays it tolerably well, though in one resDect
he certainly failed to look the character. A brosen-
down tragedian, who has done three days’ travei-
-over very rough country, who has dropped
holes, and scrambled over mountains in
halfw Hnoa effc J. rt t 0 ke ?P ahead of an unshaven
bfack ’ and tu ™ up 14 faultless
uiaux, ana it Mr. Hall would onlv throw a
i u “P of m ud at himself he would present
plctur w , tBe Lushranging Romeo.
Mr. Sheridan, as Nap, either wears his kilts a little
shorter or has grown his legs a little longer than
in stage art D Km charaoter is a revelation
aeB Bu ? h KOOd uBe of 1118
lower iimos that we are convinced he miirht o-«r
418 part admirably mtn them affi
waist hi “ aelt on the stage from P the
soare rfh u Ud leay e his head and his
h*calvesSflfrts H chiefly m by meSnsVf
f ap O’Brien
too-bul that iaa small matter. 1 *uf B &jSg
Astern, Messrs. Walsh and King, Wfft MiM
ston supply some exoellent songs, and the other
characters are well up to the mark. Mons Durand
Plays the monkey so well that we strongly advise
°n permanently and cultivate
a thick hairy hide, and be an ape to the end or the
chapter, for even in NS.W. they oan’t collect
taxes from a moDkey; and a mention must be
made of Mr. Samuel), the energetic manager, who
n J s against the wall with his usual grace and
efficiency.
* * *
The short faroe “Nan,” with whioh the
entertainment commenced, deserves a pass! g
kick -we mean notice. It is the story of a dirty
little girl of the tomboy de>miiptiun, who is
adopted by a couple of British workmen, and who
afterwards repents and washes herself with a bar
of yellow soap She also saves a child from drown-
**,S,».J®*£B j* l ® landlord’s son to rags and hits him
on the head with a cabbage, and makes love to a
young man of the milk-and-water, oow-and-pump
school. Her two fathers are wooden-headed Le-
aeB°ription, and we regret to mention that
they don t wash themselves. They shed tears
P® arl y drop leaves a streak
alongside their British noses in its progress. Nan,
in her reformed state, is rather attractive, though
she objects to doing too much ablution at onoe,
and starts her new life with a huge coal smudge
E?„ker neck, and with a pair of boots that might
tit an unbrushed elephant. But we obj'eot strongly
* «I?® Rood young man; we have met a good many
of the sort in our pilgrimage through this vale of
tears, and we always felt a desire to kick them-in
fact, we did kick several.
** * *
Owing to a combination of adverse cir-
cumstances we did not do justioe to the new pro-
gramme of the Federate at Sydney Academy. The
opening songs were excellent, especially Mr.
Reads ’Touch the Harp gently,’’ but just as we
were in the height of enjjyment Alf. Moynham
rose and announced in verse that he would “Like
to ?.®J} n Allig-itor.” This stupendous outburst of
ambition knocked us flat, and we fell to drawing
ianoy pictures of Alf with a long scaly tail, wDiob
would be capable of flioking a Baptist chu. oh into
the middle of a Catholic cathedral, ihen we
began to speculate on the changes we would have
to make in Alf’s anatomy in order to fix on the
tail; and we resolved to take out the two lower
Joints of his spine and tie on the caudal appendage
with barbed wire. When wo awoke from our
reverie an interesting farce, entitled “Fun in a
£ og, was just beginning, but at this moment a
circumstance entirely beyond our control —an
Irish circumstance six feet high, with a strong
Tipperary accent—oalled us away, and we saw no
more of the performance that night.
** * *
“The Bohemian Girl” has now taken the
place of “The Chimes of Normandy” at the New
Masonic Hall, Sydney, and proves at least an equal
success. It is a considerable time since we last
witnessed this piece, and we not unreasonably
feared, therefore, thnt in tie interval the
Bohemian girl might have grown up and married
aud got old and gray, perhaps even bald, and that
we might flnd her engaged spanking a family of
towzled little Bohemians, or awaiting the return
home of a convivial husband who stays out late at
his club and rrives in a state of glorious Bohemian
drunk. It was a great relief, therefore, to flad er
as young and charmiag as ever, though her peren-
nial freshnfss is unaccountable. Perhaps she was
originally twins, however, and this may be the
other one, for the last we saw was certainly about
45 years of age, and blasted of a bush of hair
which made us think a Chinese washimr-bill had
taken root on the top of her head. Moreover,
sue addressed her baronial parent without an “ h,”
and that individual, when his long-lost che-iid was
restored to him, wept as though he had been peel-
ing onions, and pressed a long and pathetic-looking
Austrian nose against her shoulder in an outburst
ol joy. we are prepared, however, to take our
solemn affidavit that the Bohemian girl whom
we saw on Saturday was not the same, and after
viewing her performance we can only hope that
the other one has fouad out her true vocation
and is now carrying bricks.
* * *
As Devilahoof, Mr. Farley oarried off a
large share of the honours. No doubt a certain
olaBB of critics will complain, as before, that his
acting was lacking in energy, and to a certain ex-
tent the charge would be well-founded; in other
words, he did not flop up and down like an insane
horse in a dust-hole at critical moments, nor climb
three feet in the oxygen, and claw after the great
unattainable when defying his enemies in the first
act, and thereby give them a chance to dodge be-
tween his legs and take him in his Bohemian
rear when he came down. Had he done so he
would probably have afforded a little extra grati-
fication to the cheap gods at the back, but, on the
other hand, the average gipsy is too indolent to
flop unless it is absolutely necessary, and Devils-
hoof is a typical gipsy, though a little more daring
than the majority of his class. Mr. Farley pour-
trayed him as a cool, hardened, world-worn ad-
venturer, alert and watchful, but not noisy, a man
who never howls unless something is to be gained
by it, and even then howls no louder than he can
help, and the representation could hardly be im-
proved upon. Mr. Walshe was a success as
Tnaddeus, thouga, as before, his singing was
better than his acting. He was a great im-
provement on the last down-trodden Pole
we met, an individual with a broken hat,
who looked as if he had exchanged shirts
with a completely naked Hottentot, and who
had us for half-a-crown ( after telling a woe-
ful tale of suffering. His name was Smith, and
we have felt bad on Poles ever since. Miss Bt. John
made her first appearance this season in the
character of Arline, and gave a really splendid
rendering of the part, her singing taking the
audience by storm at the outset. Mrs. Florence
Beymour played the Gipsy Queen well, but the
character is not so well suited to her as that of
Germaine in "Lea Cloches de Cornevllle;” and
Mr. Templeton appeared as the red-legged, badly-
shaven Count. Possibly Austrian razors are not
sharp, or it may be that counts are bora in a stubbly
condition, but at all events we hope, for the oredic
of tne aristocracy, that those gaudy pants whioa
loomed on the stage like the glare of a conflagra-
tion in a chemical factory, are not common. In
the second and third acts this gentleman was
toned down a little by means of a dirt-coloured
tuft on hig chin, but even then he figured as a
lurid bass fly—or rather blue-bottle—in the
operatio ointment (metaphor a little mixed).
• • a
We hate to accuse anyone of forgery,
especially when we can't prove it, but we would
be glad to know where one individual in the or-
chestra got those notes which he blew through a
wind instrument. He was peacetui and even quiet
at times, but just at a critical moment he auu his
blow-pipe rose together like a shriek in a ceme-
tery, and the ensuement was remembersome. vVe
only onoe heard it equalled, aud that was by an
anonymous animal, half dog and half dynamite
scare—a low and vulgar beast which we don’t
want to see again—in a travelling menagerie.
* * •» *
The Sydney Royal Standard was crowded
on Friday when “Tne Merchant of Venice” was
produced. Sandwiched in between the peri-
winkles and the larrikinism of Thursday night,
and the convict-flogging business, which was
resumed on Saturday, Shyluck was placed in
rather bad company, but he made the best of the
infliction. Our own sympathies are entirely with
the afflicted and embezzled Hebrew. According to
his own snowing in the first act, he is used as a
spittoon and a door- mat, aud various other articles
of domestic furniture, by the Christian merchant,
and yet during all the years since the drama was
written it seems to have occurred to very lew
that accounts would best be squared by turning
Antonio into cats -meat and making Snyiock a
K.O.M.G. in recompense for his past sufferings.
The Venetian merchant spends his whole lire in
treading on a hook-nosed Israelitish worm, and
when at length the tougn, yellow reptile tuns, ail
Venice roils up to jump on him. Yet Shy-
lock is dignified to the last. When his
daughter skedaddles with his oriental over-
draft he curses her with vigour and intelli-
gent energy, hot Ms curse is nothing compared to
the last words of an Australian bushman, when he
aies with a boomerang In his stomach and an
empty whisky bottle by his side, and the Jew h> at
all events much better than his modern proto-
_ liven at the present day he wou d
probably be writing novels and dedicating them
to his uncle, or loafing round Government House
an<J ,®“ a hing handi with Lord Carington. or be
would be a philanthropist, or a publ’o nuisance,
xt*c» even be o inverted and bee me a
N.S W Christi-n—not a Galilee Christian, for teat
speoies is extinct. Antonio, on the other hand,
though he gets all the publio sympathy, is a mean
and bigoted sneak of the old Venetian school. He
is not good enough to turn into a decent kanaka
or horse-thief; he would make oniy a fifth-rate
immaman, for he has neither energy nor brains
enough to look like a Mongol, and he Is very
little better than an average ML a. What Bhy-
lock meant to do with the onund Qf flesh, had he
*it “ as never been explained, buft it is probable
that he intended to give it to the yellow dog that
howled at night in the next yard, and thereby
take a fiendish vengeance on that slush-coloured
animal. But, unfortunately, his design mis-
carries, and the drama concludes with the spec-
tacle of a baffled money-lender, one-third Oanaan-
ite, one-third Venetian lunatic, and one-third
bottomless pit. humping Antonio’s dishonoured
promissory-note oil the stage. The document is
not very heavy to carry, but if the unlucky
Jerusalem man had also to oarry all the sins whioh
Antonio oalmly acknowledged in the first aot he
i, ave k oen compelled to load a bullock-dray
with lies and meanness, and even then a lot of
™® dia sval Christianity would have trailed
behind the over-laden vehicle. /
* * *
Mr. Dampier put away his eye-glass and
P” 4 J o w, and it is a relief to note
that Bhyiock does not go to chase cows on th
Hawkesbury. The spectacle of an aged Hebrew
trying to milk a haughty Christian cow would no ;
be edifying. Mr. Holloway gave up hearing voice
of the night on the damp grass of tin* Domain, an
made a tolerable Antonio; Mr. Harry Lesto
transposed himself from a Chinaman—whose nam
sounded like a bad eoid-into the Venetia
Gratiano, but something of the odour of Lowe
George-street seemed to cling round him still, lik
a slop-halo on an unhealthy saint. The perform
auce will be repeated, however, on Friday, and w
will endeavour to give the other characters th
notice they deserve in our next issue. For th
present “ His Natural Life ” is again to the fore,
and is proving a great financial success; but for
our own part we would rather hunt up the beaei;
of Revelations than visit it again. This anima
by the bye, “ continued for 42 months,” so w
presume he also was a financial success, and tha
the beastly treasury was well filled.
»* « *
At Sydney Princess the hairy Buffalo i
endiDg his career in a blaze of horned glory. On
Saturday, “a great double bill” was presented
a sort of thing that is often presented to us by th
gas official, owing to the mendacity of the meter
and a good attendance resulted. Two large new
jokes, and a few v ry good songs w re given; and
ihe members of the mysterious “Order of Ful
.V£C D 8 "-something akin to Miss Braddon
Cheerful Cherokees ’’—went through their ole
performance. Tne melancholy sketch, *‘ In Heavy
Training,” turned up again, and though the point;
of this item consists chiefly in a lem nigger knock-
ing down a shiny fat ditto with a broom when the
latter s back is turned.lt took very well. Fred
Garnett, the oont rtionist, contorted a little
more than usual, and turned himself out-
side in, till only the top of his shirt was
visible. Then he tied his spine in a knot
and swallowed something—we could not exactly
see what, bur we fancy it was himself, and the
great double bill” as well, after whioh “Blinks
and Jinks ” brought the performance to a success-
ful olo*e, and left about 10 baskets of smashed
rngger lyiDg about the stage. The season has been
a good one on the whole, though the Princess is a
theatre which it is very hard to run as a flnancia
success, and a good deal ol credit is due to Mr
Ashton for the results he has achieved in the
ill-omened York-street caravanserai.
The commissioners who have been engaged
inspecting the Sydney places of amusement report
that two are in a dangerous condition, owing to
defective means of egress, &c, and that in the
event of a panic terrible loss of life might ensue.
No names are given, however, and as a matter of
common justice to the publio and to the owners
and lessees of other establishments, the theatres in
question should he immediately pointed out.
*■ * *
The oampanological Lynches are in Sydney
recuperating their forces for a comprehensive
attack on the city. Theatre and dates not yet
fixed.
** « *
An American physician, who had watched
Mary Anderson play “Juliet,” said to her: “My
dear young lady, you are wrong in one of your
effects. Don’t you know that a corpse doesn’t
stiffen for at least six hours after death ?” “My
dear doctor,” responded Mary, slowly, speaking in
deep, rich tones, and adopting a strong American
twang, “do you think I’m going to keep my
audience waiting for six hours while I stiffen?”
t* * *
A London actress sued a critic for damages,
he having described her as “an antique” She
proved that her age was not such as to justify that
term, and that she had been annoyed by letters
asking her if she had any Latin inscriptions any-
where about her, or if any limbs were wanting.
The critic had to pay, but had his revenge by
announcing next day that he had been in error,
that the lady was about to celebrate her 18th
birthday, and that there would be a fine family
gathering of all her children and grandchildren.
** * #
Yet another hash of “ His Natural Life,”
is touring around in Victoria Mr. Jingo Tyrell
(who brought a farcical action against the ‘ 1 trium-
virate ” for infringement of copyright) is running
this latest dramatic per-version of tne novel. The
playbill is a literary feast in itself. It is con-
structed after the pantomime pattern, wbereon
ati the characters have their personal character-
istics sandwiched between brackets. Gabbet, we
find is played by a Lieutenant Hermann
(‘ specially engaged to realise Marcus Clarke’s
idea ”). What a proud officer it ought to be 1
Hymn to Hermann.
Have you got G.’s classic features?
Do you kill your fellow-creatures
And make banquets off their bodies till your
hunger is assuaged ?
Are your manners, ways, and habits,
Then, the counterparts of Gabbett’s ?
Why have you, good lieutenant, been so epeoially
engaged ?
It is related that a certain giddy old earl
who used to be very sweet on Mrs. Langtry, but
taadn t seen her since she entered the dramatic
''rofessiOß, by chance met her one afternoon
coming out of Atkinson’s in Bond-street. “ And
what are you doing now, eh ?” he said, steadying
himself on his stick and scanning her pretry face
through his eye-giass. “ Why. I’m playing at
Prince's still,” she replied, with her web-known
little pout. “What? Playing at princes stillt' ’
he repeated. “Egad, I thought you had given
that up and gone on the stage a couple of years
ago.”
It is stated that George Darrell intends
retiring from the stage and devoting himself
entirely to authorship. Aaother report has it,
however, that George proposes giving uo author-
ship and adhering closely to the stage. We wonder
wfaieh is true!
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tab las to them Wolfe’s Schnapps Is recommended
Marie Brizardl Marl© Brizardl Marie Brizard!
As a strengthener of the weak Wolfe’s
Schnapps is absolutely matchless.
CANNOT BE GAINSAYED.
neon?* rS&TI g endorsements from prominent
Stlfi n -? r “Mat. carry with them the
guided hv thf v iction. Read them carefully, be
Ruiaea by the exuerlenoe and adrioe riven and
£nora B nce aff ‘i r l ng tbqy endured through
ignorance of that wmoh you can so readily obtain.
PaTPRInIw G, r, WA^K^ NG TESTIMONIAL.
years of at timeslntense sufferingr. and now havimr
80 BUort a time’, and a7euJhl
rn flllB ,S* e with gfatitudo, so that I oacN
Safe Pttto th SIDB Wakner s Safe Core, tuid
ovfr tL W^ e J er , 1 J suffered w.th pain*
,t oh it fly in the back, legs, side, and
head ; suHi je it to say I had all the svmntoms of**
uJi'* 0 * iver ancl Sidney disease. I had frequently
my bed 6 to £ ether and take to
in y oea. JJuring all this time I was under severali
UttleTood SU H rpriaed t 0 flud “hey dfd me
Jitt*® ff°od. I plaoed no oonfldenoe in proprietary
medicines, but having to leave my work S
through another attack. I was advi««ii
It 8 SAFK Cuhb - which I did. My d appeWto
w 5 B 80 poor - 1 dld not eat one good
ro,\?2J n three days, so that I was very much re-
AND SA W FE e pi r r,^ )U i^ nO h d t WAKNBR S SAs,B Cum
„~r+t. E . i LIi3, and what suaprlsed me most was
£o fl ° d that i derived more benefit from a siS
War nr s Safe Cure than from all lha
™l^fi^ arB d °ctoring. Six bottles completed a
perfect cure. lam told lam a living testimonial
to the value of Warner’s Safe *
Govt. Printing Office.
PLEEDTNG PILEB PERMANENTLY CTTRim
wi7h|aKn~my'S m S™ T Buffed
sssis
from m a e B too^in^nn«Tr 8 wl «» <» lBou,fcy I could rial
Whilst intMa I }* o ?' T not walk up-
found a case cured which rpsAmhia^mi ll an s
aave^lTttie relief® °T RNEa ' s Cure wbioh
surprised to 1 fitui’ J/paiusfeave^e BB »*?%**'*
quite able to return to m v work tT'«n n , d 1 “i®
EHSESSB™
hA^ No^. o^P rb SS his thankfulnkhh
523 'iEORQE Street. N.8.W., 15th Mav
“ Warner’s Safe Cure 8 ” I to trr
than one bottle wnen I rea^llaa^T^iS 0 !?
complaint 8 lam thou * hfc an iLurablS
no ?Sg& mS?a Tavour
Cure ” and “ safe Pills.” earner s Safe
physicians fail-safe cure
iQfh E M ERSH Cobau Street, Sydney, ns w
been ' For tb S tour years I have
,* ett inE worse and worse, suffering from
pains in my back. which at times were exorucia™
t scooped it was with th© creatfi«t hiar
r r * fs9 myself up again. My urine waa
dark and cloudy, and my appetite poor. iSIES
OramMi advice . but was none the better for 1 it
Mi'S*
fSEas?^Araf
bS’ed™* “ rourt “»"» Warner's Safe
, _Govt. R. E. Works.
SAFE CURB” CUkES COLONIAL FBVRR.
N.S^W RY IST L «lY 38 lS-^Ah ND^ EET * i 8 ™*®*.)
last i ejemher iVas^t'ake^^h * ~ 6 ho b f eginnin £ of
the C Gonial Fever. I shook from^head 0 to* foot
accompanied with cold, clammy perspiration
and bad achioTffisaUovOT
my body. My appetite failed, and I was thomrhtto
be near my end. Luring this time I was aSdi?
by medical men without the least benefical result.
L 7 i aB n^l l i ed < t °, try WARNER'^PAM Cm S
,*l? agatDst proprietary medicines wan sunh
that, although I had the best evident of ?hl
it* whFn rtm et l l icine ’ 1 di T Dot for 80me time try
it, when I did, however, X bad not t&kpn mnyi
aght t br°ttieH t /ftt When a I T began t 0 proVB its value!
well/’ bottleS taken and 1 was at work again quite
Briofcmaker.
CURED OF INCIPIENT BRIGHT’S DTSFAHh-
Islington. Newcastle, N.S.W , aeth aS«
188 i’w-A Afte L beinB: broUßbt ver y low with Live*
a* d Kidney Disease, and after being: under medicl?
treatment six months withoutreoovery IresolvSl
to give Warner s Safe Cube a trial and dM V a«
At the time I began its use I suffered »?eatlv frnm
sharp cutting pains across my bank, & and around
my side, loss of memory, sickness at the stomach!
appetite capricious, uri-e filled wit •
t (lid not d- rive perceptible good from fhA
u m ntfi I had taken four*boMe™Vte? whSi
rafl^o r uTrb r o y ttr e a s?^ aPldand ftS


THB NEW HEBRIDEAN OUTLOOK.-AJAX JOHNNY CRAPAUD DEFIES THE JINGO LIGHTNING.
(A BIT OF REALISTIC ART, A LA BARNET).


THE CHINESE IN AUSTRALA
Their Vices and Their Victims.
Disease, defilement, depravity, misery, and crime
—these are the Indispensable adjuncts which make
Chinese camps and quarters loathsome to the
senses and faculties of civilised nations. What-
ever neighbourhood the Chinese choose for the
curse of their presence forthwith begins to reek
with the abominations which are ever associated
with their vile habitations. Wherever the pig-
tailed pagans herd on Australasian soil, they Intro-
duce and practise vices the most detestable and
damnable—vices that attack everything saored iD
the system of European civilisation-vices which
cannot be named in print, and others infinitely
worse, so horrible and heinous that they cannot
be spoken of by man to man. Corruption and
pollution the most vile, characterise these centres
radiate widely therefrom, for tbe Mongolian
Octopus grows mightily within Australian terri-
tory. end stealthily, but surely includes in the
grssp ot his withfringandremorseitssarmsa daily
increasing number of helpless and hopeleEs
victims. -vr. ;
The whole world of land and water produces no
form of animal ule so repulsive as that of the
octopus. In dark ocean eaves this brute bides its
hideous body, and its prehensile limbs shoot out
thence silently aDd swiftly to grip its unsuspecting
prey. 80 sudden is the attack tbat tbe victim
knows not its danger until the saucer-shaped
suckers, by which ihe limbs fasten, are puu ping
its hearts-blood into the insatiable maw of its
captor rnd there is no escape for the prey
Until its blood ai d life are alike exhausted; wben
this is accomplished, the sapless body is permitted
to t»*il away aw th at where it will, but so long as
there is siiii a sins le drop of bit od remaining, the
suckers adbere with more than leecb-iike persist-
ence an d n> ust be cut away one by one before relief
can be obtained.
80 with the Mongolian Devil-fish. Lurking
in bis bioing-pJaets. bis arms are swift to
seize unwary vit i ms which so grappled can never
Obtain a release so long as they are capable
of a disgraceful usefulness, profit, or pleasure
Wherever this hideous monster forces an en-
trance he stays; wherever he stays he grows,
and bis growih is induced and made memor-
able by tbe destruction ot all whom be can
grasp BDd bold by m» ans of the sinews and suckers
within and up< n his ever-lengthening, ever-
Btrer gtber ing arms Every one of these arms,
each of tb<Be sessile suckers has its owu class of
victims, or especial mission of iniquity. Or e arm
shoots out ano drains the blood of those who ap-
proach tbe tan-tan table; another brings the pak-
ab-pu or Jottery-swinoie suckers into play; a
third sucks thr< ugh tbe agency of tbe hoptuck, or
opium-pipe which yearly draws from bundreosof
persons thsir ability, integrity, and virtue;
another plunders tbe law-abiding, and usually
moral white worku an, who sees the labour which
is rightly bis, torn from him by a set of moon eyed
Whoremong* rs, who neither know nor fulfil any
avoidable duties to the State or mankind Cor-
rupts n, dirset and indirect, endows a fifth arm
with power to do evil, and health is drawn in by
other tentacles which work by aid of the demons of
disease bred in the dark, and filthy dens, where the
Chinese reck'ess.y crowd, aDd where they allure
the vie'ims of tbeir lust Such are some of tbe
results ol tbe existence of tbe Chinese Devil-fish in
tbe citiss and towns of Aust alia Such are some
of tbe kinds of his devastating labours, and such
are his pitiable victims. Tet, as like his prototype,
he shrinks away into dark corners aDd dens, his
mode ano means ol iile, and tbe magnitude of bis
operations are known ODly to those whom hejruins,
and to them tbe knowledge never comes till
the suckers are doing their merciless work.
Tbat is why Chinamen are tolerated in Australia
If the nature of their file, its objects, and results
were fully known, there w ould Dot be one China-
man left on the continent; public ignorance on
these poinis is tbe only thing that saves the Mon-
golians from instant expulsion. To set down, as
we propose, a lew tsets about tbe Chinese in
Sydney .(necessarily entails a charge ol seDsatiOEal-
ism, but yet we ODiy publish oDe-third of our
knowledge of the subject. One-tbiro more is Dot
fit to be set forth in print, and an equal portion is
forbidden by a libel-law, trained apparently
in tbe direct interests of all who commit
criminal aits. For months we have been col-
lecting information of the Chinese, aDd visiting
them in tbeir most secret, and therefore most
loathsome, dene. We have allowed them to rob
us at fan-tar and pak-ah-pu; to Bicken us with
loathsome effluvia which burden their vile
breath, and bang like a fog within tbeir narrow
and polluted dens. That we have risked health,
and safety, ia merely a r ecessary incident of tbe en-
quiry; that every faculty and sense has been af-
fronted by tbe variousleatures of tbesceDeisoDiy
an assertion of tbe fact tbat ordinary white men are
lees degraded than tbe Mongols and their victims
And having thus ascertained the truth of the
whole question, we venture to publish a portion ol
tbat, regardless cf the fact tbat there will be many
who taunt us from the pulpit and ihe press with
the charge of being mere sensationalists.
* * *
Wbat do the general public of New South Wales
tbiDk ot iheCbiDese? They buy cabbages from
them, never asking bow these cabbages have been
growr ; they occasionally buy cigars from them,
without ei quint g whether tboEe cigars have paid
any duly or Dot they buy furniture, not
troubling to c< nsider by what class of work« n
that lurnlture bes been msde; aDd perhaps they
think tbe ain or d-eyed Morgol not half a bad
fellow. They even ascribe son e admirable virtues
to him. Be does not drink, it is said, and is, there-
fore, more moral tbaD the Australian, who has a
lamentable tendency tbat way ; be is civil, even to
sycophancy ; be has solved tbe»roblem of growir g
carrots out of sewage and sard; aDd as be sells bis
goods usually a shade below tbe price required by
Buropeais, tbe urenquiring purchasers are in-
clined to regard bim with a mud kind of admira-
tion. They see tbat there are some advantages to
be gaiied by dealing with him, ano they
krow nothing, and therefore believe Doibirg, re-
garding bis devastating vices. Bis pc ck-sears ate
xegaroed as a peculiarity ot tbe Celestial skin; the
grime which his lace bears, and of which the
iouneaticns were laid immediately alter his birth
they account for by racial reasons; BDd tbe evil
odour and evil lcok wbicb he carries they explain
by bis naticnality Passing along Lower Get rj. e-
sircet, G< uiburn-Etreet. erseme ot tbe streets in
tne lower suturbs, aid noticiig ihe aggressive
aimcspbeiect stit k-no otfcer woid describes it-
stink ircm ihe cocksbcpe, stink irem the opium
aeDS, stink artsiDg from tbe filth ol tbe dwellings,
andthe fljtb of which the skin of evtry far-tan-
tnop tbnaman carries a share—tbe careless Aus-
tralian merely battens bis step and pastes aloi g.
wondering tor a moment, perhaps, what those
houses are tike inside which are so iouJ-fmeJJ-
iDg and foul-locking without Men of more
Ect, cirg that tbe doorways ol
seme of these IcuJ densare filled withepiun -nek-
;i£^ r - c ' Bnm6 01 bun BEl, y» Wbc ae numbers cer-
MLr ic ? ,e .^ ct of 811 ' a ws ot hygiene,
shudder at the tereteding of small-pox
mstiUnH ol ! otber diEfct,£e > wbicb, nursed in tt ese
nif lhli*/. may one day go forth through
the cit y BEa strike down ui-
victims ADd there is to the ebser-
sign ot more certain calamity—a calamity
horrid 8 /’ ev 'jy day as lug an the Chinese
hordes are allowed to defile ibis lair city-a
Dectf l arrt'h Ub b!tB, f the f< nunes, beaitb proa
igfrls%f«» d u bo^ S tf cusandspi young men ano
fin tar a ,i' a - am J I X^ b H'h.is achieved at ihe
an n »teih£ b e ' tbe P B h-ah-pu dives, and more tbaD
dPD a rU!e Cl)luni couch, ano Id chambers of sexual
a !?* h * or detailed description of
tte Bt,oE B EaBE snudder, tbe
«ToVi cu . 8 b ’® Eo B khast, aDd the sensual at d de-
bndisguised d/slust! a Christian code, sicken with
ef A bum t anitv e |?J IBtl< } Jt i 088 for dtrnonising
«i Humanity axe carried cn without hindrance
or restraint from the laws of the colony.
Australian started a fan-tan hell, Dar-
Jinghurst would be his home, and stone-break-
ing his employment, within a month; and indul-
gence in pak-ah-pu lottery would similarly
mean penal Beolusion for a lengthy period. But
"O'M" just retribution overtakes the Mongolian.
„ 8 laws of the colonies are protective of bis life
and property, but are to him devoid of punitive
power. If an Australian steals a cabbage from a
Chinamans garden, the lav is swift to avenge;
DU J“ n ,u law interferes when the same Chinaman
robs the Australian of money, health, and all
that makes life worth having. Nor can it be con-
sidered as certain that life itself is not sometimes
taken in those ominously foul and obscure dives,
approached by dark and narrow stairs or ladders
leading down to intricßte and tortuous passages
that murders might dally be com-
mitted in these branch offices of hell, without a
chance of discovery by the outside world, and it
is similarly certain that there are Chinamen
*® eeBs to these rooms who are debased
S, brutal enough to bite a man’s ear eff for a
Shilling.
How do all these Chinamen live, is a question
that must often arise, when it is remembered that
there were 10 205 in New South Wales in 3881-an
iu? r j at,e 2(X)0 since 1871—of whom more than a
third, upwaros of 40,0. then lived in Sydney
and suburbs, and that the cumber has been
a ded to considerably since then How do they
obtain the money wi.ich enables a majority
of them to pais the hours of daylight in lordly
idleness, and what is their conduct within their
own houses ? Bow do they live, and on whom?
roiiow them into their houses, and you will
solve the problem as far as it concerns a very
large number of them.
ifi^“ b iL D S by pak->*h-pu and fan-tan is the first
item m their revenue account, and tisan impor-
tant one. There is no concealment about the
places where these swindles are worked. Anyone
THE CHOW AED HIS CHABMERS.
V\ 8b bough a janitor, looking through
trait]] bole in the door of the inferno, satisfies him
fHt of the appearance of candidates for aeult
’*® c f beforepassiig them in. The vfrious “tanks
and tables are publicly known—known as well to
the police as to the civilian. The “Mathers” ca
bu , 5L ut by aDy of tbe Bfm y of loafers wh
. ® tr l et corE era ; the “Ccobshop” ]
QUslly celebrated, so are the pieces whei
xt_k Lee, mm Lee, Quorg Lee, (hi lee
fn d a V ttnf,?. C « h^ r 8 i CBrry , OD a P er Petua] swindl
& P d . lucrative manner A China
mens shop without a fan-tan table is as in
88 8 htst-class funeral without a corpse
and there are over 20 psk-ah-pu “ banks ’’each
with a lull staff cf * facials, in fydr ey knd it
! üb Pths, going all daj and bslf the night a
tit -oti? fl r ve pr,r cirsl Camps in tbe conn
Tartan Iftflq Vhi®* ?‘°« P rei EaD aD(S ®» r - 0«ong
1883, w totfcJ of inhabitants was 942; o
tbetebesioes 37 prostitutes and 36 women "mar
ned to Chinamen 26 Chinese return themselves
finh? r b 6 f ’ ar , d 193 sB , of po ' ccupatie n That the
rum her of prole* sional gamblers is absuroly un-
cer estimated mey be jndged ircm the iact that
fort till JL Cf mp *, blch ,fc en maintained 12 fan-
an tab!* s to a population ot 110, does not appear to
gamblers at a JI, altbc ug b tbe report states
that gam bln g is carried on * xter sively, so that it
the return speaks truly the tables are automatic
rPfcrence which borders
on the impn bable.
,v 7! be 7»,7rj * be .Chinese settle In .Australia
their ch ef incustry is the robbery of luro-
pears by the s mple agency of t> eir national
games, nyentv >s no more cursed, in proportion
u> population, by slant-eyed swindlers than are
Melbourne, Brisbane, Sandhurst, Rockhampton,
B f> b other Australian cities, aDd with a mere
alteration of names whatever is here wiitten of
hyorey dens, will be equally fitted to the deßcrip-
tlen of the results ot the Mongolian invasion in
other colonies. The denß are wonderfully alike in
appearance, for the Chinaman is as conservative
Jin? f ~ 5V 1 * 8 88 a limpet, always adapting the domi-
„{?, i 0 a * B own taate, and a sketch of one house
in 88 8 ““Pie of the rest. Let one den
"whlofa need not be here named,
S^Hr.~- reßr^ B ?. ntBtlvt ’ of lta class. It has show-
windows on either side of the front door. That
l 8!? haEd Blde contains oranges,
an<l Bugar ' oane » that OQ the right
ii ®° fc l re !i y a ? d completely empty. Within the
InPi,? d f p Ply pock-marked Chinaman, sitting
8^ 00l » B#lls the fruit over a rough counter
PLf 1 eDSio .? something like an elongated gin-
?*, n e '°, r , a shortened ooffln, and this is the only
?P. I JP e v. tra , de .carried on in the premises. On the
side the back of the show-window is
over » a P d there is no pretence to any sort
hla Kio In pak-ah-pu tickets. These aresold
®J. a “ Ja pd little Pagao, usually assisted in hisoleri-
♦aiTfi.* by some stone-broke. European victim of
irplcttery frauds. On the wall behind him are posted
b , ave “ caught ” various prizes, and
beside him are hung the marked ticket*, the result
the drawings of various banks. His customers
pianua lokoloey (sixpence, or any multiple of
it/ and mark off 10 characters out of the 80 printed
upon the rice-paper voucher handed them by the
Diand heathen, who, thereupon, proceeds to take
a duplicate for the use of the “ bank.” This front
?s°?/ 8 J n . s,ae about 16ft - by 8. At the back of
the ticket-counter is a door in the wooden parti-
tion which, when open, shows a room with sleep-
-1?K:pl8 C, F J B or Selves, like those of a book-case, on
either side, and with a passage about 2ft. wide t e-
tween them. For the dissemination of infectious
diseases this system has no equal. To borrow
an expression lrom a recent writer, "the
scales of the leprous man may fail on the healthy
“me ln the berth beneath him.” Fancy six <r
eight men sle ping in a hutch, fay 7ft. by 6 and
81t. big hi lorty-two cubic feet of air to each manl
And such air. tool No window is available lor the
escape ot the noxious gases or elements, no noor
for the renewal of supply. Like pigs the China-
men lie there, snoiing and exhaling the opium
I arid tobacco which they have been smoking; Ilk
pigs in the dirt which clings to them; Jibe rigs i
their utter indifference to the debasing influence
ot iheir sunoundings: and Jibe men only in tbei
ability to attain to depibs ot degradation from
which the inseneate besets are barred. Passii
through the shop by a door at the lelt-han
corner, a passage at the side of the aforesaid sleep
ing den leads to another room about 16tt by 10
where a gesticulating and malodorous gang o
ChinameD trowd round a lan-tan table at wbic
Europeans are not allowed to pl*y. Email stake
in silver or copper are the rule, but semetime
polo glitters ttere and notes rustle, for ever
Chinaman is an inveterate gambler, and grow
reckless in bis tlay. This room is about Btt. high
for with that psesicn for economising spe ce at tb
exj ense of health and every other desideratum
the less* es < r their predecessors have rur a piat
rorm across the width of the room to serv
either as a sleeping place or store—it i
impossible to say which Passing through tM
re e m access is gamed to the den in which European
gamblers are fleeced There the unsophisticated
junior clerk who, for the first, time in his life,
earning a 4 ealary the n ore experienced book
kaei er, whose reason tells him he is a fool to sub
mit to so hald a system of robbery; the ’cute
waiter, wbo is wide awake in all mcney-deal-
Ilr gB, save with the Mongolians; and the otherwise
sensible workman or lumper with the sweat of the
day s work still on bis forehead—all lingeruntil they
come to a sia»e of stone-broke, and tnen sullenly
and slowly pass out with a deep contempt of the
folly which leads tfcem on to misery and ruin, but
usually withan equally firm determination to come
back and “slate tne Chows” by means of some in-
fallibly remunerative style of play on a future
occasion.
There is a fearful fascination about the game.
There are no enticements in the surround-
ings, no soft allurements to the vice, and no
attempt whatever to cloak the process of robbery.
The “tan-dealer” Is usually repulsively ugly even
for a Mongolian; the cashier generally uglier still;
and the animal who aota as door-keeper and
ohucker-out, a striking oompcund, unless his face
be a libel, of all the worst varieties of vice and vil-
lainy which are capable of attaching ti em selves to
the human mind. Everything is repellant, every-
thing vile about the Chinese fan-tan dives. There is
the heavy-bodied leering trinity of gaudily-fainted
sods against the wall, before whom a gloomy oil-
lamp continually burrs; there are the reck-
less and dissipated gamesters who haig round
t “ e ..“tbles; there is the glaring swindling
of the taD-dealer, and the frequent “point-
lng of the cashier; and there Is the seeth-
ing, stinking atmosphere of the room, reek-
ing with the odour of opium, fish-oi), Chinese
cookery, sewerage, and all manner of muck—all
these things eloquently protesting againsr the
presence of any persons who respect themselves,
or desire to be respected by others. Yet, in spite
of all disgusting and repelling influences, there
are men—young and old- some well and carefully
tressed, some evidently of repute in ciroles
where their gambling habits are not known,
playing at lunch-time, in the afternoon, or
at night, whenever they can escape for a few
moments from office or from hopie ek the mer-
chants who carry on business in the vicinity of
bese places how many clerks they have had to
dismiss because of a fatal fondness for these
gam#s; rsk other employers who nave suffered
trom peculations-peculations brought about by
the infatuation of fan-tan; or ask the poverty-
oppressed wife who lives on a crust because her
husband b ample wage 1b weekly offered on the
fan-tan board as an oblation to a fate directed by
an infallible system of swindling-ask them how
great a power this htll-born game has over ita
European victims. And on this point useful and
valuable testimony comes from Mr. Groom, of
Melbourne, who has for years been trying to
evolve the latent virtues of a large number of al-
leged larrikins. He states that one 01 the chief
difficulties in the way of reforming bis boys is the
fact that they are constantly drawn back into all
manner of vice by the irresistible attraction of
these fatal fan-tan tables.
But what, it may be wondered, is this game
which exercises so potent an influence? It is as
simple as pitch-and-toss The appliances consist
OD i y - a 8( l UBre Plate of iron, numbered 1, 2 3,
and 4 on the respective sides, and a number'd
counters or ■‘cash,” in size something like ordi-
narv trouser-buttons. The dealer takes a handful
oi these trom the ample heap before him and puts
them under a cup; then the money is staked on
either side of the board ; the dealer lilts the cup,
rakes out the counters by four at a time, and the
number remaining after the lest four is diawn de-
termines the winning side. Thus, if there be 33
counters placed under the cup, four is the winner*
if 31, three, and so on with other numbers. Then
the winners, if any, are paid, and a fresh deal at
once started. The methods of swindling are ex-
crescences all over the alleged game. The odds
paid to winners are substantially 3 to 1 every
time ; they nominally amount to this, whether
foe money is placed on the " fan,” or the
° r the *• save,”—positions which need
not be described—but a commission varviDg
rrom to about 20 per cent is deducted
irom winners, and other dodges unnumbered but
not unknown, are constantly practised. There is
the device of ” spring-coins.’' These are slightly
thicker than the ordinary counters, end when
tapped with the stick used by the dealer for
raking them in, the spring which holds the two
halves of the coin together is released, and what
wasasii gle coin counts two. Thus, it the three
is heavily backed while tb© four carries do money*
t P®®P r 1 1D^;coin rabies the dealer to swindle the
rightful winners and ‘ scoop the pool.*' But this
device is not very often med; it is liable to detec-
tion, and other methods are easier. Besides the
commission, which is good every time, there is a
steady means of gain in the power which the
dealer acquires by lorg practice of knowing by
the weight of the counters which he lifts frcm the
heap how many there are, and, consequently,
what the remainder will be. This may seem
utterly incredible, but it rests upon strong proof.
Otten in the day-time when no viotima are ex-
pected, the ‘•tan-dealer” may be seen takmg un
the counters, lifting up, and then counting them
to see if his estimate of their number is correct • and
frequently when big money is placed upon a num-
ber just befc re the cup is lifted, a look of anger
msy .be noticed in the eyes of the otherwise un-
impressionable and immovable dealer. A good
:t--dealer : in is frequently paid as much
as £5 a night, and it is affirmed that the servicesof
sucn are of almost equal value in Sydney and
Melbourne.
It is strange that so glaring and well-known a
system of swindling should have aDy power over
men who have intelligence enough to play, vet
the power is undeniable. Here is a single
instance in proof. A few nights ago, a re-
spectabJy-dressed and rather handsome youmr
man, who had apparently just about reached
his majority, lourged over one of the tables.
He had lost his last copper, and, after
vainly offering to stake his pocket-knife agairst
sixpence, as vainly tried to borrow coppers
from the other players. Disappointed in this he
turned upon the dealer and cursed him and his
ancestois back to the reign of Hung Fat, or there-
abouts, in eloquent and forcible blasphemy. Then
he turned to go out, probably in search of a more
fortunate table or charitable crowd. As he got to
the door he shivered; the night was piercingly
cold and the rain descending pitilessly And one
who had witnessed the scene stopped him in the
street and iearnt the full tale of his woes. He had
that day been dismissed from his third situation-
each lost by his infatuation for fan-tan No door
w»s open to him, he had pawned everything, and
must stay out all night-” And a boiler somewhere;
perhaps, was bis hopeless reflection. But his in-
quisitor promised to provtde for hitn for the night,
gave him the equivalent of bed and breakfast, on
the single condition of a promise willingly and
fervently given, never to go into a gambling den
agaiD; then the two shook bands and parted. But
for long nardiy had the Samaritan gone 52)
yards when the other came running up to him
again. 'Take it,” he said, holding out the money;
take it, for God s sake, and pay them ior a bed
m .e somewhere! Take itl If you leave me
with it 1 will only go back to those they
will rob me ag»in, and I will have to sleep out in
this cold after all.”
Down from the fan-tan den are stairs leading to
lower and dirtier abodea: rooms darker and
more greasy than acythirg on the ground-
where the lepton of sgpreseivo
stinks peculiar to Chinamen seem ever to lin-
ger, and where the forms of the grimy
Mongolians passing to and fro with shufli-
ing, sneaking step, seem more like demons of
another world than debased inhabitants of this.
Viler than pigstyes, gloomier than caves, and
fouler than sepulchral vaults, these cellars and
passages possess the worst attributes ot each of
these places. Yet the looms are not naturally re-
pulsive, nor would they be so when cccmiedby
other tenants; but the Chinaman has defiled their
walls with his filthy touch; he has vitiated what
was once a reasonably pure atmosphere, with hist
preset ce, and he has polluted the premises with
his disgusting habits; and so it is that nought save
suggestior s ot evil, incentives of disgust, and as-
sociations of vice, now seems to move in the fetid
atmosphere. Here, more than anywhere else, per-
haps, the casual visitor is struck with the total
immunity of Chinamen from the laws of the land
in which they live. Not only do their dwellings
disclose the most reckless disregard of all regula
tions and penalties to w bich Australians are rig htlw
subject, but the facilities for t scaping the Dower
oi ail laws is amply apparent. To apprehend*
Chinaman who is known to have offended would
be like catching one particular rat out of a thou-
sand running loose in a ooal cellar. To identify
oh? P“™ c uiar Mongolian, where all are so muck
alike, is a feat which would generally baffle th«
smartest detective In Bydney, ana to flndnimia
the gloomy recesses of his grimy abode, is a ten-
times more < ifficult matter. Like the devil-fish
whicn, pursued by an enemy, obscures the water#
with an inky cloud, so the Chinaman hides wfthin
the congenial darkness and mszy intricacies nf
habitations seemingly constructed with -he stegle
aim of protecting him from a righteous retribu-
(Continued on page 14.)


The Mongolian Octopus.-[?]is Grip on Autralia
Tfs^ou^
jgj O
'&/
y n \ '
■4*
I fWAO&V.
M
yfl


[?]is Grip on Australia.
m
OPIUM,
mm
C(/Sf°^ S
w- V
91'dM
' ' 'H


tlton. From one house to another he may pass, as
passes a rabbit through all the passages radiating
from a •warren, and so it happens that unleis a
Chinaman is caught red-handed in crime, be it
burglary, coin-sweating, larceny, smuggling, or
assault, he is able to put the terrors of the law at
open defiance. £
Independent cf the punitive power of the crimi-
nal, so, also, the Chinaman 1b regardless of the
remedial power of the civil law. By enactments
Of immemorial antiquity the freedom of.all who
tread British soil is assured, but the Chinaman
cares nothing for this. He imports his fellows
here and keeps them in a condition of slavery
until they have worked out their own enfranchise-
ment. He imports Chinese women sometimes and
sells them (asone was6old a few daysagoin Sydney
for £350 cash), to whomsoever is willing to invest
in so precarious a properly. No ai sistanse would
be given by the courts of Law or Equity for the
enforcement of such contracts, but he is indepen-
dent ol such aid. Oh ere is the authority en-
forceable by his own tribunals, and he requires
nothing more. For all practical purposes the
Chinese are as independent of Australian authority
as the Frenchmen of New Caledonia, or the
Esquimaux who tread their native ice.
Ascending again the narrow stairs which lead
down to the lowerregior sot the dwelling, and pass-
ing through the fan-tan room, another creakir g,
narrow staircase-slippery with dirt, and much
worn by the pilgrimages of infatuated gamblers
—leads up to the den where pak-ah-pu spiders
feed upon the money and the life of the deluded
human Iließ. The den is disagreeably ominous cf
the consequences of crime. A narrow passage,
bounded by the wall on one side, and by a breast-
bigta partition continued by means oi gnm-iooking
wooden bars, suggestive of the prisoners does at
a criminal court, on the other, is peopled by a
number of the ticket-holders in this particular
“bank,” They have paid their “lokoloey ’ (six-
pence), marked off their 10 figures, and now wait
with desperate hoptiulneis to see how many of
their markings will correspond with the 10 marked
off by the tank. If they get five thus coinciding,
they win Is. 2d.; if six, 95.; if 7, £3 13s. 6d.; if 8,
£2015s ; if 9, £36; and if all 10 so correspond. £7O.
It is the apparent munificence of these pxizeß that
makes the swindle so popular. But the dimensions
of the chance of winning a prize arein much less than
inverse ratio to the magnitude of the prize itself.
The oata of the calculation are easily obtained, for
the ticket purchaser strikes out 10 characters tjf
the 80 on the paper, and the bank obliterates 20
more. It is, therefore, 4 to 1 against the choos-
ing of any particular number by the
bank. And what is the chance of ten num-
bers coinciding ? Ask the smartest mathema-
tician in bydney. Give him reams of psper and
a week for the calculation. Or ask the Melbourne
professors who tried for a month to log it out,
and tnen could only say that the answer was in
tens of thousands. The chances sre altogether
out of proportion to the amount of the possible
prizes. In Ban Francisco, where the same game is
run on a large scale, the price of the ticket Is 10
ceDts (flvepence), and the highest prize 1300 dollars
(£260), and yet the “ baDk” wins buguy at that. To
come out a winner at pak-ah-pu at New South
“Wales prices the ticket-holder must be endowed
with '* luck” such as is only granted to one man in
a miliioD, and the Mongolians makeibeir m< ney
on the other 999.999. The investors in these tickets
do not know the magnitude of the odds against
which they contend. They can comprehend the
wide difference betweer the price of a ticket, six-
pence, and the value, £7O, of the highest prize, but
they cannot understand that between the ticket
and the prize there is a great guif of chance fixed
which few—very few—are ever able to cross eo
they buy the tickets. They keep the “banis”
going, both in George and Goulburn streets, every
halt-hour throughout the day, and through the
greater part of the night, and time after timeth* y
stand before the partith ns and poke their noses
through the wooden bai-s, while they awsit, with
hope ever doomed to disappointment, the result of
the drawing of the numbers. This is managed
generally in a fair and straightforward manner.
With oddsof ICOtolin their favour, the Mongolian
swindlers can afford to keep up a pretence of
straight forwardness. In that part of the room,
shut off by the partition from tbe outer passage,
four or five of them usually sit, while another
manages the drawiDg. Duplicates of all tickets
purchased are hsnded in, and then the drawing
commences. Eighty Bingle characters similar to
those upon the tickets, each inscribed upon
a separate ticket, are then folded up and
put into a large bowl. These are Dext dealt
out into four smaller bowls. Characters repre-
senting these smaller bowls, inscribed on coun-
ters, marbles, or cards, are placed upon a tray,
and one is taken up by any one of the persons
standing outside. Thus the bowl containing the
20 fateful numbers is chosen, and a Chinaman
proceeds to slowly chant the names of these as he
pastes them one by ODe on a board, while the
other Morgolians within the enclosure mark
them off upon blank tickets pinned ready to band
upon the tables before them. Then the disap-
pointed investors behind the bars compare their
markings with those of the bank, and file
moodily and mournfully downstairs again ;
some of them to spend the night under
the open sky, for often enough that enticing
“ seventy pounds for sixpence” induces wretched
victims to pawn their coats for a ticket; some of
them to wonder how they will square their ‘petty
cash” at the office on the morrow-for pak-ah-pu
loses more situations in the northern end of
Bjdmy than any other cause, and some of them
to buy more tickets or to have another try at the
fan-tan tables. A bigger swindle than pak-ah-pu
never was invented; more merciless swindlers
than tbe men who run it Dever came to Australia,
and greater fools than the investors in tickets
never were born.
Yet for all that it will continue to claim
its victims aa long as there is a Chinaman in
Sydney. The police may obtain convietions, as
they have already done in the case of Ah Toy,
Charley Torse, and others, but about future
prosecutions there will be the wretched baif-
heartedness which always characterises all prose-
cutions of Mongolian criminals, aDd if 20 banks
are stopped there will still be enougn going
to bring immense revenue to the commer-
cial promoters of these ingenious systuns
of public robbery. The detectives, able and
conscientious men, usually find themselves, for
some reason, unable to check these unlawful
proceedings. If the banks are prevented
from acting openly they will transact their
business in that covert manner at which
Chinese are adepts. It is absurd to suppose that
the police will now be able to tffectually prevent,
without tbe enactment of new laws, the system of
-wholesale robbery which ior years past they have
been utteily unable even to limit or check The
Mongolian is not easily eiieumvented by law. His
amt acouaintance with colonial authority is in his
evasion of the £lO poll-tax; the first English he
rears is that contained in the Acts relating to
gambling.
And tbe Chinese have another means of self-
?rotection against the terrors of the Criminal Law
heir New Year is a joyous season Their hearts
bubble over with generosity and good-will at that
particular period. They are imnelled then to pipe
presents to all their friends and acquaintances,
and i is strange how many friends a Chinaman
discovers at that period, and friends also who
could if they would only give the necessary in-
structions, bring unpleasant pressure to bear in an
inconvenient manner. Virtue is its own rew rd
Generosity is a virtue. J> hn s generosity brii gs
great reward. And bo it happens that C hinese
fan-tan tables bri. g him in a remarkably large
revenue; bis pak-ah pu swindles are magnificently
remunerative: his smuggling ventures, even if
discovered and proved, are not always very
severely pußisbed; his ocquettinge with ‘Maly
Ann” in an opium-den are not penally d;
and bis infraction of the whole criminal code at
pleasure brings no retribution, or at least rarely
such as would be commensurate with the offence.
strangely enough, the cabbage-growing China-
men are Dot so generous in tbelr gifts. “Toning
onward as toils the dull bullock ’ amoDg their
uninspiring esculents, “they grow boorisb and
strietly commercial in sentiment. But their more
enlightened brother, to whom inspiration is wafted
from the fan-tan tHble, generosity instilled with the
odour of smuggled cigars, and beneficence borne
upon the melody of the' 1 pak-ab-pu chant, is
elevated by these influences ;lhis soul swells out in
gratitude accordant with tfce inspiration, and he
willingly lavishes ample gifts upon a whole lot
of people. The code of Draco might adorn the
Statute-Book of Kew South Wales, and yet it
would not avail a very grest lot so long as John
maintains his present munificence. The Ameri-
cans have at last risen to an appreciation of this
fact. Ail the laws they could pass bad no power
to curb Mongolian eccentricities; despite all legis-
lative enactments John reiused to be clean, to be
honest, or to be moral; with increase of numbers
csme huger developments ol vice; every objeo-
tionable feature was magnified as the Chinese
population became more dense; snd now, as a
final resource, aDd as the only means of removing
a national cancer, the States are trying to effect
the gradual but complete expulsion of the
detested and degraded race. Wherever be gees
the Chinaman adapts his surroundings to himself.
The Chinese camps and colonies all over Australia,
from Cape York to Cape Otway, from Port
Jackson to Perth, are essentially similar in their
filth, their independence ef local laws, their
agencies of degradation and disaster; and entirely
the SBme in the class of persons Wbc m they bury
in moral ruin. Where Aitila s Bteed trod no blade
of grass afterwards grew; similarly, wherever
Chinamen settle, respect f( r laws, civil, municipal,
and moral, is utterly banished never to return so
long as the slant-eyed Celestial is permitted to
remain.
Buch is a discursive description of a den in the
main streets of the New South Wales capital or
any other .Aui-tiaiian city, but to see the China-
man in bis domestic liie, hisdwellingp in ibe cross-
streets, and in such purlieus as Qu< en-stre et,
Cumberland-street, the “Suez Csds), Goulburn-
street, and Cambridge-st)eet, Id Sydney, must be
visited. In Ge< rge-street the Chinamen ccquett* s
with ciime, chiefly in the form of gambling
swindles; but about tbe“R< cks,” and other locali-
ties of a similarly secluded charscter, be wallows,
and rolls, snd revels in vice for thegratificat’on of
his sensual tsstes and passions. There also are bis
establishments maintair ed as a meat s of defraud-
ing the revenue oi the country, by aid of tare-
less or-amiable Custrms tfßciB)s. There he bides
the cigais and opinm ot which consignments
are coistantiy smuggled frtm various vusels
irequentirg the port. The op urn-pipe is there
in constant request, aid its itanul ravages are
seen iD every bouse. The vtry air oi the alley
is impregnated with the heavy t dour oi the diug,
aid the Moigolians who pass and repass, by
their thamblii g gait, glisiening eyts, snd ir*mbi-
ing muscles hear evidei ce oi its pernicious tflt cts
Enter one ol these dwellings, anc you will most
nheiy see the wreuhed tnorphitiees actively
achieving their own bodily damnation
The smokers’ couch is usually a very low square
table, with arrugh pillow atoneeie.snd cov ere d
with strip s of fine matting On one sideot this table
the Cbiiaman lies,sc metimesrestii g on bis elbow,
and at oihers leclinmg at lull length. In the
middle ot the table or couch is a sinsb lamp with
a short sugarioal-shapcd gisss. Tbe lan p gives
but » feeble light, and this is luitber obscured by
the- grime, smoke, aDd opium particles wbicu
cloud ovei the glses The pievsilit g gic om ot the
aiartment is suited to the usual ociupatii n of
its tenants In t pium smokii g the first operation
is to “ cook’’ the drug, to i ec uce it to the pre per
consistency. A piece shout the iize of a pea is
put on the end of a tbin skewer (called the “yen
hock”), about the size of, bdc B'miiar in appear-
ance to, a knittn g-need)e, at d theD held over the
lamp, where it seethes aid n eits irto softness,
when it is put Id to the pipn bowl. The pipe-stem
is about 20 inches long, made of a heavy polished
wot d, and is nearly as thick as an ordinary bioom-
stlck. A bowl, in shape like a shallow cup. screws
irto this about six inches from ibe end, the extra
space being left to inciease the draught ob-
tairable. The cooked opium is pressed down
and peiforated with the yen hock, and then the
smoker, leaning so as to get the pipe-bowl over
the lamp, with a tew loDg breaths draws the
flame or heat on to the opium, aDd inhales the re-
sultant smoke, puffing it out again through his
nostrils A very few puffs suffice to exhaust the
more powerful constituents ot the ocse, ann when
no more fumes result, the devotee relaxes his
grasp of the pipe; it falls on the table, and he
turns over languidly and lays prone, with nerves
for a time pacified and at ease. He is an interest-
ing though sac study. He has, perhaps, been smok-
ing daily for 10, or even 20, years, ana the ravages
of the habit are apparent in every visible mmole
and feature Tbe pupils of bis eyes are abnormally
dilated, aDd the eyeballs are covered with a thin
glassy coating, which effect .ally elc aks anj lustre
they may cnee have possesseo. His skin, in
appearance, resembles the bide of a beast, and
looks as though it were no longer nourished from
within; the outer muscles of bis neck are rigid,
and their course plainly traceable beneath the dry
skin enfolding them; his hands are those of a sun-
dried corpse, and his body is emaciated and en-
feebled to the last degree. To him the pipe is now
not even a pleasure. Once, so long ago that he
can hardly remember the period, opium lifted him
up for a time from this world ot hard reality, to
an optimistic region a realm of iapture
where troubles were unknown, and all was
dreamy, languorous, sensu us satisfaction Tbea
the orug was a Jacob’s ladder, by meats of wh en
he could climb to a Nirvaaa of picturesque
romance, where pleasant Fancy ruled supreme
aDd Drought all the senses into subjection to
her will. But that period was too delightful to
endure for long. The poor weak Derves were dis-
tressed by the exertion of exalting the gross brain
to such unnatural t cstaoy; they oried out for a
return of the strength taken from them by
the fierce strain, the cruel task, which had
been imposed upon them. ’> hey trembled
in their agony of weakness, and called with a
voice that could not be stifled for a return of the
Stimulant which had wrought so disastrously
upon them. Then relief was tried in newer doses
ol the drug, but this could no longer enable the
braiu to soar to blissiul heights; it could only still
for a time tnose clamorous cries wbiei would
arise with renewed and louder vehemence as soon
as the ivanescent influence of tUe poison had
departed.
The wretched victim has endowed those nerves
with a raging passion which nothing but the
grave can fuliy satisfy, aud which only the in-
citer ot that passion can temporarily allay. Like
Frankenstein, he has raised a monster tor his
o»n irredeemable torture; hb has planted
seven devils within his breast which ren'
and tear him UDtil he gives them the food
'bat strengthens them to torment and tear
him again with fiercer force He is like one
who, adrliton the open sea, drinks of the briny
waters to quench *is thirst; the draught is no
sooner swallowed than the thirst breaks out afres •,
and with each draught rages tne more until finally
it gathers a passionate strength against whien ihe
enfeebled brain vainly contends for mastery.
The powers of thew and of sh ew have long eunce
departed: be is lelt at last a pitiable reck, over-
whelmed with utter ruin ot body, •■bliviou« t O' all
moral Obligations, and deprived of all nope and
even of reason itself— i ay, worse, for the reason
given for his comfort aDd consolation has become
an agent of torture and anguish to him as lung as
his life shall endure*
In writing thus we do not overlook two ohjec-
tior s to such a statement of the ease. Tbereare
some peisons who will assert opium smoking to
he haimless, if practised "in moderation ’-and wi h
“aue precautions. ’ We admit this, but ask who
ever beard of these conditiois being observed, in
Australia at any rate ? There is on tbia comment
no such thing a» moderation in this indulgence,
and temperance in the same habit is squally un-
known in America. We look at opium-smokersi as
they an, not as they would b« it they exercised
species of cuntiol »h'ch is fortign to their powers
and the nature of their temptation. ifiitber they
use the drug immooerately or they av- id it alto-
get er—they know not this “ moderation ’ so
complacently advocated by arm-chair moralists
who have never bt eo assailed by the fierce tor-
ment ot opium-bung er And again it may be
objected that it is possible to "knock it off ” alto-
gether It is possible in the case of those who
have only been smoking long enough to know the
delusive and disastrous delights which the pre-
lim leary pipes afford, but with such there is no
desire to abandon the rapture when they know
not wbat hellish misery it entails. Even to them
tearful agony from abstinence inevitably ensues.
The “yin-yans” supervene on a sudden depriva-
tion, and then every nerve in the whole body is a
mocking, raging, agonising fiend, armed with in-
describable powers of torture. The subject tem-
porarily loses bis faculties and staggers blindly and
madly through tbe streets, unheeding because un-
knowirg of eveiytbiEg around him. Beaecn is
dethroned Unnumbered demons hold high car-
nival and run riot through hiß entire system, and
the ordeal proves too dreadful to be endured
unless restraint comes from without and tbe drug
is withheld. Men in this state stop short of no
crime to obtain opium, and the Chinese, knowirg
this, look upon one of their own countrymen, so
suffering, as a reckless thief, and therefore try to
leave him without opportunity. In ’Frisco, only a
month ago, a Mongolian in this state of frenzy
walked into a chemist’s shop demanding opium
with the alternative of death is the penalty of
refusal. And Mr. Quong TBrt, of Sydney, will
testify that in China, if any property is stolen, it
can always be obtained at the opium-dens if some-
thing like its price is offered as a reward. Men
who talk calmly of the ability of morphintes to
renounce their habits, must consioer tnese trail
victims to be mere machines and not creatures of
flesh and blood, nerve and brain. Knock off
opium-tmokingl As well shout to a man to stop
falling when be is yet only half-way to the bottom
of a precipice; aD obstacle interposed may pre-
vent bis reaching tbe recks of ruin at the bottom,
but nothing else can.
The opium-smoker is rarely alone in the indulg-
ence of bia vice. There is space for two on the
table, srd tbe oiber place Is usually occupied-
occut-icd son etimes by a cead-broke and teckless
Euronean, who can he made a used ul accon piice
in tt e numberleßs systems of s»indlii g which are
never absentlrom ibose regions where Mongolians
“must co congregate,” or else by the “ricte
girlee,” ‘ littee giriee,” whose presence and ap-
pearance put the finishing touches to tbe revolting
degradation of the scene. To the lowest depths of
depravity to which men may reach there is always
a lower depth attainable only by wcmeD, and
whatever the vice be. its most revolting aspect is
seen wbeD the weaker sex lend themselves to its
allurements, bo in this case It is possible to
moralise overthe condition of the male debauchee,
but the mind <Brnct reflect calmly upoi tbe ap-
pear*) ce ol bis partner in rovoltirg practices.
There ehe Jies.suckiDg in thelumes of the diug.witb
a degree oi diiiger ce that betray s something abiD
to insanity. Her dress is negligent in tbe extreme,
ar d often not snflHcient to satisly tbe otd nary re-
quirements ot decency. Her cheeks are boile-w—
-tom dimes devoid ot all colour and sometimes
n arke< wtb a brand ot Mi ngolian yeJJow. He
gantlets of tbe presence ot strargers. 1( st to the
reality ano completeness of her moral prostration,
unheeding oi duty, and utterly indifferent con-
CMBing her maDileft destiny, she ci ntiDues her
Brooking until satiation ensues and brings brief
respiie from tbe tortures by which she is
now ever oppressed Her powers icr good in
tbiß world are destroyed by a series of acts for
which she may not. after all, be much to blame.
Her capacity te r erjoyment of the many gifts of
the world is exhausted. She has sui kto an abyss
of loathsome and miserable sensuality which the
\iiest beasts i f the field are forbidden to attain,
and, jußt as the merciful man puts a dog, hope-
lessly imitten with pamlui disease, out of Pis
misery, so one could wish, in mercy s sake, to
tring quiek deliverance to this hapless victim by
tbe aid of unerring lead or remorseless steel. Such
happy release would be murder only m the eyes of
the law. Be fore the God who rules the world, and
in tbe sight of those of His creatures who can
reason with unlettered and unprejudiced mitds,
the act would be its own and ample justification.
It is difficult for those who have never seen such
Sights to rea ise their existence, in the midst of a
wealthy, populous, and in many respects magnifi-
cent city. in George-s reet, Sydney, brilliant and
lavishly-appointed equipages roll along bearing
tbe possessors of lordly wealth; the ’‘Block’' is
crowded with aristocratic and scrupu'ously-attired
pedestrians; while barks, shops, warehouses, and
churches of magnificent proportions and costly
design, eloquently testify to the wealth of their
possessors Yet almost within tbe shade ot these
edinces, within hearing of the rolling carriages,
and almost in view of those who flaunt their
respectability, riches, and beauty oo the block
there are lanep, slums, and alleys tenanted by
Chinese where the practice of immorality and the
worship of sensuality is reduced to a science and
systematically pursued There men and women,
drunk with the viie abuse of a potent drug,
wallow in a sea of indescribable social crimes, yet
wnrst shame of all—feel ana show no shame at
discovery. There are grades, even in the lowest
class. Marriage is said to exist in some cases, and
where no pretence is made of such a state, there
is often a distant resemblance, an abhorrent cari-
cature of domestic life
An instance which may be taken as a fair type
of one of these grades is found in the house of
in . [Note —The blanks h-re are
our tributes of respect t a brutal libel law ] The
front room upstairs is used as a bedroom, and as
the opium-pipe* are there, it is rarely left without
a tenant Commonly the tceue may be desorb ed
thus. A low double-bed bas its head to the front
wall, ~nd on the opposite side a ragged celonia
sofa is piaced, the remaini g furniture consisting
of a chest of drawers, old and dirty, and two or
three chairs Up >n the bed two girls, carelessly
dressed, reoline. Both are cooning or smoking
opium. They are sisters; one is said t/> be
mareied to a Chinaman, the other to a European.
It is difficult to guess their ages, tor tm-ir
faces are marred by the profligacy with which
tney have wasted their powers. Bach bas a ebild,
a poor, shrivelled, weary-looking mite, which
seems to have tired of the brief view it has
had of the world. Breathing an atmosphere in
which all vile odours »re blended with a marked
predominance in favour of opium: playing-B
they ever do play—with other children whose only
birthright is a heritage of vice, and accumulating
their vocabulary by collecting tbe wot s uttered
by the voices of prostitutes, thieves, and
scoundrels ot every degree, their certain destiny
of misery seems already guaranteed. There is
only one chance of averting that doom; they
are wea- and sickly; t"e germs ot disease may
even now be domg their dead,y worn: the chii-
eiren may soon die, and thus end lives teat can
only be a burden and a curse It is a sign ot sym-
pathy to wish them each a boon.
Upon the couch in the same room sits a bloated
a d bleary-eyen old woman. She is said to be t e
mother of these tw . girls. With apparent uncon-
cern a= d lietl ss manner she loots at the two
wrecks opposite r,er But the sight has probably
become a familiar one. She herself has evideutiv
undergone some devastating dissipation which has
nulled her facultb s and blunted her perception.
Presently the alleged husband enters the
ro m ; he is hiaeously ugly snd searreo
by a f imer visitation ot s nali-pox ; his
eyes glitters with expectation aud passion as
he looe sat the smokers and the pipes. He ■»ili
occupy a third place on t at coucn, and tbe girls
win “cook nis opium for him and prepare bis
pipe. He will then be about as iaopy as he knows
how. Any nosier species of enjoyment would oe
incomprehensible to him as It wi uld be to his
temale Companions. \nd the old mother ? She
si s passive, silent, and uucoocerned. she shows
no emotion, sneus capable of Bout.
But a description of the Chinese quarter would
be incomplete without an allusion to houses of toe
lowest cia*B. Yiie sui jects can ouy be described
by the aid of vile terms, therefore no apology
need be made, because the language is in accord
with the theme. To avoid the necessity of leaving
tbe ta-k unfinished, the worst specimens must be
held up to view; it isthe fault <>f the theme, not of
the scribe, if the presentment is iudeiiopte. There
are t'mts when obscenity must be loosed upon,
and cryne described
While there are some of the Chinamen who
decoy white women to their dens, in order that,
they themselves may have consorts in crime, there
are othe.s to whom “Maly Ann” is merely a
source of revenue. The captivate European
woman is a mere chattel to such; there is no sen-
timent in the relationship, it is strlotly commercial.
The joint enterprise of servant and master brings in
large profits, of which the Chinaman claims his
Lnare—about 96 per cent usually, and the balance
is expended in providing opium and clothing for
the degraded Caucasian Phryne. High revels
often are held in those quiet-looking dwellings
perched up on the Books. Periodically the black
boys in service at pretentious villas and magnifi-
cent mansions in the suhurts, come into town and
assemble together, in one of these vile houses of
resort. Then the signal of their advent is passed
from den to den, and the human stock-in-trade of
the Mongolian traffickers in depravity is collected
lor the entertainment of the visitors. The subse-
quent scene, even broadly described, could not be
printed, and even if printed, eruid not be read.
A few outline particulars give a dim idea
of the carnival. The house itself consists
only of four or five rooms, of which two are
furnished with beds or couches, and in these meagre
apartments from 15 to 30 of each sex are gathered.
At the back door stand two or three foul fiends in
Mongolian shape, the promoters of the festival,
the receivers of the resulting profits. They look
on with hideous complacency, as wreckers
might look on the wave-battered hulk of a ship
which they bad drawn on to destruction,
and seem to be calculatirg the extent of the de-
moralisation they have induced, and mentally
estimating its probable commercial value. This is
the vtry deification of sensual vice. Every feature
tending to obscure or disguise the grossness of
immorality is removed; the surrounding* and
accompaniments are of the most repulsive
character. All is gross, foul, hideous, horrible, and
obscene, lhe drama is re-enacted on the nights
when men from the mail boats, or seamen trom
other ships elect to risk their goods, health, and
even lives in the pursuit of depravity. The same
moral tragedy is then staged, the actors pile a
turther weight of guilt on the load they already
have to bear, ard the Mongolian manager exul-
tantly empties the treasury box, for the produc-
tion 1b always for his benefit.
But these wretched Bahabs do not always stay
in Sydney. ' heir considerate employers deem an
occasional change of air, frt m, say. the Bocks to
BotaDy, to be very beneficial. Change of scene
a soisgood. The eye wearies of continual obser-
vation of changeless streets, ar d then the eight of
a bed of cabbeges is an immei se relief. Change of
companionship also is occasionally pleasant. And
the Chinese In suburban vegetable-farms are n-
ceedugly hospitable; though there nmy he 20 of
them sleeping in oie small room, “there is room
for Mary there.” 8o Mary goes lor occasional
visits to a suburban cabbagt gardsn, for the
etiquette tf the Rocks, as interpreted by her
n aster, does not admit of refusal ol so kind an In-
vitation. And a few pieces ot gold help to console
the kind master lor Mary’s absence. So hospitable
are some of the csbbage merchants that ihey
willlDgiy pay for the privilege of eiteriaining
the miserable female pilgrims irom tbe “Bocks.”
It is morbidly interesting to go to those haunts,
in such localises as tbe “Suez Canal,” where the
dilapidated ones congregate when there are no
visitors to be entertained at the temples ot a dis-
gusting Venus. Ot adc zen of the women present
perhaps two or three are reputed to be what is
considered respectable and even “ toney ” on the
“Roees;” they live with alleged husbands, and
even aspire to some exclusiveness in the bestowal
of their affection. Two or three more, perhaps,
are real old “ Johnny Warders,” and the r< malnder
are undeniably and professedly traffickers in
shame. All, without a single exception, have
been in gaol for offences ranging from ‘ loitering”
and “ righteous ” (for that in the “ Suez Canal ” is
the received pronunciation of “riotous”) and
nearly all are opium-smokers. They have tasted
the drug, and no sense of shame is powerful
enough now to wean them from it It is the one
bond which holds them to men whom tbe most
degraded of their class must detest, and scenes
which ihey must abhor. Were it not for tbe all-
powerful hop tuck, the opium-pipe, even reforma-
tion might be possible, but against its influence
they are helpless. Various causes and circum-
stances have brought them to their present state.
Some have fl»d to the arms of their multitudinous
Mongolian admirers because of outraged and pur-
suing justice, and the present state of such is
cap ble of exciting but little commiseration;
others have hidden here from offeßded husbands
ai d angry parents, and the remainder have been
captured and seduced by means of that potent
ally of Mongolian lust, the omnipotent, opium-pipe.
The last-named class are the most numerous,
and their misfortunes deserve the greater con-
sideration. It is difficult to arouse much com-
passion for those who have deliberately chosen-
even though the choice were made a moment
of i dignation and anger-the habitations of the
Mongol. But the oase is different with those
who have, by their own thougntiesaness or inno-
cence, been made tbe victims of gross and criminal
treachery.
Degradation of the thoughtless or innocent
usually comes by slow degrees. It may be that
a vain girl in some tobacco or boot-factory
is in want of some finery, or even money, for an
approaching holiday. Emissaries of the Octopus
come to hear of the wish; they lead Miss Vanity
to an obliging Celestial, who lends her what dress-
stuff or petty cash she desires, and thus
opens an account against her in the ledger which
will subsequently contain the record of her ruin.
The loan or money or goods is rarely repaid. The
emissaries of the Chinese creditor remind the
debtor of the obligation, and force her to revisit
the den. It she is pliant to tne w sbes of the
debtor, and willing to minister to his pleasure, her
down-hill course is certain and rapid, but if virtue,
or even disinclination, bars the way, the hop tuck
is called in to break down the barrier, and once
the pipe is held to the lios the Rubicon is passed,
no retreat is possible, and advance means inevit-
able destruction Thus the female European
population in the Chinese quarter is maintained,
nom*times mere school-children, promoted by
childish curiosity, wander round to those dens.
They look at toys and nick-nacks which are new
and strange. Tbe Chinese, with calculating
ge-erosity, give presents, which serve as an in-
citement to fmur- visits, and those visits lead to
the on v possible result when a lustful and un-
scrupulous Chinaman is one of the parties, an d am
unsuspecting, though perhaps instinctively oau-
tious girl, the other, Another recruit is sooner
or later added to the 4oneOiian harem, the
list of the Australian criminal class-)« r-calves
another entry, and another innocent girl starts
with fearful velocity on the downward path which
ends only in death.
T is is no fancy sketch. Girls can seen in
that worst part of the Cnii ese quarter, who
but two or thr-e years since, were rightly
honoured by loving schoolfellows, and they are
familiarised with ail the vices which accompany
«$ a shadow tbe form of the Mongolian O ;topus.
Oae of the girls now kept in a den on the Bocks
Says of hers if, “ I went to ’ place woen 1
was < nlv about 16, because he used to give me
presents He then wanted me to smoke but T
i ever would, because the pipes lookod so dirty.
But one nay, he nut a Bew piue before me. and
made it readv, and atter the first whiff from it, he
o’r any other man ■ I J^ 88
completely at their mercy, but so help me God I l-
was a good girl before that. Look at me now*,
what am l ? ’ '
Sbaii these things be continued ? Shall these
monsters of sensuality grappie the youth ana
innocence of Australia? Let this be a. swered
by agitation, by the popular voice and by un-
flinching legislation So long as Sensuai Chinamen
and innocent girls are permitted to come into con-
tact, so long wnl the results be disas-rous to the
Utter And as there will, we hop , be innocent
girls to the end of time, the oniy way to ob-
viate the evil is by forcible retrieval oi
tne remorseless agent of degradation, 180
Cnit aman himself. The suckers, ‘Vmeh ttfus Mr
tack feminine frailty must" be cut iheretrom
else tha moral life and every enjoyment wbien
makes existence valuable or even endurable wm
be drawn from tie welliDg veins of victims wno
atone for their sin with life-long am irredeemable
suffering. To rescue the hapless girls who worn
oti erwise fall into tbe grip of the Mougo'ian octo-
pus is a sacred duty devolving upon every
Australian who has a sister, or a motaar*-


But it must be done by legislation, and
the only legislation of any value whatever
must effect the absolute expulsion of the
Chinese Devil fish. So long as he remains, so
long also will this evil o»ntinue. Repression is
impossible ; if Chinese vioes be penalised, they
will still continue to be practised, out greater
caution win be observed than now is oustomary,
and newer dodges will be resorted to in order to
effect seclusion.
When the octopus of the ocean is pursued
or wounded, he glides mto deeper and dark r
crevices, ejecting a cloud of Ink to oonceal
his hidiog-place. Similarly the Mongolian Devil-
fish, if pursued by the police, or wounded by
legislation, will not cease from crime; he will
merely remove It back from Its present location,
and obscure his movements by those devices with
whioh a long course of evasion and defiance of
the law has made him thoroughly familiar. The
existing causes must ever induce the present evil
effaots.
A glance at the facts of the ease will
make this clear. There are In Sydney, say 2000
Chinamen who are not married, and never will
marry. They are not men who can oooupy them-
selves In study, and the contemplation of
philosophy and virtue. They are beluga without
any h'gher ideal than that based upon their own
pasiions; the gross pleasures of the body are their
one and only delight. Aad lastly, their lutt
is in most cases fed by the fieree stimulant of the
enslaving hop tuok. The degradation of others is,
therefore, an absolute necessity of their habits
and mode of life. And these habits are incapable
of alteration. On this point a Californian, who is
thoroughly familiar with the history and habita-
tions of the Colaese In AiheHos, foroibly writes in
the Northern miner (Q “Transport John
Chinaman to any part of the globe and he remains
John, Chmaman to the tips of his taper fingers.
His dres 3 , laws, prejudices are dear to him as life,
or that symbol of Celestial cttlzsnship, his plg-tiil,
He Is as incapable of any radloal change la habit
as a mummy. Let him down in the Antipodes and
he lives as though under the shadow of Pekin’s
walls.” Even If the vile instincts of the Chinese
labourer were not unalterably fixed, his lack of
physical strength would still maintain him in his
Immorality. The labour of the Australian work-
man is so valuable that its fruits suffice for the
support or a family in deoenoy and moderate
comfort. But the weaker and stupid Chinese
cannot da the work of a white man, be-
cause he is lacking in strength and intelli-
gence, and, therefore, must be content with
a smaller wage, upon whioh he cannot venture
upon marriage even if he desires to do so. It is a
huge mistake to suppose that it is the greater
diligence of Chinamen whioh enables them to sup-
plant European labourers. The real truth is that
the Chinaman who can do say half the amount of
work of which his Christian competitor is capable,
will accept about one-third the wage of the other;
his labour is therefore absolutely cheaper. Work-
ing alongside an English navvy or mechanic, the
Mongol would be beaten out of sight, but as he
only wants sufficient money to support himself In
vice, while the other must earn enough to main-
tain himself and others Id the methods of virtue,
the China uan can do the work more oheaply. Thus
beoause of his traditions, physical powers, andl >w
intellectuality, tne average Mongol must neces-
sarily bo a degraded creature. If the Legislature
could supply him with intellect, an e evattng
ideal, and increased strength of «hew and
sinew, it might possibly deprive him of his
present absorbing desire to commit crimes which
every good oitlzan abhors, but so long as he has
that desire it will, despite all police control or re-
strictive laws, be satiated by his own debasement,
and the utter ruin of others. Religion Is equally in-
efficient on this point. If the Mongol could appre-
ciate any other god than his own sensuality, his
inability, beoause of the Insufficiency of his wage,
tc live as Christians do would prevent him from
following the commands of a higher law. Dutil
the leopard changes his spots and the Ethiop his
colour, the Mongols will continue to be au ulcer in
tao fait bosom of Australia. Expulsion, and ex-
pulsion only, can meet the necessities of the
case, and to obtala the benefits arising from
this deliverance of the land from the grasp
of the Mongolian octopus we could view with
comparative uneonoern the departure of such
estimable men and useful citizens as Mr. Quong
Tart, Mr. Lee (of On Yik and Lee), who
with perhaps half-a-dozen others of the same
nationality, are worthy of a welcome in any
oouatry under the sun. But their oonduet, excel-
lent though it may be in every particular, only
serves to show in darker and more dlsgraoeful
colours the lamentable debasement, comprehen-
sive villainy, and disastrous vices of the wretohed
horde of their fellow-countrymen who are spread-
ing with ever-inoreasing rapidity over the terri-
tory of the Australian colonies.
* * *
Such are some of the features and results
of a Chinese oamp or quarter, and the descrip-
tions and observations apply throughout Austra-
lasia, wherever Cninese intest the land. We give
the facts generally, beoause details are disgusting
and partlcuiarlsatioe dangerous. Shortly the
question of dealing with the Mongol invasion will
have to be met by every Australian Legislature.
And it will have to be met squarely, not evaded by
levying a poll-tax, as on the last occasion of its
Parliamentary debate. With the object of fur-
nishing facts upon the question, our investigation
was undertaken, and its results thus written. If
Australia takes the warning thus given the enter-
prise wili be amply rewarded and its labours
redeemed
“ We should, be careful what Frankan-
flteina we bring to life,” says. Donald Cameron, the
gifted and gay editor of the Riverine (N.8.W,)
Grazier. We should be just as careful, Donald,
to have a notion, however dim, of what we are
writing about. It is amelaaoholy occupation to
go through the files of country and even metro*
politan papers and see how often this transparent
mistake about Frankenstein is made. Franken-
stein was not the name of the monster in Mrs.
Shelley s book, but of the man who made the
monster. Yersatiie leader-writers should make a
note of this faot.
“Jem Mustang” writes Deab Bul-
letin,—Allow me to ask you a—to some of us—
very important question, viz.: Can a squatter
preserve kangaroos, and refuse us kangaroo-
So aoces ® to his ground, even going so far
S£°~«5 re . aten t 0 prosecute for trespass with the
H r gouro “ hel8 ! r? Ia other words, can
any citizen preserve and proteet a noxious animal
to deatroy w hieh al 1 his taxe??”
supposes that the squatter
objects to otner people hunting on bis run beoause
he wants to secure the soalps himself as a set-off
to pay 1 the marBu P lal * ex termination-tax he has
A lady not in the very best of ciroum-
aad whose husband retired from tae
vulgar gaze for tvo years* rest Ijct &fter
bieovS* a th laW i lato i nga bo» n in trou-
ab * • TUe animal lived in toe kitchen,
but owiDg to sorrow and infirmity it did not
P n 088 , ea ® enough tick to demolish a saucer. Tht
to send°tti o e e^rflfi < i U i r h mate i? reoeived instruction!
BCee< * where the good nisrarers and old
boots go, and accordingly he rolled up carrying a
revolver and aooompauied by a ntighb.ur Taen
” You“ sh d oo t t tte h7m aP R Q h° the latto r, and saving,
tou snoot him, Bob, retired amt
tde fence with the convulsive grip of a
drowning man olutohing at a haystaox As the
7nto P toelfr a and haff /eet
into me air, and then on his friend emeruinrr t,hev
tde tea rs from their eyes aSd’ le ft
reaurrec ted °i tall ardi / dow ever, 'the horse
.K 60 *™ itself and inquired what tnerow was
!«£ ° £ “farmed d«-
bolding on tolVtS 1 7 * poli3em « n » r «
PEPPER AND SALT.
The question of Antarcfcio exploration is
■gain coming to the front, and it is proposed, if
money be fortbco uing, to despatch an expedition
from Melbourne to the froz n soutn. An
idea seems to prevail that somewhere behind the
great ice barrier may be found a community
afflicted with perpetual snuffles, but still far ad-
vanced in civilisation and Christianity and Im-
perial Federation, where an ioiole droops from the
frosty nose of charity, and where landlords are
not, and every man dwells in peace and content-
ment on his own allotment of three ioebergs and a
walrus. Down there it is, let „us hope, the An-
tarctic saint—the man who intones nasal texts and
shines in the Toung Men’s Benumbed Association,
and robs the snow-covered widow and orphan—
who is walloped by the law, while the uneducated
ruffian is set to shovelling snow; and within the
polar circle, at all events, the Chißaman has not
yet penetrated, and there is one sorrow the less.
Explorers will be spared the sight of a stiffened
Mongol running a fan-tan shop on top of a
glacier, and where the Intense oold of winter
makes it Impossible even to toueh metal
no ice-bound deaoon can pass the plate on Sun-
days and take up offertories of whale-oil for
benevolent purposes. There can be no tea-meet-
ings there, or no tea oan grow, and when church
festivities are compelled to degenerate into blubber
and tallow scrambles, they are likely soon to die
away altogether. Even a municipal banquet wil 1
be shorn of half its glory where the viands
would be restricted mainly to labilee grease,
dome day or other we may Bettlb there ourselves
to pass our old age in peace, away from royal tes-
timonials and federation grovels, and at last we
may sleep the sleep of the just with a snowball for
our eternal pillow, and a iiah-bone stuok up above
us to mark our resting-plaoe.
v * *
Tli® “ social purity” maggot is eating away
the heart of Ballarat. The local Crookses and
Walkers have discovered that gambling Is carried
on in private houses. A parson has been writing
to the papers on that congenial clerical topic—im.
morality. Two old maids, talking scandal at a
street corner, distinctly heard a young man make
use of a gigantic D. As the result of all this, the
worthy city mayor was reluctantly compelled to
call a public meeting “to see what vxu best to be
done.” Ye gods! If spirits were permitted to
walk this earth, there must oertainiy have been
ructions at that Bat arat meeting. Shades of In-
dignant dead “Identities’’ would have carried the
platform by assault and pelted the speakers with
tombstones. Wetbioks they are hovering around
us as we slug:—
In Auokland (N.Z.) lives a good and pious
man, whose name Is suggestive of 80 per shent.,
with the bill falling duo somewhere in the Valley
of the Jordan. His occupation is chiefly money*
lending and prayer, and he retires from his
“sweating-room” for an hour daily to engage in
private devotion. Recently he was visited by an
impecunious child of wrath, who wished to raise
money on mortgage, and after a brief discussion*
the man with the snuffle spake thus:-“ I never do
anything without laying the matter be f ore the
Loard. Come buck at 2 o’clock, and peradventure
I may be able to acoom odate you ” At 2 o'clock
therefore, the unconverted man returned, the in-
terval'having been spent presumably in laying
the title deeds before the tbrone of grace,
and the good and pious per shenter said
with a long and saintly ami e: “ Well, I laid your
application before the Loard, and the seourity
beiDg all right, I think I may accede to your re-
quest.” ‘‘On what termß?” was the next ques-
tion. “Well,” said the pious man with another
smile, “the times are hard and money is tight.
Suppose we say 20 per cent, for 12 months 1 ” The
borrower only waited to ask if “the Loard'•
hadn’t said 25 per cent, instead of 20, and to
remark that the pious man might go baok to his
native haunts in the suburbs of Bethlehem, and
then left. He is reported since to have raised the
necessary sum oil a Chinaman who doesn't oonsult
his stuffed Joes in businees hours.
* * •
Our old and reverend acquaintance, Mr.
Hcirsley, formerly editor of the Melbourne War
Cry, has sounded a new alarm in the Sunday
Magazine. He says: “ The perverted taste for
lollipops, caused chiefly (because not prevented)
by mothers, is a large—very large—cause of
juvenile crime.” This must be seen to. Elizabeth
Barrett Browning has pleaded eloquently for the
luckless juvenile drudges of the factory and the
mine
Do you hear the Children weeping, 6 my brothers,
fire the Sorrow comes with years ?
They are leaning their young heads against their
mothers,
And that cannot stop their tears.
The young lambs are bleating in the meadows,
The young birds are chirping in the nest,
The young fawns are playing with the shadows,
The young flowed are blowing towards the
west;
But the young, young children, 0 my brothers,
They are weeping bitterly I
They are weeping In the playtime of the others,
In the country of the free.
They look up with their pale and sunken faees*
And their looks are sad to see,
For the man’s hoary anguish draws and presses
Down the cheeks of infancy.
Mrs. Browning sleeps the sleep of the great, but
surely there is someone willing to twang a lyre
for those other poor children* whose souls are
being slain with kindness, in many a so-called
Christian home. tTp, bards* and at ’em! Take
lodgings opposite a ioliy-sbop, watch the little
lnnoeot® toddling in to their dooms* ahd then
throw off a set of verses which Bbail shake the
world. Tnis might do for k start:—
Do you ft-te the children sucking, O my brothers,
fire tne sorrow comes with years ?
They have been and got a penny from their
mothers—
Poor, misguided little dears!
The young lambs are served with new pertaters,
The young birds are made into a pie,
The young fawns are handed round by waiters,
The young flowers are “buttonholed ’’ to die;
But the young, young children, O my brothers,
They are Bucking lollipops'!
They have purchased ’'em (per favour of their
mothers)
r From the damsels in the sho*pk
They look now, with Bid distorted faces,
At the tempting acid-drops—
Bftt th'eV’ll drink, and swear, and gamble at the
r races
When they’ve done with lollipops.
The Town and Country Journal’s London
aristocrat is to the fore again under a new desig
nation. She commenced her wiid career simply as
a " Beeress,” then she appeared as the daughter of
a “Beer,” a;.d, judging from her letter.it oer
tainly teemed as if she had been drinking her malt
parent, and now she figures as the misguided pro-
geny of a “ Juke.” Undoubtedly it is a nice thing
for a Bydney paper to have a high class female
like this on the premises-lt keeps the flies away,
and lends an air of distinction to the place, but it
would certainly be better if her status were a
little better defined. Next week we fully expeot
to hear of her as “the aunt of a Mormon,”
or the sister-in-law of El Jabtz Abdul Smith,
Emir of some mud flat in Tartary, and when
it comes to that, the Gtjmtree's peeress will
probably be consigned to tae eternal dust-biu|
and a greasy cannibal hired in her stead. Her
latest subject is the Princess of Wa.es, whom she
defines in one place as a “soared sphinx”—her
alarmed expression being ascribed by many to
her dread of her atout jubilee mother-in-law—and
the “ Beeress ” dwells sadly on the time when she
used to make her own bonnets, and button her
own boots. Phis last remark refers, of course, to
the Princess, for the “ Bteress,” we befleve, not
only buttons her own boots, but brushes them as
well, and has occasionally to shine the hoof-boxes
of the parental duke Into the bargain, while the
duchess fries t he sausages for breakfast, and spanks
the dhty little marquis who Is chasing round
the ducal cat. Tne Queen, we learn, looked at the
Princess's marriage through a hole in the wall
and also Wept through the hole, though why she
did not come out and weep all round the church
and the altar it is difficult to comprehend, fea-
sibly her Majesty originally intended to bdrhe tight
through the hole, ahd thlis join the ftarty, but
being sombwkat adipose stuck midway, and was
compelled, therefore, to weep with her head in-
side the building and her feet in the vestry, but
this is not aoourately explained. The Princess, it is
stated, is seen and not heard, in whioh respeot she
differs from the “ Beeress,” who is heard very
much, but who, if we may judge from her earlier
letters, Is not fit to be seen, Neither is she fit to
be read, for when not indecent she is prosy, and
when not prosy she smells of Chinatown, but it 18
possible that when she gets on to the Duke of
Marlborough and Lord Lonsdale she may improve
a bit.
* , i ...* •„ .
In victoria, the vexed Civil servant is not
allowed even to die in peace. By the regulations
of that colony, the under-secretary or the man
who flogs the door mat, or any other official, is
entitled to nine months’ pay upon resigcation or
death, but in the former case the money is forth-
coming immediately; in the latter, it Is only paid
after being passed by Parliament, wuich s< rae-
times oauat s a delay of 13 months or so. Accord-
ingly, when a Civil servant is dying, his superiors,
out of consideration for hts wife and family, de-
mand his resignation. Possibly the patient may
be just entering the gateßof the New Jerusalem,
but he must stop outside till he signs the docu-
ment. Sometimes the messenger arrives tot) late,
and after reading the form of resignation, finds he
is shaking up a solemn and expressive corpse-,
and trying to obtain a dead autograph. Some-
times, also, he comes too soon, and the bother
he creates may occasionally induce the Sutteret to
Corpse himself when he had no previous intentioh
Of doiD& so. Occasiohally, on the other hand, a toah
ifrho is half-way through thogate—who has already
become a seraph down to the waist, and has onljr
got bis legs in this sinful set thad at
what he regards as a taeAo dodge to get him oAt
Of the Service, and b* leo by piir'e vi 1 Jlctlveness to
Withdraw hla upfcer end f.o'm the communion of
the saints a d recover. Then he may fall from
grace and die over again at some future time with
muoh worse results, and for this evil result the
Victorian Government w o u dbe clearly respon-
sible. Perh ps, on the whole, it would be better
to adopt some new syste u b> whicn a* y officia
who teels it incumbent on him to perih, m*y do
so in peace.
FIFTY-SIX AND EIGHTY-SIX
Ia the Ballarat of old.
When the diggers, strong and bold,
Threw up shining Chunks of gold
Oat of holes,
With pick and spade they wrought
All the day, as Britons ought—
But they never gave a thought
To their souls.
They’d a code of morals then,
Had those sturdy digger men—
Dick, Jack, and Bill, and Ben—
Of a kind?
A ready code, and rough,
But it did ’e¥& well enough
(They were made of sterling stair,
Bear la mind).
Deuce a bit did diggers e*re
For the incidental “swear,*’
Of a comrade who was * square ”
In his deals;
And they deemed it out of place
If a fellow had the face
To Interpolate a “ graoe ”
At his meals.
Ben, Diok, and Bill, and Jack
Shuffled eaoh a euohre pack
(Somewhat greasy at the back),
Every night;
And, If fortune proved unkind,
Well, they really didn’t mind,
For another luoky find
Put ’em right.
No distinctions then of rank,
As they played, and swore, and drank
In a manner free and frank,
To be sure;
Ah I a happy, oheery lot,
Never caring, e’er a Jot,
If their fellow-man was not
Very “ pure.’’
But the modern Ballarat,
It Is different to that,
Many parsons smug and fat
There abound;
While the diggers, strong and bold,
Of the roaring days of old—
A lot of them lie cold
In the ground.
There is humbug in the air;
Ohadband offers up a prayer
For the naughty boys who swear,
Drink, and dioe;
It isn’t safe to “ shout ”
A whisky or a stout—
Someone’s foxing round about
After vice.
Ohl the jolly days of yore,
And the diggers gone before,
We shall never see them more-
No, bedad!
They have gone and given place
To another time and raoe.
Which are (pardon our grimaoe)
Twice as bad.
K WANTED, a young lady pianist for Exbihi-
tion. Apply, and Company.”—B.M.
Herald advt.
Wanted, a Young Lad* Pianist for Exhibi-
tion.
For a lady to exhibit there's no need to advertise,
When nearly all there is of them is patent to the
eyes;
The little dears themselves take care the lesson to
impress,
That the very highest circles wear the very lowest
dress.
The ballet-girls who dance for coin their petticoats
curtail,
And “ladles” bare the other end to captivate the
male;
The first display their hose upon the stage because
they must,
While those go to the next extreme and show
their arms and bust.
There’s very little difference, that m see, any
way,
Between the means adopted their attradtlons to
display;
While one outs short her skirts to dance, the gi 1
whose blood is blue
Aohieves a like result, but has another end in view.
Yet all of them exhibit, some show more and some
show less,
But all show all they have to show, whichever way
they dress—
Or undress—would be possibly a somewhat better
term;
Ahl May the custom linger till we’re old and quite
infirm.
THE CHARGE OF ILLAWARRA.
“On Friday, As a parity of ilia^a'rralight
horse were eanterjog sharply down Castlereagh-
Street, Sydney, they came into collision with a tip-
,cart, and one of the cavalry men received a severe
fall.’'
From the fields of lilawarra,
From the oily butter city,
Where the maidens are all milkmaids
And the young men are all milkers—
Straight of hair with curly noses,
Came the lilawarra horsemen
To the big smoke bydnoy city.
And they knocked the city bandy,
Made it howl with pure amesement,
Hiding on their fiery horses
Through the crowded Sydney city {
Said they “We will show these jokers
How it*s done in lilawarra.’ '
So they raced down Castlereagh-street
tike the whirlwinds down the thountalh,
And they madb the people sbattefj
Till they reached the fatal cornet
Whefe the fell and stealthy tip-cart,
Ton-up-Hruitt-street the tip-carti
Lay In ambush waiting for thenu
Then the bfaVest of the horSemen,
He thb pride of lilawarra,
J'elt his dander rise within him;
He bethought him of the milkmaids
And his native pats of butter;
And he spoke in words herdie -
Ho w shall I face h into and itlndred
If I let a tip-bart best rile J
Shall I live ;or rilen to hiss me ?
And the cheery, saucy milkmaids
As I pass will turn and giggle—
‘ There’s the man that funked a tip cart I ’ ’*
So he spurred his fiery courser,
And he charged the deadly tip-oirt—
Bucked right at it with his ears back,
Met it full with fierce collision.
But the sturdy foe, the tip-dray,
Never even winked an eyelid—
Didn’tsetm to care a button;
And the pride of lilawarra,
From his saddle flying skywards—
Like a oomet in the noonday,
Btood upon his head on nothing
In the air for half a minute.
For the space of half a minute,
Like the coffin of Mahomet,
’Twixt the earth and sky suspended,
Just to show the Sydney public
How it’s done in lilawarra.
And the public wondered greatly;
Said, “ Here goes a blszing buster.”
While they uttered th- ir amaztment,
To descend he condescended,
On the pavement hard altgnted,
Like a bag of new potatoes
Dropping from an attic window;
And he found the pavement cosy,
So he lay there as in slumoer.
But his comrades brought his charger.
And he rapidly ;e-mounted
Mounted on his fier® chargor,
And he passed on down the roadway
Like a postman round the corner
With his red and dusty jacket,
While the nub ic stood in woDder;
And the stern, unconquered tip-cray.
To its stanlea roiled triumphant.
And the men lrom lilawatra
Gave the citizens a respite—
Didn’t koook them quite so bandy.
And the man that charged the tip-drav
As a sadder liler-warrior, ' ’’
Has gone baok to lila warra,


SOCIAL
A tety fashionable wedding took place ai
Ohri‘tChurch, Sydney, on Wednesday afternoon,
the lira test., when Mr Vernon C itron, man-g* r
Of the B*nk of N.S.WScon.-, was married 10 Miss
Ethel Shepherd Smith, third daughter of Mr
Bhephefd Smith, gefieral fflanagef or the Bank of
N.S.W. The church was beautifully decorated
with white flowers of every description, inter-
spersed with quantities of green, and was crowded
With euestS and spedtatcfa. Precisely at half-
pa§t two, the OhoristerS matched up the a sle,
Singing an appropriate hymn, and then the
bride followed with her fa'her to the altar-rails,
where the bridegroom and his best man, Mr.
Stuart Cotton, were in readiness. The Rev.
Tnojpoas Kemmis, assisted by the Revs Jack-
son and Bailey, performs a the ceremony. The bride
looked extrtemely graceful in a handsome ivory-
•atin gown made with a long colirt train and pro-
fusely trimmed with valuable lace and orange-
blossoms; a pr«ttily-arr»nged wreath of orange-
hlossoms ornamented the hair, and a long soft
tulle veil completed the costume. The bride's six
sisters attended as bridesmaids, and were dressed
in pretty soft white silk, with front tabller of
lace, large becoming white bats with clusters of
feathers at one side. The groomsmen were Mr.
Bayes Cotton, Mr. Lester Smith, Mr. Bowden, and
Mr. Nyberg. ;The bride carried a magnificent
bouquet of white camellies, eno« drops, and
maidenhair ferns, whi e the bridesmaids each bad
pretty little horsehair w:6 ths Composed of the
same flowers. Having left the vestry to the
strains of the wtdd rg ■ naaicb, the bridal
party drove to the Bans of N.S.W., whire
they breaklasted, and after speeches and toasts,
and general rejoicings, Mr. aru Mfs Cotton
took their departure, amidst pretty slippers and
showers of rice, for Moss Ya'e where t beboney-
moon is to bs spent The bride's travelling dress
Was very handsome and becoming, composed of
dark- blue casbthere, wjth.the same oolourtd panels
ahd tablier, high hat with white leather in front
She also wore a long brown boa. The presents
were very numerous and costly.
♦ * ¥
On 13th icst., the last of the St. Leonards’
private subscription dances was held at the local
adorned Masonic Hall. An unusual number
bf pretty, fresh looking dresses were worn
on this occasion, the most noticeable being
a crimson tulle, with bows and knots of
black velvet. A cream satin, profusely trimmed
With the same coloured lace, was worn by a
tall, stylish-looking girl from North Shore.
A married lady was admired in a haudsome gown
of pale-blue merveiileux, with draperies of the
same coloured tulle, and bunches of pearls sewn
over the dress, which made a very pretty effect. An
elaborate toilette was eau-de-nil satin, with tab-
lier of wbite-cut beads, low bodice, finished off
with the came trimming.
¥ * ¥
Sis Excellency and Lady Carington in-
spected the N.B.W. Cavalry on the 13th inst. at
Moore Park. The whole affair was a most deplor-
able flancv. First of all, tnere " warn tno
Cavalry 1 If you leave out the officers and a&out
six drummers. This ornisri n was found to be the
cause of some natural embarrassment on the p*rt
of H.E. It is true he reprtsscd a look of disgust,
and rode qui:e solemnly “up the line.” but as the
line was not much longer than a panel of fencing,
he soon came to the end of it. Then the Cavalry
turned “right, about’’ and gave H E. a back vie *
—the view was broader but not longer than before
—and in about two skips be had seen all he could
see of the N S.W. •* Cavalry.” Bome mi.itary
“evolutions” then took place, and tne gallant
fellows formed as mariy “fours” as eight men
and an odd ore can form. The odd one then
became a hollow square through which the vice-
regal party galloped iu disgust, and then got
home and did some real soldiering by putting the
Government House sentry through some “Autumn
manoeuvres.”
Two hundred
guests attended a
very successful
dance given on 11th
inst., at Byd n e y
Town Hall by the
Tarbolton Masonic
lodge. Among the
most Boticeable of
the handsome cos-
tumes worn wire a
white merino trim-
med with old gold,
plush petticoat of old
gold, and bows to
correpond. A con-
spicuous dress was
pale-pink satin
draped with cream
lace and bands of
black velvet round
the skirt; a pretty
dress was white lace
with draperies ®f
pale-blue satin mer-
veilleux; an admired
costume whs white
ciDpe de chine with
electric-blue feath-
ers and bows; ditto
a navy-blue satin
with handsome gold
embroidered lront; a stylish gown was rich white
embosstd silk with long narrow panels of bright
red siJk, the low bodice belDg finished off with red
tulle.
• * *
A wedding com'mg off at North Shore,
sboitly: Mlts Edith Maun on the one side and Lieut.
Whitebouse, R N., of H.M.B. Raven, on the other.
But as the date of the return of the Raven to port
is uncertain, the wedding-day cannot yet be fixed.
* * *
His Excellency Lord Carington, accom-
panied by the Hon. G. Baring, Lieutenant
Broadley. R.N., and other gentlemen, spent a oay
last week at Moss Vale coursing. The shooting
was quite a success His Excellency was the guest
of Mr. Badgery.
» *
Lady Carington has consented to open the
Manly Flower 'how on September Bth. If her
laaysnlp onjy knew it she has an opportunity of
doing good, by refusing to be present, that she
will perhaps never get again. Bjdney for miles
round has oeen stripped of flowers, and in another
year there will not ne a wiln flower left. But then,
of course, we’ll have instead a few snug par-
sonages for the priests of the Creator of flowers to
lounge in.
* * *
Mrs. Robert Tooth, of Darling Poiat, gave
a delight! ui dance on Thursday, August 13, The
house was beautifully deco ated. the bail-room
looking exceptionally pleas ng. The Dand stood
or sat on a platform placed half-way up the wall,
and were covered by a screen. Amongst those
pnseat were Mr. and Mrs. ADgus, of Darliog
Point, Mr. and M s Robilliard, Mr. F, and Mrs. Orr,
Miss Salomon Mr. W LHdley, Captain and Mrs.
Penrose, Lieutenant Broadiey, of H.M 8. Nelson,
Messrs. Qetey. Moore, and Smart, R.N., Captain
Sheriffe, a.D C., Lord Bertie, Captain Walllngton,
and many others. The ladies dresses were un-
usually handsome, and personal ornaments were
largely employed.
♦ *
Mrs. Macarthur, of Potts Point, gave a
dance, on the 13th inst. The rooms not being over-
crowded. permitted those who still dance to do so
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs. Dariey, the
Misses Manning, Miss J iseph, Mr. Octey, K N., Mi s
Lamb captain Wal Mr. J. Alia.a, £.id
many others. On the 11th inst. the same lady gave
a second dance.
* * *
On the 12th last. Mr. Dibbs, of North
Shore, gave an “?At Home.” About 60 guests
were present.
♦ » *
Ondit that Major Taunton, D.A.Q.M G.,
& &o„ StJ , cerforma ttedutiesof A A.Q ouring
tne absence of SAejor M>cfcenzie, A A.Q. 1! Now
what < fiance have the Russians against that ? By
the byej It is said that wheu Major-General
Richardson. C.B, accompanied by his brilliant
staff went to aN SW. to * nsfiiD on the Southern
line to review the local troops, the “troops”
turned out to be one man less in number than the
General and his dazzling personal entourage. The
consequence, it is presumed, was that the troops
feviewed th« valiant warrior of goat and donkey
renowfl.
• 9 •
Leigh House Assembly dance, on Wednes-
day eveniDg, llth inst., was in every way a suc-
cess About 180 visitors were present, and danced
until midnight. The respective numbers of ladies
and gentlemen were about equal on this occasion,
and so nobody was left sitting round the walls.
* * *■
On Saturday afternooD, 14th inst., the
Yarrandabby Tennis Club, Rushcutter's Bay, was
opened for the members to play. At present j
four asphalted coilrts are completed, and are a '
great success.
£ j|t 9
The Jewish ladies of Sydney give their j
Cinderella dance at Needs’ room) on Tuesday, 1
August 31
9 * *
Mrs. John Eales, of Duokenfield Park, I
Hunter River, gave a la-ge dance on Friday the
13th inst.
* * *
Mr. T. Rowell and Miss Quita Dibbs are to
be married about the end of tne present month.
* * *
Mr. Walter Dibbs, eldest son ot the N.B.W.
Colonial Secretary, has been appointed Associate
THE WELL-BELOVED GOVERNOR;
OR
THE AUSTRALIAN LICKS THE ENGLISH.
YH'RO re><
MfcfcH
1 4314
, 4V/<i?AUA v fa
,5fiC«KT>
1 27.2
to Judge Innes. The marriage of Miss Dibbs with
Mr. T. Powell, son of the N.B W. Collector of Cus-
toms, eas been arranged to take place towards the
end of September.
* * *
The N.B.W. Amalgamated Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association have lost a valuable president
la Mr. T. Thompson, the popular Sydney wine
merchant, who has been compelled to retire owing
to ill-health.
* * *
What, after all, is fame? Lord Carington
must be worried to supply an answer to this
gloomy conundrum, for upon a recent visit to a
football jubilee oa the Sydney Association Ground
he was actually bailed up and asked to produce
his pasteboard just like any ordinary commoner.
Ia it, then, altogether In vain that his Excellency
has patronised everytaiag from triplets to pleurisy
and from Christian Evidence to cigarettes ? It
would seem so.
* * *
The Sydney citizens’ return ball (plain
and fancy dress) to Mayor and Miss Young is to be
held in the Exhibition Building on 17th prox. Lord
and Lady Carington will attend. Ladies’tickets
are to be a guinea and gentlemen's thirty shillings.
No gallery tickets will be issued.
* * *
Mr. Francis Ormond (Melbourne) to the
front again. This time £20,000 to endow a chair
of music. We never felt more inclined to take a
chair in our life. Another lesson for the greedy
“ save-alls ” of N.S. W.
* * *
The marriage of the eldest son of Sir
William Clarke takes place on the return of his
father from Europe.
e * *
On Thursday, 12th inst., Mr. and Mrs.
Geo. Brack, of Brockleigh. NewtowD, enter-
tainei about 90 of their friends at a pleasant
a do - An excellent orchestra, spieudid display
o? flue dresses, recherctiA supper, and the hearty
efforts of the host ana hastens made the dance
more than charming. The hostess wore black
'ace skirt pink satin body, with black velvet
stripes.
All Melbourne just now is talking about a
naughty oaptain, who, after daring to take a
demi-mondaine to a bad to ooniWrt with the wives
sod daugnters of his fellow-officers, took Frepoh
| leave and skipped to Europe.
• *
A Viotorian gentlemen indignantly writes
to the Press regarding the local Wesleyan pastor
whom he nad invited to a dance at his bouse. In
j reply to his polite note, he received the following
choioe specimen of oxide oi saint:—" The Rev and
Mrs. Slope decline the invitation to * the small
dance’ on Thursday evening next, dancing being
absolutely incompatible with tneir wore in life
v z:—to assist in the Salvation not in the damna-
tion of Humanity.” It is very likely that the feet
of the author of this choice a ixture of dogma and
dog-in-the-manger were too big to permit him to
go through the performanee witu safety.
m * *
The great army of expectant Australian
snobs were, no doubt, interested to read, the other
day, that the fees exigible from the recipient of a
K.C.M.G.-ship are £llO, while the aooeptor of the
meaningless and anachronistic bauble known as a
“ Knight-bachelorship,” has to propitiate the
Mumbo of imperial offioial loaferism to the tune
of £2OO.
* * *
Mr. Griffin, the American Consul at Syd-
ney, is not to be let off without a banquet prior to
his trip to his native country. He is to be victim-
ised on the 10th prox. The consul has, we hear,
made frantic but unsuccessful efforts to escape the
ordeal.
7* * *
Another Noting "swell” (an Englishman)
married a Sydney barmaid this week. This Is the
second event of the kind at the same hotel within
a couple of months. Who comes next 7
* * *
We read that Mr. Dan. Cooper, or Sydney,
who lately married in England Miss Grant-Suttie
(" a lady who is very muon admired and is always
beautifully dressed”), gave h s bride the most
beautiful jswelp, consisting of broooh, earrings,
and necklace of diamonds and peiris, a diamond
ornament in the form of a orescent, and two
bracelets-one of diamonds and the other of dia-
monds and sapphires.” We also read that at a
reoent reception of Lady Cooper’s, mother of
Daniel aforesaid, “the supper was on the most
princely scale, and the peacneu were magnificent.”
Perhaps the peaches wouldn’t have been quite so
magnificent if an absentee-tax existed in N.B.W.
* * *
The N.S.W. cavalry tournament-day was,
taken all in all, a success-and so it should have
been, as it had been talked of and practised for for
four months. As an exhibition of military skill, it
can hardly count for much, as cutting off wooden
heads, and sticking spears into planking cannot
be accepted as thoroughly conclusive proofs of
military prowess. The day was splendid, .and the
only fault found with the show by those who paid
to see it, was that too much was given for the
money; the spectators would have oeen satisfied
with at least an hour’s less glory. The Nelson and
second Brigade bands played admirably, but the
orowd was so densejthat there was little promen-
ading; as a consequence, the ladies took them
to seats, and the seats returned the oompliment by
takiDg to them. For the seats were covered with
adhesive paint, which cemented the ladles to the
boards. As a oonsequence, the appearance pre-
sented by the fair ones when they did get
divoroed and began to do the lawn, was
gloomy in the extreme-if you looked at them
when they turned their faces away. One episode of
the day was funny. A “ horrid paper ” had alleged
that Lord Carington had said the Sydney Lanoeahs
“ couldn’t ride.” Blood or an apology from H.E.
could alone wipe this out. His lordship chose the
latter and went for an “ alibi deolared he’d
never said so—all he had said was, “As for your
riding, gentlemen, it is enough to say you are
Australians.” And it was quite enough—they’ll
never ask for an apology again. Probably no one
present knew all that was going on upon tbe
ground, for in some cases several events oocurred
simultaneously, while various of the “ manoeuvres ’
took place almost out of one's eyesight. The tug-
of-war was the “show” of the piece, hat the
R.ayal Marines won is a faot, but the Mittagong
boys puliea splendidly and took their beating—
well—" it is enough to say they are-ahem—Aus-
(Continued on next page.)
B
RADLEY, NEWTON,
LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETa
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
C zJ
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up.
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
df
£• O pr pianoforte;,
dC/OO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
m
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside” Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
r:;
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of Iligh-arb
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gs
WALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and i-
tier —a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any’material.
dfg
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
sd
fg
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
sdf
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 105.; Clothes IIo*«. from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 306.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


tralians.” Tbe popular Lieutenant" Jack ” Purves
carried off the day s honours in the tent-pegging
line, and that good all-round man, the well-beloved
Trooper “Billy” Cope, of aquatic, Soudanese,
legal, and other celebrity, was muoh sympathised
with In the narrowness of his defeat over the sticks
by Trooper Vollmer.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. S. Goodman, of the Syna-
gogue Chambers, Sydney, recently gave a most
enjoyable dance In honour of the reoently-
announeed eng'gement of their daughter. Marie,
to Mr. George Sohaohtel. Over 80 responded to
the invites- The fair fiancee was attired In a pretty
brown, trimmed with rloh plush to match; her
eldest and youngest sisters in blaok and pink satin
and b ack looked very nioe; the eldest grand-
daughter of the host wore a beoomlog blaok;
while her sister In heliotrope silk and white laoe
was as pretty as a picture. Dancing was kept
up spiritedly to De Groen’s band, till the early
hours.
* * *
An engagement, which has been kept
quiet for some time, is now announced, between
Miss Bessie Chesborough, of Womerah Avenue,
and Mr. " Tycho ” Hay, surveyor of Sydney.
* * *
Clythe, Burwood, N.S.W,, was the scene
of an enjoyable juvenile fancy-dress ball last week.
Nearly a hundred young guests attended, and
were immersed In mirth. Some very handsome
costumes were worn.
* * *
Dr. and Mrs. Garrett gave an interesting
entertainment last week at their residence, Wyn-
yard-square, Sydney A waxwork show, obarades,
and dancing comprised the evening’s amusement.
* * .*
In these days of muscle-worship, it is pleas-
ing to find that some people have time to admire
native genius. In little Elsie Hall, a child of nine
years of age, Sydney has something to be proud
of. We do not, as a rule, care for the “ infant
prodigy.” Generally the “infant” is far older
than the posters deolare, and not half so remark-
able. We have even known oases of " prodigies”
of 16 dressed up to look like 13—and this not so
THE ORPHANAGE STRUGGLE.
HE WOULDN’T PAY THE HINT.
lately. But we believe Elsie Hall really Is nine—
and we know that »he has a remarkable genius. On
Saturday night Herr Krettohmann gave an oppor-
tunity of hearing the child at a private oonoert
given by him. Tne performance was wonderful,
the little girl playing pieces that have defied the
skill of many first-rate professionals. She played
wholly from memory, and chiefly classical pieces.
If this child is not unnaturally “ forced,” we may
hear of her as a female Rubenstein.
* * *
Heinrich Kohler is the latest star in the
firmament of colonial art. His pianoforte readings
during this week will supply the desired test of
his conspicuous ability.
* * *
The Engineering Exhibition continues to
draw many interested and some scientific visitors to
Prince Alfred Park, Byoney. Industry in some of
its most inviting and picturesque forms creates a
varied entertainment, and to ail who like that sort
of thing supplies the show the exact kind of
thiDg they would like.
* * *
The London Would predicts that “Wales ”
will refuse the jsekass testimonial which is now
being soraoed together in these colonies. Possibly
he will—if a lot of money be not subscribed.
Possibly, al«o, a meteor may strike the testimonial
just when it la all ready, and convert It Into sul-
phide of flunkey, or something equally valueless.
* * *
Mrs. G. N. Russell gave a most delightful
little dance at htr residence, Pelham Hall, Wool-
lahra, on Monday last, which went off with great
eclat. About 30 couples were present.
* * *
Mr. H. G. Parker, Canadian poet and
reciter, delivered the famous " Christmas Carol ”
to an audience that was certainly *' fashionable,”
but equally scanty. Mr. Parker’s effort is a truly
wondertul one, and he is singularly successful.
But what can he do in Sydney ? Unless he comes
out in ’* burnt cork ” he has no chance.
* » *
The annual hall in aid of the Cootamundra
Hospital was a booming success. The ballroom
was as usual the grain store of Mr. J. Gibbs, de-
corated and adorned for the occasion Over 130
guests attended, and the general arrangements
engineered by Mr. H. A. O'Donnell, were pro-
ductive of deep and enduring satisfaction.
* * *
It has been said that sinoe the Primate,
Dr. Barry, came to Bvdney, he has been offered
the See of Ely, but that he magnanimously de-
clined It, as he felt bis call was to labour in tbe
N.S.W. vineyard. From the highest source we
know this story to- be untrue, as the worthy
Bishop never got the refusal. Why doesn’t he say
so publioly ?
• • *
Tambo (Q.) indulged in a hospital ball last
month, and succeeded In raklug la £4O, which
sum is to be expeaded In buying the doctor new
knives and saws and things.
Dr. and Mrs. Sydney Jones arrived from
Europe on the 14th Inst, after an abstnoe of three
years.
* e *
A rioh and lovely dress was lately worn in
London at a Court reoeption. It consisted of orepe
and satin in a beautifully soft shade of heliotrope.
The petticoat was composed entirely of the crepe
draped in beautiful lines and embellished by a
garland of Bhaded lilac placed up the left side of
the skirt between two flowing ridges of crepe,
buttonholed at tbe edges in silk matching it in
tint. The train was of the same oo’our in the
riohest satin, lined also With satin.
• * *
Queen "Victoria is trying to buy up all the
copies of a recent work entitled “ Romance of a
German Court.” It is said to be written by the
Grand Duohess Berge, a lady who is herself
“ royal,” so she thoroughly understands the hum-
bug of the whale thiDg. Referring to Prinoess
Beatrice’s marriage with young Bat, says the
lady:—" Beyond him could be espied young Serge
de Pattenpouf, who, having dissipated the little
cash his parents could give him, was over head
and ears in dent. His hope of the future remained
firm, for It rested on an intrigue, still but an
embryo in his mother's brain—an intrigue which
would some day place in the heavy lieutenant of
Hussars’ paw the red, plump, gnd gold-lined hand
of Princess Corysanae, the last daughter of the
Queen of the Orient. He and bis mamma, expeot-
ing everything from the weariness and dlsoourage-
ment felt bv the Prinoess at the continual failures
attendant on her efforts to catch some royal Prince
or other on the win?, hoped to induoe her to de-
scend as many rungs of the sooial ladder as would
plaoe her on a level with the Pattenpoufs.”
* . „
Professor Caldwell is expected to arrive in
Sydney from England about the beginning of
November, and the following month his marriage
with Miss Watt, of Eynesbury, Edgeoliffe Road,
Wooliahra, is to take plaoe.
* * *
A very significant example of the way iu
which colonials are being stroked down in Eng-
land, is the fact that 300 of them were admitted to
the Royal enclosure, at Ascot, by the request of
the Prince of Wales. Tickets for this enclosure
are usually applied for six times over (like a N.B. W.
loan), and to geticsideit is the snob's dream of
Elysium. We hope our C M.G.’s were happy, and
behaved themselves with the dignity befitting
their rank.
• * *
Mrs. Alexander has the happy knack of
being able to write a thoroughly readable novel in
one volume—that volume a small one Her latest
venture, “ Beaton’s Bargain,” is almost equal to
Tne Wooing O’t." The characters are human
and natural, and the plot is sufficiently eventtul,
without feeing sensational. Out of the host of
shilling books now in circulation, “ Beaton’s
Bargain” is oertalnly one of the best.
* * *
From a N.Y. paper:—“Dion Boucioault
and his latest wife sailed to England last ’V'edaes-
dav. When the author of The Jilt arrives at
Liverpool, he will think he has met with an earth-
quake. The original Mrs. Boucioault, all her
children. Including Dot and Nina, as well as her
son tn-law, John Clayton, have prepared a cyelone
for the venerable dramatist. Nothing but a tidal-
wave engulfing the Alaska can prevent the publi-
cation ot the gravest scandal of modern theatrical
times.”
,s . * * *
Yisoount Deerhurst, eldest son of the Bari
of Coventry, has been appointed A.D.C. to
the Victorian Governor. The Tory Imperial-
Federation conspiracy will ultimately gain littie
from the efforts of the class of “ uolljtneu” by
which Australia is at present infested.
The MODERN ARTFURNISHING
W-A. EE HOOBB
OF
ns, UWSi BEOS. 1 00,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, '
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Cluh and the New Athenoeum Club.
fJIHESE RECENTLt-ERECTED MAQNIFt OY BtTILDIfT&S HAVE BEEN FITTED
Jones, Lawson Bros , and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE,
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
The Quality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a Minimum,
as the arrangements entered into by JONES, LAWHON BROS., and CO with the Manu-
facturers of Great Britain and the Continent are of such a nature that they are enabled to offer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
ONES, LAWSON BROS., and CO. offer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at Asroai&atNGLX
Low Pkic»S, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
reason of great cost, .om enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been spec'• y fitted up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, vari s styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select;
MAN lONS FURNISHED
the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by oontrdct or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception ox intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Castlereagh-streef.
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Place.
IZORDmiIVS
ON THB
Bxlclc±L©ld. Hill.
01 STAY All COES IT IIPAETMEHT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
/(?
Cl
o
UO
a
%
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2b. lid., 3s, 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDER V AHD ! OHS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
.—Order* from tb* Country will receive Immediate and careful attention


A LONG JOURNEY.
“MAMMA, WILL YOU GO TO HEAVEN WHEN YOU DIE?”
"I HOPE SO, MY DEAR.”
“AND NURSE?”
“I HOPE SO. SHE’S A GOOD WOMAN, AND ALL GOOD PEOPLE GO TO HEAVEN.”
“THEN, PLEASE, MAY I GO TO THE DOGS WITH PAPA? HESAYS HE’S GOING THERE,
AND IT WILL BE SO MUCH NICER.”
ARTHUR MARTIN A COMPANY
(Established I 860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
3)ur Mr. M. B. GAftWOh la the (Government Auc-
tioned- fbr Brisbane.
AnV enquiry about Land, &0.. froth the Southern
felonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
MArtin &. Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
fit SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Hlir i&ajjesfy the Quean,
R.R.H. ihs Pnnce of Waies.
H.M. the Krng vov the Netherlands.
II
m
H./.M the Czar of Russia.
Agents lur m«.* *juin Wales 5
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MS39ARET STRUT, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
to All Afflicted with RiiEuiiAi’ic GbDt> tlb-
Dar.H«.Et;sri Acilirffl IriJftS ih the LlSibs,
J“ ; ; E'icfe; Hr ilicAb,
WRY siifTbr thdse Hxbriibihtiiig PAihs ivhfen ohO
Hol t l'e of
frit. s'dutiiAArs Rheumatic pills
•Sriil give instiiht Relief and Cure in a few days.
The AustrAliah Remedy. No. ch'ange in difet
titetefessArA ! Ih Bbttlbsi Is:i 2s; od.j js§i| dfaß 101.
bijRE for bright. ~,
n ,, ROska CELEBRATE 1) EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
iA agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
SSI GPor«e-Street, dtiljft;
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very host wheat procurable,
mu! at the lowest prices.
.VEuvot s debility.
aßAir*
Hebv
■itga:
TREATMENT
Dr E 0 West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
FitSi NerVous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
Caused By the Uife of alhdhol or tobacco, Wakefulness,
Meiitai Depression, Sbfteriiiig df tHfc Stain, resulting m
insanity and leading td niisery, dfefcay, arid dfeatfi, PrematUffe
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either Set, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
G 5 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
e vVe will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
' la;nt. dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
wacannotcure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C, WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Tnfallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout Sprains, Outs, Bums, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps- Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Capped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat. And all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemikts and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JCHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
FOR RENEWING PICTURE FRAMES, &c., &c.
FOR ARTISTIC DECORATION.
F
I'6 & 3 1 per bottle. Sold by Cliera'.ets, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON LIMITED), London and N vv York.
Mario Brizard I Marie Briz ard I Mario Br zardl
The safest and surest of regulating- tonics
Wolfe’s Schnapns.
FOB CONSTIPATION OR DYSPEPSIA.
A doge of Dr. Bell’s Bitters taken every right
will in a short time perform an absolute cure, it
is well to false a purgative at least onoe or twice a
month as a preventive of disease, and as the Bitters
are entirely vegetable, and are made with the
greatest cere, we know them to be the safest and
most effective purgative ever introduced to the
public. They have b9en eold in this cou .try for
oyer 50 years, snd have in that lime attained an
unnrfC'iderited popularity.
Consult Dr. Boyd, Pomeroy Chambers, 39 Castlereagh
street (upstairs), Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Regis-
tered Physician of New South Wales. Office hours : 10 a.m.
to 4 p.ffl. Paralysis, deformities, nervous, and female
diseases a speciality. Box 120 G.P.O.*
Wolfe's Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
Marie Brizard 1 Mirie Briz ird I Marie Brizard I
If troubled with business cares and over-
work, indulge in Wolfe's Schnapps.
The editor of a Moral an paper in Balt
Like is In gaol for supporting four wives, and a
3aa Francisco editor “ begs bim to inform the
profession how be supports four on one paper.’’
We >. hould think it could be easily done—that is,
“on paper.” A grrat many apparently imposiible
feats are accomplished on paper by people who
wear these stylish suit?, cut by experienced and
well-known men, at the biggest and best tailoring
establishment in Sydt ey, which, it is notreceesary
to add, is that of Summerfield and Company, 235
and 237 P.tt-street, Sydney.*
Make ita rule to drink Wolfe's Schnapps. It cre-
ates no false appetite, but has an invigorating effect.
No matter what your feeling or ailment is,
American Co.’s Hop Bitters will do you good.
Prove it and s*e
gsd
m
m
5#
i?
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Scrofula on Isecki.
SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortureß,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disecces of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, wit"
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
U> both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I'have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. CUTJCt’EA, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1 oo; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle,
Prepared ry the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
GOOD NEW 3 FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
m
DIRE#7 SUPPkr AiSOCIATIQh
is NOW o£iif at
674 GEdi'M-S'f, SYDNEY;
With the L rgest Stock of Mueiotl Instruments in
the southern Hem'sptere,
AT LONDON PRTCSS, 50 per cent. less than
Sydney prices,
Direct frem the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/«, S/0, 1/6, 9/0. 12/0. *7/0, 21/-. *5/. SO/.
4 5/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Arglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
o
AGCOROEONB
specialty : The miniature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto; oak. Vldtft steel notes, 42/-.
10/0. 15/- 20'- 25/-, 30/-, to ©2O.
Bpeciaty: Old, Copy Violin, wit l ) bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS,
40/-, SO/-, IS/- 103/-. 130/-
to 46*8.
Specialties : The new “ Levy ” model,
with hey £5 5 0
The new " Keynoldd” model,
with double water k y .. 9 10 0
The rew “iitynoßs Edo-
attachment Ccun.t .. 12 10 0
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Conceit Flu v e,
with slide-bean, 1 case, by
best English maker
-
n\
THE SYMPHOHEITEI
In nickel silver, with s'x tunes, 3CV-.
Extra tuzes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “Walter Howard” Americaa Nickel BsdJo.
£3 3%
rgy- Brass and Drum and F.fe Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums. GuPars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jtv’sfattiHOmi
MUSTC! MU-'IC 1 I MUSIC! I!
200 000 Cnoii-s New and Popular Music, published
’ ai 3 ,4 <, and 53 , sold a. 91. per copy.
ffa V. ORTH OF
&0 MUSIC FOR
All instruments careful, acked and forwarded
to any part of the nies.
LOUIS SISBOHBEN,
MA.WA.QSB>


ALL IN THE WAY OF BUSINESS.
MB. DE QUIZZER: “PARDON ME, MRS. ROSENSTEIN, BUT I CANNOT HELP EXPRESS-
ING MY ADMIRATION OF YOUR BEAUTIFUL DIAMONDS”
MRS. ROSENTEIN (Rosenstein is a pawnbroker): "YOU DINK THEM FINE, EH? ACH. BUT
DESE ARE NODING TO DEM DIAMONTS MR. ROSENSTEIN IS GOING TO GIF ME
WHEN DER DIOKET RUNS OUT I”
PAUL LIEBE
Recommended
m
Richly
BY THE MEDICAL
jpACULTY
V ERV
’NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED.ATALLCHEMISTS IN
lOS* 20ozBQTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIOCtS T
mm
m
ROWLANDS' ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUXONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet nowder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
Inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D., F.C.S., &o. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be aIBO had in a golden colour, whioh is especially
suites for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
article*, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
B. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D R RI DOE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a sup ply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and exper’enced laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 9d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spr.rious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTSRFIELD, Chemist, 141 KUzabSth
Street, Redfern.
Linen G-loss
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth ccb-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they oan be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of praotloai ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
lmm ediate relief.
434 GE RGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE]
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
AtSAjrj*, OitKXAIN, & SPEEDY CURB lor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Lose of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonic and soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S CONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour tg the whole system,
i 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere. Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney, N. S. W. ;
London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
A Blessing In every Family.
Holloways pills and ointment.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
■ nines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at onoe recognised.
' Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
1 Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeord-bt., London.
t3T Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Cararick’s Cod Liver Oi
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
D iseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., (fee.
It will produce an immediate gain iu flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil ar > refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
T 1 makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
Jr ai ~.,°il 0r an y Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
■both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most loerfect Emulsion ever
made and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophospbites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., L!M., LONDON.
Marie Brizard I Marie Brlzard I Marie Brizard I
The wonderful cordial, Wolfe’s Schnapps, will
drive away all physical ailments.
Remember American Co.’s Hop Bitters
never does harm but good, to the smallest child,
always and continually, and read
S’-' Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against all diseases.
Now they say that the s*ing of a bee will
cure rheumatism. It certainly has a tendency to
make a man forget rheumatism for a time Under
the Impression of an A 1 bee in good working order
men have been known to howl for death, but their
wives always howl to be taken to Summerfield and
Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and
237, Pitt-street, Sydney, to buy the boys the cele-
brated wear-resisting suits at half a guinea, all of
which are specially manufactured by their London
House.*
Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard I
The system is strengthened and the nerves toned
by theuse of Wolfe's Schnapps.
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
THE VERY MiN.
Yes, I am in need of a reporter,” said a Sydney
editor, leobing to a man who had entered the
office nd applied for a position; "but I waDt a
startling sensation wr ter, a man woo can make
news. In other words, I want a man who is not
afraid to tell a lie.” ”1 think lam the man.
“ That may be, but you must understand they are
plausable lies I want written, those that have
every phase of the truth.’ *'l still say that 1 am
the man.” “Have you ever done much news-
paoer work?” “No” “ Then how do you know
you can write plausable lies?” “Because I have
written articles in opposition to the famous Bt.
Louis Laver Beer.” “Did the public believe
them;” “Ithinkso.” “ But you are not certain?”
“ No.” “ Then you are not the man I want.”
Have you lost your appetite? Then take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes 811 hints of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts Acts »s agent generally
Letters written. The most absolute fecrecy ob-
served. Note the address ;—313 George-street,
second floor.*
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, ofthesolids of milk (digested)
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD’’ is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use, being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BYALL CHEMISTS. g
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
Few people are aware of the alarming 1 prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. Itns declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country aie -itlier directly or indirCvtii the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some soft.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on the increase I’f-w
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and t:ius these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Ipcon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, Ike., are among tire many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defj’tng the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no symptsms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of
class of disorders.
it cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold, by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medu
cines.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
lor medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGEXTS FOR
New South Wales and Queensland.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
nre the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only by the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
vV
*tts
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has -
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. Gd. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,-
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist-
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
_£>lo,ooo. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON- ■
SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,.
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at .
10s. each, to be divided as follows :—The Highest -
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each:
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes afc
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
M
ONUM E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
.1. « I N\I\<„IIAM,
Margaret-street, Wynward square, Sydney.
r ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
1 surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
! fragrance.
Three Gold Me a is—
PARIS.I67B, CALCUTTA,IBB4,
1 for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CY-MBIDIinW!
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
| registered can be obtained only of the
; Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S
\ CELEBRATED EATJ DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and delightlul
odour. It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine pertume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,'
24, Old Rond Street, London.
v Trade Mark—‘‘White Rose" on “ Golden /
fee Lyre." A
"VfERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY an
STRENGTH. —A Gentleman, having triedia
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to sufferers, on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address—“ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney,


THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Am«er of Bokhara is dead. He spent
most of his property 1o fightlDsr Russia, but had
to in, aod left nothing excent an old umbrella
and 280 wives .. At O' Donovan Rossa’s recent mass
meeting of Fenians only one person attended—
viz , Rossa himself. The American authorities
have proof that Rossa Is all talk, and that the dv.
namiters are utterly unconnected with this much-
aavert.ised whisky-seller The Prince of Wales,
who is in training for the billet of Defender of the
Faith, gives most enjoyable Sunday-evening- musi-
cal parlies and conjuring cbaioo«. The Queen,
who always remembers tne Sawbath day to keep
it miserable, is said to be mueta annoyed ...Lord
Halsbury, the new Chancellor, sneaking on Im-
perial Federation, says that it is impossible to bind
the colonies •‘closer to the Empire than they are at
present.” Some good has come out of Nazareth
Holloway, of pi 1 fame, left his benefactions to
the midale-cla 8 instead of to the poor. At the
College for Women, endowed by him, girls
whose parents are prepared to pay £lfo a year for
their no rd and education can enjoy privileges
that have been estimated at £5OO J. M'Neill
Whistler, a shining light of the Burne Jones school
of painting, has been elected president of the
British Artists' Society. This is wormwood for J
Ruskin Oa the Darwinian iheory Mr. Ruskin
w.ites to the Pali. Mall:—“ When I see a girl
dance, I thank Heaven that made her cheerful as
well as graceful; and neither envy the scierC9 nor
sentiment of my Darwinian friend, who sera in
her a cross between a dodo and a daddy-long legs.”
Some London genius, who should be tied up
and left to howl in the back-yard, has started a
paper called the Pet Dogs' Gaz tte, illustrated
with the portraits of wheezy so-miels and over-fed
pug*. There is no Starving Children's
Gazette io London, as sassiery prefers spend-
ing its money on mange and hydrophobia ...
Having rid herself of her Princes, France wa ts
to further emphasise he’’ Republicanism by
abolishing all s ‘ noble ” t itles. There is nothing
like making a e'ean sweep while you are about it.
... A reminiscence of Hobart Pasha. At a wed-
ding breakfast he propos d the bride’s health
“He hoped she would be at least as happy as a
Turk’s wife, and everyone knew that the Turks
were the best husbands in the world ” Prince
Henry of Battenberg. the Queen's latest son-in-
law, is described as “ ihe most ornamental laokey
H.M has ever had ” The favourite beverage of
the mad king of Bavaria was a mixture of white
wine a"d champagne, prepared in a bowl with a
thick layerof fresh, strong-scented violets floating
on the top. This luxurious compound cost £lO
daily ..The Eaiser Wilhelm has beer. 79 years a
soldier He joined the army as ensigt- m 1807...
36M millions sterling have already boa raised arid
practically ex ended usnn the Panama Canal.
Da Lesseps now asks for 24 millions more, making
a total of 60M millions. The Canal will thus cost
£1350 OCO per mil , or six and a half times as much
as tne outz Canal The Princess of Wales now
goes about in acl sed carriage, being too weak to
COutinuously bow to her many sincere admirers.
The bands of the clock of London Parliament
House weigh 1001 b. each...At Aberdeen (Scotland),
a woman —not a girl—has got £5OO damages, be-
cause a m m who was engaged to her for 39 years
hss backed out... Capt Webb's widow has been
engaged by a Niagara hotelkeeper to stand op-
posite the place where her husband was drowned
and sell photographs of deceased O Kelly, M.P ,
charges Chamberlain w ih having, in a fashionab e
drawing-ro >m, described Mr. Gladstone in lan
guage * u fit for publication ” In May last, 17
per cent of the British troops at Assouan died—
most ly o neat apuyl< xy —” My frleuds,” said the
president of ihe brickmakers’f oeiety as they be
wailed the sudden death of their treasurer, ‘ I
looked out once oq the beauties of nater, and ail
was c-a- a-alm. Our deceased friend here was
layin’ a brick. I looked out once more; still an
was c-a-a-alm, but our deceased friend was no
more. He was layin a cawpsi-1 ”
Marie Brizaidl Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard!
All diseases requiring invigorative treat-
ment are cured by Wolfe's Schnapps.
Premier bail-room deoorators of New
South Wales Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 60V6 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Marie Brizard I Marie Brizard I Marie Brizard!
Bodily irregularities and weakness can be
remedied by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
fg
Wholesale manufac"tu.rS^B|
rcmizmmJrmm
JANES
mmm
Steais works,Kent s t near Erskine ST j
Ccdkai iwv s£wvO, '
■fa |
CiWMTHY A&HiPPIf<C OftpetS fhQMFJjYATWUI^
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely-
furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
Mr. Jas. MacMahon (MacMahon and Leiteh)
says “ The Hall is admirably appointed ;is a
model of neatness and cleanliness, and we have
experienced less trouble in staging our plays
(‘Silver King,’ ‘Lights o’London,’&c.) than in
any other place since we left Brisbane.”
For terms —Apply,
THE SECRETARY,
School of Arts.
THE ORICINAL
0 P^ LY
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR. I
HI CHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
P R I Z E M ED AL
Manufactured b yJam e s Channon
lv Harbour S T Sydney <
Sold by All Crocersand storekeepers
“BOOKS.”
“ BOOKS.” Any Book You Want.
ANGUS &. ROBEETSON,
112 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent by
mail to any part of Australia.
Aoidy
BY THE PROPRIETOR,
&
SAVLIf €Yt
BE
m
TOOTH, PASTi
bb/f
ffociu/tsi/i/c p/tope/ims.
T.B.MELHUISH, Pharmaceutical Chemist
1 134 Will/am ST f SYD Af £Y_ym a
«l w
: v
\ x v
SI
L
u
k
/
/ tc\
M
Ci.
m
'At
-T
f
.4
:j^\
//
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital * - * * £35,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
• the largest in Australasia.
Directors:
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lenon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
flgjF Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &c., of all
descriptions covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
(g“ Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
35V
/ /
i;
-A
y*
m
®8
V.
Ag^-agj
If you’d like to know the way its done,
.Buy a set and share the fun ;
Charming pictures, fresh and new,
The dog may take them, so may you.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
send tor] 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, [Catalogues.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
SAUC
s«VMiu*»i!2s
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
:without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA a?id PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, I. on don, Src., &r“c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
sdf
The "LOUIS”
1 VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS’' VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
Hhe name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
1 send patterns
POST FREE on fl
application.
HD
gsd
4 GUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meersobatim and
Fire-proof Briars. Bepafrs, Sco.
8. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakex,
1 Liltle Colllns-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
J. MURPHY’S
Cootral Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this city.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at ■ ates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
aouEt Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
HSirstolass Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
IHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
T
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH Is. STREET,
Near Market-street.
GUINNESS’ EXTRA BTOTJT.
QUALITY.
FIRST
ligi
Biii s , 11 :
L®«01
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS TN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.


AN OBVIOUB ABSURDITY.
MR. ATTORNEY-GENERAL WANT (loq.): “A SOLICITOR OF THE SUPREME COURT
ROB A CLIENT OF TWO GUINEAS AS YOUR HONOR WELL KNOWS, WE NEVER
DESCEND TO SUCH TRIVIALITIES.”
The troubles of an Australian editress.
The lady whri runs a certain N 8 W journal had
the following notioe posted outside her effioe the
other day:—” We are sorry to say the paper will
not appear this week. The reason of this unde-
sirable state of affairs is a drunken compositor.
Will re-appear next Saturday as usual. (Signed)
Proprietor.”
Marie Brizirdl Marie Brlzard I Marie Brlzard!
Wolfe's Schnapps , the purest, safest, and
best article ol its kind in use.
DISFIGURING HUMORS,
humiliation eruption Itching and burning tortures,
salt rheum, ei;z ma, psomsts, barber's itoh, sore
eyes, soall head, dandruff, infantile or birth
humors, and every species of itching, scaly,
pimply, scrofulous and oapper-oolored diseases,
of the skin and scalp, with loss of hair, are posi-
tively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent inter-
nally, and CxmoußA and Cuticuka Boap ex-
ternally, when ail other methods tail
As an antidote to the oonsequenoe of late
hours Wolfe’s Schnapps stands preeminent.
Marie Brizard! Marie Brlzard 1 Marie Biizard I
At the Jbanoera Tournament the attractive
uniforms and the beautiful movements caused
us to feel how blessed were we in tbe possession
of sight, and what an unfortunate thing must the
loss of it be. Conservatories, dinner tables, Draw-
ing rooms and ball rooms, might be beautified
with the best productions of tbe globe, and to the
blind It would be no more than a blank. Vain
would be the efforts of the artists who with world-
famed reputations are employed in decorating
goods like those at Brayß, bf 40S and 404 George-
street There novelties Ih glass and ohinaabound,
and they are ever ready for Inspection visits.*
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s
Sohnapps.
Mr. Nebuchadnezz ir Coonan has been
turned out to grass for six months.
Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl
Wolfe's Schnapps has often been pirated,
but has never had a rival.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney's Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, whioh is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Maria Brizardl M»ri« Brizardl JMarie Br zatdl
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive of health.
Just 29 years age, a thrill of horror went
through the land, for on Friday, August 30,1857,
the good ship Dunbar struck on the South Bead,
and all od board, save one—Johnson, of the New-
castle Life Boat Service—sank to weir watery
graves.
“ A brave vessel,
Who had some noble creatures in her,
Dash’d all to pleoes.”
—Tbmpbst.
Something upon whioh we can rely—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl Marie Bilzard I
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
A oute youth at Rockhampton (Q.) orawled
under the oauvas of a circus tent, witnessed half
the performance, and then came out at the in-
terval, getting a ticket as he passed to re-admit
him. He sold the pasteboard for ninepence, and
then crawled in once more and saw the rest of the
show. That boy will die a K.C.M.G
Thousands of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
POBIBT BUTOIBB b 0,0 •
** (Late William Long).
f/T WINS AND SPIRIT MERCHANT
(84 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THS TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
RAW VA SELINE.
T»
TIORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inehes ;
(i f? assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Snruii m ? n ' s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
dlers Ironmongery, &c.
w BLACKBURN & CO.,
HOLESALE saddlers, and saddlers
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
T~ *
lwv»amf. w SCCTTH WALs-'S PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED.,
AUo» t * CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
' **ed *25529*1* foll °WPS EVEN PER CENT on
s. n 'UJPw*i t^I or 13 months; FIVE PER CENT.
l for shorter periods: FIVE PER
®Wmoh OpfST2L? 0 pfST2L? from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
• -Payable on Demand. Offioes, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager, 1
Listen to Your Wife.
The Manchester Guardian, June ,Bth, 1883, says :
At one of the
“Windows
Looking on the woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons and great masses of May
blossoms ! ! 1 * There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “ Cotton spinner,”
but was noW so
Paralyzed ! 1 !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to my case.
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“Locomoter Ataxy”
(A paralytic disease of nerve fibre rarely ever cured)
and was for several years barely able to get about,
And for the last. Five years not able to attend to
my business, although
Many things have been done for me.
, The last experiment being nerve stretching.
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home for Incurables 1 Near Manchester, in May,
1882.
lam no “Advocate” I “For anything in the
shape of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many .abjections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to tivy Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her—
Consented ! ! -
I had not quite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come over me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. On Sunday morning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, “ I was sure
I could
“ Walk !
So started across the floor and back.
I hardly knew how to oontain myself. I was all over the
house. lam gaining strength each day, and can walk quite
safe without any
"Stick 1”
Or Support.
I am now at my own house, and hope soon to be able to
©am my own living again. I have been a member of the
Manchester
" Royal Exchange
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily congratulated
on going in the room on Thursday last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24,1883.
Two yearß later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers ! !
If when you call for American Hop Bitters {see green twig
0/ Mops on the white label and Dr. Souk's name blown in the
bottle), the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money-for anything lese indict him
ter the fraud and sue liimaor damages for the swindle, aud
»\ will you liberally for the wnvlctio*.
Never Travel Without It;
Wanted in Every Hons©.
fg
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS!
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS^
;
FLEAS. FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES-I
COCKROACHES.VW‘ AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTH ER
ANIMALS “ '
MS
.I^*l
sdf
SOLD
||* r| NTINS
■n UPWARDS
CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE J
FELTON-GRIMWADE/W.C?
- MELBOURNE I
Wanted in Every House
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WUNDEKFUL MEDICINE.
; ;
BEECHAM’3 PULS
PATENT
PILLS.
.Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pa n
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,distu rbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of casesi Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them, carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and. bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS.for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the syste-m. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
Strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
longrlast complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; . and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous oomplaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints .give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent' Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution-.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s'Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lfd-. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Golonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
Jilts, Lawson k, b Co.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ICONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNCJT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding y low Price ot £5 15s
SIDE BOARDS and LEATHER i-UITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRALY
1 H A DINiNG-ROOM.
THE DRAWING-ROOM
BLACK AND B AS3 BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
mm, LAWBON~ BROS., If 00.
39 CASTLERFAGH STREET,
ITiREE B POST, for six penny stamps, a
JLj Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &g. , without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
Wi
VINIHHL
LIMITED,
356 @e®p@@-stroat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BUST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co
SSO ®*or*e-street, Sydney,
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
9 K Ann VOLUMES New and Secondhand
VtljvUl/ Books always on view at
WILLIAM LYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
WILLIAM BULLARDS GREAT SALE OP
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Yases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 Der cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr sic at
the old prices can now he had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c,
Orchestral and Braes Band M usic, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS ci mprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and gir s; Nautical
orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &3 ; ana a choice library of Reli-
gious *ork«i, by standard authors
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries. Yases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
and Tea Trays
PHOTO ALBUMS in Pluth, Morocco, Leather,
nd Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully iow prices
; CC- 'UNT BO"KS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Pr s Copying Books in--very style and bind-
ing. or made t,o order
LETTbR PaPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sycney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of e very kind ~i d description
ARTISTS materials-Solid Sketch Blocks,
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Atathematica.
Instruments, &o.
Mueic Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forv arded on receipt of money order cr
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD.
842 GEORGE STREET.


Personal
Items
They now oall him “ Gone Coon-an.”
Mr. Edward Ellis, late editor of the Globe,
has, we hear, become proprietor of the Sydney
Sunday Times.
“Dirty Diok,” and “Lazy
Billy," are three aboriginals on the "saved” list
of the Harmy at Grafton. Just think of sitting
down in HeaVen alongside “ Lazy Billy 1 ”
The gold-repeater watch worn by Nelson
at Trafalgar, is now in the poo set of a “distin-
guished” Anglo-Australian. He bought it as an
•‘ad.’* which THb Bulletin isn't going so give
him.
Sir Henry Parkes has been lecturing on
the “ Companionship of Books.” This, we sup-
pose, is in view of an early opportunity for plenty
of leisure to enjoy that unwished-for felicity him-
self.
Bailey says Mr. Isaiah Cohen’s latest novel
"will sooner or later be found in all colonial
households.” indeed I So we are at last to meet
the butcher who wraps pork sausages in the pages
of an octavo volume. #
We hear that Mr. Mudgee Taylor, M.L. A.,
is making use of his leisure, and writing a history of
his journey to England and how hb beat the
N.S.W. Speaker. It should be good reading. The
volume will appear shortly.
The Maryborough (Q.) Chronicle, writing
on the amount of sycophancy lavished by the B.M
Herald and Sydneyites generally on Lord Caring-
ton, says:—" They will kill that poor Governor yet
with their mealy-mouthed lick-spittling."
Alderman Mitchell, of the Glebe, Sydney,
is an Israelite and a Protectionist. Last week,
while addressing a Proteotionist meeting in Glebe
Town Hall, he said, “ England is a Freetrade
country, and who are the richest people there ? ”
"The Jews! ’ screamed a hundred voices.
Advt. from London Daily Telegraph of
July 2 "Davies.-On the2Bth June at6,Corn-
waii-mausio'iH, Cura wall-gardens, SW., the wife
of Mr. M H. Davies, M L A., member of the Go-
vernment of Victoria, ot a son ” Which is a fair
example of how absurdly the average colonial
magnate loses his head when he gets to L indon.
The wily treasurer of a certain church up
South has had em ou toast for £BOO. However,
"religion must not be disgrace!,” ao the amount
has been made good, the wily one continues to
flourish like a green bay-tree and the fasoinatiog
clergyman now has the front to ask his sheep to
subs sribe the amount all over again. The way of
Ingressor isn’t so very hard after all—unless
les before Judge Docker,
eral M‘iver, whose favourite amuse-
>as been to turn whole armies to rout single-
3, each time bearing off 15 flags to adorn
gwam, is last reported as oarrying his vic-
s arms into Western New Guinea. The
native population have taken to their canoes,
is believed the General intends to clear the
ot all whites, mount the highest hill, and
himself Emperor of the South.
»ther sprig of the notorious Aylesford
has been distinguishing himself in the
of London. Young Mr. Finoh, the gentle-
l question, went into a chemist shoo, armed
, revolver He came out armed with the
iox. Meanwhile somebody had shot the
st. Young Finch says it was an accident,
ihemist says nothing abiut the affair, be-
he is dead. Twelve good men and true will
aeir opinion upon Mr. Finch s eccentric be-
ur.
Melbourne, recently, John Gahan,
riy a soiicttor in extensive practice, ap-
-1 on a charge of vagrancy. A few years
s was one of the leading lawyers of the city;
e ap<>. ared as an old brokea-down man with
:rey hair and tangled beard, clad in wretched
and wearing dilapidated boots that left his
sxposed. He had t ;keu to drink aod was
y destitute Tne mag-strate, who hardly
what to do with the wretched spectre before
it length sent him to gaol tor a year,
y Lord Cairns, who threw over Miss
scue, and paid £lO.OOO for the frolic, has been
with his own petard Miss Grant, la belle
tcaine nas thrown him over. Cairns corn-
id mat Miss G showed her teeth too much at
her to lows in toe Ascot royal enclosure. He
, “ was I’tthething. yerknow—woulda’t stand
|ov. awl’ The giri just shrugged her alabaster
aers, at d told Cairns to take up his crutch
ootapick, and walk This, to >, when ths
ing day was fixed, the trousseau bought, the
is’ lamps trimmed, and everything prepared
in detect tne hand of Providence in all this
s had previou ly dared to trifle witn the af-
>ns of the daughter of an “illustrious” and
i-gilded Australian, wno condescends to live
thousand miles from Grosvenor-rquare.
e “Rev.” Peter Campbell has not yet
thoroughly snuffed out. No mau ever is
eci out who has s ) colossal a cheek. Peter is
iuelug the AGE for £lOOO iihel damages. " If
1 'syme dorse t enter an appearance, ’ says
•, " ho win have to pay." Very likely David
ippear -it is a way he has got. Peter, from
u we get all tuis information direct, also
>s that ne himself (not David Syme) “has re
y been, and still is. busily engaged in literary
. He is writing a short sentimental comedy
ected with Napoleon the First’s private and
■Stic life. He is also writing some comic and
mental songs on strictly colonial topics. He
ilready finished one or two short farcical
3 trifles. All these are intended to be brought
ard ou the stage.” James Cassius Williamson,
ou listening ?
snry Kendall, theN.B.W. poet, who in
prime wrote such beautiful things as “The
rand the Hill,’ " Leichhardt,” and” Araluen,”
who in his latter days sent forth, as many
her bard has done, some sad rubbish which,
istice to bis genius, should be carefully torn
s at last really to have a monument. He has
i dead more than three or four years, and the
tees have been able to collect enough money,
£3O or so, to put up a slab to the memory of
sweet singer, whose last resting-place has so
)een adorned by naught but the orange-peel
sardine-tins left by lovers who came there to
ic and “catch, perchance, some inspiration
l ni3 temb.” Kendall’s body is to be removed
aother spot lu Waverley (Sydney) Cemetery,
tne monument Is to stand over It. Mr. Dailey
, no doubt, have a neat and appropriate little
ion for the occasion, and as Baron CarlDgton
be present (surrounded, of course, by a large
ibsr of popularity-hunting political b»ra of
i). the balance required, and more, will, pro-
y. b p.auaed ou tne stone by the usual sec of
rollers*
n Hong, Cbinaman, recently buried at
aO«ia, c»d com; consequently he was much
>ectt d, aua his noouurea corpse was followed
tne grave by mmy local residents. As i • is
tdtnatihe Church of England burial-service
, ie»dbyawci o clergyman uv r *b H..og s
lams, wc conclude that tne lamented Mongolian
tleman was of the Anglican persuasion. How-
r, there appear to have been one or two cere-
ales ia connection with the “ planting” of Ah
og which we understand to be distinctly non-
*iican. For instance, a sovereign was placed in
dead Chinaman’s mouth, and the poor clay -
clay, let us hope—of Ah Hong was attired in
two suits of clothes and sent off. bridal fashion,
with a shower of rice. The question thus arises,
what was Ah Hon* ? Was he ao ordinary heatoen
r a member vf the Church of Kogland? It the
litter, the sovereign, clothes, and rice business
was ciearly superfluous; it the rortner, then we
are entitled to argue that the C of K burial-
service was wrongfully read over a wau e>efl
pag*n. However, we congratulate the Anglican
<1 rgy on their growing liberality, and we antici-
pate with much pleasure the fast approaching time
when Primate Barry will officially order that a
sucking-pig, two stoleD fowls, and* plenty blandy
he placed, in conformity wito the directions oi
Confucius, on the grave.of every defunct church-
warden.
The contempt expressed for Graham Berry
in the hour of his knighthood is not lessened, now
that the true story of the ex-demagogue b degra
dation is to hand. The modest old gentleman told
his toadies that he “ felt it impossible to refuse
the honour ” because it was conferred unex-
pectedly ” and for “ valuable services in connec-
tion with the Exhibition.” The explanation is a
o umsy attempt to mollify old adherents. Every-
one interested knows that Graham s services at
Kensington were nil, as he never arrived in Lon-
pon till the Yiotorian Commissioner had completed
the work. Why even his personal application to
be inoluded on the commission was curtly refused.
And to say that the bauble was unexpected was a
piece of unparalleled effrontery. The removal of
Mr. Murray Smith from the Agent-Generalsbip in
favour of Graham Berry was a carefully-planned
job, foreshadowed when the salary hanging to the
office was increased by £5OO. One poor excuse has
the Yiotorian political Judas for his crime. The
first notification of the title arrived in tbe form of
a congratulatory telegram to Mrs. Berry. Now,
when a delighted wife flings her arms round a
husband’s necfc, and calls him a “ dear old man,
he may fairly protest that he .is yielding to pres-
sure. The present Lady Berry experienced no
qualms of conscience on reading tnat telegram.
She never o ried, ” Pack off the Governor. Au
contrarie, the Agent-Geaeraless went to London,
armed with letters of recommendation from dear
Lady Loch. There now I
The following figures, obtained from
official sources, and published in a pamphlet en-
titled “Tne Bishops and their Wealth.’ by the
Rev. Meroer Davies, M.A., afford a bitter satire on
the “ Christianity ” of the ” swells” of the Anglican
Church. From the year 1856 to the.olose of 1885, <l9
Anglican bishops died in England. On an ayrrage,
each left behind him a fortune of about £74,000, or
a total of over two millions for the 39, exclusive
of any real estate they may have possessed, and
exclusive also of any sums of money Invested in
policies of life assurance, that may have been
Bettled for thebenedt of their lamilles. Here is
the list:—Hon. Hugh Percy: See, Carlisle; died,
1858; years, 29; nominal Income, £4500; personalty,
£90,000. James H Monk: See, G. and B.; died,
1856; year*. 26; nominal income, £5000; person-
alty. £140,000. C J. Bloomfield: See, Chester. Lon-
don; died, 1857; years, 32; nominal Inoome, £10,000;
personalty, £6O 000 Cnarles Bethel: See. Bangor;
died 1859; vears. 35; nominal income, £40oO; per-
s malty, £2O 000 Ed varl Maltby: See, Colchester,
Durham; aied, 1859; years, 28; nominal Inoome,
£8000; ersonalty, £l2O 000. Ge'-ge Murray;
See. Rochester; died, 1860; years, 47; nominal lu-
o ime, £5000; personalty, £BO,OOO. Thomas Mus-
grave: See, Heresford, died, 1860; years,
23; nominal income £lO 000 personalty £70,000
Henry Fenya: See, Wore sr.er; died, 1860; v> arw,
20; nominal income, £5000; ptrsnnalty, £5O 000,
Hon. H M. Vllliers: See, Durham; died, 1861;
years, 5 : nominal Income, £8000; personally,
£20,000 J. B. Sumner: See, Chester, Canterbury;
died, 1862; years, 34; nomiaal income, £l5 000; per-
sonalty, £60.000. Thomas Turton: See, Ely; died,
1864; years, 19; nominal income. £5500; personalty,
£40,000; George Davys: See, Peterborough; died,
1861; years, 25; nominal inoome, £1500; person-
alty, £BO,OOO John Graham: See, Cbeßter; died,
1865: years, 17; nominal inoome £4500; personalty,
£lB,OOO. J. C Wlgram; See, Rocne«?er; died, 1867;
years, 7: nominal inoome, £5000; personalty,
£45,000 John Lonsdale: See, L’chtleld; died, 1867;
years, 24; nominal income, £4500; personalty.
£9O 000 Samuel Hinds: See. N .rwioh; died, 1868;
ye-rs, 8; nominal income, £4SUO; p rsonalty, ;
R. D Hampden: eee, Hereforu; aled, 1868; yen-s,
28; nomiaal income, £4200; personalty, £45 000
Francis Jeune: See, Peterborough; dted, 1868;
y»ar«, 4 ; nomiaal income, £4500 ; personalty,
£35,000. C. T. Longley: See, Rip, Canterbury;
ut< o, 1868; years 32; nominal moome. £l5 000;
personally, £45 000 W. K. Hamilton: S*e, Salis-
hur« ; died, 1889; years 15; nominal income.
£5OOO : personal v. £14,000 H. Pniipotts: See,
« -ter; died, 1869; years, 38; nominal income,
£5000; pers >naltv. £6O 0 0 H 8. Waldegrave:
8-«. oariiB<e; dien, 1869; years. 9; nominal income,
£4500; personalty £iu,ooo. J. P. Lee: Sep, Man-
on enter ; cied, 1889; years. 21 ; nominal in-
come, £4200 ; personalty, £40.000 A T. Gil-
bert: See, Cnichester ; died, 1870 ; years. 28;
nominal income, £4203 ; hersonaity. £l2 000
Lord Auckland: See, B. and w.; died, 1870; years,
22; nominal income, £5000: personalty, £120,000
T. V. Sbort: Bee, Bt. Asaph; died, 1872: years, 29;
nominal iocome, £4200; personalty, £14.000. S.
Wilberforoe: See, Oxford, Winch;<died, 1873; years,
*8; nominal income, £7000; personalty. £6O 000.
C. R. Sumner: See, Wlncne-ter; died, 1874; years,
43; nominal Inoome, £lO 000, personalty. £BO,OOO.
Con. Thin wall: See, St. David’s; died. 1875; y-ara,
34; nominal income, £4500; personalty, £16,000
G A. Selwyn: See, New Zealand Lichfield; died,
1878; years, 37; nominal income, £4500; personalty,
£16,000. Cnarles Baring: See, G. aud 8., Durham;
dieo, 1879 ; yeors 23; nominal income, £BOOO.
personalty, £120.000 A. C. Tait: See, London,
Cantet burv; aied, 1882; years, 26; nominal in-
come, £15,000 ; personalty. £35,000. Alfred
OUvant : See, Llandaff ; died, 1882 ; years,
33; nominal Income. £4200; personalty. £io 000
Robert Blckereteith; tee ttlpon; died, 1884; y*> r*.
27: nominal income, £4500; personalty. £25,000.
W. Jacobson: See, Chester; died, 1884: years, 19;
nominal Income, £4500: oersonalty, £65.000. John
Jacfeson: See, Lincoln. London; died, 1885; years,
3;; nomiaal income, £lO,OOO ; personal!*, £72,000.
O. Wordsworth: See, Unooln; died, 1885; yea s.
17; nominal income, £?<000; personalty. £B5 000.
George Moberiy: See, Salisbury; died, 1885; years,
16; nominal inoome, £5OOO ; personalty, £29,000.
Jas. Fraser: See, Manchester; died,lBBs; years, 16;
nominal income, £4200; personalty, £85,000. J. R.
Woodford: See, Ely; died. 1885; years, 12; nominal
income, £5500; personalty, £19,000.
The Wallsend and Plattsburg (N.B. W.)Stjn
starts a leading-artiole-in every way worthy of
the subject—on the town band, thus:— ‘ The resi-
dents of Wallsend and PJattsburg are now brought
face to face with the existence or non-existence of
a town band.”
At Mittagong (N.8.W.), Arthur Corrie has
been sent up for three months for fooling round
with a revolver. For the defence, his sister swore
that he us 3d the weapon only for shooting wal-
labies, being in the habit of chasing these animals
on a bicyole. Corrie’slast difficulty was a £3O fine
for not hitting some one of his own size, or, as it
was generally termed, for a brutal assault oh a
child.
The Melbourne Herald has been re-
moved from a pig-stye into a palace. There is no
mistake about this assertion. The ‘‘offioe’ in
was probably the dirtiest in the
wide world. But they have changed all that.
The new office is as sweet as the old was
sour—as cle*n as the other was foul. Every
thing is epic and span. The festive dun is
not allowed to harass the literary men up
s airs Toe fiendish boys who, under the old regi me,
rendered life not worth living to the reporters, nave
been banished from the realms of thought hdq
criticism. Clean linen is now the rule— en regjU
ai Winter outs It. There is a decent sobriety
about the new offices which awes and subdues the
three halfpenny a liner. Naturally the journal
itself is coloured by this tefor n. It is now
eminently decent. A dead level of propriety
marks its literature. Even the slap-dash sabreur
who writes the leaders has modified his ‘‘ swank,"
and an attempt has been made to substitute intel-
ligibility for gibberish. Altogether the Herald
has gone through the mysterious process among
Evangelists as “ new birth.”
[?]RIEF HEN[?]ON.
A Sydney bank has Just squared a big em-
bezzlement
Lawyer Coonan has been suspended. Poli-
tician Coonan stilt praotiscs.
For every person who goes to church on
Sunday in Sydney, 10 go to the theatre during the
week.
Judge Dooker says that in N.S.W. the
Judges “have no discretion.’’ That’s what the
public say.
Two Redfern oabbiea quarrelled and had a
“ slanging" match last week. After half an hour s
vigorous “jaw” one called the other a Ooonan.
That was the climax.
A deaf and dumb man has been brought
up at Port Melbourne for using threatening
language. After this we shall not be surprised to
hear of a Port Melbourne corpse getting a montn
for being drunk and disorderly, and destroying a
policeman’s uniform.
Quaint Advertisement from Goulburn
(N.S.W.) Pknnt Post:— “Housekeeper wanted.
Must be a good, steady, and industrious 'woman ,
and I agree that should she fall sick in my employ
to wait on her, and should I fall sick she Is to wait
on me, and there will be a good home for a steady
woman all her life. No drunkard need apply*
John Noble, Gunning.”
The IRISH AND AUSTRALIAN WORLD issues
to Its readers one of the most comprehensive invl- ,
tations on record. It requests them to correspond
freely “on any subject they like,”-which we
snouid think oovers the whole ground from Noan
down to oats, and adds, “ The more that public
abuses and scandals are aired In our oolumns, tne
better tor all.” All the lawyers, we suppose.
From the Tribune (Sydney)“ The Duk '
of Cam bridge made an official inspection on Wed-
nesday of the Colonial and Indian volunteers
present at Wimbledon, and spoke to a New Bout n
wales man who had on a Soudan medal. The
correspondent forgot to add that the olabuner
winked at a gal, hooked on to a 0.M.G., an i
punched an Adelaide dowager in the ribs, Main ?
how many cousins she had in Dry Creek gaoll
A man named Bennefc is in trouble at Mel-
bourne through selling a “ patent beer-extractor
to whiob he; represented he had the solo right in
N.B. W. and N.Z. It is difficult to guess what this
toing can have been. The only beer-extractor
that ever came uader our notice was in tne pci*
session of an inebriated Queensland surgeon, and
in answer to a question, he defined the article at a
“ pomaoh stump.” Probably this is it.
The following notice is posted up in a lead-
ing Goondiwindi “ hash house t— The rules of
this house are: The charge per week, 183., to De
paid in advance, or Is. per meal. In °ase ot a
boarder leaving before the week has expired the
money to be given up less what is owing lor
board. Boarders will not, on any account, be
alio wed to feed dogs from the table-food, i have
made tbese rules in ooneequeooe of the heavy
losses l have sustained thiough boarders losing
toeir money when getting drunk.’
air Henry Parkes tniuks tDat the Cen-
tenary of N.S.W. would be best cele. rated by tne
erection of a building “Which could be used for the
people.” We suggest that It should take the form
ol a Benevolent Asylum lor Decayed Politicians.
At the same time there might be an Exhibition of
these ancient gentlemen held, and oasts of them
taken for presentation to the Museum. Future
generations would come then to gaze and wonder
and pensively depart, saying, “ Behold there were
fossils in those days—and domed ugly ones at
that.”
The provost-Marahal at Mandalay has, it is
cabled this week, “ been reprimanded for cruelt 1
in Burmah.” He used to keep prisoners standing
for five or ten minutes in front of a firing par y
while a photo-lunatio—a friend of his-flxed up
his camera to oatoh the expression on these
doomed faces just at the moment when the deaf i-
agony was on them. But it’s all right now, for
th‘s fine old English gentleman has b-en repri-
manded. Pass on to the next case, friends. Bri g
along that ragamuffin who stole the turnip. Wi/ii
reprimand him with five years in the reformatory.
A few days ago a man living at Fort it
Lodge, Sydney, backed himself to drink 2p pii J
of olstilied suicide within a certain period. He
drank 18 pints. He is dead now. H J
buried, and seemingly there is no to reaoAWe
duoilcan who aoted as assistant-head at an wgla
wmch meant sudden death. There is plenty of
law, however, if the hotel-maa blows his nose on
Sunday or after il p.m. on a weok-day. or if he
blows another man s nose at any other time. That
is the sort of thing the law oan look after, but one
more toper gone to a beery grave is nothing to j
ootner about.
Judge Dooker saems to be hurt by the
comments on Berner’s ten-year sentence, and
Dlies that “ Judges were not made by machinery.
Of course they were not. No machine ever known
could maiXturl a N.B.W. judge. unleM,per-
haps. a sausage machine. A judge can be made
indifferently out of a worn-out political hanger-
on, ora Cabinet Minister’s son-in-law, or a blue-
nosed briefless barrister, but we have never yet
had the machine-made judge,
him for a change. Our Judges hitherto have been
built up promiscuously out of meat and bones,
and they nave been such a fearful failure that we
would like to fall baok on the boiler-metal animal
for a change.
A fastidious man who has to travel from
Wilcannla to Hay (N.S W.) by coach should, before
starting, commit a crime if he wishes to be com-
fortable. Six manacled prisoners were brought
down to the coach, not long ago, and booked for
Hay. The respectable inside passengers had to
got out and asoend to the roof. The rain imme-
diately came down In a thundering deluge and the
unhappy passengers got wet to the marro w while
the cheerful orimlnals insidei luxu-
rious warmth and dryness. Some of those passen-
gers have slnoe been laid up with rheumatism and
oorpse-maklng colds, but the system still goo*
merrily on. It is hard fora stronger to under-
stand, but, as a matter of faot, a man Is considered
of not much account in the country west of Hay
if he has not committed one or two highway rob-
beries, or, at least, stolen a team of horses.
*' J.W.8.” in the Sydney D.T., suggests
that the N.B.W. Centenary should be oelebrated by
the abolition of lawyers. Th kwoiild,of
include Coonan, and the suggestion Is the best we
have heard slnoe last Jubilee. In the N.Z. Parlia-
ment one of the native members plaintively asked
Sir George Grey if he oould not introduce a bill to
make lawyers nonest, and the veteran Knight of
Kawau said with a sigh that the Devil himself
oould not do that. A bill large enough to produce
such an effect would extend right across the
country, “ Victoria, by the grace of God,” being
somewhere up In Auckland, while the tail of the
document with his Excellency’s signature, would
drift across the Reefton goldfield, ana the whole
measure would have to be passed through the
House in abullook-dray. Then the Maori sat down
with a heathen remark which sounded like an
alligator falling Into a hot spring.
Salvation Harmy hoffioera were telling
yarns one against the other at the Melbourne
Council of War. The amount of Harmy suffering
w hich these narratives disclosed was very eonsid er-
able. Home of the poor evangelists have been re-
stricted, it seems, to two pounds of steaa and a
quartern loaf for a daily allowance of food- Others
have had to do “ hard work" (yes, dear friends) In
order to make both enos meet. But no matter to
what straits they were reduced, the Loara nas
always popped in an opportune miracle. A »outn
AUfttaiUn eapttng tola a beautiful story l about his
little barefooted boy. The child, cetat three years
and six months, “ prayed for a P»ir of boots, jmd
by the time he arrived at “amen the boots were
hanging on the outside door-handle. As a sample
of Divine attention, we would mention that the
Lord knew the little fellow’s fit exactly.” Wed
not he surprised if the Deity had the father fl mea-
sure, also.
B
UMSTBAD ON THE SITUATION*
Bumstead is a Buffalo, ana a ver? good one too,
but even mature Muffalosar* sometimes
to stray from the beeline wbion i» call' d the pat,n
of reotltude by pwome have been there, *um-
stead on one occasion, and • ne only got < n this
track, aud ic was s< lely owing to his desire to do a
good turn for a young neighbour of hm. ine
oung gentleman had just passed sifeiy througn
uis imcltlen, and on the way home he proposed to
Bumstead that they should h»ve just one whisk
in honour of the occasion. Some ardent pout:
clans were there disoussing the relative values o
leading articles in the daily papers, and occas on,
ally varying the monotony with Yankee drab
drinks, and Bumstead became Interested and took,
a hand In the game. About 2 am, he presented
himself at his bedside, and encountered the stern
gaze of Mrs. Bumstead, surrounded by the rriu or
a sfrotless nightcap.
•• M'ria, goin'. t’bave Protection this country—
that’s whash marrer, M’ria - Parkes says Prince
Wales sent for Melville, told him must have It—
where's my dress clothes, M’ria—goin to have
dep'tation to Privy Council t’morrer. I m prop ty
owner, and I’ll have ’ „ , ~
y You’ll have another turn of rheumatios, that s
what you’ll have, you old idiot, Btopplng out m
the wet till this time in the morning; and a nice
time I'll have of it again unless you can get your
friends, Parkes and the Prince of Wales, to come
and rub St. Jacobs Oil into you. Take off your
boots and come to bed, do.
BYOND
COMPETITION.
Jg
The Waterbury Watoh takes front rank as “ the
timekeeper of the day.” It is not an English
lever ” made in Geneva, and puffed into notoriety
to enforce sales and ensure disappointment. The
faotory, whloh is now turning out over 600,00 01
these watohes per annum, is still unable to keep
pace with the demand, and is now extending its
operations into the very heart of the cheap watch-
making territory on the continent of
where it will compete with these “ English levers
oh equal terms. The Waterbury is only a nickel-
plated Watch, sold at 13j. 6d., but It gets its reputa-
tion from purchasers, and not from the owners or
deadstock. ~ . .
The following testimonies to Its worth are taken
haphazard from a number recently received by
Messrs. M'Gregor, Harris, and Co., of George-
street, where the originals may be seen:—
Glencore.
I received the watoh. It keeps good time and
am very well pleased with it. B Q
i ■***
Delegate.
I reoeived the Waterbury in good condition. It
is a splendid watch. The first one I got from you
is as good an article as anyone could wish to carry.
E. H. Marriott.
Maryborough, Q.
Kindly forward me a Waterbury Watch for a
friend. I have one I bought in America five years
ago, and it goes splendidly,
t G. R. M’Donald.
Shoalhaven.
Please send me another dozen of Waterbury
Watches. The last received have given great
8 ao ° n * Thomas M‘Kay.
“The Waterbury.”
snniM
wm
fe=s
I,HE WATERS tJRY WATCH has derived its
. name of
“THE WONDERFUL WATERBCRY”
from the myriads of grateful purchasers who have
satisfied themselves that it is fully up to the
standard claimed by the makers. It is a
STRONG,
HANDSOME,
SERVICEABLE,
WELL-FINISHED
WATCH, and a far more reliable timekeeper than
half of the jewelled-all-over-patent-balfoock-go-
as-you-please-baok-aotion-hair-trigger-compensa-
sation-balanoe-burglar-baits made in Switzerland
and sold as English levers.
The Waterbury has nothing to fear from ridi-
cule, no dread of exposure. It is simply what it
claims to be, and denes competition.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Dealers in the
colony at 135.6 d.
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
54 Margaret-street,
Sydney.
JJO DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
In faot the most perfect harmony betwee buyef
and seller, maker and consumer, marks the pheno-
menal suooes of the introduction of “SNOW-
FLAKE” KEROS NE. Its SAFETY, BRIL-
LIANCY. CLEANLINESS, and ECONOMY, have
secured its position ot first favorise in a large field
of competitors It is imported direct fr m the
refinery of Lombard, Ayres, and Co., of New York.
It is 150 Degrees Fire test, Water white, atd Free
from all impurities. One trial tn a cleau lamp
will establish it is every household.
Itcan be obtained from Messrs, w. s. Friend and
Co.. Maaon Bros, Limited, E. Kirchner aod Co.,
M'Grtgor, Harris, and Co., George urifflth and
Co.,T. W E dy ant 8m D Conen and Co., Potts,
and Paul, Holdswerth a> d Co.. F. Butcher,
Holdswortb, Maopherson, & Co., Walker, Lemon
and Co., M‘Lean, Bros, and Rigg. and W. Tillock
& Co., D. Mitohell and Co., Allt and Co., and John
Barlow and Co,


mah
0f8to??£P STOUT.-Thla favourite brasa®
KOf BtnitfTT OUT.—This favOU
jCv, W thoh»fS!? cted with great care from tne
2?n> of the celebrate
oelebrated firm of
»toSSf®,* o * Co " Dublin, and therefore
N frw he procnirad •verywhoro.
N & HARBTON, Sole Agents.
11 food and io» oompani
■ (Limited)
hare Opened a
®®A N 0 H DIFOI
No.
33 Royal Arcade,
Where they supply
Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o H with
Uffht refreshments.
IW,c *rts ICll, orderBm *F he left for delivery
alao taken over the Agency for
htkhly reoommended In pulmo-
Food and fee Co., Limited,
<sl ~
... 81 Harbour-street
Mittajronjr.
Qkl
*WBRb at
PEMEX.X/S
*XTKA BUPBRFINB
15 * Sifh BOM THB BBST WHBAT
tih jVpw. TT wu> uewesiana uiohl appxvm
PfiTro 7 Proc *»s Machinery.
„ u ”*» V ®BT LOW, and the QUALITY
lflott; D,tt * U)W, and the qua.
»l C VERY GOOD.
.!*** noun MI
LL,
*«! - M » ***
4 «*®r*e-street, Sydney.
*> "
; '
SINGER
and Go,’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHNDANKS,
pitt street,
■
SYDNEY.
ty SHOE DEALERS, CRUDER S EDO
4
i vt,' j
HMSfAY*
OLD BELUBLE
Peerless
Gloss:
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
Ming. Always
%
£IYUSSaiKIMiIUW.i9|
Is conpfitfclta fci
AWAY & SONS,
MASS., TT.S.A.
p«Asm SSWiI
HATTERS,
STREET
l+ Nr , L F fl^s'trrT
SHAPES.
W s . _
| deaorlptlon of
V 4,air * Mercantile and
S^/bne/y.
*«<>4o,»4?aßi! aM * *
* ®®W* tN rrsni
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, is.
Asiatio Liniment, 2s-
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’B Baking Powder (free from alum), fid.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for ooughs, Is.
Clay ten’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is. *
nr. Barbarossa’s Cantharidos and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patohes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. fid.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, rapidity, BASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
BT" THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen,,and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men or business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO-
-410 Kent-street.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our Now Season
Teas, ex Killamey, can be strongly recommendod
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and whieh is protected
from fraud by registration.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c. }
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER N. S. W.
to Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS,
I M.A. Oxon,
j M.R.C.S., Eng.
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that h
has permanently established himself in Sydne'
and may in future be consulted at hit rooms, No.
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers <
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, E-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Baci
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
Z Sure every case undertaken.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop the:
for a time and then have them return again ; I mea
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private di
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cui
in every case undertaken after a personal consultatioi
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impn
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that hi
reduced the general system so much as to induce a
most every other disease, and the real cause of th
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have bee
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwitl
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sc
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patien
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cun
During ray extensive hospital and private practice i
Engjand, I have discovered new and concentrated r«
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvani
Appliances I am In a position to guarantee a cure i:
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you a
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.G.S., ENG.,
No. *1 SPRING ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
DR. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CABTLEREAG H -SI
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
Deformities Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
BOX UO G J\o»
gs
Barry’s Tri opherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’B
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
J endorsement of a Govern-
ment. -Put up m three sizes.
Bole Wholesale Agents:
S. Boffming and Co.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COW^sET
Ul ?
-b
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI 2 A BETH ST
-a.
A
A
tt r sT
6
p
s YA«° % t£',\
o' o' 5 \? VSU
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000,
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: [ Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Eedfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England,!
JPHB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
M PITT-BTREET, and 538 GEORGE-STRBET.
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund ,
£1,000,000
635,000
This Bank has Agents in all the prinoipal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
AA
X
S
n
w
1
X
/
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
m
e. B. MODISII. Bunmakor,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co, Joseph Lang and Son. Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &c., and the brst Continental and
American makers A choice and ootnplete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplies in general R pairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 George-st., Brickfield Hilt, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
IIEDICIITE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices. r
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENIIJK6 CHEMISTS,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva. Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
RO COMMISSION CHARGED FOB BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of ul
charges.
BEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY ITRIf.
Job T. M'liie; & Co.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
MANHOOD RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known remeth
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION
PREMATURE DECAY &C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CORE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self,
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE.
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets; has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
who has passed the Royal College: of
Physicians of England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
jr
»candf
,|l| f.% T h E
■1 QU v^^CUfi^FOß S<^f'
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
HAKLO ONLY BY
Thomas Ingham?
o c
P T O
Z//////Y,
c/}
DE. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYZDHsriEJ-Y*, nsr.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per.
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases.
DR, O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is fvankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects -Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains iu the Back, Stunted Development, &e., nro
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manontj safe, and private. Symptom list free, "and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burhing, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying 1 particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges arc kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy f>“ "S perfect life sure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
03 Castlereash Street (orotod floor), Sydney, -


GAUN
A 9
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
u "SHUSH* \ 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. \ RB4K & o S® fn
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cupi, Optical and Surveying instruments, Ae«
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and BELIA
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
HT PRICE LIBTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
rnr W.nnmOß BALLB. PTONTOB. AND PABTIBB A BPBOTALITY.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND
LUNCHEON REFRESH**«Krr VQnvn you T,ADT» W
ASK YOUB GKROOBB FOB _
RY’S MALTED COCOA
X S. FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains mere of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—LanofT.
f
MASON brothers
dfg
LIMITED,
269 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
fare always 1b STOCK, for SAU
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMON OBEY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA.
iID
IiBTHIXWi B B,
WINES, BEERS. AMD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agent* for
JOHN WALKER and BOM
Old Highland Whisky*
J. BORIN and OO.’B
Cognac.
J. Y. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Centra,
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
UNDEB THE PATRONAGE OP HIB RXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex " Massillia,” 13 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Slgarattas,
specially selected by Mr. Noaks on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes.-he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made. -
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Splllar’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE'S EBT BLISHMENTS
320 and 446 Geokge-st-,
AND
Pall Mall, Htjnter-steeet.
0
i
oo
CO
OS’
Unique flavour and
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 StrssK Srnawv Stditit.
BUDGEREE! BUDGERE® !
Mark
Trade
r&
'V
*2
NO MORE FEVEK.
.«>
plti
MUSIC SELLSKB BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HUB MAJBSTY Tfl
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussem-
BT LA 808 T STOCK IK 111 00*0*
!*»■
I?LL DOG ALB.
KRSTAWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
ffiHß sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
-1 quenching properties of this wond-reaowned
boitling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage ba^the
ALB. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElGWlN and
BARBTON, »ol* Agents
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARB SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
■piiy Bulldog
kcustacho and Whiskers.
(Boyd's Beard Elixir did this
itid will do it on either bald
head or bare face- Forces
4 weeks and never fa Us , 20,000
_ _ young men already wear full
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkts. JS'o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. Gd. each, 3 for 3*. C d., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation. Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. Q. P. 0 ,, Sydney, N fi.
iEr°nS AM£H
Copyrighted.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA,
354 George-street
(Beneath Palin*’*.)
”
a
m i» v
* r r>er£e° tiOD
THE highest point of P ei
faoture of H
Saving been reached by meto** 10 * 9 n gt ® e 0
prepared to supply ° ur 0 the 139
made of any material, cu Ar*
principle, ®
GCAKAMEEWOFE
ind as we use materials of* a igo ® e ° U
iurability and good rl^|
l a. oebhey *,,,
13 hunter Bi
STDN,r >j*^«
actory 11-—v
“S2P& c fe5.> ,, ..,4
Manufactory
I REAT
consisting
all the well
MUM: „
Tliiek. &,C. v- » d “
,dd*
H ON^ bS
Duck, &c.
setters and order*
nager,
31 and 33
Preprintin' of
LATM ROWLANDS * UtWia,
Manufacturer of oH kinds of JEratad ffat«rs f Cordials, ***** fitters,, end
BAJULABAT. MBLBO U RNE, mi «t
81 AND 33 HUNTED STISEET, SYDNEY.
1 the Only Solo Medal for &rated and Mineral Water*; dao, another Gold Medal for Liqueuj^i,
