

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
t
mouy Hordern & Sons, Palace Emporium. Haymarket only.
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN AUSTRALIA
t
AUTUMN FASHIONS
The Lat.-sf, the Freshest,
the very Newest.
PRLITILY THIMMED
Miifdt Jerseys
From 7/9.
.‘h'. 0
U
.( .
I! 11“"- ,
J,é',
.::';‘J ‘J : 5 ' 27:35:? ”kg—1..
' “'»r..’::i:<>'>:1 5 .
7;»);
’ WT”. ;~.':-'“ ‘
5.0;.- 1 .-." ‘4‘:_;-;r_,- ..
:1) '55:: «5: w» 4211::
MC 3:..(53 :' r4111, ~ (1,, ~
: 122,5}: -
,
,3: ‘12:, :11: gnu-.1 ”1,3,.
‘. r: 1: =7'1“"::-‘,-‘.-:' 1.
)3: ~- 1‘[' “2 {My} ’2‘: vi
I ‘ ‘ l . r‘fﬂrrh M - /:’ ,‘ .‘.
:1 C(VLA‘,15.L;§JE?H" , kg
‘71:?” v,“"»"7.-,‘:.‘3"‘:..;r“_. ' ..‘“
" . ;‘ i;.'§:£{f':4.l'."‘.:v' :
$675.15 (Ti-)2}? ,
1'3 " -‘ 21.7%? .
., 1 /: ,1 ..,11,..
'5' 343,7: '5' ” '
H» . <1,» .
Rag/,1. . 7.162/
“1112213" -. 5'21}, ,
@3521: iii/2,6. '
1;..- ,, ,,,1,:
14:22... «a
{if/x; 21;?
X1- 141,," 5
. -: ,I. n‘; ~. _ s
j“ I - {a 4:5:
_ h . . >.
‘9“: 3‘ ktzi". e“
52: ‘2 .' . 55-?
M ‘ » é
\ .3
snail aiBvNOIHSVJ
NO END OF A CHOICE
Of
kit Jersey Jackets
at
VERY LOW PRICES.
AN EXQUISITE DISPLAY
of
AUTUMN MILLINERY.
m
I
The
ttatter 0f LITILB BOYS’
CLOTHING has our special care. We study the exigencies of the situation in evej
and we are careful, in the interest of the.parent, to keep prices dowi
y way; we see that the boys are well and serviopably clothed,
to the lowest ebb. i
THE palace emporium is close to the railway station.
_®
a..
*?.
a ,ll a «d Peyton's, and Kendriok’s Bedsteads,
a sni — "Poiishori Nickel mounts.
R splpjj^, pillars, Bronze and Nick€
Br ass-mounted Half Tester, JiiJJ
TROUSER SUITS, in Fancy
A
BAKE
SHOW
Bedsteais
JUST
NOW.
yap“ , :2:
A l
2
{4.1.721 v .
‘7’.)2.‘ 3‘
I , ,, 2,. . ,_ . "
;" ‘ gift? , ,-;
r n _' _- ‘ ‘ " .
‘3 27:5' ~.' ~. ~ "
1;“ . tie-:1 v' ., .
21. ;-:-:.;: , . ' ,-’
3,;— 2‘5./,'!.u:j-, -_‘ ' . .
717' “‘ ,. :T-‘y \'/ ‘
3’2- " " . *
'."" .‘é‘i‘:‘?i":2?“ ‘ 'h " ‘
.-5- ran.
.uv r‘:1-‘ [mu-J .
2: - -“'-. .‘wi-g 1..
.3, -;.~;,_../5.,.,»~.'_-,_,4 ,— -.‘
v‘ -'.- .w .wz‘ ":1: ,‘-"J - '
>4. . 255132;? ‘.-__:_;w..,
~ -=-/..-,:-. v -
: 51. 2,. - ‘ ..,».«,- ,
*5 n'iﬁiﬁ‘" W;- ’ ‘ .-.
[T356 . 1.2».-
I, It.
, a 1.
15;.“ _ a .Lv?‘
', a," , _‘ ”if" 3“.
,‘ .:"4- —. Gab-21' : 3
' _ ‘ ‘ “ n e" ‘
4 ' ..‘, I ‘
, _ v; 2
_- ’
,
■J
200 S 3 liedstcAdi-
(fej always on view
T
- ;- v :
V,!
Biggest, Best, and Most Varied Btock of Bedsteads in
Australia. All kind#. Ail prices. Grand quality.
Magnificent finish. Extreme Durability.
Tweeds, Nine and Sixpence !
EMI, Eayiarkit Oily.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DWIHS
GEAR, Brass
& Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Bar* Prase and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, BlacksmithiDg
Plumbing, Qaeiitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-nttiny
of every description.
DOULTON’B “JFLUBH-OUT,” ** V CLQBBTB, “ VACUUM ” WATBB-WASTB
£ole Agents for Verty Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application
s! ,‘eroé'. ‘ ’5'“—
'; C: 275;: ‘33—“; ; _ﬁt-; .3??-
£133:- '——'$*:31 32%? ﬂag: 1%: I»
.19.; ﬁZ-Aj‘lir ' . 2995;254:329" ;_..:
-' a“: -:€f€>§é~é%§‘~'=r.amaﬁszi==k~
- = w’éE-fsaz, ? Etcéggfi—"éli‘; ;
‘ '_J- 2:“;- __ £2. :‘53' 'ﬁe§5;~g=>:zr—zvs
L: 7:331:27: 2.31.: ai—Eaixz-E’éfg—r— “é
,- -——~=:.——-» .-,==.—;t;:2_—_:»‘2"=. ‘ ‘3‘ :,=__~“_: -
i“ 5%; 252:“ ﬂwj “5"“?- 35a
Wags; , ,f—r” ~
” ..' iii—:j_§:=§“;ac W:
-f- %-,7%;:3;r-“3' A “jig/ﬁg
—— ‘_ﬁ—‘Tf’sg- g ' - 'éfﬁ
—‘-'-"§-~ . ;Tif _..—.33}. 7%“ ,
}’;.v:— EVE—7“ // .’ ‘é'f‘g
&’—._.==’b“>.~.. f; < ’ z. 4‘ w!
«ﬁg- A’s” , K; ‘5’5'3
7*: 74.- 7’, '._m-===-" ’ .' é :~'=-' .
' v.5" ; '_’ 9.36M! , -( 7.25%
”‘9?“ ‘3 ,6- //’;:5-5’2
%”, . ., 35‘2"” :;
“6/” 1.9 3% 2
3‘ '¢. " '7 ' ~" ‘ '-- ‘.:‘_ I-‘4"‘
it” ’%§‘/%”F -"".'”"»~'."'.':"‘
& ’ gtﬂf’w ‘ /I. ----~» -‘ (we;
ré.--. as: ;/ "-‘"‘§'3* ‘ ' 2:.
92%]; 9% Annie 51-; r3»: Qav-
. 112/44 LA!" ,. V —- Eifséﬁ»
_2' c‘, J .>‘ - , V'V r-- ,
,7‘1_:»/ 1‘ I, ’K ‘7 7:, a)" u m: _ #2
2» “,4 ., ‘2 2:92;? Efﬁsfé
..‘ ,. ‘. ,-' ., 7’. _wc/h;'_
:45: ' -<E~~ .__- ~—-:»=-A
_~. Q, ‘7‘ /' ‘— -= twp—=2:—
‘ “r: - ,_- . m
A Derangemant of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
- AND—
STSTEI£.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR- J. HAYDOCH,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blo<id-puriflur of the Circulation. Prom
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
tho action of the liver,these Bubstunces are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
by a largo vein, called tho Hepatic win, into the general circulation. '1 he new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchisop says. “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding oeases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of mlo interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
I) The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
8. Depression of spirits and great melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
0 everything for to-morrow.
All o£ the above symptoms go to show functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
great Importance of anv error made mto the condition of the patient. He abotfid immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVE Si STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly. Is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which Is an active and thorough dose. I haTO called it
Or. Hay dock's Slow Liver Pill (Sugar Caatad.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s Now Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr, Haydo?k’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOR BALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated. If your druggirt does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad*
dms on receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for *l.OO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY.
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J.H.Franoi
Agent if or the United States, Is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As ;Dr. Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market, any scep-
tic can 1 have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U.S.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
tar WEDDINGS. BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCHOTT cftL GO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 CsEORfaE STREET, SYDNEY, N.3.W.;
Also, at London, Mavknce, Paris, and Brussels.
Z$T LARGEST iaXOCK IN THE COLONIES.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, BYDNEI.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, T; eatro, Tramway, &o
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. Fircit-c aus Wines and Spirits
The mod Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
Baumann,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
mr LUNCHEON AND ttEFKESBMISWT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMAN.
ROMS, CHUB, ail 0,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
SEVERAL IRONMONGERS,
iM, mm, ui ik wM
Importers ol
and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACffIN| K?
RA! LWAY AN D OTH ERCONT RA CTO R 8 ’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT®
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERB
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIK
IRON
SHEET and PBRFO
BATED ZINC: Tils
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, anc
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
52**=
BfiOCS
\ i
f‘OKTAf3L|.|J ) I |N<
and BBMI-WX*' "
GINBB
VHRT'CAL «d A°g
ZONTAL
ots«>
TB AM
PUMPS
and
pbaSS
LATHES*
SHAPING,
ING, and.
MACHINES
)TBAM HAMMSBB
ENGINBBBS’
foundby
PATENT BOi
SHAFT UG
JIUICKSILYBB, * c ‘
Price Lists tuad Catalogues furnlsued on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
goad Warehouse -
on an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Ol]ie«
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBIN
SYDNEY;
- 86 GRAOSCHUHOH BTRSJfif
Alex. Borthwick. «. s 5,
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. Uia
2 SI. Q-eorgre-st_, 53rd.33.©5 f '
OFFORD & CO.’S HAP
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
US" Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street. .
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 3s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—J.s
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
nr. Barharossa’s Canth9rides and Russian Beer’s
Grease Oil, for, covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 3s. 61.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 2GB and 306 PITT STREET.
DENTISTS
/f y ‘tlec/mi //ic
c&kms &
s»!s
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALI
NEWEST DESIGNS
’.HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST cost:
CBA» £S
an 0 .
HO lSr 'j
ENd f'
mo*'**:
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNt»n u
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLET®^
mi
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
MelboUi'Ji"'
22, KING STB £E
ţ
___
O.lO 1
be found In tha
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of oo V s.\i
Lost Manhood, Despondency, & c * f° {
this book will be sent post free, sett
penny sUimis. Address—
8. WARD & CO., e f
Sydney I’harmaof; a yd>
Hunter-SW o *’


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3—No. 153 —New Stria*.
SATURDAY, APRIL 10, 1886.
Friet-—<NL
Divorce or—Disgrace.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, APRIL 10, 1886.
The Legislative Councillors of New South
Wales have for some weens past been dis-
cussing a Bill introduced by Sir Alfred
Stephen and intended to empower the
Courts to grant relief by way of Divorce in
certain cases in which it is not now obtain-
able. This extension, if passed, would in-
crease the number of grounds for dissolu-
tion of the marriage tie by four—habitual
drunkenness, continuous desertion, commis-
sion of crime by either party, and repeated
assaults of a serious character. So far, but
scant attention has been paid to the sub-
ject by the daily Press, only the most meagre
reports of the debates having been pub-
lished, although the subject is of the highest
possible human interest. So deeply was
its importance felt by ancient communities
that in many instances the same word signi-
fies both “law” and “marriage.” Our
“ancients” in the Council are equally im-
bued with a sense of the gravity of the
question, and their customary legislative
farce has during the debate been superseded
by a political drama of even tragical
solemnity. Several members have been
able to beep awake during nearly the whole
of the speeches, and argumentative, if pon-
derous deliverances, have attacked or sup-
ported the Bill. That a progressive measure
of this nature should have originated in the
Upper House is of itself a remarkable fact’
but the narrow majority of three for the
second reading does not augur well for its
fate.
* * *
At the root of the whole question is the
contention that marriage is a divine institu-
tion ordained by Almighty wisdom, and not
to be dissolved by human agency, or that, to
use the words of the Hon. Charles Camp-
bell. “ after marriage has been made a civil
contract it receives a higher blessedness and
is madea sacred contract”—and is, therefore,
beyond the power of dissolution by legal
process. This line of argument would avail
nothing with the advanced section of the
community who deny the right of religion
to make its voice heard in matters of legis-
lation, and although we hold with these
that human affairs should be regulated
solely by the power of human reason, it is
worth while to examine this claim in order
that we may see how far it can consistently
be urged.
* * *
It may be noticed at the outset that, ad-
mitting, for the purpose of argument,
marriage to tave been divinely
we are still left in doubt as to what sort of
marriage was sanctified with the higher
blessing touchingly alluded to by Mr.
Charles Campbell. Cain, for instance,
appears to have married his sister, Abra-
ham married with distressing frequency,
and Esau, Lamkch, and many others took
at least two wives, while King Solomon
showed his wisdom by selecting a huge
number of consorts. Then, too, the New
Testament states that a bishop should be
“the husband of one wife,” evidently mean-
ing thereby, not that he should be a married
man, but that he should have no more than
one wife. We are thus left in some doubt
as to the exact nature of the union diotated
by Divine ordinance. If, therefore, the
clerical party are thoroughly sincere in
their belief in the Divine ordinance of the
institution, they should endeavour to induce
Legislative councillors to assimilate the pre-
sent law of marriage to that which obtained
in earlier times by legalising incestuous and
polygamous unions. To be consistent in his
contention Mr. Campbell should uphold the
Mormon system, for that is certainly more
in accordance with the custom of the patri-
archs than that enforced by British law.
t » •
But we would go one step further, and
meet the clerical party on the ground which
they themselves have marked out, by quot-
ing from the marriage service of the Church
of England, wherein it is stated with a care-
ful attention to detail that matrimony “is
an honourable estate instituted of God ” for
three causes—Firstly, “ For the procreation
of children to be brought up in the fear and
nurture of the Lord; ” secondly, “As a
remedy against sin to avoid fornication ; ’’
and thirdly, “ For the mutual society, help,
and comfort that the one ought to have of
the other.” Now, accenting these eauses as
true and reasonable ones for the institution
DR. AGNEW, THE NEW TASMANIAN PREMIER.
of the order, it will be perfectly clear to all
but the severely clerical mind, that in any
of the four cases enumerated by Sir Alfred
Stephen, one, at least of these stated
objects of the ordinance is defeated. An
habitual drunkard is not likely to bring his
children up in “ the fear and nurture of the
Lord,” nor to contribute much to “ mutual
help and comfort; ” neither is a man who
is doing say 10 years at Trial Bay prison;
nor yet a man who deserts his wife, nor one
who brutally assaults her. Seeing that in
such cases the objects for which matrimony
was ordained are frustrated, it is surely
opposed to the Divine will to continue that
bond which must defeat the aims for whioh
it was imposed. It is necessary thus to
notice the position of the priestly party on
this question, because their utmost influence
will always be exerted for the purpose of
throwing out any such measure, and their
word still has a large power with those who
are unable to discover for themselves the as-
sumption upon which their dictum is found-
ed. It may also be regarded as a matter of
absolute certainty that the clergy of all de-
nominations will plead for the Divine nature
of the institution, and the absolute necessity
of marriage within a church, so long as
wedding-fees continue to average five
guineas per ceremony; and so long as par-
sons and priests are believed when they say
that marriage before a registrar is nothing
more than legalised prostitution, it will
always be necessary for writers and legis-
lators to show the utter baselessness of such
presumptuous and libellous assertions.
To pass, then, from superstition to mat-
ters of fact, it is useful, in order to ascertain
the desirability of some such measure for
the extension of divorce, to remember that
the evils of the present system are such
that it is to the manifest benefit of all par-
ties personally affected to keep their griev-
ances as secret as possible. No meetings are
likely to be hold by wives deserted or bru-
tally ill-treated by their husbands. There is a
disgrace in these case 3 which compels the in-
jured one to suffer in silence. When the wife
is repeatedly assaulted by her husband she
may obtain a judicial separation, but that is
only halt the remedy she requires. Not only is
it desirable that she should be able to obtain
another help-meet if there be an oppor-
tunity of doing so, but it is uaeltss to
shut our eyes to the fact that as Mr. Camp-
bell says we have “ a coarser feeling
which we inherit,” &c. Were all men and
women possessed with an overpowering
virtue, or were they all nonagenarian?,
there would be no necessity for considering
the frailty of human resolves, but it should
be evident even to a Legislative councillor
that all men are not so divinely virtuous,
and, therefore, “ this ooarser feeling” and
its varying force must at present be
esteemed a factor of our national life. It is
not too much to say that in a large number
of cases in which one partner is permanently
removed by imprisonment or desertion, or
in which a judicial separation is granted, for
want of a divorce, disgraoe is the aooepted
alternative. Under the existing law, a mar-
riage celebrated with whatever solemnity
is declared null and void, if either party be
found upon examination to be physi-
cally unfit to become a party to suoh a
union, and the other partner is, of
course, then free to marry again, the
law in such a case judging that the par-,
ties cannot be considered bound to one
another when the condition of marriage
would be an intolerable burden to either or
both of them, and yet though one partner
should be imprisoned for life, or be driven
by drink into hopeless lunacy, there is then
no relief for the sane partner. It would be
folly to allow divorce beoauso either con-
sort has been deceived as to the character
of the other, but it is worse than folly to
refuse to loosen the bond of union whioh is
intolerable to the parties, as well as a prob-
able cause of grave misconduct to either of
them, and therefore a source of lamentable
social evil.
* * *
Ooe protest commonly made against any
extension of the law of Divorce, is based
upon the assertion that the loosening of the
marriage bond for aught save adultery pro-
motes all kinds of vice, and leads to a huge sys-
tem of national immorality. Mr. Campbell,
so far the most eloquent opponent of Sir
Alfred Stephen's Bill, quotes the “easi-
ness of divorce” as the cause of that
national viciousness whioh led to the de-
struction of the Roman nation. He surely
can scarcely believe his own argument.
Was It, we would ask, the “easiness of
divorce” that induced Cato the Senten-
tious, to lend his wife to his friend Hor-
tensius? Or was it the same cause that led
the Romans into the commission of those
repulsive vices which Ovjd, and other clas-
tic writers, detail in such a disgustingly
deliberate manner? That divorces were
very easily obtainable when Rome was sunk
in the depths of degradation is certain
enough, but that this was the effect of the
viciousness of the age, and not its cause,
must be equally clear. A truer cause of
Rome’s deoline, and we would commend
this fact to the consideration of the Crcesdses
of the Council, was the exorbitant wealth of
the aristocracy, which paved the way first
for luxury in its most enervating shape, and
then for vice such as the world never before
nor ever since, beheld. A similar statement
is made with regard to the working of the
Divorce Laws in France, but it is not stated
that that country was renowned for the
singular virtue of its inhabitants before the
facilities for obtaining divorces were intro-
duced. America is also indicated as a
warning which should influence legislators
in determining to restrict the law to its pre-
sent powers, but it would be as well if those
who speak so deprecatingly of the States,
could produce some statistics or reliable in-
dependent testimony 'to prove that New
South Wales, and Sydney in particular, can
afford to throw the stone of condemnation
across the Pacific, In proportion to her
population, the capital of N.S.W. can
show an alarmingly large number of pro-
fessed aband,ounces , and it requires no effort


of imagination to believe that this miserable
army is largely recruited from, and sup-
ported by, that contingent of deserted wives
and husbands whom this present Bill is in-
tended to relieve.
<9 9 ■
Whether this Divorce Extension Bill be
ever presented for Royal assent or not, the
whole question is one whioh must, in the
near future, receive a larger measure of
attention than has ever been paid to it in
Australia in the past, and it seems more
than probable that the colonies will lead the
way in this question as they have already
done in the granting of manhood suffrage,
and various Liberal reforms. The welfare of
the children born of disastrous marriages
must be the Legislators’ chief object, and
allied to that must be the aim to prevent, as
far as may be possible, the harmful conse-
quences of a union which has become im-
potent for any good result, and only capable
of frustrating every purpose for which the
contract was made. On the other hand, no
concession may be granted which would act
as a temptation to persons to enter into the
married state believing that if the contract
should prove to be less advantageous than
they had hoped, a release therefrom could, by
any act of oollusion, be easily obtained. Fool-
ish, improvident, and unhappy marriages,
will be made to the end of time, but it is only
when these become, by the criminal act of
one of the parties, an engine of grievous
wrong to the other and innocent con-
tractor, a cause of harm and degradation to
the children, and an agent of evil to the
community generally that the Btate can
justly interfere. That such State interfer-
ence is necessary; all must admit who are
not oppressed with the belief that it is an
act of sacrilege for men to meddle with
what the priests and parsons assert to be an
institution ordained and limited by the hand
of an unerring Providence. To those, on the
contrary, who believe that the human reason
is given for the purpose of its exercise in
the promotion of human good, such measure
will commend itself as a neoessary and
highly beneficial reform.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “ Free ” Slaves of Amerioa.
In the <3.M. Herald’s American letter of March
13tb, is the following :
“Cotton is at the lowrst figures ever touched,
but the planters are quite clear in tho belief that
they need not be driven out of the business until
a large further decline is established. This hope-
fulness is generally attributed, even in the South,
to tbe abolition of slavery, which, as contrasted
practically with free labour, is shown to be the
more expensive labour system of the two. In
other words, taking things on a grand scale, fear
was less potent in making the black man indus-
trious and-Useful than is now the desire of getting
whisky and Yankee clocks and cheap pictures; and
the ill effect# of abolition in the West Indies must
be accounted for, therefore, upon some other
theory than the innate and irremediable laziness
of the African race.’’, ‘ -s
If this means anything, it is that the negroes of
America, of whose emancipation the world has
heard so much ever since 1866, cannot, by their
labour, earn even the meagre di6t held by the
Legislatures of the Slave States to be necessary to
the maintenance of life. All history proves that
half measures ih no way help those for whose
benefit they are introduced, and the truth is that
when the American Union liberated the slaves >
but left the land from which they must still live,
in the hands of tbe planters, it did not improve the
condition of the negro except in name. While
a landowner was also owner of his labourers, he
was compelled by law and interest-we say
nothing about humanity—to keep them in good
bodily health; in other words, to feed them well
and work them moderately. By the emancipation
of his slaves the planter was relieved from all
responsibility as to their maintenance, while, at
the same time, he was in a position to call all the
machinery of sooiety to his aid to compel the
freed labourer to work for less than it cost to
maintain him as a slave. For men—be they black
or white—must eat, while society insists that they
shall not steal; and as the planter monopolises the
land from which they must get their living, he
can exaot from them their labour at whatever
price he may choose to give them. Henry George
speaks of the land-monopolists reducing wages
to the “slave-point,” but, according to the S.M.
Herald’s correspondent, the men who “own” that
portion of God’s earth between the Potpmao and
the Gulf of Mexico have reduced wages below the
“ slave-point.” Surely it must be immensely
gratifying to the fathers whose sons fell in front
of Lee’s artillery at Gettysburg to learn that the
Southern planters find they can extract more
profit from the sweat of the negroes to-d&y under
the institutions of thei“ greatest and freest Re-
public that earth has ever seen ” than they could
under the old system of acknowledged chattel
slavery. What reason have we to hope that what
is the state of the coloured labourer in Amerioa
to-day will not be the condition of his white
brother in another 20 years, or that this state of
things will confine itself to America ? Do not all
things at present point to the conclusion that
before the present generation has passed away
one of two things will have happened—that either
land will have ceased to be held as private pro-
perty, and the labourer will have free access to
nature’s store-house, and thus be really a free
man, or that the “ lower classes ” will be sweated
down one rung lower on the ladder, and be com-
pelled, like the American negroes of to-day, to
toil for less than a slave’s subsistence ? Let the
working men of this new land determine which
alternative their children shall have.
4
Orangeism And Annexation, j
EARTR-hunger, anew development of the iugo
craze, and sectarian jealousy are the prime factors
of the fuss now being made in Sydney concerning
the annexation of the New Hebrides. The power
of the first impulse is seen in the applause which
invariably greets the statement that the group
contains 2500 square miles of fertile land; the
incitement of Jingoism, in the defiant oratory
which, not content with blaring out contempt for
France, threatens danger to England in the event
of any compromise being adopted: while the sec-
tarian yeast which is fomenting the disturbance,
is seen in the fervid and frothy “skiting ”—for it
is worthy of no more dignified name—of the
patriotic (to the salvation-cum-coooanut-oil inter-
est) Paton, and also in the presencs of such noted
Orange bigots and Kiama ghost-raisers as were on
the platform with Sir Henry Parkes on Monday
night. The indication of those members who
are Orangemen first and politicians afterwards is,
if spontaneous, very convenient for the occasion:
and, if assumed, a clever mask to hide their bitter
sectarian hatred for the Jennings Ministry. They,
like the Melbourne Arsmjs, have interested sus-
picions, and the present opportunity gives them
a chance of displaying what Mr. Dibbs rightly
terms their “ spurious loyalty,” and atmiDg a blow
at a hated Cabinet, sufficiently armed, at the time
of writing, against other attack. The Argus is
not ashamed to say: -
“ By and bye Australians may be able to get at
the whole story of why Sir Patrick Jennings,
Mr. Garvan, and their colleagues now view the
cession of the islands from what appears, on the
face of it, to be the anti-English as well as the
anti-Australian point of view.”.
This is nothing, if not an insinuation that Sir
Patrick Jennings and Mr. Garvan, the
Romanist members of the Ministry, are selling the
interests of their own land at the dictation of
their own creed—that they are betraying their
country for the sake of handing over a few
alleged Presbyterian niggers to the teaching of
the Church of Rome. So base and manifestly
false an allegation proves not only with what
Christian fervency the Argus people hate a
Romanist, but also to what desperate straits they
are driven for arguments to buttress a rotten
cause. Were it not that the miserable conflict of
the Orange and the Green is involved, Australia
would not be sufficiently interested in the ques-
tion to call a solitary meeting or pass a siDgle re-
solution; but as the “Bloody Shirt ” of Australian
polities has been brought out by the reiteration
of Parkes’ cry for “ Protestant Ascendancy,” the
yelping bigots, who mustered so strongly at
Sydney Town Hall on Monday night, are ready to
clothe themselves with fantastic and wondrous
arguments, as with a garment, to hide the utter
repulsiveness of their skins, pock-marked and
disfigured with the scars of sectarian strife. Even
Sir Henry Parkes, with alt his ingenuity
of reasoning powers and oratorical force,
was obliged to go forward to the “ end of next
century” for his principal argument. Unless
it be granted that England has a Divine mission to
annex any and every part of the world which can-
not be defended by its own native inhabitants, it is
impossible to get any tangible pretexts for this
Pacific steal, or to see what good can result there-
from. As we have frequently pointed out, the
extension of territory can be of no benefit to a
community which now owns more land than it
can utilise in the course of the next two centuries,
and the “ protection to our coaits ” to be secured
by enlarging the territory to be defended in time
of war, by the inclusion of a group of islands
nearer to the ports of a possibly unfriendly power
than to any part of Australia, and isolated from that
continent, is a piece of strategic blundering that
only needs mention to ensure derision. When
the interested clamour of a section of the citizens
of Sydney for the annexation of New Guinea was
raised we opposed it, and asserted that the
Monroe doctrine should be rigidly confined to
the mainland of Australia. Now that part of that
island has been annexed we have the humiliating
spectacle of the colonies haggling over the cost,
and refusing to increase the necessary subsidy for
the maintenance of the territory annexed at
their request. Sir Patrick Jennings would have
done better, perhaps, to regard the motion by Sir
Henry Parkes as beiDg merely one of pro-
spective character: then the question would
have been defeated on its merits, instead
of becoming to many a me ms with which
to harass an obnoxious Cabinet. But ad-
mitting that Sir Patrick has erred in this
way, it is the only mistake which can justly be
urged against him. For to suppose that his view
of the question is subject to considerations as to
the future creed of a few natives who now believe
in Paton but might in the event of French occu-
pation be converted to Moran, is to accede to a
libellous imputation that could only bo evolve d
from a mind saturated by bigotry and dominated
by sectarian malice. He has taken a dignified and
statesmanlike view of the whole question and has
acted consistently therewith, and contrasting his
attitude with that of Sir Henry Parkes, any
occurrence which would have the effect of
changing their respective positions in the House
while the New Hebrides question is still unsettled,
would be a disaster to Australia.
4.
Payment of Members.
As The Bulletin by its publication of argu-
ments in favour of Payment of Members in
N.S.W. first brought the question of payment of
members within the area of practical politicp, we
look with satisfaction on the majority obtained by
Mr. Heydon on his motion to initiate the system.
It is unfortunate that the principle should be
affirmed just at a time when the country is in
such dire financial straits, but as it is a principle,
the mere monetary consideration should not carry
much weight. Questions of cost cannot affect the
soundness of a principle. If it be not right to go
to the Treasury for salaries for member?, it is
wrong to take the Ministers’emoluments there-
from. Sir Henry Parkes does not believe that
the country is in favour of the payment of mem-
bers. If he is right in his opinion it is strange that
so many men who expressed themselves in its
favour were elected. At St. Leonards election the
contest was a mere duel between Sir Henry and
Mr. Dibbs, but in every other constituency the
question was kept fully to the [front, so much so
that when members took their seats lists were
published in several of the newspapers showing
the number of those who affirmed the prin-
ciple. Mr, G. A. Lloyd thought that pay-
ment of members always “Caused a de-
terioralion in the personnel of Parliaments.
Such was emphatically the case in Victoria.” The
evident retort to this by Victorians would be that
—hallelujah!—there is no Honourable-within-the-
Colony Lloyd in their Parliament. Mr. W. J.
Foster did not think that members should be paid,
although he “had no objection to take fees,”
which, coming from a lawyer, was quite an un-
necessary piece of information. Mr. Burdekin
naturally enough opposed the motion. If it were
passed, rioh men of his stamp would find it less
easy to obtain admission to the Assembly. It
would cease to be in any respect a rich man’s
club. Nor is it strange to find Mr. Want on the
same side. Sydney lawyers now find it a compara-
tively easy matter to get in for a country consti-
tuency, but if local men were enabled to undertake
thB duties of representation, the metropolitan
barrister would very frequently find himself at
the wrong end of the poll. If the arguments so
far advanced by Mr. Heydon’s opponents are tbe
best that can be used, there should be little reason
to fear that many of the present supporters of the
motion will be won over to the other side, and
although several of the 41 who voted with Mr.
Heydon did so only to allow of further corsldera-
tion of the matter, there should still be a majority
sufficient to bring the system into operation. This
reform being instituted will facilitate the intro-
duction of other progressive and beneficial mea-
sures. Although a principle itself, it is also a
powerful means to an end unattainable without
its assistance.
After the refreshment hour on Tuesday night
Sir Patrick Jennings delivered his Budget
speech in the New South Wales Assembly. His
proposals are to so large an extent based upon right
principles, and are in the main so just in their in-
cidence that they are not likely to be subjected to
material amendment. The proposed new taxes
include 5 per cent, ad valorem duty, besides some
increases in the list of specific duties, whioh
will have the effect of removing existing
anomalies ; increased stamp duties, and
an alteration in probate duties by means
of graduation—ranging from 1 per cent, where
the value of an estate is under £5OOO, to 5
per cent, when the total value is over £50,000; an
unimproved-land tax of in the £ with exemp-
tion for estates under £IOCO, and an income tax of
4d. in the £, incomes under ££oo per annum being
exempted. The increased specific duties are ex-
pected to yield £68,000 ; ad valorems, £300,00Q ;
stamp and probate duties £65 000 ; and lsnd
and income tax £250,000, making a total of
£683.550 to be raised by means of the
new imposts The estimates of expenditure
have been cut down from £9,113,881, as estimated
by Mr. Burns, to £8,533,358, - a reduction of
£513,028; and the revenue, if the taxation pio-
posals be adopted, is estimated at £9,023.050,
which, if realised, will reduce the deficit, which
was £1,309,471 at the end of 1885, by £499.692, These
proposals practically embody several principles
which we have constantly asserted as neoessary to
a just system of taxation, and we do not believe
that a majority of the House will be found willing
to reject any of the main points ef the taxation
programme.
♦
The present New South Wales Ministry are a
secretive set. They have refused to answer a
question asked by Mr. Harold Stephen, M.L.A.,
as to the names of the vast army of public (loggers
and what they get for flogging prisoners per head,
or per annum. Wo strongly recommend Mr.
Stephen to press his demand for information on
this point. In England it has just been discovered
that the assistant hangman is a baronet, who
chokes people because he likes it; and, we ask, who
in N.S.W. can be cerlain, in tho absence of an
authoritative and properly substantiated state-
ment to the contrary, that the principal floggers„
or some of their numerous deputies, are not the
representatives of the “first families” of the
colony—that our (loggers are not descendants
of the colonial first-flogged ? Who, tell us, is in a
position to say that the official cord and wire cat-
’o-nine tails is not at the present moment swinging
in the hands of members of a high-toned society
which—positions having during the last few years
been somewhat reversed—is desirous of wiping
out with the lash the wrongs of its square-
jawed ancestors ? Who knows, for the matter of
that, that the principal scourger may not fee a
member of Parliament, or of tbe Jennings Minis-
try itself? Under ail the circumstances of the
case, we are inclined to regard the refusal of the
Government to afford information concerning tie
names, &o„ of the public doggers, as a dastardly in-
sinuation designed to injure the credit of the
Companions of the most distinguished and honour-
able Order of St. Michael and St. George.
4
The Sydney Musical Corps— alias the public band
—which, like everything else, from Dan. O’Con-
nor to Beersheba, is “ under the patronage of
Lord Carington,” had a public meeting in the
Town Hall the other night, and thereat (also
equally as a matter of course) Daniel aforesaid
spouted. The hon. sec., Mr. Moonen, bad pre-
viously issued a circular rapturously dwelling on
“the humanising influence of music.” We wish
Mr. Moonen iived at our hashhouse. We wish he
lived for one single weak in a cold inhospitable
abode of sodden mutton and ruined tarts where
ten skinny daughters, who had stayed up till one
a.m. the night before, stealthily but steadily hug-
ging on the doorstep a set of miserable bank
clerks and half-starved Lands officials, arose and
proceeded to—ablute, to turn on the bath-
tap? No. To bray out the “Woodpecker” and
“ See-saw,” and Hamilton’s everlasting and never-
to-be-sufficiently-oursed Exercises—to freeze the
blood of us who are slowly dying of insomnia, and
who will one day be picked up in the streets with
hopeless paralysis of the brain—to ruthlessly
rattle and thump on a piano which naught saves
from the clutches of the bailiff—Heaven bless and
speed him I—but the economy, involving our star-
vation, sempiternally practised by their slatternly
screw of a mother. “ The humanising influences of
music! ” Does this man Moonen know the musi-
cal home of the fat usurer who lives close to
the den, yclept boarding-house, where we atrophise
in every fibre upon chopped-up oat’s meat and
coffee made out of horse-liver ? Does he know
the house wherein on the evening of the holy Sab-
bath, the sons and “the daughters of Solyma, whose
noses overshadow the land ” pull up their win.
dowsand yelp with hideous discordance right on
to midnight in rooms where lamps shining bright
with the fat of the Christian illumine heavy cur-
tains dyed red with the blood of the Gentile ? The
humanising influence of music 1 Bosh! The
humanising influence of the Bengal tiger, of the
sausage-machine, of your mother-in-law—of the
spaiches of the jay nil an’ illoquint Dannybl
O’Connor, Im Pay.
4_
David Buchanan, barrister-at-law and orator,
sneers at aquatics and at Beach, the champion
sculler. David, you aren’t the man who should
heave rooks at Beach's boat. We don’t believe in
making a god out of a waterman, but all the same
we feel kindly towards Beach. Our William
isn’t an orator. He never opens his mouth except
to put something into it. He has never been an
M P. and bored unoffending men to death by ful-
minating penny thunders destitute of lightning.
He never published any two-column letters in the
Herald, or inflicted on the world any still-born
volumes of “Australian Orations” originally de-
livered in tones like the roaring of a Scotch-born
bull. He has never suddenly stood up in pub-
lic and made a never - ending impromptu
speech whiob for months had been rehearsed
to hoarseness in the miserable—one of your
words, David -in the miserable gloom of a
lawyer’s deD, ladled out in pints to the “boys”
at the Criminal Sessions, and served out in sections
to the legal small-fry on circuit. David,—Black-
smith Beach has never wagged a jaw that nothiDg
could humble, that there might be demonstrated
in the sight of a set of pig-faced jurymen, and of
a heaven which has been too kind to you, the
dove-like innocence of a thousand hopeless horse-
thieves since turned loose on an otherwise peace-
able community. David Buchanan,— we tell you
that William Beach is not accountable for the
non-conviction of a legion of abandoned cow-
stealers, and for verdicts which have brought
more rum and sorrow to the home of the brute,
whom you eloquently defended when he was
charged' with kicking his wife. We don’t know,
David, whether Australia could stand two Wil-
liam BeAches. But the universe has room for
only one David Buchanan.
What may happen to a man who is down on his
luck. A poor sailor named Jennings has of late
been an outdoor boarder in Sydney Domain, and
the other day met some journeymen tailors from
the fashionable establishment of Messrs. Savage
and Gibson who took pity on the ragged mariner,
and, after sharing their dinners with him, pre-
sented him, one with a coat, another a hat, a third
a pair of trousers, and so on, until he at last
stepped out quite a new man and proceeded to
give the girls a treat upon the “ Block.” Before
he had taken two-and-a-half turns,' however, he
was arrested on suspicion of having stolen hts new
outfit, and brcause he could not tell the names of
i his patrons he was next day promptly sent up for
a fortnight in Darlinghurst Gaol. The ancients
i used to say: “It is cruel to confer favours on the
poor, for by so doing you merely prolong their
lives and their misery.” Indiscriminate oharity-
bestowers should make a note of that, and persons
who donate clothes should always be careful to
leave their osrds with the recipients at the same
time. Still, we do not unreservedly condemn the
police for putting the sailor into prison because he
was too well rigged out. Now that being fashion-
ably-dressed is a crime, we look forward with
much pleasure to seeing all the George-street
mashers step into the gaol-van.
♦
Who next ? The air of N.B.W. is heavy with
rumours. This is the season when the bank-
manager can be found neither at the office nor at
any of his various well-appointed suburban
homes ; the season at which the well-connected
lawyer with or without endless trust funds makes
no answer to his client’s urgent telegram but goes
away to see De Lesseps on the Panama Canal
question ; the season in which the real-estate
speculator, up to his neok in “syndicates” and
overdrafts, skips to the pleasant island of Hono-
lulu where extradition warrants run not and the
thermometer never exceeds 90. By and bye we shal i
see a" list of “ Clearances ” outside the shipping
column of the morning paper: “Mr.Zo-AND-zo,per
barque Hospodar, bound for the Republic ot Ecua-
dor. He took half-a-million. He was at onetime
much respected, and his absence is deeply regretted
by 14 building societies.” The Sydney land-manis,
the reign of mad speculation in suburban “build-
ing sites ” not big enough for single grave lots, is
culminating, and its history will be written at lei-
sure in Valparaiso, or—in gaol.
'
Sir Alexnder Stuart has, it is cabled, decided
to “ignore” the London Weekly Dispatch,
which lately libelled him. We are sorry for the
Dispatch. The proprietress, Mrs. Ashton Dilke,
is a widow, and it is sad to think that her
paper should thus be ruined. Abuse sometimes
kills people, but when a colonial potentate wants
to slay in one act a London weekly with a quarter-
million circulation and a history of, say 30 or 40
years, he has but to “ ignore" it, and the fatal
deed is done. Mrs. Dilke, therefore, must
now contrive to get her living out of the Referee,
the only other journalistic property left her by
her late husband. We trust that Alexander,
when he gazes upon the ruin he has made, will
now be meroiful. We do hope he will spare the
Referee, out of which the greatest turf-and-
athletic writer, “ Pendragon,” contrives to screw
his humble crust.
4
Remarked Mr. R. B. Smith, M.P., at his farewell
banquet The branch of the legal body to
which I am attached is, as the late Bir John
Dickinson (for rdany years a most distinguished
Judge) put it, not only an honourable but a noble
one, if its members maintain their dignity and
integrity.” Now, as Burdett has always had
plenty dignity, likewise sufficient integrity, it is,
of course, plain that he is not only honourable but
noble. Q.E.D. That is granted. But did Mr.
Smith quote the harmless platitude of Sir John
aforesaid—which, by the way, is as true with
regard to the profession of a fish-hawker as with
respect to that of an attorney-did he quote it, we
ask, apologetically and while overwhelmed with
sorrow because of the way in which certain of his
brother solicitors have been carrying on with
their trust funds lately ?


Perhaps it is because Easter falls later this
year than it has for nearly two centuries and a-
half, or elso on account of the increasing rage for
theso articles of beauty and, alasl also of cost;
but for whatever reas >n, Easter cards for the
coming season are more bright and beautiful than
anything shown in previous years. About the
most prominent caterers for the public taste in
this line, Messrs. R. Jolley and C >., of Sydney and
Melbourne, are exhibiting some cards whose
THE REVEREND JEFFERIS AND THE SYDNEY BACHELORS.
He found during the last course of lectures to young women that a con-
siderable number of young men were present, and now in anticipation of
his speaking to young men, he saw before him a large number of young
women desirous of hearing what he had to say about the young men. This
was ns it should be/ ✓ " '7T"O
The speaker then went on
to say, that if, bachelors must
live in boarding-house 3, they should
be careful not to run in debt, but pay
there way as they proceeded', always
keeping faith with the landlady.
In selecting their lodgings they
should take particular care to knosv
the character of the mistress and
those living .with her.
To many, of course, lodgings were a necessity,
»nd were of various degrees. They might live
expensively at tbe hotel, comfortably at a good
boarding-house, or they might have, through
misfortune or folly, to sleep on bare boards ah
the soup kitchen,
Or the grass of the Domain. He
would speak of the middle class of
Jodgings. In these, temptation and
danger was very much greater than
in the life at home.
And all this they could do with no one “’
tc touch their shoulder and say, “ Son,
brother, friend, you are on the high road
to the devil."”
It was pleasant, no doubt, to be
able to come and go as they liked, to
have a latchkey and open sesame to
their room at any hour.
Bisters were often liKpHsltlTS,
Fathers were apt to be strict, and the
mother watchful, , , The landlady of
the lodging-house had no claim on them,
(Hadn’t she, though I) /
Let them by all means have a
bedroom to themselves, even if it
were an attic. The evils of many
occupying one room, as was the
case in several lodging-houses in
Sydney, were very great.
\
They copld smoke thyir black
.pipes continually until the nico-
tine in it permanently weakened,
the heart. They could sip
strong .waters out of the flask
hidden away in a ehamber
drawer or take the drink at
hotel bars. 'J /
He would urge them, iu
conclusion, to read, meditate
and pray.
beauty shows that there is still a large class of
unconverted persons who set a large share of
their affections on things of this world. It is no
misuse of language to say that many of these are
more lovely than Burdett Smith, and more admir-
able than the phonography of Francis Abigail.
’ In the Crawford v. Crawford and Dilke
divorce ease, tbe chief witness was the petitioner,
Donald Crawford, and his evidence consisted of a
recital of his wife’s alleged admissions, (corrobo-
rated by extract*} from her diary,) which were to
the effect that Sir Charle3 Dilke visited her six
weeks after hjr marriage, took a fancy to her
‘ because she wai so like her mother,” and after-
wards took her to a home on Tottenham C ourt-
roal, where he seduced he:. Sabseq lently,
according to this interesting narrative, she
visited his houso, and was invited to take a
third place on the couch already apnroorlated
by Fanny, the reputed mistress of Sir Charles.
Mrs. Crawford did not like to do this, ,bht says her
narrative, “ I did it because ho seemed to wish it.”
Constant visits seem to have been made subse-
quently, hut oeased after some months’ continu-
ance, and nothing more would probably have
been heard of the baronet’s alleged treachery bad
not anonymous letters, attributed by Mrs. Craw-
ford to her mother, been sent to the iDjured hus-
band, who thereupon enquired of hia wife as to
their truth, and brought this suit in consequence
of the information his wife volunteered. The
other evidence given was by two domestics, one
of whom had, while the other had not, been aware
of Mrs. Crawford’s clandestine visits. The re-
spondent did not attempt to refute the petitioner’s
evidence, even by means of cross-examination,
nor did Sir Charles Dilke give evidenoe, his ooun-
sel, the Attorney-General, refusing to “put him
into the witness-box to be cross-examined as to
the indiscretions of his life, from which none of us
are free.” Counsel asserted that for tho reason
alleged they took upon themselves the responsi-
bility of his silence, and applied that he he dis-
charged from the suit because there was no evi-
dence to inculpate him. The judge, strictly follow-
ing precedent In his decision, dismissed the peti-
tion against the baronet as co-respondent with
coats, but granted a divorce to the petitioner on
account of his wife’s adultery with the co-respon-
dent against whom there was no evidence. Thus
Crawford’s evidence was accepted as proof that
his wife had committed adultery with Sir
Charles, but did not declare him guilty
of tho same misconduct, a decision whioh—
to use the words of an Eaglish lawyef—
“ d ust surprise everyone who is not sufficiently
learned to have lest his common-sense.” In any
case, Sir Charles Dilke does not come out of the
case with any credit to himself or the aristae,
raey of whioh he is a prominent member. If the
allegations are true, be Is a libertine of the first
water; if untrue, hia counsel admit their un-
willingness to allow him to undergo cross-exam.
ination “as to the indiscretions oMiis past life,”
from which, as they pathetically, if enigmatiqplly
admit, “we are none of us free.” We are told by the
society editor of a Sydney weekly that the arrival
of Sir Charles Dilke is looked for in Sydney with
considerable anticipations, and that he will be a
jrreat addition to the social festivities. So he will
be a great aldition—but millions would not tempt
us to say what sort.
A strengthening cordial— Wolfe’s Schnapps.


Personal
I tems
“ Rainey Graham ” was the name of the
woman.
So the great official is really off. He could
stand tho beef, he says, but deprecated the con-
stant mislaying of the hey of the side-board.
The Most Rev. Dr. Beresford, Anglican
■Ar°hbishop of Armagh, has just leavlDg
£91,000 to his relatives. Of such is the Kingdom of
Heavenl
Items of fashionable intelligence—Lord
Capelbrought to Australia six trunks of boots.
Kora Bertie, we believe, only brought live—one
pair in each portmanteau.
The Weekly Dispatch won’t apologise to
Sir Saul Samuel, and no more would wr. We
don t know why, but we would not. We'd as
soon get up and take in the milk.
Mr. Fred. Digby, a once prominent Chrlst-
church (N.Z ) pressmaD, has at last ditd of brain-
softening. He was the husband of Mdlle. Solange
Navaro, well-known in Australia as anactrets.
‘‘ The Sydney papers,” remarks the Lady,,
a London weekly, “gush over the dresses worn by
Lady Carington and her sister. They ate to
sweetly simple, and so many of them will wash I ”
Vanity Fair says that Prince George of
Wales is “the genius of the family.” We shouldn't
be a bit surprised. It occurred to us that he was
bound to grow into something extraordinary the
moment we saw him, in Sydney, “ fisting his duff ”
at the Mayor's ball.
More misery! Douglas B. W. Sladen, Ihe
Bird of the Rabbit-Drive,” is going to “re-
arrange, in a series of shilling volumes, the out-
P° uric B'S of his muse.” “Copious eiminations,”
itiB announced, have teen made. One has to te
thankful for small mercies.
We have it on the authority of a London
sheet of slobber “ that Her Majesty’s spirits wtre
?if better ”~ a fact upon which, we conceive,
the Queen’s wine merchant deserves to be warmly
congratulated. Probably the spiritual improve-
ot?^ da if 8 T 1 from tho advent of Mr. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.P., to English sassiety.
According to the Argos, the Bishop of
London, at SC. Paul’s Cathedral, recently preached
Sm? rmon ' * n 'which his reverend lordship said,
Ihe masses must be taiught not to bear their pri-
vations sulkily, but by true self-deuial to seek a
S lg p. l, n E'J rpose and a nobler life.” Ihe Bienop
has £lO,OOO a year and a palace to live in.
, The “demon” bowler was never noted
for his modesty as regards his own abilities. Bis
latest little egotism is backing himself to obtain
a hundred more wickets than our "Ted” Kraus
during the tour of the M C.C. Australian Eleven in
the old country. The latter, if he gets a fair
show from the “oratorical” captain, may, after
all, run rings round “ Spoff.” ’
The Melbourne Presbytery, having suc-
ceeded in driving the Rev. Charles Strong out of
the church altogether, have now interdicted bis
suocejsor, Rev. George Dods, 8.D., from preach-
vifrm The fact *? th s c the Scots’Church with its
£IUUU a year stipend (and pickings worth £lOOO
more) is coveted by, every mother s son of a “grim
Geneva minister” in the presbytery. Hinc, &3.
The Rev. Dr. Dale must indeed be a daisy,
for we find this in that rabidly atheistical paper,
Br ' w - Dale, of Birming-
ham, is said to havo resolved upon a visit to Aus
trana. He is one of the best parsons existing, and
deserves to receive a hearty welcome in these
.rTt 11 * clergyman, ho would do justice
to an atheist; and that is infinitely mo;e than can
be said of 99 per cont. of the cloth.”
ADIOS !
Good bye, A.D.C. I
Homeward, now, you fleet;
We shan’t miB3 your brain;
But we’Jl miss your feet.
You may say, with truth,
(Would you wish 'twere mort?)
That j ou’vo made a big
Impression on this shore.
That Viscount Hinton— another nobleman
gone wrong—whose peccadilloes furnished a par.
in cur last, is remarkable in more ways than one
His mother was i of particularly plebeian . xtrac-
tion, and she introduced him into this breathir a-
world exactly five months and 22 davs after hpr
marriage with Earl Poulett. That the impecunious
Hinton is heir-apparent to the earldom will be
very apparent to anyone who considers the cir-
cumstances. No one can question his t tie to his
Viotoria will be fortunate in having such
a creditable representative at the Colonial Exhibi-
tion as Dr. Patrick Moloney. The doctor is not
on l / a native of Melbourne-for so are Santhers!
ho 13 a brilliant
graduate of the University, an eloquent speaker,
an accomplished psychologist, no mean poet, and
—yes, perhaps the best conversationalist south of
the Equator- The Moloneys are all clever fellows,
is more, their hearts are as good as their
“I reverence the gum-tree far more than
I reverence the British oak, and I think more of
li a ? f . kan * ar °° a Qd blackfeilow than I
h c °at-of-arm?,” exclaimed Mr.
boy politician, at Sydney School of
Arts Debating Club, recently. And hollow frrnans
mingled with a noise as of a multitude of geese
alarmed at the prospect of danger to their goa-
iS§£H P fhJ e .‘L ho, i deoply ,. a loyal audience re-
shameless publication of disgraceful
Specimen of London journalism. (Price of
publication in N.S.W, £100,000,000.) “Mr. Louis
Engle publicly alludes to the death of Mr. Alexan-
der HendersoD, and comments upon his possible
state, in the opinion of all decent people!
ribaff allusions to the fate of the departed aredisl
tinctly improper, and, moreover, they do not come
Wed°?<, t s h c e „si ,k 01 tbat
We regret to announce the death of Lord
Stradbroke. We weren’t on violent terms of faml-
liarity with his lordship, but he fought at Vittoria
w ? a i am v an( i a ’ at | d woald have been at Waterloo
but for a broken leg. Consequently be is entitled
to be termed a rtysl soldier. Such a man is badiv
panted here, in Sydney, to stand in the detd y
breach, when it is made at Plnckgut, »nd defend
that venerable fortress with pike and culverin It
18 *rue that Baron Bob has augmented cur forces
with four orjve captains,-but we yearn fo! a
real soldier. We have seen these intrepid warriors
and we still yearn more than ever for a real sol-
Ear 1 Oardwell, who is just dead, was a man
or mark. He it was who suspended Governor
oJ bcial who hanged Gordon the Wesleyan
minister, whose enemies said he “administered
the sacrameßt in brains and blood.” By the way
the olhcer who was compelled to superintend the
execution—t e., the legalised murder—of Gordon
h ? 8 Q been a resident of Sydney. As Bec?etarv
?hB S Ahair r War, Cardwell’s name is linked with
of.Buichase and Short Service. But
the most notable action of his life was Xn
fnJ^ 08 .William Makepeace Thackeray for Oy-
? ons defe ated him by »i 5
votes. He hid his head in a cpronet ”in 1874.
Beach’s exhibition of rowing on the Yarra
last week was a miserable fiasco, It was after- 1
wards excused on the ground that there was
something wrong with the boat. Whatever the
boat may have been, it is quite certain that the
man in it shaped like a novice and looked
wretchedly uncomfortable. Once Beach appeared
on the point of capsizing. The onlookers ex-
pressed as much contempt for his style as admira-
tion of hia muscular development. But perhaps
they were uncharitable. When Beach undertook
to instruct the public ia the art of rowing he was
suffering from two presentations, three addresses,
four visits to points of interest in Melbourne, 1400
introductions, and 98 “good healths.”
It would be simply leaving Sir Chas. Dilke
in a fool’s paradise to bide from nim the treatment
the Wentworth (N.8.W.) people are determined
to give him when he calls on them in the course of
hia Australian tour. “ Through life,” says the
local Advocate, “he will be marked as a man
who eacaped the consequences of his crime by the
niceties of legal technicalities. Ho will be shunned
by pure wives and dreaded by honourable hus-
bands, and when he ” In fact, when he, trusting
to the hospitality of the country, invites himself
to a “hop” in the Wentworth Mechanics’lnsti-
tute, every dancer, taking the clay pipe out of his
mouth, rolling down the sleeve of his flannel shirt,
and giving his arm to a tip-tilted danseuse, will
vacate the premises. It is only fair that Sir Charles
should be apprised of this.
It appears that the deputation of Victorian
aborigines who waited upon Hon. Graham Berry
prior to his departure for England presented him
with, among other things, a lyre-bird’s tail. This
Graham at first accepted from the black satirists
with some misgivings; but his inquisitive feelings
soon got the better of him, and then, addressing
King Barak, the chief, who had been the spokes-
man, he said: “The lyre-bird has many pleasant
memories for me, and as I gaze upon the delicate
plumage in my house in London, previous to goiDg
| for a mash in Rotten Row, I shall be carried back
V?„,K Cy t 0 « newspaper office in Collins-street,
Melbourne, which in future days, when exterior
art-adornmenti fitly represent mternal virtues,
shall possess above its doors this beautiful native
i£ eternal Sarffi’’ character oE truth engraven
Mr. A. B. Rae, of the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Independent, was the good-humoured Presby-
terian gentlemanwho, at the St. Patrick’s dinner
«iere, proposed the health of the Pope. What A.
when he next saw the chairman, was
possibly a two-column ad. to stand for a quarter.
Mifi p a tw e a t us *i e i ? ou > * 8 ’ In appearance, rather
IfJ&L * * kca miniature, and is a Scot of infinite
ertaiument and variety. His paper is a power-
up partly io circus-type, and
t he latest news anent the prices of boots
» l fh et8 ’ .. Bu J : Sydney telegrams are
tbere; .. and 80 is generally in an assertive
UlBlt ® Paragraph (to keep up the ex-
citement) about the dog in Howiok-street. Mr.
Rae once lectured on Burns at the Masonio Hall,
with John Davies in the chair. And having thus
th flpry 88 the robins did the
Babes of the Wood with leaves, we leaves him.
That godliest of papers, the Melbourne
D.T., says of a wea thy South Australian merchant
w£oDi,i ec £ a ®i ed: ~ ! The thought that the vast
wealth he had acquired would be subject to a duty
of 1 per cent, preyed upon his mind, so he deter-
to hand over his property by deed of gilt to
his son, a fine, healthy young fellow. This done,
he was relieved of a great weight, though black care
once more oppressed him when someone cruelly
ina'+u 8 ! « d K! th * E ’ aft w. r ? U i the son mi ßht die first,
and the objectionable duty would be claimed. As
afterwards died somewhat
sudden y, and the obnoxious tax had to be paid by
merchant. So here the declining
fbe cautious merchant were embittered by
tuo thought that, after all,, the State would get
T?m e v. £ i°vP 3 il of J 1 * 8 accumulated savings.” The
L.T. had better stop printing stories of this kind.
, will offend its readers, who are
pretty nearly all of the dead merchant’s kidney.
Both the Maitland, poisoners who killed
3-- H. Keep are- now dead. Mrs. Keep, the
widow of the murdered man, died in Darlingnurst
last September ; on Saturday last the elder
poisoner, Marv Ann BurtOD, died in gaol after an
■operation. When sentenced Burton said, “ lam
innocent of the crime ; all will have to appear
before an impartial judge one day, when He will
not say that lam guilty. God knows who have
spoken truth and who have spoken false, and
there has been a deal of false swearing here ”
Mrs. Keep also declared her innocence. Subse-
quently, however, Burton confessed that it was
'!*£. a th« e JT,H° p f olBoned Keep. Mrs. Burton was
f he klnd ,. of woman whom we’d not have
y k ® d a mother-in-iaw. We are rather glad to
she gone to Heaven to join the
rest of the repentant murderesses ; at the same
time we trust that the ladies there have a compart-
hemBeiV6a wbenc9 gentlemen are rigidly
... Mrs. Howard Vincent, in her newly-pub-
book, ” Forty-thousand Miles over Land
and Water, says that the North Island of N.Z is
Sw a 0 r n B^ and sterfle desert when compared to the
prosperity and population of the South Island.
The authoress spent about a fortnight in New
Zealand, and witu the usual self-sufficiency of the
writer upon the colonies who pays a flying visit
to us. Straightway went Homo and wrote a book,
by tl }, e above extract, is almost as
Smnrli-nrt Q£ eana ' n ° r th o IUCUbratiODS Of Mr.
Smorltork. We really cannot see why authors
write up Australia should come out
a minutes’ conversation with
Enniker. and a brief glance at R. Burdett-Smitb
should enable all Englishmen, with any pretensions
to literary ability, to write a volume elegantly
descriptive of Australians as they are not, which
seems to be about all that celebrated litterateurs
who have come out here on a return ticket, have
been able to do up to the present.
They sey that the KiDg of Bavaria, when
he travels from one palace to another, to see his
girl, does so in a manner superior to that of the
Yankee auctioneer. Newton. We had thought,
when we saw Mr. N.’s turn out, that nothing but the
Lord Mayor’s coach (for which we have always had
a gloomy sort of respect) could eclipse it in splen-
dour. The following, however, from an English
paper, has somewhat disturbed our faith in old
recollections “ Out of the darkness of the night
there suddenly flashes upon the astonished sight of
the belated traveller a sledge, fashioned like a
golden swan with outstretched wings, and lighted
by a brilliant electric light. Within, reclining on
richly-embroidered cushions of blue velvet, is
seen the pale-faced King, in whose artistic hat
gleams a splendid agrafe of brilliants.” Yet to
think, that while "the artistic hat” would alone
suffice to get a man six months in this country, a
hundred workmen have to be constantly employed
stump-extractiDg and otherwise fixing the road
over which this mad regal rascal travels. After
all it is finer to be a king than have a house in
Macloay-street, Sydney, and a man in second-hand
gaiters and wash-leather gloves to drive you, of a
morning, to the office.
Last week we mentioned that poor Peter
Campbell was pining for another glimpse of the
green fields, and writhing under the irksome re-
straint of four stone walls. Ere (he ink upon our
paper and the tears upon our cheek were fairly
dry, the long-looked-for deliverance came and
Peter was again a free man. It gives us pleasure
unspeakable to find that one year and nine months
of cruel incarceration have in no wise crushed the
grand old bush missionary. Only in one respect
has ho suffered. Twenty-one mouths of enforced
temporanco must have made him more amenahi.
to the seductive influence of rum than he used tn
s tnlp^ iroBpel ,^ ayB V Otherwise the onetime
sturdy Peter would not have been picked m» in 2
drowsy condition from the Melbourne pavement
2?® ~ ay . last eek - The beat dealt gently
him next morning Peter admitted he was “tiMv >'
onrt i?i= Catcd i,; b the air of freedom, probabTv
6 a PP e arance seemed to touch the
heart of the Bench. “Been here before’’ nr 8
gnlrad Mr. Call. “ Net for this ,” said the sergeant'
Ihen Peter was let loose upon the world 6
second time within three days. We are expecting
to hear more of him shortly. He is advertised to
lecture on “The Apostle Peter in Prison." to
Sir^ha^lesr)ilkeis cursing the day when
Mrs. Crawford’s conscience (“conscience ’ti« «
bad thing, said Bhakespeare) Inveigled her into
admitting certain alleged peccadilloes to her out
raged husband. The cause celebre appears to have
extinguisher upon the Radical baronlt
One London journal plainly insinuates that Mr*
Brett > w ,b° tried the case, was in collusion
on both sides to whitewash St?
Charles so far as means permitted. If, says this
«Sh! ant iWV 7® quote lts remarks in full
elsewhere—the lady s self-accueations weie false
Ph!oc Came *i-t th®t the honourable member for
Chelsea sat in court, and allowed her character
w glv Ti a TC wben his word would have saved
b® r - Alas I there were potent reasons whv Sir
haulhlW a m H ode f ln tbe background. I? only
half the tales about him are true, his social career
would supply the Pali, Mall Gazette with five
column revelations” every day for the next
year. The eloquent Dilke may be a friend of the
people and a lover of his feilow-man. But asa
lhl e r ° f bis fellow-woman he takes the cake. By
the way, the Justice Brett-who played a doubtful
part in this trial is the gentleman who left off
Valentine Baker with a soft 12 months of cham-
pagne and chicken for his military giddiness in *
railway carriage. y gmainess m a
In a letter from prison to the editor of the
Methodist Times, Mr. i-tead, editor of the Pall
jJall, wrote:— Henceforth i shall never say to
anyone, Be a Christian.’ It is not Christians whS
will save the world. No, nor even churches. What
we want is not to be Christians, but to be Christ '
Christian has come to mean with many an infini-
tesimal semblance of a shadow of Christ and
whole ocean of self. Christian has come to mean
We ha Z e got t 0 be real Christs!
or the world will never be saved. A whole gulf
cuts us off from all but a few of our feliow-
creatures. Vet we are one with them; one with
tho thief, the harlot- that is, we ought to be. And
until we are, we are not Christs. As loDg as any
supposed goodness, or rank, or ability. interruntH
the freest possible flow of sympathy, born of con-
sciousness of complete identity with the weakest
and meanest of our kind, we are out of Christ
even out of his humanity. . . This work [of
saving the lost] cannot be done by subscriptions
Christ did not bribe a superfluous aDgei bv
liberal subscriptions in order to be crucified by
deputy; neither can individual Christians do it
£ depu , ty V £ u „ are not ca Hed to all kinds of
this work, but all are called to some branch or
other, even if it only be the witnessing for Christ
by a sympathising lemk or word to thlsorrowffg
and the outcast. When I was ln Coldbath Fields,
a poor thief who occupied the next ceil to mine
w ho was in for passing counterfeit coin, was more
of a Christ to me than the chaplain. ‘ How long
y °h for ? whispered as we tramped along
Ihe echoing corridor to morning chapel. ‘ Three
months, I replied. * Never mind,’said he, kindly;
•three months will soon be over.’ Poor chsp, he
had still a year to serve, and a fellow-feeling
makes one wondrous kind! That is just what
Christ bad-a fellow-feeling. And that unex-
P e " te ,f;^« het^i WOrd T PS a ® leam of heaven’s
own light in the chill and gloomy gaol. How dif-
ferent was the chaplain’s greeting, • Don’t you
h« nk A y^®r lucky ? off so cheap V said
be. And that was all. The burden of sin and suf-
fering lies heavy on the world. We must bear it
J.HfiJSS brother, for our sister, or they will perish
utterly. Everyone is surrounded by others to
w horn he or she is called to be a Christ.”
t™ c^L th ® following letter from the
Times:- The judgment of Mr. Justice Butt in
ni?bJ?o ent ca . B ® °f Crawford v. Crawford and
Dilke suggests a precedent fora collusive divorce
Eult on the lines of the old fictitious actions of the
common law— e g , recoveries. A and his wife B.
desiring to be mutually released, the procedure
nlnvl be R a lfi 0 r : f y way °, f rehearsal to avoid
perjury, B would make a confession to her hus-
band of her imaginary peccadilloes with a certain
X A would then file his petition, making X co-
I^>^- e . D^ a ? d ? n th ® bearing would testify to
his wife s confession* Neil her B’s nor X*s counsel
would crosf-examine A, and no further evidence
J? e necessary. Judgmant for a decree nisi
would then be pronounced, but it would be found
that X was not guilty of the offence imputed to
him. For sake of convenience, the usher of the
mi ? h J bea Btandin ff co-respondent, or the
fiction might be carried out by resuscitating
Messrs. John Doe and Richard Roe for the pu£
Pi? Be A» tefty be objected that it would be open to
the Queen s Proctor to intervene. Custom would
.May not the same objection apply to
the ease of Crawford v. Crawford and Dilke?’ ”
Another correspondent, commenting on the
above, cynically remarks that there is only one
objection to the foregoing' admirable and useful
scheme of collusive action for divorce founded
upon the case of Crawford v. Crawford and Dilke.
as .. can be judged at present, only
a person of position can play the tart of the
co-respondent. Any one not having “ position ”
7,?iH d to have very unpleasant things
s ad to him by the Judge, and might even havo to
er dure very disagreeable practical consequences.
Bad as things are, it may be hoped that the num-
*bhLPfr,S^MODS*ot.u P° slti °n” willing to assimilate
to J hat occupied by Sir Charles
Dilke is small. These, however, are days in which
privilege tends to disappear, and with a little judt-
cious agitation for equality we may get rid of the
nrnP+in£i £^P a , i 8 1? now forms the only
practical obstacle to Omega’s” nobly conceived
scheme for the extension of human liberty. But
by’ should not a perpetual co-respondent
be appointed in the interests of the “ nobility ?”
VoUtCouM easily get a German prince to take the
Three burglars, who had robbed a baronet
and taken part in an assassination, were hanged
off one scaffold the other day in England by Berry,
the official man-butcher, who was allowed by a
logical society to Blay In two weeks
10 ot the canaille. Berry hss an assistant in tbe
person of Sir Claude de Creepigny, an English
South-country baronet who has taken to the busi-
ntsB under the pseudonym of “Charles Maldon,”
not for gain, but for mere amusement. In other
words, as this blue-blooded person apparently
loves murder, he has taken to afsisting the hang-
man and tying the arms of the low-born who
alone are sent to the slaughterhouse—well-bred
murderers are always insane. When this lofty
?t?i e^w„ g 1 0 * s u abo . ufc breaking tbe necks of
JP£ ole tariat he stays at the beet hotels—the
chief haDgman puts up at the gaol. We are glad
Bee on *i? £ °ur ‘‘betters” trying to earn
tus livlDg, even though to do so he has to wade up
to his neck in blood. Perhaps when things take
a turn people may give him a position on
the gallows of quite another sort. What a
moJavoS® 7 n ’ t , con / er an assistant hang-
manship on all Australian grovellers after titles!
De CrespigDy, Bart., who is described as a “young
? a^P f . B Po rl ]"F appearance,” is, it is said, soon to
be High Sheriff of His county, where he will have
rt n nity P f wall owing in gore to his heart’s
content. Crespigny’s fad is noted with surprise by
the society papers; but there Is nothing new in
members of tbe upper ten having a weakness
£f I Vh ;!C^ lb !£i 10D8 ’ courtly George Selwyn, one
of the leading men of fashion of his day, hardly
ever missed one of them. He travelled to Paris to
witness the execution of Damiens, who was put
to death under circumstances of horrible cruelty
for attempting the life of Louis XV. The Diarists
say that on that occasion, while pressing too near
the scaffold, he was repulsed by Sanson, the exe-
cutioner ; but on his exclaiming that he bad
travelled all the way from London to Paris to
witness the execution, he was at once desired to
take up a more convenient position, and was
treated with every distinction and honour. Si lwyn
had another characteristic of the man of fashion
MR. HOLT’S BOLT.
The authenticity of the foregoing letter is! in our eyes, considerably discounted by
the fact that it bears date 1st April. Still, it is impossible to say to what lengths a re-
spectable man might not be driven by rumours of the kind alluded to.


„ .lav He liked to pocket the public money
of to-aay. ntk g 0 far aB precedent
for naude *de Oreapigny'a taste for
v. er should certainly not interfere with his
ha S either in Public life or in soclety-though
BUCC ®fn hardlv imagine even the most degraded
!SSs terAft
SSSsiS
r&£H S“™r&-p“s
“fiord Bo&bOT aMLord cariwrton seem
THE EARL OF ROSEBSRY.
fair samples of the new generation of nobility-
Solidity of thought and manner was the Prominent
characteristic of the former regime; affability
verging upon gush, and universal—almost hysteri-
cal-appreciation of everything and
are the most prominent attributes of the coming
generation of hereditary legislators. |( lt was Lord
Kosebery who sent that historical well done
wire, when N.S.W. embarked in the goat-and-
glory hunting business, and since that date he has
been ever engaged in plastering marmalade on to
one or other of the toadies. The only way in
•which this youthful peer ean be adequately re-
warded is by the offer to form some part of Aus-
tralia (say Pinchgut or Goat Island) into a separate
kingdom and instal him as the first ruler.
John B. Gough, the great temperance
orator, who did more good in his lifetime than
most men, and died on the loth February last,
must have had ’em pretty .bad. We have been
reading his autobiography, wherein he de-
scribes the physical condition to which he had
been reduced by a long course of dissipation .
*■ i turned to my work broken-hearted; paralysed
in energy, feeling how low I had siink in the
THE LASE JOHN B. GOUGH,
esteem of prudent
denly, the small iron Dar 11 b Btill barder-
to move; 1 felt it move, feel it-yes,
yet the thing would myhand; thea 1
feel it— tearing lt lay< a curiiog slimy snake,
dropped it—ana t , shavings rustle, as the
1 c uldi hear ore ml 1 If it had been
horrible thing wrii minded it. I was never
>‘ I should have called some one
Rfraid oi a snake . ave kiUed it . i should not
to look at it, lco thing Bat I knew it was
have been terrified at a . fc wa(J with itB
a COl „ d ’tf its forked, darting tongue, curling in
green eyes, its iox , gg] and tho horror filled
all its B i™ t y fiair seemed to stand up and shiver,
m V “S h Ain flft from the scalp to the ankles, and
1 groaned out!*"cannot fight this, though! Oh,
myGolt I shall dial I cannot fight it.”' We
don’t wonder at J. B. G.’s turning temperance lee-
turer after that.
In the Masai Land, the men keep the
secret of making fire to themselves on the suppo-
sition that, if confided to the women, the latter
would be masters. The experience of Sydney
husbands contradicts the suppositions of these
savages; the woman may know how to make a
fire, but she pretends ignorance, and, being boss,
the old man is compelled to get up first or go to
work empty.
The Victorian Government is considering
the advisableness of adopting a system of allow-
ing persons found guilty of first offences of a
petty nature to' remain outside the gaol on proba-
tion. When the simple shop girls annexes a few
yards of lace and any before-time honest man com-
mits an error, why should they be degraded out
of hope of redemption by being thrown into pri-
son to herd with brutal felons ? Why should they
not rather be allowed a chance of resuming the
narrow track under State supervision ? To our
mind the idea has some advantages over the lash
theory.
Another fine fad of the N.S.W. Telegraph
Department has just gone bung. After a careiul
trial of three months, the system of prepayment
of telegrams by postage stamps has proved to be
a most successful failure. This we predicted from
the start. Eiucated at the public expense, so to
speak, our telegraphic experimentalists, with the
very best intentions, no doubt, indulge their Quix-
otic notions; their bleeding country has to Btand
the racket. If the experiments are successful, tho
glory is theirs; if they sre failures, the loss is ours.
“ Heads I win, tails you lose," is the safe system
of their play. A few years ago something like
£4OOO was slopped away by the telegiapbie scien-
tists in the introduction of Wheatstone automatic
instruments, and after a most disastrous run of
12 months, or so, it was discovered that
the system was totally unsuited to the long
and badly-insulated lines of the colony, and
the costly instruments were therefore relegated
to the bottom Of the store-cellar, where they have
probably rusted and rotted ever since. The next
fad tried was the delivery of telegrams by mes-
sengers on tricycles, but beyond affording much
amusement for the street larrikins, who used to
“ hang on behind,” and frequently monopolise
the three-legged steeds altogether, this smart
notion fared no better than the other. But the
Treasury paid the piper all the same. The repay-
ment of messages by specially-printed telegraphic
stamps was the next idea introduced, and this
proved to be such a complete success that a high
oflicial was enabled to skip the country in a few
months’ time, and it was calculated that a station-
master's billet would soon be as lucrative as that
of a Psalm-singing bank manager or a night
policeman. As this proved too much ]oy for the
colony altogether, our bold innovators took a
rest, and during the spell divers wise men were
sent over to Melbourne to take stock of the doings
there The result was that a barefaced plagiarism
of the Victorian system of prepayment of tele-
grams by postage stamps was put forward here as
In original idea of our own wiseacres; the rea-
son 'given for the charge being that it would
facilitate the public business, and do away
with the disastrous blocking ot the lines occa-
sioned by balancing the accounts between the
various stations every morning. Grandfather
Norton, who happened to be Postmaster-General
at the time, even went so far as to state in the
Home that several business men had waited on
him and prayed for the innovation on this parti-
cular ground. Now, however, we are coolly told
that it was started to provide a safeguard for the
revenue and put a check on the commission of
frauds, the inference being that fraudulent prac
tices prevail throughout this erratic department.
However, it is now admitted to be a failure even
in these respects, and if we mistake not, one
officer is-er very recently was-in trouble
over some monetary muddles which this sapient
system failed to prevent. After such a disastrous
career in the experimenting line one would
naturally imagine that cur crushed innovators
would hide their diminished heads tor a time, but
nothing appears to bo farther from their thoughts.
Having recovered from the fatigue of his picnic
tour on the ” Continong,” Mr. Superintendent
Cracknel! has started a new scheme for carrying
telegraph wires in an up and down fashion througn
the city. The credit (if,; any) of this invention
is claimed for the Department, but as a matter
offset, the idea is as old as a Christy minstrel
wheeze, as this identical scheme was laid before
the directors of the Bell Telephone Company in
New York some six years ago, and the plans of
the same are still in their hands. The directors of
this company (amongst yrhom are some of the
shrewdest and most experienced men in New
York) decided, however, that the scheme would
never do; and yet this is the thing that hasalre dy
been started in Bydney atk cost of say £5OOO. Tne
probabilities are that it will cost much more, and
that as soon as it ii completed it will suddenly be
found to be as' great a failure as the rest of the
fads which from time to time hive brought so
much ridicule on the Telegraph Department, and
have been the cause of such a scandalous waste
of the public revenue. If our oific als must go on
introducing new notions, let them try the'r hands
on the formation of a system of telegraphic des-
patch which will enable an urgent telegram to
gravel a tiifie faster than a wooden-legged man
can kick his hat.
People are loud in their praise of the merits
of Wolfe’s schnapps.
is the science of the beautiful.
The meed of merit for prjmoting personal
sB3thetics is due to J C. Ayer and Co., whose in-
comparable Hair Vigor is a universal beautifler
of the hair. Harmless, effective, agreeable, it has
taken rank among the inaispensible articles Of the
toilet to Bounty locks it gives luxuriance; and
withered haiis it clothes with the hue of youth.
Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINB
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE"
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werthelm Sewing Machine,
I BEAIjE.
The 11 Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHAULEMONT et CIE.«
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are now
open in the Royal Arcade.
Messrs. C. & Co. have engaged an effi3ient Btaff
of Artists lor all branches in art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have been trained in the
leading European establishments. ....
Mr. Thomas C Cleave (who has had the dis-
tinguished honour of photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H.s the
Prince and Princess of Wales, many members of
the Royal Family, also the Prince Imperial and
other n'otables) will persinally superintend the
Bt Our° portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
and Excellent, and we invite inspection of our
work exhibited in the Vestibule, leading to our
Studios. CHARLEMONT et CIE.
I
TURNER ROSINS ON & 00.’$
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
marked cloth hall,
478 Georgs-straat,
Established 1864.
oar LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
BAB " STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY, "
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER*.
tew 2 - Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
y— * JJUOfcS^j
E
LIAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hav e your Umbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
(41 George Street,
i Briokfleld Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
I Parasols made to match cos-
tumer. Benalra neatly axe-
eute/l
A
LIMITED,
356 George-streef,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
356 Ceorsre-street, Sydney.
THB N£W FURNITUKB
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
30 CASTLEREAGH-BTREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
tas, Lawson Bros Co.,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Fu nitnre, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
eash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS' TRIMMINGS, &c,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. JoneS,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & GO*
POME &OT-CEEAMBBB?*
CASTLEREAGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
E
VBKYBODY I
SHOULD USB f
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOITR
IT 18 MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI tleor are-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
WALLOW AND ARIELI'S
.T-1
BISCUITS aid cases, treacle and coldeh strip,
Self-raising iErated Flour,; Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOE SUPEKIOKITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
i ft A have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.8., 1880;; Special Gold Medal
*• * an j geyen Eirst Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents i W. «. ARIELL * CO., B*3 end B*o Kent-street.


m H 1 4 T 8 « ROT A L*
JL Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gaknkb and Musoroyi.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. 1,. Goodman.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. H. H. Vinoent.
FIFTH WEEK of
WILLIAMSON. G MINRR, and MTTSG HOVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
DARK DAYS.
DARK DAYS.
SATURDAY, APRIL 10, .
first production in Auitraiia of Merritt and Con-
quest's intensely excit'ng sensational drama,
THE CRIMES OF PARIS.
Admission: Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
Gaiety* theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B N. Jones.
27ch WEEK of the DAM PIER SEASON.
AN ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
EVERYBODY DELIGHTED.
FUN, FAST and FURIOUS.
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
EVERY EVENING until further notice, will ba
produced the Farcial Comedy, in three acir,
THE GREAT PINK PEaRL.
Manager for Mr. Dampier FRED. UUNTH ER.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Hay market.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening Muring the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra ohairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Kight. Grand Cjncert Sp’rituel,
at 7 o’clock.
GAD 1 M Y
0 V
MUSIC.
Bole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hiscoiks.
85 tb WEEK 85'h
And st.ll the popular and Fa3bionable Resort.
Once again we record another Great Hie of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HItiCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Soecialty Union.
OUR NEW PROGRAMME.
Terminating with the latest “ undone ” sensition,
JUST JN TIME.
E
XHIBITION BUILDING.
MONDAY NEXT, APRIL 12rB,
Great Intercolonial Six Davs’ and Nights
WALKING CONTEST!
EDWARDS v. SCOTT
EDWARDS v. SCOTT
- EDWARD 5 v. SCOTT
for £4OO and the Championship of Australia.
A FULL BAND
will Dlay selections every afternoon and evening.
P REFRESH MENTS
by L. FolffisY, White Horse Hotel.
Dooiß open immediately alter the stroke of 12
on Sunday midnight | the contest commences at
5 minutes past 12. . T _,_
Admission— ONE SHILLING ;
Inner Circle (Chairs) 2s Trams stop at the doors.
L
YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch.
WESTERN” TOUR.
Parkas— Thursday, Friday, Sat., April 8,9, and 10
Forbes-Monday, Tuesday, Wed , April 12.115.14
Grenfell— Thursday and Friday, April 15 and 16
Cowra— Saturday and W -dnesday, April 17 and 21
Carooar— Monday and Tuesday, April 19 and 20
Youug— Thurs., Sat., Monday, April 32, 31. 26
Yass. Junee, Wagga, &e., tr follow.
J STANLEY, Con«eitina Doctor,
• Bathurst, Importer of Musical
Instruments aDd FittiDgs of every
description, Anglos for hot climates.
Extra Loud Steel for dancing, with
levers screwed down. Price lists rost
free. 20 per cent, under By&ney rates.
h
[ Testimonial.]
“ Mitchell, August 10, 1885.
“The concertina you did up tor me
is in splendid order. I am much
pleased with it. I will get you all the
custom I can o»t here, as I consider
anyone buying off you saves sj. in
the pound, besides getting a superior
article
“Daniel Green.”
[Testimonial.!
“ Parkes, January 31,1886.
“Received the concertina (made to order) quite
safe It is the best in this town. The only thin* I
don’t like is that all the girls are tailing in love
with it instead Of me. It is a credit to you, and
the more I play it the more I like it and the better
it seems to get. No one would buy rubbish that
ever saw one of yt ur concertinas.
“James A. Pender.”
FjLIY’B sydnly gymnasium,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET,
INSTRUCTION givtn every day la Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrest'liny, Ftneirg, &c. For
terms, <&*•., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
Good Complexion and
Nico Hands.
NOTHING adds so much to personal appear-
ance as a bright, clear complexion and a soft
skio. With these, the plainest features become
attractive; without them the handsomest arc but
coldly impressive.
fbe prevalent use of powders and pigments,
proves the value p]?.c,d upon ihe complexion.
Kememberirg this, aid knowing the immense
amount of injury that is caused by the use of
powders, wehavemuch pleasurein drawiagatten-
tion to a preparation which may be used without
tho pHgbttst hesitation, and which will produce
the *tf jot desired. Its action is bated upon puri ly
phyelological eff ;et, and thfl blonde and brunette
alike may me it. Powders are no lorger mces-
aary to buiJd up pretentions to a beautiful com-
plexion, for the lace assumes that clear, trans-
parent, healthy look—that natural look—free from
every disfigurement wh'ch cause ladies si much
concern.
This preparation is now within the reach of all,
and by sending a stamped addressed envelope to
Doctor Von Geisberg, Box 18, Post Offics, Hay-
Iharket, Sydney, any taiy will reenve free,
through the post, the formula and full- instruc-
tions
COOLALTA WINES,
BILVER MEDAfc BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling ’a.)
TO THE MEMRERS OFTRK AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and gentlemen,—l respectfully solicit your
Votes and latereet as a Director of your Society,
of which I am and have been a member for 26 years
I think it due to you to speak with no uncertain
voice with respect to the action of the Board in
establishing a branch in England +'or tho taking of
English risks. I believe the step to be unwise, and
that the opinion of the members should have
obtained prior to adopting such a momentous
charge in the policy of the society. I deem this
the more Incumbent on the directors as the deci-
sion was NOT the unanimous vote of the
Board, BUT ONLY CARRIED bv the votes of a
MAJORITY of the directors. For a fuller ex-
pression of my principles, sea my address to the
members ia the Sydney Morning Herald of 23 d
and 2ft h, Daily Telegraph of 24 ,h, Bulletin and
Town aDd Country Journal of 27cb, and Evesiog
rNewa of 27ch March.
FREDK. LEE.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of diseases, even
the most stubborn, particu-
larly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touch,
most in a few days-so that
this is net only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, but one of the noblest
medicines that God ever gave
to man.—The Rev. J. Wesley.
Glad tidings of cerlain re-
lief to sufferers from seminal
weakness by means of Foot’s
Voitalo Appliances.
The Voltaic Belt, as advised,
Is really a galvanic battery,
as it is commoply termed, its
mode of application is so well
known that I need not w*sto
space in expatiation.
W“
* MM
9.
I
These Voltaic Belts are a certain, safe, and
speedy cure for Liver Complaint, Indigestion,
Seminal Debility, Nervous Headaches Lumbago,
Sciatica, Dyspepsia, Palpitation of the Heart,
Heartburn, D'zziaess, Lack of Will Power, For-
getfulness, Irritability, and all complaints of a
nervous nature.
The price in future will be 17«. 6d. instead of
60u, as formerly. As I have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at less
than one-third their former price.
The above amount includes medical advice, if
required.
Apply at once to Dr. FOOT, Box 916, G.P.0.,
Bydney, with P.O. Order for 17s. 6L, and your
belt will be despatched by the return of post.
Dr. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, 8k in and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 1864; Member of the Royal College or
Surgeons, London, 1859.
ORGAN'S !
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
tf
“SMITH.
BRUCE & MASSEY
i) •■■«•■■>»!
197 Piit-st, Sydney.
SCHWJSIIZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most qptritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast i
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invsllds and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a haeakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India ana the Colonies, kcepina for years in all climates, being Id
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling wat«r, and palatable without miik.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort In the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, art Is. 6<2., 3$ , ss. 6(7.., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
S6HWVITZEB & CO., 10 ADAM-BTBEBT, ST HAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FLEMINGS
KKL TABLE
5
* ■
FIRST GRADE,
iTYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading 1 Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT ROW GOOD !
i
\ .14"- ‘ o
w .. )‘w _ -'.-‘ *5.
V, ;.-- ‘V ,. \\\‘\\§\ : ,
‘ : ’ " ‘ ‘\i-\\"§\\
a , “'43-?- w» 2» g : <51: \ "r \ :19??? "574 y W '9?-
¢.~n,<mw¢wwm« +
:3 / ‘\ ' ”a“ «ﬁx/1." \‘Q‘Z; Kt},'3‘\y'
,3. \ <:=' $1 I {‘_’-"x‘3‘i ‘70,,” \‘v '
a“: ..n. ‘ f = ‘ ' .. '2’ K ‘
., \ ”W W \qmﬂ f\:\ .’
H , ww;[ «21’ ; .
\s' 1‘ Wllam\ 4%; J” D We "
i: J :95»; are?” V '76't“ A
\\ . "1 ’ \. .- ' ‘WW‘T’l/Iu‘;ﬁ’ ‘* .
_‘; s :4 J 2‘ v" i ‘ \i ‘- \\>
SJ”; 9 £ka 57‘ __ ‘ \A‘M ‘\. ’V/I~\\
$;;;\ 4—. \‘\‘ ' " ‘M‘:
:1 x :2. .A I ‘\._ I‘::i‘\“
’ :\%ﬂg‘ * ‘k “"1 I‘i'“ "
N %Yﬂh «Win-9 ’5 ‘\ \\\
_—‘,~ -'—"—'*A, §~= ‘
:11T-Rliﬁ’; J ~
3: A , ﬂ-ﬁvﬁ
FLEMING’S
WAG6ONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIR EMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGON3,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
We invite Inspection of our Large a d Va-ied Stock of all
cljuses of Furni ure.
SlisS
&
VCa
i
TOlnHlh.imijjifflTTll
rprffwwfrwn djimm!
m
w
£l_£v<V j
<■ F
SR
gggmUMW
a>!
Vt
The above is a sample of our 30-guinea complete Drawing-room Suite eonsi<din»
of Couch, 0 Chairs and 2 Arm Chairs in solid Walnut Frames an™ cohered 7u am
colour Worsted Rep, Cornice Pole and Brackets, Pair of Lace Curtains, Pair Lustres
Gilt Pier Glass, Whatnot, Occasional Table, Marble Top Bide Board with Plate GIS
Hearth Rug,Spetior room ?2 x°li, Pm^CurS^Bandeand Lam and Fsre Ir ° D?
campbeliTbrothbes,
ROYAL furnishing arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)
ť
The “LOUIS"
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar- arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand mtewninable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact .
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on,
application. >
*
wr sh . ,ng <
Genuine;
Economical
0<
L E-conomicai
Cocoa
Makers to the Queen
ŧ


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T heatbe Royal— " Dark Days ••. •• • • P» 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ The Great Pink Pearl ••
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe
Academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels •>
la “ Dark Days,” now drawing to a dose
at Bydney Royal, Messrs. Seagrave and Stirling
Whyte are noticeable characters in the Assize
C rart at Tewnham, where the scene of the last
act Is la<d. They are the counsel for and against
the murderer Evans. Both maintain the average
honesty of look found on the faces of the wearers
of wigs in N.S.W. This is well. It proves that
Messrs. Seagrave and Whyte think nothing of
hard work when the purposes of art are to be
•erved.
Honest looks are, we admit, no guarantee
that the hearts are honest. Still, their presence
adds to the agroeableness of life. Every man
owes to his fellows the duty of looking honest, if
he conveniently can. That duty becomes impera-
tive on a dishonest man. Internally he is a sore
whose gangrened lips sicken the eyes of those
with a swift faculty of penetration. He will
not oure the sore, or let it be cured. It
profits him to have it suppurate, to have it
run. It is, then, his duty to make himself
up externally, so tha* penetrating people may
have some green spot on which to rest the eye.
For sake of others, too, he is bound to attend to
his looks. There are men and women in whom
the primitive virtues still abide. These think of
higher things than cozening specs, and gawky
precedences. They are at home in the open air.
There is communion between them and sky and
plain and river. Some gold is needful, but no gold
would buy from them the delight they take in
walking under a wide expanse of radiant sky. A
thousand gawky ceremonial successes could not
equal as sources of pleasure a day’s ramble by a
rippling river. Beside the spectacle of a flock
of wild ducks on a broad lagoon, with
the morning sun looking over from the east
fcnd the spring breeze stirring the high
grass and sedges along the margin, the largest
assemblage of millinery-made beauties in the
finest drawing-room in the land is only a mottled
spot in a Stuffy smoky chaos. The dishonest man
fehould not obtrude his dishonesty on these.
Hither he should not show himself at all to them,
or he should make himself up so as to be at least
as unobjectionable as a post in a paddock-fence.
Properly, he ought to spread cloths saturated with
oarbollo acid over the gangrened lobes of hie
heart. He ought to lubricate the region with
ointment of spikenard, and fumigate his presence
generally with a steaming censer of frankincense
and myrrh. But, at the very least-the very
lowest—he should show the average honesty of
face of a N.S.W. barrister.
• • »
We said last week that Mr. Vincent did
not inflict any pain on his audience. In the rile
he played, that showed able acting. He had to be
a fop, with the usually empty head, in most
paits, while in some it was his fate to approach
that specimen of attenuated humanity known as
the dude. This latter thing is in real life so con
temptlble that its presentation on the stage can
never be a success. It is capable of analysis; caD
as has been found, be resolved into bicarbonate
of cheek, nitrate of stare, oxala f e of cuffs, and
chloride of coat-tail; it can also be conoeived as a
thing that has been melted and poured into a pair
of narrow-legged pants; but asa depositary of any
human passion, sentiment, or idea it can never
occupy standing room anywhere but before the
female of its own class. A healthy girl wduld
rather kiss the nose of a rat-catching terrier than
the best specimen of the dude the world has pro-
duced. Mr. ViDcent was more pup than dude, but
that he was able to got through without making
one long to go outside and kick a dog tells strongly
in bis favour.
• • * ».
You are bound to Ilk© this little notice;
for we are writing it in the best of spirits. We
have Just come home from the Sydney Gaiety
Theatre, where we have passed hilarious moments,
and have been, so to speak, cheek by jowl with
vioe-royalty. We always go when the Governor
goes ; partly beoause we wish to demonstrate that
we are “about yet,” but chiefly because on
•‘.Command nights '* the humours of the theatre
are Infinite and exuberant. In a general way, we
don’t enjoy the theatre for the theatre's sake ;
because, in answering the calls of duty, we have
been dosed dramatically to a very large extent
during the present decade ; but when his Excel-
lency Baron Bob honours the play with . his
presenoe and patronage we always make a point
of doing likewise, and fixing, whenever it is prac-
ticable, the vice-regal party with our glittering
eye.
* * *
On our arrival on Saturday evening, the
scene presented an aspect of unwonted liveliness.
As a friend observed when he marked the streams
of people and lines of vehicles: "It might have
been a fight." The lessee, Mr. John Solomon,
stood in the vestibule ready to receive his distin-
guished patrons. He was an imposing spectacle,
having lifted himself into perhaps the very fullest
evening dress that has ever bedeoked the figure
of mortal man. Complimenting him upon his
dazzliog appearance, we remarked that he was
quite the Beau Brummel. “ Brummel,” repeated
John, musingly ; “ What d’ye mean ? Why, he
was the man who trained Tim Fogarty." But if
the exterior of the theatre presented a busy ap-
Eearance, what shall wesay of theauditorium? We
ad har-lly entered; the swing-doors bad scarcely
closed upon us when we were at once converted
into a pillar of merriment. Right at the entrance
Johnny had stationed two halberdiers, whom he
had habited in some of the ohoioest garments of
the theatrical wardrobe. They wore scarlet velvet
coats, trimmed with gold braid 2ln. wide, laoed
waistcoats, which kept one-half of their legs
warm, Louis XI. stockings, and Briok-
-11 eld Hill (Sydney) shoes, with a liberal
amount of polish. Transfixed by this speo-
taole, we could only lean in an angle of the
wall in order to leoover, but were almost Imme-
diately crumpled up again by beholding Johnny
festively pushing open the door, and gazing upon
his handiwork witn looks of undiluted pride and
admiration.
' ■
Although, in consequence of the exoited
state of the ushers, some eccentricity was ap-
parent in the manipulation of the audience while
seating them, it must be admitted that the aooom-
modatlon provided for his Excellency was lavish.
Here Johnny again shone. Here again were evi-
dences of his mighty minfl—of the gorgeousness—
wo might even add, the Orientalism of his ideas.
He had caused to be partitioned off for the vice-
regal party a velvet-lined cow-pen in the front
seat which would easily have accommodated 60
people. The barricade was of bright red, but the
furniture was old gold plush, and blue, and pea-
cock, and red. And floweret There was a regular
wall of pots uprearlng Itself before the orchestra;
and there were also bouquets wherever it was
convenient to put them. Just before the pleo*
commenced, the lessee stole in to have one last
gaze at this enchanted bower. The effect, as he
himself graphically expressed it, was "nobby.”
And, wo believe, the Governor subsequently
thought so. tool We said to Johnny, “ Why don t
you put a dock in?” At this suggestion his face
lit up with an electric glow, hut a moment later
his features were suffused with the cloudlets of
regret. It was, he explained, too far to send.
* * *
The curtain rose on the new piece at about
twenty past 8, at which hour the vice-regal enclo-
sure hadn’t even a goat in it; and the gods began to
give vent to some expressions of disoontent and
decision, many regarding the non-appearance of
thp Governor in the light of a “ have on part of
the management. In the lower part of the house,
tob, gloom was universal, and perhaps never did
thle curtain rise on a farce under more threatening
circumstances. We sought, of course, to confine
opr attention to the action of the play, but we
must confess that it waß, at times, much distracted
by the frequent appearances of Johnny Solomon
in,the auditorium, who surveyed his princely pre-
parations with looks of anguish, but consoled such
of the Pilgrims from Judea as were around him,
by the words: “The push is bound to turn up.
I’ve sent for 'em."
• * *
Such was the temper of the audience that
anything less funny than the first act of the
“Great Pink Pearl” would have been whistles
through the roof in the first 10 minutes. And
the first act of the pieoe would not be so remark-
ably funny, mind you, had the interpretation been
less skilful.
• • ■
The “Great P.P.” has as many plots as an
Orange lodge, and the situations change as rapidly
as the views of prominent politicians. The
primary trouble is brought about by the delivery
of a letter from the Princess Pennikoff concerning
the loan of 6,000,000 francs on the security of the
Great Pink Pearl, to Anthony Sheen, a bailiff-
hunted journalist, instead of to Anthony Sheen, an
American millionaire. Then Patrucio Gormani
(formerly Patrick Gorman) shows Sheen, the jour-
nalist, the way to a fortune, and the two, after
wiring to the capitalist anent the advance, get
away from the bailiffs and start for Paris. While
they are waiting for the Princess, Mary Turner,
formerly the be girl of the journalist, appears,
much to his horror, but is carefully smuggled
away as the Princess enters, Gormani re-
cognises the Princess as an old love, but
Sheen does not let this interfere with busi-
ness, and he arranges a sum as loan on the
pearl which leaves him a percentage sufficient
to satisfy a political land-speculator. The Princess
is lumbered into another room as her husband ap-
proaches, and in her hurry leaves the pearl in its
case behind a screen. Mary then emerges, collars
the pearl, swears that Sheen shall never give it to
the Princess, and clears out with it. Lillicarp, the
bailiff, then makes an unwelcome appearance, and
to get rid of him Sheen gives him the case from
whioh the pearl has been taken. Then the bailiff
is arrested for a crime in Russia, much to the
trouble of Sheen, who fancies that he has the
jewel. The plots grow thicker. Bheen, the mil-
lionaire, wires for rooms at the hotel where the
other Sheen is staying, and suspicion is directed to
the adventurers. Some arrests, an infernal
machine, the discovery of the pearl, and some re-
cognitions compose an exciting and effective
climax. There are several bushels more of the
plot, but that is about enongh to tell you
at one sitting. As the impecunious journalist,
one Anthony Sheen, Mr. Dam pier was cer-
tainly successful in a manner which went
beyond Ihis friends’ most sanguine hopes; and
Mr. Harry Leston, as the Irishman, Patrucio
Gormani, treated the audience to a character
study which was replete with the most delightful
humour. Indeed, all through the piece, these
gentlemen contrived to keep the audience on the
grin, and their success in the characters allotted to
them is of a peculiarly emphatic description. A
remarkable figure in this farce is a Russian police
officer, quite 7ft. feet. Mr. Dampier discovered
hitn some months ago,and has kept him locked up
in a clock-tower ever since. Like most giants, fte
has a decided tendency to be laconic, and he does
dot approach much nearer to fervid declamation
than touching bis hat and grunting. Ivan is the
name allotted to him, and we should not be sur-
prised if he drew the whole town. For, mind you
this-he is a real giant.
• m *
“The Great Pink Pearl,” being a very
slight piece, it is to be regretted that the female
element is not a little more vigorous. The “crack”
part is played by Miss Florenoo Wade, who, it
seemß has also the colonial right of the piece
This lady’s Princess Pennikoff is a performance, in
our opinion, that cannot be otherwise regarded
than as disappointing, when we consider that she
comes to us with even more flittering credentials
than those whioh Henrietta I’etowker took to
Portsmouth! And, added to this, Miss Wade has
seen it all in London I As Prinee Paul, Mr. Alleyne
was highly satisfactory; and the same must cer-
tainly be said of Mr. J. Stark, who was particu-
larly diverting as Lillicarp, a bailiff. And Miss
Julia Merton gave us a reproduction of Mrs.
Bouncer, with which the gods were vastly enter-
tained. Miss Lily Dampier put a lot of life into
Mary Turner; but Miss Emma Fischer gave a
drearily stereotyped impersonation of the lodging-
house “slavey.”
* • *
The soenery is suitable, and from a
literary point of view, the “ Great Pink Pearl” is
superior to any farce that has been produced here
for a very long time. There is no need, therefore,
for the actors to gag. We speak this advisedly.
* * *
The Governor came just before the second
act, and, as he took his seat, his Excellenoy im-
pressed us as being very full of the bares of State
—or of veal. Lord “ Bob ” was accompanied by
"our Queen of Beauty," the inevitable but graceful
Miss Judith, a young man whom the management
gave forth was Lord Cople, and some other war-
riors. A new departure was, however, made in
respeot to the orderlies. These gentlemen did not
get in on the nod as usual, but were seßt back
with the carriages, having expressed A cc quo Von
dit a disinclination to “ part their ochre at the
doors.
»* * »
“La Perichole ” is running at Sydney
Opera House, and, in point of attendance, seems
likely to be a boom of almost the samb dimensions
as “ Gircfie-Girofla ” It is said that Harding and
Searelle advanced on the road to » ffiuence at the
rate of £2OO a week wh&n the latter opera was on,
which goes to show a whole lot of things, aud,
especially, that Graoie Plaisted has managed to
walk several miles into the * flections of a discri-
minating public. By the way, it is nothing &hort
of marvellous to notice the celerity with which
little ladies do grip the very roots of the great
heart of manhood. They can’t help it, some-
how, and they don’t, seem very oiten to want to
help it, either. On the stage, espeoiallyi a
msiden of heavier mould has not an out-
side ghost of a show with them in the
way of making the audience enthuse. A sik-foot
virgin may have art enough to stock a gallery and
sufficient stocking area for a sheep-run (joke
here); but even then, if a four-foot fairy waltzes
on in a bunched-up dress, and a stolid, she knocks
the big ’un out in one round, and monopolises the
opera-glasses for the restof the evening. We have
always had a suspicion bordering upon certainty
that Helen of Troy could not muster more than
about six stone avoirdupois; that Sappho was only
about knee-high to an emu; that Cleopatra
was a gushing little thing of less weight
than Dae. O’Connor’s last ovation; and that
Potiphar’s wife—but this is wandering from the
subject. Grade wears two very fetching dresses
as La Perichole. In the first and last act she sports
a costume of various-coloured silk done up in
like a reefed rainbow, and made very
bouffant all round, and her court costume is more
gorgeous than anything we can think of Just now,
and almost as striking as the spelling of Abigail,
MP. In this operetta her voice in subjected to
less continued strain than in *■ Girofie,” but finds
full scope, nevertheless, and encores are notun-
frequent. The popular “Oh, dearost, believe
when I swear,” and “ I’m a little bit tight ” are
good for a second edition every time. C. H.
Templeton makes a slightly too thoughtful Vice-
roy tor our money; if he were to model b'®#elf a
1
little more on the Carington pattern now, he
would he certain to give, not pleasure alone, but
absolute ecstacy to all. Biwin Lester is not so
prominent a figure in this piece as in its predeces-
sor, and naturally the joy is not so intense for that
reason; )ie gets through his business thoroughly,
and therefore successfully, but he doesn’t, so to
speak, slop over with wit. The three cousins will
probably do better when they have been longer in
the trade. They skip about as though they Hked
it, and laugh whenever they feel that way. J. H.
South made up so well for the old mar, that many
ignorant persons were prone to imagine that he is
not beautiful even when unadorned—an error
which a single view of him when attired in his
store clothes would at once and effectually dissi-
pate.
** * *
The Federal Minstrels, at the Academy of
Music, entered upon their third year in Sydney on
Saturday night, and a splendid house assembled
to celebrate the fact,'and incidentally to listen to
the programme. Just fancy for '‘three long weary
years " have they been at that place, and for three
long weary years have we been writing adulatory
notices and bangiDg the dictionary to find adjec-
tives with which to accentuate our encomiastic
oomments. It is no use trying. This kind of
thing can’t last. Either our chief must get a new
critic or the present one, ourself, must be allowed
to write in the sonorous Saxon or the guttural
German. Pending a settlement of this point, we
refuse to urge toe messenger of our thoughts
(and of a;good many things we don’t think—such,
for instance, as are put in love letter s, and hasty
notes to tailors about that little bill)—to proceed
farther. Lookout next week for a flowing critique
in Sanscrit, or the language Abigail writes to the
Colonial Secretary,
** * *
Art is long, and when coupled with beers
of similar description, the combination should be
simply irresistible.’ This was not the case, though,
at the Sydney Olympic, on Saturday night,
possibly for the reason that the only art visible
or audible was of the most superlatively abbre-
viated description. It was a brilliant idea on the
part of the Vital Spark Combination to make a
sort of shandygaff of the alleged entertainment by
including wit and whisky, songs and sodawater,
vocalism and eau-de-vie in the same ticket. The
only error they fell into was in forgetting to
make the business equal to the beer, and so it
happened that the refressment interval was a long
way the most enjoyable item on the programme.
Miss Bella Sutherland, the Vital Spark, was
allowed the biggest capitals on the bill, but
hardly proved the brilliant success that might
have been anticipated by those who had not heard
her. We have never seen a vital spark before,
and should be quite able to exist if we knew
that we were never likely to see another. Some-
how, vital sparks don’t seem to fly upwards in
our estimation. Fred. Dark, who has made a
name at this classlo hall, put in good business, and
Harry Power did about all that was expected of
him, but Mr. Reece was, like unto a member of
I that celebrated Night'ng?.le Club, "where the
singers no doubt would have greatly excelled
had it not been for the want on their part of all
the attributes necessary to successful vocalism.
Mr. Glenville was above the average, but still the
furore he created was strictly limited in its inten-
sity. And yet with all this we did not like to hear
an angry oritlc say that “if they only gave four
beers instead of one, they might keep their blasted
entertainment." Such remarks as these betoken
the presence of a mental condition whioh fails to
soar above the level of liquor. It is possible that
the vital one will make things hum in the future,
but we are almost inclined to fanev there is a re-
mote possibility that she won’t. The chief point
in her favour 1b that very few persons are capable
critics of music and the drama, while, on the other
band, anyone can appreciate bottled beer.
** * *
The news about George Darrell is cheer-
ing. He played to full houses for seven weeks in
Auckland, and then “ fetched ” Wellington for
three weeks. He followed the " Private Secre-
tary ” to Christchurch, whero hejopened on Bt.
Patrick’s night. (The New Zealanders take George
for an Irishman. The way he makes love to Annie
Mayor in “ The Sunny South ’’ is now established
as a standard for imitation by the swains of Maori-
land.) Christchurch gave him an ovation. He is
there now, but is getting ready to salute Dunedin,
whence ho will, after enlarging his bank balance,
pay Invercargill a visit. On leaving Invercargill
he will sail straight for Sydney. Some day De-
tween the 15th and 120th May Ithose happy enough
to be about the Circular Quay w.ll behold him in
his yacht sailing up our Deautiful harbour and
leaning on the velvety arm of the still more beau-
tiful Joe Brown.
## # #
The Carey Dramatio Company experienced
hard times in the back blocks. Wagga dispirited
the poor players, Cootamundra sickened them,
Murrumburrah prostrated them, and YouDg bad
them carried out. However, let them not de-
spair. ohe South was never kind to the
sock and buskin. Not so many months ago
“ three gentlemen—one of them an eminent Eng-
lish aotor—had to foot it to Melbourne, assisted by
a loan on theirlwardrobe while, for a lady mem-
ber of the team a subscription had to be raised in
the last named town. ThiB is doleful news, and
only we are apprised that Madame Woodyear’s
Circus is foroing the proprietors to stuff with gold
the false bottoms of their travelling trunks in
these far-off regions, we should fear that the
dwellers in the West had gone bodily over to the
Salvation Army.
SKIN BEAUTIFIER.
To keep the pores open, the oil glands and tubes
active, and thus furnish an outlet for impurities
in the perspiration and blood which cause humili-
ation blotches, blaokheads, and minor skin blem-
ishes; to cleanse, whiten, and beautify the skin re-
move tan, freckle!’, sunburn, and oily master ; to
keep the hands soft, white, and free from chaps
and roughness, prevent contagious skin and scalp-
diseases, and to provide an exquisite skin beauti-
l\ar and toilet bath and nursery sanative, redolent
with delicious flower odours and Ccticuba neallng
balSams, use the CcTICtfRA SoAfl. Indorsed by
physicians and chemlets ** absolutely pore and
highly medicinal. Sales 1881 and 188,2, 1,000.000
cakes.
COMMENCE THE YEAR RIGHT.
Don’t make too many resolutions, but hold on
like grim death to those you do make. If your
physical syrem is out of order you should attend
to that at once, for it's no use trying to keep a stiff
upper lip wh in your kidneys or liver are takmg
the courage out of you. if you have really made
up your mind to turn over a new leaf, commence
the year by taking a thorough course of tho cele-
brated Dr. Bell’s Bitters. Thousinds of people
testify to its good tff-cts for kidney diseases,
biliousness, piles, constipation, 3*
SERIOUS THOUGHTS.
A merobant alone in his lonesome store,
I said to him as he paced the floor,
•• What are you thinking about, my dear? >f
“I am thinking about St. LOUIS BEER.
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time
will give you a sound night’s rest.
Good grog out of inferior glassware is less
desirable than indifferent grog out of good
ware, and may it not be said in reference to food
also? Does it not give an edge to the appetite
to have one's food not only nicely cooked bui
served 'n nice crockery ? After fir®ttinsr »cou»-
T.oined to good glass and china on table
diesatislloil one is when he has to K° back to the
unsightly crockery too often seen, a not veryfa
remove from iron or tin artlclos.
prices for beautiful china and glass, Bray Bros.,
of 403 and 404 Oeorge-street are noted for.
Wolfe's Schnapps lor the bladder and like
complaints.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS OF
First-tk WATCHES
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIES.
Seed for the Oriental Gold Locket... 4/-
Seal .. 4/-
Bracelet. 8/-
, 10/-
„ 12/-
~ 14/-
„ 16/-
Bov. Purse 4/-
Match Box 4/-
Scarf Pin.. 2/-
2/6
§/-
4 h
Albert ... 6/-
Charm .. 4/-
Studs, f.S'-t 3/-
„ 4/-
„ 5/-
„ 6/-
Keeper ... . 2/6
Gem Ring 4/-
Send for the Silver Waltham Watch 2 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
II M
19 9*
19 99
DON’T MI3S THIS CHANCE.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
A handsome Oriental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lings' worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company. 474 George-street, opposite
the Market?.


BRIEF MENTION .
2TJos. Byrnes now believes in hell. Says it’s
at Woodend.
When doctors disagree juries find verdicts
for £5OO and costs.
The Sydney Evening News has altered its
headings. It ought to alter its head.
It is curious how much faster a Sydney
tram-car goes when you are running for it than
when you are riding on it.
From the Evening News “ Drunk—
John O’Keefe (Irish), fined 10s ,or 48 hours.” We
ask Alfred Bennett (Australian) what this means.
In Sydney District Court. “ George and
another v. Blank. Claim—£s for a bath.” £5 for
a bath I Defendant must have been an alderman.
Topics of the Time.
Crooks, the Bank "Manager”
of Adelaide, "had his bed-room
bung with religious texts.
Arrangements are to be made for at escort of 400 or 600
horsemen to-accompany Lord Carinjjton around Quirindi.
Unless his Lordship can be induced to follow the recog-
nised milk, and “ Butch-c-a-o I ” routes wc fear there will
be some difficulty in keeping ttm cavalcade in line.
Doctob (who lias been suddenlv called
by the night boll) “ YAur wife, dangerously
ill, ch ? All right go before a Magistrate
and register your oath that if any thing
happens to your wife the physician in
charge shall be acquitted of all liability. 1
can’t afford £f>oo damn gee for the luxury
of being.called up o.ut of a warm bed at
two in the morning l ” j
During tlio recent Campaign in Africa a good deal of
excitement war caused in England by the bending and
twisting of the bayonets used by the British soldiers.
At the Bt. Patrick’s Day banquet, at Bathurst, the’health
of 'he Pope was proposed by a Scotoh Protestant. (1)
What next ? If thoro had not been so much said about
" mixed marriages," at tin recent Plenary Council—but
really now tuat the above sketch is complete it looks wildly
improbable. *
Keep TtffM SqtH OUT'
The Proposed Divorce Amendment. Belated
Bacchanalian (whose wife has kept awake to
give hiOI-11 piece of lim min d) : “ Gc! a divorce
froip me toj habitual (hie ') d'serti m, and con-
tinued dninkopncM (hie) I admit the d’sen
ti"o, an plead guilty But pot shgli'st grounds
ioi charge of drunkenness —Bt'Ver \vjW (hie)
clruok in my life (hip) ' '
When is a walking-stick
not a walking-stick P
When it is a running
Crook .
(Take a day oIT and
think I his out. It took us
a week to work it up )
The Loyal Orange Institution of N.B.W. have presented
an address to the escaped Nur There really is no "es-
cape ” from illuminated addresses, bhe had much better
have stopped in the Nunnery,
Rev. Gilchrist (suggestive name!) has just
lectured on "The Duty of the Australian
Churohes.” We suppose he means they should
stop ngnting.
“Mr. Holt, the bank-absconder, has as-
sumed the garb of a clergyman." Such attire
often effectually hides a multitude of sins from
the gaze of the police.
i T .£ e « a < i ha r l , eB Campbell, in his speech
In the N.B. W. Legislative Council against the Ex-
tension of Divorce Bill, said; " We have a coarser
feeling which wo inherit in common with tho
beasts. Speak for yourself, Charles!
«T h » e v. Byci ? e ? * :cno editor invites short
"sketches of stirring incidents.” but they “must
be based on facts. ’ Contributions to the news 1
and other departments outside of that ooluran
may oome in on the usual conditions. j
A, certain well-known doctor pretends
that he never forgets the name of a patient. He
had forgotten the other day and tried diplomacy.
“ Let me see, Mr. aw—how do you spell your
name ? ” “ S-m-i-t-h—Smith,” said the patient.
A. B. Bae, Protestant Scotchman, of
Bathurst. N.8.W., proposed the toast of “ the
Pope ”at St. Patrick’s Day banquet. Had A.B.
been born a bit earlier, a Pope might have
toasted him—on a gridiron. [P.S.—This is a joke.
“By jove, Bat.! ” cried the Duke of Con-
naught in a congratulatory tone to his brotber-in-
lawj“lseeyou take precedence of the Marquis
of Lome.” “ Hang it,” cried Prince Henry, turn-
ing at last, "if that’s all I married into the family
for ”
“They’ve taken some vow, have they
not?” asked a gentleman of proprietor of an
ordinary, much affected by the Madagascar deacons
now in Sydney—** do you know what it is ?” “ Yes,
sir,” replied the landlord, promptly—“to take
twice of everything.”
During the past week, four boys of what
the Herald facetiously calls "tender ages,” were
aLV&KX
shall we do for statesmen when tho ’ great politi-
otu. of the present day .re dead and buried t"
Fortune’s favours again. At Akaroa
(N.Z.), a bullet fired at a bullock struck a butoher
named Sloane in the breast-pocket, collided with a
two-shilling piece, and glanced off without doing
any damage. Had Sloane been a poot the missile
r;?d
the streets next day.
vr /» . .. .
There is a report from N. Queensland that
the Johnstone blacks have eaten four Chinamen
ini. months. Well, the choice of these ebon lords
of the soil would appear to be between a Chinese
digger and a European teamster; and they Beem
to prefer the Mongolians. We vo boon iu Northern
Queensland, ourselves; and we are not disposed
to blame these heathens much. And We are, let us
tell you, an authority. For we've been very hungry,
there.
At Dalton, 8. A., a volunteer named Simms
has just won a shooting competition the prize for
which consists of a pint of ale to he given every
day of the year by a local landlord; a condition is
that the winner shall attend each day and consume
the liquor, which at the end of the year will have
amounted to 45 gallons. Next year Simms won’t
he able to shoot so straight.
More muddle. From a reoent Sydney
Evening News we learn—“ A middle-aged min,
named Alfred Collett, was observed by a constable
to throw a stone at some boys who were sitting
on a wall at Dawes Point. The stone struck a lad
named Thomas Brown on the back of the head,
andlcaused a compound fracture of the skull. The
deceased was committed for trial.” If this is the
style deoeased persons are treated, Ninny Mel-
ville's Bill for the proper interment of the dead
wasn’t drafted out a day too soon.
A little taste of gall from the Cooktown
Independent:— “Our aldermen are doing their
best for public interests acoording to their brains
and education.” If this becomes a general thlDg,
and all other aldermen are hampered by the same
limits, the efforts of some of our own muniolpal
magnates will be of about as much use to the
public interests as a pair of bluohor boots would
bo to a young mermaid.
Cremationists get small encouragement to
pursue their practical sanitary improvements.
Mary Newman, of Brisbane, is a cremationist. She
burnt her newborn baby. Tho little innooont was
dead, and as MarF had a wholesome horror of old-
fashioned burial arrangements, she just popped ,
baby on the kitchen fire. It was scarcely warmed
through before Mary was arrested. This poor
victim of social prejudice was sentenced to two
years’ hard laboi*.?,
With sorrow we have observed that the
Bench is often disposed to cut its little joke about
very delicate matters. A case in point ooourred
last in Melbourne. A gentleman of colour was
summoned to Bhow cause why he had not paid a
little monetary penalty incidental to the joys of
paternity. “ I’ve never seen the little Kiri,” pro-
tested the coloured gentleman. And then came
the inevitable joke from the Benoh—“Oh, but
you’ve seen the mother.”
A Rockhampton man whose wife objeoted
to his importing grog into the house on Sunday,
purchased an air-cushion, and used to half-fill it
with rum every Saturday night. One Sunday, not
having turned the tap off tightly enough, his
“missus” discovered the plant, and he knew it;
but, to his surprise, she never “let on.” Twelve
revolving moons had run their course, when on a
Sabbath afternoon he happened to he looking for
a sleeve-link, or his gun, or something, when, 10,
he came across another air-cushion 1
Says the Centbal Austbalian “ Panem
et circemes was the ery of tho plebs. of ancient
Rome. That oryis being re-echoed across the
centuries by the outcast poor of modern London ’ *
A want of panem is oertaialy oausing trouble
amongst the London poor, but we have yet to
JoArn tb-ftt they are mad to see a circus* •* Bust-
ness ” and jokes that were baldheaded when Noah
was a boy are beginning to pall on the cultured
tastes of the British outcasts.
When Mr. Anderson, the Minister to the
Court of Swedep, was recontly introduced, in-
uBual “mumble” and
he seized the Queen's hand, squeezed
and shook it heartily, took a seat at her side, and
entered Into familiar talk about the children and
other topics calculated to render him agreeable
and entertaining.” If a man did all that to our
Queen (hats off!) the Gentleman Pensioners at
Arms (of whioh H. E. Baron Bob was commander)
would, in their wrath, have made sausage of him—
German sausage,


It has been ruled by Judge Millar, in
Queensland, that “a constable on duty was per-
fectly justified in being in a back yard at 1 o’clock
Sir Alfred and the Sword of Divorce:
WILL THEY LET HIM USE IT?
»! Point of l Should think so I But this
b een nV£>°! oe Protection that we have never
hduly, b u t a “l° to achieve. We have a dog, eer-
ue does not seem to protect our coke,
which is gradually growing oommon to the neigh-
bours. Besides, of what use is one dog when a
man comes at midnight with another dog and a
shovel ? We have requested several policemen to
ao duty in pur yard at 1 a.m., but up to this they
nave all politely pleaded prior engagements. So
thus far we are undone; for it has long dawned
upon us it would take two dogs and a po'iceman
in uniform to protect our coke. When you chain
| up a dog nobody steals if, however much you
wish they would do so; but you can’t chain up
coke. We wish you could.
From an English paper “ Birth of trip-
lets.-Mrs. Brown, of Whitsea-street, Peter-
borough, recently gave birth to triplets. The
children did not long survive their birth, and Her
Majesty accordingly forwarded a donation of ££
only to Mrs. Brown." Here fs another instance of
that unbounded generosity which endears Her
Gracious Majesty to” (for balance of this
phrase see the speeches of Abigail, M L.A ). Mrs.


Urnwn W 6 of OOUtS®* Tnflftn th© MfS. BrOWD. Of
Peterborough-would be almost abletobujy^he
children with the £2 added to what the pawn
broker would give her on the flat-irons.
The Sydney Echo says “no fellah can
understand the unemployed question, seemgthat
the Vernon has 500 app ications for boy fl
farmers.” As if Granny, junr.. could be expected
to see the difference between having a lad bound
by indenture for a term of years at nominal
wages, and a full-priced man free to go when he
pleases. Many of the unemployed are mechanics,
others clerks, and most of such would prefer
clearing scrub to takiDg a place as a farmer s
drudge o f all work.
Let us all go to Windellama. N.S.W.—
" Woe is me, Alhamal”—whence a correspondent
writes:—“ Dear Bulletin, -In the rural d
Windellama times are so bad from *be drought
that coin ot the realm is a thing of the past-the
present currency consists of wallaby ana hare
scalps. A customer rides up to one of the local
Btores and antes up 16 scalps for a .pair of boots,
one for a plug of Barrett s twist, and so on. The
only grass to be found is in the form of widows,
which are pretty plentiful, their husbands being
absent following the lucrative and excitiDg occu-
pation of rendering bald-headed the testive
Kangaroo.” . .
We see that the Colonial Fine Art Exhi-
bition, in London, is under the patronage ot
Saul Pamuel, K.C.M.G., and, we .observe, with
awe, that this really great exhibition consists of
the following (we quote):— Six important works
by William and Allred Strutt, Kangaroo Hunts,
and works by Nicholas Chevalier, E. W. Cook, y.
E Hern, E. Roper, C. Jones, Herbert Dixsee, Ac
They charge a shilling to go into this ' but the jani-
tors, no doubt, wear armour unaer their gherkins.
We suppose, therefore, taking y our 11 id. out of the
attendants is included in the entertainment. There
Is a rumour that the gorgeous patron only cam®
once _i n a four-wheeler-and was taken away
(under strong escort) —in the Westminster prison-
An idyll of Sydney cemetery. She had
been dead for years, and he had married the
monied widow she had so long suspected while sho
was alive, but he did not wholly forget his first
love, and whenever business or b| ea ®K e T . t°ok
him near her grave, he generally strolled round
and dropped a tear or an empty sandwich bag on
the hallowed spot. One day he thought her tomb
looked more than usually neglected, and accord-
ingly, having skimmed over the railings of a
neighbouring grave, he reverently stole the best
wreath: placed it above his dead loves head, and
sobbed, “Ob, darling Janel If you could only see
line now you’d know how much I loved you. It s
a terrible thing to die and be forgotten.
Read this: “A lady visiting a Paris hos-
nital on New Year's Day heard an inftrmiere (hos-
{itS nurseTsay to an imbecile old woman, who
'kept trying to rise, ‘ Creve done, vieux chameau I f>
That of course, means: Die! you old Camel!
Mo nurse, in our Sydney hospital, we believe,
”°u?d say this. If an old woman whose case was
boneless mid who gave a world of trouble were
howling Particularly loud for cough-mixture, just
as Lord CariDgton was expected in the watd, a
“ Sister ” might think a lot, but she wouidn t say
anything. Not to say anything, enters la rgely
into the duties of a hospital nurse. The patient
has all the say, especially at medicine-times, when
it; but yau hardly ever hear
the nurse make a remark. If she does, sue tarns
with her fingers—and you swallow.
Th« other day at Gunning (N.S.W,), an
uncle named Brewer was leaning thoughtfully
noon his fowling-pitce when his nephew, a boy of
t\So nretvt 7ol'tly up and pulled the trigger, shat-
tering his uncled hand and taking off bis hair and
whiskers on one side with remarkab e closeness.
■aj thft vouth evidently knew all about tbis
?“ W ’ and was equally familiar with his uncle, so
inference is that the latter must have given
B Xh P \he e9 hand 6 ’ and\he 6 pCtoSic
hut we don’t deny we have a kind, sneaking
Interest in the kid, too. W»at a splendid country
member he will make 1 ,
The news that a. deputation of black-
fpllows had waited on Graham Berry and pre-
him with their photos, as a souvenir at
Ser* othfr liountrlesf 1 A. 1 deputSion^^Wdn^e
1 AsrrAW
Swt “ take?’ as a token of friendly remem-
The Governor of New Ca edonia, hearing
».V Anthony Musgrave was leaving Queens-
mnd for a 12 months’ holiday, sent over four care-
fully- selected French murderers, as a sample of
.the produots of the island.
Tt is astonishing what pious converts the
i oiinorips are abte to make out of niggers, wbi .e
their teaching has positively no effect upon people
tneir teacn uk . white The conversions at
(Coranderrk mission station must be of the
Su“l SbtblU S r«. Tbe vsrytfeu.
eented to Graha p °J^ encP exhorting him
keeping of Divine Broviaenc said to have been
Kted b?a black chief! one Barak-probably a
dictatea Dy a umv w e n. Borak, when last
IS H o?pK
tWv of Pigeon English was clothed with the
strongest bFasphemy brewed by bul ock-punchers.
And now—hallelujah—Borak is a saint.
Adelaide is going to have a Jubilee Exhi-
wnnn in December, and the Government printer
mb a gloomy pamphlet, lit up by a couple
nfhflar ious maps anent it. In one of these elabor-
°l“E the Jubilee Exhibition is depicted as
exactly the size of Hindmarsh-square, a
fffung •’ of the city whose pubs, are famed
f nr the viciousness of their beer. The RWer
m r "7®- •• wMch would not, in the ordinary course
nf°events have Sacked the thirst of a cat in a
denicted as a mighty river (I), and the
''inmt'hfi most picturesque building in the city—is
Faol jj 8 absence. Altogether, this is the
meanest book we have seen for man, a day. and the
“Proclamation,” in its puling servility, we regard
™,iminnl The “patrons’ alone has
sufficed to lash us Into fury. Read
Frederick Ernest Albert of Wales
jK o ” We prophesy confusion for this abject
undertaking 1 ,
The bovs “ had ” the old man at last. He
was cook on the station, and his yarns about the
«M B dftVB before they were born were just gettiog
he doubted, for when a man of 70 begins to tell
w,w e the scar on bis leg was received at Waterloo,
bo"™® Son it up that it was before he was
ho™ 7 you begin to think that England should look
hotter after her unborn veterans. However.
Jhpffiwas one thing they could not stand, aDd
thlt wit his pretention to be a judge of wooL
He had “been classer for old M Dougall on the
Peak Downs before you fellows was bora Y-u®
hi words. One evening when they were all sit-
listening to toe old man, they
thfftalk on wool-classing, and he started off to
hroJ as usual. One of them produced two
samples of wool-one from a poodle and the other
S ie ft s merino, and defied him to say which
was the merino and whica the Leicester. He 1 bxe
IPs specs, felt the samples, and then laughed a
h tter laugh! “ Ha, ha. thought you bad the old
man did you, smarties ? Why them’s both from
ihe dov l * When the talk now turns on wool-
clasoing tho old man generally starts to look
after next week’s rations.
CORRESPONDENCE
tOor retpondenU who give neither name nor nom-
plwne cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ O.O.” : We don’t see any sufficient reason
for prohibiting' the husbands or wives of incurably
insane persons from re-marrying. (2) Sir Alfred
Stephen.... Lite the clergy, you are much
more forcibly reminded of the “ uncertainty of
life” when a titled personage dies suddenly than
when a poor man drops dead “J. Rae : Bosh.
The whole combined Pres 3 can’t ruin a
strong man who knows his strength and has right
on his side. The combined Press can temporarily
bolster up an infamy, but the truth will prevail.
Look at David Gaunson, whom the daily Press of
Melbourne has for years tried to extinguish. He
stood up the other night and said publicly that he
didn’t care “a snap of his finger for the whole
combined Press of Victoria. He could go on to
the public platforms and fight them, and he did
not care one braes farthing for the newspapers
He could wallop them easily as he had wal-
loped them before.” The voice, so far as it
reaches, is more powerful than the pen
“ lurf We cannot publish your screed, but it
simply adds to our belief, that the well-connected
ones of Sydney are in most cases “well-con-
MR. E. B. HOLT,
The Absconded Manager of the Bank of Now Zealand, Sydney.
nected” with the bookmakers. The result of this
eonneetiou will be disastrous to the books.
Account-books we mean...H.O.L.”: You ssy
there are in reality no unemployed in Sydney.
This is utterly false. What has made you forget
the Lands Office clerks and the police ?. “R A M.
You say in your pathetic poem (which, alas, we
cannot print—too sultry):—
The member who it seen,
In all the paths of holiness,
May ruin all who trust in him,
Yet never be respected less :
liut if a girl should step aude,
By innocence or folly led,
The deepest shame that can be known,
For ever rests upon her head.
Quite so; now for our verse:—
But if the member whom you mean.
Is he whose name would be our guess,
Whatever he should do or say.
He could not be respected less. _
ii p *•. You “ regret, that the laws against high
treason are not now enforced with the vigour of
the good old days.” That’s always the way with
people of your political and social creed. You are
ready to substitute the lash for logic and the gaol
for argument. You say avo Bhould respect the
Queen as a woman. So we do: just as much as we
honour any other woman who is equally desen ing
of respect. Further, you tell us that we " shooli
oarry out our professed principles of Christian
charity.” Does this mean that we should say o
Her Majesty that which we do not believe t If so
we would point out that “ virtue itself
turns vice when misapplied;” charity is not com-
mendable when it involves lying and injustice....
‘ Crago”: Wid print it when Henson, L.0.L., is
appointed Inspector of Convents...." Arethusa :
You want us to criticise and pay for your poem.
We decline to grant the latter request, and have
only one line of criticism, which is that if “ In the
Shadows ” had been written after your poem had
been published, the author would have been ac-
cused of stealing every word save the title of it
from you “ C.C.J.” : We don’t see why Crown-
briefs should be entrusted by any Attorney-
General to a blathering person who gets how-
liDffly drunk at an assize dinner, and has to be led
home by the oar prior to being put to bed in his
boots “Maud S”: Where are you ?We wrote
a month ago asking you V.S.W*
(Workman): Your paper shows that you think
strongly on the subject, but we must decline your
essay. . .“R. Gorman”: Your reforms are too
drastic. If any possession of property were to
constitute ownership, it would be a good defence
to a charge of burglary that the burglar by his
own act of entering became owner of the premises.
... “Events to come”: We believe your forecast
of the future to be about as reliable as a turf
t'pster, a lady’s watch, or an alderman's pro-
mise....“T 0 J.R.” (West Maitland): Poem is
miles below the last. Is there no stonebreaking
up your way? “ Coonabarabran ”: Nice paper;
burns we 11....“ Oyster Johnnie”: M.S. awaiting
for memo, of your address....“ W. Gay (Puddle-
dock) : You have a marvellously Arm grip of the
marriage question. In verse 298 you bottom on
bed-rock when you say—
“ The root of this appears to be, that woman’s
Has 6 set her style of living far above her means
and station; , ,
If the husband earns two pounds a week, sne
And having* such an incubus the husband cannot
thrive.”
Of course he can't; but yet, do you know, the fact
never occurred to us before. And your summary
of the subsequent proceedings is not more terse
than true:—
“ The upshot is, they get in debt, as far as they
Th@ C husband tries to ascertain what brings him
thus so low — _ , ,
To keep his house and credit good, he knows
he’s struggled hard, .
And grieves to find himself broke down his
ultimate reward.”
Which is very sad, and is only incomplete in being
without any allusion to the pawnshop. But that is,
after all, a very slight omission, and you may take
our word for it, William, that if anyone tells you
that your poetry is rubbish, twaddle, muck, or
Ic Bb, their unfeeling criticism is merely the result
f envy, hatred, and malice. Keep on writing.
William, and send it along Thanks.
Had to have the French and German cuttings....
■ Chip of the Old Blook ”: The lt.C. bishops, when
hey said that liquor had a worse effect upon
Catholics than upon Protestants, alluded, we pre-
iume, to the fact that the Celt stands his liquor
eas well than his harder-headed Saxon brother. If
;hey didn't moan that-if they meant that a Pro-
testant Englishman would become soft-headed as
regards alcohol on entering the R.C. Church—well,
n that case we advise everybody to stick to grog
ind heresy....“Como”: Do you not send it to
“take it out” of a hated rival?.. . Muff, and
“A Maitland Resident”: Thanks .. '• We
don’t know anyone who advertises in that direc-
tion ..." John Hilder ”: Cassell’s is the test unless
you read German —“C. R. Jaoobs ”: Hasn t it ?
As lately as 1833 a child of nine was sentenced t>
be banged for poking a stick through a patched-
ud pane of glass aid stealing twopennyworth of
paint... “C.S.”: TC it ip, then N.S.W. will have
had four Governments in as many months, which
is just about the average of the South American
Republics. Now-a-days the Ministers don’t stay
with ns any longer than the servants— R.
Jensen”: The evidence, in our opinion, pointed
strongly to tho conclusion that the dislocation
was an old and irreducible one. The question is
one which, according to the doctors’own testi-
mony, could only be definitely settled by killing
Mr Cross and putting him on the dissecting-table.
Dr. Goode would likely have lost the case anyhow,
was poor. and jurios arc jffincrftlly
as plaictiu wa p mo Dey; but he must
1 i?4 6r «l the* 3 stiff ness of the damages to
created by tbe ill-advised ejaoula-
Hono? Professor Anderson Stuart, smarting un-
der what he considered the unprofessional conduct
of another witness.
We do not undertake to return rejected M 3.
Mr. E. B. Holt, the errant manager of the
Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, was, according to
his own statement, on hla way back to the colony
when he was arrested in Brisbane. He had some-
thing over £3OO in'cash when arrested, besides
draft on London for £5OO. While travelling in
Queensland he assumed the disguise of aßoman
Catholic priest, which suited him admirably, as
with his moustache shaved off his appearance
much resembled that of the average Catholic
cleric.
A stock argument among Freetraders of
the more rabid kind is that we must keep our
ports open to benefit England. Here s a
of the kind of thing this “ benefit” bringsabout.
‘‘Women making shirts for the export trade can
earn from 91 to Is. for a day s work of 10 hows,
if they find their own needles and cotton, lhisis
from the report of the Mansion House Committee
on London distress. Better to import the poor
seamstresses and let the London slop-dealers and
“ sweaters ’ ’ keep their shirts at home.
There was a lively little scene at the con-
clusion of Mr. W. W. Collins’ lecture in Goulburn,
N S W., caused by the criticism of two clergymen,
Dr. Ellis (who used not to have a very high opinion
Of the morality of Australian girlP), and Can6n
Irvine. Dr. Ellis opened fi re by foolishly object-
ing to the lecturer’s pronunciation of the name
Galileo. Some hard hitting on both sides followed,
but the clerical contingent were Boon willing to
beat a retreat. And just here we wind up by ask-
ing these reverend gentlemen how they would
feel if some Freethinker were to come to one of
their services and cross-question them while in the
pulpit ? So far, compared with the average public
exponents of Freethought, the olergy have the
advantages of culture .and social prestige com-
pletely on their Bide. They should at least sat an
example of good manners.
It is cabled that “Buckshot” Forster,
M.P. for Bradford, who was Chief Secretary for
Ireland in the last Liberal British Ministry, died on
Monday last of paralysis supervening on spina 1
disease. As has beei truly remarked, Forster,
THE LATE MR. W. E. FORSTER, M P.
who, in his earlier year?, was remarkable for the
earnestness with which he worked to alleviate the
distress of the starving Hibernian peasantry,
lived, bv a strange irony of fate, to be the moat
execrated man of his generation in Ireland-his
name “a name only uttered with curses and jeers.
We read that at Fremantle (W.A.) lately,
the local K.C. Bishop, Dr. Balvado, who is running
the most successful mission to the benighted Aus
tralian nigger yet known, “ amused an audience
by singing an aboriginal song and dancing the
accompaniment.” This affords a iexample
for his reverence the Anglican Bishop of Madagas
cm. who is just now in Sydney, and has a rather
hard tussle to procure the ®P° il which to
carry on the good work among his blackiebows.
We take the liberty of, suggesting to the good
bishop that he and the il deacons should give an
amateur minstrel performances
three half-crowns an * Austrian* and the
Carington Hall, one night when the dance-tap is
turned off. How would this look on a hand-
bill?:-
Persons whose occupations are unhealthy
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
fW~ CONVERT THE HEATHEN I
•. • Mouchoirs for the Malagasies 11
First Appearance of
THE MADAGASCAR MINSTRELS.
Now on their Musical Mission throughout the
World 1
The entertainment might toe all original* tool
We’ll start the thing ourselves, with a Song ana
chorus. Here goes !—(Copied from the pro
g Ditty.— THE LITTLE NtTT-BROWN NIGGER-
The Rev. Jedediah Fluffum. .. j
There was a little nigger- .
For now he’s grown much bigger- ,
(A bet that he was nut-brown you would mn
on 1)
He walked about all day
Tn a way quite digagi, ,
With nothing but his little dusky skin on I
Oh. fle, fle, fie!
What a bold, rude Agger
To the Christian eye, .
Cut this nut-brown nigger*
Chorus— Oh, tie, &e.
Quoth the Missionary—” Nigger,
I weep to see your Agger,
But if you do refuse to wear a suit, sab,
With these two things I meet you,
And, remember, I entreat you, .
You’re converted by a necktie and a Aute, sari.
(Chorus as before.) (
Pooh!—get up an entertainment in no time! We re
the boys for the Bishop. Let him ask the Diorama*
what we’ve done for ’em!
If you are weak and sleepless try Wolf
chnapps. „
An exhilirating oordial is Wolfe's SclvnapV'
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators.
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated wi^
flaa and lloral decorations, t>o!4 Hunter-st
Sydney.* iai teS
Wolfe’s Schnapps possess all the requisi
of a family medicine.
Wolfe's Schnapps 40 years before
public'and its qualities and virtues never ye
proaehed.
Thji Rates op Sobbobotion to Thi BOjUg 1 !,
are—For one year, 845.; half-year,
quarter, Ba. 6d.—ln advanoe. Ino jj!'
Thi Advhrtisinq baths are sa. JP et . A pet
special positiona In the paper W. “ ißok'
Inch. Paragraph advertisementslos.
Discounts are allowed on continuous
ments ordered for periods, w follows • jpjeP
▼ertlsementa ordered for 13 consecutiv ,j on g[
tiona, 10 per cent.: For 86 consecutive in® gg pet
16 per cent.: For 62 oonseeutlve
eent. No allowance pan be «-
menta ordered for alternate tetermitt» ho uld
sertlOH. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Oraen«
he made payable to W. rf. Tbaiu.i for
under HI. postage stamps of any *“•
Colony may be sent. If more convenient*


CHARITY CRICKET.
We don’t mind admitting that when we
first saw the “ Ladies’ Cricket Match ” advertised,
we entertained considerable doubts as to whether
we should enjoy ourselveSby going there. Darkly
morning in the storehouse of our recollection was
the “ Ladies’ Tournament,” in which a woman who
kept a fish-shop, and a lady who drove a van, had
the race between them “ from the jump,” the
fermer female coming in a winner after a six
< ays’ contest, a raddled and degraded spectac!e |
but yet olothed, as the management of the tent
would persistently have it, “in chaste and appro,
priate attire.” We remember us, too, having
recently been present at a “ ladies’ footrace ” at a
picnic. This impressed us as being but a melan-
choly spectacle—the display of “lasting” boots
and wrinkled stockings being calculated to
dispel from the mind of man, for once and
for ever, thoughts that a romance surrounds
even women who go to picnics, and take
part in foot-races with colossal boots and de-
fective garters. As a matter of fact, we don’t
like to see women assert themselves. We have
seen all the circus women who go up a rope and
curl round a trapeze-bar, but the performance has
always Impressed us as being hideous in its ungrace-
fulness. Similarly a circus woman on horseback
what a sorry figure she cuts I She never, by any
A Divorce Bill Difficulty: An Innocent Absentee.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council, Captain Charles “pointed out that a man might he away from his wife for over three years withsut any desire to desert her. There were
instances often occurring of men being shipwrecked on desert islands, and so forth, and being unable to return to their wives and families before the expiration of several
years.”
fehanoe does anything she is supposed to do, and,
as she passes your side of the ring, you hardly
know where to look.
* *• *
We are bound to set down, however, that
the performance we witnessed at Sydney Associa-
tion Ground, on Monday last, was strictly within
the bounds of propriety. And to it was relegated
the additional advantage of possessing many fea-
tures of a delightfully ludicrous nature. The two
competing elevens were the Siroceos and the
Fernleas; and It had been arranged that the gate-
rooney should go to Mr. Ardill’s charities—“ The
Ome of ’Gpe,” and the “ Open all Night Refuge.”
The ground was given free, and as, towards the
afternoon, the people rolled up to a surprising ex-
tent, we should conceive that by this time the
Home contains more hope than it boasted before,
and that the Refuge is open more “ all night” than
ever. We started after lunch, and were much dis-
concerted at finding the tramcars full of members
of the dramatic profession. Our spirits recovered
somewhat, however, on our arrival at the grounds,
a discussion arose between a number of
alented exponents of the drama, and the editors
the turnstiles, on the subject of parting the
ffeoessary Robert. One gentlemar, well known
or his low comedy powers, declined, in so many
th°+ <1S ’ t 0 part !” and * a 8 110 walked away, said
■whi l! 6 KefuBed to patronise an entertainment in
ieh the finest feelings of human nature were
thus outraged.
I'be admission; bons'idering the amusement
afforded, was reasonable enough, goodness knows i
A shilling to the ground and a shilling to the
Grand Stand seems dirt-cheap when about every
five minutes you saw half the field fighting for d
catch at short-slip; and heard the derisive Jauktater
of the batswomen. We got ttatere just as the
Siroccos were about half through their first
innings. The costumes of this team were “ cardi-
nal and blue,” and that of the Fernldas “ black
and gold”; but we must award to the former team
the palm for ‘‘chasteness of attire.” The Fernleas
exhibited an independence of spirit in the selec-
tion of their garments which has been noticed
amongst many prominent members of past Aus-
tralian elevens; but we chronicle, with much
pleasure, that the young ladies did not so far
emulate the example of “the little stonewaller”
and others, as to have had the hat passed round.
The pavilion, by the way, was almost deserted, the
girls themselves preferring, when at leisure, to
disport themselves on the Grand Btand, apparently
unconscious that their feet encased in india-rubber
shoes afforded but a gloomy spectacle.
* * *
The Siroccos had the best of it all through,
the two Miss Gregorys, when at the wickets, com-
pletely demoralising the Fernleas. Neither of
these young ladies ever attempted to block any-
thing, but “swiped ” all before them with sur-
prising freedom, and had three out of every fiye
balls in the gutter at the fenec, at every over.
The Fernlea's fielding was of a very feeble descrip-
tion. They never caught any ball they ran after;
and if a girl saw an easy patch coming she would
put her hands up to the ski s a yard apart, and
while she was invoking the aid of Providence, miss
it. It was a pleasant thing, however, upon that
afternoon, when there was a cool and i ppißg
breeze, to watch the gamp, in which there was a
laugh every 10 seoonds. Ic wasn't, however, so
pleasant as to descend into a cellar beneath the
Grand Stand, and obtain refreshment, from a
familiar waiter, at a plank on tressels. There was
a tray of sandwiches down there on an upturned
cask which we saluted with much emphasis. Real
sporting provender this J Never misses either an
athletic gathering, or a raoe meeting.
* * *
There were a whole lot of pleasant-looking
people in the Grand Stand; though, as may be
imagined, they carried on their conversation in
partially subdued tones, owing to the departure,
on the morrow, of sooiety's bright particular star,
Mr. R B Smith! One society item took place,
which we distinctly remember. A stout lady ia
black satin, while promenading, happened to step
on our foot. We immediately begged her pardon.
“ Don’t mention it,” she rejoined, with a pleasant
smile.
* * *
The Permanent Artillery Band struck u»p
at about half-past 2, but being much interested in
the sport; only perforated in a furtive and irre*
gular manner. Their tempo, we noticed; too, was
on occasions defective. This we remarked to a
performer. “ Well," he replied, “ I ean’t help it;
I blow into the d—-d thing as hard as I can.”
. Who is the new Hebridean Jingo ? Why,
Pdrkes the Liberal.
41 The piano sounds the knell of parting day
Next door, the singing pupil shouts high E,
The cornet practises across the way—
And gives the night to anguish and to me.”
The Sydney Globe's definition of the
N.S.W. Civil servants: -“ The incompetent and im-
pertinent individuals to whom political chicanery
has given the opportunity to prey upon the public
funds I”
The Sydney Globe has added a word to
the language: “ Remonstration,” it says, "has
been found useless.” You can’t repress these
young journalists. By and bye we shall have
“ hice ” as the plural to house.
Lord Carington will visit Newcastle and
Maitland this month, and will be received by the
Mayors of those,lugubrious towns, both of whom
are—listen, your Excellency \-undertalterg! How-
ever, we suppose that they, too, hope soon to be
"under the patronage of his Exoellency the
Governor.” .
The North Shore , Tramway can't be
opened yet because ,“ the pumps for raising the
water from the main to the engine sheds have not
yet been received from”—where? “Melbourne.”
Yet the frantic free-traders of N.S.W. are never
tired of saying that Victoria is being ruined by htr
Protectionist .potley. Seems like it, doesn’t it.
when the cornstalk Government has to get her to
manufacture necessary articles for the us© of the
mother oolony.
At last N.SiW. has a Minist&r for Lands
with firmness enough to decline to all rw any more
water frontages to be alienated. Whatever the
fate of the present Ministry may bo it is hoped
they will stay long enough in office to get Mr.
Copeland's Water Frontage Bill made law. What
a howl there will be from the lind-syndioate3
though!
Tom Nunn and Nat. Thompson, two
cricketers of intercolonial fame, made a ‘ duck”
each last Friday in a match at Sydney between
Carroll’s team and 11 "coppers.” The match was
going agaiqst the “foorce,” whereupon their
stalwart skipper disputed the umpire's decision,
and the othnr side sot giviDg in he knocked the
stumps out of the perpendicular, and the proceed-
ings came to an unceremonious end.
A Tuesday’s cablegram states that the
great musician Liezt has arrived in England and
been accorded an ovation. Writing just before
last mail, Liszt “ wished it to be distinctly under-
stood that he was coming to England merely as a
guest, and that he eeuld not entertain proposals
lor playing in public. My fingers,” he remarked,
“ are 75 years old, and Bulow, Saint Saens, Rubia-
stein, and Walfer Bache, play my compositions
much better than my dilapidated self.”
Id another column appears an address
from Mr. Frederick Lee, J.P., to the members of
the Australian Mutual Provident Society. Mr.
Lee is a candid ate for a seat at the Board of Direc-
tors, and takes a strong view upon that very de-
batable and important question, the proposed
establishment of a branch of the sooiety in England.
Hjs i 3 an old oolonist, a man of education and anility,
and of imdcyibted honour and integrity; to him
the merit is aue of various benefloial reforms in
the management of this ho# Splendid institution.
We think that were Mr. Lea elected it would tend
greatly to the benefit of the members, who should
above all things bear in mind that in assurance
affairs the cautious man is often the man who is
right.
The complimentary banquet last Monday
night at Aarons Exchange Hotel, Sydney, to Mr.
R. Burdett Smith, M.L.A , seemed, from the tenor
of the speeches, to have been inaugurated for the
purpose of bringing special pressure to bear upon
the guest, so as to induce him to get married.
During the evening almost frantic appeals were
made to him to worry up a wife in England and
bring her back with him. Dan. O'Connor even
going so far in the generosity of the moment as to
promise to “ dance the first set of quadrilles with
her” immediately on arrival; but to all the appeals
our beau ideal of manly beauty only returned a
smile that might mean anything, and a blush that-
in the tstimauon of all was portentous oi
something, though no one knew exactly what.
It was a thoroughly good-humoured affair.
Burdett himself was wreathed in happiness,
Sir John Robertson was jovial, as is his wont;
Mr. Wisdom smiled, with a comprehensive-
ness that spoke volumes for the state of his
digestion; and Harry Levien readied up several
really new jokes speciady for the occasion. The
only peroeptiDle jar was when Alphabetical Bailey
insisted on charging the A.S.N. Company with
diddling” a Spaniard out of £5OO, an allegation!
which Mr. Dibbs insisted on denying in plain andi
unvarnisned terms. Mr. W. Bradley, in respond-
ing for the ladies, took advantage of the occasion-
to speak to the youn-g men present on the neces-
sity of early marriages, and crowded more em-
phatic advice on the subject into his iO-minute*
oration than Dr. Jefferis can belt out of < he same
theme in an hour, but as Mr. Bradley inadvertently
admitted that he had 12—or 21, we forget exactly
which—daughters of hi* own, his earnest counsel
was taken cum grano salis. Mr. Bennett spoke
volubly in proposing the " Parliament,” and if he
had only infused just a trifle more variety Into
his oration he m gut have secured an even more
marvellous success than he did. Whv the band
should have played ‘Cheer, hoys, Cheer, your
Mother s got a Mangle,” after this toss.,
we were at a loss to understand-unless indeed ic
was thought that as Messrs. Nt lid and Abbott have
lately,been washing so much dirty linen the-r,
m aDgle should be added to the furniture or
the House. Dan. O’Connor read some alleged*
letters trom air Alfred Stephen and Sir James
Martin, but as those eminent lawyers both re-
gretted that they were not able “for to be
present we are prone to believe that though the
name was Marlin’s namp, the words were the
words of O Connor. Mr. fmrdett Smith may well
be gratified at the success of the aff iir, and it thev
did give him a little too much chaff that, alas I has
alwas been his portion. Yale ! Burdett
Wolfe's Schnapps restores digestion.
., TraveHers and persons of feeble constitu-
tion take Wolfe’s Schnapp3.
Mb. Di Coubot Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Soi/te
Wales). Author of the “Miners' Handy Book”
“Mining.Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Mimual of
Minemls, Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
S?r< M ‘ nln * u , Beresford Chambers!
58 Castlereagh-street, Sydney* *
The great anti-bilious remedy Wolfe’s
Schnapps*
Avoid excitement, dissipation, and late*
hours, and take Wolfe’s Schnapps.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“An Inquirer after Trubh” wants to
know if we can tell him what is the meaning of
Political Economy, as understood hy our leading
legislators of the present day. Certainly we can,
with pleasure. In the beginning of the 16th, or
to speak more correctly, towards the end of the
17th century, a disciple of the celebrated Maohia
velli, one Patrick O’Regan by name, mentions in
his admirable treatise on physical science, which
he was compelled to leave unfinished tnrough
being run over and killed by a hearse driven by
German idiot named Schwartzenberger, who
owing to Mr. Melville’s Bill for the proper [inter
ment of dead bodies not being the law of the lane
in those days, was acquitted on the ground o:
temporary insanity, brought on by attending Sal-
vation Ariny shivoos, and reading the Herald
leaders to his deaf father, who was after-
words hung, because in a quarrel with
a barman — which, despite the existence 01
an absurd Licensing Act, which is ab-
solutely worthless, unless its provisions,
founded, as they are, upon the convictions of a
bigoted section of the community, and upheld by
judges who are a disgrace to their sex; even
though, as my lord of Verulam says, judges
should know that, salus populi suprema lex, and
don’t let them forget it, although it is hard to see
where the salus populi comes in when an ice-cream
brewer is fined 10j. for tooting his horn, and yet a
bastard descendant of either Romutus, or Remus,
er the wolf can perch under one's window and
make night hideous half the day in company with
a broken-winded hurdy-gurdy and a sore-eyed
baboon, both of which, according to Sir Henry
Pafkes, are perfectly unconstitutional, and never
tolerated except in a land where the down-trodden
Irish peasant is jumped on by the ruthless heels of
the bloody, base, and brutal Sassenach, whose
power, not even “the legal luminassity av a
Wintworth, nor the gorjis graudjur av a Den-
nihee ’’ Yerra!
• • •
“ It is officially announced that her Majesty
the Queen will open the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition on the 4th May.’’—Reuter's telegram.
This is from a little London paper, and
may be taken as a fair sample of “society ” senti-
ment " The Prince of Wales, with characteristic
good sense, made light of the riots, as far as they
might be significant of a revolutionary spirit
being abroad in the metropolis. He enjoyed his
shooting without the slightest misgiving.”—The
office*mandolin. Thanks:—
Lb Roi S’amuse.
His Royal H. was out of town,
His strength, it was recruiting,
And when the news was wired down
He quite enjoyed his shooting;
What mattered, though a raging mob,
All ragged, starved, and dirty,
Should groan and grumble, smash, and rob—
It made no odds to Bertie.
A person in the purple born
(As “ A.E.” was—when younger)
Has oool contempt for garments torn,
And faces pinched with hunger;
So though, perchance, surprised to learn
The mob was getting “ shirty,”
The matter gave him no concern—
It made no odds to Bertie.
They might be crying out for bread
And daily waxing thinner,
But he, thank God 1 is nioely f ed—
The people find his dinner:
And so he went on potting game
(Some twenty brace, or thirty),
They went on starving all the same—
rpade no odds to Bertie.1
‘Walter Scott Harrison, late a private in
the New South Wales contingent which went to
the Soudan, appeared at the City Court to-day for
ntoxioation, and was dismissed on pleading that
he sun of the Soudan had affected his head.”—■
Melbourne paper.
Now, Walter was a soldier man,
He answered Dailey’s call,
And sailed away for the Soudan
To like a soldier fall:
He was among that honoured few
Who made the trip abroad,
And ever draw their daily screw
But never drew the sword.
In battles with the potted-meat,
And charges on the bread,
Our Walter never knew defeat—
The van he always led;
While we were sitting at our ease,
Or loafing in a pub.,
He on his knees, across the seas,
Was fighting with the grub.
Alas! that we should have to tell
A narrative so sad I
Avery fearful fate befell
This noble soldier lad;
’Twas not that any blood was shed,
(Save gravy on his plate)
But oh! the sun above his head
Affected Walter’s pate.
Pray ponder well, then William D.,
• The mischief you have done.
How many heroes may there be
Whose mental course is run?
Though Walter’s limbs may still remain
Intact, this poor young man
Has left his little bit of brain
Behind in the Soudan.
Each time he takes a lager beer,
Or little drop of rum,
Poor Walter weeps a silent tear
To find he’s overcome;
And bitter is his cup of woe—
He wishes he were dead—
Since, though his body faced the foe,
The climate turned his head.
• » *
THE WRONG! END.
Mr. Abigail, M.P., said, in the N.B.W. As-
sembly, “ he was a little bit of an Irishman.”
Well, if you are, the Pates, we trust,
No more like you will send;
Por all kriow, sure, that “ little bit ”
Must be at the wrong end.
* *' *
Judgiag from a last week’s cablegram,
General Prendergast, over in Burmah, is running
Lord Wolseley close with soft things in the way
of slaughter. Thb reads like a real picnic for the
British arms-* 1 Surprised a body of 400 rebels on
the road to Yemethen. In the engagement whiol
ensued, the enemy lost 60 killed, and many
wounded, the British loss being slight
A lot of poor undersized heathen
They went on the road to YemctheD,
When up came the BritoDS
As lively as kittens,
And left very few heathens a-breathin’.
As for that British loss being “slight,” we dbetour
bottom dollar that there were only two or three
cases of overstrain, resulting from sticking too
many Burmese in the back while they were bolt-
ing.
» * *
The Jingoes are on the rampage in Vic-
toria. The “Australian Natives Association’
(which, when you come to think of it, has no
raison d etre except for the puryose of breeding a
certain enmity between classes) is busily engaged in
preparing protests against anybody—except Aus-
tralia—annexing anything. Despairing, though*
of awakening the Home Government to the
horrors of our position, one “ Australian Native ”
has published a spirit-stirring “ Appeal ” in the
Melbourne Hebald. A short extract will be
suhieient to show that the blood of his British
ancestors still courses through the veins of this
irrepressible Native:—" Every boy and man in the
colonies she uld be steadily trained to arm a, and
taught that those who establish outposts around
his native land are his natural enemies. ,, When
such rot as this is published in a paper without
any footnote to explain that the article is a joke
(or paid for) things are going too far. In this year
of grace we had fondly hoped the thrice-damned
doctrine that Frenchmen and Germans are
“ Native’s ” natural enemies because their respec-
tive Governments have adopted the- English sys-
tem of annexation was dead and done with. The
notion of training such fiery natives as this*“to
arms ” is quite appalling. When all the Herrs and
Monsieurs were blows to atoms we should be hav*
ing civil war, Q?~more likely-a massacre of the
new chums,
Beaok, the champion oarsman, has been
witching the Melbourne people with his matchless
oratory. At all times fluent of speech, William
rose to a Demostbenesiau height in addressing the
bicyclists—“l think it a great honour to be
amoDgst such a jolly lot of sportsmen. Bicycling
is one of the greatest sports I know of. I believe
in all kinds of manly athletic sports, which, I be-
lieve bioycling to be. But I am no great judge
of bicycling,” &c,, The champion had been
worked up to an unusual pitch of enthusiasm, you
must remember, or the ohairman, after drinking
his health, suggested that the company should
smash their glasses, so that mortal lips might
never profane them more. The countenance of
Beach, while this work of destruction was in pro-
gress, expressed unqualified joy. In the words of
a Herald reporter, “ he was greatly pleased with
the incident.” At that blissful moment no dark
misgivings crossed his muscular mind. But the
time may come—ah! Pass the banjo—
LEAVING THE SHELL.
Jehoshophatl good gracious l pass us down the
tambourine;
So that Exhibition really will be opened by the
Queen!
Old England’s royal ruler, if the papers rightly
tell,
Will for this occasion kindly quit the precincts of
her shell.
Y. will promenade (in person) down the centre of
the hall
(What joy for Graham Berry and what happiness
for Saul!)
Declare the building open and then catch a special
train
Which will bear its weary burden back to solitude
again.
Oh, hush all harsh complainings—let no vulgar
scoffer say
That our gracious Queen does little in proportion
to her pay;
That she Bhirks the slightest trouble, save in put-
ting by the pelf.
And let ministers make journeys which she ought
to make herself.
For, all things now considered, such remarks aro
out of place,
On two or three occasions has she lately shown her
face;
She went in state to Parliament and now, Jehosho-
phatl
Will attend our exhibition, yea, in person— think
of that!
And when the hungry multitude was almost at her
door,
Did not our Sovereign Lady give a " monkey ” to
the poor ?
From this and other incidents, whereon we cannot
dwell,
We venture the assertion that she’s coming from
her shell.
Now can it be that Gladstone thought it best to
give the “ tip •
That a nasty storm, is brewing, meaning danger to
the ship;
And that on the troubled waters she must pour a
little oil,
’Stead of sitting in her cabin calmly counting up
the spoil ?
'Tis probable. But we, her far-off subjects in the
South,
Will not be so ill-mannered as to scrutinise the
mouth
Of this latest royal gift-horse—let ue, therefore,
merely say
That the Queen appears in person on the blessed
4th of May.
A FRAGILE WAIF.
Neath the pall of the dark dead day,
In the misty rain and sleet,
A daughter of Eve had tripped by the way,
And lay prone in the cheerless street.
Her thin pale lips were clenched,
Her 11 owing hair was damp,
And fell on her cheeks like marble blenched,
She wasn’t a common tramp.
Her weary eyelids fell,
And the silken lashes lay
Like golden bars, so she could not tell
If ’twere night or the bright noonday.
You ask why she lay there,
A waif and a stray, by the wind
Blown thither, an object of vulgar stare,
Who knows whom she left behind ?
But one there was, whose heart,
In all the pitiless crowd,
Forbade him to act the Levite’s part,
So his head o’er her own he bowed*
In his brawny arms her form
He raised with a pityiDg sigh
And bore it to where the lights gleamed warm
In a mansion that stood hard by*
"Phwat’s the charrge,” said tji'e portly host,
As he opened the grease-grimed sheet,
Said the Bobby, proceeding his buttocks to
toast,
“ She was spachless and dhrunk on my beat I”
EVANESCENT FAME.
Three little years ago, Bill Beach,
How little did you dream
Such honours lay within your reach!
As you rowed down the stream
You never ventured, Bill, to boast
Your name would be a people’s toast,
A sentimental theme. •
But now you roll in boundless wealth
And have a right to “gas,”
For when admirers drink your health
They chuck away the glass,
That none therefrom again may drink;
Say, William, did you ever think
These things would come to pass?
We call to mind when Hanlan came—
’Twas but the other day—
Men carried on the same old game;
And, Bill, we humbly pray
Your luck than his may better be,
And you may never live to see
Your glory fade away.
Political
Poits
There are now two uncertificated insol-
vents sitting in the N.S.W. Assembly, 111 1III
“ The Governor of Victoria and his family
reached Melbourne in the steamer Pafeena from
Launceston, He proceeded straight to the Trea-
sury*” That’s always the place the titled drones
go straight for.
“Sir Patrick Jennings, the N.S.W. Colonial
Treasurer, is very much over-worked just now.
. . He is compiling the financial statement.” Yes,
we should think so. We dare say it will be pretty
hard work to convince the public that the Soudan
goat-murder business only cost £130,000.
BIFFED I
“A lecture will shortly be given by Mr.
W. H. L. Bailey, the subject beiDg ‘Sir Henry
Parkes as a Statesman.’ ”
The audience upon that night
• Will have some comfort, which
Will be to murmur, " Weil, he is
A little thing to pitch.”
At Canterbury, which is represented in
the House of Commons by Henniker Heaton,
one-sixth of the population is dependent on
charity, 2000 persons have been relieved out of the
epeoml fund raised to alleviate the distress, and
aoout 1000 persons are receiving permanent relief
from the guardians of the city charities. Henniker,
England is a great country—for your set.
'ihe following police order, says a London
paper, will shortly be issued:—“Take notice that
from this date all unemployed persons are to wear
the regulation muzzle while in the streets, unless
they are led by a string. Any unemployed person
found unmuzzled in the streets will be sent to the
workhouse, and if not claimed in three days will
be destroyed in the lethal chamber at the Home
for Lost Dogs.” v —^
Sir Patrick Jennings is nothing if not an
administrator, and we would humbly suggest that
in tnat role even he can’t be considered a pheno-
menal success. This opinion is held by the Civil
servants who had to wait three days‘for their
money this month, because ss it is alleged Sir
Patrick quite forgot to get Lord CariDgton to sign
the necessary warrant before his departure on
that gay and festive trip to Mudgee and elewhere.
At Newcastle, Judge Dowling said:—
“ Crime is rampant in the colony, and our gaols
a i e^ verl o i^^ r,sr -” When a distinguished member
of the legislative Council of New South Walts
heard Judge Dowling’s remark quoted, he cried—
And honest people must pay to keep' these
scoundrels alive in gaol! What we want is a score
more of doggers and hangmen.” Another re-
marked— ‘lam with you as to the hangmeD, but
a soore mbre of doggers will want a Bcore more of
gaols. As a matter of economy we should hang
nstead of flog.”
Such is the infamy of the British lawyer-
pension system that Lord Halsbury (Hardinge
Uiffard), who was Lord Chancellor of the late Tory
Ministry, and only held that post during the law
and Upper House holidays, now gets £5000 a year
for the rest of his natural life. Should he live to
be 80 he will have drawn, in consideration of his
six months’ services, for which he was well paid,
£150,000! Lord Brougham was Lord Chancellor lor
years, lived for 08 years after his appointment,
and drew in pension-money £330,000 screwed ©ut
of the toil and sweat and sorrow and suffering of
English millions. After all, we think there really
must be a hell.
Mr. Foster, M.L.A., during the debate in
N.8.W. Assembly on the payment of members’
question, stated that the Queen received money
for her work. Mr. Water-Jug Fester 1b mistaken.
Queen Victoria receives the money, but the work
is never performed. Even if it were* the payment
is out of all proportion to the services rendered.
The Queen is paid, and her palaces are maintained
in order that she may be the hostess of the nation,
that she may not only entertain the great ones ot
her own land, but the mighty from other countries;
but she does not do so; she misaDDroDriataa tha
screws’ t® he ho "d3 it carefullJ-X scrapes »nl
nvorelu save. She owns land and property
pared7nrn e Va7 ea i n A . merloa > in order to be pre-
fhonirt day ’ l n order to have a shelter
COm * t 0 4 n 6 WOrßt ‘ The old Iad -V
haL t £? t H? red h . er nest well, and mapy a bullet.
bleas h’e£ e fnnJi ly ®Brttan trlnee has reason to
How it tw d +v. ess for * the meAor y o* Albert,
not alac t fi ( tl l eo ?J? ntrymeQ of Mr * Brown do
?rf, ala ? Profit to the same extent? Does the
national modesty retard them ?
the well-known teetotal
^ the Colonial Secretary
authoriS? hi r A ce t 0 thia Parliament a Bill to
*ohoWin by tbe Government the inspection of all
and educatioaai establish-
menta throughout the colony ?”
?h«wMi bottle8 k orn i old man, beware,
Thiioittr®?! 11V 9 W ’ who to you no quartet,
T Or t vn^h r o ii me do£S .y°ur frail brain impair,
Or you have very mixed got upon water.
mischief, not enough quite rife
ind seek to^Hrnn 1 n o r??i U f smal J ??' Parian stave,
Btlr . u P a religious strife—
x ou with a mind already in the grave.
BUt done y ! WaSt6 W ° rdS ? ~ Your day . old boy, is
T?i 1 L l i?i. v , er8e „ 8 ? e8 Bight you can’t enjoy:
dea th-knell s sounded of you, ev’ry one
Yourself, smug Davies, and the Greatl&cfoyi
is growing up here a strong and
party who will some day demand Home
sj?}® for . th , eße colonies—not the mockery of Home
Rule which we now have. It is nrntAndna
of l thffm ft hna f + ee and Be l f ' -governed, whereas eaoh
as support a ‘ Governor • imposed
upon them by the British, and a Legislative
Council consisting of individuals who Jonk to
England for their cue, and depend upon the crown
for any scraps of Brummagem honour it mav ha-
stow. They are like Lezarus lying at tSWet
ffiSilft 1 ® and gathering up the Scanty crumbs
1 from royalty s table, while the dogs—their
m?F*ho? e bangers-on—lick their sores and yelp
„ th „ eir admiration of the arrangement. Now
and ogam a beggar is carried by angel-newspapers
and politicians home to the London Abraham’s
Mm Jh hore he haa some bauble bestowed upon
au?,J? y *h« crown. As long as this pious and holy
a|Banoe lasts, independence is impossible, and the
-.olonies must remain mere appanages of the
British crown; and the people will ever need, like
“i‘ dr «* V tl ? e ? oth « r & oversight of the old count
ry * If Ireland gets Home Buie, the moral effect
upon these colonies must be healthful and in-
Beware of those who oppose itl”—
Henniker Heaton is a man of ideas. We
anxious that Australia and Great Britain
should be united” by the penny-post. Some-
nSr/ ‘o P? y the PostmaD, and as that
part of the Australian population which has
correspondenc© with Borland consists
chiefly, if not entirely, of the wealthy classes and
of the importers, it would be monstrous to tax
lar / e f °r the benefit of that
bigh-tone d , select and much-scented circle who
condescend to live at Potts Point and
b» y ® £ elatives resldi ?& out Of Park-lane and
Cavendish-square. But Henniker’s proposal for a
universal penny-post over the British Empire is
one of the biggest ideas ever struck in the in-
terests of Imperialism and of—himself. Heaton’s
u was y 6 r ted J n the Commons by about
41 votes, and in the Lords, a cable now tells us,
Lord Wolverton, Postmaster-General, an-
tbat be was at present discussing asceme
of postage in the direction of Henniker’s pro-
P, 08ft i f °r a universal penny postage throughout
wbtoh he believed would give
satisfaction to the colonies.” There is but one
trouble in the way—nothing which Henniker pro-
poses will give satisfaction to the colonies. But
here is a small prophecy. The Heatonian
scheme will succfed, and Henniker will be
knighted—in course of time.
THE ANACONDA.
In the woods of Central America a creature
exists wmch is known as the Anaconda. This is a
serpent of enormous size, which crushes a baffalo
or a deer within its folds as easily as a man with a
patent set of nature’s dentistry cracks a walnut.
Its breath is poison to all human being's who come
within its mlluence. It is one of those terrible
and revolting creatures which typify evil, and
which, to use Wordsworth’s words;—
“ One impulsive from a vernal wood
May teach you more of man,
Of moral evil and of good,
r i han all the sages can.”
Surrounded by all the luxuriance of tropical
vegetation, this horrible creature, perfect in its
hideousness, stretched along a limb of some gigan-
tic tree, waits placidly for its victims. These
browsing in unconsciousness of the presence of
danger, or haply frisking merrily upon the sward,
are suddenly gripped in deadly toils, crushed
beslavered, and swallowed.
This is, surely, a practical pioture of evil. One
might well consider that this creature, the Ana-
conda, is an embodiment of the Satan, of whom
Milton wrote:—
"So farewell hope, and with hope farewell fear.
■> Farewell remorse; all good to me is lost,
Evil be thou my good.”
We can best recognise evil ih this practica
aspect. But, alas! evil sometimes encompasses the
wisest man, and gathers him within its toils ere he
knows it, and when he knows it, all to late. Mora
—disessj creeps upon a man as surely as physioa
ailment, and
‘‘Evil is wrought by want of thought,
As well as want of heart.”
Well, then, i;* it for him who guards against the
approaches of the • e—assured that only by keep-
mg his physical sy tjm wholesome, he can main-
tain his mind and spirituality uncorrupted. The
Anaconda of disease awaits us at every turn. We
never dream of its presence until, perhaps, too
late, and when gathered irrevocably in its toils
Take, for example, Bright’s disease of the kidneys-
the victual knows nofmat ails him! often, indeed
his medical attendant is unable to diagnose his
case—setting it down to exhaustion, dyspepsia,
ordinary kidney troubles. The characteristic of
Bright’s disease is that the victum is all alomr
ignorant of the dire peril whioh threatens him.
Ue sees not the terrible Anaconda. He feels
languid, loses ilesh and weight, is miserable and
hipped, but thinks that a few ordinary tonics will
put him straight. Miserable delusion 1 Mr. John
Water worth, of 62; Dargham-straet. Lyndhurst,
Sydney, knows better. He says that “ during the
last eight months of 1883, 1 was laid up. I suffered
the greatest agony—pains in my scrotum and down
the inside pf my thighs, across my back, up my spine
—ending m frightful headaches. My urine was
thick and muddy. I had no rest-neither in bed
nor out of it. I tried several physicians, who all
told me I was suffering from a severe form of
Brignt’s disease, and one doctor advised me to go
into the hospital, as I Gould not possibly live thotg
than a few months. A irlend of mine sent me a
cutting from an American paper, concerning
Warner s safe cure, a medicine which had cured I
person suffering from this dread disease. The
symptoms described were like my own, and I
wrote at once to H. H. Warner, of Kochester, New
Fork. U. S. A., and received a reply, telling me to
send to San Francisco for the cure. This whs. of
course, before the establishment of the laboratory
in Melbourne, which was done in May,lßßs. lam
rejoiced that this invaluable medicine may be now
procured m the colonies. I procured a dozen
bottles from San Francisco, and was cured. I was
freed from paip, and have now sound health, and
have gained 3j lb, in weight, working hard at very
laborious occupation every day. Unhesitatingly
I recommend Warner’s safe cure.” Many who
read Mr. Waterworks testimony will, perhaps,
recall their own inexplicable sufferings. They
will be wise if they follow his example, and appeal
to a remedy which has been weighed carefully,
and has not been found wanting. The most pre-
judiced and obstinate must yeild before evidence
whioh is based i.pon a grateful experience, and
whioh is the utievaace of ore who has been
snatohed froui tliU Aiidoonda of disease.
THE POLITICAL SWASHBUCKLER.
It has been seen, that H. Levien
Has quite a fistic attitude.
It seems as if he’d like to “ biff ”
A few it he’d the latitude !
This torturer for ever, sir.
Of some dull, weary platitude,
It is our task to sternly ask—
How dare he have an “ attitude ”?


ft Vj
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
PROM
hm
Scrofula on Neck.
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of • the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure us a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Every Sense.
[EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
NOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS,FL! ES.BEETLES MOSQUITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
| HARMLESS TO BIRDS I
kihiiiSL^-
m
n
'FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
RUSES'
m
u s
1 1
cl
$
<I X a ? av.o .6,yi
>:V> c&Z
&'s<y r „sp-
l 3
CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS!
WHOLESALE
FELTON- GRIMWADEV.C O
MELBOURN E —-
Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
0
CO
m
CJ
CT2
no
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
M Sttssix Strut, £tdnsy.
YANKEE DOODLE
3*.
S 0H 5
SON Be
~g>gVD N Cl
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
X
~ COhque mR „
X tojacco 3?
DIXSON a SOWS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere,
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
JjlOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, an sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description-
SILYER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all Sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FILRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SBATING3, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, fioB, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
<Z Jitgevf/pxe) ■tf'lMetaden
F- E
rm
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ao.
Churoh Music, Anthems, Psalters, Servioes, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.'
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in paroels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, oheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stook,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
■ILLIAH BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a eountry in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
Street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST PRIC.E.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. RfI'IIKINES & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 PITT ITREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
9 3
Mils
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
lmna ediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MAR'S HALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK-" TONIC NERVINE.”
ABAJfJS, CERTAIN, <& SPEEDY CORE tor Ner-
yousand General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonlo and soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 265. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
ghemists, 104-6 Marfeht-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUYELLES 1
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
©-loss
Nervous debility cured.-L) man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fra h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, contai i
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766, Bydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
.DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
MIHMM
27„.Y0RK STREET,
v =32. mumey,;
47
'
sC®
BFECIALLY IMPOSTS!) FOR CITY OK COUNTRY USB,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
LOWEST PRICES.
!
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
liar BVBBY VEHICLE GUAttAtfTEAO


SOCIALS
One of the most pleasing features in the
life of H.E. the Governor of N.S.W. and Lady
Carington since their arrival in the colony has
toeen the large scale anl frequency with which
they have sought to extend their hospitality and
become acquainted with the people amongst
whom their lot is cast. Lord Cariagton has more
than onoe stated that his objeot is to reconcile
rather than to extend cliquism, and following the
example of .the Heir Apparent, he recognises that
the social platform is no longer restricted as in
the last generation. If this be so in London, how
much more have the barriers been broken down
in Sydney 1 To some narrow-minded and essen-
tially ooloniai snobs this freedom is objection-
able. Mrs. A., whose social greatness exists
mainly in her own fancy, but whose husband has
an offic'al position, cannot tolerate that Mrs. B , a
star of greater magnitude in many res-
peots, should be for a moment on the
samefootiog; that Mrs. C., of whose immediate an-
cestors history is now compulsorily silent, should
occupy a seat in the drawing-room at Govern-
ment House, side by side with Mrs. D„ whose
parents have by industry and frugality laid by a
larger sum oE money than has attended the C.
family; and that the daughters of the D. should
in beauty, grace, and accomplishmpnts eclipse the
C. stock, is*’ unpardonable. , Consequently, there
are in certain circles several storms in several tea-
pots. A remedy is to bo found, and, according to
gossip, four dames were to be selected to stand
sponsor for those who should be entitled to pass
the Government House portals. One of the four
resolutely declined to join the alliance, so another
was substituted, and their poor heads are busy
settling how the attack shall be made; for, to their
credit be it recorded, these ladies, whose indig-
nation has grown so hot, are rather awed when
the idea of suggesting to Lady Cariogtoa
that she must weed the ran Vs is put before them
as an imperative duty. Rumour has it that one is
to be the spokeswoman, and that until she has
found courage or audacity sufficient to express
her ideas in words the others will stay away.
Within the past week the daughter of odo of the
geleoted four explained to a friend that until Lady
had found an appnrtunity of inform ng Lady
Carington how very mixei the gatherings at
Government House were becomiag, and had pro
perly remonstrated with her ladyship, the youth-
ful speaker and her relatives must absent them-
selves. Poor Lady Cariogtonl she may well be
puzzled to understand the number and degrees of
relationship between the vast family of—well,
never mind—some member of which is for ever in
her presence; but no one who has met the wife of
the Governor can, for a moment, doubt what will
he her answer, backed by the opinion of her hus-
band should any individual presume to tamper
with her kindness by aoting, as it is said, the
Ladies Blank, and Blank, and Blank, and Mrs.
Blank are about to act.
* * *
At Lady Cariaiton’s last afternoon recep-
tion, the atter dance was smaller and tho costutnes
much more sombre than usual. Lady Carington
wore a pretty gown of pale blue shade, with light
bonnet, ornate with plumes, to match the dress;
Mbs Harbord, a pure white lawn, and a becoming
high straw bonnet trimmed with maiz?-coloured
ribbon and flowers ; Mrs. Professor Gurney, a
shot-striped til*: Miss Gurney, a rioh golden
brown sheeny silk, with bonnet to match; Mrs.
M'Quade, a quiet but stylish looking dress of
brown gros-graio; Jennings* in blac*£ l&oo;
Miss Jennings, cream, with vest and sash of crimson
silk; Mrs. 8. A. Josmh, black, very handsomely
beaded; the Mis.ts Darley, in cream; Mrs. Sydney
Burdekin wore a pretty cdstume of cream, trimmed
with ciel blue ; Miss Clara Manning, white
tasso silk, light blue tulle bonnet; Mill Taylors
very pretty gown was of pink delaine, with white
velvet vest; Miss Woodbouse, brown cloth, with
vest, collar, and cuffs of plush; Miss Day, ele-
phant’s breath cloth, trimmed with velvet and
beads; Mias Watt, very stylish costume of slate
embroidered with silver; Mrs. Purves, white tasso
silk, trimmed with lace, cardinal bonnet, and para-
sol- Mies Enid Macarthur looked nice in white;
Mrs. George Monteflore, in irridescent silk and
lace; Mrs. Slydark, blue; Mrs. Professor Andrews,
fawn tasso cloth spotted with brown, small brown
straw bonnet. The band of the Permanent Artil-
lery played ia the Gat deas throughout the after-
n00Q -
The “ Pink Pearl ” and the Government
House people drew a large and fashionable audi-
ence to the Gaiety Theatre last Saturday night.
Lady Carington wore a stylish-looking gown cut
low and had her hair beautifully dressed, and a
small spray of flowers rested slightly to one side
of the head. The Governor did not arrive until
close upon 9 o’clock, when he was greeted by lusty
cheers. , * *
The usual quarterly invitation evening in
connection with Boyle and Co.’s singing class,
came off on Thursday, April 1st. A good pro-
gramme was gone through, but the principal
feature was the diversification of the scale, in
which the pupils sang at first sight from the scales
several operatic airs in unison and harmony. The
proceediogs terminated at 10 30.
The fourteenth Metropolitan Liedertafel
concert was given in the Masonic Hall last Mon-
day night, and proved, on the whole, to be the
most successful ever given by the society. The
choruse", with the exception of ‘Sweet and Low,
were capitally sung; but in the exception the
voices flattened rather distressingly to wards the
finish and left an unpleasant impression. The
Quaint “Chinese March” was, of cours?, one of
the favourites, and was sung by special request.
The "Image of the Rose,” which is really a
tenor solo with humming accompaniment, the
soloist (Mr. Callaghan) attacked too hesitatingly,
but however, soon recovered his usual self-pos-
session. and his clear voice raDg out pleasantly.
The same singer gave a delightful interpretation
of Blumenthal’s “ Evening Song, and when he
does succeed in getting rid of certain mannerisms
which have always been peculiar to him, he will
certainly be one of our brat tenors. Mr.
Gee was a pleasant surprise to all tho3e
who, in days gone by, have oftime* listened
to and eDjoyed his musicianly singing. His voice
as full and fresh as ever, and he sang ‘ The
King’s Minstrel,” and “Across the far blu* hills,
Marie,” excellently. Sydney sustained a severe
loss when Mr. Gee betook himself t > the cea'y
oity, where he now wastes his sweetness, at least
the sweetness of his voice. After all, Mr. Allpress
strength lies in hs reallv capital violin-play log,
and not in his hair, as is too generally supposed.
He gave a remarkable exhibition of his skill in a
fantasia on Scotch airs, and when his violin
sobbed out “ Auld Robin Gray ” not a few
amongst the audience were actually moved to
tears — fact. Miss Francis 8aville sang rather
well and looked charming. Both her solos were
encored, and both •noarea were acoepted. Oae of
her encore songs was “ Tit for Tat," which she
gave with much archness, though in a rather un-
steady and fatigued voice. Miss Gertrude Palmer
commenced her pianoforte solo, “Andante
Spinialo and Polonaise ” (Chopin), with a finish
and grace quite surprising in so young a
performer, but got a little faulty in the
second part, but this composition is a
severe test for any player, and all thinpss consi-
dered the young lady's performance was by no
means devoid of merit. Two instrumental quar-
tette, played bv Herren Kretschmann, widiemann,
Allpress, and Patek, were most interesting items,
and were certainly amongst the gems of the con-
cert. The hall was beautifully decorated for
the occasion, and shortly after 8 o’clock Mr.
Trickett escorted Lady Carington followed by
the Hon. Judith Harbord, to her seat. Midway
through the concert Mr. Trickett (president of the
society) spoke a few words to the Governor and
begged him to accept on behalf of the society the
Golden Lyre. Of course he did accept it, especially
as Mis« Trickett .offered to attach it to hia coat.
And after Lord Carington had, in a rather subdued
sort of voice, addressed a few words to the mem-
bers of the society, the concert proceeded. Mr.
Huenerbein attended to the accompaniments with
his usual skill.
* * *
A brilliant and joyous assemblage opened
the dancing season at Arthursleigh, Bur wood, ou
the 3l9t March. The guests were met at the rail-
way station by conveyance?, a piece of attention
in keeping with the other efforts made by the
entertainers, Mr. and Mrs. William Beaumont, for
the enjoyment of those who were fortunate
enough to share tbe Arthursleigh hospitality.
The grounds were hung with Chinese lanterns,
whioh proiuced the usual picturesque effect, and
the floor was all that could be desired. The Misses
Beaumont wore black satin chenille, pink pluph,
and' magnificent ostrich feather; pink satin broche
trimmed with eidelweiss lace; cardinal satin also
adorned with edelweiss; and white silk (or some-
thing)—£N B.—A man wrote this ]— decked with
roses, respectively. A noticeable dress was that
of Miss Devlin—a silk chenille oyer bright car-
dinal silk; and Miss Hill, black net skirt with satin
body of the new crushed masher shade. Just here
our notes run out, and we regret this, for there
was a lady whose name we forget in a dress whose
colour and material we don’t quite remember, and
another whose step was as light as that of the mid-
night feline, whom we should much like to men-
tion. The dew-gemmed grass was glittering in
the morning sun before the gates closed behind
the last of the departing worshippers of the waltz,
♦ * ♦
It is rumoured that Mr. Wallop, A.D.C. to
the Governor of Tasmania, will shortly leave for
Eagland, and that Mr. French, the son of a well-
known Victorian squatter, will take his place.
■ • •
There is talk in England of au engage-
ment between the second daughter of the Prince
and Prificsss of Wales and Prince Leopold of
Anhalt Dessau, who, if rumour speaks the truth,
is on? of the wealthiest men in Europe. We wish
we had some subjects to rob.
* » *
An engagement whioh will interest those
who have the entree to Hobart society Is that of
Miss Cicely A. Weld, daughter of Sir Frederick
Weld, late Governor of Tasmasia, and at present
Governor of the Straits Settlements, to Major
Jaspar Graham Mayne, of the Royal Inniskillens,
and only son of the late Colonel Mayne of the
L'engal staff.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Nithsdale Private Social April 14.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,— We haven’t had a particularly
festive week; still, since last I wrote, life ihas
meandered atong pleasantly enough. We have
had soma nice music, enjoyable parties, and
another reception at Government Hou&e which,
however, wasn’t a very brilliant affair. The
weather was aul 1 , the people ditto, and worst of
all, my new bonnet wasn’t at all becoming, which
was enough in itself to spoil one’s enjoyment.
Lady Ckrington, with her usual amiability, flitted
hither and thither amongst her guests trying her
very utmost to make things lively, but the
lowering clouds seemed to have a depressing
influence, and although everybody said, it was a
delightful afternoon,” they deceived themselves
and the truth was not in them, or why were there
so many early departures? But perhaps it is too
mueh to expect these receptions to be always
successes.
It’s very aggravating to think that just as soon
as Herr Patels gets his promenade concerts into
full swing, he is compelled to change his
quarters, as the Exhibition hutlding will be re-
quired very shortly for the “Japanese Village.
Some of our professional artistes have been very
disagreeable about these Saturday night con-
certs. They seem to fancy it is infra,
dia* to have anything to do with them;
but knowing, as we all do know, that really first-
class artists take part in the cheap concerts at
homp, this squeamlshnessseoms strange. Besides,
if the audiences are mostly composed of the
respectable but less wealthy classes, the performer
inrt expected to sink to a ‘‘popular level, but
rather to do his level best to raise them to his.
The difficulties Herr Patek has met with and
fought against in forming this musical corps have
been Immense, but I never would have believed
his brother aitists would have added to them by
refusing their assistance. I thought their souls
were too big to allow of their beipg obliged to so
jealously guard their dignity, but it appears I was
wrong. Madame Kellermann and a few others
have been werthy exceptions, and their contribu-
tions to last Saturday night’s concert were well
appreciated by the large audience.
Yes, we are to have a “Japanese Village” fixed
up in the Exhibition Building, but surely we
aren’t going mad again about all “ things that are
Japanese,” or I pity the poor little Japs who
arrived in the Japanese man-o’-war last Monday.
What lives the girls will lead them, to be sure!
They were prime favourites, I remember, when
they were in this port some three or four years
ago, and quite acquisitions in our ball-rooms.
Did you ever hear how love-making Is carried on
In Japan? It’s just in this wise. When there is a
marriageable daughter in a home an empty
flower-pot enoiroleli by a ring is suspended by
chains from one of the windows. Seerng
the flower-pot, his Japaceseship, provided lie
wishes to marry the same daughter, simply places
a rare plant therein, which is considered equiva-
lent to a proposal. If he is successful in his suit,
the young lady Intimates as much by tenderly
watering and tending the plant with her own
i hands, but if he should be rejected, the plant is
I hurled to the groundand Is seen the next day lying
withered and forsaken on the roadway bolow.
Well, this is all very poetical and delicate, but it
wouldn’t do at all for us matter-of-fact English,
would it? Taere isn’t half enough detail in that
sort of oourtsbio for us—indeed there isn’t. But
Japanese and Chinese are very queer about their
womankind. It seems that in former times Chinese
ladies never dreamt of wandering about the
streets, not even when attended by their servants,
but of late years things are changed, for we hear
of their business streets being thronged by idle 1
female promenaders decked in flue array. How-
ever, this state of affairsjias so soandallsed some
of the Chinese officials that it is proposed to pre-
sent a petition to the Emperor, in which it is sug-
gested that these festive ladies be cured of their
peripatetic tendencies. It goes so far as to suggest
that if a woman is seen on a public street accom-
panied by her servant, the latter be arrested;
if, however, any are sufficiently audacious as to
appear alone, they will be “ run in ” and the heads
of their families will be punished in their stead.
But, further still, if the delinquents belong to the
military order, their soldier husbands or fathers
must themselves be floaued for the misbehaviour
of their womenkind. What a peculiar sense of
justice the Chinese must have, to be surel But
perhaps the hearts of their women are tender, and
the authorities beiDg aware of this have proposed
the flogging of the hubbies and fathers in order to
make su>e that the fair ones will sever again
offend. I don't think we need complain after this
of our lack of liberty of action.
I lately heard a funny tale of an old, ha—well,
old gentleman, who recently died in one of the
colonies. It appears that when a certain English
baronet proposed for the hand of the old boy s
daughter, he, with admirable caution, put him off
for a while until he had time to hire an Bnglish
detective or enquiry office to find out whether his
would-be son-in-law was really a baronet, and
what his antecedents and habits were. If only the
baronet had put a detective on the track of the
man whose daughter he wooed, in order to flod all
about his antecedents and habits, his hair would
probably have stood on end for a month. Possi-
bly the old fellow thought it high time some good
blood was brought into the family, and he was
naturally anxious to feel certain that he wasn’t
being duped.
One of the daily papers says it has been re-
quested) to state “that there is no truth in the
report, which first obtained circulation in Mel-
bourne, that the Marquis of Normanby, the late
Governor of Victoria, is aboufrjto be married to a
young lady of Sydney.” There are so many ladies
in Sydney that the Individual who answers for
them all undertakes a stupendous responsibility.
The paper’s informant may be able to speak qn be-
half of a ‘ certain young lady.” But how, dear, about
that vast multitude of uil certain young ladies,
who, as history makes us all aware, would accept
a coronet, even at the hands of Earl Methuselah ?
We had a nice little impromptu entertainment
in the Theatre Koyal the other night. We went
to see “ Dark Days," but our fun had notbiog to
do with the play, which, sooth to say, dragged not
a little. But close by us two ladies sat, one of
them tenderly holding a beautiful bouquet with
ribbons and billet-doux- attached. We wondered
who was to be the recipient of this marvel of the
florist's art, when, without the slightest excuse
for any enthusiasm, and just in the midst of a con-
versation between Vincent and his mother-in-law-
to-be, the bouquet flopped on to the stage. We
presumed the young lady’s heart had gone out to
Mr. Vincent, as the njother-in-law was quite out
of the question, but—unfeeling man I—he took as
much notice of the flowers which fell stalks sky-
ward, as my revered parent does of my applica-
tions for an increased allowance, Indeed less, for
he didn’t even show any temper. But the thing
was so comical that the whole theatre was in a
titter for fully five minutes, and the worst of it
was tho poor flowers lay negleeted the whole
evening till after the curtain fell, when either the
"big drum” or “trombone” annexed them—
billet-doux and all. No w, if this much-gone young
I lady had been one of the lady cricketers she might
have practised a good round-armer, and sent her
flowers straight at the admired one’s head, and
thus have forced his attention to them. It would
haye spoilt hie speech certainly, and altogether
have disturbed the play, but what of that ? I felt
quite sorry for the poor lady, however, for
Sydneyites are so excessively appreciative of the
ridiculous that upon this particular night they
cou d hardly coatatn their mirth, and her chagrin
at not only having her gift slighted, but also to
find her act afforded so much mirth to others must
have been great indeed. But why will girls be so
silly I
The Rev. Mr. Jefferis discoursed, last Sun-
day night, on "Bachelor life.” The gist of his
discourse was that there should be ho such thing
as bachelors, after a certain age, as no properly
disposed young man should abstain from marriage.
He (the rev. gentleman) holds that it isn’t desir-
able for young men to live in lodgings—they have
too much freedom and de quite too much as they
please. He says there is great danger of a young
man being contaminated by the promiscuous
society he may be thrown amongst in a boarding-
house; but now, dear, whatever sort of weak
creatures are thes 1 * we call men if they can’t keep
straight, ho matter what kind of people they come
into Contact with ? Mr. J. says that, when he was in
London, ia order to keep good and not be as other
men are (at all events, ho leads us to understand
that) he refused all companionship; but he didn’t
find a solitary life congenial, and doesn’t advise
anyone to follow his example. As far as I can see.
then, a young man, in order to shape his life after
Mr. Jefferis, must either get married or else de-
mand a guarantee of good behaviour from all his
fellew-boarders. This latter course savours far
too much of the Pharisee for my liking; the
former, however, I must own, is sensible enough
—indeed, I should be a traitor to my sex if I didn’t
think so, shouldn’t I, dear ?
I quite forgot to tell you that Miss Nellie Banks
has returned from London and gave a pianoforte
recital the other night in Messrs. Paling’s rooms.
She has won a senior certificate in London, but in
order to become a really first-class pianist she has
heaps of work still in front of her. You remem-
ber hearing her play some years ago here at one of
Signora Fabric’ concerts and how pleased we were
with her ? But so many excellent pianists have
swarmed upon us since that we have grown to
expect something more than nice playing from a
public performer. I believe Miss Banks intends to
practise her profession here, and I have not the
slightest doubt that she will make an excel-
lent teacher, coming as she does from ohe of the
best musical schools in the world.
We are getting on—we of the weaker sex, I
mean, for I hear that Mrs. Crawford, widow of
the late Paris correspondent of the Daily News,
has not only obtained the post held by her
late husband, but she has also been elected an
honorary member of the Cobden Club, of which
she is the only female member. I really believe
men are beginning to treat us as intelligent
creatures at last. Oh, and Louise Michel has been
set free, and it is said she has improved wonder-
fully in appearance since her imprisonment, but
from what I can remember of her picture, there
was plenty of room for that. And what do you
think? She is dovotedly attached to —tats. She
had actually no less than four as prison com-
panions, and would not now part with them for
any consideration. What a queer mixture she is
to be sure I
It was rumoured that the ladies' cricket match
was to eventuate last Thursday, and it was only
when would-be spectators reached Moore Park
and saw the ground unoccupied that it oocurred
to thfcm it was the Ist of April. Too bad, wasn t
it ? I believe it was played last Monday, and I
should certainly have gone had I not been afflicted
with that dreadful nineteenth-century complaint
—want of time. I had three calls to make, and my
dressmaker to interview, so how could 1 think of
the match ? Ned went, though, but he is very
ouiet about it. I don’t think he quite approves of
ladies playing crioket—says it spoils their com-
plexions and makes them look coarse. Bait that 8
only liis opinion, you know.
Yours as over,
MAB.
Wolfe's Schnapps for the overstrained
nerves.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages,, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Fitt-street.
JjIUKNITUm 1 ■ lOW ROOMS
BRADLh Y, NEWTON, Mid LAMB,
o*Qpnnell and Spring streets, Sydney-
XT ALL FURNITURE, Ml*
M QHAXRB, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE aud BID!
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SBCRBTAIRBS,
~ Ik and LOUNGE CHAIRS. _
,RA WING-ROOM SUITES, in JuXQIJISITB
I taste, fee very latest fashion; well worthy of
leetlon. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS tor Choloe China, &e.
YBRT ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. '> ' - ■
"OVELTIES In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
1 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms, druat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).— WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
e-glass door; WASHSTAND,
and tile bach and Towol rail;
wife swing glass attached -
BOARD, and I CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 10 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
N‘
FURNITURI
od.; Dining Tab
sera, from
_ .E. —Pine Tables, from IQs.
Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
i s. od.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.:
heist of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s i
~•“ ■ a, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
idar Chiffoniers, irom «».; war
im 53 105.: Clothes Horses, from 10s. od.; Writing
,bies, witii Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
'ON, A LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
r‘lANui)'Oijixn,
strong, and dura
»•_»& r’IAN O JfU ft'i' A, Kuarttiileou.
iOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
apass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
ua S9. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only,
"radley. Newton, and Lamb.
• iouaa
Trtohord full
W.»
»
■
T
!’
=3
XhYERMANTEL MIRRORS/Handsome
Vi able designs in Black and Gold, with SW e
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prieei.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, of Bed-
tli rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
R
O’Conne
OCKING EASY CH AIRS, elegant and restful,
a spadallty. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
inell-street. ■
RAWING- ROOM CABINETS.— Early English,
Aofflo-Jrtpanflse, aud Cniopendale designs.
Just openal BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Bpring & O Connell
XI RAW G-ROOM TONITUR|.-The
I 9 development of fashion, ROSE wuujj ana
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically Inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite are now^on
view in oar Bhowrooms.Avialt or inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
n©nunnu TiMIR-
W nuu UIUOI VAAVXW-
Will well repay ii&pectioH. n*nnnnfll!-«it.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAfIIB, O Oonnen ac.
imBLDING-SCREENS (3 and theDraw
Jb ing and Dining Rooms atid Office. Brad.ay
Newton, and Lsmb._
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Ghsirr,
Gr INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Cjpnnell-atreet.. _
T> ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES. 203.; and
_K) large variety of CbairS, &o ; specia * §?»*
£tra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture warehousemen, Spring & O Connell sta.
Ay/fARELE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
Jji SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurant),
smoking rooms, Jtc. .
SELF-ADJUSTING tit AMMO OK CHAIR-
I Patented.
m,
This ehalr adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and trtce versa, at the will 0*
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in
construction; works automatically. The Above
cut represents only two of the numerous Positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and wife but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body.
Lid gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four *a?he« iH
when f c ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in oanvas, if required,
2a. 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Deßks, &o. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb. _ _
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY.
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell stfl-
OPYING PRESSE3. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Conneil streets. __
WALL MIRRORS and BRACK ETS-NoveltieS
in plush and velvet* and in all weeds,
from 6/6. • —•
TGTLEgTnT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
Hi enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, ana
Lamb. . -
fOMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN |
/ Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lame.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 0x 8, 070; 8 x 8,.9/-; »* “•
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 12 x 8,14/6; 12 x 10, -5/6. „
Vl ' BRADLEY, NEWTON, andJjAMß^
ICE~CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
375. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Bpring » na
O’Connell streets.
, -
i SpiiUgiftQd O’OQUasU
c
c


BY FLOOD ADD FIELD.
More power to the National Cyclists
Union of England, which has decided that no
prizes above tht> value of 10 guineas are to be
given at aoy race meeting held under its auspices
except in the case of challenge-trophies w-ioh
have to be won more than onoe.
* * *
We are on the eve of our cycling season,
and the N.B.W. Union might well take into con-
sideration the advisableness of following in the
footsteps of the National Union. As in sculling
circles, trophies are not conducive to tho best in-
terests of amateurism, and the fun and sport of
racing for a five guinea trophy settles down into
“ cut out the running and win at all hazards in a
quasi-professional race for a hundred-guinea
plate or a ninety-guinea Brinsmead piano.
• * •
Though it appeared in print before the
late bicycling contingent started for the Cabbage
Garden, we have not quite got ovot our hilarity
at the modest letter which aopsared in one of the
dailies over the name of one of our prominent
bicyclists, suggesting that the city should be
scoured for subscriptions to pay the expenses of
the bicyclists who visited Melbourne, and holding
up the Intercolonial eight as an example why it
should be done. Should tV.e eight, alter weeks of
self-denial and hard work, secure a victory, they
will each receive a medal to the value of a few
pounds, ia contradistinction to the wheelmen,
who went over op the pot-bunt for 100-guinea
plates and trities of that sort.
* • ■
We hear that the president of theN.S.W.
Cyclists’ Union has resignation in his mind’s eye,
and, should the rumour prove to be correct, it is
to be hoped the bicyclists will elect as his succes-
sor a wheelman outside the trade, and one who
will uphold the amateur status in its strictest
sense.
» * *
When writhing, at the finish of la9t season,
under the lashings of the Association Ground
trustees, the opening of the Ashfleld Ground came
as welcome to wheelmen as a good square meal to
a starving maD, and the two most prominent
cycling clubs promised to stand by it during the
coming season. Until the programmes of the
Sydney and Suburban meetings come out, we
shall not be certain whether It wai the champagne
or the representatives of the above clubs who
promised to support the plucky promoters of the
Ashheld Grounu.
* * •
The Junior Cricket Association must think
that the 12 players, picked to represent them, are
a frisky lot of youagsters and require a deal of
looking after, as they have decided that a manager,
scorer, and secretary accompany the team across
the Border. And suoh a giddy crowd the “juniors
are, with their flowing beards and exaggerated
foreheads. Wbat a farce, when Sydney possesses
youna players now playing as good cricket as the
Hip Van Winkle Juniors, and who In the future
may blossom into intercolonial and international
cricketers. It would be to the interest of the
game to limit the age at which a player can take
a place in a “junior “intercolonial team.
* v *
The Melbourne “push” went straight for
their man “Tub Scott” as captain of .the Aus-
tralian Eleven. Sammy Jones proposed and Bvans
seconded Tommy Ganett, whose qualifications for
the position are decidc-diy before Scott's 1 , but the
Vic.’s couldn’t se-s anyone but a member of their
own crowd. It was brought as a point against
Garrett that it was undesirable to have a bowler as
captain, but Scott's greatest enemy could not
urge a failing of that description against him,
either In bowling or— [Suflice it to say that Scott
Is Captain of the Australian Eleven.-Ed. B 1
* * * .
The American citizens of Sydney are
making a praiseworthy attempt to popularize the
game of base-ball In the colony. Amongst the
promoters are men of “realgrit,” and they are
determined not to spare any labour or expense in
order to gain a footing for the national game of
the “ Yankees.’’
* * *
Captain Machtll, the great English turf
celebrity, has submitted to the racing authorities
at home a proposal to the effect that in future all
jockeys who have not ridden a winner shall be
entitled to a certain allowance in the way of
weight. As everyone has not the luck of an
Archer, this might cause a little fairer distribution
of Fortune’s favours, but, the inducements al-
ready held out to the boys to run “ byes ” are so
great that it seems doubtful if Captain Machell’s
suggestion is really the good thing it looks on
paper. Dark horses are continually “ ridden with
a heavy rein,” and otherwise “Baved” until they
are fairly thrown ia for a big pool, and it is quite
on the cards that a dark jeekey may bide his ti ie
until he can make certain of making a grand coup
as well, it is stated the captain is not on the best
of terms with Fred. Archer, and it may be more
for a slap at the “ tinman ” than the Interests of
the turf that the captain tabled his proposal. <
* * *
Not muoh more than 18 months ago, a
poor, brow-beaten, irresponsible body, yclept the
N.B.W. Cricketing Association, had not a say, and
hardly a cent to- Its name. Now, however, their
banking account is nearly £5OO, and they some-
times have the audacity to give a bit of a wriggle
when “ King Phil.” and Co. flit on them a little more
heavily than usnal. We take no small credit to
ourselves for the part we have played in assisting
to this desirable state of things, and, in course of
time, we trust to see the Association Cricket
Ground entirely under the control of the body
best calculated to manage It—the Cricket Associa-
tion.
*- * *
A real good one is Smith, the English
pugilist, who recently had Alf. Greenfield beaten
to all intents and purposes when the roughs cut
the ropes, and made things lively to a degree.
Smith is a young Hercules, 22 years of age, stand-
ing sft. 9j41n., and weighing 12st. 111 b. In condition.
He is not at all likely to get on another match in
England, and will, no doubt, try for a match with
BulTivan, but the Yankee is not likely to fight again
with the raw ’uns, and it remains to be seen if
Smith is as good a boxer as fighter. The recent
mill came off at Maisons : Lafitte, a pretty spot
near Paris, and exceeded in savagery and unfair-,
ness any that Bell’s Life ever chronicled. “ The
Midland men’s conduct was disgraceful in the ex-
treme.” Knuckle-dusters were used freely. Smith
was kicked in the jaw when down, robberies from
the person were frequent, and carriages were at-
tempted to be overturned. The tactics of the
roughs who sided with Sayers were repeated, and
the last hope of a revival of ring-fighting received
its death-blow when Smith and Greenfield met at
Maisons-Lafitte.
* * *
The most noticeable feature of the Sydney
Driving Park Club meeting on Saturday last was
the amount of whip used, both in the pony and
trotting races. In the former a pony was treated
to the whip almost from the jump* and had an
enraged carter treated a jibbipg horse in the city
to the same amount of punishment he would
have figured at the police court on Monday morn-
ing for a certainty. In one division of the Grand
Handicap Trot one horse In particular was getting
over the ground in grand style, when the driver
thought fit to lay his whip on like the crack of a
Pistol, and, as a natural consequence, the horse
broke. Maud S. might stand this sort ol thing
(although we do not suppose her driver would be
ass enough to apply it), for trot Is her natural
gait, but to bring down a punishing whalebone
with a slashing cut on an outsider means 1 break.”
Bailor Boy won the Pony Handicap; Minnie won
the Maiden Trot; and All Sorts, at level money,
beat Dozy for the Handicap Trot.
* * *
The hero of of Windsor Farm races was H
Kinsela’fl gelding Fuse, who won the First Hand!-
cap, the Windsor Farm Handicap, and then
finished a few inches behind Sundial for the
Welter Handicap.
* • *
The winner of the Disposal Handicap at
Windsor Farm, over a seven-furlong course, carried
63t. 131 b. At the Driving Park Club meeting 14-
hand ponies, over a two miles course, carried Bst.
7ib. We commend this to the handioappers who
placed the crushers on the ponies.
* ■ •.
The first of the best-two-out-of-three
match between the six-tonners, the Sao Sand
Assegai, came off on Saturday over a course to
Long Reef and back, when the last named secured
a leg-in. Wb en the Assegai first arrived in Sydney
waters from Victoria, where she was put together,
we little thought she would, ’ere the end of the
season, show the Sao over an outside course, but
improvements by Mr. Reeks, and handling, have
done the deed, and unless Doctor Milford wins the
second event over the Manly course on Saturday
next, the Assegai will have earned the reputation
of the crack six-tonner. Should the doctor prove
sucoe ssful on Saturday next, the final event will
be sailed on the following Saturday, over the out-
side course as sailed on 3rd inst. X
a * *
On Sunday 'morning the N.S.W. Inter-
colonial eight-oar crew did a row at high pressure
from the top lof the course to the Brothers, hut
the time so lar has not been given forth from the
housetops. The crew start Dy express.] train this
Thursday, for the convincing ground. The men
appear so far to be in the best of health and
spiritp, and it is to be hoped their preparation will
not be overdone, for we would rather see an
amateur crew a shade on the lusty side than, weak
and overtrained.
* * *
The Oxford and Cambridge boat-race was
rowed over the Putney to Mortlake course on
Saturday last, wh«m Cambridge won by less than a
length in 23min. 39349*0. This makes the fortieth
contest between the Universities, of which Oxford
has scored 33 wins to its rivals’ 11. In 1817 they
rowed a dead heat.
* * *
Next Saturday evening Peter Jackson,
the hero of the recent Jaekson-Dooley fight, takes
a benefit at Lawrence Eoley’s Hall. The “ Pro-
fessor” has some real good ’uns amongst his
THE FLORIST RETURNED HIS CARD.
“YES, MR. M'DUDE, THE BOUQUET IS VERY PRETTY; BUT WHAT IS THE MEANING
OF THIS CARD WITH 'NOT TO EXCEED FOUR SHILLINGS’ WRITTEN ON THE BACK?”
pupils, and should they roll up on Saturday right
some first-class work with the mittens may re
looked for as a certainty.
* *
Of late years Irish horses have generally
been to the lore in the Liverpool Grand National
Steeplechase, but this year’s winner, Old Joe, is
the property of a Scotch M.F.H. A good deal of
north country canniness appears to have directed
the coup, as Old Joe s name isn’t mentioned in the
quotations to hand by last mail. Too Good and
Gamecock, the second and third horses, both ran
in the interests of the Irish division. By the way,
it is possible that Fred. Archer made his debut as
a cross-country rider in the big steeplechase. Latest
advices spoke of him as likely to have the mount
on a horse called Ringlet.
* * *
Rowing criticisms are proverbially eccen-
tric, but for a real gem commend us to the Aus-
tralasian report on the Victorian eight. Here
is a specimen:—“ No. 6 is good all round; he is
slightly inclined to hang over his oar, but could
easily remedy this, and supply the length his
stroke wants by swinging further backward and
letting his shoulders fall back at the floishi he
also works the right shoulder and elbow a trine
awkwardly when feathering.” If a man who
rows short, hangs ever his oar, and feathers un-
gracefully is *’ good all round,” we should like to
have the Australasian’s description of someone
who isn’t good all round. But even the most
capable analysis of individual form is of little
value in conveying a notion of the collective
merit of a boat’s crew, and the opinions of self-
prophesying experts, who feel called upon to dis-
cover faults and excellences not apparent to the
ordinary intelligent observer, is worth very little
in these matters. When the Oxford and Cam-
bridge crews are putting in their final prepara-
tions on the Thames the amateur critics seldom or
never fail to find the winner, whereas the profes-
sionals to a man nearly always swear by the
wrong lot. As regards the present Victorian eight
it looks a pretty good one taken all round.
* * *
Now that Mr. Hat ful of Cricket has ini-
tiated our girls into the mysteries of his favourite
game, why shouldn’t Foley start a team ot female
bruisers also ? He would only be resuscitating a
noble British pastime, if we may judge by an ad.
in the London Daily Post, 1138, which says;—
“ Whereas, I, Ann Field, of Stoke Newington, ass-
driver, well known for my abilities in boxing in
my own defence wherever it happened in my way.
having been affronted by Mrs. Stokes, styled the
European ebampioness, do fairly invite her to a
trial of hey best skill in boxing for £lO, fair rise
and fall; and question not, hut to give her S':ch
proofs of my judgment that shall oblige her to
acknowledge me championess of the stage, to the
entire satisfaction of all my friends.” I. Eliza-
beth Stokes, of the city of London, have not
fought in this way since I fought the famous box-
ing woman of Billingsgate 29 minutes, and gained
a complete victory (which is six years ago); but as
the famous Stoke Newington ass-woman dares me
to fight her for the £lO, l do assure her I will not
fail meeting her for the said sum, and doubt not
that the blows which I shall present her with will
be more difficult for her to digest than any she
ever gave her asses. N.B.—There will be the
diversion of cudgel-playing as usual.” It was usual
in these high-toned contests for the fair cham-
pions to hold a half-crown in each hand, and if one
of the competitors dropped a coin the battle was
given against her. This prevented hair-woolling
and scratching, and, as Alfred would say, took
well and gave,” &o.
* * *
The N.S.W. Cricket Association's share of
the proceeds of the last Intercolonial match was
£BOO.
* • *
Having safely piloted the Sydney ladies’
team over the shoals which beset beginners at
cricket, the fertile brain of the enthusiastic Mr.
F. Ironside is contemplating another novelty
wherewith to surprise and attract the patrons of
the willow. His next move will, we believe, be
the organising of a team of aboriginal boys from
the southern part of the colony. If really in search
of another novelty he need not go so far afield as
this. Eleven Chinamen might be picked up in
George-street north, Sydney, who could be trained
in a few weeks to hold their own against Some of
the prominent junior clubs.
A little fashion, a little care for whatisgoingoD
in the realms of taste and elegance, will do no one
any harm, In spite of what some of our i®"*? .
divines say, and notwithstanding all that pur s
allege and Quakers promulgate. A matron ox
flve-and-tbirty is none the worse dressed
a la mode, and young ladles or seventeen or the
ahouts are iDiinitely more likely comfort
ably settled in life if they array themselves in
garments bright and gay. than of c °°*'* nt is w n o t
social sackclcth and ashes. Economy is not
dowdineas any more than Extravagance means
fashion and style. Perfection in dress is as surely
the mark of a lady as economical expenditure is
clearly within the hounds of such a conclusion,
and it is with a view to the combination of these
two precious attributes in fashion’s consummation
that we ask our friends to visit us.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium.
> Haymarket only.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Ltthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
AC rated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street; Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney. April 6, 18E6,
TBNDBRS for PUBLIC WO® K , B f * n< L J? Vm"
PUBS.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For fullparti-
culars see Govkrnmhnt Gazbtts, a flic of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender win be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied!
with.
The Government does not bind itself to acoept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. LYNE.
A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY.
Medical skill has not hitherto been able to grapple
wither check the alarming increase of liver and
kidney complaints, and thousands of persons have
succumbed to these diseases without ever having
been relieved from suffering from the first day of
the attack.
About five years since Dr. Bell, a renowned
physician of tbe United States, whilst treating
what was considered a hopeless case of liver com-
plaint, discovt red that, by the use of a remedy
composed purely of vegetable matter, diseases of
the liver and kidneys oould be cured in their worst
stages.
The doctor, who has had complete success in the
treatment of these diseases by the use of his
wonderful remedy, has now become so convinced
of its merit and value that he has decided to relin-
quish his general practice and to devote his whole
time and attention to the manufacture and sale of
his discovery.
The doctor, in placing the remedy before the
public has decided to style it “ Dr. Bell’s Liver
and Kidney Bitters.”
Laboratories are being started in New York,
Londor, Canada, New Zealand, and Australis, and
the representative of the doctor, who is now in
Sydney making the necessary arrangements, has
appointed the well-known firm of Messrs. Butcher,
Fehon, and Co., agents for New South Wales and
Queensland.
Dr. Bell is desirous of combining charity with
profit and of giving to the poor who are unable to
purchase medicine the benefit of his discovery.
Any poor person or the manager of any Hospital
Asylum, or Old People’s Home, wherein are per-
sons suffering from diseases of the liver or- kid-
neys, may. by communicating with the agents,
Messrs. Butcher, FeboD, and Co., Sydney and Bris-
bane, stating tDat they are unable to pay for
medicine, such communication to be accompanied
by a certificate from a minister of the Gospel, be
furnished with the remedy free of charge. There
is no doubt that Dr. Beil’s Bitters will become the
standard remedy for diseases of the liver and kid-
neys throughout the world.*
R. C. ME SSI TER,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
and MEN’i MERCER,
Supplies Clothing which, for quality, make, and
price, cannot be surpassed in Sydney.
tST" Quality of Goods in Mercery Department
without equal.
Your patronage repectfully solicited.
Intending Visitors to the Colonial Exhibition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
"THE WONDER" COACH
Carried 1935 passengers last season. Six horses to
be driven up Holy.well Hill, St. Albans.
Dr. Rumney (of “RIDGE’S FOOD” fame) is again
running his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach,
“THE WONDKB,” between Londonand at. Albans,
leaving Hatchett's Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
every morning at 10 45, returning- to Piccadilly at
6.15, p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St Albans for lunch and
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is
one of the FINJBBT and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other Particulars apply to
“ WONDER ” Coach Office, Hatchett's Hotel, Pic-
cadilly, London, England.
Brts. Si Co.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of FAT STOCK at HOMEBUSH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office—l7s CASTLERE AG H STREET.


Woman Tiems
“In keeping house, it is the dinner parties
and the wine which swell up the expenses.”—
Mortimer Franklyn.
“ I wish that Adam had died with all his
ribs in his body.”—Dion Boucieault wrote this
long before he got married in Sydney.
At Wellington, N.Z , a loeal lady, on being
Introduced to Cardinal Moran, said. “Whereare
you stopping, your Eminence? I should like to
call on Mrs. Moran.”
At a late Adelaide wedding, we read, the
bride’s mother “ unexpectedly entered the sacred
edifice, and approaching the altar dealt the bride
such a stinging blow on the face that the young
woman was nearly knocked over the communion
rails.” A wedding-breakfast must be a gay and
festive affair when the bride sits with raw beef-
steak over her eye and a vinegar-and-brown-paper
poultice on her nose while the old man acknow-
ledges the toast of her health.
THE TROUBLES OF A BULLETIN BARD.
How sweet is the hardly earned slumber
Of him who e’er works for his bread,
How grateful, when midnight’s strokes number,
To lay on the pillow one’s head,
And dream through the hours of the night time,
Of absence from earth and its ills,
But awakening’s hard at the right time—
To give baby syrup of squills.
Miss Catherine Thomson, the female
“Vagabond” of Melbourne, did not make such a
“splash” by going into Kew Asylum as a mad
woman. Her narrative disappoints sensation-
hunters. She did not find the eyes gouged out of
a single lunatic, nor one hip-joint “broken Into
smithereens.” " There was not,” she says, “ suffi-
cient sympathy manifested, and epileptic patients
were left to lie and kick till they got better.”
Why, our owfi Edith O'Gorman can decoet a hotter
dose of horrors out of the convente she has been
(n.
A modern French writer, Thibouville,
'says:—“A woman’s sentiment is nothing if not
morbid. If she loves, she collects an agglomera-
tion of suspicion, jealousy, pride, manufactured
rapture, and affected melancholy, round an atom
of affection, and dignifies the result with name of
devotiOD. Her grief is the same. It is a com-
pouud of selfishness, display, and affectation. In
only one sentiment, hate, is woman fervent and
sincere. In all else she manufactures her emotion
out of her own characteristic weakness.” We pre-
sume that these remarks only apply to French
women.
The Improver, after all, has its uses, and
unsightly though men may think It, haß proved to
one lady at least that it is often not out of place,
though it may be all behind. This lady, strolling
In an American deer park, became an object of
Suspicion to an enormous stag, who with a want of
gallantry rarely found in the male animal, charged
her suddenly and with emphasis. His antlers were
aimed fairly and forcibly at her bustle, but upon
its massive proportions she relied, and her con-
fidence was not misplaced. She escaped unhurt,
but the stag Was suffocated before he could un-
twist himself.
Victoria proposed to her late hus-
band. She presented Albert, who dared not ven-
ture to ask for her hand, with a flower. The
significance of the act was not lost upon him. He
wore a close-fitting uniform, buttoned up to the
throat—probably the poor man couldn’t afford a
Shirt—but Wishing to wear the precious gift
Upon his heart he cut a slit In his coat with a pen-
knife ana placed the blossom in it. Later on,
Albert was thanking her for the gracious recep-
tion she had accorded him, when the Queen re-
plied shyly, “If indeed your Highness is so much
pleased with this country, perhaps you would not
object to remaining in it and making it your
home ? ” Etcetera.
Acoording to Vanity Fair, what society
believes about the Dilke ease is this:—“ That Mrs.
Crawford, having sriven up her ‘indiscretion’
With Sir Charles Dilke—having, in fact, been
abandoned by him—for 11 months, was living, and
intending to Jive, as many another has done, happy
ever afterwards with her husband in domestic
felioity and forgetfulness. But when that last
fatal anonymous letter arrived, she saw it aud re-
flected. She saw that she was pursued by a piti-
less, unrelenting enemy, whom she believed to be
no other than her mother. She felt that if, after
Bo long as a whole year of good conduct and desire
to atone for the past, she was not left alone by her
ttnemy, she never would be left alone. She might
indeed destroy this letter before her husband saw
others would reach him (as others had) at
his club or hiB office. It was clear that there was
no peace Or truce for her. What should she do ?
She Would do this. She would make a clean
breast of it, and would thus at once bring to an
end the strain she could no longer bear, and at the
same time bo avenged both on the man who had
debauched and deseited her, and also upon her
mother who was so evidently determined to hunt
her to despair and ruin. And so it was that she
told her story and told it, not merely in
bare outline, but with all the horrible de-
tails which take it outside any common story
of debauchery and desertion.” Vanity Fair
goes on to say that society doesn’t blame
Dilke so much for his indiscretion as for the fact
that when brought to book he behaved, not like a
gentleman, but like a man who had taken and
acted upon the advice of a sharp attorney with an
eye to virtuous dissenters; there was nothing
about his conduct either of the magnificent im-
pudence or of the generous assumption of blade
which in these matters society expects a gentle-
man to show. Suppose the charge to be false-the
mere invention of an hysterical woman. In that
cose Sir Charles’ duty, as a gentleman, was to go
into the box and deny it all, to prove that the lady
was hysterical and deluded, and thus to save her
as well as himself—but her above all. As a gentle-
man It was his duty to do this-his duty
for his own sake; his duty for her sake;
his duty for the sake of her mother, whose
name had been so terribly handled in the affair.
If on the other hand, the charge was thoroughly
and completely true that Dflke could not dare to
KO into the witness-box to deny it, and to expose
himself to having brought agamst him the proms
which, in that case, would have been easily
accessible, then the*e would be a situation in
which his testimony could not avail either to save
the ladv or to save himself, and in which, there-
fore he could not go into tne witness-box at all.
In that case the only course for a gentleman to
take was to stand wholly aside; neither to enter
an appearance nor to make a defence* but to let
the case go by default, and to suffer in silence
anv penalty that the Court might impose upon
him Moreover, society does not view with favour
anv man who, under any circumstances, puts the
fault in a case of this kind wholly upon the
woman, and refuses to bear any part of it himself.
It holds that men and women are liable indis-
cretion;” buc that if ever such indiscretions are
discovered, or alleged, the stronger should shield
the weaker vessel, and the man shoujd take upon
himself a fair share, and even the major share of
the blame- In connection therewith it remembers
the case of Valentine Baker, who, as it holds, did
behave like a gentleman.
“ Purchasers should use caution else they
will have a counterfeit article palmed on them as
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
THIS WICKED WORLD .
Joseph Archman, prior to blowing out
his brains at Melbourne, lay down so that he
mightn’t hurt himself in falling. He was a far-
seeing man Ten persons hanged in England in
two weeks. And yet they say the death penalty
is a preventive I Mr. Rodwell, bathing at
Dunedin recently, was caught by a shark. He
made back to the jetty, but with a leg taken off at
the knee clean ss a surgeon could do it... As
many as six warrants were issued at Wellington,
N.Z., for debtors whose passages had been secured
to London by the s.s. Tongariro, and the bailiffs
had a very busy time hunting them down Only
41 majority in the Commons against Henniker
Heaton's motion to federate the Empire by a
universal penny-postage scheme Four hundred
cats trucked to Bourke, N.S.W., to operate
amongst the rabbits. Three hundred of them
died on the way, but providently arrived at Bourke
just in time for the municipal election... The
Draconian Victorian licensing law is already
a dead letter; the lawyers can drive coaches
and four through it in all directions. The cream
of the joke is that it was draftel by Kerferd, since
elevated to the Bench Rev. Dr.-Jefferjs con-
siders life in lodgings an artificial and unnatural
one. So do we. We'd far rather have £4OOO a year
ai a clergyman and live in a parsonage rent free.
The Macleay Herald says:-“Mr. Grubbs’
departure was followed by the cheers of his fel-
low-townsmen.” Now, why did the Kempsey
people cheer so ? What had Mr. Grubb been doing
to them? Or are cheers the Kempsey vehicle
for sorrow ?....At Auckland (N Z ), Edward Lee,
laboure, shot Emily Neeling dead, and then
suicided. She had refused to accept his addresses,
and he swore they should die together A re-
cently-floated claim In the Mount Morgan region
shows good gold. (N.B.—The gold was bought
from a Rockhampton jeweller.)
* * *
“Yesterday,” writes a young German,
“R— kissed me for the first time. I felt as
though I had been suddenly transported into a
vast cavern where roses were bathed in a sea of
honey and champagne and eau de cologne. It
seemed as though invisible elves shod with dia-
monds were dancing on my every nerve. In the
blood that coursed through my every vein me-
thought that tiny gondolas, manned by angels,
were gently floating. All my body seemed arched
by a magio rainbow 1’.... An American advt.
" Wanted, a good, plain wife; nice figure pre-
ferred; small premium required 1”.... The editor
of a high-class journal for boys in America offered
Mr. Gladstone £lOO for an article of 1500 words, this
being at the rate of 153. a line. Mr. Gladstone de-
clined the offer..,,“Time works wonders,” as the
girl said when she got married after 13 years’ court-
ship Never look a gift-horse In the mouth. Sell
him for what you can get, and let others look—
To her brother: “How does your father regard
me, do you think? ” “ Ob, he says, ‘ If Maud likes to
make a fool of herself, why, let her.’ ’ The sad-
dest part about this life is that the fool-killer
works slowly and the earthquakes swallow up the
wrong class of men... . Sandy Cameron was ordered
by his doctor not to exceed two ounces of spirits
daily. He asked his son how much that was.
“ Sixteen drams,” was the reply. “ What a guid
doctor,” said Sandy. “ Run and tell Donald
M'Tavish and Big John tae cam doon the nicht.”...
A London Tory daily recently published its Society
news under the heading “ Central Criminal Court.”
A sense of the eternal fitness of things has
at length seized our aristocratic contemporary....
Randolph Caldecott, the artist, of Graphic sum-
mer number celebrity, Is dead. Chi Aren of all
ages, from seven to 70, will experience a void not
readily to_be filled Joke from an English
paper “ History Repeats Itself.—B.C. 1707.
* And Joseph spake roughly to his brethren.* A.D.
1886. February.—The Rt. Honble. Joseph Cham-
berlain, do., do., on receiving a Socialist depu-
tation.”- The Crown Prince of Russia Is engaged
to be married to the daughter of the Duke of
Montenegro, a little girl of 13, now at school In
St. Petersburg. The Duke himself is simply the
chief of a horde of semi-savages, and the pro-
posed union is another proof of the strong Pan-
Slavonic proclivities of the Cz»r—3o,ooo new
swords have been ordered by the British War-
Office from Germany, at a time when thousands of
British cutlers are starving. The British Director
of Contracts is likely a German Prince and so out
of practice that he could not, if he tried, write Mr.
Bull’s address .Is this a judgment, or a coincid-
ence, or the effect of evil communications, or
what? Recent enquiries show that of the men
who have made their names familiar all over the
world by ttaet patent medicines, Pierce is para-
lytic, Helmbold an irresponsible Imbecile, Jayne
has perpetuated a line of insane children, Sarsapa"
rilia Ayer is mad, and Warner is a confirmed
Invalid.
The public should be careful they are not
imposed u#>on with imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Heavenly Paradise is frequently
thought about and hoped for, but few strive to
mike an earthly paradise for themselves. After
the crossep, annoyance and exhaustion of busiaess
the quiet, tasty and well-appointed home is appre-
ciated, aud we fail in doing our part to build up an
earthly paradise if we neglect the beautifying of
the minds of the dwellers and the adornment of
the dwelling place. Articles new and beautiful in
design and shapes In Glass and China for the table,
mantels, wails, cabinets and, wa3hstaods intended
for making home happy obtainable at Bray Bros.
China Showroom?, 102 and 404 George-street.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonies.
Kissing is manifestly the finest of all the fine
arts. History contains no record of the first kis?,
but the general belief is that unless Adam was as
homely-looking as a mud fence Eve must have
sneaked a little one from him while he indulged In
that memorable after-dinner sleep. Different
persons kiss in different ways. When the young
man in the country desires to osculate, he grabs
his lady love with the hug of a grizzly bear, and
the row that follows bears a strong resemblance
to the noise of a cow pulling her foot out of a
bog or the popping of a champagne-cork at a
Lord Mayor’s banquet. The esthetic young city
couple do the saccharine business in a more re-
fined style, however, and, as near as we can re-
member, the modus operandi joggles along as
follows. The young male kisser, clad in
Summer field’s unrivalled style, gently places
his left hand round the lair kissers waist
and bi 3 right hand at the back of ner
head, exactly over her bump of amativeneas.
Tnen ho slowly tilts her chin up, or down (as the
case may be) to the proper level, while she closes
her eyes ana gets her mouth into a suitable sort
of shape. He then leans over, and gently regulat-
ing the contract by pressing her head backward
and forward, adminisiers an alopathie dose of
salutes while she sighs and feels as if she was being
waited up to beaven between two hot pancakes,
while all the little angels were pouring treacle and
honey down her back. When properly performed
we believe this is a particularly pleasing opera-
tion, but to our mind, the most delightful kiss of
all is that which a fond mother gives to her dar-
ling boy as he stands before her in all the “pomp
and circumstance” of one of Summerfleld and
Co.’s matchless suit of clothes Mothers should
experiment in this for themselves. One trial will
be quite sufficient.*
Lawyers, Authors, Clergymen and Phy-
sicians are all favourably inclined towards Wolfe s
Schnapps.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of electricity the functions of the
nervous organisation. Easy, graceful, and
elegant. They are worn by the principal
Royal Families of Europe, by the elite of Ameri-
can and Continental Bociety, and are daily en-
dorsed by over one million ladles, and as they qo
not exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
makers, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, aohe, or 111-feeling from
any cause, if you seem “ pretty well,” yet Jack
energy, and do not “feel up to the mark;” if you
suffer from disease, we beg you to at once try
those remarkable curatives. They cannot, and do
not. injure like medicine. Always doing good,
never harm. There is no shock or sensation felt
in wearing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results ; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently the first
day, and often during the first hour they are worn
their wonderful curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nervous and slug-
gish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health-giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practise
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnetods in place of the ordinary corset steels.
They are all equally charged, different only In
quality and design. They are elegant in shape and
finish, made after the best French patterns, and
warranted satisfactory ia every respeot. Those
who have tried them say they will wear ne others.
Most of the above applies equally to the Electric
Belt for gents.
These goods are sent out in a handsome box. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we; will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
Bouth Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover post-
age.
The prices are as follows:
A Corsets 15/- B Corsets 10/6
C Corsets 8/6 D Corsets 6/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, 8/6 !
Electric Belt, 15/-
G ENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... ,'6/-t No. 2 Hair Brush ... 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush ... 9/6 No. 4 Hair Brush ... 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/6 Flesh Brush 13/6
Tooth Brush ... ... 2/6 Curlers 2/6
Insoles 2/6.
All Chemists or Druggists, or direct post free,
one shilling extra.
Military Hair Brushes, pair in case, handsome
goods, 30/- per set. Post free, JEll2s. 6d.
Electric Horse Brush, for lameness and stiffness
in horses, £1 Is. Post free, £1 3j. 6d.
Are universally approved by leading physicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal r omplaints, Jnoipient Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, loss of Voice’
Pysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, lalpitation, dc*
and have cured some of the most obstinate and distressing cases, after all remedies
(so-called) have failed.
Our goods should not be oonfounded with the many spurious and worthless Electric and Magnetic
appliances foisted upon the market by unscrupulous and irresponsible parties. We challenge the
whole world to produce so effective and cheap curative appliances as our Electric Corsets and Belts.
Hair, Flesh, and Tooth Brushes Electric Insoles and Generators. Our “Electric” Corsets and Belts
are more effective than all the magnetic appliances ever Invented, however high priced, as our testi-
monials unimpeachably prove.
' CAUTION.—In consequence of an attempt to substitute inferior and spurious articles for
“Dr. Scott’s Electric,” the Pall Mali Electric Association desire to caution the public against pur-
chasing any counterfeit of the following goods:—"Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr. Scott’s Electric
Belts, Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic Generators, and Dr
Scott’s Electric Insoles ” Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric ” and the name of Dr. Scott*
as also does the box c mtaining same. The extent of our trade, and the marked appreciation of the
public, having Induced certain parties to manufacture a line o’ worthless goods, haviDg something of
the general form and external appearance of ours, and variously styled “ Magneto-Electric or Eleotrio
Magnetic,” we respectfully ask that parties who have been inilueneed by the many testimonials we
publish, ail of which are strictly genuine, or the universal reputation of our goods, to give electricity
a trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the word “ Electric ” appear on every article purchased
In addition to this, we have recently registered a new trade mark—an oval label with our local address
“ Pall Mall Electric Association, 51 Margaret-street, Sydney, N.5.W.,” in marginal lines, encircling the
devise of a mailed hand holding a group of thunderbolts (see cut annexed), a fao-simile of which will
appear on all goods manufactured by Dr. Scott. Beware of fraud.
v<-
r.l K/C
$
r»V>
/q
TRADE
g MARK
D "Sift
pjGLISH SATK U
S v
V
■ss
*s*ft
cviGUSR SATEE^
ilj
=3t
BEET!
LINED WITH MEDICATED FELT
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets and Befts,
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Wood-Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. A. FAY & CO., CINCINNATTI,
AND CARRY - A LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.


JESra/y 3L* iclitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
photographic stock dealers.
Complete Photographic Outnts, in great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS ANU PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
3E 2r;pixa/ti.o:rL of Leased
Great Sale of MUSIC, STATIONERY, BOOKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing
MONDAY NEXT, Bth Inst.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-marked, and a discount of 25 per cent., or 4s. in the £, will be
allowed on previous prices.
The profession and the public are invited to this extraordinary chance of replenishing
their stock of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. 6d., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangings, Embroideries, Vases, &c., all reduced 25 per cent.
Kytriiordinary value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £l. Ask for Circulars for
particulars.
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &e., &c.
Account books, Day books, Ledgers, and Cash books, at wonderfully low prices.
WILLIAM BTJLLAHD,
342 George-street.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle Of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular and fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.’.’ ,
Maltine will increase both the weight afnd flesh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate, females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration. .
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil. ~
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude. _ i?
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Gent. oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef) Wlieat, an( l Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, MuttOll
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One Ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIE., LONDON.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
Eirst-olass Accommodation for Commercials
I3T” PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms. i
jar- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsS EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
IP*
yA l
ll*
P*
toP
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
FERMENI
'
FROM
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&200Z B 0T s
WHOLESALE AGENT
I; 7 ._ 2,
«’Wﬁmmw 3% i3:
m g WE 1A ‘1 «2,1»;
‘ ‘g‘s‘hb‘ Rx“ “A ’5‘:-_-._-: " “:1"?
“ W??? I "i" v’ .21?)
a .,._ 2;»; .
ilvﬁj'ﬂ'c“ '5» ‘ ' y.“
W2 «we 2
'> 1' 138%" 'h 2‘ :
5%,»qu . E'
1' ‘,;‘,‘,(J‘Vlg"‘dn-I§{ .‘H‘; " "641‘ ‘1
'- MWv-s' 7%? 31,9
Q’W‘W‘bfg ,. _ "4:55)
. mwm ,. 41%; 2;
\“chg‘e’ww 2,g;:«\'.‘:22;:;
«2.2;. ,‘gsm‘uaagg‘m‘
\Wwﬁﬁééti‘WE 4, ﬁ‘
a“ $353» 712%? -
““4153“?
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR. OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Pour sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metauie admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRB
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
ft HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
J SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORG E-STREET.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund .
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has A vents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
ARTHUR MWTIN & COMPARY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-.
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c„ from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT .
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED
OP
SUCCESS
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DMPERY BALES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
far- carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
LADY’S BALE,
6 Ladies’ Chemises
f pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good iongcloth and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£K MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRKBSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &e.—with
S rices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
! applied to.
RILEY BROTHERB,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the oelebrated 45 Bales of Drapery
B^LTS.
CURATIVE
ELECTRIC
ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by wearing the MAGNETICAL
ELECTK 1C APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of life-
electricity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT'S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 20s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 20s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
Ts. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10s. Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & GO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS POR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. " Beta,” Bulletin Office.
cSIO| ED
iR
KfeOßff
Essence
OF
remed)
rodsjDEßiLiT'
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through yearn of sulfering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enioying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently, cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 12s , or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, ©r Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTONS
LITER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Soldi Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PILLS


Sweet are the uses of adversity; but give
us a little lemon and the shekels.
A moderately wealthy old crank called
Edwin Thomas Bartlett, a good-looking, warm-
blooded woman of 30 hts wife, and the inevitable
£ arson, the Rev. George Dyson, a Wesleyan
[etbodist, have between them managed to evolve
the sensational Claverton-street (London) Poison-
ing Case. Bartlett, the husband, was an eccentric
of the choicest order. On most subjects he was
sensible enough, but with regard to marriage he
held that every man should have two wives, one
to be kept as itfwere in a glass case, and who should
be on a strict Platonic-affection footing with re-
gard to her “ husband,” and the other to be, as the
Rev. Dyson puts it with exquisite delicacy, re-
served “for household duties.” He began matri-
mony by going through the rite in 1872
with the woman who is now in custody on
suspicion of having caused his death, then
a girl of 16. The marriage-contract expressly
stated that they should live together as two
loving friends only—an arrangement which was
broken through but once in six years A child was
A BUSH IDYLL. —BY A BACK-BLOCK ARTIST.
He would like to learn the use of the stock-
whip, and takes a few lessons from an old hand.
“Ah, sir! I will soon teach you to crack
the whip on horseback.”
. “Don’t be frightened,’’ cried the old
man, “he won’t bite; it is only his play,”
“ Now for a mighty crack,” said he to
himself, as he rose in the stirrups.
“ Look out tbat you don’t get the lash
round his tail, or he’ll*huck ’! ”
“Stick to him, sir, or he’ll throw you.”
And he not only threw him, but rubbed
« it in.
“ You have had a ‘blue-buster,’ and no mis-
take; but you will soon get used to it,” cried
the stockman.
born In '79, which died at birth, and thenceforth the
wife again occup.ed the position assigned to her in
terms of the marriage contract. Her life from
that time seems to have been a most unhappy
one. Her husband constantly invited friends to
visit the house, and encouraged them in paying
Platonic attentions to Mrs. 8., and during 1884 that
gay young cleric, Mr. Dyson, appeared on the
scene. His visits at first were weekly, but he soon
made them tri-weekiy, and at length daily, with a
Sunday supplement. At the inquest the rev. gen-
tleman stated that he visited Mrs. Bartlett “ as a
friend, and also, of course, in his spiritual capa-
city”—but, as a cynical counsel put it, his
spiritual visits always involved the use by
him at Mr. Bartlett’s house of a lounge-
coat and a pair of slippers. The three seem
to have got along very happily indeed, and.
iudging from the evidence, neither of the men
came in the way of the other. It was soulful,
Platonic, unsophisticated affection all round. Tin
jtev. George tells in his own simple language how
THE REV. GEORGE DYSON,
he frequently B„ the beautiful, when
her hub. was a spectator, and, “still more, fre-
quently when he wasn’t.” Mr. Bartlett, according
to the evidence, “ gave ” his wife to the servant of
the Lord, but the gift was evidently in the nature
of a bequest—not to take effect until after his
death. Little wonder that this consummation was
not long delayed. Early in December, Bart-
lett complained that he had been poisoned
with mercury, and on New Year’s Day a
doctor, who was called in to see him, found
him dead in bed. A post-mortem showed
that his stomach was heavily charged with
chloroform, several bottles of which Mr. Dyson
had obtained at different times at Mrs. Bartlett’s
request. In order to get the poison the pious
George had told the chemists that he wanted it
(two ounces at a time, tool) to remove grease-
spots, and as he did not tell the dispensers that the
“grease-spot” had a very pretty wife, they
handed it out to him every time. Mrs. Bartlett in
her statement asserts that the life she led had
driven her to desperation; that her mock-marri-
age and the parson together tormented her be-
yond endurance, and that, exasperated by the un-
deviating strictness with which her husband kept
her to the marriage contract she had resolved in
turn to ensure herself against any attempt on his
part to set it aside, and that she carried a
bottle of chloroform as a defence against even-
tualities. New Year’s Eve she went in to talk to
him as he lay in bed, taking the bottle with her as
usual, and after talking to him for some time he
went to sleep. She also dozed at the foot of the
bed, and on awakiDg dming the night found him
dead, and the chloroform bottle was—well, just
here the evidence is shaky, but an ounce of the
fluid was in his stomach, and as the doctor re-
marked, “It was absurd to suppose that he had
swallowed it for the purpose of curing the tooth-
ache.” Mrs. Bartlett and the genial and rev.
George are now on their trial for murder. It is
not possible to rake up much sympathy for the
parson, but in mercy to the woman it must be re-
membered that even if guilty, the act was the
consequence of a marriage contract dictated by
the victim, and suitable only for a matrimonial
union of statuary. JudgiDg from the unfortunate
result of this “ Bartlett experiment ” it is not at
all likely that such unions will become popular in
the immediate future.
PHOTOGRAPHER: “AND NOW, MY DEARS, YOU MUSTN'T LAUGH.
Thus a French barrister recently addressed
a jury and conjured up a ghastly bedfellow“No,
genth men, you will not leave these precincts with-
out acquit ing my client. You will not dine
peaceably after beheading a man who is innocent.
His head will weigh in the balance of your con-
science; you will see it bleeding in your dish, like
the bead of St. John the Baptist! Like St. Louis
you will carry it under yourarml Nay, you will
see it on your conjugal pillow, between your own
head and that of Madame votre (Spouse.”
Thus a Wallahallow (N.S.W.) correspon-
dent:—“ Dear Bulletin,—Just after a month’s
travel through the country around the Plains,
out to Coonamble, also west of Dubbo, to Bathurst
on to Sydney, then to Newcastle, thence here. I
have never seen things look so bad, and I am cer-
tain that if one-half of the men that are travelling
about looking for employment were in Sydney
your aristocratic toy-soldlers, the Lancers, would
have a very busy time of it. It’s terrible to wit-
ness such sad sights in such a new country.”
This is how it is reported that a junior in
the N.S.W. Universal Loaf Department got to
windward of a strategic and generally aggravating
senior. This junior had sent in an xpplication for
the statutory three weeks’ leave of absence, to date
say, from ls<; March, when his generous superior
suddenly bethought himself that he had not taken
his own regular leave in 1885. “I must have six
weeks this year,” said he, “and the sooner the
better in case the Civil Service Act is altered.” So
he sent in an application accordingly, to date also
from Ist March. The chief clerk, to whom the
senior was a persona grata, recommended the ap-
plication for six weeks, and the junior's applica-
tion was thereupon declined, although it was the
first sent in. Junior found himself in a fix, as he
girl in the country, so he resolved on a desperate
expedient. He wrote to the chief clerk pointing
out that the senior had been in the habit of arriv-
ing at the office about 20min, late every day, and
by that means he had practically been absent from
duty for a longer time thon the Act allows for
leave of absence. This stvle of argument was too
much even lor the chief clerk, and the youngster
got what he wanted, but when the question of de-
partmental retrenchment comes on it is much
more than probable that the ingenious young
mathematician will find himself forced to hump
his little drum to some region where his power of
stating awkward arithmetical problems will be
in higher estimation.
Says Truth (London): “Nothing can be
more ludicrous than the grovelling sjcopharcy
and the abject adulation which most of the
wealthy snobs of the place (Sydney!) have dis-
played towards Lord and Lady Carington, who
have been pestered almost beyond bearing by
their feverish attentions. The new Governor and
his wife are likely to be great successes from the
social point of view, and in this respect they will
be a decided contrast to Lord Augustus Loftus,
who was sent to Australia only in order that ne
might have an opportunity of saving money to
recoup himself for his outlay when he was Am-
bassador at St. Petersburg.” This would seem to
indicate that Tbuth is well informed as to colonial
affairs. “ Grovelling sycophancy and abject adu-
lation ” just about describe the present situation,
but we think that it is too much to say that Lord
Carington is pestered by this frantic social pros-
tration. He certainly was never so effusively
worshipped in his life before, and it is not pro-
bable that he ever will be again. The majority of
men take kindly to homage even of the most ex-
travagant order, and it is not likely that Lord
had arranged to spend his holiday with his best
Caringtoe, who is known to be gratified when his
presence and actions are welcomed and ap-
preciated, is very careful to notice whether
the genuflexion is indicative of loyal respect,
or of a sycophancy assumed to bring its
exhibitor into humiliating prominence. Re-
ferring to this matter an hysterical Sydney
evening paper howls “you’re another ” in defiant
periods by aocusing “the wealthy snobs of London
and proudest Tory families of England ” of
“gushing over ill-bred illiterate creatures who
could not obtain a footing in Australian society,”
and points the reference by naming Sir Samuel
Wilson as the recipient of such alleged Tory gush.
Wilson doubtless wishes he were, but, alas! it is
not so. That “representative Australian ” stands
not even on the threshold of the world of social
distinction. He has spent money freely in the
Tory cause and for that service the Tories are
cautiously grateful, but, to say that the cash has
been traded for an equivalent in the form of
society favours and fashion worship, is to assert
that Wilson has succeeded where, as a matter of
fact he has miserably failed. He may have ad-
vanced so far as to he regarded as a “wealthy
snob,” but he had acquired that amount of fame
before he ever started from a land in which he
hoped to leave all the reputation but none of the
wealth he had up to that time acquired.
One Hennessy died lately at the Adelaide
Home for Incurables. The unfortunate man had
his misgivicgs as to Moses and the elcquerceof
Dan-we mean, Balaam’s quadruped, so the Free-
thought party claimed the corpse and trundled it
along to the cemetery, where a local apostle of
Freethought gloated for a few minutes in exe-
crable English over the fact that deceased had
then absolutely ceased to exist, that he had paid
his washerwoman close up, and had not gone back
on his freethinking comrades in thss “hour and
harticlo of death,” as he elegantly put it. There
was then a general war-whoop around tbe grave
in favour of everything “free” except drinks, at
which point the orator broke squares with the
“liberal party.” After the obsequies, it leaked
out that poor Hennessy had in bis last days dis-
played a decided thirst for the spirit, as the chap-
lain of the institution put it To meet the
occasion, however, the Freethinkers had pro-
vided him with a bottle of whisky, which he
mopped up shortly before his death. It was
whilst he was languidly draining the last tot
of O.T.G. out of the bottle that he was overheard
by the matron to exclaim, “Oh, how delicious;
God help me!” This was regarded by the Church
party as amounting to a recantation of faith, and
they loudly declared that the corpus exsangue had
been wilfully, maliciously, and of malice afore-
thought appropriated by the disciples of Brad-
laugh, and ought to have been planted in conse-
crated ground. The atheists replied that the first
three words in the sentence applied without doubt
to the liquor, and that, even though the latter did
look “ a bit dicky,” it should not be admitted as
evidence as the man was in liquor at the time.
It is really no wonder that Hennessy’s funeral
should have led to such a disturbance. There
usually is a disturbance when a few people put a
lot of Hennessy out of sight.
The new muzzle and gab alarm and patent
anti-blatherskite consists of a strong wire-muzzle
which is attached to the face of the man who has
too much of the “ Victoria Cross of public life
in other words, too much “ jaw.” This muzzle, by
means of certain machinery, is so connected with
a small bell and two steel spikes at the top of the
head, that when the gab-gifted man on the stump
has uttered a certain number of words the bell
gives a premonitory alarm. Then after a certain
number more words have been spoken, the two
spikes, which are warranted capable of piercing
the thickest skull in the N.S.W. Legislature,
descend on the head, where their pressure in-
creases until the speaker stops or dies. There is
also an attachment, consisting of a torpedo which
explodes at a certain stage in the oration, after
the alarm, and the lancets have worked in vain,
the accompanying diagram will give some idea of
his ingenious and useful contrivance.


fctst Thlfl favourite bract
itlhn 0 , broww®* 1 yRh great care from tne
2 f th e celebrated firm of
’l'l^ercelled*' 11 c 2*> Dublin, and therefore
4 oo a R procured everywhere
fI«Ap E
for the
ic HI*G AUTUMN SEASON.
A ~~
'^(es,, * has been given by ou
London to the growing requiro-
ar - d we shall hive
Fo - isa*,PKciioM
„ e IS & SHAW
h* n ° W °P e niDg (almost daily)
KUat| ve i n
l of
Of»?
tUr Lade,
tie
&frv Ta nR Ncw Gjo3s Tais DIY : ~
iua| l thJ ! 'nl I ' B GLOVES, four and six
i l .t ) 'tH(jr n newest winter shades
‘‘FLORA K O GLOVE
Win. l<,l Le W k ac lured t( r U', a a 1 ot pro-
ton 8 re L lu all colours, lorr and 6ix
5£ h B B^S^?ura WßDE GLOVB ’ in all
!4p5 N d 3HAW ’S PLUSHES and VELVETS,
Sanfl
STRIPED VELVETS
NEW MBKVEILLEUX
~*&ii LITEiT ASSIGN
t>‘", C f®® tGE5 ’ STIUPE ° AN ‘
li iL Y t E! lfiNaq S bI \CK CASHMERES,
ifeA 1 0r *?uro’i D | nd other new black
>^® NTSILKCRAPES VERY BEST
tot 5l! ,r jIFUL AUTUMN COS-
QOn&En . n Prlcos from 255. to 8 guineas
to 08 • NEW PRILLINGS and LACE
. c „
Ssth * 8 ° SIERY - NEW CUFFS and
Kb- IWr? Uhildren ’ 8 Underclothing
3 and Feathers, Millinery
SHAW,
- * Geouge-street.
v ASELiIii7
A
§,f 3 - <l and e n ervinfr Horses’ Hoofs
nro’o t ,„+„ their growth
1 ahir'dna 1 v ativ,, iV, ILB LUUIr
•„K%rw’'Coi!.’ and >*„R >s invaluable— pre-
C s ' ? Q b aa o , si Vo it waterproof.
h m perfect order
"■ 6 , la tho sole material
°ld bv B^! 1 ? tho Austrian and
t au Saddlers and Store-
SO
LE
agents
*«h.
IRONMONGERS,
st feer
*yriney.
Sv F' Iq*
LACE,
of
StM- e, ' Cmiile and
*• fc * a fey
®*- «S BYSNBSS'
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT
'A
Si
©
9
m
i
sga
1
9*
m
m
:->
BASS .’AL.3 A&B
The JBfiST ALB and STOUT in the Market
■OLD BY ALL BTORBKBBPBRB AND WINIS
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
ffIHE
BEMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EABE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY,
tar" THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves,
labour, stationery, and time, writing: mu«fe
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants*
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,,
reporters, and all men of business should use
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO.,
86 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED bt ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1813
Paid-up Capital E300.0W
Reserve Fund 11156,000
DiRICTORS:
The Hon. Bir John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chaim an*
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
george 8. Caird, Esq.
on. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rol'leston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Gbnbral Manager:
I, A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen*
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfera, Gosford, Nyngs n»
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Blade, Esq.
Sir Saul SamueI,K.C.MT.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Ft non
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities It s qualities arc of a very hiyh
order; it possesses a charming hoquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp.”
■ TRAPP & EIAES,
54 Margaret Street, 'Sydney,
Agents for New South Walts,
JS B, 3OY B,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLKREAGH-HT
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.n. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous*, and Female Diseases
Specialty.
livx 130 U.P.O.
1:5-
I. “an";
32;!" _
1' J
y g
REUTER'S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SO A?,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing’ of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
UBTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE 80CIETY.
Established 1872.
Oapifc&l—£100,000 with power to increase to E 1,000,000
jBOKUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
.-*£S> Head . Offices. <ej£3>
First Fh i Society established la tne colony Oil
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders hack
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Folicy-hc ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
rAi/Vaiß CHURCH, Manager
jd-.-ad Ifflce - VIT'T ana KING STREETS.
JL & HBENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmoad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers,
t®” THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALE PRICE.
J. MURPHY S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OP KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tills city.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Pates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
T
jHS AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fgq.,
Chairman, - John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Z Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality) ; also on Merchandise and Hull*.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
& jp
&
&
&
\y
&
s
fir A
r v ry _o
j* v «y <
<t
r - * --
o*
,«?• *°vv
v v X
>Vr / *
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., A fronts.
88. BBIGHT’S FHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Boraedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Bold by •• 11 demists.
Agents-Knuoxi linos.
w > ua m be® VjH a mm • f
DURING his recent visit to Londos, carefully
selected a large ar.d varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don? THCS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BUSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, See., and til
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Ooorge.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
B FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMP AN I
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AX
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., wltjtj
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may bo left for doliverf
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agcnoy to
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables ~
Factory
81 Harbour-streel
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
MBI ICINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs ind Chemicals by
qual lied Chemists in tbe most scientific manner
to ensure the best actioD,
TOE, NOTHING
is more es ential to doctors to make quick
cures, therefore wqt nly employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
NEVUS MIND
tbe temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and ut qualified hands. By skill,
£cioi.C2, and
THE' CASH
lystem, wo are abb to command an txtensivo
patronage ard supply everything of the beet
qu' ltty at the lowest pricer.
T. .(ONES & CO. Dispensing (demists,
53 Makket st , between Pitt and George Streets.
Brarch Ilousos: Crovn-street Tram Terminus,
Sony Hills:; and Suva, Fiji.
EPPS’S
A
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
BALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
iID
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
Scbnrpps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edintm &» Pale Ale.
L!
NJ»
\ ‘3.
v N-xartfi \‘lifﬁktxﬁtﬁV
915;]??‘7'1‘ ring, r i‘Jr
1'} n «w
3313?.“ °
ML l-J
'M‘JPg
€31" m g
z“ ; \
‘IHM’;
St A >
AND
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
AND


THOS. GAUNT
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIC! AH,
■t A BOURKB STREET,
A A MELBOURNE.
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
| neab p i ?st
3 Tfl®
Manufaciurar of Turret Clocks, Prize Gups, Optical and instruments, Ac.
- .. r- rl
Gaunt’s Spacial Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct ana « I
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Liamond Jewellery. , |
PRICE LIBTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
QUINA lAROGHE. 3‘
FOE GENERAL DEBILI‘J‘Y AND NERVOUSM ; ‘ \
FOP. INDIGESTION 0E EXHAUBTIONI
FOR BEVERB AND Loss or APPITI‘I'I. 1
4m. CONVALESCENTB. Damn: I”
u an mm m Chemist...
ASK YOUR GiiOCER FOR
ALTFED
0
J. S. PRY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"An ordinary Cup contains moroof the active propertiei. Of Malt than a pint of the best ala or porter.— Lanobt.
\ Tk
ill
1
•...
DR- O CORNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
sydictie-y-, zrsr.s-w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the brandies:
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
* manent cures in all private cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent ,by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of tbe following effects
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
_ _ treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It i$ self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of’ cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges afie kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address ' DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, *
52 Castlereagb. Street > (geound bloob), Sydney,
BUDGEREE ! BUDGEREE t !
Trade
I- ’> .'
Wt?" J
“ha-ﬁr?”
~ .;-' ‘ '1 ‘7’
in, ' " ‘-
K 1‘§$€’.- ":1
mfg, 1 \‘T” _ I. 8
l - I I?
, .'I:' ’ . H
1’ 3,“, , ‘ .7 , , r7 .‘v“'\,‘.
é: - t,
. .. -'_ ~ ‘ ‘ “'W
> ,q z, 2’ 'Aéi' "IF.
- fi- "’ l' “ 97""
A' ‘t‘LT # . .
‘4‘ _ V 7 \75.
. H D 7 I _.4 :r .
V - ~ ' II! #-
Mart-
ji¥
NO MORN PEVS2. ,
The BUDGEItEE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful *<•-ffm-hilj®J J a ii
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it ii.-sta.utiy
----- Sold at nil eheim BW *
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &o.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, L&war
Robert butcher * 0.0.
(Late William Look)* *
a wr WINS AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE fiTREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
i«f|
I AMHOODa
a
)N
discovered
Hk« of anil!
Preaoriptio:
a simple »*&*-*■ w i
•Ting kuaaawty,
Prescription which CUR*'*',
••Jf-ULddreneed *t<myed «
w
BUX.Ii DCS A LX.
fIKST AWARD, GOLD M3DAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching properties of this wond-renowncd
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
RObertPorter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO..
Sole Agents. "
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTcn ecfORB MOUSTAC2S an:WHISEZ33. »EFon B after
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
1 tviU d'j it cneither bald head or
bare face, fotcea heavy JHous-
tame iu from 2to 4 weeks and never
■ fails, J»i,UOO young wen already "
wear /uZI beards, having used 1 to
3 p*ti. ffo Injury, easily applied, terlain in effect. „
each, 3 for 3*. &i., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation «
Krsnh ltoaglan, ffofo Agent, Box 7.U), O.lSydney ,/ t r .,S. W’
Copyrighted.
j «.•
Copyrighted
Packet
P. EIBBT,
From the late Mr. Jambs Ccbxii,
-CT3ad.©3rta.ls:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in tbe employ of tta® «
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (1C) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Awarded Tbrea
Prize Medals
v» ;
for
wor
tfP
A. B. PY
Importer nni jManufactu* 0
high mr fun® l
ANO
Brass, Iron, and Kichl.e-P late<ll
Wov3 j, Wire, and other **
‘j'fjlV l
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster,
sells Carpets in .Newest Colour
. poet
# t!
Blankets, Quilts, Health RutfS.Jdrat 6 *
Services, Cham bet
Kitchen Requisites. &0 ’ *
The Only |f|
355 SBitS aG3a
i.dj
BETWEtN gtt £flV
Idverjool and Bathur’ s
«5fC
AWARDED THREE J
FOR DURA I3II " 1
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, -
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vis 3 ®’**!
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awaroed the Only 60/0 Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, 3H te ' S^y
