

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
o OLO/V/^
r//
a
NVIX
JETTING!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BEOS., EIGG a CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Nv\' •
o
Co
o
s
IRONMONGERS
o
&
S
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing-Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
: : : _____
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Utmo by Ali, U»®
XCAdlng CMztms.
not how ewrasAP,
RUT ipw <*»<*©!
v\
FLEMING’S
WAGGOHS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Caw, and Inspect
Hardman Bros
&
===*s
»M<uiMr*rr»7n
£
»n»i»Mi.rtin" n'ttii
V
■ca
Nin • i
■:n
HHimtHHHiI.K Ip IIMII! MI ij
HCAB OrfICC & FACT Off Y. /VFWTOWff
BRANCH, CFOffCF S? SYO/VFY.
GOIDC\SYRI/P
A/VO
Tfi£ACL£
RFf/HfRS
m
0
(Sa
S-Z3-
UNIQUE FLATOUR and unsurps. 3
Crispness distingais Wilson’s An
ri«aji “ Exfera Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex St«bbt, Sydney.
mwmg 181 repire from Sytoej
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO CG*43*®B6f®N CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Geode ®f aay description, forwarded free of all
chargas.
SEN® T» AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHI T. MIMES & CO.,
__J» pwar aranr, aUMg. w.g.w.
z
etA'
3a
am
y^
2-5
,^7B
;
rjiHE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
stationery, and time, writing much faster
J &nd matter to less than
one-iiaKt the space occupied by pen writing Beautiful
taken in the usual manner in the letter-press*
sola wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
41*0 Keat-abreet.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, A CO..
(J, A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALGIERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRQXMOAGETCS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AAD MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS' PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIKS. Ac
sdf
BAR, PLATE,'SHEET and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZING ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD; OILS, RAlN'f
BRUSH WARP]; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDERS’
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGINES, T®R
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS FOL> yl
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &C.
Sol® Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT PUU'f!
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement
Bulk Stores • ■ 2
London Office
54 YORK STREET.
■ HAY and ENGINE STREETS. nrJfL
. HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOR
siTDisrEir.
- 85 ORACECHURCH STREET.
w
Ift
wmm
WwMw
•ftsswens
OIXSOM&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
Oi/SON & SONS
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODI*
P»XSON & SONS
SIR ROGER .
Ql X SON A $ ON S rmc«
NAILROD
OIXSON 4 SONS
CHAMPION^
OIXSON & SONS AK&NUWC PUJS os TP*"’
CUT . In Tin* PacKels Bo***-
R.G.RU BY.ORIENTAL
CIGARETTE GOLD liAF.&c^
gs
<h ,\ vV’
cS&J-W&P
V V$ tf
\r
5U
- -a**.'-.rrTTr, , ,r. /I
COOLALTA WIN™
(SILTER MEDAL BORDEAUX
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STUB® 1,
.
* Beneath Pakmg’sh
THE GREAT NORTHERN. HOTEL,
O»ARLOTT»-PLACK AN© <3«0»OB-IWE»BT.
K. HANYEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
©S'
ASSOBTED
WIKIS, SPIRITS, and IILT LIQUORS,
BELIYEI&fiD ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. ease as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker ©r Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... is. pef bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
Best brands Whisky, or Brandy
from 20a. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Berk.
Certificate of merit of the firat-ciasa and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by hia
Excellency the Governor's household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-atreet and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
vc4.ec /-/ce
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
-ARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
EWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
* AT ■
LOWEST COST!
CRAtf £S
an 0
H 0IS T, 7
tA**
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAU
ESTIMATED FOR COMPt-ET®
Sydney:
in, PITT STREET.
Me T^r*
22. KING S™ 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 356.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27 , 1880.
Price., 0d
The Governor's Reply.
CHORUS OF FREE AND INDEPENDENT VOTERS (to Lord Carington, a casual spectator): “HI, THERE! STOP 'IM—CATCH 'IM—UNHARNESS 'IM HELL-HELL RUIN US!"
LORD C.: "I'LL HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH HIM. YOU HARNESSED HIM AND YOU MUST TAKE THE CONSEQUENCES. IF YOU LET HIM ALONE, HELL DIE A
NATURAL DEATH IN TWO YEARS!"
HOSTILE PRESS: "YES, AND IN THE MEANTIME BELL KICK THE CART TO PIECES!


THE BULLETIN.
I’UBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. .. £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. M. HARDINO,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
t inces should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance—which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, wo are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1856.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscription, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1886.
Smith on Australia.
The Mansion House banquet recently held
in London is interesting to Australians
chiefly on account of a man named Smith,
who then took a prominent place among the
prophets. The spirit of warlike bluster
which has long been so conspicuous among
the titled members of the Tory faction is
filtering downwards, and the plebeian mem-
bers of the party —the Joneses, Smiths,
Browns, and Robinsons, whose large ears
and staggering aspirates mark them as guilt-
less of Norman blood—have taken up the
parable, and are more ready even than their
leaders to challenge the whole world in the
name of what they prematurely term the
Federated Empire. According to Mr. W.
11. Smith, who left his bookstall to assume
the charge of the British War Department,
“ the country can rely on assistance from
the colonies to defend the Empire,” and his
words are echoed by the bloodthirsty howl
•of Graham Berry, whose Carib skull rises
like a towering image of stupidity promi-
nent even among the Jingoes who are paid
to misrepresent Australia. But with the
newly titled Victorian Agent-General, and
others of that ilk to urge him on, it may be
that even Smith’s blunder is excusable. Our
own salaried officials talk perpetually of
“ loyalty the very air is full of jubilee
lies about the desire of these colonies to
spend their treasure and have their armed
manhood slaughtered in defence of the
British Crown ; the fountains of the great
deep have been broken up, and men who
are supposed to represent Australian senti-
ment have rained unutterable bosh in cease-
less showers until the idea has taken root
that we Australians arc longing to fight
somebody, no matter whom—the Russian,
Austrian, or Ottoman in Macedonia, the
Frenchman in the fever-stricken New
Hebrides, the Burmese patriot, the Afghan
on -the Indian border, the Egyptian, the
Mongol, or the far-off Bokhariot behind
the Himalayas —any or all of them—for the
glory of the ruling classes of England. It is
this delusion that has taken possession of the
Tory Cabinet, and it is for this reason that
we find Smith among the prophets, and are
asked to accept him as the exponent of
colonial opinion on the most vital question
that any colony has yet had to deal with.
* * *
We would be glad, however, if Smith, of
the War Office, would favour us with his
definition of the word “ loyalty.”. Accord-
ing to all accepted theories it means devo-
tion to the person of the Sovereign, whereas
patriotism signifies devotion to the country,
or rather to the nation at large. Loyalty is
the worship of a visible image ; patriotism
the worship of an ideal ; the first is best
symbolised by the naked, painted, greased,
and bloodstained African, who bows before
the hide of a beast stuffed with straw ; the
second by the sentiment of the Christian
who pays lowly reverence to the invisible
Creator. The one is the religion of weak,
degraded minds who must have their god—
however deformed and hideous it may be-
in actual presence, and who consequently
grovel in the dust before a fellow mortal
whom they first create a sovereign and
then worship because of his elevation ; the
other is a creed that is independent of the
gaudy image of royalty, and which endures
in the desert as well as in the palace.
Loyalty to a British sovereign is a theory by
which 300,000,000 human beings are to sacri-
fice themselves, if need be, for the sake of a
single individual; it is a wager against for-
tune with odds of 300,000,000 to 1 against
ui, and with the certainly that the bet would
not be paid even if w >n. Australians may
be gamblers, but they are not such madmen
as to accept odds like these.
* * *
But, though this blind homage may be
degrading in theory, it is still more so in
practice. Loyalty, as it is understood by
Berry and Bookstall Smith, of the "VVar-
Office—neither of whom are Australian-torn
is not even so elevated as that feeling of
personal devotion which the African pays to
a stuffed hide or a carved stump ; the savage
is true to his creed though the hide and the
stump give him nothing in return for his
worship, while the groveller to royalty bows
to his fetish for the sake of the rewards his
particular image can confer. In Australia
the loyalty of the few is purchased by the
ticketed dog-collar of St. Michael and St.
George, but it i 3 worth while to inquire
what the people of these colonies have re-
ceived to make it worth their while to bow
to the House of Guelph, and waste them-
selves in fighting its battles. And the
answer must be —nothing, absolutely nothing.
Nor is there any reason why we should make
sacrifices for England, apart from its sove-
reign, for what we owe to her can be summed
up in a sentence. A crowd of convicts who
tainted the very air of this now land in the
early days of its history ; a horde of Imperial
hangers-on who live on our country, despis-
ing it all the while, and seek to teach us the
old Imperial traditions of the past ; a share
in the stories of ancient murder which make
up the total of British “glory”; about
£l2o,ooo,oooatanaverage of 4per cent, on the
strength of which a portion of the London finan-
cial Press periodically denounces us as a host
of bankrupt swindlers ; perhaps £120,000,000
more borrowed privately at Hebrew interest,
the annual cost of which drains the very life-
blood of the country ; and a succession of
hen-rearing drivellers and w r orn-out, debili-
tated Tory politicians, who are sent out as
Governors to represent the greatness and
majesty of the British throne. It is on the
strength of this, and this alone, that the
warlike Smith and the party which he re-
presents declare that Australia should prove
ready on every emergency to fight in Bri-
tain’s quarrels. If their political death is
deferred long enough to admit of them ever
making a formal demand for armed assist-
ance from the colonies the answer they will
receive will leave this bloodthirsty tribe
aghast.
* * *
The support which Britain is supposed to
have extended to Australia in the days of
her infancy furnishes her with no claim
whatever for military aid from the eolonies.
The so-called protection has been little more
than a myth at the best, for this whole con-
tinent has not cost the mother country a
single soldier or one solitary drop of blood,
unless indeed we are debited with those lives
which have been lost on our coasts when the
burly ironclads of the Imperial navy have
been pounding at an imaginary foe and the
bursting of their sham artillery lias scattered
death and destruction upon their decks,
or with the- slaughter at the Eureka
Stockade when British troops fought -
not for Australia, but to make a slave of
the Australian digger - man. Nor can
we afford to fight in England’s quarrels
because of the sentimental tie of brother-
hood ; such a policy, if systematically
followed out, would drench the world
in gore. The Anglo-Saxons of Eng-
land were at one time Germans, and at a
still more remote period they probably
roved on the banks of the Euphrates and
among the hills of Asia Minor, but never-
theless they do not feel called upon to
defend Syria’s “ Land of Roses ” against all
comers, or fight on behalf of their brethren
the Germans, or their other brethren the
Danes, in every squabble that may arise.
Neither does Hungary send forth “contin-
gents ” to defend Khiva or Bokhara, though
the fatherland of the Magyar race was some-
where in the Tartar steppes, and no one but
a madman would call on Mexico or Chili to
muster their armies in aid of Spain, yet their
people are Spanish alike in lauguage and de-
scent. The tie which binds Australia to
Britain is of more recent origin, it is
true, than that which connects Mexico
with her motherland, but if that be held
to supply any reason why this whole
continent should waste her energies to prop
up a little island in the distant Atlantic, then
let some Jingo philosopher tell us at what
date the obligation ceases. The claims of
blood and brotherhood cannot be eternal,
else Britain herself is grievously neglecting
her duties, and who is able to lay down a
, sharply defined line to tell us when and
where our responsibility ends ? The Austra-
lian people were not created to be the mer-
cenary soldiers of England—to follow un-
questioningly the banner of a nation which
has fought in everybody’s quarrel and strewed
the whole world with dead. Should Imperial
Federation ever become an actual fact, no
doubt Australian soldiers may fall in these
ignoble foreign wars—perishing one day,
perhaps, in a second Crimean war as Turkey’s
allyi the next as her enemy at another
hideous struggle like that which stained the
waters of Navarino. But Imperial Federa-
tion is advocated, not by the Australian but
by the Englishman in Australia ; and this
alien, whose prejudices are still of the old
world, and whose ignorance of colonial
interests makes him utterly unqualified for
disposing of the destinies of the new, has no
more right to shape the policy of these
colonies in accordance with his own views
than has the French or Polish emigrant, or
the pig-tailed sojourner from Canton.
* * *
England’s difficulty will be Australia’s op-
portunity, and the day of England’s disaster
will be the one on which Australia will cut
the painter and sever all connection with the
Empire. This assertion may seem brutal
and cowardly, but it is true, and in cutting
adrift from the mother country we will only
treat her as she would treat us under like
conditions. Britain’s interest in Australia
is not guided by those considerations of kin-
dred or affection, which she so sedulously im
presses upon us ; it is a fluctuating quantity
varying from 3| to 10 per cent., and the
average is nearer 10 than 3|. If England
ever exerts herself in our defence it will be
for the same financial reason that causes her
to defend Egypt to-day, and as the gratitude
we would owe her for her assistance would be
charged in the bill the prospective
obligation is not sufficient to cement
what are fondly called “ the bonds of
brotherhood,” or to induce us to tie
ourselves forever to a decaying European
monarchy. No doubt the secession of these
colonies would be violently opposed by Eng-
lish-born residents—of whom there are still
many in the country, but when the day of
severance comes the Englishman must either
submit to the wishes of his adopted country
—or else he must go. The educated strug-
gling colonist has long outlived any sym-
pathy with Imperial pomp or Imperial tradi-
tions, and he will not submit to be taught
the virtues of retrogression by strangers, or
to be imbued with English ideas, imparted to
him by Englishmen who have left theirnative
country because the system which they advo-
cate has made it a place that is no longer
good enough for them to live in. When
some flatulent mayor or other in search of
title or notoriety discourses to us of glory,
and Jubilee, and “loyalty,” it is the glory
of England, not that of Australia to which
he alludes, and we decline to believe that
Providence created this country for the ex-
press purpose of making it the satellite of
a twelve-thousand-mile-away island barely
one-twenty-fifth its size. Federated
Australia can defend itself against the world.
What it wants is liberty to shape its own
policy and thus escape the hideous blunders
by which Britain has accumulated a moun-
tain of useless debt; the things it does not
want are a German royal family, a crowd of
bowled-out English politicians, sent here
because their usefulness is over in their own
country ; and a rush of cheap titles by which
those grovellers who are to be found even in
the most democratic communities are bought
for Imperial service and set up as liveried
images for the worship of the nation. And
the great programme of the Australian
democracy will yet be realised. The flatter-
ing lures of Bookstall Smith, of the British
War office, will not postpone the consumma-
tion, and Graham Berry, K.C.M.G., may
raise his Oarib skull in angry protest at
banquets and Ministerial feasts, but it will
be in vain. Even the establishment (an-
nounced last week by cablegram) of a new
order of merit “for which colonists will be
eligible ” cannot delay the fall of Imperialism
in Australia even by a day.
Freetrade—a Panacea or a Poison?
“ Freetrade medicine as before,” is the advice
of Messrs. Wise, Reid, Pulsford, and Co., as
they view the very sick body politic of New South
Wales. The patient has been reduced very low,
but these oracles say the fault is not in the doctor-
ing, and Mr. Dibbs says that he and Nurse
Jennings are not to blame. And all these autho-
rities aver that no change of treatment is re-
quired. The Freetraders are sure that the stimu-
lant of Protection would cause utter prostration ;
the Ministers are equally certain that a change in
the nursing staff would be disastrous. Some time
ago it was confidently asserted that the malady,
being of a transient nature, would wear itself out,
and the patient arise in his might, and
with powers fully restored, but no such change
has yet taken place. The former prophecy having
been proved false, the Freetrade prophets, like all
of their class, from Mother Shipton to Professor
Wiggins, effect a renewal by postponing the date
from the time first advertised. Recovery, it is
said, will come in a few months now; leave the
patient alone, keep on stoking him with the same
drugs, retain the services of the political Sairey
Gamps now in office, and convalescence will ensue
at a period which —will be postponed again as ne-
cessity requires.
* * *
Let us eschew metaphor and come to hard facts.
In December, 1882, there was in the New South
Wales Treasury a surplus of £2,300,000 ; now
there is a deficit of £2,300,000 ; thus of revenue
in four years £1,600,000 has been spent in excess
of the amounts received. Again, on the former
date the Public Debt amounted in round numbers
to £18,700,000 ; now it is as nearly as can be as-
certained £40,000,000, an increase of £21,300,000 :
add this sum to the excess of expenditure above-
mentioned and it will be found that £25,000,000,
produced neither by taxation of the people nor by
any form of revenue has been expended by the
State. During the past four years, therefore, the
community has been livmg on borrowed money at
the rate of £539,583 per month —£124,519 per
week —£17,788 per day ! Look at the figures in
another light. The yearly shortage since 1882 has
been on the average £6,475,000, equal to £6 per
head of the present population. Then assuming
that one person in five is an able-bodied male,
capable of producing wealth, it follows that the
borrowed money vpent was at the rate of £3O per
annum per Lead of these latter. It is true that a
large proportion of this sum was sent out of the
colony to pay for railway-iron and other goods
imported, but this foreign expenditure is asserted
by the Freetraders to be a profitable investment,
because so much wealth is thereby obtained at aless
cost than it could be produced here, and the margin
represents, as we are constantly told, so much a
clear gain to the community, therefore the fun
amount must be accounted as subsidy to the local
wealth-producing classes.
* H I (V.* *
Such a tremendous stimulus should have made
the whole country hum with enterprise, and
should have increased the producing power of
each worker by at least £4 per annum, for that is
the sum which he will now yearly be required, to
pay as interest on his share of the national over-
draft obtained during these four years. That the
reverse has been the case is sufficiently notorious
Population has increased, certainly, but the in'
crease of exports has not been anything like p ro
rata ; and instead of increased production there is
increased dependence on Victoria for breadstuff's
on Germany for furniture, and on England for other
goods. In place of a greater demand for labour
there is an insatiable desire for employment, which
private capitalists cannot give. The Government
Soup Kitchen in King-street laughs a scornful reply
to the assumption of prosperity of the labouring
classes. Over 3000 men have temporarily purled
with their dignity and sought State charity since the
28th October last: 000 or more have accepted an eel<‘
mosynar y wage at the Relief Works, but yet the man'
her of applicants does not seem to diminish in spite
of the vigilance of the police in weeding out
“loafers” from the ranks of the distressed
Speaking generally, it is true that all trades are
depressed, and all industries languishing. The
Gospel, according to Pulsford, teaches that
large imports of foreign goods enable home pro-
ducers to manufacture more largely such things
as are most cheaply made in the colony : here wo
have the premise, but the result has been very
much otherwise, despite the extravagant subsidy
of loan money. Nor is the revenue elastic. The
profusion of foreign capital has not tended to
make the railways profitable—in fact, the returns
from this department show a more woeful gap bo
tween receipts and expenditure every year, in
spite of the fact that the loan funds are constantly
taken to make good the depreciation of rolling
stock. Trade is bad, worse than it has ever been
save in times of panic, and as credit shortens the
price of money grows greater and its supply less
adequate to the demands of the enterprising and
industrious of the community. Without ventur-
ing to load the policy of Freetrade with all the re-
sponsibility of the present distress, it is sufficient
to point out that the conditions of the past few
years have been such as Freetraders desire. Our
ports have been open to all nations save for the
narrow blockade of a revenue tariff; foreigners
have supplied consumers to an enormous extent,
with goods capable of manufacture by local
labour; the fixed capital of the State represented
by railways has been largely augmented by foreign
loans and foreign goods—all these things have,
according to the creed of Cobden, been adding to
the prosperity of the colony, yet destitution and
depression everywhere prevail. Surely this trial
of the policy is sufficient to convert all whose
reputation or business profits do not depend upon
the maintenance of Freetrade.
* * *
Two extraneous causes, drought and bad land
laws, are frequently alleged as reasons for the
depression which has fallen with peculiar acute-
ness upon New South Wales. But their value as
a pretext vanishes in face of the fact that pas-
toral products during the period under review
have been exported to a larger extent and value than
during any similar term, and that the number of
sheep and cattle in the colony at the erid of 1885
was greater than in 1882. And although wool
fell heavily in 1885 the loss on this account is in-
sufficient to account for aught but a small portion
of the financial trouble with which New South
Wales is and has been afflicted.
* * *
A review of the past four years proves the fact
that the Free-trade faith has been impotent for
the salvation of the colony, even under such
favourable circumstances as then prevailed. Nor
does there seem any prospect of better results in
the immediate future. Then money was cheap
and plentiful ; now it must be dear and
scarce. The deposits of Government money
formerly held by t lie banks have been exhausted,
and the State must in future have an overdrawn
account; loan expenditure must be decreased, for
the English creditor is now watching colonial
fi lances more closely than heretofore ; taxes must
be increased, for loan investments do not return
within £1,000,000 of the interest annually required;
and the expenditure of Consolidated Revenue
must also be reduced to bring it within the neces-
sary limits. All these things point to an intensifi-
cation of existing troubles, and only one means of
relief is available. Open ports have driven pro-
ducers from those trades which cannot be profit-
ably worked in the face of foreign competition,
and huge Government expenditure has provided
employment for the same men or some of them in
work which is not reproductive. Protection now
must aid in establishing these men in wealth-P r 0
ducing labour in the field or the factory, and thus
win back the prosperity which a wasteful Govern-
ment and ruinous Freetrade policy have driven
forth from the community.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fowler on Australia.
Tub great want of the genuine Cockney when
comes to Australia is the want of something oltl
and cracked to grovel to,and Sir Robert FoaVLE k ;
ex-Lord IVlayor of London, seems to feel thi*
keenly. In his recent speech at Melbourne thi»
“distinguished” turtle-gobbler condescended to
patronise the colonists, and told them that he
hoped soon to see them represented in the Brill*
Parliament and possessed of that inestimable
blessing—a hereditary peerage—but to his n n '
bounded amazement the kindly wish fell rathe
flat. The audience did not rise like one gushes
lunatic and cheer him to the echo ; neither di<
they mistake Sir Robert himself for a peer, » D
immediately send up to Providence to order
large consignment as “per sample.” Somehow
other the real Australian—though not, of course,
that miserable hermaphrodite the Australia
toady—has never been able to see why a m a
should be a hereditary legislator any more tha
he should be a hereditary horse-thief. ,
one man does the State a real or
service and is treated a marquis,
logic then demands that his descendant s_ sb oUi
also be marquises to the end of time-
naturally follows, according to democratic reasc >
ing, that when another man goes in for dog-ste
ing, and murders hi? mother, and robs a churc '
and ends his career on the gallows, his P 3st . erl '
should be hanged as fast as they grow up ; u
wards go down from father to son then puu l
ments should do so likewise. The Chinese i°
ago grasped this great principle, and ' vv^ell j go
traitor is sliced to pieces his whole family are .tgy
beheaded, and his servants, down to the foot
and the washer-up of dishes, are bambooed on ®
on for a month or so. In England, however, 0 ,
one half of the doctrine has been assimilated,


consequently the Upper House is full of slope-
headed, brainless alleged aristocrats, who live on
1 he questionable achievements of their long-pastan-
restors. Australia has made one step towards
owning a peerage, but after a survey of those
who make up the great order of St. Drinkall
and St. Gorge the colonists have no desire to hand
down that crowd to posterity. They have attained
their elevation in various ways—by brains,
hv stupidity, by grovel, and by going home and
looking at great men through the bottom of an up-
turned bottle, but if their honours are made here-
ditary and their descendants sit down for a few
generations to admire their own greatness, the
brains will evaporate, as they invariably do under
such treatment, and only the stupidity and the
bottle will remain. Experience has shown that
greatness is not hereditary ; it has also shown t hat
arrogance, asinine folly, greed, and a multitude of
other qualities down to wife-kicking and a passion
for eloping with actresses very often are ; and as
no one can guarantee the characters of those yet
unborn the Australian people decline to de-
stroy the liberties of posterity by establishing a
race of hereditary rulers whose vile yoke coming
generations may struggle vainly to throw oft.
♦
Mortgaged Churches.
Of the Anglican churches in the diocese of Sydney
56 are encumbered with debts amounting to
£62 1)00, and several others unspecified are pos-
sessed of shortages which bring the total up to
about £70,000. Sydney is the longest-established
and wealthiest diocese in Australia ; many of its
churche3 built in the era of convictism are now
showing decay in their very walls ; and, as a rule,
the richest and most fashionable of the community
profess the Anglican faith. N et in spite of these
tilings church property i 3 in pawn to the extent of
£7O 000. The fact is a comprehensive condemna-
tion of the Anglican system and its members.
That the latter- professing to regard the goods of
this world as mere dross to be esteemed as no-
thing in comparison with the guerdons of a
glorious future—should refuse to pay up in order
to get, the House of Prayer out of the pawnshop
is evidence enough of the manner in which they
divide their reverence between God and Sathan.
If from the time the church was started in
N S.W. all professing Anglicans had decided to
devote as much money to the work of church
building as they spent on jewellery, whisky, bil-
liards, or bonnets, it is safe to say that in place ot
a deficit on the present buildings there would be a
colossal surplus, although the number of churches
were doubled. Go to St. Andrew s Cathedral
any Sunday afternoon and you will see as
much jewellery and twice as much value m
dress adorning the members of the congregation
as would pay off in one act the debt that now en-
cumbers that building. Bazaars, special collec-
tions, and frantic appeals by the authorities have
not a vailed to take the Cathedral out of pawn in
past years, and probably it will remain under a
mortgage to Mammon for long to come. The
esteem of these alleged Christians for their
Creator is equal to about one per cent, of their
veneration for bijouterie ; they assess their
Saviour at one per cent, on spring fashions, t his
is horribly mean. Setting aside all spiritual con-
siderations, the return is outrageously inadequate
to the benefits conferred. The attendants at the
Cathedral get a splendid opportunity of showing
off their best attire ; they get excellent vocal and
instrumental music; and they earn reputation
and a definite status in the ranks of respectability,
yet all these benefits received are deemed to he
requited by a sum nearly equal to a ’bus-fare or to
about one-twentieth of what they would pay to
enter the unsanctified theatre. T et with all their
meanness church-goers are not alone blameable
What was once areligion has come to be a mere creed;
priests and people alike have lost the enthusiasm
of devotees ; the servants of the Most High God
refuse to suffer aught for His sake—they must
have good incomes, handsome houses, and an
honoured position in “society”: they worship
wealth, venerate power, and hunger for the praise
of men—forgetful of the verse which says : Woe
unto you when all men shall speak well of you .
for so did their fathers to the false prophets, and
thus it is that the churches are suffered to remain
in the pawn-shops while rich men cluster round
the mortgaged sanctuary, I rom such a sect the
poor expect nothing, and receive but little more ;
all than can be raked in goes either to the parsons,
their houses, or their churches, and the multitude
sacrifice to Sathan even upon the altars of God;
their hearts, like their churches, are securely held
by the Mammon of Iniquity.
The Pastoral Land Sharks Again.
In answer to The Bulletin assertion that the
grant of compensation for improvements made by
crown lessees, would enable squatters to obtain
the freehold of their runs, the Commercial, Pas-
toral, and Agricultural Association of riew South
Wales point out that they, with modesty pecu-
liar to squatters and members of Parliament, pro-
pose that the rate of compensation shall be
limited to “ so much per acre or per sheep, riven
so the amount granted may be such as to involve
in greater or less degree the evils we anticipate.
But while urging this, these agrarian reformers
render their sincerity open to question by advoca-
ting the abolition of the minimum rent of runs.
If a limit is necessary, as the Association admit it to
be, in the matter of improvement valuation, it is
also necessary in fixing the value of the grass-
right ; vet these reformers work for its abolition
in the one case, and for its imposition in the
other. They show their cards too soon. It
compensation were granted with the proposed
maximum it would then he time enough to agitate
for the abolition of restriction as to the amount of
rent payable. But having shown their desire to
abolish the minimum rent, the opinion will pre-
vail that the maximum figure for compensation is
proposed just to gild the pill, and that if compen-
sation be obtained there will he immediate agita-
tion for the abolition of limit as to its amount, it
must be remembered in this connection that the
necessity for appointing by law a mimmumof rent
reveals a disgraceful page in the history of i • ■ •
land settlement, When there was no rental limit,
corrupt squatters and appraisers conspiied o-
gether to rob the State of all but a wretched
fraction of its due; the official often enough
travelled in company with a servant or companion
whose business it was to sign as an mdependen
Witness any statement the appraiser and squatter
might draft; bribes passed as a regular thing m
many districts— bribps openly paid by cheque
whose amount was the subject of previous hag-
gling ; and that there might be some limit tp ting
system of Treasury-robbing, it was at length de-
creed that a minimum should be fixed. Now it is
that this limit should he abolished ; it is not
asserted that all appraisers have now become
honourable, (ff that all squatters have deserted
the corrupt wjjys Rt former times—the reverse is
practically admitted qy tjig proposal for a maxi-
pxiim compensation —and the matter or
peptal is no>v decided by the lopal Boards they
cannot be considered as an efficient safeguaiii.
4-pphmsprs ai'e still required, therefore it is still
possible for them to work a profitable swindle as
of yore. The C. P. and A. Association includes
many zealous and disinterested men, and professes
to look with an equal eye upon all occupants of
rural lands, but for all that we fail to notice in
their very plausible prospectus that any effort is
to be made to abolish the mirimum price which
selectors have to pay for their holdings. This
latter reform, as much desired by the selector as
the abolition of minimum rent is coveted by the
crown lessee, has probably been overlooked, and
may possibly be included in an amended pros-
pectus.
♦
The Reprieve of the “ Brutal Ministry.”
Lord CaHtngton has, beyond a doubt, acted
wisely in refusing the dissolution asked for by the
New South Wales Free trade and “ Escaped Nun ”
party, but he has acted very unwisely in attempt-
ing to give a reason for his decision. His position
is certainly an awkward one ; if it is sale to use
metaphor in speaking of men whose only figure of
speech is “ You’re a liar —come outside!” he
might bo said to be between the Devil and the
deep sea. Finding himself called upon
by an eloquent deputation to act as
umpire to this discredited and disorganised crowd,
his Excellency virtually replied that if the colony
chose to abuse its liberties by returning a horde of
venal demagogues, whose only recommendation
was their ability in high-pressure cursing, it must
take the consequences of its own folly. Hut while
refusing to dissolve Parliament he failed ap-
parently to fully realise the fact that a Governor’s
power to dismiss an Assembly in which the
Ministry has a commanding majority, is virtually
as dead as Pomfey and the legions that followed
him at Pharsalia, and that the nation, as
soon as it recovered from its temporary deli-
rium, would revolt at such an infringement
of its privileges. A Governor’s duty is simply to
do nothing ; if his rashness or ambition leads him
to do anything he generally has cause to regret
the circumstance. His occupation is the humble
one of signing documents, and his place could
therefore be filled by a rubber-stamp of cheap
material, were it not that the stamp would require
to be chained to the wall toprevent it being stolen,
and even then its safety would be precarious to
the last degree. Lord Carington’s predecessor,
at all events, fully realized his position in this re-
spect, and finding no scope for his energies in his
capacity as Governor he buried his intellect in
hens. His pent-up forcc3 were let loose among
his fowls, and when his longing to summarily dis-
miss a Parliament or a Ministry became irrepres-
sible he would give free rein to hi 3 feelings in
chasing a Cochin-China off a new-laid egg. No
doubt there is something absurd in the idea that
an official should receive a salary of £IO,OOO per
annum, and should cost at least £IO,OOO more in-
directly, and yet have to take refuge from ennui
in pursuits like these ; but a Governor is paid in
this lavish scale expressly that he may do noth-
ing, and it would be insupportable and subversive
of the constitution that he should seek to break
this compact. In every act he must be governed
by the advice of his ministers, and it is one of our
glorious privileges as British subjects that a man
should be sent from the other end of the world
that he may be told what to do, and when he has
done it that he may hang round and draw his
salary until he is told what to do next.
+
The Judgments of N.S.W. Judges.
Criminal Law in New South Wales, as adminis-
tered by the different judges, is just about as
choice a compound as the world has ever seen. A
few months ago Judge Docker was lamenting his
inability to decree anythirg less than ten years’
hard labour as the penal equivalent for embezzle-
ment, and Berner received a sentence of ten
year - accordingly ; while a butcher’s collector and
a baker’s man were treated with similar severity
for appropriating amounts of forty shillings or
so under circumstances that might certainly
be taken to mitigate the crimes. “A judge is a
mere machine,” explained Docker, and he him-
self became a crusher accordingly. But Judge
Windeyer interprets the code with much more
freedom, Last week two prisoners awaited sen-
tence from him. Their complicity in the perpetra
tion of frauds extending over some years, and
involving some £9OOO or £IO,OOO had been clearly
proved. Forbes seems to have worked the
swindle, David Bradford to have pocketed the
proceeds. It was not urged that Forbes had a
partnership of profits with his partner in crime ;
he seems rather to have been the instrument by
means of which Bradford effected his designs.
To the ordinary intellect the offence of the elder
prisoner would seem to have been the greater, but
Judge Winde\ t er has not an ordinary intellect
and decided otherwise, Forbes the cat’s-paw being
punished with the sentence of seven years’ hard
labour; Bradford, into whose pockets £9OOO of
the plunder had passed, getting off with
four years’ imprisonment. It is pleaded
on Bradford’s behalf that he was an ignor-
antman ;heknew enough,however,to continue this
swindle and pouch the proceeds. Perhaps hi-alleged
generosity in giving a former alderman a present
of iron railings may have been allowed to count in
his favour ; if not, the only explanation for the
strange difference in these two sentences is to be
found in the apparent fact that in New South
Wales the term of imprisonment is in inverse
ratio to the amount of coin acquired by the
prisoner. Holt annexed several thousands and
was sentenced to four years ; a butcher s collectoi
stole £2 or so and got ten years. Bradford de-
frauded the Sydney Corporation of £9OOO and got
four years; Forces helped in a robbery which, so
far as one knows, profited him nothing, and got
seven years. There is a moral in this which all
who contemplate embezzlement should observe.
And the moral is that he who steals at all should
steal much—the greater the amount the less is he
a criminal and the lighter will be his punishment.
♦
The publication of accounts in connection with
the Fisheries. Health, and Inventions Exhibition
at South Kensington should open the eyes of the
colonies as to the probable cost of the projected
Jubilee Institute. For the last few years all
England and a few odd tens of thousands of
foreigners have been planking down their “bobs”
for admission to these fashionable shows. Where
the money went to nobody but Sir Philip Cuk-
liffe Owen and his crew will eA r er know. The
balance-sheets were only submitted under pres-
sure of a strong newspaper agitation. Now, at
this late hour of the day, the public are informed
that the Fisheries and Healtheries left a small
surplus, which was swallowed up by the deficit
on the Inventions. Such is the result of “manage-
ment” under Royal patronage. Nobody can
doubt that if the same affairs, under equally
successful conditions, had been the speculation of
a private individual, tear private individual
would have pocketed £50,000 profit. What he
would have made out of the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition goodness only knows. Sir PniLiP
Owen and Co. expect a surplus. And if they
expect a SVjrpluts front the Exhibition, we can ex-
pect a yearly increasing loss from the Jubilee
Institute, which will possess no charm of novelty.
True, Sir Philip Owen —realising that the game
was up —has declined the management of the
Institute, but what of that ? Bertie is to be the
almighty head, and to have the appointing of
officials. One blood-sucking sycophant is the
same as another. There will be the same squan-
dering of cash in fat billets and gorgeous banquets.
And to support this semi-royal job the colonies
are asked to subscribe a yearly sum, with the
certain knowledge that there will be a regularly
recurring deficit to make good, t nder I lie pro-
posed arrangement we shall not even have the
right to criticise the management of our show.
The best thing to do is to do without it.
Under the able tuition of Pastor Jeeferis the
good young men of his Hock are attaining a power
in the detection of vice which is nothing short of
marvellous. A few days ago some of these youth-
ful St. Antiionys trotted out the Stage for the
purpose of dilating on its evil influences. Not
content with blaspheming the theatres and all
connected with them, from the s'ar to the sand-
wich-man, and the critic to the call-boy, one
zealous apostle, whose name webegtudge to fame
and the libel judges, indulged in a tirade of abuse
against the “Mikado,” which he denounced as
“ indelicate and immoral.” We w r ould like to see
this very delicate and moral young man, for
If this mor.-.l young mm sees indelicate things
Which nobody else can see,
What a very remarkably delicate man
This moral young man must he 1
Wo would like to soo him, but not for long. We
are anxious to know whether be is anything like
that delicate maiden who wrote to a man accus-
tomed to bathe at a place within sight of her
house, asking him to go farther away. The man
put about a mile between himself and the lady
next morning. She again wrote asking him to go
still farther away, for “ with the aid of a remark-
ably powerful telescope she could still see him
quite plainly.” This is the way with this Joseph.
With the aid of his own ingenuity and a lively
imagination he can evolve immoral suggestions
from the “ Mikado.” This shows how much more
clever, moral, and delicate he is than other people.
But for all that we don’t think that his denuncia-
tion should excite anything more than contempt.
The mind that can find anything immoral in the
“Mikado,” is capable of detecting
Filth in the falling snow, vice in the mountain breeze,
Smut in the wild-bird's song, and muck in everything.
♦
The great Imperial military principle is really
coming to the front in Australia. They now talk
in Melbourne of the Victorian “ Army,” and the
men in uniform who lean against a public-house
are the Victorian “soldiers.” There are about
3000 of them on pay-day, and exactly 1276 when a
perspiring review has to he gone through under a
hot sun ; what the total would be if the Russians
arrived is doubtful, but a competent authority
Axes it at one man and a hoy, and unhappily his-
tory shows that a man and a boy have never yet
worked really well together at a great national
crisis. Another huge advance in Imperialism is
shown by the fact that this rotten little squad, on
the strength of which Berry is going it bald- |
headed in London, costs about as much as do j
70,000 men in Canada, and is invariably licked by
the larrikins when the men take off their holts and
sail in for a beery scrimmage. But, after all, the
Australian who would sell himself for 2s a day to
stand about like an ochred effigy of slaughter
must be a born loafer, and it is perhaps as well he
should go into the “Army ” as into the gaol or the
soup-kitchen.
The scandal caused throughout Australia by
politicians whose relatives long to pluck the oof-
fruit which dangles on the State tree beyond the
reach of ordinary mortals is not a circumstance
beside the libels evoked by the patronage by
judges of those in whom they have more than an
average interest. As natural imbecility and ac-
quired indolence are no bar in the Civil Service
to the man who has a relative in tlm House, so at
the Australian Bar youthful _ incompetency and
forensic ignorance do not prejudicially affect the
happy young barrister who can claim an obliging
relative or connection on the Bench. What young
Noodle at the Bar does not know, old Boodle on
the Bench will supply to the case, and the nice
little family arrangement is in some cases played
most shamelessly. Young Noodle can hardly be
blamed ; by Boodle’s assistance he is able to
give his clients —whose lawyers fancy they do a
smart thing in retaining him when Boodle is
trying the case-good worth for their money, so
what need' he care though all his professional
brothers stand aghast at the prostitution of Jus-
tice ? And yet though these things are notorious
in some of the Australian colonies,no one out of the
various Houses dares to speak out on the subject,
and no one in the House —where slander for the
public benefit or not is privileged—seems to know
or care a rap about the conduct of Judges whethei
these latter dignitaries choose to stalk through
the land as licensed blackguards of a senile type
or convert the Bench into an instrument for raking
in the dollars for the benefit of a favoured advo-
cate who has nothing hut this favour to secure
him reputation and riches.
MISREAD
[BY J. FARRELL.]
This was what I said, with a hot face lifted
rp 0 kig—new friends we were, he and I
When my life on the merciless rocks lay rifted,
And the tongue that answered Curse God
and die !”
At my ear persuaded. These words, fierce
spoken
Were mine, when my voice was a cry unbiest,
Ere the evil trance had its torpor broken,
And I found full faith and exceeding rest.
“ I will never marry, or love, or cherish
A woman, howevor so fair she be ;
Let their light loves live for a day and perish.
When the sunlight fails —what is that to me .
What to me are the vows of a love undying,
That a clouded moment will quite eclipse ;
What the wiles of smiles, and responsive sigh-
ing, _
And the poisoned honey of clinging bps .
“ Let the small hearts throb for each latest lover
And break, and re-knit, and re-break again ,
I have been as a moth in the days gone over,
As a moth I may writhe in the deadly pain
Of the days to be ; but the old time lusting
To dash through the middle of flames that
blast
Is dead. As a dagger, in blood left rusting
In my heart I have hidden away the past.
“ You would see my wound—nay, you would, you
ask it ,
With pitying eyes, though your lips are mute,
As a dreadful thing in an ebon casket
I have kept it covered. Why should I bruit
Upon careless ears words of shame and loathing,
Stripping woman hare of what fits her well;
Rive and rend the graces she wears as clothing,
And show her as foul and as false as Hell ?
“ But I think you may be my friend for ever
And 1 hold you better than most, and so
I will tell you that which I thought had never
Been told to man. Seven years ago
When my feet were light in the shining regions
Of youth, with.her heart held so close to mine
That it scarce could beat, I sworn high alle-
giance
To Helen Rae. All the fervid wine
“ Of Hie now great joy in our veins made revel,
And our life was Life, not a way to death,
And the sunset blazed on the rivers level,
And the warm wind kissed all the brown
lands’ breadth
Till the red sun died in a red strange splendour
Of fire-fringed clouds, sleeping fold on fold,
And the world and the water grow dim and
tender
In the light of a marvellous moon of gold!
1 Thereafter ? Some twilights made drunk with
kisses,
'Then the slow words, tortured through teeth
closc-set —
Words that warned as truly as serpent-hisses
Of the death behind—* We must part. Forget
What lias boon between us. You are my
brother
Henceforth, no more.’ ‘ One has worldly
wealth,
One is poor,’ I read. Could I crush and smother
The thought, and leave her, and sob by
stealth I
‘ No —1 flung her oil" with a hundred cul'ses,
Crying out, ‘Thus, Liar, I set you free —
I Wed this bloodless wreck, wed his padded
purses;
You have made the choice What is it to me?’
And I strode away while the false breast panted
And the false cheek whitened with rising
fear,
With a strong sharp pang in my life implanted
Under leaden clouds, hung in skies austere.
* I will scorn the brand, howe’er keenly bladed,
That a woman’s hand can strike through and
through.
I will set my feet from the meadows faded,
Far away may be flowers, and skies of blue,
Where is Lethe found in a time made bitter
With Falsehood’s gall? What will best allay
All this angry pain ? Seeking gold’s rich glitter
I will drug remembrance of Helen Rae.’
And I knelt with the others before their idol
In the knee-worn front of the world-wide
shrine
Where the cold hearts hie to the harlot-bridal,
And I wooed and won her and made her mine.
And the wild flushed hours of the Mammon
madness,
As an opiate dropped on the olden pain,
Till I recognised colours and tones of gladness
In the world around me, and loved again.
‘ And I wedded the woman I loved, and decked
her
With the envied things that much gold com*
mands
To find barren lips with no chrism of nectar,
And a loveless touching of listless hands,
Till two garish years of a life, unreal
With mock observances, waxed and waned,
.And I mourned, dry-eyed, o’er a slainldeal,
When for all my purchase,but this remained*-
“ This —in clear cold letters, precise and finished
‘ What was yours I loved, never loving you,
But the cause and effect have alike diminished,
And the end has come, and I say adieu,
As the spring that has fed my pretence is frozen
That has frozen also. To-night 1 fly
From your sight for ever, with ono long
chosen
To hold your place. That is all. Good-bye ! ’
‘ That is nearly all. At the end 1 found her,
But too late to shield her, too late to save
Where he cast her out, with wan vice around
her,
Very near the mouth of a shameful grave ;
And she lies therein, and my gold i 3 buried
Therein, and my faith is there buried too —
You have chidden me, Hubert, and cried ‘ Get
I married,’
I who know no woman is chaste or true.
‘ ‘ Kneel to God for this ! ’—Hubert’s voice was
shaking
With a stress of passion—* Blind fool, you lie!
Helen Rae is pure, and her heart is breaking
For a dotard, who, passing a diamond by,
Grasped a worthless pebble ! What expiation
Is there left to you ? On your knees and
pray !
You whose madness brought the pale desolation
To my beautiful cousin, pale Helen Rae.
‘ ‘ You shall kneel to her in a near to-morrow,
With the tears of shame in your eyes, and
plead
For your absolution. What years of sorrow,
Had you eyes to sec with or ears to heed,
Had been spared you both ? For an iron father
Who had kept strange oaths, made an oath,
and said:
‘ Girl, this thriftless boy rhall not mate you !
Rather
Than this with my hand I will stretch him
dead! ’
“ And she feared for you, when the poor lips
faltered,
What your jealous haste madly misconstrued,
And her father died with that oath unaltered
On his evil tongue, and the weakling sued
I For her hand in vain—the appointed suitor
Whom you cursed with her when your heart
was black —-
But she said to them all : ‘I will never tutor
My heart to love till my love comes back.’
Then, from over-seas, I, who only knew her
A babe, came, seeking the old-world ties,
‘ Surely never a bosom than this was truer ’
I thought, * and a light in the patient eyes
Would be full reward if my hand unravelled
What is tangled here—be it wrong or right,
Through whatever places his feet have travelled
I will find their tracks : So we meet to-
night ! ”
h, the large fruition ! Beloved ! Forgiven !
But I hold to this—though my years be long,
To their utmost hour I will stand unshriven
By my utmost penance for that great wrong—
’Though warm kisses long from her cheeks have
painted
All the ashen white that my crime left there,
’Though no longer a sacrifice sorrow-sainted,
What will expiate the waste years of care ?


The Referee
In these days of drawn matches, and sug
gestions as to the best means of enabling the bal
to fight a better battle with the bat, a decisive
two-days’ match comes rather as a refresher
ucky for the State, too, was it the match was
completed in so short a period, for four days o:
such monotony would, without a doubt, have
added a few thousands of inmates to the lunatic
asylums. Even the band, which did duty on
Friday, was conspiouous by its absence on the
second day,and the growlers in the enclosure
thinking they might have had a little more for
their three and sixpence, but being “in the swim ’
we, of course, are aware that bands for the public
who own the ground and pay a shilling for admit
tance, are a big extravagance in the face of the
building of bans and billiard-tables for the use of
people who are supposed to run the ground in the
interests of cricket. The daily press will, of
course, now have their little crow over the
colonials’ victory, hut it cannot he said they gave
the winning team much encouragement during
the three days preceding the match. Last week
we said if Percy M‘Donnell made a good stanc
the Colonials should about win, which bit of “jam’
must have struck the eleven as an oasis of conso
lation in the desert of abuse which they received
from other sources. Shrewsbury, as it afterwards
turned out, made a mistake in taking the wickets
as the rain cleared off, and a rather strong sun
baked the turf, and the lads Ferris and Turner
put the Britishers to the right-about for the smal
total of 74 inns. M‘Donnell made the desired stanc
and A. Bannerman having been disposed of for 7
Moses joined M'Donnell and the pair remainec
together until the latter was howled by Barnes
for 32. Mather made 14, and then the tailing-off
commenced, the innings closing for 111, of which
Moses made 32 and carried his bat out. The two
innings were gone through on Friday, and on
Saturday Turner and Ferris again proved too
much for the visitors, who were all disposed of for
98 runs, Read topping the list with 24. M'Donnel
started to slog before he was “ set ” and was very
soon sent off for a big 0, being caught by Gunn off
Lohmann. Bannermann and Moses then went in
for stonewalling, and Bannerman remained in
until nearly 6 o’clock, when the light became de
fective and he was dismissed for 26. M‘Donnell
decided to play on, and it was pretty well dark
when Turner made the winning hit, the New
South Welshmen winning with six wickets to
spare. The uninteresting nature of the game
cannot be better guaged than from the fact that
in the second innings of the colonials 373 halls
were delivered for the scoring of 62 runs.
* * *
The race for so-called cruisers in con-
nection with the P.A.Y.C., came off on Saturday
and resulted in a win for Captain Gascoigne’s im
portation, the Carina. The Captain’s boat has
sported racing colours this season, and cannot by
the greatest stretch of the definition be included
in the club’s list of cruisers. The Sydney Amateui
Sailing Club managed to bring off their first race
of the seasoD, a hurry-scurry for which no less
than 18 boats entered. The winner turned up in
the speedy Triton, the old-time 24-feet crack, the
Carlotta, being runner-up.
* * *
Lawrence Foley has taken a trip to Bris-
bane, and in his absence “Professor” Jackson
rules the roast at the White Horse Boxing Hall
On Saturday Jack Molloy and Steve O'Donnell’s
four rounds were of the tapping order, as was not
Gorman and Burgess’ fight billed “ to a finish,” but
which was declared a draw after some half-dozen
rounds, during which the men “biffed” each
other to their hearts’ content. Nelson, who suf-
fered rather severely at the hands of Molloy on the
previous Saturday, did as he liked with Oliver
and the likely-looking Jack Fuller had an amusing
four rounds with the funny man of the business,
Deerfoot. Some disappointment was felt when it
was announced that Meadows was too unwell to
meet Mulholland,and the elder Fuller was put up in
his place, with the result of a very moderate show.
The wind-up was between “ Professor ” Jackson
and the big ’un Kiley, hut Jackson, as a matter of
course, merely played with his pupil and oppo-
nent.
* * *
Under the heading of “ The Secret of the
Gaudaur Match,” the E. News gives forth that
Beach, having had his outriggers altered before
the match, it was not till at high pressure with
Gaudaur that he discovered his stretcher was too
long—it not having been altered to suit the out-
riggers, and it was in his endeavours to fix his
stretcher that Gaudaur obtained the lead. Surely
the champion must have been “ poking borak ” at
“Our London Correspondent,” as anyone knowing
the fittings of a modern wager-boat must be aware
of the show Beach, or any other man, would have
of altering his stretcher, even on a pleasure-trip.
If the statement is true that Beach has declared
he has rowed his la it race for the championship,
it looks very much as if he was at his best in the
Gaudaur match,and like a sensible fellow does not
intend to risk such a close thing again, more es-
pecially as Gaudaur is thG younger man, and will
be coming on when the Champion is going off.
* * *
Jem Mace’s big ’un, Herbert Slade, the
half-breed Maori, is still on the “knockout” in
the States, and as usual the knock out was on the
wrong side when he recently met Duncan C.
M‘Donald to a finish at Salt Lake, Utah. Things
were pretty equal until the 9th round when
M’Donald, who is another big ’un, gave Slade a
terrific blow in the neck, which ended the battle.
* * *
Sculler Gaudaur returned to New York on
October 4th. “ Beach is a great oarsman,”
he is reported to have said, “but I think
had I been training for another fortnight Beach
would not have beaten me.” So it goes. Gaudaur
wanted longer training, Beach wanted a shorter
stretcher,
* # *
Frank Herald, who was stated to have
made such a good show recently with John L.
Sullivan, was on Oct. 7 defeated by Joe Lannon at
Boston. The men fought privately in Boston for
a £lOO purse. The fighting was pretty equal
until the 6th round, which is described as terrific.
For a minute Herald rained terrible blows on
Lannan’sjaw and throat, when he commenced
to tired and Lannon, surprising everyone with the
remark, “Why, you can’t hit a little!” struck
Herald a scorcher under the left ear, and on the
receipt of another terrible half-swing and upper-
cut on the left jaw, Herald spun round with both
arms in the air. Another right-hander straight
from the shoulder on the jaw completed the busi-
ness, and it w?s several minutes before Herald
could again stand. Lannan, like John L. Sullivan,
was born in Boston, and it is expected ho will be
the next man pitted against the champion.
* * ,
A Sydney man holding a good position in
a loading bank won Mr. J. H. Giles’ double-event
bet of £5OOO to £5 on the Caulfield Cup and Mel-
bourne Cup. An interview with the manager fol-
lowed the receipt of the coin, and a promise to
“ sin no more,” was resignedly given by the lucky
transgressor.
* * *
A Melbourne tea man won £1(500 from
the books, over the late Caulfield Cup race meet-
ing, and duly received his dollars. A couple of
weeks later on, the same punter made the painful
discovery that he was a loser over the Melbourne
Cup meeting to the extent of £2OO. Thereupon
he offered five-eighths cash down, and asks for
time for payment of the remaining three-eighths.
It would be interesting to know what amount the
yiddisher wouldhave handled had Kaisow Congou
lost at Caulfield.
* *
*
The Wagga Wagga race meeting held last
week was only a partial success, the primary
cause of its not realising the expectations of the
officials in command being its extension over three
days instead of two ; also a noticeable meagre-
ness of competitors in the principal events. The
latter may be accounted for from the fact that the
groat majority of horses, worthy the name, have
taken part in most of the preceding colonial
meetings, and were therefore becoming stale and
required rest before entering upon the Christmas
campaign. Not only at Wagga was this notice-
able, but the miserably small fields in some of the
minor handicaps at Flemington gave evidence
of the severity of the work done since
the present season opened. Add to these
drawbacks the fact that prizes running into four
figures each will be competed for at both Rand-
wick and Flemington during December and
January and the explanation is apparent. The
hero of the occasion at Wagga (always excepting
the flies and mosquitoes) was the beautifully-bred
colt Invermay, by The Drummer out of Waratah,
and who as a yearling was sold for the ridiculous
sum of 55 guineas. It is greatly to be regretted
that the colt’s owner was not satisfied with win-
ding the Cup on the first day, and the Derby
on the second, without saddling him up three
more times on the last-named day to court defeat.
Invermay is engaged in the V.R.C. St. Leger
Stakes to be run on Saturday, February 26, 1886.
Also in the A. J.C. St. Leger, but his name unfor-
tunately does not appear in the list of entries for
the Champion Race. The racing on the whole
was many removes from first-class, but everybody
present was pleased to see Mr. Oxenham, of Syd-
ney, score a couple of wins with Toronto.
* * *
Even the South Australian gospel-whale
must have a little amusement now and then, and
when he makes up his mind for a regular spree the
old collection-plate instinct makes him resolve to
have it with somebody else’s property if possible.
A few days ago there was a Hibernian picnic at
Morphettville, and the shovel-hat of the R.C.
Dean was beaming on the scene with a harvest-
moon countenance, a broad smile, and a fearful
brogue below it. His reverence had come in the
ghost of a vehicle, drawn by the shadow of a
weary old sausage, and when a hack race came on
it occurred to three sportive priests that they
might as well enter the wreck of the great gun’s
nag, after the fashion of the deacon in the well
known story of “ the one-horse shay.” Unhappily,
at weight-for-age, the antique quadruped wou’d
have required a jockey weighing at least a ton,
and he pursued his spavined way only to come in
half a mile behind everything. But the three
priests had to scatter, for the Dean’s coachman,
when he saw the holy steed struggling round the
course, vowed he would “ murder the scoundrels
on the shpot,” and the Dean, it is said, is now ap-
plying to Rome for a papal bull to curse those who
laid hands on his antediluvian horse.
* * *
Mr. W. Brown, well known as a clever
cyclist in the London district, seems to have
saved himself up for a real soft thing in Australia.
With 230 yards’ start he won the Melbourne B.C.
three miles’ race like an artist, and was rewarded
for his patience with trophies valued at £2OO.
Con. Dwyer started from scratch, but the public
went away with a shrewd suspicion that if the
Australian one-mile champion had stood at the 230
yards’ mark the Londoner would have beaten him.
There were 28 contestants for this tempting prize,
and 27 of them were done Brown.
* * *
That flying filly, Hortense, is likely to
become a naturalised Victorian. Mr. C. L.
Macdonald, the owner, is thinking of cutting holy
South Australia and transfering his racing estab-
lishment to Flemington. What with one “ sport ”
and another taking up his bed and walking, it
looks as though S.A. will soon be left to the
parsons and defaulting bank-officials.
* * *
Cree, the jockey, has gone aloft, butchered
to make an Australian holiday. Steeplechasing,
as practised in this country, is apparently little
else than butchery, and it is popular chiefly be-
oause there is always a chance of sudden death to
somebody. A writer in the Melbourne Argus
justly points out that in the countries where it
originated it is exclusively a winter sport, and
when carried on amid the blinding dust of an
Australian summer day it is as near an approach
to murder as can well be imagined. But when
the same writer suggests that this so-called sport
should be suppressed by joint action on the part of
the ladies of Australia he is rather wide of the
mark ; it was the ladies who turned down their
thumbs in the old Roman amphitheatre, and they
have never quite got over that tendency to this
day.
* * *
It is proposed that Beach should be met
by a procession of 30 steamers on his return.
Somebody will be drowned.
* * *
Frank Hewitt, the runner, is convalescent.
* * *
“ Wimbledon,” writing in the Evening
News, declares shat the shooting on the Padding-
ton Rifle Range is superior to that at Wimbledon,
So it is; and Jennings is superior to Gladstone, I
and Want can knock Churchill into a cocked hat, '
and Parkes can wipe out Chamberlain and Gosclien
and Salisbury in one act, N.S.W. for ever !
* * *
Malone, though defeated, asserts that he
s'iJl hold the championship, and wants to run
Clarke or any other man for £5OO.
* * *
For the first time since the formation of
the Glebe Rowing Club, the annual regatta, fixed
for December, has fallen through in consequence
of lack of entries. The Glebe used to be the best
managed club regatta of the season. -
* * *
In the cricket match, All England v. Aus-
tralia, last Saturday, Moses played on gallantly
and carefully in the waning evening light.
Where was Moses when the light went out ?”
* * *
In a pigeon-match at 30 yards’ rise last
week, between Messrs. H. E. Lord and H. M.
Woodhouse, the former gentleman shot 90 out of
100 birds, his opponent scoring 80 out of 100. In
some miss out ” sweeps which followed, Mr.
Lord, at 30yds. rise, accounted for 21 birds more
without a miss, thus making during the day the
score of 111 out of 121 fired at.
Sunday-school Superintendent: “Now,
children, tell me what heathens are.” Small
Boy : “ Heathens is folks what don’t fight over
religion.”
Alas!
Through the dead dark I hoar a cry
Cleave like a giant’s groan,
And break against the brazen sky,
And fall back like a stone.
It is man crying in his need—
The gods, with eyes of glass
And hearts of iron, take no heed—
Alas! alas! alas !
Though in some secret far-off star
Ye dwell, yet have ye not
Some sign, O, gods, to show we are
Not utterly forgot ?
This earth of ours is waxing old,
Is the World’s winter near ?
The very sun, like love, grows cold
From sullen year to year.
Your hard sky shields you well. Be glad !
No player may pierce it through;
Our eyes grow weary of its mad
Monotony of blue.
With wild and impotent despair
We shake our prison bars—
They freeze us with their icy stare,
Your cynical, cold stars.
Will there be any time when strife
Shall cease and be no more,
Or, has the wild grey sea of Life
No green and silent shore ?
Must we forever hear the din,
The endless grind and grind
Of whirling wheels of thought within
The weary mills of mind ?
Feast and forget! The cup we raise
With heads held shamefast-wise,
Like damned souls who dare not gase
Into each others’ eyes.
For on our ears there seems to strike
At the feast’s highest head,
A sound of dreadful laughter, like
The laughter of the dead.
VICTOR J. DALEY
Where Orion is King.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are we attaining fulfilment of promises, pro-
phecies, uttered when work was begun,
Under the red star and glittering white star of
skies where Orion is king ?
Have we heaped measure on measure of know-
ledge, of uprightness ? Heart hare we cul-
tured with tongue ?
Do we find manhood grown larger and fairer,
thoughts fresher and freer, souls nearer the
light,
Under the red star and glittering white star of
skies where Orion is king ?
Do we find braveness of spirit more widely ex-
panded and swifter response to the right ?
Decades of centuries, filled with fierce'strivings,
made man as a ravenous beast in a den.
Under the skie3 of cold old lands where weak-
ness was prey to the merciless strong.
Have we made better of better conditions? made
gardens of dons, and turned beasts into
men ?
Cries of the hungry filled day [with wild terrors,
and echoes rang on through the vales ef the
night,
Under the skies of cold old lands where weak-
ness was prey to the merciless strong ;
Ghosts of mad purposes, murderous mutinies,
glared through the darkness and slunk
through the light.
Hope as a vision was haggard and weary when-
ever it looked on the ghastly sad ways,
Under the skies of cold old lands where weak-
ness was prey to the merciless strong.
What could he done with such sorrow trans-
cendent ? What brain could remodel ?
What heart could upraise ?
Surges of sea sang, and chorus of birds cried,
and winds whispered welcome, and golden
glades gleamed,
Under the red star and glittering white star of
skies where Orion is king,
When the first bearers of civilisation stared spell-
bound around them, saw visions, and
dreamed.
Yet with a century what has there come of it ?
Keep we not still the old violent way,
Under the red star and glittering white star of
skies where Orion is king ?
Wear we not talons and teeth ? Rend and tear we
not ? Make we not night of the prophesied
day ?
E. LOWE.
Sydney, September 1.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal— " Queen Elizib.th " n ie
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy .. ..
Academ y of Music—Harry Rickards “On Guard”
Victoria Theatre (Maitland) Lynch Family Rel’l- ” ’
ringers
“Queen Elizabeth” at Sydney Theatre
Royal is likely to give gratifactory results to its
promoters. The brilliant pageantry which its
scenes involve, the strangeness of its incident, and
the character study in the name part alone are
sufficient to ensure its success. As the Queen,
Signora Majeroni leaves little to be desired, a
trifle more energy in action being all that the most
exacting critic could desire. Elizabeth in her
hands is a compound of cunning, dissimulation,
capricious cruelty, and o’ermastering vanity. Tho
latter quality was very finely shown ; in the
Signora’s personation the vanity was of the all-too
familiar feminine brand, but of exceeding strength
and odourousness ; it was vanity of the species
shown, for instance, by persons who insist upon
sitting near the vice-regal box in the circle, and
then make themselves ungracefully conspicuous by
leaning in attitudes, always ungainly and
usually grotesque over the barrier the while they
talk to the polite but bored “Carry” and his
perhaps more bored or loss patient aides. The
vices of the monarch never for an instant evoked
any other sentiment than that of pity ; nothing of
admiration is secured by “Good Queen Bess;”
her faults stick out all over her like gold lace over
the Sunday rig of a colonial colonel. And such
very feminine faults and frailties too ; one never
forgets that although every inch a queen Eliza-
beth is every ounce a woman with only about the
average amount of frailties peculiar to her sex.
All women more or less are built that way.
[N.B.—The misogynist of our staff is doing this
notice. ] Miss Blanch Lewis makes a clever Lady
Sara Howard, and a beautiful. Lady Howard, it
will be remembered, does not find that married
life is all honey, and on occasion doubtless serves
it up pretty warm for hubby. As he is bald, a
partiality for the ballet of the day is the most
probable cause of their disagreement.
* *
That Signor Majeroni starts heavily
handicapped upon his wrestle with the
part of Essex goes without saying, but what
nature has denied him in enunciation is
much more than compensated by his histrionic
power. The deficiencies of his voice are unnoticed
in the fervour of his delivery—his passion-like
other people’s charity, covereth a multitude tf
sins, or at least would if there was such a multi-
tude to be covered. The Lord Burleigh of Mr. B.
N. .Tones was worth watching all the time ; he has
not much business except to stand around and
ask Elizabeth a conundrum about the succession.
The Queen gives it up every time, but Burleigh
never does ; while she is on her death-bed he
hurls the old chestnut at her, and she finds the
answer at last, and says “ James of Scotland,”
who, in defiance of all accredited records is
asiembled at her bedside when she passes in her
checks. This James, although well taken by Mr.
Inman, is the most unsatisfactory character in tlie
crowd. The original was a mean-spirited, empty-
headed, and cowardly cur, but Giacommetti
makes him show as quite a nice and chivalrous
young man —the alteration having probably been
made with a view of turning Mr. Inman’s pos-
session of these goed qualities to natural effect.
Mr. Stirling Duff, whose personation of Sir Francis
Bacon was a trifle weak, does not manage to keep
his appearance in harmony with the process of his
years unless we are to suppose that Sir Francis
discovered the use of hair-dye. Sir Davison was
carefully and skilfully taken by Mr. J. Musgrave,
who desires us to notice that he is not related to
the Governor of that name.
* * *
In one respect the realism of the drama
is not sufficiently observed. Between the second
and third acts many years are supposed to elapse,
but, as a matter of fact, only half-an-hour or so
intervenes between the fall of the curtain and its
subsequent ascension. The management will pos-
sibly take this hint and make the intervals several
months longer on future occasions.
## # #
“Much Ado About Nothing” was pro-
duced with great success at Sydney Opera House
on Saturday night, and is still drawing good
houses. Things are slightly mixed in this comedy,
but as usual Shakespeare troubled himself very
little about localities, and when geography stood
in bis way he seized it by the throat and rushing
it oyer a beer table knocked its vexatious head
against the wall. Consequently Arragon, Padua,
Florence, and Mersina are all run together in ad-
mirable confusion, and the scene of the play is laid
in the shadowy land of nowhere in particular. Mr.
W. J. Holloway, of course, takes the part of that
much-sassed individual, Benedick, and in defiance
of all ideas regarding the dark-haired sons of
Spain and Italy represents him as a cocky, red-
beaded personage with a carrot hanging from his
festive underjaw. He carries his head, too, at a
perpetual angle of 15 degrees to his spine, and
makes love to Beatrice in a voice that suggest* a
rat-tail file dipped in vitriol. He is at his worst
when endeavouring to woo Leonato’s charming
niece, ar d when he is at his worst Mr. H' lioway
can be very bad ; and he appears at his best when
challenging the mangy Claudio, though even then
be seems somehow in his wasp &h anger, to sug-
gest an infuriated cat out “on the scratch.” Brit
:he part of Benedick is a difficult one to play, and
Mr. Holloway brings out one feature at all events
—his unfailing pluck and gaiety—to considerable
advantage. All through he is as gritty as a pork-
chop in a gravel pit, and there is no absolute


necessity in his case, as in Dogberry’s, for writing
him down an ass. Mr. Norman plays Claudio
under considerable disadvantages. He has no
excuse for humping round the stiffened jackass
which played so prominent a part in “ Pygmalion
and Galatea,” and he is lonely without the jackass
—-woefully lonely. Consequently if his Claudio is
an object not good enough to be bucked off an ass
into an ash-heap, it is not his fault. Mr. Richard
Stewart makes an elegant-looking character out
of Don Pedro, and expresses eloquent sorrow with
his eyes when the death of Hero is reported,
whereas Claudio expresses his emotion with his
jaws and looks as if he were devouring a bad
tomato.
* * *
Leonato is represented by Mr. Hodson
and is dignified though a little stiff; and Mr.
Charles Holloway is a really good Dogberry and is
nightly “ wrote down an ass.” Having thus dis-
posed of this choice assortment we may come to
Miss deny 11s, who is, as usual, the life and soul
of the drama. The part of Beatrice fits her
as well as that of Rosalind, and her biting
wit is accentuated by every glance and tone
until even tbc triple bra-s of the. lurid-hoadec
Benedick may well be pierced, though the lattei
gentleman seems almost as impervious as Dibbs
or an old hair trunk. But, in the fourth act
Beatrice’s sarcasm changes into exquisite tender
ness, and then again into magnificent fury as hei
eye falls on the catamount grin of Claudio in the
corner. Miss Deorwyn makes a decided success
of Hero and suffers very lit'le from comparison
with Beatrice. The scenery is good, and as
the cathedral-scene, according to the bill, is
‘ treated with a reverential regard for its require-
ments,” even the parson-like youth who sat be-
hind us kindly lent his approval to the whole per-
formance. He remarked, indeed, to a companion
that “the heathen in his blindness bows down to
wood and stone,” but the quotation did not seem
to be meant as a reproach, and was probably
shoved in because he could not get rid of the
hymn-book even w T hen out on the loose.
«V» -V- 4S;
wv* “Tv 'A' Tv*
“King Lear” was W. E. Sheridan’s open-
ing piece at Sydney Gaiety on Satu day night. As
the scene of this sublime tragedy is pitched some-
where far back in the dim 1500 years ago, we sup-
pose that Mr. Sheridan’s intention is to play up
gradually to the present time He will ] robably
put on one or two more of these pieces which re-
quire that the hero should stalk around in a bed-
tick dressing-gown, and come by easy stages to
this present era of dudes, municipal swindles, and
Brickhill's Baby. In some respects ‘ King Lear ”
was an unfortunate piece to start with ; it is,
perhaps, the least popular of Shakespeare’s plays,
and is lacking in novelty of character as well
as incident. Mad kings are now too common to
excite even passing notice —Europe lately has had
a surfeit of them. There was Louis of Bavaria
who was about as mad as they make ’em ; the
young King of Spain whose present lunacy only
inclines him to get the horrors when his nurse ap-
proaches ; and Al—we mean all" the rest of them.
If Mr. Sheridan really wanted to trot out a novelty
he should have exhibited a king without any
manias at all —not even a mania for testimonials
and Divorce Court proceedings.
* * *
It is hard for a Bulletin man bo write
nice notices. Before he starts he is sworn on the
Blue Book to write the whole truth and nothing
but the truth, and with the weight of that oath
pressing on our conscience we are bound to say
that Mr. Sheridan’s performance was not kinglear
than anything we have ever before seen. He was
most successful where the text permitted him to
exhibit lunacy, and least so when royal dignity
was demanded. It is not that his acting is lacking
in power, but rather that it is deficient in those
subtle alternations of tone and action which are
necessary to sublimity. He is always on dramatic
stilts ; his sentences are all emphasis ; his manner
always intense ; the curtain of his emotion never
falls, and just as an audience would tire
of a play which gave thvm no interval
for drinks, so they weary of a presentment which
is always on the invoke for their superlative sym-
pathy, That it does so appeal and appeal strongly
may be freely conceded, but the demand conies
too often, as it did once in the far long ago, when
it came to us on a collection-plate. The latter ex-
perience had its Iccale in a church at Sutton
Forest., N.S.W., where they locked the door and
sent round the collection-plate five times. We
gave generously of all we had to give—trouser-
buttons—and with such effect that we dared not
venture out of that church till dusk, for the police
are very particular up there.
* * *
Miss Davenport plays well up to her prin-
cipal, but it is with grief verging on the hysterical
that we sorrowfully confess that, although she
brought perfection (herself —our delicate compli-
ment) on to the stage, she did not bring her dual
personation to absolute perfection. Miss Daven-
port is emotional and capable of attaining some
of the highest peaks in the field of her art, but she
loveth too much the impassioned tone, the mea-
sured—by long measure—enunciation, and the
gestures of quite too-too-ness. Despite the 18oz.
to the pound character of her emotion as Cordelia,
her performance as the Jester was jester little bit
the pleasanter of the two. Of the rest of the com-
pany it boots not here to speak. From Gloster
down to the page they seem to have worshipped
Mr. Sheridan’s art, and imitated him with but
Poor results. The shadow of an intensity that is
sometimes wearisome sqems to hang over the
crowd to such as extent as to make one wish that
someone would work off a circus wheeze or do
something to break the -ipell. The mounting is sim-
Ply “ regardless,” and many of the sets as pretty as
°ne of the tobacco ads. abhorred of Pastor
Jefferis, or even p-ettier. But the helmets of
be military are worth a lot of notice. We have
never seen anything like them since we last went
* o sea and observed something similar screwed on
t° each berth for the convenience of those who
throw up all engagements andother things in their
Passage over the deep and dark-blue ocean.
.V. AA AA. X
W W Tv* *A*
Ever since the production of “Faust,”
the dramas at Sydney Royal Standard seem to
nave been deteriorating, until at last we have
come down to the “Star of the South,” and we
really couldn’t get down much lower. There are
three corpses in this piece, and a great slush of
gore with a head on it, and a girl in boy’s clothes,
a nd an-eighth ol a brick which tries to pass for a
Precious stone, and a coal-scuttle floating on the
raging ocean with two men on it who tell lies to
tne last and go down saying It is a raft; but all
these accessories have been thrown in even more
Promiskuss-like ” than usual, and it becomes
difficult at times to tell which is the girl and
Which is the brick. The “Star of the South ” is
a diamond owned by Mr. Dampier and two vil-
amous looking crocodiles whose acquaintance we
make in South Africa, where they all hit a nigger
n the wind. A young German intrudes on the
mene; he indulges in a dance and wears a gaping
as Peot, but though his intellect aeems t® have
been chawed up by an alligator and he explains
blankly that he emigrated on account of “dose
beelsh, you know,” his wits are all there, and
when three men go off with a goose-step into the
forest to commit a murder, he puts on an idiotic
grin and goes after them. In the blood-stained
scramble that ensues, the girl in boy’s clothes dis-
tinguishes herself. She grabs a flower-pot from a
dying man and flies with her prey while the
lunatic German gapes in the coal-hole and a red-
headed man wobbles outside, and this gallant
scoot with the crockery brings down the house.
* * *
There is a procession through the forest.
A man weighing 2 cwt. has run five miles to look
into a hole in a tree, where the dying flower-pot
man had told him he would find a diamond or a
brick or a pint of beer or something. Finding only
a vacant hole he climbs the tree, and presently a
black-haired liar with a knife, chased by a red-
haired horse-thief with a revolver, burst across
the landscape; they also glare for a moment into
the hole in the tree, and plunge again into ob-
scurity. Then comes the girl in boy’s clothes, who
has been flying with the flower-pot,; she drop 3 a
diamond into the hole, that being the regular way
of depositing valuables in South Africa, and a dark-
ness like that of 10,000 black cats swallows
her up as she rushes on her way. Next, an idiotic
cackle announces the German who has come out
of the coal-hole ; he bounds across the stnge carry-
ing the jaw-bone of an ass, and when he is gone
a solemn man comes down a tree, stands in the
middle of the stage and gives a whoop, and then
embezzling the diamond he gracefully slopes. Half
an hour afterwards he is killed through falling off
a log, and a new scene opens, when we And
an individual with a patch in his pants
looking through the window of a public-
house. Another man staods behind him looking
at the patch, and the girl in boy s clothes stands
behind the other man, but none of them are sup-
posed to know for a time that anybody else is
there. Then a change passes over the spirit of
the dream and we have a murderer lurking behind
a wood-pile, the German lunatic and his best girl
disappearing in the distance, a tall thief standing
at the door of the pub, a man sleeping under
chloroform inside, and the girl in boy’s clothes
round the corner. The latter makes a sudden
rush and seems to fizz as the tears through the
atmosphere, and the murderer after hanging on to
the trigger of his weapon as if he were dragging
a hen off a fresh egg by the tail, manages to shoot
the wrong man.
* * *
The drama ends with a fight upon a coal-
scuttle which is tossing in a heavy sea and Mr.
Dampier comes ashore amid loud applause. He
deserves it, too. A man who can make the “Star
of the South” go with any success ought to be
madeaK.C.MP.
whereas the man
who wrote it
should be created
an M.U.L E. — if,
indeed, he is not
one already. MBs
Dampier looked
exceedingly well
a 3 the girl in boy s
clothes; Missßus
sell as Lena Brcck
is better imagined
than described ;
and her parent
(Mr. Baker) can't
be imagined, and
had better not le
described for fear
of hurting his feel-
ings. Messrs.
Boothman, Stone-
ham, Holloway
and Lc.s on (with
song and jawbone
of ass) make the
villainous part cf
the procession
1 brough the for-
est, and a more
villainous proces-
sion was never
seen, and three or
four other per-
sons who were
in the drama deserve decent burial.
*AA. AA. JA
W TV* W
“The Mikado” was produced on Friday
at Sydney Royal for Miss Nellie Stewart’s fare-
well benefit, and a mighty crowd rolled up for the
occasion All Australia seemed to have stampeded
into the premises, from Lord Carington, whose
beaming gubernatorial smile shone out conspi-
cuously, down to the bullock-puncher who gains
his humble income by chasing the adult heifer
through the great walking realm of beef. Every-
body, too, was enthusiastic ; the Governor and
the heifer-pursuer applauded with equal zest, and
even the ever-popular “Mikado” never reared
his Japanese head under such inspiriting circum-
stances before. Nellie’s little speech of thanks-
giving WuS greeted with great applause, and when
she announced that the rumour of her intention
to permanently abandon Australia was incorrect
—that she was born in Sydney, and would ere
long return to that city on the beautiful but evil-
smelling harbour, there was a roar. The per-
formance was exceptionally good, Miss Stewart,
as Yum-Yum, and Miss Barnett, as that towering
wreck the one-toothed Katisha, being especially
well received ; the bang of the orchestra rose like
tehe song of the turtle in the spring-time of joy,
and even the ticket-taker is said to have got
excited, but we doubt this. We never saw a
ticket-taker excited yet..
JA JA AA. AA.
‘TV* *7v* '7V' 'TV'
Mr. Rickards has got rather tired of stand-
ing “On Guard” at Sydney Academy, and after
this week the plug will be taken out of the Balm of
Gilead cask; in other words, Mr. Rickards pro-
mises to clear out, and we trust the rest of the
show will follow their presiding elder. If that
gentleman had only moved a glacier on top of
Garnet Walch some time ago—say before he wrote
“ Spoons,” or “ Brick-a-Bat,” or (shat other hyena
produciion “ On Guard or if he had restricted
Garnet to writing the dialogue for a deaf and
dumb man who didn’t turn up —we could have
wished him better fortune. Garnet is rather
too much weight to carry. We may mention
here, apropos of nothing in particular, that we
once saw a horse harnessed to a dead alligator
which he was expected to move from its too pro-
minent position on a river-bank in Queensland,
and the horse did not seem to make much progress.
A dead alligator is a heavy handicap.
*AA AA A/,
•7V' "7T "TV
Somehow or other our notice of Miss
Minnie Palmer’s first appearance at Melbourne
Bijou went wrong. Perhaps it was posted in a
coal order box, or down a grating. Perhaps it
landed in Sydney all right, and the hungry post-
man—guessing that the letter contained something
jammy—ate it. But let us to business. “ My
Sweetheart” is a three-act melodramatic, light
comedy, farcical variety show, oontaining Minnie
Palmer, a male hero who is a humble disciple of
“Fritz ” Emmett, a funny old woman, a wild ad-
venturess, a minstrel corner-man, artfully dis-
guised as a negro servant, a masher, a broken-
down “ sport,” a child forming subject-matter for
a song, and a most distressing doctor. The Fritz,
nigger, masher, and “sport,” are distinctly music-
hall characters, and the doctor ought to be sent to
the boiling-down establishment. In assuming to
be a live man he has mistaken his vocation. There
is a fair amount of talent divided among the
others, and they do their duty in those spheres of
life in which it has pleased the author to locate
them. After remarking that “My Sweetheart ”
might be turned into a circus or a pantomime with-
out impairing it as a work of art, we feel much
better. On second thoughts we consider that this
dramatic feast should be bossed by a chairman,
with a little hammer, and advertised as a music-
hall entertainment. Then each member of the
company could do a turn and depart. Pheugh !
but its warm. Miss Minnie Palmer is Tina, an
artless, short-skirted maiden, presumed to be
of marriageable age, but looking about 12
next June. We have it on the authority
of the wild adventuress that Tina is “rus-
tic,” but she is not quite so rustic as a fairy
queen at the Mayor’s fancy dress ball. Her
stockings are poems, her eyes are stars, her hair
is the colour of the Welcome Nugget, and her
tout ensemble is just delicious. She is a bright
impossibility standing out in bold relief against a
background of impossibilities less pronounced.
The rustic Tina sings, and wo don't pause to con-
sider that her voice is not very powerful.
Although she is of German extraction and talks
good American, wo are too dazed to notice that she
occasionally warbles in French. Tina dances, and
lo ! the st ago is instantly darkened that moonrays
may fall athwart her white muslin skirts. The
bewildered spectator accepts this phenomenon as
a matter of course. Tina frolics, makes faces,
and often adopts a very unboarding-school sort of
accent —but no suspicion of vulgarity enters into
our muddled calculations. The advertisements state
that Miss Minnie Palmer “ grows upon one.” We
believe it. She is already engrafted upon our
very soul, and our soul is still in doubt as to
whether Miss Palmer is a unique artiste or merely
a fascinating song-and-danee lady doing business
under unique conditions. Melbourne, as a whole,
is striving to grapple with this great question and
failing miserably. Sydney’s trouble has yet to
coine. “My Sweetheart ” continues to draw full
houses at the Bijou, and up to now the expatriated
minstrel corner-man gets the most genuine laughs.
.V.
TV 'A' TV* ‘TV*
Captain Ulick John Rupert de Burgh,
late lessee of the Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne,
has filed a shovel showing debts £l5lO, and assets
£l6l. The assets
consist
of stage property,
tweed suits, and
underclothing.
The only secured
creditor is Mr. H.
Ben Bolt Her-
mann—a couple
of “ ponies, ”
money lent. The
other creditors
are unsecured —
very unsecured.
By the way, Mrs.
Digby Willough-
by was going to
bring an action
against Mrs. de
Burgh (Mis 3 Julia
Sy dneyjfor breach
of contract. It is
satisfactory to
know that there
will now be no
need for that ac-
tion. These the-
atrical squabbles
are so distressing.
Oh, and again, by
the way, Captain
deßurgh dropped
£l5O in projecting
the Sydney.
Sporting Times.
With memories of the Melbourne Cup fresh in
our mind we should say that it is the usual thing
to lose money in sporting times. Which is an
excellent but exceedingly harrowing jest.
AA. AA. AA AA.
w w w *7r
The triumvirate believe they are about to
play a trump-card in Miss Carrie Swain. Miss
Carrie is a gorgeous galaxy of attractions, who is
to out-Minnie Minnie Palmer in her own line, and
set all the male Swains amoaning and agroaning
with red-hot love.
*# # *
Dr. Lynn has wisely shifted his conjuring
tricks to the Melbourne Athenaeum and put him-
self in the travelled hands of R. S. Smythe. ,
Things are now commencing to hum. His Excel-
lency the Governor helped the show along by
according his gracious patronage and sending his
own beloved son on to the platform to assist in
the hanky. There was a wild Republican hope
that the doctor would put the Governor in his
magical chair and make him “ vanish.” They’d
none of ’em be missed, you know.
W W -A*
Miss Sophie Eyre was once interviewed by
a Frisco reporter, who asked her how old she was.
She gave him the usual reply—“ A woman is
never older than she looks.” When the critique
appeared, it praised her acting, but said “it was
a pity she looked forty.”
JA. .AA. AA AZ-
'/V* ‘7V* •7Y* 'A*
“ Lord Lonsdale,” says a N.Y. paper,
“ looks more like a gpod-natured butcher than he
does like a peer of the realm. He carries out the
vaulting and stupendous bluff of being business
manager for Miss Violet Cameron with imperturb-
able solemnity. In personal appearance Mi«s
Cameron is far from being the beauty that every-
body looked for. There are a dozen women on
American comic-opera stage more pleasing to the
eye than she. She is square-shouldered, has a
striking figure, a magnificent bust, is heavily built,
and her manner is direct.”
*AA AA. AA.
Tv* *7v* 'Tv*
That funny, flexible little lib-pounder, the
New Zealand Midget, is lifting his crested head
at the Melbourne Waxworks. On enquiry we
learn that the Midget finds his new companions
more chummy than the Sydney figures. The
Kelly gang have taken him in hand and he aspires
to be a light-weight bushranger. Looking at this
marvellous little creature it is hard to believe that
he can be beaten at his own game. Yet we re-
member earrying on a flirtation in London with
Lucia Zarate, who sat on our knee at 4f pounds.
But we are bound to admit that the blushing Lucia
couldn’t twist one leg round her head like the
New Zealand Midget.
The exhibition business has been run so
hard of late years that the whole idea is painted
inches deep with wheezy, asthmatic old age, but
still it is possible to strike something new in this
line, and the proposal to hold an “ Exhibition of
Irish Misery ” ought to fill up even Barnum’s in-
sane thirst for novelty. Dismantled mud cabins
removed bodily on waggons just as they wore left
when the starving occupants were driven out;
evicted tenants in their native rags and misery;
and gaunt hungry cattle fresh from the stony hills
which are let at exorbitant rents under tl e ?cot-
esque alias of “ pastures,” will be the principal
features of the show. It will of course be incom-
plete ; to embrace the whole range of desolation
it should include a fat absentee landlord, a grasp-
ing agent, a rapacious bailiff backed by soldiers
and police, a dead mother who has perished on the
hillside because she was expelled with her new-
born babe in her arms, and a host of other acces-
sories—but even without them the Exhibition of
Irish misery should be a great feature among
fashionable English shows next winter.
## # #
A profound respect for the memory and
fame of the late William Shakespeare prevented
us from witnessing the performance of “ Othello,”
by James Owen O’Connor, at the Opera House on
Monday night. The remarks of our contem-
poraries of the Press, and the expressions of those
who were present, incline us to the belief
that Mr. O'Connor is not a good tragedian, but
that lie might be a valuable man on a Balltown
sawmill. —Venango (Amurka) Spectator
Speaking of the recent Metropolitan Liedertafel
concert, tho mud-headed “cricket” of the Nuj}
says: “Mr. Hallewcll took part with Mr. Gainor
in the well-known duet “ Sound the Trumpofc,”
from “ Maritana,” which melody is a musical
evergreen.” So is the prize pumpkin reporter
who mistakes “ Puritani ’ for Wallace’s chef
d'ceuvre Mrs. Weldon, after varied experiences
in gaols, lunatic asylums, and other places of
amusement, has settled down into a successful
actress. She has just concluded a seven months’
tour of the English provincial towns with a drama
called “ Not Alone.” The company was anxious
to present Mrs. Weldon with the inevitable
“token,” so the choleric lady selected a self-
registering thermometer. She wants it to register
the state of her feelings, in order that she may
have due warning of the tantrums coining on
Mrs. Conover, manageress of the Olympic Theatre,
London, has dropped £25,000 in three years. Mrs.
C. differed from many other lady show-runners
insomuch that she had the money to drop. She
retired from the scene of her failures in a calm,
dignified twenty-shilling-in-the-pound sort of way.
Now, some of the darlings “bolt.” The Wyburd
Dramatic Company have been showing at the
Opera House, Auckland to bad biz. The com-
bination is a really good one, and deserves better
patronage than they have been receiving. J. L.
Hall and Carey are still with them MacMahon
and Leitch are doing phenomenal business in
Christchurch (N.Z ), 3600 people crowded the
theatre on the race and show nights, a grand pro-
duction of “ Flying Scud,” re-arranged for this
company by permission of Mr. Boucicault, being
the attraction. By the way, Boucicault, recently
interviewed in London, said a lot Of
nice things about M‘M. and L , airily alluding to
them as the “ Kings of New Zealand.” They open
the new theatre in Wellington on the 17th with
the “ Silver King The Lynch Family start to
campanologise the North this week, opening at
the Victoria Theatre, Maitland, on Monday...
Violet Cameron gets merciless treatment from
American critics. “ Nym Crinkle,” of the New
York World, says that “ her face is coldly intel-
ligent, but riot pretty,” and that “her voice is of
no range whatever, and of little quality.” Nor is
he more appreciative of her talent, classing her as
“ essentially an amateur.” Even her matrimonial
eccentricities do not seem to make her popular
Mrs. Langtry is said to be an expert fencer and a
dead shot with a pistol. Awakened at 9 o’clock
every morning, she has an ice-cold bath, then
sleeps for half-an-hour ; at 10 a.m. her breakfast,
consisting of a cup of tea and some fruit, is
brought in, together with the morning news-
papers ; at 10.30 her secretary arrives and at 11
a.m. her fencing master. Then she goes to re-
hearsal, taking a drive at 4 p.m. Her life is by
no means an idle one, although somewhat
luxurious Dion Boucicault says he will never
visit England again. The frost that surrounded
his recent production of the “Jilt” is assigned as
reason for this decision.
lii N.S.W. political circles the question of
the hour is : “ Which of the Ministers was it that
platonically hugged the girl on the box-seat ? ”
An accurate report of the recent interview
between Mr. Julian Salomons, Q.C., and Sir Wil-
liam Manning would be delicious reading. Rumour
has it that the conversation was chiefly on one
side.
HOTELKEEPER’S STATEMENT.
Tam worth, N.S.W., May 27, 1886. —1 have
suffered from pains in the small of my back the
last six years, and for the last four months they
have been so bad that I had to call a medical
gentleman, who, with all his medicines, did me
no good. At last I got so weak I could not retain
my food on my stomach. I was running day and
night, having no control over my urination, the
discharge from the kidneys being more like blood
than water, and of very offensive odor. Finding
I was not getting better, I went to Sydney, and
sought medical advice—all to no good, my appetite
being completely gone ; and as my life was in a
precarious sta f e, I returned home. Seeing an
advertisement of Warner’s safe cure, I concluded
to try it. lam pleased to state I have only used
two bottles, and my health is improving rapidly.
I am beginning to eat as well as ever, and my
complaint has ceased to annoy me in any way, and
lam getting strong again. I can safely recom-
mend Warner’s safe cure to all brother hot,el-
keepers. It is one of the best medicines to §top
all bad indigestion in the morning. I believe no
one has suffered with the same worse than I have
the last year or so, and now it has all gone.—G.
K. MILLS.
A CHANGED MAN.
Breakfast Creek, Brisbane, Q., Aug, 8,
1886. —I have been a sufferer for three years from
live#’ diseases, troubled with severe pains in the
back, giddiness, weakness of the knees, failing
eyesight, and such complaints as attack mankind
at my time of life, fifty years last October, I was
compelled to take to my bed, the pains were so
severe, was weak, low, and melancholy. While
lying there, I saw in a local paper Dr. Heinon’s
confession, whose case I found closely corres-
ponded with mine. Seeing what Safe Cure had
done for him, I made up my mind to give it a trial.
After the first bottle, I noticed slight benefit; I
continued, and after using five bottles, left my
bed, a changed man, and was soon able to resume
my work. Have used forty-seven bottles altogether,
and for the good Warner’s safe cure has done me,
I never fail to recommend it. —T. SOMERVILLE,


Pepper
Salt
Warlike Woods, the would-be warrior of
the Victorian Senate, is once more upon the war-
path. He proposes the immediate establishment
of “a citizen army, composed of all the males
horn in the colony of a certain age.” The wording
of the proposal is mixed, but the sentiment is
good. It is inspiring. If Victoria—where the
fellows sling mud at officers in uniform—wants a
standing arm* of citizens, then N.S.W. must not
be backward in the fray. The office minstrel-boy
will take the harp ho loves, and sing a—
The salt tear-drop bedews our lashes as we
write. Mrs. Elizabeth White is seeking a judicial
separation from husband John in the Melbourne
Divorce Court. They have been married 49 years,
and their eldest child has attained the ripe age of
47, but still they are not happy. After a spring,
summer, and autumn of conjugal contentment,
now, in the very winter of their lives, John lifts a
pitchfork to his old woman when she “nags” a
bit. In vain has his Honor the Judge represented
to Mr. and Mrs. White that life is short and
lawyers’ bills are long. They have made up their
minds to have a separation ere sinking into the
silent tomb, and the case has been postponed to
allow of a deed of settlement being arranged
A grocer li\ ing at Newtown, near Welling-
ton, N.Z., made a slight miscalculation lately. He
had a little lame customer named Smith who
owed him a small balance for stores. One day a
little girl whom he took to be the daughter of the
aforesaid Smith called on him for some groceries.
‘‘What’s your name, my girl?” said the grocer.
“ Please, sir, my name is Tilda Smith,” replied the
girl. “ Tell your father from me that next time I
see , him I’ll wring his nose.” “ I will tell him,
sir, said the maiden. Next day, when the
grocer s shop was full of customers, a gigantic
navvy, with fi3ts like hind-quarters of beef, came
in and introduced himself. "My name is Smith /”
he roared in the tones of a thunderstorm ; “ I be-
lieve you want to see me.” “ N-no, not that I
know of,” tremblingly answered the grocer.
Well, if you don't, I want to see you badly,”
sa ; d the navvy, turning up hi3 sleeves : “you sent
a message to me by my daughter yesterday that if
you saw me you would wring my nose. You had
better begin at once, for you, have only five
seconds to live.” It must be so—some mistake,”
said the grocer ; “ the Smith I meant was a little
lame man.” “Why, you ruffian !” cried the
navvy, “that’s all the worse for you, for that
man is my brother’’—and, without waiting for
further explanations, he reached across the
counter, seized the grocer by the nasal organ,
pulled him over into the shop, and calmly pro-
ceeded to sweep the floor with him. That grocer
will be more careful in future how he deals with
the Smiths. They’re a family not to be trifled
with.
* * " *
“I had a dorg once,” said the ono-eyed
man, “and you only had to go outside and point
up the naddock and he would go and fetch down
the ration sheep.” “Well,” said the big man
with the buck teeth, “ I had a dorg that could
beat that. He used to lay round and you only had
JOHN’S REASON.
“WHICH COUNTRY DO YOU LIKE BEST, JOHN—CHINA OR AUSTRALIA?”
“OH, ME LIKEE OSTALIA —IN CHINA TOO MANY LIAR, TOO MANY LOGUE, TOO
MUCHEE CHEATEM.”
“AH, JOHN, I SEE-IN CHINA THERE’S TOO MUCH COMPETITION —EH?”
to take down the steel and begin to sharpen the
knife find away he’d go. No need to say any-
thing.” “ Yes,” said the little man in the corner,
them was smart dogs—but a cove that lived
near me had a dog that used to go and scratch the
lid off the meat-cask and look in, and when he
found it was getting low, off he’d go and fetch in
the killing sheep and then bark till you came and
killed one.”
* * *
A new musical instrument lias been dis-
covered, as if there were not enough already. The
inventor has ascertained that by standing with
his mouth open and tapping his skull with a beer
mallet he can play tunes with great accuracy.
This sort of thing will add considerably to the
pleasure of a N.S.W. Parliamentary discussion,
for in future when Abbott is explaining how it is
that he has not 28 i relatives, including his grand-
mother, in the Civil service, Habigle can extract
melody from his brains with a bung, and turn
Abbott into an opera.
* * *
The newest device to prevent Australia
becoming a dumping-ground for Asiatic rubbish is
to cut off the pig-tail of the Chinaman, and this it
is solemnly asserted will keep that loathsome
spectre at a distance. We would like to know,
however, what it is proposed to do with the tail
after the animal has been amputated from it. If
it is to be mounted on a handle and used to swish
the rising youth of the country in Australian
schools, it will spread leprosy in every direction,
and it cannot be tied on to a bob-tailed cow in the
fly season as a weapon with which to fight mosqui-
toes without disgracing the cow and utterly de-
stroying the confidence of the British public in
Australian frozen beef. Again, we would like to
know exactly how it is to be cut off. Just below
the chin and across the throat, we think, would
be the best place, though perhaps this might be
objected to on the ground that the Chinaman
would make a puddle and require to be wiped up :
or if the object was simply to strike terror, a good
method might be to tie the pigtail to a locomotive
and the pig—we ought to say Chinaman—to a
horse, and await results when the pair started in
different directions. An addition of £1 to the
poll-tax would cover coals and wear and tear of
horse, and when the operation was over it is pro-
bable the Asiatic would desire to start hack for
his own flowery land by the first boat. This sug-
gestion is copyright.
* * *
The Weeding divorce suit, in which Dr.
Rose, M.P., of Melbourne, figures as co-respondent,
has temporarily broken down, because Weeding is
unable to pay his wife’s lawyer as well as his own.
According to law, it seems that a man whose wife
is suspected of having broken the seventh com-
mandment in company with a legislator of high
moral character, must not only have his own
advocate, but he must hire another to call him a
liar and a skunk, and when this individual shows
the jury that the petitioner is not fit to be turned
loose in a 9,000,000-acre desert in company with a
sand-crab, he should rub his hands and chuckle to
think what good value he is getting for his money.
Of course as this is law it is all right, but it seems
rough to have to pay some £2OO for the purpose of
being kicked.
* * *
Among all the men who ever hung on like
grim death to the golden calf, Nathan, of latitude
14 ‘ N.Z., seoins to have been about the most
enterprising. He is now dead, and hangs on to
the tail of the calf no longer, and his money has
gone to ’Ell—that is to say, of course, one
Ell borrowed it before he died, and has not yet
settled up. The executors of the chosen one have
run Ell into the Bankruptcy Court, and they want
£5128 in return for the £2OO originally borrowed,
hut there does not seem to be much chance of
their getting it, and Nathan, who i 3 now pawn-
broking in another world, looks up —or down, as
the case may be—and howls, holding the red-hot,
cast-iron pawn-ticket with a pair of tongs. If he
had only lived 18 months longer Ell would then
have stood a fair show of owing him nearly the
whole national debt, for Nathan’s arithmetic was
of a kind that turns £1 into exactly £22,150,000 in
10 years, and if he could have hung on for a
quarter of a century the indemnity France paid to
Bismarck would have been a fool compared to his
bill. We might then have enjoyed the pleasant
spectacle of a suit in the Small Debts Court for
about £500,000,000, but Providence saw that
things were getting too hot and took Nathan
away.
* *
A fisherman died lately down in Riverina
leaving behind him a beggarly collection of furni-
ture, Ashing nets, some antiqlie shot-guns, and
two brace of rusty horse pistols. As he had no
relatives in the colony, the Clerk of Petty Sessions,
as agent for the Curator of Intestate Estates, took
possession of the property and advertised it for
sale. A big crowd rolled up at the sale. The
furniture and Ashing-tackle were soon sold off, the
Arcarms being reserved till the last. ‘'Now,
gentlemen,” said the auctioneer, “here you have
a superb collection of shooting irons, and if any of
you are troubled with hen-roost robbers, I con-
fidently advPe you to go in for one of these good
old-fashioned horse pistols.” “ See here,” he said,
cocking the pistol he had in his hand, “although
they look old they are in Arst-rate— Bang ! end a
shower of slugs from the accursed Arearm sent
the Sunday bell-topper of the Mayor, who hap-
pened to be standing by, into a million fragments
round the room. “Carry me home, carry me
home!” feebly implored the Mayor when he got his
breath ; “ the infernal thing has blown my brains
out!”
WAR SONG.
Now, buy for us a battle-axe, a suit of armour
bright,
A two-edged sword, a plumed, helm —we want to
go and fight;
Lift high the waving banner of Australia in the
breeze,
And lead us on to glory and destruction, if you
please.
Let every gallant native be enrolled in our ranks :
From wool-stores, soft-goods warehouses—from
grocers’ shops and banks ; ■
Bring out the brave assailants and instruct them
in their drill,
And, after that, provide’em with an enemy to kill.
We are a warlike nation, but we haven’t got a foe,
So how—by all that’s gory!—can we lay the vil-
lain low ?
The Russians might invade us, but —alack and
well a day!
They only breathe defiance from twelve thousand
miles away.
No matter, blow the trumpets, beat the dickens
on the drum,
We’ll wage a war, in spirit, with the troops that
cannot come;
In dreams we'll guard our hearths and homes, and
like true heroes fall—
At least we’ll play at soldiers, though we never
fight at all.
LIZZIE AND JOHN ARE OUT.
(With apologies to Will Carleton.)
Yes, draw up a separation in a beautiful round-
hand text,
For Elizabeth White —Lord help her!—and her
old man, John, are vex’t;
They’ve only been wedded a trifle of some nine
and forty years,
But they're weary of walking together down this
wearying vale of tears.
John has soen seventy summers, and Lizzie ain’t
over young,
But she isn’t so derned decrepit but what she can
wag her tongue ;
While Johnny can stick a pitchfork in the hide of
his lovin’ spouse,
And pitchfork and tongue together have created a
heap of rows,
o Liz. has agreed with Johnnie, and John has
agreed with Liz.
That her notion of things in gen’ral won’t never
agree with his ;
And, instead of a golden-weddin’, and a playin’ of
Darby and Joan,
Having lived for so long together, they are wantin’
to die alone.
Yes, draw up a separation between John and
Elizabeth White,
And we hope, when they come to sign it, they’ll
see that it’s drawed all right;
Or mayhap, when they get to Heaven (as will pro-
bably soon befall),
They’ll find that, through slovenly draughting,
they ain’t separated at all.
P'r'aps their baby of seven and forty, with wings
and a gold guitar,
Will mind ’em of days forgotten, and address ’em
as “pa” and “ma” ;
Then p’r’aps they’ll be reunited on account of that
legal flaw,
And laugh, through their tears and kisses, to think
as they went to law.
* * *
“The steamer Arawa arrived at Hobart
early this morning. Among the passengers were
some members of the Australian cricket team.”
A popular air, please >
OUR BOYS ARE HOME FROM E. TO-DAY.
Our beaten boyg are back with ns,
Denuded of their bays,
And no one seems to care a cuss,
No row the papers raise ;
No feast is in their honour spread—
No fatted calf is slain ;
No bonfires burn for their return—
They’re merely back again.
Chorus
Our boys are back again,
Their glory’s on the wane ;
The old-time cheers are changed to sneers—
Our boys are back again.
But shall we kick ’em cause they’re down,
Those prostrate lions spurn ?
No ! deuce a bit i their lost renown
In good time may return ;
Those “ashes ” they may yet dig up—
Those laur-els green regain ;
Then the changeful crowd will roar aloud—
“ Our Boys are back again !”
Chorus :
Our boys are back again,
We’ll swim them in champagne—
Hip, hip hooroo! for the kangaroo—
Our boys are back again,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Old “Dick” Goldsbrough, of Melbourm
left £62,000. b Urnc
Judge Cooper, of Queensland, travels lik
a Pasha. He spent £5BO in expenses last year i
North Queensland. Sir Sam has docked it to £4oo
Mr. Water-Jug Foster is understood to
be somewhat disappointed at hi 3 non-an
pointment to the N.S.W. Chief-Justiceship J U( ji
Windeyer’s friends affect to be mildly surprised a
the noglect of their favorite.
It is understood that Mr. Julian Salomons
Q. C., will take the advice of his legal friends as k
proceeding for libel against a certain Sydney even
ing newspaper on account of a one-line param-anl
published in its issue of last Saturday.
L. L. Smith has returned to Australia
after a most successful trip. He has been all ove
the world and has put the old question to everv
body of importance from Wales down to Moukhtar
Pasha : “ Don’t you feel well, young man ?”
There is yet hope for England P cor
little Randolph Churchill suffers from a painfu
something or other of the mucous what d’ye cal
it, and the doctors tell him that he cannot live
more than 10 years. Meanwhile, the Grand Ole
Man is chopping down trees as usual.
There is much talk in England of the pos-
sible restoration of the gallant and giddy Colone
Valentine Baker to his old rank in the army. His
friends, among whom is the Prince of Wales are
trying to persuade the Queen that such an act of
clemency would befit her jubilee celebration.
They say that Edmund Yates (who owes
Lord Lonsdale one for locking him up over the
celebrated World libel) has taken Violet
Cameron’s husband in hand, and will help him to
make things warm for the gallant peer. In the
Bulletin office Violet is gracefully referred to as
the Early Pearl.
Julian Hawthorne says, in alluding to the
marriage of the Princess Louise with the Marquis
of Lome, that the Marquis was compelled to ac-
cept the Princess, and that he, though a com-
moner, was received into the royal circle only be-
cause the Princess was known to be incapable of
bearing children.
Henry George is described as “ a sturdy,
bald, red-bearded, and emphatic man, who talks
with great earnestness. He inspires respect even
among millionaires, for he is not of the howling
and murderous species of socialists by any means.
He is, however, much too mild for the extremists
of the labour organisations.”
“ Lord Carington,” writes the Melbourne
Herald’s stipendiary phrenologist, “ must have
plenty to do or he will chafe like a caged tiger.”
His Excellency s immediate predecessor also re*
quired plenty to do, and when he found himself
getting out of training he used to lean over a
fence and cluck to the gubernatorial hens.
The Honourable Evelyn Anderson Pel-
ham, J. P., an offshoot of the unsavoury New-
castle family, is a licensed cab-driver in Ponclon,
It all came out in a police court case when the
Honourable Evelyn summoned a cab proprietor
for assault. Thus is a hitherto respectable calling
being brought into disgrace by “ the old nobility.”
Sad.
A few weeks ago Mr. Naylor Leland, one
of the richest men in England, went out shooting
with his son. His son somehow happened to
shoot him, and consequently he is now one of the
richest men in England in place of his parent.
Young Leland is generally alluded to now as
“ Bagdad, ’ because he bagged the aged party so
neatly.
The Escajted Nun took a knife and fork at
the Melbourne grand lodge dinner of the Orange
Institution. Edith was good enough to observe
that “ the Orange body didn’t want to stir up
strife, but thought the Roman Catholic ques-
tion should be treated with a strong hand.”
Proceedings terminated without the police being
called in.
The Rev. Dr. Lorimer, the well-known
Baptist clergyman, tells this story against himself;
‘‘ In London, afew weeks ago, I visited a market and
asked the name of a peculiarly ugly fish that lay
on the counter. ‘We call them Baptists,’ replied
the dealer. ‘ Baptists!’ I rejoined, ‘ why Bap-
tists?’ ‘Because,’ he answered, ‘they go to the
bad so soon after they come out of the water.’ ”
The Rev. Philip Brooks, a well-known
American pastor, never gives audience to any-
body, male or female, except in the presence of his
secretary, “in order to avert the possibility of
scandal.” It is roughly estimated that there are
some 16,000 clergymen now- wandering about
homeless who would have been happy and re-
spected to-day if they had taken this simple pre-
caution.
Queen Victoria is very strict in the matter
of court etiquette. She even makes grammatical
rules. She wishes to be referred to as Her Majesty,
not her Majesty. This, however, is much more
modest than the requirement of Russian royalty
which has the names of the imperial family printed
on the title page of tho orthodox prayer-books in
big capitals, while the name of God appears in
small type.
A decent old patriarch, who had lived
honestly for 90 years, died recently in Wellington,
N. Z., and when one of the local papers took notice
of tho event it stated, among other things not
worth repeating, that “ those who had the honour
of working with the accused before the infirmities
of age began too creep over him,” &c. Presum-
ably the offence the old man had committed was
that of living too long.
A Wellington (N.Z.) man lately gave
away a lot of worthless mining shares on which
he had paid calls till he was bald-headed. Shortly
after he had transferred them however, ihe quartz
reef they represented revealed a rich scam of gold,
and the shares jumped in value from 100 per cent,
below nothing to a gross total of £38,000
for the lot. By last accounts the patient was as
well as could be expected.
Julian Hawthorne writes :—“ There is
nothing in Ouida, mentally, morally, or physically,
which any man or woman can respect. The dig-
nity of human nature (such as it is) is lowered by
the fact of her existence, and every overt act of
the unfortunate creature has been a mischievous
act.” Yet this is the woman frem whom the S. M.
Herald’s special commissioner “annexed
moralisings on the Melbourne Cup.
Tom Brassey, the brand-new peer, will
favour us with his gilded presence early in the
new year. He told a New York interviewer that
his visit to Australia was intended to “ promote
the cause of Imperial Federation.” It must be a
grand cause which requires the aid of a money
baggy busybody, like Brassey, to sboYO it MM’


, ~rP u forgive him for all that, if his ii 1 epics-
sibic Stter-half will promise not to write a hook
being aware that H.R.H.
. les has only enough orders-medals, bags,
cordons, crosses, coronets, stars, garteis,
ribbons, shields, and scutcheons to cover
featheis, a -J 1 and aM omen-look upon
hiS as a field that wants planting, and
hiSa l P £ec,uentTy sending home Prince and
PWnS ( knowing Japs) Komatsee to confer on
neglected hero the order-ye gods !-of the
& Httl Tory
mw- “Will it he believed that when the
Bng6nie visited the Colonial Exhibition
t P week she was permitted to pay her shil-
last weeK owd2 >> The story is almost
,ing dhole What were the C.M.G.’s doing to
‘lf S'noor lady (who isn't an Empress, by the
wL°v) to “ part ” her coin at the turnstiles ? It
W n d onlv be a graceful act of justice to restore
with diamonds-to Eugbnie-and
charge the cost to Australia.
The Rev. A. C. B. Cave has recently been
j wuhin a week—the first time 205., the
flned twice cos ts—for being drunk and dis-
S6 derhr and annoying foot-passengers at Brighton,
ord . , rp, „ warned him that next time it
En ?,a lie U S Without the option. The
Tv gentleman may bo considered “ a repreeenta.
Jf v ‘ Andtralian ”as he wasonce a resident of Wel-
r' inn" which village he endeavoured in a modest
hD f unassuming w!y to decorate with the hue
that is called auburn when it spreads itself over
the locks of aristocratic maidenhood.
The celebration of the hundredth birthday
nf M Chevreul, the great French chemist, who is
E” - sa
narv surgeon, Danton and Robespierre were out-
of the way country lawyers, Murat was studying
for thS priesthood, Soult, Hoche Moreau and
)P,aix were private soldiers, Ney an office
Serk, Lances a dyer’s apprentice, and Napo-
leon Bonaparte a second lieutenant.
Peter Beans, the champion chucker-
rnit ” of N S.W., has gone to pound stones for five
vpLs Peter ,n a hotel at Woolloomooloo, and
was well k - o' * in that salubrious locality for his
dog-shaped li 4 and elephantine muscle. When-
ft and °«rep = op , J
nromiqpq and had no more money to spend, i eter
deyer called it manslaughter.
With his eye in fine frenzy rolling, Nelson
P. Whitelocke, stipendiary tad to the S“
Mail, writes this In Memoriam of the late bir
James Martin
Mourn for the great, the noble spirit P&st ~ .
TWsYifeaway -."grieve that cruel Deaths cold blast
Has still'd that voice, alas ! for ever heel,
A nation’s loss— illustrious Truth u, dead.
How can Truth he dead while the c °rrespondence
about the treatment of Mr. Julian Salomons by
the Supreme Court judges continues .
His Honor Sir William Manning denies
having said anything which was in any way cal-
culated to wound the susceptibilities of Mr. Julian
Salomons, Q.C., on the occasion of the latter s ap-
pointment to the Chief Justiceship of N.S.W. it
rumour errs not, Judge Manning pursued a some-
what different course on the memorable day upon
which “ Parkes’ catamount,” our trusty well-
beloved William Charles Windeyer, Esquire,
jumped from the N.S.W. Attorney-Generalship to
a temporary judgeship which was permanent.
Sir Wil!iam is credited with having remarked on
that occasion that he utterly failed to see any
earthly reason for the country’s affliction.
The dueen’s latest eccentricity is the re-
cent command that all Highland oft ice is me to
appear at levees and court ceremonies m then
kilts. A further development of the same fancy
is reported in the fact that Highland regiments
are to take the place of those hitherto attendant,
upon her Majesty. They are very much alike
these royal persons. While H.M. takes care that
her eyes shall be regaled with unlimited hare legs
in possession of the military, Albert Edwaid goeth
where the saltatory female of the lyric stage
girdeth up her stockings and reefeth in her skirts
so that her appearance is like unto that of Eye
when she and her husband ran the world in
partnership.
We would like to make the acquaintance
of the boss eyed pelican of perdition who perpe-
trated his villainous postry over poor Sir James
Martin’s grave. Nearly half the country papers
of N.S.W. have reprinted this crime, and they all
put it down to the Echo. We did not hear the
ghoulish whoop of that paper ourselves, but it it
is wrongly accused it has libel to the \ alue ot
£650,000 out of the following verse alone
“ Soon at the Bar as special pleader,
Success his efforts crowned,
He grew into a brilliant leader,
An advocate renowned.’
We should fancy the author of that could tie his
ears in a bow round his waist, and yet trip over
the ends of them.
The Rev. George Dods, denounced as a
“heretic” and an unbelieving Strongite by the
Victorian Presbyterian Assembly, is a very pass-
able young fellow—for a parson. He is a whale
at lawn-tennis and waltzes like an angel. I’ herc '
fore it became necessary that Dods should be sat
upon. When any one man begins to acquire a
monopoly of the mashing in Presbyterian circles it
is time for him and the brethren to part. Flaws
in his doctrines are constantly making themselves
obvious. If Dods likes to go and lose an eye.
Paralyse a limb or two, and build a hump on■ mo
back, his here vy will be overlooked and he will go
straight up to heaven when lie dies. I, ruler pre-
sent conditions his future fate is veiled in miser-
able mystery. -
In Cairns, recently, our old friend, H. M.
Chester, the hero who planted the hmon
Jack on the New Guinea coast, moved, as presi-
dent of the Cairns School of Arts, that roe
Sydney Bulletin be excluded from the reading-
room.” There was no seconder, the general be-
lief of the committee and of North Queensland in
general being that they might, as welt shut up the
institution as carry such a resolution. Chester s
chief grievance against The Bulletin is that one
issue contains a cartoon wherein her Most Gracious
Imperial Majesty is represented as doing a heri-
tor ian. Taglionian, double back action cachuca ;
something between “ Fandango’s wriggle an
Bolero’s bound ” over the resignation ot Glad-
stone. Chester is an Imperialist and Royalist,
and when he looked at that cartoon lie snorted
like Job’s warhorse, kicked a hole in the ground,
muttered some fiery sentences about the literary
ruffians of the present day,” predicted the early
bust up of law and order, and “ our old nobility,
and ferociously stalked to bed.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bulgarian throne and the N.S.W.
Chief Justiceship have been going a-begging.
Mudgee Taylor says an Australian Repub-
lic is the proper thing and that the sooner it comes
the better.
In Hawaii the Parliament has been dis-
cussing the question of taxing the lepers, of whom
there are many in the island.
“ Our recidivistes will convert New Cale-
donia into a little Australia, minus the slave-trade
and British hypocrisy,” courteously remarks the
Republiquk Francaise.
Prince Waldemar, of Denmark, Was well
advised when he refused the Bulgarian throne. It
is a steep and slippery thing to sit upon, and when
a man has slid off he is apt to find himself mule-
driving at the bottom of a Siberian mine.
We have often tried to discover how we
may call a man a liar without reaping the conse-
quences. The Globe helps us : “ Experience has
proved that no reliance can be placed on the
N.'S. W. Premier’s 'political word." Thanks.
The French Government clear over a
million francs annually by granting permits to
Chinamen who want to run fan-tan tables. It is
much the same in Australia, except that the police
are in our case the parties who pocket the
plunder. ,
From the London Commonweal •
“The Australian colonies, especially N.S.W., are in a fer-
ment of discontent. Ever since they colonies they
have been used as the moral dyst-bins of Bntam. Jfirst vto
sent our criminals there, and then our paupeis, and now w
seSd our unemployed. For many rears past the colonial
governments have Veen promoting immigration, in spite of
the already overstocked condition of the labour ma ket.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph makes the
most out of Colonial Secretary Dibbs’ alleged state-
ment that the N.S.W. Opposition are * rat-
able and contemptible section. Ihe B.i. nas
however, apparently forgotten that when Parkes
returned from England the first thing he did was
to publicly stigmatise the people opposed to him as
“ crimps, thieves, and blacklegs.
TRYING THEM ON. THE CHIEF
JUSTICE AS WAS.
I Objections are growing m London against
the Colonial Bazaar to be erected in South Ken-
sington It has been known ever since the days
of Albert the Good (and- Uncommonly-Knowing)
that South Kensington is nothing -more than a
huge speculation of the Royal family and then
friends, who by successive exhibitions have sent
up the local value of land enormously.
The Welsh Church of England parsons are
waging a bitter war againstthe farmers for arrears
of tithes. By last account they were busy dis-
training on ihe effects of the poor agriculturists.
This is a new way of spreading the gospel. Fancy
St. Paul the incumbent of a parish, with a bum-
bailiff at his heels, selling off the goods and chat-
tels of his beloved brethren ! Let us prey.
“ And it happened that the country
gradually got into debt,”—this is how a Cooma
orator concisely accounts for the N.S.W. shortage.
“ And Mr. Dibbs was apolhicalspendthrift,” would
bs an equally satisfactory explanation, and more
truthful, for while the colony is piling up debt at
the rate of £200,000 a week this can only be con-
sidered “ gradual” by a post-prandial pro-Minis-
terial orator.
Will the coming woman take an active
part in politics ? ‘ ‘ Ouida's ” opinion is, that if the
coming man has sense he’ll warn her to keep off
the platform. And “ Ouida’s” reasons are because
the woman is the enemy of freedom. Give her
power and she is at once despotic :
“ As we again and again see the woman expecting from
her son the purity of manners of a maiden,and making no ac-
count—because she ignores them entirely—of the imperious
necessities of sex, so we.should see her in matterspf national
or universal import similarly disregarding Qr ignoring all facta
of whJch she chose to take n» note."
We have often been told tliat Switzerland
is the one country in Europe where Socialism
makes no real progress, where the peasant is con-
tented, and where man does not rail at his lot and
claw after the great unattainable. We have now
learned the reason why. When the Swiss farmer
wants to cart a load of hay from his held he sits
down and watches his daughter fill the cart, and
then he harnesses the young lady and a big dog in
the shafts and walks alongside while they trot
away with the burden. He is contented because
he does no work, and if we had a girl and a dog
line that we too would be contented.
The full particulars of the late terrible in-
undation at Mandalay have now been given by
the correspondent of the Times. It is not denied
that the blame lies with the English authorities.
No one was prepared to order a sum of money to
repair and strengthen the embankment. The
failure to do this has cost one thousand lives and
a waste of £2,000,000. Had we not, asks Vanity
Fair, better arrest our failures at home, our
bursting guns, and our bending bayonets before
wo take new empires under our care? The
Mandalay inundation is a poor spectacle of our
alleged prerogative of “ teaching the nations how
to live.
THE HONLY HABIGLE.— A POLITICAL
NOTE OF INTERROGATION.
Mr. “ Tommy ” Bent (leader of Her
Majesty’s Opposition in Victoria) appears to be a
singula" combination of rowdyism and grovel.
Speaking of the Elstemwick Park racecourse he
said that “ the Duke of Manchester, Sir W. J.
Clarke, and other distinguished men had been
there.” Distinguished for what ? The one as a
harmless “upstart” who flung his money about
in order to acquire a title ; the other as a common-
place peer who flings his title about on pro-
spectuses and circulars—in order to acquire
money. It is such men as these who appear dis-
tinguished to such men as Bent. There is, again,
another type of human beings to whom Bent
appears distinguished.
David Gaunson, the cut and thrust Bad. of
the Victorian Assembly, came out strongly in his
denunciation of Sir William Stawell’s appoint-
ment to the deputy-governorship. He stigmatised
the mentally infirm knight as a man who, in the
“Eureka” days, had asserted the Queen’s prero-
gative by “using bullets and steel upon the
people of Victoria,” and aptly described Duncan
Gillies as “ belonging to a class of politicians who
were always in favour of the prerogative, who
were always against the people, and who were
always wrong.” Repressing his natural tendency
to rowdiness, Mr. Gaunson made the speech of the
debate, and enjoyed the unwonted bliss of seeing
himself reported faithfully and well.
Father Boyle, of Ramagrange, Ireland,
recently denounced the Marquis of Ely « agent,
Godfrey Taylor, for the large number of evictions
which he had made, and the unfeeling manner in
which the tenants were being driven from then-
homes. He compared Taylor with the common
hangman to the disadvantage of the former, and in
tones full of bitterness he asked his flock from the
alter whether they would enter the same boat or
train, or shop with this worse than-executioner.
Shouts of “ No ' no !” were heard on all sides.
Since Father Boyle’s denunciations Taylor has
practically become a social leper. Twice he has
crossed the bay to Waterford and Dungannon
and on each occasion every passenger has left the
steamer. On another occasion, when he entered a
train, every passenger left it and waited an hour
for the next.
A Monaro correspondent complains to I he
Bulletin that when Colonial Secretary Dibbs
visited MichStago he went to the local Climeie
storekeeper and bought some tobacco-despitc the
fact that there were five white storekeepers
that tawn. The Bulletin isn’t a bitßurpnaed.
Mr. Dibbs has many enemies, and most ot them
have been made because he “ doesn t care a
damn.” He probably patronised the Michelago
Chinaman because the establishment o ■
moon-eyed person happened at the instant to be
the nearest at hand; and G.R.D. being pei y
natural in his style, and not caring a damn, as
usual didn’t choose to walk round the . block i
search of a white’s store. Although m this in-
stance he showed a spirit of independence raie
among politicans ho could hardly have chosen a
worse method of displaying his supreme disregard
for popular opinion.
Since the Carington Relief Depot was
opened for the benefit of the Sydney
on the 2'Jth October, 20,306 meals bad up to -atur
dav last been given, and 3124 married m-n had
received i 1,736 rations ; 440
.sent un to Kurnell to clear scrub, and of these an
but 20 P are still at work, and 100 single men sent
to Gordon. The latter had to walk 14 miles to
the job, and 87 of them are still workmg there
190 more single wei€ put ° n at tbe U 0 '
Park, and of these all are still employed. Other
smaller parties have been shipped to other locali-
ties, but there are still over 1500 names on the
unemployed list. Messrs. N. Melville, M.P., and
Perry, who manage the depot, work from 7 a.m.
to 9 p m., are not receiving any money payment
for their services, and their perks are comprised
in what their hunger desires of the luxurious diet
they dispense.
In County Limerick (Ireland) a boy has
been prosecuted “for whistling at Mr. Hugh
Murray Gunn, J.P., in a tone of derision.” It is
not known yet what will be done to that boy, but
derisive whistling at a beak is a thing which
must be suppressed, and he will probably be
birched. The local bobby says there are 37 dif-
ferent ways of whistling, but of these only nine
are permissible in the presence of a magistrate,
the others being expressive of disloyalty and a
tendency to Home Rule, boycotting, hen-stealing,
and obstruction to the police in the execution of
their duty, while one or two are equivalent to
actual rebellion. The youth who is now languish-
ing in a dungeon, it appears, perpetrated a No. 7
whistle, which sounds like the yell of a red-legged
fiend blowing a B-flat cornet, so it is impossible to
sympathise with him. He also looked at the
Brobdignagian ass-in-office in an objectionable tone
of voice, and held his nose in an insulting manner,
so he deserves to be hanged at the very least.
If a Roman Catholic barrister or judge
were to accede to Judge Windeyer's position on
the N.S.W. Divorce Court Dench in the process
of changes now impending, how would his
Honor manage to serve the two masters when a
divorce case came before him l We venture to
think he’d find himself in as tight a tix as the man
who had the tiger by the tail and didn’t know
whether it was safer to hang on or let go. Cer-
tain French Catholics have referi’ed questions of
conscience concerning the law of divorce to Rome,
and there is certainly no uncertain sound about
the answers received. Here they are:—
“ Q. Can a Catholic judge pronounce a divorce forbidden by
the Church, with the mental reservation that he is only dull-
ing in petto with oneof the casesofeeparation admitted by the
Church? A. No. Q. Can a mayor, following up a divorce
judgment with the mental reservation that he is only dealing
with the civil contractual part of a French marriage, pro-
nounce the dissolution of a union blessed by the Church ?
A. No. Q. Can a mayor with a good conscience officiate at
the civil marriage of a divorced person or persons ? A. No."
According to this no true Catholic can even act
as a registrar of marriages, a 3 he is distinctly for-
bidden to tamper with what Rome insists on being
a purely sacramental matter.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ E. Moreton”: There is a deal of difference
between a “ square ’’ man and an “ honest ” man. “ Square-
ness” means commercial h0n0ur....” P. Bierce”: At any
office where he is kept going hard all the time. The
work is peculiarly exhausting “ Charles Pren-
tice": We have so far been unable to find i
“ Cook's Voyages ” any reference to the building by th
illustrious captain of a cairn “ on the summit of the hill on
the banks of the Endeavour River.” Captain Thompson, of
the s.s. City of Melbourne, vh i recently discovered a cairn
which he says was built by Cook when that celebrated
navigator’s vessel was undergoing repairs, probably has his-
torical authority for his assertion..“ Black Tracker 1 ': Can’t
lay our hands on the information, but have heard the dis-
tance stated at 2000 mites... ‘ Thomas Campbell Thanks...
“ Sport” (Melbourne): Thanks, Imt Tun Bulletin can-
not be everything,and mu t keep within its groove. It's a
bad thing to put a horse out of his stride when he’s going
well, and there's no weekly newspaper in Australasia whose
circulation is increasing half so rapidly....” C.S.” (Yerriga):
Only by a gross distortion of the text could you uphold your
interpretation. Ycu might as well contei d that the com
mand : “ Come to me all ye that are heavy laden” was ad-
dressed to paunchy bishops stag;ering beneath the weight of
monej-bags...J. M‘C." (Etheridge River): Your little joke
is too thin.... “A. J.) : No. Henry George h a Protestant
Englishman... .“WAV.”: Because Sir Patrick has apparently
no fixed fiscal convictions. His attitude towards Freetrade
reminds one of the Scotch elders in their relation to the
efficacy of prayer: when they go to kirk to pay for rain they
never take their umbrellas “Chas. Warskitt : A
” dacoit” is an Indian highway-robber. It is also an oppro-
brious epithet (applied by Jingoes wishing to justify a big
national steal) to the Burmese patriot who pots the man
who has taken his country by the throat ” Great
Northerner ” : If the member you mention is a sworn teeto-
taller ” he ought to have a long and interesting history of
his experiences as a backslider “ Bulletinite" : Your
poetry is not up to BULLETIN 'ite “ Marliospike”: Our
gigantic brain is spreading itself over the exchanges for-
warded....” Observer”: Such items always useful... Native
Australian Your idea must occur to everyone, but not per
haps with equal force.... “Shearer” (Blackall): Can see no
-rounds to justify a personal attack upon one against whom
you can allege no tangible offence....” A. J.E. (Queensland):
Your excellent cartoon would require a column of explana-
tion “ Boomerang": Will work it up in that style which is
peculiarly our 0wn....”J. D. Hughes": Will publish the
fl-ures in a following number ” No Name : No good
”°RF.”: Thanks. Good item, well written....” F. Barnes
(Wellington, N.Z.): Thanks. Will receive due attention....
“ J.J.C. (Dulvadilla, Q.): Will fix it up —” A. Tracker .
Your yarn is not very a-tracker-tive, but may admit of treat-
ment “ P PS”' Nobody denies that Mr. Justice Kauoett is
an excißent lawyer, or that “his decisions have been less fire
quently upset by the Privy Council than those of any other
NSW judge” .“Common Sense : Your dignified
Ipistle has g ne to swell the contents of a mighty durt-
in, chock-full cf cheap unasked-for advice,... C.K.W
'here is but one neat thing in your two-column libel: He
3 'a speculator, and, though worth at least £lOO,OOO. is m-
xnressibly mean. Whenever he is forced to part with a
Hilling he pinches it so tightly that the Queen's head actually
iqueals with pain."
In his recent visit to the Richmond dis-
rict Mr. Lyne, the N.S.W. Minister of Works,
showed himself to he pre-eminently a man and a
brudder He was driving along a bush road with
i oarty of friends when a small log was discovered
ivim? across the track, and the Minister immedi-
ately stopped the procession, and expectorating on
his hands yelled for an axe. When he got it he
tore off his coat and with a frenzied air started to
hew the obstacle into splinters, though his friends
nointed out to him that it would he much easier
to lift the buggies over it than to adopt such a
heroic expedient. Lyne only replied with a look
of scorn, and leaping several feet m Urn aw
brought down his weapon with a ghastly thud on
the lo<n After half an hour’s work he had chopped
out a bit of wood the size of a Manx cat, and then
his friends, growing weary of the fun, hoisted the
vehicles over the obstacle, and cU&ggino -kyne in
again ift'eiit off at ft carter,


CHIEFJUSTICESHIP
The Dog in the Manger.


p» st ),
V
t/
, \b° ,
-.H”
If J n )/ s r
,gtf 5 H° P°
"1 tn°- fl i^ rK ,e. (ft
<l' i r y y
yyy *
'Uy . vJarm
ft r A R^ rofJi h L
fa* ) l act*ce to
, yt£ST!-
yourjy M-O- 71 ' $
7M*»yS
7 s/rcfi c»#T'r*-
ro/i
xyj) Hpr/Tf'o/
/ /' / r/
Jy/ry/Jl J €RJH£
JouFi/^
- Vat/ <Sfe GTe are rz#f £o
/ a<s tc)e J?are
J>eej?
3fJl/G()LFD C/fAffSt/P/S/S - - /
y jUf oa/iv /mipf/?
//usr. "I s^y
'~' ls rM-Tf Atsy 07-rirJ? t/WST yoi - KAy j
S/Z>£T*s Cf/<r ? " JlD= _
■y/r a/Trvry GTeff/o /f>e iffepfoo
jf ff>e 'Cen/enntct.f/yii-fe - <£uf £>6-° Aart S°^('re<*<£ / ff' r
4<tc{ J?osre of/'/" _ _
Illustrated Incidents.


Society
Lady Caring ton, through wearing light
Chlodrs about lier ait cheval, has demoralised the
equestriennes df Sydney. Ohe i ode the other day
down William-street, sporting d ivltite hat
shaped like tho “ cork ” article dear to men, aiid
around it she had wreathed a white veil ! As she
rode alone, and, save for a few dogs, unattended,
such conspicuous head-gear, however comfortable
it may have been to the wearer, was rather start-
Iling.
* * *
Some pretty dresses were worn on the
opening day of the international cricket match.
Two sisters looked charming in small black and
White checked tailor-made gowns and small
round hats with straight white feathers in front;
a black velveteen witb white soft vest of lace,
Stylish high black hat with white velvet how was
most effective 5 a navy-bide velveteen gown, flt-
beddtifdlly, Was worn with a large white lace
fiat; the effect being admirable ; a striped pdrple
and white gown With pdrashl Si 11 1 bonnet to cor-
respond formed a most attractive costumej A lady
who appeared in w-hite China silk with Wide
amber silk sash and cuffs, and white-tulle bonnet
adorned with wheat ears,scored a distinct success ;
a tailor-made gown of brown tweed, worn with a
perfectly plain brown hat, was extremely stylish ;
as was also a black and white striped polonaise
worn over a plain black velvet petticoat; two or
three flowered delaines pleased tho onlookers, and
one of the prettiest dresses on the ground was of
pure White, literally smothered in torchon lace.
* * *
This incident processed at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, a few Sundays ago. A man,
seated behind us, evidently disapproving of the
learned Bishop’s “ discoorse,” gave vent to sundry
grunts and “pshaws” signifying the most ntter
Contempt. He also indulged in audible remarks
fhicii as, “Ah, but take the other side,” “I’m not
so sure about that,” &6. A person behind him
took umbrage at these marks of scorn and un-
belief, and tapping the infidel on the shoulder,-
asked him to desist. Not he. The grunts became
louder and more withering, the asides more scorn-
ful. At last the peacefully-inclined person could
stand it no longer, and in a fierce whisper chal-
lenged the disturber to “ come outside.” They
-went. And this all occurred on Sunday, masters,
and in the best church in the city.
* * *
The latest sensational Sydney Evening
News cablegram is very savoury indeed, and at
tho usual wire rates must have cost at least £5O.
It refers to the Campbell divorce-case, and
Speaks of Sir Colin Campbell as one of the princi-
pals. The News doesn’t seem to be aw r aro that that
plitcky old warrior died many years ago, and
that he is not reported as having arisen for this
occasion only. The person concerned is of course
Lord Colin Campbell. The number of the lady’s
alleged lovera is on the increase, and will soon
embrace a large section of mankind. The Duke
of Marlborough, Captain Shaw, of the Fire
Brigade, Colonel Butler, of “Great Lone Land
fame, and the venerable Dr. Bird, are said to be
most deeply concerned, while an “ unknown
person is darkly hinted at. In a fortnight,
says the News, “ London will be flooded With the
particulars of one of the most revolting social
scandals of the present generation. But it will
not be so revolting that Market-street Lyre will
decline to report it in full —so there is joy in store
for any sinner that believeth.
I lii Melbourne it is announced that Miss
e Cren and Dr. Sparling are to bo married e'arly
3 xt month ; and that Dr. Enabling will shortly
Larry Miss Ilenty, of Kew.
* * *
The sergeants of the Ist regiment of
f.a.W. volunteers are going to give a ball. We
ope the Colonels and the generals will follow
heir example as soon as a hall is built that will be
irge enough to hold them. We never could find
at how it is, but the assortment of colonels at-
ached to a colonial army of 3000 men or so can
.ever be put in a three-acre paddock except by
lydraulic pressure.
* * *
Among the passengers by the R.M.S.
lhannon is Dr. George E. Rundle, of Darlinghurst-
oad, whose many friends and patients will gladly
velcome his return after an absence from Sydney
jf five months.
* * *
Mr, E. O. Ogilvie, lord of Yugilbar,
Clarence River (N.S.W.), is not having such a
pleasant time In England as he might wish. He
has found it easier to “ secure both banks of the
Clarence for some 50 miles to the exclusion of all
common people than to get what he. wants nom
an English hotel. It appears that with his two
daughters he arrived at Malvern at 11 o clock
pan. and went to the Imperial Hotel. Ho then
ordered a wild revel of tea and boiled eggs, also
some toast. The manager said he could give him
nothing as the hired girl was in bed and could not
he got up. Mr. Ogilvie insisted on reasonable
refreshment,” but the lord of the Imperial was
one too many for the ruler of the Clarence and
said, “I won’t argue with you, but you cannot
have supper.” Then the outraged Australian
went to the rival house and secured rooms and
a supper. Back he flew triumphant and called
for his daughters, but the porter told him the
young ladies had gone to bed! and further pre-
vented his entering the house. Sadly he turned
to the Belle Vue Hotel and ate as much supper as
an outraged M.L.C. can get through. Next day
he brought an action and recovered £a os. . but as
he. had only gone into the case for the sake of
“ principle Mr. Ogilvie was always a great
sticker to that-ho declined to ask for
costs In diplomatic circles it is thought that
this incident has thrown hack Imperial Federation
about a century and a half. We hope so.
* * *
A Melbourne factory girl has been want-
ing to get a drink of water during working hours.
Thirty machinists breathed the air of servitude m
an unventilated room 40 x 36 and 12 feet high, for
eight hours -a day. The heroine of our paragraph
was one of the lucky 30, and on a certain hot
morning she left her seat to quench her uurfjfc,
She was discharged in lieu of having “ every five
minutes ” of her absence deducted from her wages.
It came out in the County Court that her wages
was 15s. a week. We should ho slopping over
with sympathy for that factory girl only that in
Victoria--as elsewhere—good domestic service
billets afe going begging. It is a remarkable
fe attire of odr social system that any 30 factory
gifts gasping for breath in a 40 x 36 room, groan-
ing under the pretty despotism of a forewoman
for two stretches of four hours each, would all
agree in calling a better housed, better fod, better
paid, and better-looking parlourmaid ‘' a
slavey.” No end of young women have too much
“ self-respect” to he smart, cleanly servants, with
a6to 4 chance of marrying the baker. “ Inde-
pendence” is their racket. To mark their inde-
pendent spirit they will go, say, into a paper-mill
to fool about with filthy rags and inhale poisonous
particles of cloth. And to show their self-respect
they will crouch behind some nasty boiler, or
funnel, or sack, or something, to escape the obser-
vation of a decently-dressed visitor. Oh !we
know —yye’ve seen ’em do it. But let one of those
girls work in a wholesome private house instead of
an unwholesome mill, and then let the same visitor
visit the place where she works. What would
she do ? Would she seek to hide herself behind
the door after it was opened ? Deuce a bit. If
the visitor were a man the girl would ju3t mash it
right away.
* * *
The tale goes that one of our proudest
‘ ‘ representative ” Australians recently addressed
the Duke of Westminster as “ My dxike,” and
affectionately enquired after the “dukess.
Which reminds us that a South Australian
divinity once tackled his Excellency at a bazaar
with “ Can’t I tempt your Governor i”
* * *
The “baby stare” is the very newest
thing from America. When the eye-glassed dude
fikes his glistening pane upon a pretty girl she
reciprocates his regard with a “ baby stare. It
is ogle-proof and entirely destitute of soul.
The unhappy man writhes like a warin oven under
that stare. Any fellow who has been “ fixed” by
a six months’ old baby in a tramway-car or rail-
way-carriage can understand the dude s dilemma.
He is as one being mashed by a graven image.
His originally tender glance deepens into a look
of abashed perplexity. Finally he drops his eye-
glass and turns to flee. For the next 24 hours he
vaunteth not himself and is not puffed up. Sydney
maidens on the block, please copy.
* * *
The barmaid show at South Head, Sydney,
was not a brilliant success. There were about 20
lovely beer-slingers on the competition-list, and
each visitor received a ticket which entitled him
to go in and have drinks that he might judge of
their capabilities. He was supposed to bestow his
pasteboard on the girl who was most attractive
and deftest at her work, but as he was unable, to
pass an opinion on the latter point without having
a drink from each, and as 20 drinks do not qualify
the average man for passing ft judicial opinon on
any point the arrangement did not work very well.
A resident at Glenelg (S.A.) recently took
unto himself a wife, and the whole wedding party
finished up the happy day with a picnic. That
night the bridegroom was in gaol because a police-
man found him lying helpless in the drain, with a
gutter pup sniffing at him ; the best man was also
locked up because he smelt of whisky, and fought
the bobby ; the bridesmaid joined in the proces-
sion, for she was weepingly drunk, and mistaking
the officer for her long lost brother she clung to
him persistently ; and lastly, the bride, who was
fearfully and wonderfully “ tight,” and very pro
fane, brought up the roar. When they appeared
in court next morning they looked more like the
remains of a prize tight in a beer-shop than a wed-
ding party, and the two tidies wept copiously.
Nellie Stewart, in “ La Mascotte ” tells us
that “ no well-regulated woman ever travels with-
out her tro\isseau.” Nellie i 3 going to tra\el
shortly.
I There was at least one brainy, level-
headed passenger on board the steamer Tui which
was wrecked at midnight recently on the New
Zealand coast, and yet we are prepared to bet no
poet w'ill write about him as they did about that
historic boy who was blown up while howling to
a corpse. It was pitch-dark, cold, and rather
rough, and small youths, who should, of course,
have repeated comforting verses they had learned
at' Sunday-school, rushed about the deck in light
attire and screamed, and ladies who in their terror
had got on hardly any attire at all, screamed too,
and men swore and hauled at idiotic ropes that
had nothing at the other end, and at last the cold,
shivering mass of bootless, liatless humanity was
packed in the boats and they were about to shove
off. But at the last moment a tall, white-hatted
individual with a grave and cow-like aspect sloped
steeply over the bulwarks in evening dress and
(lt9PPed ijjto t&e little Ct&ft
umbrella with him and a Gladstone bag, and he
wore patent leather boots, and he carried a card-
case so that if the boat were cast ashore in some
bloodthirsty island—which this elaborate new-
chum thought quite possible—he might present
his card to the head murderer and introduce him-
self properly. All night he was calm and cheerful,
and kept his belltopper dry an & at the correct angle
in spite of the wind and waves, but when every-
body was landed in safety he broke down with a
wail and almost wept as he explained t hat he had
left his umbrella-cover and two collars on board
the unlucky Tui.
* * *
“I thought,” said a 6ft. Gin. bushman
as he looked over to the vice-regal box at a
Sydney theatre last week, “ that all these English
marquises and lords were such splendidly-built
fellows. Why, there’s only one of that ‘ push ’
that looks more than a jackaroo, and he’s a foot-
man.” Lord Carington was not present on that
night. *
It was rather awkward for the pious people
who propped up a certain alleged reverend gentle-
man in his recent southern tour when they found that
the good man was not j ust what he He
lectured eloquently on “ Social Purity, the Evi-
dences of True Manhood,” and similar subjects,
and the pink-faced curates and old women rallied
round him, but now that he is gone they find that
he was preaching to pay his expenses, as he ran
away from two wives, and there is reason to sus-
pect that the lady who accompanied him was also
flying from several husbands.
* *
The scene was in a settler’s house not far
from Cooktown, and the occasion was the mar-
riage of a packer with the heiress-daughter of a
local charcoal-burner. All the sassiety of the
neighbourhood crowded into the establishment,
and the bridegroom, clad in the unpretentious
garb of the unsophisticated Northern pioneer,
was beside the clergyman at the fireplace, a stout
female standing opposite. The atmosphere was
delicately perfumed by an odour of rondeletia and
rum. The presiding devil-dodger had just turned
to the stout female with the ominous question,
“ Wilt thou have this man,” &c. ? when a red-
headed woman yelled out from the far corner of
the room, “ Hey ! I say, mister, I’m the one he’s
goin’ to marry, not that other girl ! ” That
auburn-ringleted Juno was the charcoal-burners
heiress, and the packer narrowly escaped being
annexed by a fat woman who had been twice
married to Chinamen.
* * *
.A strange occurrence was witnessed the
other day "in a Sydney threepenny ’bus. Two
ladies who knew each other met at the door and
entered the vehicle simultaneously. One of them
immediately took out her purse and dropped six-
pence into the fare-box. That is the whole story.
Was ever a woman seen before to pay for another
woman ?
The following, which embodies a neat idea,
comes to us from a Port Melbourne bard
Another Far Northern wedding. Bride-
groom, drank as Silenus, refused to answer “ I
will ” to the usual question. Bride, beseechingly,
“ Oh Jim, darling, do say I will ! Oh, do, Jim,
darling ! ” A long and fearful pause, and then
Jim replied : “All right, old girl, let the old
procession start ahead. And it started.
* * *
An English journal has been cruelly recall-
ing some reminiscences of the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s long past visit to Australia. Alfred-
unhappy name '.—was the guest of an Australian
millionaire with three charming daughters. Daily
association with these young ladies seems to have
taken some of the knobs off even his avaricious
soul and their kindness aroused in him that sort of
chivalrous feeling which led Brigham Young to
sit up and get married occasionally when his tot-
tering old legs would no longer allow him to walk
about. He parted Irom them seemingly with
sincere regret, and with a pompous snuffle
he gave to each a cheap silver watch and
chain. This feat was only once beaten in the
British royal family, and that was when Wales
got a present of £5OOO worth of diamonds from an
Indian princess and gave her in return one of the
Queen’s early works on Brown. The lady did her
best to cover his meanness by carrying the hook
about on the back of a special elephant whenever
she travelled, but the wretched volume looked so
cheap and small and the elephant so largo that
even Wales became ashamed of the gift at last.
* * *
“ Whom shall our daughters marry V asks
Woman’s World (Melbourne). What’s the
matter with the men 1
* * *
Macquarie-street is the Park-lane of Syd-
ney, if it can be admitted that Sydney possesses a
Park-lane. Consequently, there can be no earthly
justification for hanging a whole row of long
stockings out to dry in the balcony of a ‘ swag-
ger” house in that fashionable thoroughfare.
# * *
There is a spicy little divorce case pending
somewhere in Australia—say Jenkinson versus
Jenkinson and Foozelberg—the details of which, if
related in full court, will be a treat to every
Wesleyan in the 'island. The gentleman is the
petitioner and ia a very temperate, religious man,
two qualities which were evidently displeasing to
his better-half, for when she ran away with her
gay young spark, she left, in a conspicuous posi-
tion in her hubby’s mansion, a Bible surrounded
with beer-bottles ! . Not content with she
painted a doll to represent her “ old man in
effigy, in the fireplace. All parties are just out
from Hingerland.”
* * *
One of the chattering ladies who are al-
lowed to caper in the columns of the bydney
weeklies, goes into ectasies over the fact that a
certain fair creature dazzled the eye 3 of the Cup Day
visitors by a display of (fully £5OO worth) jewel-
lery. Apropos of this, it may be remarked that
any pawnbroker's wife can make a temporary
splash when the old man’s pledge-chest happens
to be well filled. Mrs. Sholomon Shkinnem has
every advantage in ,l sassiety.”
* * *
Lady Wildey We read, receives her guests
seated upon a throne, with Oscar at her right
hand and Willie on her left. Every now and
then, in an imploring tone, Willie will address! his
mother, “ Mother, do you love me ? ” Then Oscar
takes up the strain, “ Mother, do you love your
Oscar ? ” Then they shake hands all round.
I The following tropical letter from the pen
: Mr. John Norton, the N.S.W. Labour Delegate
i Europe, appears in Reynolds’ Newspaper
“Sir, —Your timely reference to the ‘Carington Craze’ at
esent existing in N.S.W. reflects cri dit on Lord Carington,
.e governor of that colony; to the snobs and sneaks who
wn around him and fondle his very footmen, it would be,
they had any shame in them, a disgrace. Lord Carington
the most popular governor that ever left England for Aus-
alia, and is so chiefly because he knows how to be all things
i all men. While running horses at Randwick, and evin-
ng an interest in the powers of pugilists, he conciliates the
gidly righteous sections of the community by presiding at
3 end of long-winded sermons and lectures, in which the
laritable cupidity and thinly-veiled penny-pinching
ppocrisy of conscious and unconscious humbugs are
lingled with a fawning sycophancy as offensive
> true religion and charity as it must be to
ic well-bred and manly instincts of him for whom it is
(tended. As the friend of the Prince of Wales, the entry
E Carington on the governorship of the colony was hailed
ith a blast of blatancy and bluster that would have done
■edit to some of the cringing Cockney sheets of to-day
evoted to the glorification of modern cant. As the ffiend
f “the Prince,” of whom the Australian patrons of the
iritish aristocracy speak with almost ‘ blasphemous fami-
arity,’ Carington ‘ caught,’ and to-day he is nearly as popu-
ir as he was before he came into the colony. He gives
drawing-rooms’ and garden parties, and holds levees, at
'hich may be seen ancient cattle-duffers, boss cockies, and
hriving retailers of whisky nobblers’ and shandygaff ‘ long-
leevers’ disporting themselves like bulls in a china-shop, to
he extreme delight of ‘Carry’s’ flunkeys, whose limited
mowiedge of the Queen’s English is, however, eften out-
aged by the ungrammatical gambols of some of their
naster’s guests. His lordship is kept running up and down
Sydney and throughout the colony from one end of the
veek to the other. His journeyings are watched and chro-
licled with all the precision and minuteness devoted to a
;/,ar’s progress; he is plagued and pestered by fussy flunkeys
ind bumptious boobies, who think to win immortal fame by
icquiring a C.M.G.-ship by such means. Favours have not
fet, however, fallen thick among this grovelling herd ; and,
although a C.M.G.-ship has now become a sign rather to
mark a colonial toady than to distinguish an honourable
man, Carington evidently thinks that to confer even that
degraded order on such servile snobs as these would be like
putting a gold ring through a pig’s nose. Political ‘ dead-
heads ’ and social ‘ deadbeats’ swarm in N.S.W. They have
‘ bossed the show’ for many a long year; but they aie fast
disappearing before the rising tide of democracy, which
is invading every section of colonial society, as much
in N.S.W. as elsewhere. Of course, it is a pity that
a genial man like Lord Carington cannot be allowed
to play at governing a people at the people’s expense
without being pestered by swarms of ill-bred intruders, who
render his life a misery, and disgrace the colony that tolerates
them. But their preposterous pranks will have at least one
good effect—viz., it will enable Lord Carington to take
their moral and social measure, and op.n his eyes to the
gross deceit which these imposters practise on the British
public when they come home here, and piss themselves off
as representatives of Australia. And when his term of office
is finished, he will be in a position to come home and com
firm what I now state, that while they do not rer resent the
manhood and dignity of Australia, they do, indeed, leprf sent
that numerous class of individuals known at the antipodes as
‘ snobs and sneaks.’
Yours faithfully,
JOHN NORTON
(of Sydney.)"
The “ Escaped Nun ” says she “ has been
challenging priests, bishops and cardinals for 17
year.” So that Edith must be at least 40. You
don’t often find a woman give herself away like
that.
y- * *
The jubilee historian Woolcott, Town Clerk
of Sydney, is not to go alone to future ages as the
oyal chronicler by special appointment. One
William Ellis (London) has produced a work called
“ Fifty Y'ears of a Good Queen’s Reign,” and has
just about managed to reach the profoundest
depth of grovel. Says this human worm
“ As the last sun passed its meridian, and paled its fervour
in the west, how would he chide the lingering shadows that
hastened not their disengagements on the day that was to
be the last of all the evil days of his misfortuned life !
Again he has a great pull over the Sydney man,
as he know? the Queen, while the historian Wool-
cott can only obtain a knowledge of royalty 1 y
watching Johnny Young. Ellis is able to say
this :
“ I helped the Queen to get upon a chair, that her Majesty
might look out of a very high window. She took such »
very tight hold of my hand, to prevent herself falling, tnas
one saw her Majesty is evidently not used to getting on
chairs.” ; M' j :
Poor Woolcott ! He ixrit even able to say the
Queen has—ahem !—squeezed his hand, or even t ha t
he has held John on a chair or even put him into
a cab—though he may possibly have done as much
for certain previous Mayors,
* * *
Thus Labouchere in Truth: “A tall actress
is at a disadvantage in the kissing and hugging
part of the business. A lady can hold up her lijs
to be kissed, but to do so in an interesting manner
is not a gentleman’s privilege ; he must kiss dotvr.
Also, I should bar big bustles were I a ruanagtr
NOTHING OR A HUNDRED POUNDS.
Men have observed, since days of old,
That marriage alters pretty faces,
That love can oft he bought or sold,
And circumstances alter cases.
One string and one make two, we say,
But when a man is fairly haltered
And tied to one, on wedding-day,
It may be said, his case is altared.
He must endow her with his pelf,
And give her up his pantry key,
While she gives him her own sweet self,
And so the two are one, you see.
Once in a place—no matter where,
And I the time have quite forgot—
A parson got a happy pair,
And tightly tied the marriage-knot.
The bridegroom’s heart rose up like yeast,
The bride was happy, sweet, and bright;
The parson stayed to grace the feast
Till it was time to say good-night.
The matrimony suited them,
While to the parson, twas, yon sec,
A simple matter o’ money game,
And so he waited for his fee.
The bridegroom said, as he came forth,
“ What is the sum you say is due?”
“ Why, you-know best what she is worth,
So I shall leave the sum to you.”
“ Suppose I payment then delay
Until a twelvemonth run its rounds ?
And then I’ll know if I should pay
You nothing, or a hundred pounds.
The parson was a married man,
Who knew the dangers in the way,
And so this most un-FEE-ling plan
Quite took the old man’s breath away.
He gave his head a doubtful shake,
Aud wiped the dewdrops from his brow,
Saying, “If you please, I’ll rather take
The sum of seven and sixpence notv.
JOHN RAE.


and had a tall, tine-looking actress to get through
the embracing parts of the play. As they have to
stoop the hustle becomes a caricature in its pro-
minence.”
* * *
We cut this advertisement from Church
Bells, a London religious newspaper
“ A poor old Clergyman, who has been ‘engaged for years,
is Very anxioUs to marry almost immediately, chiefly for the
Sake of the lady, who is in unhappy surroundings at present,
B.U't lacks suiticient pecimia-y means to enable him to do so.
He urgently needs five pounds at least, and having no other
resource, reluctantly makes this appeal to your sympathy.
He feels sure theri are some who would be glad, as a thank-
offering for their own happy married life, to send him such
small or large sums as they can afford. Highest references,
if required.”
* * *
A refreshingly naive letter written by Sir
William Manning, and read aloud at the Sydney
barristers’ meeting, has been extensively circulated
during the past few days. In this cpigtle his Honor
states that, far from feeling any ill-will towards
Mr.. Julian Salomons, Q.C., he “actually had it in
contemplation to ask the gentleman to dinner! ”
“ Contemplation” is good.
* * *
We read of a New York gallant who,
“when the dainty slipper of a married beauty acci-
dentally came off, seized it, filled it with cham-
pagne and drank her health! ” The company
surely must have been at the four-bottle stage ere
they became so impulsively chivalric as to render
possible the incident mentioned. However, some
men will drink out of anything.
* * *
The upper-crusty crowd who have dined
and drinked the representative Australian in
London on such a lavish scale are now complain-
ing bitterly that that Cheap-lunched kangaroo
shows no sign of a desire to return their hospitality.
This they ascribe to meanness, but for once they
are wrong. The Bmotian phalanx of sheep-
shearers really dare not meet together to compare
lies, and they cannot invite a crowd of dukes and
such to meet them when each duke would find
himself face to face with 100 men, every one of
w’hom had told him that the others were low per-
sons, and that ho alone was responsible for the
sending .of the N.S.W. contingent to the Soudan.
Life is too short for such a spree as that, hut the
British aristocrat does not allow for this circum-
stance, and,one of his organs briefly observes
that —
“ Whatever good the Exhibition may have done to the
political or business interests of our colonies, it Is open to
the charge of having foisted upon us in most objectionable
conspicuousness as sickening a pack of snobs as we have ever
had among us ; men in no way representing the best elements
of the colonies, fellows with gaping mouths and open hands
ready to be treat’d and junketed all over the country,
anxious for a nod from any titled person in whose way they
might come, ever mindful of themselves and their own appe-
tites, and consumed at the same time with a most ridiculous
sense of their own importance.”
This is rough.
* * *
The English dude who has been trans-
planted to India doesn’t say “ Aw, thanks,” as his
brother in England does. Ho simply says “ Be-
holden,” and this will probably he cut down till
there is only the last syllable left and he’ll say
“ ’En.” Saying grace is now fashionable in
dudish circles, the correct thing being “ Oh,
Lord ! thanks—awfully,” but sometimes even this
is abbreviated to initials and the service is re-
duce to “ 0.L.T.A.”
4 OCLOCK TEA
On Thursday evening, the 18th, Dr. and Mrs. Milford gave
a very pleasant entertainment to about 30 guests.
Mrs. Warskitt has issued invitations for an exhibition of
dancing to be held in Sydney New Masonic Hall.
I* Sir Robert Fowler, ex-Lord Mayor of London, arrived in
Sydney on Saturday, the 20ch, and is a guest at Government
House.
On Monday evening, the 22nd, Mrs. Ferguson gave a plea-
sant small and early at her residence, the Glebe House, St.
Peters.
Dr. and Mrs. Simmons gave a most successful musical
evening at their residence, Alberto Terrace, Darlinghurst, on
Thursday, the 18th.
We are frequently hearing that Lord and Lady Brasvey in-
tend visiting Australia in the Sunbeam. Why do they not
ome ? We have survived Froude; Bras.vey can’t kill us.
On this Thursday evening, the 24th, Lord and Lady Caring
ton will be present at the New Opera House, Sidney, when
Miso Essie Jenyns takes a benefit in Romeo and Juliet,
The Marquis of Stafford is a passenger to Sydney in the
R.M.S. Shannon. He is accompanied by his brother, Viscount
Tarbat. They are, of course, to be guests at Government
House, Sydney.
On Thursday evening, the 16th, the Sao Amateur Minstrels
held their second annual social at the Oddfellows’ Hall,
Woollahra. About 60 people were present, and dancing was
energetically carried on until the small hours.
On Friday, the 19tli, in spite of the threatening weather,
St. Marks’ day and Sunday school picnic took place at
Chowder Bay. About 100 children, besides a number of
ladies and gentlemen interested in the parish, were present.
On Wednesday, 17th inst., a most pleasant farewell picnic
was given to Mr. and Mrs. Mountain who leave Sydney for
Melbourne—to the city engineership whereof Mr. Mountain
has been appointed—at the end of November. The picnic
party enjoyed the delights of the harbour in the Ma cotte,
returning to town late in the evening.
On Monday afternoon, the lflth, a Bazaar in aid of the
Good Samaritan was opened at Tempo, in the Town Hall, by
Sir Patrick Jennings. His Excellency the Governor and
Lady Carington were present, also Cardinal Moran, Right
Hon. W. B. Dailey, Very Rev. Dr. O Haran, a number of
members of Parliament, and a large crowd of ladies and
gentlemen.
The fashionable variety show at Merriwa (N S. W.) in aid of
the local R.C, Pxesbytery was so well managed that even the
imposition of double rates for admis’ion could not keep out
a big crowd. Miss Bettington interspersed the programme
with excellent music, acd Messrs. George and Grienaxvay
took the leading parts in the “Harvest Storm,” which
rounded off the bill.
The Sunday School Times, which cannot
be accused of prejudice under the circumstances,
has this to say of gospel hymns : “ It sounds comi-
cal to hear an ordinary congregation of well-
dressed, comfortable-looking people singing :
‘ Jesus, I my cross have taken, all to leave and
follow Thee ! ’ Think of a woman with a silk
gown .on, and a stuffed bird in her hat, standing
up and singing : ‘ Naked, poor, despised, forsaken,
Thou from hence my all shall be.’ ”
In a Certain American town, where drug-
gists only are permitted to sell grog, an Irishman
entered a chemist’s shop, and, taking a bottle from
his pocket, asked for a quart of whisky. The
salesman asked to what use it was to be put, and
the reply was : “To soak roots in it.” The order
Was filled, and the clerk, after handing over the
bottle and its contents, inquired, in a conversa-
tional manner, “ What kind of roots are you go-
ing to soak ? ” Pocketing the bottle, the customer
said ; “The roots of my tongue, bejabers.”
THE WICKED
WORLD
| iQ.uong Tart ran at Wagga races. lie was
a horse It is estimated that the matter ejected
in the recent volcanic eruption in N.Z. amounts to
five billion cubic yards, weighing six billion tons
—not quite a cubic mile, but it would take more
than the national debt of England to excavate it.
It would take a good workman one million years
to shovel it into carts, but it was all done in four
hours ! At Smithfield (N.S.W.) a man drank
five quarts of beer for a wager, and died full of
malt liquor, and gas. Many a more intelligent
beast has been sold in Smithfield The enemy
has entered Queensland,find the Land of the Croco-
dile Will henceforth be devaslated by the all-
devouring rabbit The two Charters Towers
papers are coming out as morning dailies H.
M. Stanley, explorer, visits Australia in February.
The beautiful harbour is getting ready It was
recently proposed by several members of the
Christchurch Acclimatisation Society to import
IN SYDNEY DOMAIN.
ONE OF THE UNEMPLOYED: “THE PERLEECE ARE MIGHTY SMART KEEPIN’ US
COVES FROM ’AVIN’ A WASH IN THEM BASINS, BUT NO ONE STOPS YOU
COWS FROM SLOBBERIN’ THERE.”
wasps for the purpose of catching flies. After
this we shall have tigers introduced to keep down
the rabbit-plague T. F. He Courcy Browne,
M.L.A., of Beresford Chambers, Sydney, who is
ex- as many titles as he has initials, has iust pub-
lished the fourth edition of his Miner’s Handy
Book. There is no humour in the book but a lot
of information.
# *
When the hangings of a H ungarian
Church caught fire a fearful panic ensued. The
solace of religion did not prevent the assembled
saints from manifesting the fearful horror of death
which is usually advertised as a monoply of the
unbeliever That every good Christian should
sleep in his armour is an exhortation older than a
circus wheeze, but still the man who insists upon
going to bed in his boots is always an object of
much and grave suspicion A German tenor,
Herr Albert Niemann, is paid just the same
as a N.S.W. Chief Justice, £3500 a year.
But he does not have half so many larks
Statistics, more or less accurate, show that John
Bull is by no means the beef-eater that he is
cracked up to be. Englishmen eat but an
average 451 b. a year, while the Australians
average 1401 b., and the Yankees 1.301 b The
Static, a London paper run very much on the
Imperial Federation racket, has died. Soon Im-
perial Federation will go and do likewise
Labouch&re, of Truth, has been sued for libel for
making fun of the “ ammoniaphone,” which, it is
claimed, is bottled-up Italian air, and can make a
high tenor out of a basso profundo The dearest
music to England—The German royal band
Wine is being made from oraDges in Florida.
The Australian “ soldier” does not begin
to have an idea of what discipline means. At
some of the European military schools the students
are only allowed to sleep on the left side, but at
others, where a deplorable laxity prevails, they
may sleep on either, and in one demoralised es-
tablishment they may rest on their backs also..
BRIEF MENTION.
A fearful Auffray—the Lismore light.
Salomons’ deserted temple.—The Supreme
Court.
Alexanderofßulgaria, is, wenowlearn,to be
succeeded by Prince Salmon Wilson of Mongrelia.
The London Times would like N.S.W. to
change its name in Jubilee year. It says nothing
about any change in Mr. John Young’s name.
Mr. Dibbs asked his Cooma auditors “to
put themselves in the position of justices of the
peace.” That was absurd. They couldn’t all get
drunk or go to gaol.
There are 77 Orangemen among officers
and crew of H.M.S. Nelson. They are bound by
a solemn oath only to get drunk to the glorious,
pious, and immortal memory of King William 111.
“Madge,” of Truth, says that some
ladies are so tight-laced that they cannot button
their boots. That’s nothing. We have known a
man who couldn’t unbutton his coat, and he wasn’t
laced a bit. He was tight, though.
The Rockhampton larrikins charged the
1 o’clock gun with a pumpkin. Whon it wont oft
and scattered its contents on the front of the
opposite house everyone was under the impression
that the local Majah had committed suicide.
Herbert Booth, son of “General” Booth,
has been fined £3 os. ‘ ‘ for Working a Mme, aged,
and finflt llorsb ” at Halifax, Eng - 'and; lie sliofild
have bxtilajiied that no dthdr Soft of geb-gbe wofilct
condescend to work in a Salvation Arniy pro-
csssion.
In a New Zealand law suit a disputed
bank bill was handed to the j ury for inspection.
The intelligent foremax, having scrutinised it
carefully, passed it on to his fellow jurors with
the scathing observation, “That bill ain’t no
good. There ain’t no items to it.”
Three months and a sound birching was
the sentence passed on a pirate recently at Auck-
land (N.Z.) He was aged 11, and having stolen a
yacht and christened himself the “ Terror of the
Seas,” or something of the kind, he started on a
voyage in search of plunder and blood. The pirate
business is not what it used to he,
Gam Ganem ! At the last District Oourt,
Penrith (N.8.W.), Judge Dowling ruled that if a
dog was found on a person’s premises, such owner
of the premises would be deemed the owner of the
dog. Frgo , when the inquisitive bobby calls, all
the dog proprietor has to do is to pass his unregis-
tered dingo over the fence into his neighbour's
backyard. The wide-awake officer will then sum-
mon the neighbour, and while the latter L down
at the court getting fined, the dog can be coaxed
by the sight of a “ property ” shin of beef kept
for the purpose. The law’s a hass.
At a Sydney Police Court, lately, a smart
young fellow sauntered in and. took his seat.
The magistrate ordered the court to be cleared,
the evidence beiDg of a peculiarly odorous nature.
The dapper one made a move, to the press desk
and began to write with much enthusiasm as if
for an early edition. Magistrate, however, saw r
through the stratagem and enquired: “What
paper do you represent,” sir ! ” We’ve not given
it a name yet, your worship,” was the placid
reply, and the cheeky one showing a vigorous
determination to stay, the beak enquired not
further.
A Melbourne woman sought a judicial
separation on the ground of her'husband’s cruelty.
It chiefly consisted in telling his wife to “go
to .” The learned judge didn’t appear to think
there was so much cruelty in that. Neither do
we. Considering the queer ’uns that are getting
“ saved” nowadays,the chances are that Sheol will
soon be more respectable than t’other place.
Which reminds us that we whiled away half an
hour at a Harmy meeting last week. A mur-
derous-headed “ captain,” with a wall eye and no
nose, insinuatingly inquired if he was to meet us
in heaven. We took his measure a,nd murmured,
“ Lucifer forbid!
I'lie Law’s VengeaiieSS.
t>J Sydney, wlien a Map finds himself deid-brotfc
andSeesnoimmediate chance bf “raisingtlieWihd’
ho should instantly run out and smash somebody,
and then when the policeman come 3 along to arrest;
him he should screech like a maniac and chase the
officer three miles with a club. Some time last
month an elderly lady seized a young female
friend, and thrashed her till she was black and
blue, and then scrimmaged with a constable, for
which she was fined, with the alternative of one
month ; while a young Irishman, who had got no
work to do and had no money, was sent up for
three months without any alternative whatever.
If he had bunged up a citizen’s eye when he first
found poverty creeping upon him, it Would have
saved two thifds of his sentence; hut he did nob
kndw this. About a dozen ,Other victims got sen-
tences of one to six months for being hal'd Up,
while a man who rushed a debt collector and
called in his wife and family, dog included, to
help in the fun, was merely lined £1 and costs, or
,‘iO days. Assaults generally come very cheap in
Sydney, but even this rule is subject to excep-
tions as Thomas Brown found out. He committed
six offences In about a minute, i c. , he was drunk,
he damaged Patterson’s door, he mashed up Pat-
terson, he assaulted a constable, he used obscene
language, and he tore a pair of trousers
which Contained Uioi'b than half a policeitmtn
This latter amusement involved four months’ im-
prisonment, bdt strangely enotigh tearing the
trousers and tearing Patterson cost exactly the
same amount. If Patterson was not worth more
tiffin a policeman’s chbap pdnts it vtas a Christian
act tti srtffish hini. A lddy whd stood in thb road-
way and called oh the whole nation to home and
bo knocked into gory dishrags, was doomed to pay-
os. or pine in a dungeon for 48 hours ; while a few
minutes afterwards another forlorn individual, as
poor as a bush missionary, but who had not called
on anybody to come and be battered into a lurid
pulp, got three months. This individual lost a lot
of fun through his own stupidity. For three
months gaol he could have had a perfect blizzard
of drunkenness (7 days), have cursed a hurricane
(2 days), thrashed his wife (7 days), thrashed a
policeman (1 month—a bobby being four times
is Valuable Us a Wife), Whipped a publican
(H ddy.S—U publidUh is worth three fOUfths
of a constable), and taken out the rCst by
breaking d window, setting fire to U ddg, UUd
offending against decency; and, yet, like many
another prisoner, he lost all this gorgeous picnic
through being hard-up and out of work. Sydney
Shlo Was about equally Unfortunate. He wore a
co.it Whicli a hoßby “reasonably susptShtCd ” tt)
b'e stolen ; in other words, it looked too gOod td.bb
the property of a man whoso name implied tbit
he was only a receptacle for decaying vegetables,
and though no one claimed the article Silo was sent
up for a month on the off-chance that it might do
him good ; while another man, against whom a
theft wa3 conclusively proved, got off with 14
days. The rest of the prisonei'3 were then rushed
through for an average of seven days a piece, and
the magistrate went home for dinner,
The Melbourne City Council Was favoured
with a kind of archangelic visitation one day last
week. The civic fathers wore putting their heads
together in solemn debate, when the great Town.
Clerk seized a melodramatic moment to ding open
the door of the Council-Chamber and announce
" Sir I'dbert ifoWler; M. if, ex-Lord Mayor of
Ldndon!’ The Offect wds splendid. The assembly
salaanied, and rushed forward to kiss tlie item Of
the great man’s garment. There wa3 an imine :
diate adjournment, and in bumpers of champagne
the dazed and delighted Council drank to the
health of “ a gentleman wh , had tilled the high
and important office of Lord Mayor of the first
city in the Universe.” In the eyes of “distin-
guished foreigners,” and ill indr municipal lights, lh
Ltird Maydt df Ldndon is Something to he set
upon a pedestal and worshipped. Yet it is a
melancholy fact that the London gamins have no
more respect for that great man than they have
for Guy Fawkes. If he were not protected by a
strong body of police on November 9th the hoys
would certainly make a bonfire of him and his
gingerbread coach.
r Clid specidcie of a C'drdiruti wrdstlhig Witll
a goat and a dead Arab in a frantic scrimmage
for other people’s money is not an edifying one,
especially when the Cardinal is gloomy and
sour looking, and the goat is pompous
and vicious, and the Arab has been dead so long
that he is beginning to call urgently for burial.
Yet Cardinal Moran has, we hear, got into such
a position in his desire to grab the remains of that
sluSh-hofh ohtjjoiirmg—the so-eafied N.Sj.MI
“ Patriotic Fund.” The money was subscribed
in aid of murder and blessed by Archbishop Moran,
and as the N.S.W. men could not murder anybody
when they tried, and as they kept out of the way of
anybody who wanted to murder them* tl e most of
it is still unclaimed, and Ilis Eminence has there-
fore sent a circular to each subscriber—Protestants
and Catholics alike —suggesting that the fund should
bo handed over to him —not to bury poor old Arch-
bishop Vaughan, for he has remained so long
above ground that he is getting used to it, but to
complete St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney. The
Cardinal is not particular, although there is a
taint of blood about the coin, and he doesn't mind
although ghostly godts and niggers itlay haunt
the sacred pilo and curse the building in goat
Arabic—all he wants is the money, and we will
bet him two shouts and a plug of tobacco that he
never gets it.
An Adelaide hash-architect advertises that
his is “the best restaurant to call at before going to
the diggings.” We suppose when a man comes
back from the S.A. diggings he doesn’t want to
call at any restaurant. He’ll just go along till he
sees a dog squaring up to a hone, and then He’ll
throw his manly form on top of that dog and take
his dinner from him, ar.d if the dog ventures to
remonstrate he’ll eat him as well.
Thus a Melbourne correspondent it—
“ While Sydney is agitating itself »to provide
‘ refuges 1 for the frail creatures who have loved
‘ not wisely but too well,’ a little incident about
one of these asylums, situate in on? of cur
suburbs, may not come amiss. As we were
walking past the ornamental front gate of this in-
stitution wo saw a stately matron promenading
the lawn and engaged in converse with the medical
man whose gig was outside. The scene looked
remarkably tranquil, and, thinking how welcome
such a refuge must be to the poor wretches who re-
quire it, we turned a corner and came suddenly upon
the rear wall of the building. Over this wall came
climbing one of the inmates. With a furtive
glance backwards she scaled the bricks, alighted
on the outer side, and showed a clean pair of
heels round the corner. A resident near by, ob-
serving our astonishment, told us that this per-
formance was by no means rare, and that the re-
claimed ones were to he seen falling over the wall
at all times and seasons. The contrast between
the stately, unconscious matron in front and the
scaling grisette at the back was too ludicrous. We
smiled until people began to open their windows
to enquire what was 'the matter.


FOLLOWING DIRECTIONS.
MR. MCFUDD: OUR, PAT! AND THAT ARE YEZ DOING IN THAT TUB OF
WATHER?
MR. M[?]FUDD: “FAITH AND DIDN’T THE DOCTOR SAY OF SHOULD TAKE A
SHPOONFUL IN WATHER TREE TIMES A DAY? O[?] KNOW ME BUSINESS.
THE JUDGE.
5 3
HP**
<sr
&
w.
m
tyfiA
m
a
m
m
£JLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEn.R
FAR AND AWAY
THE VERY BEST
LAGER BEER
IN THE WORLD.
IT NEVER HAS MD A RIVAL AND IT
NEVER WILL, for each succeeding shipment i?
an improvement on the last. All doubts on the
subject can be set at rest in the most agreeable
fashion, at any first-class hotel in city or suburbs,
and throughout the colonies.
It can be 'had from Messrs. Mason Brothers,
limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co., Allt and
Co., Barrows and Gleeton, Lutat Brothers, Cor-
nollion and Co., R Batcher and Co , J. T. and J.
Toohey and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, and Co , A,
Thompson and Co., C. Bath and Co., Cooper,
Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co., A. Rowan and
Co., Tucker and Co , and Stewart and Co.
rjTHE FAVORITE BRAND OF KEROSENE.
THE INCOMPARABLE “ SNOWFLAKE."
Is highly refinid, water-white, non-explosive,
and 150 DEGREES FIRE TEST.
It is absolutely safe under all conditions, and for
BRILLIANCE, PURITY, and CLEANLINESS,
it has no competitor. 11 is
THE MOST ECONOMICAL
Light known to housekeepers, and, in a good lamp,
one of the pleasantest and least injurious to the
sight. Its use does away with
THE ECCENTRIC METER WHICH PUZ2LE3
YOU.
THE UNCONTROLLABLE BILLS WHICH
WORRY YOU
AND SECURES YOU AGAINST BEING MADE
TO PAY FOR WHAT YOU DON’T GET.
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Brothers,
Limited, George Griffiths and Co#, T. W. Eady
and Son, F. Butcher, Holdsworth, Macpherson,
and Co., M‘Lean Bros', and Rigg, Tillock and Co ,
and D. Mitchell and Co.
APPY THOUGHT!
The
Strongest,
Handsomest,
Best-Finished,
and Most Serviceable
Christmas present
is, of course,
A AVATERBURY WATCH
Its Claim to Precedence
as the
MOST TRUSTWORTHY TIMEKEEPER
IN THE WORLD,
is established by
Tens of Thousands of Testimonials.
The Waterbury
is
THE WATCH FOR THE PEOPLE.
PRICE, 13s. Gd.
And in the event of accident
it can be
REPAIRED
At A COST NOT EXCEEDING 2s. Gd.
at the offices of
THE WATERBURY WATCH CO ,
54, MARGARET-STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Sydney evening paper which alleges
its circulation to be 4,000.000, is our authority f« r
(he statement that “Mount Lambie, at Rydal
(N.S.W.), is the highest mountain on the Western
line. It is 4-3,000 ft. high.”
The Salvationists have tome funny little
ways of their own. At Sing’eton (N.S.W.) a
member of this enterprising gang waits about the
pub. until somebody offers him a driok —an offer
which he invariably accepts. Then he fixes one
eye on the beer and the other on the main chance,
and indulges in a long prayer, in the course of
which he entreats that the vessel of wrath who
paid for his drink may retire from the consump-
tion of the hog wash which leadeth unto death,
and cease to make a fool of himself by hanging
around bars and talking to barmaids. By the time
he has got thus far a coolness has generally arisen
between the shouter and the shout.ee, and things
don’t seem to improve when the salvation man
flings the beer in the gutter, and retires after tell-
ing his new acquaintance that he is going to
Sheoh
The South Australian forces arc reported
to be demoralised. There are several of them,
and until recently they only had one sorrow—that
the Russians did not come to be smashed into
bloater-* aste, but now this joyful state of things
has passed away for ever. The fighting ass of
the Government was recently struck with the idea
that it might be advisable to have some summer
manoeuvres. Consequently, people were asked to
believe, in defiance of all common-sense, that an
enemy was landing 12 miles from the city, and the
troops marched down to repel them. The 12
miles “ cooked them ; the soldiers complain that
they should have been sent by rail, and according
to the Express “ they would haw: broken into re-
volt had it not been for their respect for the
officers,” while several of the latter intend resign-
ing, and “ others declare they will never turn out
for another field-day.” The tight-booted bank-
e’erks will see Adelaide looted before they will
fight again, and the cavalry, consisting of a jack-
ass perched on a horse, intend to do the next
campaign in a hansom cab at half-a-crowu an
hour, and debit the Treasury with wear and tear
of the hired moke.
AN AFTER-DINNER HEADACHE
Is unpleasant, and to a > usmess man uni rofhable. Usually
the stomach ij the cause. One dose of Dr. Bell's Bitters, 15
or 20 minutes after eating will stop such a headache, and do
you good. This is worth remembering.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney's Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronioed by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine ! Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
“So, Mr Palette, you can guarantee a satisfac-
tory picture of my wife ?” “ Ves, Mr. Podsnap, I
can paint a speaking likeness of her. ’ A speaking
likeness ! My dear sir if you want the picture to
suit me, you will do no such thing.” But Mrs.
Podsnap is a wisr and economical lady, whose
boys are ever neat and tidy in their strong, well-
ma le half-a-guinea Suits, purchased fi om Summer-
field and Company, the groat juvenile outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
A Newcastle paper Fays: “Whenever you
scratch the back of a so-called. ‘lndependent
Democrat,’ you’ll be sure to make a Radical kick.”
Certainly ; and the man who goes about scratch-
ing backs for a living must expeot to be kicked,
unless he tells his neighbors that the trousers to
order for 16s. 6d , out in the highest fashion and
made from the best wool tweeds, are made by
Summerfleld and Company, merchant tailors. 235
and 237 Pitt-Mreet, Sydney, who send post free on
application patterns and fashion book to country
residents.
WILLIAM BEACH.
“The Champion Sculler's Opinion.”—Messrs.
Butcher, Fehon, and Co., 111, Pitt-street. Dear
sim,—l used your St, Louis Lager Beer during my
training for the late conte.t with Mr. Edward
tlanlan, and think it the mast refreshing drink I
have ever tasted. It does not effect the head or
make me sleepy, as a great many other beers
would do. I should advise every man who is go-
ing to train for a hard contest to drink the
Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager Beer. —(Signed)
Yours truly, Wm. Beach.—
A Coincidence worth Noting. —On referring
to the Army Medical Reports, it will be found
that the principal miasmatic diseases prevailing in
Victoria are identical with those which prevail in
India, where Freeman’s Chlorodyne was introduced
in 1850. Used throughout the whole of the
Indian Empire with unexampled success since that
period in the treatment and cure of Fevar, Rheu-
matism, Sore Throat, Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Con-
tinued Fever and many other Diseases, it is easy
to understand why the Colonists of Victoria en-
tertain such a highly favourable opinion of it, and
regard Freeman’;:! Chlorodyne as the mo?t valuable
household remedy extant for the treatment of the
above indigenous maladies. In India 150 agencies
are established. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ”
only. Trade mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from
all chemists and storekeepers.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rosms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60} Hunter-street
Sydney.*
There are some troubles that even religion fails
to allay with comforting ministry. When a man
goes to church on a hot morning wearing a collar
a size smaller than the neck of his shirt, it’s no
earthly use for the parson to talk about heaven to
him when he feels that neck break out of its re-
servation in a new bugle a 3 fast as he tucks an old
one under, and he cannot even show to advantage
his beautiful fitting three-guinea suit to measure
made by Summeriield and Company, merchant
tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
/>/< - /SBi
mi \
mlm
a
The Autophonc is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and execute's
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pm ts of mo3t difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular song j , &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. 83" It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
The Oriental Gold. Go. having, after close
and long investigation, satisfied itself that the
Elgin is the best Watch in the world, and the
best value in all grades, has taken this line as a
specialty, and will henceforth handle no other
watch. This Company will post a sample Wateh
of any grade or price to any address in the
colonies on its usual liberal terms. A week’s trial
allowed. If not satisfied return the Watch un-
injured, and the money will be restored, less
postages. Not many quotations can be given this
week, biit no one can go wrong in seizing this
single chance.
In accordance with our promise we give a priced
list of Elgin Watches this week. We wish to re
mark, in ihe first place, that there is not a cheap-
jack Watch among them. The name of the Elgin
Company is on every one of the million watches
it has turned out, a direct guarantee and responsi-
bility.
S,WEach Watch is an advertising agent for the
Company. A genuine good article at a reasonable
price.
Observe that we sell no silvercased Watch at a
less figure than Three Pounds. We can’t do it.
The movement, commonly called the works, is too
good to permit of it. If wo were dealing in
Brummagem Watches, made in the Weat of
England, and sold to any dealer who chose to clap
his name on them, we could sell a sort of thing for
half the money, and the biggest part of the drst
cost would be the silver of the case.
Renumber, each and every Watch manufac-
tured by the Elgin Watch Co. is a Patent Lever, ■
with Compensating Balance. Wesell nohorizonta
or other inferior movements.
If Three Pounds is more than you can afford,
we meet you by reducing the price of the case—we
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Thus, then, our cheapest line, and we guarantee
it as good as any English Lever you can get any-
where for seven guineas, is :
Gentleman’s Elgin Patent Lever Key-
winder with 7 jewels, patent
safety pinion compensating balance
in patent dust-band case of ore-
silver, crystal-plate open face £2 0 0
Gentleman’s ditto, ditto, in hunting
case £2 10 0
&3T Note —The Elgin National Watch Co. states :
—“ Ore-silver is a new white metal, manufactured
and controlled by ourselves exclusively. These
cases are, to all appearances and in weaning
qualities, the equal of silver.
Elgin National WatchCo.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-halance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, &c, ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-ease ... ... 315 0
INTERCHANGEABLE SERIES.
£3F All the movements of the Watches in this
series are interchangeable both as regards cases
and parts with any other of our cases. Gold or
Silver,
Elgin N. Watch Co.’s Interchangeable
Three-quarter-plate, keyless solid
silver dust-band Mien face case,
Patent Lever Watcsh, two pairs line
ruby jewels, patent pinion, com-
pensating balance, &c. 4 0 0
Same watch —hunting ease 4 10 0
Interchangeable Patent Lever, Elgin N.
W. Co.’s, three-quarter plate stem
winding keyless, three-quarter plate,
patent pinion, compensating ba-
lance, S pairs extra jewels, and pa-
tent regulator, in solid silver patent
dust-band open face case ... ... 5 5 0
Same watch —hunting case 5 15 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-oased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
Prices of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Gold Watehea
in a future advertisement.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD GO,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by poet.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
mmmbmcd,
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
Graramm
2 7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
HEATRE ROYAL.
THE EISTORIAN TRIUMPH OF ’75
repeated by
THE MAJERONIS in 1886.
GREAT and CROWNING SUCCESS
of
The Eminent and Distinguished Artistes
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI,
in the great historical drama
ELIZABETH )
ELIZABETH V
ELIZABETH J
QUEEN
of
ENGLAND.
r ELIZABETH
- ELIZABETH
t ELIZABETH
Supported by their powerful and complete
Dramatic Company.
Prices as usual.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
Alhambra music hali
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smitf
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipi
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dane
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stall
1?. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evenin
at 7.39.
Academy of music
Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful oompany o
London Speciality Artists.
Academy of Music, Sydney, To Let at the con
elusion of Mr. Rickard’s Season.
Academy of Music, Launcesten, To Let fron
Monday, January 10, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuar
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron," “A Mad Marriage," “Th
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,
‘ Much Ado About Nothing,” “ As You Uke It,’
See., See.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“A RING OF IRON.”
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI
BITION.
Steam and Klectro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Grajhoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables
Children’s Com er for Games and Puzzles, Mec'-' an ical Figures
the Peacock's Parade, the Firemen Resc'.ing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engrarsr at Work etching on glass, Curias, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, Under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING: CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
Lynch family bellringers.
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Victoria Theatre, Maitland, Monday and Tuesday,
29th and 30th Nov.
School of Arts, Raymond Terrace, Wed., Dec. 1.
School of Arts, Clarence Town, Thurs.. Dec. 2.
School of Arts, Dungog, Frid. and Sat , Dec. 3 and 4.
Stroud, Copeland, Taree, &c., to follow.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
HUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
64? KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apjly to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Bailway—Section 2.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction o
the Second Section of the Cairns and Ilerber
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, -ections, Drawings
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commis doner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail
way,” must be deposited at the Office of the Com
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the It day of January, 1857.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
Uiulcr the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCOISriST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
eannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING ! BEDDING ! BEDDING !
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLERS.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang ’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler's.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 008 George-street, Sydney,
THOUSANDS~OF PEOPLE HAVE” TRIED
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
an*
The best medi
cine for reliev-
in g coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. See. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY,
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 23, 1886.
lENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS arc invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. Fer full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can he received
at this office.
Construction of Bridge in Ap-
proach to Mehi River Bridge
at Moree
Construction of Covered service
Reservoir, Minmi
Construction of Bridge over Yan-
ko Creek —road Yamma to
Colon,bo Railway Station
Construction of Over-bridge,
Guinea-street, Albury
Construction of Bridge over
Mandurama Creek at Mandu-
rama Ponds
Construction of Lincoln-crescent
Storm-water Drain —Contract
No. 20Sydney Sewerage Works
Construction of Bridge over
Creek between East and West
Burrowa
Supply and delivery of Billet
Wood, Great Southern, Wes-
tern, and Richmond Railways,
during 1887
Tuesday,
November 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction and Erection of
Wrought Iron Elevated Ser-
vice Tank at Newcastle, con-
tract 11), Hunter River Dis-
trict Water Supply
Supply of Cedar, Great Northern
Railway, during 1887
Erection of Station Buildings at
Mandurama and Lyndhurst,
Railway Blayney to Cowra
Erection of Waiting Sheds at
Monteagle and Koorawatha—
Section 2 Murrumburrah-
Blayney Railway
Construction of Bridge, Dara-
waiik Creek-road, Taree, to
North Forster
Construction of Bridge, Tilbuster
Creek-road, Armidale to
Puddle-dock
Supply of Ironmongery, Roads
Department, during 1887
Do. Ship Chandlery
Do. Brushware
Do. Tools
Tuesday,
December 7,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf at head
of Blackwattle Bay
Making new Cutting and Widen-
ing a portion of Yanko Cceek
Supply and Delivery of Billet
Wood, Great Northern Lines,
during 1887
Lease of Right to rdveitise in
North Shore Tramways, 3
years, Ist Jauuary, 1887
Ditto ditto ditto, Sydney, ditto
ditto ditto
Alteration, See., Telegraph De-
partment, General Dost Offhe
Supply ar.d Fit ting in Compound
Engine and Boiler, Steamer
“ Aiax.”
Tuesday,
December 14,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Court House and
Wardens’ Quarters, Silverton
Laying and Jointing aboiit Five
Miles Piping—Sydney Water
Supply
Erection of New Court House,
Hay
Tuesday,
December 21,
at 11 o’ctock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYXE.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
THE MEECAHTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 18G9).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
B > M. RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all binds of
confidential inquiries instituted.' Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fevsion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth
■lurnage. or death, obtained in any part of the world’
ixpnts flnd debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
N. w Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, be 'e in a pesition to conduct all inquiries with caution
,J i ■ uiti.n and strictest eecresy, and to faithfully and
o'-'Hit y attend to all business entrusted to h care
Flour I Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
rpHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
T. JONES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London).
Medicine, Pirfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI,
Piesrriptions Accurately Dispensed.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tig-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-streot only.


The English “Upper Ten.”
One alleged aspect of “high life above
stairs ” in England is that presented to us
by the anonymous patricians—“daughters
of powerful dukes ” and so on—who, out of
platonic friendship for Mr. Henniker Heaton,
M.P., condescend to write lengthy columns
of stale stories in the Sydney Evening
News and to furtively accept an occasional
modest guinea from the toil-worn digits of
the meek and lowly Mr. Alfred Bennett.
Here, however, is a little picture by the
well-known Adam Badeau, in which a section
of the lordly gingerbread is shown without
the gilding, under the title “ Patrician
Poverty ” : —
“ I once stayed at a palatial establishment
where a peer of ancient name was entertaining 10
guests. After dinner the company was scattered
in half-a-dozen drawing-rooms, and whenever, by
some chance, one of the apartments was left un-
occupied, the master went in and blew out the
candles for economy. At another house, as the
party broke up, the butler came to me and said
the family were leaving for a visit themselves ;
her ladyship knew I was a housekeeper, and re-
quested me to buy a fine large salmon, which
otherwise would be left on her hands; the fish
was perfectly fresh, and they would pack it nicely
for me. I ascertained that my hostess sanctioned
the huckstering, so I paid for the salmon, and my
own man carried it off in a hamper when I left for
the train. My cook declared that it was neither
so cheap nor so good as I could have purchased in
London.
“ Many of the nobility have lately resorted to
various devices for making a living. They become
chairmen of railway companies; they are inter-
ested in stocks ; they lend their names without
capital to business speculations, just as prominent
people do in America, for a consideration. A
brother of a duke and a member of Lord Beacons-
field’s Government was concerned in some city
enterprise that ended dishonourably, and obliged
to give up his place under the Government. About
the same time several others —commoners,
baronets, and honourables —became bankrupt and
resigned from the House of Commons. The Earl
of Winchilsea, the head of one of the oldest
families in England, was bankrupt for many years
and unable to take his place in the House of
Lords, for that assembly refuses to allow an ac-
knowledged bankrupt to sit in its Chamber.
“ But not many peers have the resource of
bankruptcy. The creditors of great aristocrats
are usually unable to attach the land, and must
content themselves with personal assets. Only a
year or two ago the Duke of Hamilton, the inti-
mate friend of the Prince of Wales, and sprung
himself from the noblest houses in Europe, as
nobility goes, was obliged to sell the inestimable
treasures of art and literature which his ancestors
had accumulated. The present Duke of Marl-
borough has disposed of the Blenheim collection,
which was almost a national monument. Every
now and then one of ihe peerage comes to grief
from gambling or mishaps on the Turf, or, still
worse, dissipation and extravagance. There are
eldest sons of earls who cannot live in England
without incurring risk of imprisonment on ac-
count of illegal entanglements.
“ This sort of poverty does not arouse the live-
liest commiseration, but the innocent suffer as
well as those who precipitate the storm. I
knew a nobleman of oldest family who came into
a great estate which was horribly embarassed by
the conduct of his predecessor. The new man
was unblemished in life and admirable in character.
By excellent business management, careful
economy, and downright hard labour ho brought
back the property to its pristine prosperity : but
his heir pledged it nearly all again in advance, by
post-obits and similar devices. The creditors,
however, were unable to break the entail, and the
great property remains for some future peer to re-
store and his successor to involve, if entail and
aristocracy continue.
“ The condition of the dowagers has always
seemed to me especially pitiable—the descent is so
tremendous from millions for an income to com-
parative indigence. They have once worn the
coronet and blazed with the family jewels, only to
hand them over to another; have been mistress some-
times of half-a-dozen mansions, only to be re
morselessly expelled from all, and glad at last to take
places in the household of the Queen for the sake
of the wages of a few hundreds a year, or else to
live in little houses in insignificant streets, and
keep no carriage. I knew a duchess, not now liv-
ing, who revelled in splendour part of her life, but
on the death of the duke she was reduced to £i 000
a year—not enough to cover half of what she
thought her necessary expenditure. The duchess,
however, then fell in with an American woman of
fortune, and the couple travelled together, the
duchess as the guest of the democrat. They were
fast friends, but appreciated each other’s advan-
tages. One night at a bail at the Mansion House,
when no Royalties were present, the duchess was
put upon the dais usually reserved for princely
personages, and the American was profoundly im-
pressed with this indication of City deference.
‘ How nice it must be to be a duchess ! ’ she ex-
claimed. ‘ Ah,’ said her Grace, ‘ but you are so
rich ! ’ ‘ Yes,’ replied the other candidly, ‘ you
have the rank, and I have the money and the
clothes.’
“ Another dowager, whose husband had been
called the wealthiest commoner in England, was
left £8000 a year, though he willed away millions.
A woman is a nobody in Englishmen’s eyes. The
husband had been fond of his wife, but it did not
occur to him to provide her with the state to
which she had been accustomed for a lifetime.
The daughters of great houses prepare for their
fate from the beginning. They never reign unless
they marry. If they cannot secure a husband,
they club together when the father dies, and keep
up e. little establishment in an obscure way ; or
the Queen gives some of them, out of charity,
rooms at Kensington Palace or Hampton Court,
or some other asylum for decayed aristocrats.
You will find there women of oldest lineage
pinched for their dinners and their gloves, whose
early lives were spent in the most sumptuous
structures and splendid style that this world
knows.
“ But the aristocrats are learning to take care
of themselves. I dined once with a duke, and
took in his daughter-in-law to table. I had not
known the lady before, and did not catch her
name, and I was amazed, after we sat down, to
hear her talk of the advantages of commerce as
an occupation for the sons of peers. She thought
the young men ought to try to eleVate commerce,
which meant they ought to go into business. Such
talk at ducal tables is rare, and was absolutely
inexplicable to me at the time. But I learned
afterwards that the lady’s husband was a younger
son, and had gone into ‘ commerce ’ like a man.
“ The peerage itself is reached by the rising
tide. Lady Waldegrave derived a large income
from her coal mines, and on her estates I have
often seen long trains of trucks heaped up with
coal, every truck labelled in large letters, ‘ Frances
Countess Waldegrave.’ For my part, I could not
see why the mining business is less ignoble than
the manufacturing ; but a lord is never a manu-
facturer, though the revenues of some of the
greatest peers are doubled from their mines. The
distinction is too fine for democratic eyes. A lord
may manage a theatre but not a hotel; he may
hire ballet girls and opera-singers, but never be a
publisher ; he may sell * coals,’ but not books. Of
late years, it is true, there have been earls who
owned hansom cabs for a spe u’ation, and others
who have started milk companies, and the milk
was delivered in London from carts that bore their
illustrious names. But these have been abnormal
cases. Usually they gloss over their connections
with business. They dabble in stocks, women as
well as men, and several peers are interested in
banks. Lady Burdett-Coutts is a member of the
great banking-house that bears her name ; and
none are too proud to receive the results of trade.
Half, at least, of the present peerage are con-
nected with persons who have been engaged in
business w'ithin a century. The Ashburtons, the
Northbrooks, the St. Albans, the Longfords, the
Newcastles, and a hundred others are descended
from tradesmen within that period; but mer-
chants may not go to Court.”
Everybody \
SHOULD USE/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest andmostapproved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Gkorge-strket, Sydney.
LADIES OF SYDNEY.
TT behoves every thrifty housewife to
look to the future, in order if pos-
sible to
SAVE MONEY.
It is a well-known fact that a large in-
crease has occurred in the price of wool at
home, and it is only to be expected that
prices of Woollen Goods will be higher
next winter than they are this ; so that if
any of you will be requiring
NEW BLANKETS
next winter, how much better to buy them
now, and save the inevitable increase in
price.
Those who have bought blankets from
this winter know what excellent value we
have been giving, and we feel sure that if
you do so also you will never regret it.
OUR PRICES ARE—
4s. lid., ss. Gd., 6s. 6d., 7s. lid,, Bs. 6d.,
10s. 6d., 12s. Gd., 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
18s. Gd., 205., 255., 305., and
up to 50s. a paii l .
HORDERN BROTHERS
(HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET),
211 PITT STREET.
Newest Invention’— Greatest Novelty.
THE
PATENT
DIAGONAL SEAM
COESET.
Patented in England and on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Foiiei says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and_becoming, and may be adapted to any flgurewith advantage.
nternational Exhibition, 1884 , ~ , .
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
n
PROVIDENCE
Heine thorn who help themselvea. Nature hae provided
herM tor the oure ot human ailments, and medical
loitno* has discovered their healing powers, and the
■roper oombinations necessary to conquer disease.
The result of these discoveries and oombinations is—
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in severe cases of
Kidney and Iivor Diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, In-
digestion, Weakness, Lassitude, &c., and invariably it
has given relist and cure. Thousands of testimonials
hare tees given, and is most popular where best
known.
daily and hourly events.
Meodaehe.—' The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
and settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bittern
Indigestion.— Start the Secretions of the Stomach
with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jaundice.— Blood poisoned by Bile. Current the
liver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
X«ir of Appetite.—The Stomach Is failing. First
iteanselt; then tone with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Torpidity. —Inaction of Liver. Start it up with
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Xautea.— Reaction of Bile. Correct Stomaoh and
Uver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jfolwid.—-Poison in the Blood. Purity by starting
Mm liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jf ervouoneaai— Deranged Stomach Function. Oor>
root and tone with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Wight Sweats.— Weakness. Strengthen and tons
the system with Dr, Bell’s Bitters.
Not*.— Any poor Person, or the Manager ot any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s,Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agente, accompanied by a certificate, of a Minister
Of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
ter medicine,
BELL'S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
V1V YORK, LOXBOif, CAXADA,
KIW SBALAHD * AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
Aamrrs roa
Vaw ■—Wales and Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES'.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly low Price of 165 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING -ROOM
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co. y
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
gsd
Tfe*
y
MANUFACTURERS
$ IMPORTERS OF
HATS "caps
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
typos ite LassetCers
/
or
w-'
IF 1 IE 3SJ" IN" IE 11, L "X - ’ S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street. ■
W. GAELING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Livery business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
ffi
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A R E
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
„ and CO.’S
Cognac.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day In Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. LFor
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT-STREET, and 338 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund ~, 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
ttttoughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT &. Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and. are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition m the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince ana
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments m
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
books, books, book®.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
O K AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
4 t) UUv Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
book ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
WQmtQMQffiM
mm
m
fgs
dfg
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced, fllzc) of ,£1 Order to be found in the
‘LARGE BOTTLES” OE WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


RAW VASELINE.
m
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YOEK ST., SYDNEY.
\V-
-Il*s-* 5 -
sdf
c < fit
A* » A
T. T. FODEN & CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
m
gsd
Wholesale manufacture
CONFECTIONER
4ZoOtvrae «#\
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent $ t near Erskine S!
om- 4)a**o, omO
TO Oft OS fit OH SHORT £ST ffOTfCe .
Couhthy * Smrnnc mtffm
i§
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
UJSa.3CQQGQQ_<
OR
!ASTHMA ü BRONCHITI S, COUCHS
• PREPARED ONLV BY
ftto ma s Ingham „-r
•g-HR O C K H A M P TON. P,
fg
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fiagiance.
Three Gold Medals
PA UIS, lb 78; CALC UTTA, 138],
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE I YLANG YLANG
STEPHANOTIS I OPAPaNAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lort‘l.<drdolightfulaad lasting&dour
Atkinson's celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
2], Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark— “ White ltose" on“ Golden
1.,-re.”
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
K. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J, V. WARHEAM,_Manager,
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS,
BEDSTEADS -A. IST ID ZB IE ID ID I UNTO-.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
MO'
y
3fl
s\\>
■o o r>
IT
SS
PI
ig
■
' fe,A
'Me
r-b
OR
p /?T3
r*
..^vvv-
i ( • /__'
cyi'O* -'ft
m
~r<.l> r~
yy
■'•> : Or
o ~V- ’ r\” ' '
, KK
I'l
_ R
To;;"".
i<J
J
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 CASTLEREAGH
STREET,
nsr he .a. ir,
HUNTEE S T IR. E E T.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and OAFS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
jt.lANl) FACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
yr* rroi
KScrt
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
*OM 6j SHOE EBLEfIS. BUGCEB
m
3?
S' Sa*®>P;
Hi
■V.- ..
vxrasa EZHI
BOSTON.
VIENNA,
SL9 lELUHI
Peerless
Gloss.
I ie:sssltj h mrs
fcafijf. ttL'aebtzi
polishes Ladies' isd
Gliidrea’s Bests*
Sloss, id
Satshsls, fits eat
fcras&lsf, 4lsaj#
gSr:s sai!sfast!si.
b C£"*£-f»j Is t 3
Ills‘THE STMIttSa."
C. L. HAUTMAWAY & SONS*
SSI 6 833 Ceßfren §tre®i Be&tm
MASS., F.S.A
UMBR
l LAS
RECOVERED.
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
WJ O H N S O N,
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES,
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maroaret-street, Wynward square, Sydney
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
NEBV
BRA if A
TREATMTNT
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Bits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use ofalcohol ortobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes t-' cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
Issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. Tor sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & C 0.,.
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
S'of e Tlirdat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
A D j E
Y,
NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
f L
L- '
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionable Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb. 9
-
sdfg
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMIORTERS of PIANOFORTES
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
by the MOST
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY NEWTON
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
sdf
w
ALN U T FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locke
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIi FONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
n.
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’ onnell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gsd
TCB chests,
all sizes,
From 275.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
fg
I7IXCELSIOR UPRIGHT
li IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS, -
various sizes,
From (ss.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
sdf
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates-!
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
gsdf
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs
P-ice, from 14s. each.
BRADLRY, NEWTON and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Hosses, from 10s. Gd.j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


Boot-Heels and Lilies.
It was not all poetry and holy joy at the unveiling
of the memorial to Henry Kendall, the Australian
poet, in Waverley cemetery last Saturday after-
noon. Mr. Dailey, the orator of the day, made a
feeling, even if rather laboured speech, and H.E.
Lord Carington and her ladyship were present.
There was a tolerably large attendance, and as
admission to the cemetery was by ticket only, the
crow r d was “select.” One fact, however, painfully
obtruded itself on the disinterested spectator —
that the very large majority had gone to the
cemetery not thinking of the dead Kendall, but of
the live lord and his wife who, in the stereotyped
words of the conventionalist, “ graced the pro-
ceedings.” It seems that in death as in life
44 some must sink that others swim,” for
it happened that those who indecently crushed
forward to stare at Lord and Lady Carirg-
ton so trampled down the mound which
covered the newly-interred clay of another
literary man, Theodore Emile Argles, the well-
remembered “ Pilgrim,” that the dead man’s
widow, who, with her little son, was present, is
now not certain as to the exact spot in which the
remains of her husband rest. So much for one
part of the affair. Lord and Lady Carington are,
of course, just about the last persons under
heaven who would wittingly stand by while a
man’s grave was stamped upon in the presence of
his widow, and The Bulletin is sure that they
must have felt deeply humiliated and affronted at
the senile exuberance which on ground sanctified
by the presence of the dead caused Sir John
Robertson to call for “ Three cheers for Lord and
Lady Carington and the little Caringtons!”—just as
if God's Acre had been the Exchange Hotel and the
occasion the last stage of a political gorge instead
of a solemn meeting in a place which, by men and
women in general, is regarded with reverence. In
the name of all that is manly and womanly, why
Editor Ward and Johnny Crapaud.
“We can hardly doubt that ...... permanent possession is resolved upon by the French ...... If any doubt could exist, it would be removed
by the recent speech of the French Premier at Toulouse in which he declared that ...... a nation which abandons Joses rank. Well, be it so ....
For the time we can only remember and wait.” —Sydney D. T.
EDITOR WARD (loq.): “WELL, JOHNNY, I CAN’T REACH YOU JUST NOW, BUT BY-AND-BYE I’LL MAKE YOU SIT UP.”
should one gravebe jumped upon, whilelilies are be-
ing laid upon another —and why should these dis-
plays of sickly grovel be forced under our disgusted
noses as we bare our heads at the last resting-
place of those whom we really wish to honour ?
Salomons and the Judges.
“ History Repeats Itself.” —(Numbers xv.)
1. Now, it came to pass in those days, when
Salomons w r as raised to the chief place, the Judges
were very wroth, and gathered themselves to-
gether against the Ministry, and said unto them :
“ Ye take too much upon you, seeing that we are
holy men, every one of us, and the Lord is among
us, wherefore lift ye up Salomons above the con-
gregation of the Lord ? ”
2. And when the Ministry heard it they fell
upon their faces.
3. And they spake unto the Judge and said :
“Hear, we pray you, ye sons of Levi. Seemeth it
but a small thing unto you that the Lord hath
raised the chosen one of the children of Israel to
be chief over you. Seek ye the chieftainship
also -” ~ ,
4. For which cause all the company are gathered
together against the Lord ; and what is Salomons
that ye murmur against him ?
5. And the Ministry were very wroth and said
unto the Lord : “ I have not taken one, ass from
them, neither have I hurt one of them.”
We are told that Mr. Henniker Heaton s
dinner at the House of Commons to the Australian
Eleven didn’t take. Only three knights of the
vs icket entered appearance, who, after being in-
dulged with a pipe on the balcony, were permitted
to listen to a very dull debate in the House. Puts
us in mind of the orthodox professorial supper at
our alma mater. We used to turn up in high
glee expecting no end of hand-squeezing, &c.,
with the professor’s charming daughters, but the
old boy took us to the back-yard for a couple of
hours and treated us to a lecture on the moon,
with the aid of a telescope.
Mr. John Farrell’s long-expected volume
of verse is now almost ready for issue. A few
days more and proof copies will be distributed.
Its success is assured, if only by the fact of the
extreme popularity attained by that well-known
poem, “ How He Died,” which in England was
widely reprinted aa the “ best and most Australian
of Kendalls pieces.” Mr. G. S. Titheradge made
a hit in Australia some time ago by using it as a
recitation.
The lately defunct Sydney Club, which
while it lived was familiarly known to its mem
bers as the “Hash House,” is about to be resur
rected under another name. It w 7 ill probably be
called “ the Phoenix” as having arisen from its
own hashes.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —Looking over the
last disbursements of the Ly-ee-moon Wreck Fund
Committee, one’s attention is draw r n to what ap-
pears the niggardly allow ance to the poorer be-
reaved sufferers and the handsome allowances to
others, and very handsome present—or salary—to
the so-called honorary secretary. It would be
more satisfactory to the subscribers if the whole
of the disbursements were published in full. Why
are these secretaries advertised as “ honorary ”
secretaries ? Is it not deceiving the subscribers
who are willing to give to deserving cases, such as
the above, but not to honorary secretaries who
get out of the funds at the rate of about £4OO a
year?— Granville.
A side-light on Texas journalism : —“The
proprietor of the Sunken Valley Daily Record re-
grets to have to announco to his subscribers that the
paper will not be issued to-day, owing to the
sudden decease of the editor, Mr. E. J. L. Coker.
Mr. Coker was sitting in his office yesterday,
engaged in his editorial duties, when Colonel
Ralph Mac Gee suddenly burst into his room, and
addressing Mr. Coker as ‘ You piebald dogwal-
loper,’ demanded to know what he meant by
alluding to him (Colonel Mac Gee) as ‘a whisky-
absorbing, poison-purveying importation from
Dublin’ in last Friday’s issue of the Record.
Without giving Mr, Coker time to reply he fired
four shots at him from his six-shooter, the last of
which struck Mr. Coker in the mouth, killing him
instantly.' Under ordinary circumstances the
proprietor would have no hesitation in characteriz-
ing this as a dastardly and unprovoked outrage on
a defenceless man; but as Colonel Mac Gee has
since called at the Record office and, in the hand-
somest manner possible offered ‘ to serve any
dogerned paper-spoiler on the staff in the same
way,’ he feels loth to criticise too harshly the rash
act of a man evidently labouring under a strong
sense of injury. The proprietor has arranged
with a gentleman (16st. 41b. from ‘down East’)
who will in future undertake the editorship of the
Record and who hopes, by a moderate but firm
use of the revolver, to cement and bind those
bonds of mutual respect and esteem which have so
long existed between the Record and its subscri-
bers. The charge for announcing births,marriages,
and shooting parties remain as heretofore.”
The Rev. James Mackie, a whooping
Scotch pastor with burning-eyes and a fierce
goatee, has got out on bail. The Rev. James
is shepherd to a fashionable Presbyterian flock in
Manchester (Eng.), and some time ago he ex-
pressed an opinion that the financial wether was
embezzling the offertory —an accusation which
seems to have aroused a good deal of ill-feeling.
Still, there was no open disturbance until a recent
Sunday morning, when to the horror of his fol-
lowers, the preaching apostle seized the offertory
and with a laugh like that of a hungry hyena he
skimmed up the aisle with the coin and dis-
appeared into the vestry. The treasurer skimmed
after him promptly and grabbed the plate by the
side where the copper was, the pastor hanging on
to the other side where there was a lot of silver.
The clergyman, however, proved the stronger of
the two, and as he threatened to pound the
treasurer “till he’d have to be carried out,”
the latter thought it better to withdraw, leaving
the Rev. James in possession of the cash. But at
the evening service there arose another unseemly
cackle, and again the outraged congregation saw
their spiritual guide flying through the church,
with the specie payments, and heard him cacchin-
ating in the vestry over the spoil. The treasurer
and two elders again went in to expostulate, but
the pastor produced a butcher’s steel, and cleaned
out the promises after gashing an alleged Christian
on the forehead, whereupon he was run in. And,
by the way, there seems to be something loose
about the religious views of Miss Fanny Vaudrey
also of Manchester. She is an orphan of inde-
pendent means, and was brought up by hand,
which may account for a good many things, but
even this does not iustify her conduct in church
recently when the clergyman read that “ All men
are liars,” and she rapped violently on the floor
with her umbrella and in a loud voice said that
them was her sentiments.
Paris Figaro’s ghastly tale, lately referred
to in these columns, about the New Caledonian
convict “ whose head continued to chew tobacco
after its severance from the body,” recalls the
story told of Dr. De La Pommerais, a poisoner of
the Palmer type, who was guillotined in France
in 1864. He was a skilled physician, and on the
night before his execution he was visited by the
celebrated surgeon Valpeau, who in the coolest
manner possible informed De La Pommerais that
he called to see him in the interest of physio-
logical science, solely. “ I need not tell you, sir,”
observed this remarkably cheerful visitor, “ that
one of the most interesting questions in connection
with this science is whether any ray of memory
or sensibility survives in the brain of a man after
his head is severed from his body. Now, you are
to die to-morrow ; nothing can save you. Will
you not, therefore, utilise your death in the
interest of science ?” De La Pommerais’ profes-
sional interest ultimately mastered' indignation,
physical fear, and every other feeling, and he replied
“ Yes, my friend, I will.” “ Very good,” said the
practical physiologist; ‘ ‘ now, when the knife
falls, I shall be standing at your side, and your
head will at once pass from the executioner’s
hands to mine. I will then cry distinctly into
your ear, ‘ Count de la Pommerais, can you at
this moment thrice lower the lid of your right eye
while the left remains open?’ ” This was agreed
to, and the next morning, when Valpeau reached
the condemned cell, he found the doomed man
practising the sign agreed upon. A few moments
later the guillotine had done its work, the head
was in Valpeau’s hand, and the question put.
Familiar as the great surgeon was with horrible
scenes, he was almost frozen with terror as he saw
the right eyelid fall, while the other eye looked
fixedly at him. “ Again!” shouted Valpeau, fran
tically. And the lids moved, but they did not
part. It was all over with the obliging subject
of this ghastly experiment. But the affair proved
that the cessation of sensibility is not instantaneous
with the fall of the knife.
The Sydney Sunday News, organ of
Bailey’s “ Neo-Liberal Party,” gave,
in all seriousness, a uniquely funny account —
evidently intended by Bailey to be impressive and
dignified—of the interview between H. E. and the
Neo-Liberal deputationists who asked Lord Caring-
ton to gubernatorially cut his own carotid by
dissolving Parliament in the interests of the
Freetrade and Escaped Nun howlers. From the
wonderful article under notice it would appear
that the Neo-Liberal party has in its platform three
planks, each consisting of grovel. But let Bailey
proceed. After characterising this laboriously
fixed-up procession of cast-iron cheek as “ one of
the most important,” &e., “yet chronicled in the
history of the British Empire,” the man with the
eyeglass says :
“ At half-past 10 the gentlemen forming the deputation to
the Governor assembled at Government House gates, and,
headed by Mr. Fraser Martin, proceeded to the Vice-Regal
Palace” —(“Palace,” especially with a capital “P,” is excel-
lently Imperial in tone ”l— “on reaching which they were
received most courteously by Lord Carington’s aide-de-camp,
and shown into the large drawing-room, where they were
accommodated with seats placed in a large semi-circle. Never
before had such an assemblage of true representative m n
congregated in that room—all having the stamp of thorough
earnestness in their countenances, and giving every evidence
of their desire to approach the representative of the Sovereign
in a constitutional manner to redress their wrongs. After
the gentlemen had seated themselves, Lord Caiington, who
was attended by Captain Sherilfe arid Mr. E. W. Wallington,
asked Mr. Fraser Martin to introduce him to each member
of the deputation, and then followed such hearty shaxes at
the hand with all present that they felt themselves at homo
with one who was with them in heart, and whose earnest
desire was to give prosperity to the country and earn the lov»
of his subjects ! The Governor welcomed all most eordially
to Government House, and nothing could exceed the cour-
teous manner in which he spoke to each member of the
deputation.”
The Neo-Liberal man, utterly insensible to the
keen sarcasm which prompted His Excellency to
arrange the Calico Jimmies and their hangers-on in
a half-moon, wormily wriggles thusly :
“ Mr. Alfred Allen then, in one of the happiest speeches
we have ever heard him deliver, explained to His Bxcellency
in most respectful language, that the agitation was no party
one, and that the gentlemen present were of a most represen •
tative character, bringing to their beloved Governor's feet
petitions for the redress of what they considered a terrible
injury to them and their adopted country. During Mr.
Allen’s delivery the Governor paid marked attention to his
address, and literally swallowed every word ha uttered.”
The fine aroma of boot-licking which hangs about
the 44 respectful language” and the 44 beloved
Governor’s feet” is simply immense, and, in the
matter of congealed impudence it would be hard
to find a parallel to the patronising style in which
this little band of British importers and religious
bigots speak of Australia as their “ adopted ”
country. If, as alleged, Lord Carington “swal-
lowed every word uttered by Mr. Alfred Allen,”
he must be very ill indeed. But this ought to
make him well again :
“During his Excellency’s statesmanlike exposition of the
gravity of the situation the deepest attention was paid to
the address of such a ‘Chatham,’ and at its conclusion the
listeners burst into a frenzy of applause, which lasted for
some minutes. The deputation then withdrew, and, on
reaching the porch, they en manse sent up three ringing
cheers for Lord Carington. His Excellency, who had retired
to his study, hearing the cheers, hastily proceeded to the
hall, and he was again received by hearty cheers, after
which the Governor called for three cheers for the Queen ;
and then Lady Caiington, attracted by the novelty, made
her appearance, and on being led forth by her husband the
delegates received her in such a manner that the genial lady’s
up in one of her happiest styles ; and
with these salutations concluded one of the most marked
events in the poltical history of New Seuth Wales.”
“ Such a Chatham ! ” This is the kind of thing
which, when read by persons of the Sir Robert
Fowler stamp—Robert is now a guest at
Government House, Sydney—make them think
that Australia yearns for the establishment of a
Hereditary Aristocracy. How one’s boot-toe
itches!
Among the social items of the week i
the marriage of Mr. T. M. Slattery, Chairman o
Committees in the N.S.W. Assembly. The cere
mony was performed at St. Mary’s Cathedral
Cardinal Moran, in full canonicals, officiating.
The bride was Miss Agnes O’Connor, and accord-
ing to the Evening News a special dispen
satien had been obtained from Rome to
enable Mr. Slattery to marry his deceased wife’s
sister. This, however, can hardly have been the
case, as high authority asserts that there is no
canon of the R.C. Church in existence to prohibit
or restrain the parties from such a marriage.
Even without the pronunciamento of competent
authority we should have had no hesitation in be-
lieving the News to be utterly wrong in its state-
I ment. For that journal is built that way.


pEMYO)
SALICYL
t jIii exquisite
axhvuu)
BY TH£ PROPR!E TOR,
*«•
t&n
JJSFd HlOOl
tlf/finf/iLED EOlf /TS/Ze/SEPTIO
/\rto CLEA/si/G PROPERTIES.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
~ * 134 William ST, S YDNEY
OOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
' Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
SIOH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE,
KRUSES
ALL NOXIOUS
FLEAS FU ES. BEETLES MOSQU1TOES
COCKROACHES.** 0 ** 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
'FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
gs
9
ip
of
d
A^SOID
“'iNTINS
FELTON-CRIMWADEV.C®
— MELBOURNE —
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
jUDSOiv^
INDESTRUCTIBLE
MARKING INK
»*K:- AOK
6d. and 1/- y. _ottle,
i ABSOLUTELY INDELIBLE.
WILL NOT INJURE THE FINEST FABRICS.
NO HEAT REQUIRED.
old dy Drapers, Chemists, Stationers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENRY LANCASTER,
dfg
MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
oe England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, vrooi-
vrashers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheer-folly given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station
ORGANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOE THE
“SMITH.
J 5
BRUCE & MASSEY,
IFI-A-InTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Graham s pills,
*HS GREAT LITER REMEDY,
Dandelion, and free from the
th 6 ® ai 'ticle of mercury or mineral substance,
. Popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
yet most effectivethey can be
5 nj y recommended, beiiy? a carefully pre-
Paration > an( t the reshlt of practical ex-
They overcome the worst form of
v °‘ the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
■ r Kid if, - to hear that they have not afforded
la, te relief.
i8i GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'4
TONIC NERVIN
M
_NIC NERVINI
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE. for j
and General Debility, and all complaints that sprir
f nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervi
®tion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Li
y Oomplainta, General Prostration, Impoverish!;
,ture Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By
- r - -oothing effects it at once removes all craving i
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerl
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE n. .1
ishes and gives vigor to the whole system. Price
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL B-ROTF
N.8.W.; London, Dn?.
no substituti
V
AND QHU3f
©®TAme0 a
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
r*s?£
- a
IV'
•TO
SMI
» .
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT ®
w
GH
S
NTE R(s AT! ON A L
•vr
HANUfACTUREO BYjAMES CHANMON
€* B***•«* S T SroMiY f
S«l4 by Ail Grocers sad Storekeepers
r.
5.
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
r,y- t
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hale, Sydney.
t@T Country" Orders receive prompt attention, *fs3i
ARTHUR MARTIN Si COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
AS
Agents for New South Wales
11.1. M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS,
506, 507, 507£ GEORGE STREET,
MS’ Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Aetna Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachcu Comfits, in 3d. hexes
Yoiee Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in £ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Not®.—Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
PAPEBHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILTERER, BEYELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Bokthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydnby.
m
*
iM
- ' -t
:r >: -is.
%
<Ai*U
•• .' -■ -J
iiT/
••••'>
&
fill
It’s just too sweet: for anything, I’ve got, him as he ran,
And the plate is quite as good as if taken by a man ;
Thanks to Liehner’s Ladies’ Cameras, there’s an end to all our woes,
W'e needn’t soil our Angers, and we oan’fc destroy our clothes. *
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including aS requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be had at
prices to suit all requirements.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS, 7
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 36 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
Send fior Catalogue. TBS
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS &~ROBERTSON
I*® HAKKBST MUHIN', SYDNEY. *
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Psiee of any book on application. [Books sent bv
mafl to any part of Australia. *


ARLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <fcc.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN ” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, See.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaNIT9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL! MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. IF’a-sr <2z> Co., Cira.cixa.n.a.ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines'
and Spirits, personally selected.by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OP ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
£2T A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Pienic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Gases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3. Bottles WHISKY
l Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
, • Total 18.
7 Bottles LOWNDRS' RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Ibe articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and hare given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order pavable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P. E, LAEKIH, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WAULACH BROS
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDN SY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUaffRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRI NS SAUCE
sauce
-■■■■ 2
Tn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottU
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
Ask fo? LEA and PER KINS * Sauce , and see .Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
MlackwM, E&ndon , (sr'c., <5rV. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World*
Wholesale Agents : Montbfiob*, Joseph & Co.; David Cohbn & Co., Sydney.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S 3
AND IMPORTER OF fi. .3»HB dJi-s '
Ladies* English and Foreign Boots “andjShoeSj
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THEBBFST'HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARES.
C _A_ L Hi .A. T
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace,
Where you can get
i fof IC/®>
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to your measure A
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Fit Guaranteed.
flaH
SST PATTERN AND MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST.
722 Geo roe-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music
PERT)RIAU A 00.,
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
18 ERSKINE STREET’
RW GARDEN HOSE, ALL SIZES AND LENGTHS, “lil
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general P ur P°
igeS*
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
&
s.
&
sdfgsdfgsdfg
Shoe PaZAMj
Georjfe
late PeaJe etncL Sarecurb,
QFFQRD & CO.*S HA'
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STB 8 * 1 '
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is. — mak3S two
lauarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linetus, for ’coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold* in the
gums, Is. wi m ti: w , yj
Dr. Barbarossa’s < 'antharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
APPLY FORJLIST, AND^SAVEjMONKY.
WASHINGTON H.’ SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OP KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
Ented at Rates never before attempted in this
ony.
American Geld and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
unt Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
Btre opposite George- street.
’£
Try POJONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the'Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
fTtHE FRESH FOOD AND ICE '■A'
JL (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AR
whore they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa,
light refreshments.
CM 111,
At this Branch, orders may be left f® r
by their carts.
They have also take”' over the V^ 0 "
“ KOUMISS." so highly
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO.,
Head Offlee 21 Harbo^i).
Stables Liverpool
Factory MittagOW^/
Guinness’ Extra
FIRST qUALI
V*
BASS’ PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to^£f t**’
colonial v\d imha.v t:* 111
LONDON, I
By Special Appoiß tm®» ' ji^
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH v n 1 1 .
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON
Onuumial (,'hamlierx,
FRYS
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
JLj
J. S. PRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AN OftfltNAßY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPHESIES Off MAAS 'JHBAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER."— Lancet.
Late Rowlands & lewis. q
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigors
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 and 33 “HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MB2DAL for JBrated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, & '
