

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
m
A3NQAS *133318 3QN33Y13 VZ S ZZ
‘sHimrjM
<*mu
(I
S
►*««**,,
"ft.*,
"'1 18,
ifi.
[ c SEap,
°Ood i
\ i; ~ ‘5"
3' U . , r; -:. “\C
\ é; V §\\.§'7\52~,§§T:23
5%." A ‘13"! ; ~“ ; 9‘9?! “4;? 5’ 4' 5'. Q
, “va .- . ~..:31“7_g W ‘34 n ‘13
“Q/ ‘ g-Qs'f/Ir'f‘ ix ’5' I -
.1. ’z Q/II‘: “if“? 3/], V’I'Iy C/‘/§A g ,\5\ ‘ -‘\
Q \ 54M", « \J‘ II \V "’ ' "'3"
-‘. will IWW/gg‘xxéﬂg ”$4 of? 1 .‘l I:
in ; ‘I‘ “!§§9’TW~--'., .' 1.". % .q-‘t‘7
:5“ I} {1‘9“— FL” VIII/X “PWW'AN ‘—~.. gﬁﬂ
\ 3; w I“ ‘ ”4‘33“":-
a: E I” M’ i” WVN
R _\:= 7:77:53; mun-"l .’zr \\
\_ 7 xx ~ ‘
.‘.:‘R -
“a” ‘5 ‘- Alf -
Kaxx~ _ “:m
g , ,
FLEMINGS
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Traporte
to sun
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS
WAGGONS,
wl'hSlde Spriujrs.
WAGCONS,
with Roods.
WAf GONB
aad
HARNEBB
for all purposes
Call arcllxspect
OTS
15
>■
V
m
el
A
I* 5
,w
L 0
Tramwa y La/vd Sms Rooms
y\ tyfbmtaquz C^amie^.J
Street [
ALLAN A. IHARSHALL and GO.,
XM7GBTERS and MASSES'ACTUBBRS of
QPVIIBG GEAR, Grass & NlckaH-platad SHOP FRONTSp
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
SET* Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metoi Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksraithlng
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVB,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WAUTB
PREVENTERS. &o.
fo/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD ffORIS, 811 iliawjearfs Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on acpMoation.
&
Cn V
>
9
aP
mmm
/'x
>
OOT
Shoe Bazaar
252 a George S*
Lalji Pca/e tznßL /farceurß SYDJfJBY
ORGANS I
SOLEyAGENTS FOR THE
“SMITH.”
'P
197 Piit-st f Sydney.
to
and Saw-Mill Machinery.
**- GREGORY and CO.,
* A Are SOLE AGENTS for $
v & CO., CINCINNATI
A LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
fi QUlsiTB FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Bend for Catalogues and Prise*.
Sto:
«»: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
DOOD
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
.-^S9S-&^o,
r V
Co
roR
ML
UE
V TOBACCO ,
joueu the 1 arrest Faetory, Manufacture more
Pobaoco, and consume more Amerioan Leaf
Sir Rover. Champion, and Dlxaon’a Out Tobacoo*.
Xitola.txi.ox* 9
24 O’ Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complsts PMetomphie Outfits, In mat variety, from «». Catalosues post frss.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTS for BAKEB’S DRY PLATE, the moat BBLIABLB and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
DOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS Si CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Ooods in th above lines
278 and 412 Geobge-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH


ASK FOR COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
j\OE
w.
PROOF/;
Pm
F.V
NETTING!
CHEAPER mm 88®PORTED
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARHAM A." TA. BIYER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUARLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QU ILTTY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
AbJMIX'J URE.
The FACULTY pronounce it the “most nu+r'tious, perfectly digert ble beverage for Breakfcut
Luncheon, or Supper;” and invaluable for Invalids and Yomg Children.
Being absolutely “all Cocoa.’’ with the rxiessof fat extracted, is ft ur times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weak'm d wuh srrcwmo f , starch, &c.. and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp nr tut to a breakfast op cosiing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best C< c< a H>r Inpi* and toe Colonies keeping for years in ail climates, being in
a concentrated form Made inbiaeta; eousty w ith boiling wat-r, and palatable without miik.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted *s a Medical f omfort In the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers , &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., ss. 6 d., &c.
Whole Bile by the Sole Proprietors,
SOHWiITZS & CO., 10 ADABa-fsTPßtS'f, STRAKD, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
n#nrs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to hifl WHOLESALE aha KELaIL BOTTLE DEP ARTMKN i, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patr .riage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of W'-*I'K'ES. BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIBB, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Piicts obtainable in aydney.
A tri»l will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wnddimr and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
■tiowfid fnr Cas s of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or aiiywharf in the city, or any country station, Free ot Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to oall y our attention to bis fajaou- 1 £3 Cases, containing the following:
a Betties BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Battle JAMAICA RUM I Bottle WOlFsi’S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bst ll PORT WINE 1 Battle SBEKIIYW^ N E
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
lien nerfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rtSrspayable at the Hay market Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Who/ safe & Retail W/ne & Spirit Merchant A Importer ,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, Georg® and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 773 and 780 George-street, Bydney.
Jd
Oi
McLEAN BROS. BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
Sir
IRONMONGERS
12
5
X
<p
V
o
REG 1 ?
<fc
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis ' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Pamt
Alba Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking Stoves:— Leonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’* WASHING MACHINES. &C., &C.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
[; GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARES.
O'
y «rc
M'OARTHY <sfc CO.,
TOBACCO IVIEJRGIi.A.nsrTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
KSf Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A largo and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigaks, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
OFFOHD & CO.’S HA 1S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
(SfT Next to Porn 1 Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
■BIS, mm ml 01
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK G 0 CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS?
11, IUNU, and IB
if
importers ol
BTB AMEN GINKS, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDBR®
MATERIALS, BQUATTERB’ SUPPLIES, &0.
SrLV!KOPJ&
wm
machine
=mp
omcr. »
HEAP
ENCINE
STREET
HAY:
YARD
-tzuron
■ -----V
BAR, PLATE, SHEET, and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED CORRUGATED and VlAf*<p ,«>2
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDER*, *ULM,. , and SBMI-ETXED ENGINES. \STimS;
and HOH ZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM an* othe. PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING. JSStP*’
3CREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMER?, ENGINBERB’ BRAdo
PATENT ROuu«> BHAITTNG, QUIOKSILVEj*.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE , 6^l
ENGINEB ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT
WM. TAYLO’t and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
BEf Price Lists and Catalogues rurnlsued on application
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO*
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- M YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HA
London Oflo*
88 GRAOBOHUROH ST®»Hfc
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS-
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
113 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Split
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sc
mail to any part of Australia.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Gecko e-street.
K. II AX X E Y’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF.
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
•Scotch Whiskies Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies ... ...4s. ~
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
English Aloe and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager. Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
9*
90
t*
o
o v
E e r
v^f*
- s rß
S 1
g£
G^
5 y
pi-
*° 7^&
D A
J3*
Sii*
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
'/dec
'lew <?
I
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
V AT.
LOWEST COST!
Afl* S
CR
AN p
|ST |f *
no
C0 S
**
la
W£R S
IViO
— A /,
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNCHES.
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER
OLE AGENT^
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne:
22, KING STREt ■
Face PBESCKIP t-IQNjS
■ KCit be found in the “
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervoi* 8 *'
Lost Manhood, llespondeucy, &o.
this book wiii oe sent post free, seftl ed <
penny stamps Address-
8. WARD & 00.,
coP ,V
for
Sydney Pharmacy
- i— 4"
U^BR^LLAi
RECOVERED?
,
, -
Hevp-yourUssM!
rs-ccvvJ; <;•'*» j:., •
. »rew : .r re- *Lr»p
equal to
jwS&SS-feffig^
Liverpool and
SSS? u C a^>'
cuted.


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 148 -Nsw Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13, 1886.
Fiiet-6d.
Unionists v. “Blackleg's”
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13 1886
The contention between trades unions and
employers of labour has recently been pre-
senting some curious features, two or
three cases exemplifying a growing ten-
dency. The Stonemasons’ Union of Sydney
demanded the dismissal by Mr. Jennings,
the contractor, of a workman who is not a
unionist. And the ’Busdrivers’ Union of
Melbourne required their employers to re-
instate a discharged driver who is a union
man. The truest friends of trades unions
are, like the truest friends of sovereigns,
not those who crawl Defore th'm and ap-
plaud indiscriminately everything they are
graciously pleased to do. These are the
sycophants who ruin every cause they
attaoh themselves to. Now, we wish so
well to Trades Unionism that any de-
parture from sound principles on the
part of Unions pains and alarms us.
Abuse of opportunities has broken down
more monarchies than an exterior in-
fluence has undermined. And abuse of
of opportunities would just as surely ruin
trades unions. Now trades unions must
not beruined. Among all modern organisa-
tions they have been the be t and most
potent instruments in working for a fairer
adjustment of the proportions of profits
divisible between Capital and Labour.
Taey have tended materially to improve
the condition of the skilled mechanical
classes, and there is room for hope that by
the extension of such combinations even
clerical and unskilled labour, which is ex-
posed to much severer competition than
regular trade handicrafts, may, in csurse of
time, also succeed in emancipating itself
from the severer forms of wage-slavery.
But with the growing strength of trades
unions has developed a tendency of the
most extraordinary kind. It seems almost
inconceivable that organisations which are
in their very essence the expression of
human repugnauce to the tyranny of
cliques and classes, should so early in their
career become infected with the very dis-
position which they aim at combattiDg,
Yet this is exactly what their action in the
Jennings case exera plifles.
* * *
We will not concern ourselves with the
legality or illegality of the course pursued.
It is so recently that merely to combine in
a trades union was a gross illegality that
any argument drawn from the condition of
human enactments must, especially in refer-
ence to the actions of associated labourers, be
open to challenge. Trades unions were fair
and honest combinations while participation
in them exposed workmen to [legal prosecu-
tions and convictions. There are many
aetsof the “people,” even now, which are
not only just but salutary, and which are,
nevertheless, violations of the enactments
Placed upon the dtatute Book by the pro-
pertied classes for the better maintenance
°f their system of “ sweating” the workers.
But we have always endeavoured, and
always do endeavour, to distinguish between
natural justice and merely human enact-
ments. The latter, in too large a number of
instances, merely represent the machinery
by means of which dominant castes endea-
vour to perpetuate and enforce the wrongs
they inflict upon the mass of maukind.
Therefore, our criticisms are based, as nearly
as we can manage to keep them, upon
natural justice and moral right.
♦ Hi *
Tested by this standard, the reoent pro-
ceedings of trades unionists in the cases
have referred to, and the general
tendency of these organisations, appear
unjustifiable. Taking first the ease of the
strike of the Sydney stonemasons recently
in Mr. Jennings’ employment. The union-
ists had a clear right to attach to their en-
gagement as a body any terms they pleased.
They had the right to declare, before en-
gagement, that they would only work on
condition that none but unionists should
be employed on the simejob. They had
the right at any time during their engage-
ment, on weekly terms, to impose that con-
dition. Consequently they were justified in
declining further to serve Mr. Jennings on
his refusing to accede to that stipulation.
In the interests of labour, it was, we are
disposed to believe, a wise and useful
stipulation. So long as labour is divided
against itself, opportunity is afforded for
crushing wages to an unduly low scale. If
MR. JAMES HENRY YOUNG, M.L.A.
(Photo, by Freeman and Co)
in any trade the unionists exceed the non-
unionists sufficiently to render the latter
impotent for independent action—that is to
say, to make it impossible or difficult for
any considerable works to be carried out by
non-unionists alone—it is a sagacious policy
for unionists to refuse to work where non-
unionists are employed. For it is the true
jnterest of all labourers to join and support
the unions of their trades, as their influence
is invariably in the direction of the improve-
ment in the wage rates, and consequently in
the social, and ultimately in the intellectual,
condition of the individual worker. It must
beperoeived that the average intelligence
of a class is, broadly speaking, propor-
tionate to the earnings. That is to
say, that with money comes refinement,
and with leisure comes self-instruction. This
is true up to a certain level. Superfluity
makes comfort and refinement give place
to luxury and arrogance, and narrow-
minded prejudice is equally the vice of the
down-1 rod den and of the over-wealthy.
Hence, pressure exerted upon non-unionists
with the intention of pushing them into the
union ranks, is pressure exerted in a bene-
ficial direction. But care must be taken to
observe and respect the line which separates
a fair influence of that kind from violence
and tyranny. The unionists, of all men,
themselves ranked in line to oppose a
tyranny from which they have scarcely yet
emancipated themselves, should be jealously
careful not to exercise tyranny in their turn.
They must study the distinction between
pressure and oppression. Non-unionists
may be stupid, perverse, and blind to
their own ultimate interests. But no
sophistry will suffice to justify a practice of
treating either stupidity or blindness as a
penal offence. Union mechanics should
know, from their own constant experience,
that oft-times a working-man positively
cannot afford to bo just to himself, his
order, or to act up on bis inward convic-
tions. A man may be so circumstanced
that he must accept work under any con-
ditions or perish—he and his. Working-
men have been victims so long that their
sympathies and recollections should deter
them equally from expecting individuals
to voluntarily make themselves martyrs to
the cause, and from sacrificing as martyrs
unwilling victims.
* * *
It goes without saying that in oases where
the supply of non-union labour is adequate
to carry out the works nect ssary in a com-
munity, refusal on the part of unionists to
work where non-unionists are employed
would be merely suicidal. Under such cir-
cumstances, their proper course would be
proselytism— Hover difficult for them, inas-
much as they have rtasm, a good came,
and real identity of interests to work upon.
But intimidaiffin and violence, such as
appeared to bo regarded as welcome weapons
at a reoBnt meeting iu connection with the
Jennings case, are stupid and mischievous.
If the se be permhsiole resources by union-
ists ageinst non uniouists, capitalists will
need no prompting to accept the lesson, and
to use intimidation and violence against
trades-unionis s. rt is only yesterday, as it
were, that Capital abandoned those instru-
ments by abolishing the laws against trades
unionism itself. They will be ready enough
to revert to the old sjstem, if an excuse be
furnished such as intimidation by unionists.
The managers and leaders of the unions
must not fancy that the victory is consoli-
dated. Capital yet stands jealously in ob-
servation, ready to recover all its advan-
tages if it perceive a promising opportunity.
ii*
Black-legs ars provoking creatures. They
comprise but too many of the meanest sort
of mon—favour-curriers, dullards, sneaks,
and traitors. In every groat constitution
traitors are to be found, and these have
always excited sharper hatred than the
actual enemy. A corquored or captured
foe is admitted to quarter and treated with
respect. But a traitor is Jgnominiously
hung. And so too with rebels. In the pre-
sent contest Labour v. Capital are the com-
batants, just as in the internecine war be-
tween North and South, in the United
States, Northerns fought Southerners. And
there are citizens who honestly believe that
trades unions do more harm than good—
limiting the demand by increasing the price
of labour and tightening the stringency
of the labour market, just as there were
Southerners in America who were out of
sympathy with the cause of Secession. Con-
scientious dissidents such as these merit
honourable consideration. But the crea-
tures who, while professing loyalty to a
cause, seek a personal advantage by betray-
ing it, or who, for obviously selfish motives,
refuse their allegiance, deserve severe treat-
ment and earn all the obloquy which can be
cast upon them. Trade blaek-legs may
belong to eithtr class, and just as in a war it
is practically impossible to discriminate be-
tween persons who d ssent from what is the
general cause, on conscientious motives,
from the reotiles who seek advantage by
treachery, so it is with Labour and Capital.
It is inevitable that the labourer who refuses
to enroll under the standard of his order,
must be classed with traitors, no matter
how pure may be his motives. We re-
gard workmen who decline to affiliate
themselves with the unions of their
trades s s lacking in sagacity and pub-
lic spirit, and fail to see that they ean
reasonably complain, although they be con-
founded ia the general contempt of their
united fallows. Scorn, however, is no ex-
cuse for violence, and around personal
liberty to join or hold aloof from an associa-
tion the common law must cont inue to hold
its sheltering protection The tyranny of
trades unions is no less reprehensihlo than
the tyranny of a throned despot or of a
privileged caste.
* * *
With respect to the demand by the Mel-
bourne unionists that a discharged em-
ployee should be re-engaged—this exaotly
reversing the demands of the Sydney stone-
masons—the claim appears quite void of
moral force. The relations of employer and
employee involve more than questions of
competence, A man may be a good hand,


and a decent fellow, and yet not so consti-
tuted as to be in pleasant relations with an
employer, while he might get along-har-
moniously with another. Allowance for
differences of temperament must be made in
suoh matters. Any to establish a
system of compulsion in this respect must
fail, because it antagonises a law of nature.
There are difficulties and repulsions between
men which could not be overcome. So long
as an employer works with union hands,
trades unions will have to be content. It is
useless and impertinent for them to attempt
to dictate as to the particular individuals to
be in this or that master’s employment.
If an employer declines to work with
unionists exclusively, all unionists can
leave him alone, to take his chance
of supplying their places with non-
unionists. But, further than that, their
collective rights do not go. In the particu-
lar case under notice, the plea of the em-
ployer, whether it be accurate or not, ex-
poses the unsoundness of the position
sought to be assumed. The employer
alleged that he is reducing his establish-
ment. Now, no influence on earth can com-
pel an employer to pay more ’hands than
his business requires or will support. Com-
pliance with demands to continue to employ
eleven men, when there is only work for ten
to do, would, in many instances, simply
mean acceptance of ruin. It represents an
unproductive outlay of nearly 10 per cent.
And 10 per cent, on the turnover is, in a
great many cases, more than a business
man’s entire profits. If trades unions are to
maintain their ground and to extend their
influence among working-men—as we trust
they will—they must be managed with
sagacity, and their operations conducted
with deliberation and without passion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Libelling Australians.
Mr. Froude, eminent although he is as a littera-
teur, has evineed the same stupidity as seems to
afflict every “ distinguished visitor ” who pays a
flying visit to these colonies. On the strength of
a sojourn of three weeks in New South Wales he
considered himEelf master of the whole situation.
He sat down and wrote his opinions, not modestly
as being merely the slight impressions of one who
was conscious that solid convictions can only
justly be formed after prolonged and exhaustive
investigation of a subject, but with the cock-a-
hoop assurance of a vain man. He was run after
—as is usual in the case of any man of mark who
visits this part of the world-by our leading par-
venus. By these he was coddled and surrounded.
They fed and feted him, assumed their best and
newest company manners, hedged him round from
contact with the mere rank and file of colonists,
and when he was gone, awaited with complacent
expectation, recompense in the form of a compli-
mentary notice in his book. And they have not
been disappointed. Mr. Froude has done the
handsome thing by his hosts, and they are distin-
guished by name as among the most gifted, most
amiable, most remarkable individuals he has ever
met. But poor Mr. Froude would, perhaps, have
gushed with lees effusion had any glimmering
dawned upon him of the extent to which his
obliging toadies were “giving him away.” A
parvenu, arrived at “ position,” invariably imi-
tates or developes the worst distinguishing quali-
ties of the privileged classes. There are no such
Tories in New South Wales, and no such
exacting social exclusives as the persons
who have risen to public station, or ar-
rived at great wealth, from the meanest
origin. Brought in contact with persons of that
sort, poor Mr. Froude allowed himself to be
crammed with what he was simple enough to
believe was Australian public opinion. Thus he
was fooled into pronouncing that in Victoria Con-
stitutional Government was so discredited that
reversion to the status of a Crown colony was in-
evitable before long, the truth being that the
Victorian people would rise in armed insurrection
if any attempt to rob them of their Constitution
were attempted. Similarly in New South Wales,
he was crammed with the Action that the colonists
held Gladstone in abhorrence and revered the
memory of the mountebank, Beaconsfield, the
truth being that there is no English-speaking com-
munity where the great Liberal leader is held in
more general reverenee and esteem. Mr. Froude
Is a clever man and a writer of singular force and
beauty of style. But he is himself a bitter Tory,
and perhaps deserved no better fate than to fall
Into the hands he did, and to be gulled to the top
of his bent with Actions pleasing to his precon-
ceptions.
That Infamous Treason Felony Aet.
SIR Henry Parkes complains that in ascribing
to him, in our last issue, the responsibility for the
Treason Felony Act passed during the excitement
following O’Farreul’s attempt upon the life of
the Duke of Edinburgh, we have done him an in-
justice. A reference to the records of the time
shows that, technically speaking, Sir Henrst is
correct. The bill was not introduced by him, and
he did not speak in the debate which preceded its
adoption. The history of the Act is that it was in-
troduced by Mr. Martin, now Sir James, who
Was at the time Premier and Attorney-General.
Sir John Robertson seconded the motion to sus-
pend the standing Orders, to allow of the bill
being passed throngh all stages in a single day.
The first seven or eight clauses were simply
copied from the English Act, passed under the
excitement of the Fenian scare; but several
following clauses were added by Mr. Jame«
Martin. Of these, the «th clause was the
most extraordinary. It was worthy of the
worst features of Russian ukases. It pro.
Tided that any one speaking disrespectfully
of the Queen, on refusing to join in the toast of
her health should be liable to the penalties of the
gill, gir Henry Parkes was Colonial Secretary iq
the Martin Ministry, and although he did not
speak in the debate, he voted for the Bill*
which was passed by an immense majority* Mr.
Garrett has the credit of having spoken and
voted against this measure, which reflects dis-
grace upon its authors and supporters. Mr. John
Lucas— honest John— supported the motion. The
Bill passed through the Upper House also in one
night, without amendment. The Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, commenting upon, the measure,
expressed the opinion that, “the moral
effect of this law will doubtless be bene-
ficial.” And thirty-six hours after its final
reading-that is to say, after opportunity
for reflection—the same journal it remarked, in
reference to the 9th clause, relative to a refusal
to drink the Queen’s health,—“We do not see,
after what has transpired in this colony, that a law
of this kind is not admissable.” And the Herald
supported the Act almost without reserve.
Sir Henry Parkes is entitled to the benefit of the
foregoing corrected statement. It is certainly
more in keeping with the reputation of Sir James
Martin, than with the character of Sir Henry
Pahkes, to have been the originator of a measure
so subversive of what is popularly known as
British liberties. There is reason to lament, never-
theless, that Sir Henry, in lieu of tacitly acquies-
cing in the Bill, and of voting for it, did not
oppose it with all his powers, and even in the
modified light it is now presented the affair is not
one which reflects crc|lit upon him as a Liberal
statesman. No better apology can even now be
offered for his share in the disgrace than we ad-
mitted last week, namely—That he did but share
in the general hysterical excitement of the time,
instead of evincing true greatness of soul by
towering over the pigmies of that day, superior
alike to them, to a transitory excitement, and to
popular clamour.
—♦ ——-
Hechabites ant Bum.
The New South Wales Local Option League pro-
tests “against any persons pecuniarily engaged in
the liquor traffic having seats upon the Royal
Commission ” to inquire into the liquor question,
but strangely enough in moving this protest the
Rev. P. B. Boyce (whose intellectual brilliancy,
by the way, has never been so great as to cause
much alarm to his friends) ingenuously admitted
that the matter had been somewhat altered by the
inclusion of Messrs. Hutchinson and John
Tombstone Roseby. This protest is about as 2ne
a sample of party bigotry as anything the records
even of local optionism itself have ever shown.
From it we see clearly enough the wish of the
League to prevent any but teetotal advocates
from membership on this commission. The
local optionists would perhaps like to see
the fluent Mr. Richardson, who comprehen-
sively describes publicans as “ legalised mur-
derers,” appointed chairman, with the Rev.
Boyce, and other teetotallers, including that
clerical Demosthenes who denounced liquor as
“liquid fire and distilled damnation,” as h's co 1 -
leagues. But such a commission would be scouted
by the public of New South Wales who desire to
obtain reliable facts concerning the liquor trade.
As well might one try to get an impartial review of
the 39 Articles of the Protestant faith from Arch-
bishop Moran, or an unprejudiced history of the
Popes from Zachary Barry, as a truthful report
on the liquor question from a committee of tee-
totallers. It is not that these latter are liars with
intent, but being intoxicated with prejudice, and
inebriated with party bigotry, they habitually
make statements which are irreconcileable with
truth, justice, or charity. The prominent teeto-
tallers of the city regard the cold-water cure as a
panacea for all evils of modern civilisation. Full
local option is to them the dawn of the millennium.
Little wonder that they should become mentally
drunk with the prospect, but the fact of their
being so does not furnish an excuse for their
foisting on to their sober brethren a vivid des-
cription of the liquor traffic in the guise of a
striped snake, or detailed accounts of visions of
the publicans masked as spotted dogs. The report
of a teetotallcommission would be a striped-snake-
and-green-dog production, therefore it is a matter
of satisfaction that there are men on the other
side who will insist upon separating the utterly
fanciful, from the substance of facts, and produce
only the latter. Perhaps this is the reason why
some of the Optionists desire to abandon connec-
tion with the commission altogether,—they do not
desire a report at all, unless they can dictate its
terms. The most satisfactory commission would
be one composed of neutral men, but if the pro-
fessional accusers of publicans are permitted to sit,
the latter, in all justice, must be allowed repre-
sentation that they may be defended from the
attacks of those who hold retainers from the
opp'Site interest.
The special train business in New South Wales
is a highly artistio form of public robbery
for which no one is directly responsible. Special
trains are allowed for the convenience of Cabinet
Ministers, and for the pleasure of such peers, dis-
credited or otherwise, as choose to visit Australia.
Such inflictions the taxpayers have mutely borne
hitherto, but there is a limit beyond which public
endurance will not go, and that point was surely
reached when a special train was provided for
the conveyance of a few firemen from Sydney
to Melbourne on Sunday last. Why the coun-
try should be callsd upon to pay for a
special for nearly 400 miles to suit the
dignity and convenience of a couple of dozen
of noisy and demonstrative firemen going to com-
pete for the amateur water-spouting champion-
ship of Bungaree is a mystery, which we hope the
present Minister for Works will be called upon to
explain. If it was neces3ary that these heroes
should travel free, why not give them passes
simply, instead of a special train ? There is only
one reason why a Sunday special should have
been put on for these firemen,—the passengers by
ordinary train might have objected to travel with
such boisterous and exhilarated mortals.
———-♦
The narrow majority in the House of Commons
of 30 against Mr. Lahouchere’3 motion to abolish
the hereditary principle in the House of Lords, is
the shadow of the coming event. It may be that
the division was taken in a thin house, and there-
fore cannot be regarded as an accurate test of
opinion, but considering that the motion was sub-
mitted by the inveterate foe of heredity,
it is only fair to suppose that strong efforts
were made to ensure a stroßg muster on
the Conservative side. A proportionate ma-
jority in th® New South Wales Assembly
would only be a fraction less than seven votes—a
very small number for the progress of thought to
entirely efface. In any case, this vote must clear
the way for Conservative concessions. If so in-
signiAcant a barrier prevents the people from
invading the territory of a comDany of nerveless
lotus-eaters, the most haughty even of the peers
will see the necessity of assenting to considerable
sacriAces to preserve the remainder of their estate
—they must give their £5OO to prevent the nation
from laying violent hands upon the accumulated
capital of privileges possessed by their class.
Under any circumstances this vote must be a por-
tentous one for England’s alleged “ statesmen by
hereditary right.”
Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bullbtib
are—For one year, 21a.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, Os. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advbbtisino Rates are 5s. per inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsT
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 21, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent! who aive neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“ 0.C.R.”: Yes; but wait till the recording
angel has mended his pens “M J.”: Marriage is
a lottery, and as lotteries—without the consent of
the Attorney-General—are illegal, we suppose
marriages are illegal, too “ E.B F.” (“ Deporta-
tion”): Will consider.....“H.W.C.”: Next week
—“Swagman”: Abit “off colour.”—“Health”
(Oxford): Next/week “Henry E.”: Under con-
sideration “Styx”: Ditto “J. Jamieson”:
It was W. W. Story, the American poet and
sculptor, who apologised for Judas Iscariot. This
is how he trie3 to explain away the action of his
curiously chosen hero, the alleged traitor:—
“ What meant these words ? They seethed in
Judas’ soul—
• Here is my God—Messias, King of Kings,
Christus, the Lord—the Saviour of us all,
How long shall He be taunted and reviled
And threatened by this crawling scum of men ?
Oh I who shall urge the coming of that day,
When He in majesty shall clothe Himself
And stand before the astonished world, its King I
Long brooding over this inflamed his soul;
And, ever rash in schemes as wild in thought,
At last he said, ‘No longer will I bear
This ignominy heaped upon my Lord.
No man hath power to harm the Almighty One.
Ay, let man’s hand be lifted then at once.
Effulgent like the sun, swift like the sword
The jagged lightning flashes from the cloud,
Shall He be manifest—the living God—
And prostrate all shall on the earth adore.’ ”
“.Reader ” (Charlestown): Dan. O’Connor Is called
“ Behind the Curtain Dan,” because at the meet-
ing held by the Redmonds in Sydney he omitted
to show himself on the platform, but was behind a
curtain at the rear. For years he had posed as an
Irish “pathriot,” and for a long time secured a
compact Irish vote, but on this the only time he
was ever called upon to do battle for the cause he
was not prompt to show himself to the audience.
This piece of business has made his seat for
West Sydney'anything but secure. “ Mines and
Minerals ”is not yet out. The Board o [ Teohnica 1
Education will inform you as to its price —
“ Health” (Alford): Of course someone must be to
blame for keeping the child’s corpse unburied for
five days, but you don’t say who the party is. We
would like to slosh around generally on the
question, but don’t see that our doing so would
benefit anyone in particular....“L,E.S.”: Your
poem, “Changed,” is very much so. Changed
from paper to a fine white ash .. “Comedian”:
No space for this matter at present. Some items
much too sultry...." Anglo-Cornstalk ”: The
official to whom you refer should be cleared out
without delay; he is insolent beyond the average
of men of his class. Several of the small-fry
at the Sydney gardens are very inferior in their
alleged manners.... “ J.P.8.”: Thanks. Hope to be
able to use both...“ W.H.E.”: Next week...“T.O.”
(Walcha): Went through your MS. last week, and
are now as well as could be expected. One of the
stories would.be suitable, for publication, but not
in The Bulletin. Send round a van for MS. If
your plays are ever produced our advice is : Send
an indiarubber dummy to represent you, for when
the audience call for the author you may be cer-
tain that a weapon is in every man’s hand and
bitter malice in his b050m....“ F.S.R”: MS. by
post. Faults of construction prevent acceptance.
....“Egardo” : You write—" What’s this, a tear?
Tiiis poem has made me weep.” Our position
exactly, but it is not a poem “Helena” : No,
we don’t pay for poems of that kind—“H.N.C.”:
Very acceptable ..“K.RS.” (Melbourne): You
deserve a medal “T.A.”: Not often...." J.R.’ :
You send us 5,100 lines of alleged poetry, which
does not contain one couplet correct as to metre
and rhyme. Are there no post-holes to be dug
anywhere near your humpy....“ Moruya ”: Glad
to hear from you...." Endymion” (Toowoomba):
Our only literature on the subject consists of
stray pamphlets and press extracts. We don’t
think it would be easy to procure the Times of
that date. You may get it at Brisbane Parlia-
mentary Library....“O.J.”: No, but if the papers
are to be believed the gentleman’s acquaintance
with petticoats will necessitate a heavy outlay in
silk gowns.." The Wrinkler”; Yes, welare sure he
is a native. We well remember him as an ah
mally fat boy, who, about 10 years ago, uge(1 Ilt)r "
to walk, but to be poled along George-st not
Sydney. His nurse had a powerful umbrella reet|
a brass ferrule, and by constant prodding B v, Witll
duced her charge to shift from one shop
to the next, until no suoh attraction offe re( j
the homeward road. He now isn’t in the L
lature....." Simon M. G.”: Thanks....“ j. 6B !?*
Mazzini ” : Thanks “ E.S.” : It is a '
thiDg to see a gathering of educated Presbyter!* 4
clergymen fall out, and chide and Aght just lit 1
members of Parliament and other ruffians
“RH.O.”: We cannot say whether tbe Minute",'
aware that a “ cheap beef-club ” at Junes is r 8
by railway officials, and we don’t know W hat h°
would say if he heard that such was the f a ?
Some ex-Mlnisters would probably desire to shift
the Parliament there if the brew ig
good as you say..J.T.S,: It means on*
who only believes in what he can prove 6
“ Boko ”: Thanks, but as the only joke is contained
in an unsavory suggestion we don’t use the par *
“F.H,” Of no use if only locally interesting
“ Freethought ”: Will work up part of your lette
....“Aliquis”: No; wo really couldn’t print it
You see, the Rev. Huggard has two libel aotiong
on already, and nothing might please him tetter
than to run us for a third on your alleged verses
A good subject for your essay would be, “
ing, one of the Ane arts,” with special allusion to
Henniker Heaton, or the “Art of Spelling,” witl)
a poetical dedication to John Davies, C.M.G, or
Alfred Bennett...." Blue Water Thanks: have
given it a line.
A very pleasant gathering took place at
the residence of Messrs. Eves, at 8t. Peters, prior
to the departure of Mr. Ben. Eves for Europe.
About 50 couples were present, and a very pi eg !
sant night was spent.
At the Newcastle, N.S.W., Police Court
on Saturday, Emily Borrowes was charged by
Joseph Brookrose, with having stolen an ulster
the property of his wife. It was proved that
Emily had borrowed the ulster and returned it on
time. Mr. Creer, in discharging the prisoner
commented in severe terms on the prosecutor’!
precipitate action:—
The girl should not have been brought here,
We’ve proof that she is innocent,
The article was merely lent.
The Court o’er your proceeding/) sorrows-
lt is not theft when Emily Bor
The South Creek (N.8. W.) Salvation Army
following up the denunciations of the stsge bv
Sydney parsons, mustered strongly in front of the
crowded hall where the Lynch Bellringers were
performing and turned a full head of steam on to
the big drum, while apostrophising the per-
formers they yelled, “May you be forgiven!"
“May the Lord be merciful to you,” “Hallelujah."
That prayer has been amply answered, for mag-
nificent houses have since rewarded the perform-
ances. The company is now at Bathurst, the
sanctified city, which won’t have a sacred concert
on Sunday.
Wolfe's Schnapps may be used with impunity
its ingredients having been tested by medical men,
and found absolutely pure.
Be certain you make no mistake: ask for
and take no other but the genuine Wolfe's
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe’s.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , (is. M,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle,
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WIN*,
Is. 6d. peg Bottle,
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Is. per Bottle
SUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Price*.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
lS(9d. eaok.
The Key Brand, and Henke# Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LAAOISZ sin.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND IULLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts*
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street*'
■YDNKT.


jjj g address on the occasion of fisting the
i onial loot, the extremely venerable the Dean
said among other things Allow me to
A Big Mistake.
FROUDE: “I SAY, GLADSTONE, THE PEOPLE OF AUSTRALIA DESPISE YOU.”
GLADSTONE: “A LITTLE MISTAKE OF YOURS, I FANCY. YOUR INFORMANT ISN’T THE PEOPLE. HE EVEN WANTS IT FORGOTTEN THAT HE ONCE BELONGED TO THEIR
RANKS.”
hi(ihL in my discharge of some of the
tr «tion l? 8 which fell to my lot in the adminis
teBv »uW e diocese; of the assistance and cour-
ana >» o Ve een afforded me, by both clergy
•uty, gome of the “higher duties,” you
must know, are suggested by little notes such as
the following:—“ Dear Dean,—My haunch of veni-
son arrived in fine condition by the Austral. It
has been now hanging for six days, and, therefore,
I shall expect you to-morrow, 7 sharp;” an epistle
which would, in all probability, elicit the follow-
mg godly reply:—" ‘To the feast will I hie me
(2nd Tim., 16,6.) We are clay figures in a ball of
glass (Taylor); port-wine sauce with cayenne.”
The Palmer Chronicle man howls thus 1
over the “telegraphic slush” he gets from his
sucking Reuter at Brisbane The old woman
who telegraphs from Brisbane to the country
Press has no equal in this world. We have written
and wired without avail, for the insane rubbish is
still sent. Any news of real value he never sends,
but if some obscure infant gets the croup, or an
old woman hides in a drain from a streak of light-
ning, these are always sent in full.” No equal in
the world! Right before us lies, in several ways,
the Sydney Evening News, in which our mid-day
pie is wrapped. It—the paper, not the pie—con-
tains a special wire from Jarramindharah Flat to
say->‘ The weather is fine. Poultry stealing: is on
the increase. The Down and Gumtree Journal
Is much admired all along: the Bogan«"


PERSONAL ITEMS.
We wonder, when Sir Charles Dilke ar-
rives in Sydney, what will be hisexactlocus standi?
We mean what particular lady will be selected
from amongst the colonial aiistocracy to take
him down to dinaer ?
“Queen Victoria has chosen, as the date
of the pe-f rmance of ’Mors et Vita’ (hue and
Death ’) which she will attend at the Royal Albert
Hail, Friday, March 20 that beiDg the eve ot the
til rd anniversary of the death Of John Brown.
Truth.
It would appear from
the following cutting
from a Folkestone news-
paper that one of Ber
Majesty’s sons has turned
poulterer s—“ His Royal
Highness the Duke of
Edinburgh and party
have now finished pheas-
ant shooting at Eastweil
Park, and these extra
large birds, all fed on the
estate, can be obtained
of—” As there is some
capital trout fishing at
Eastweil (remarks a tru-
culent London press-
man), it can only be
through an oversight
that H.R H. has never
started a flsb-barrow-
An English paper
states that Prince Henry
of Battenberg, before his
marriage to Princess
Beatrice, had been re-
hearsing the matrimonial
drama with a female who
bad unfortunately con-
ceived a true passion for
him. The announcement
of his engagement to
the daughter ot a Rtyal
Bouse at first stunned
and then maddened her.
There was a grtat noise,
and no smail difficulty
was experienced in keep-
ing it from the ears of
those who would have
been prejudiced against
the young man in conse-
quence. In the end a
golden salve was applied
to the female’s sere heart,
and the Prince escaped
with only the loss of a
handful of hair. Prince
Alexander of Bulgaria is,
tney say, in no hurry to
marry. He basks, in the
sunshine shed by the pre-
sence of one who is as
devoted as, and possibly
a good deal more amus-
ing than any wife would
be. She is a French
woman, whose buxom
figure once graced the
Parisian boaros. She has
solaced the Prince in bis
trials and in times of
actual danger she has not
left biß side. Such de-
votion demands con-
sideration, and the lady
herself thinks so. The
consequence of Prince
Alexander s swearing at
the altar to cherish an-
other would be an un-
seemly row, an expose,
and possibly some
scratched faces.
Thus a Tasmanian
coriesp<.ndent Dear
Bulletin, The V lce-
Regal “at homes” in
Tasmania are usually well
attended by those ot the
Hobartonians, and others
who wish to be con-
sidered “ in Society.” Cer-
tain members of the local
aristocracy have recently
objeoted to a well-known
athlete being admitted
to Government House
because scandal has bten
busy with his name of
la'e. As Sir George
fatrahan is not a man to
be dictated to, be has de-
clined to take notice of
the protests made. At a
recent “at home ” the
gentleman so referred to
and his wife responded
to an invitation given as
usual, and on entering
they were greeted smoe-
what coldly, three or four
families immediately
leaving the drawing-
room. The question
naturally suggests itself,
“ Why did they leave?
Was it because they
could not breathe the
same atmosphere inhaled
by the ostracised member
of “ society ? ’ If so, how
do they reconcile their
aotion with the fact that
they had not objected to
the company of another
individual present in the
drawing-room, who had
been forced to leave high
office in consequence of
acts which should for
ever have excluded him
from decent society ; or
to the company of an-
other visiter who had
taken advantage of a po-
sition of trust to act
queerly —“ to put it
mildly ?” The host him-
self hasnever uposed as a
saint, but his position, no
doubt, is quite sufficient
attraction to those who
can conveniently draw a
line as to when and where
they feel themselves
called upon to exhibit a
little virtuous indigna-
tion. We live in a world
of cant and must look
for such incidents as
these. At the same time
it is rather hard on the
man who is chosen as the
scape-goat. “ Fair play
and no favour” is a
motto which does not
seem to meet with ready
acceptance at the hands
of so-called “ society ” iu
Tasmania.
In view of the approaching separation
of England and Ireland a town-house has been
taken In Dublin for Mr. O’Donovan Rossa.
Victoria has kindly shed her Boy Politi-
cian on N.B.W. Mr. .T. P. T. Caulfield is in Sydney.
He is a smart youth. By crossing the border now
lie has just evaded the coming poll-tax.
It isn’t generally known that when Thadeus
O’Kane, the sledge-hammer editor of the North-
ern Miner first arrived in Australia, 30 years ago,
he was employed as a writer by Mr. (now bir
Henry) Parkes, of the Empire.
The portrait of Daniel Bandmann, and the
portrait of his wife, a talented and amiable lady,
were about to appear In a London illustrated jour-
nal. Said Daniel to the editor, ‘‘,M'y wife is a
clever woman, and a good woman, and-and-she
is my wife; but my pordrate must abhear first.
What’s in a name ! John Henry Newman,
a tailor, was last week, in Sydney, committed for
a month for wounding a shinmate. And in N.Z.,
the other day, H. Burdett Smith was “sent up’
for insulting a lady in the street. We must say
that such a thing could never happen in Sydney.
The Governor is to be invited to the Sydney
drapers’ picnic. If Lord Carington gets a few
more blushing honours thrust upon him such ss
this he will be a happy Vieeroy indeed. Should
their Excellencies avail themselves of the invita-
tion, as no doubt they will, It is estimated that the
The Tinned-Fish Fiend.
female following of the vice-regal party will not
be a large one. It is getting too near the end of
that bothering quarter 1
“ The Queen,” says an English writer,
“daily grows more nervousabout being thronged,
A crowd at a sufficient distance is well enough;
but for it to swarm about her carriage nils her
with unaccountable apprehension. The voices of
the people, if raised in praise of her, are pleasant
to her ears; but distance lends enchantment, and
her subjects must not come near enough for their
breath to fan her brow.”
The papers generally consider that the
Queen looked “ young ” the day she went to open
Parliament. We don’t know how we bear our
years, except that those we meet are not offu-
sively complimentary. Put us in a coach behind
eight horses, though, and we might look young,
too. We know we feel young even when behind
two horses, and we have convinced the driver that
we have had the misfortune to lose our tickets.
English “soeiety” whispers that Lord
Rowton has taken that place in the Queen’s con-
fidence which his patron, Lord Beacoasfleld, held
during the latter years of his life. It is more than
possible, for the ennobled Montague Corry is,
above all things, a courtier. The QueeD, more-
over, is considerably interested in the “ Beacons-
field Memoirs,” which the faithful Rowton is
editing. In those memoirs we may expect to find
some spicy epigrams anent the Grand Old Man.
Henniker Heaton has been elected to the
Carlton Club. This is from Reynolds News-
paper:—” A paragraph has been going the round
of the papers about the Duke ot' Marlborough
joiniDg the Carlton Club. We cannot congratu-
late the club. The man who seduces the wile of bis
friend, and thrashes his own wife when she is
enceinte, would not be admitted into a club of cos-
termonger?. Once, Tennyson, before he donned
tne livery of the lordly, sang, ‘ ’Tls only noble to
be good.’ Gauged by this standard, and judged
by evidence laid before the court, the duke’s
nobhlcy would be reduced to vanishing point ”
The duke should come to Sydney. Bis secretary
would be occupied six hours out of the twenty-
four in writing his Grace's refusals to dinner-in-
vitations.
Mr. Joseph Aroh appeared at the ban™, ,
tendered to him. In London, “ attired in a on?
and-salt suit, a scarlet necktie, and a steel '
chain.” This reminds us of A. G. Taylor Mr »’
In his early political days lie was Invited to
his photo, done at Tuttle’s. He kept his annnw®
ment to the minute, and revealed himself in
jean coat, a green satin sailor's-knot, with *
enormous brazen horee shoe, a pair of lavens an
pants, and a three-penny flower, well dismal!?
“ I don’t often sacrifice to the graces,” said A a'
as we weDt groaning up into the lift, “ but on'
occasion like this I’ve resolved to oome the extn
super., or die. I tried on a whole trunkful n fn?‘
landlord’s things before I settled upon thi«
Nobby, ain’t it?” 018 %
Mr. Justice Windeyer
complains strongly about
the overcrowded state 0 f
Darlinghurst gaol. Who
crowds Darllnghu rst
gaol? Mr. Justice Win
deyer.
Visitors to Tasmania
almost invariaely take a
look through the Casoade
Asylum at Hobart, where
the remnant of theorimi.
nal lunatlos who used to
be at Port Arthur
blood-stained scene o?
“His Natural Life”)*?!
now confined. One of
the oldest and most in
teresting of the inmates
died on the 18th U l t !
He was known as •• Blind
having lost the
sight of one eye. Vim
tors to the institution
will remember with hor
ror tne grey-haired old
man, with ruddy W
who used to lie up on hid
stretcher with his ganV
rened lower limbs ex.
P OB He was an inoor-
rigible fellow, and could
bca9t that he was the
only man who had ever
bested ” Jack Price, of
Norlolk Island fame. Tnis
h ® managed to aocom-
plish by stubbornly re-
fusing to do any work.
If told to do such light
work as cleaning a step,
he would answer, “Yes
IJI do It; but you must
carry the bucket and mix
the stuff for me.” For
this kind of insubordins-
tion be was lashed most
unmercifully, and no man
living or dead probably
has ever undergone so
many floggings as poor
Mooney had to submit
to. But nothing c uld
ever break his spirit.
Upon one ccoasion, when
being tried for an offence
by Mr. James Boyd,
Mooney slipped a boot off
and hurled it at the Com.
mandant's head. He was
transported to Botany
Bay in 1838 for a black-
face robbery; was sent
to Van Diemen’s Land,
and, being untameable,
was transferred to that
hell upon eartb, Norfolk
Island. He was a most
persistent absoonder, and
on obtaining his liberty
wou d at once steal arms
and make for the bush.
On two or three oc-
casions he was sentenced
to be hanged. Upon one
occasion, after he had
been transferred to Pott
Arthur, one of the
officers heard him plan-
ning with another pri-
soner to murder the
overseer of the wood-
gang and escape to the
Dush. He possessed a
flow of high spirits which
nothing could daunt. His
grim sense of humour
was once shown as fol-
lows:—It was the rule to
muster the men at cer-
tain intervals for inspec-
tion by the Commandant,
and on such occasions
the mei’s trousers weie
rolled up to the knees
in order that it might be
seen that their legs were
clean. One day Mooney
purposely rubbed one ot
bis legs with dirt, whloh
was at once noticed by
the lynx-eyed inspector.
“ How do you account
for your leg being in that
state, sir ? ’ Mooney
looked at his interrogator
with a twinkle in bis eye
and then looked down at
his leg with a puzz’ed ex-
pression. “1 must have
made a mistake,” be said!
“ d dif I didn’t wash
my mate’s leg instead ot
my own.” He was let off
that time, but the record
of his many punishments
is a curiosity in itself.
It covers three paron-
ments written across,
across, and across again-
The wonder is how any
human frame eouin
stand the awful lashings
he received—and they
were lashings in those
days. During the
few years of his
Mooney was insane. Bis
mania took a religion*
turn, and for mapy
months he would scarcely
quit the study of “is
Bible. One day, however,
be tore the whole volume
into small fragments*
Visitors to his ceil he
evidently regarded as in-
truders, and would Pite-
ously pray them “ Leave
me with my God.
appeal would invariant
be lollowed by a string
of oaths on their backs
being turned. He
one of the last few link
which now remain w
remind one of the o*
convict regime in
Diemen’s Land.
“'Old Kitty,’ the oldest survivor of the
once powerful Nulla Nulia tribe of aboriginal
died recently at Macleay, aged about fiO y eftr “'.
The examination of the gunyah by Kirby's sate
iites brought to light a crumpled document, u
which were (they were deciphered with difficulty'
the following lines:
This um secret
Make heart throb;
Kitty lubbed him—
Burdett Bob.
In re Queen Victoria’s edict that tb®
peeresses attending the late opening of Parllag
which took place in fearful winter weather
should wear low dresses and feather, a MpHS,
paper writes:—“We wonder how many deatm


„<rh nulmonary oomplaints the Queen has
tbro „ U ?fi fl nonaible for during her reign ? What a
beeD ur museum of skin and bones, too, she insists
nnllecting about her at every drawing room I
uP°”iantlv the Sovereign has a' intense an admira-
Ap pareu 3 omen » s shoulder-blades as for the bare
Sees of big-boned Scotonmen.”
irhereis a rumour that the Marquis of
, i “7,nhv hasn’t quite done with Australia yet.
drawing some £6O 000 or so from Victoria, he
AVLinkintr of drawing a matrimonial prize from
is atv The Marquis is quite old enough to marry
” a aecond time. His wild oats have been sown
vears. and he will not abuse the privilege
t'j®??J*ohkey. There is one disquieting thought
0 -Anted with i his rumour, however. Normanby
cO . to return and dwell among us. This
be establishing a oernieious precedent.
w°e might have Gussy coming back.
The hearts of many British maids are
iinir H, B. Conway—“ pretty ” Conway—has
attacked by paralysis in that very face which
s®fascinated them so much and so often—from
the footlights. This is a terrible thing- for
!i?o girls, and worse for Conway. They can find
in a fresh face, but he oan’t. We guess it
,„the some of the musoles of his mouth that
m »n»ralysed, and if the ladles will give them a
Sethis attack (which is happily only a slight
will soon be over. Before the catastrophe
Mr! Conway was playing Faust in Henry Irving’s
big show.
The Pope has selected an Irish bishop as
Sinnissimus to succeed Archbishop Go old of Mel-
hnnrne when the latter, who is now old and feeble
he never was regarded as intellectually strong—
.nitres By the way, we wonder how it is that
nrnoeedings have not been taken on behalf of the
Archbishop against the person or persons who
have of late been widely distributing a pamphlet
niiroorting to emanate from O'Farrell (the man
«ho was 80tne yea™ since sent to gaol for shooting
at Dr Goold), and setting forth most oircumstan-
tiftilv-dates, names of persons, and places being
ffiven apparently without disguise—some of the
most astounding charges we have ever heard made
gainst any clergyman.
Curious coincidences occur outside of all
nossibilities to be calculated by actuaries. E very-
nne knows that George Eliot’s real name was
Mary Ann Evans, and that she made a left-handed
marriage of 14 years’ duration, with Mr. G. H.
Lewes. In the lately published letters of Lord
Beacons&eld to his sister we read that his wife’s
maiden name was also Mary Ann Evans, and
that her first husband's name was Lewes. In a
late affiliation case in Melbourne a Miss Burns
summoned one Quinlivan for child keep. But
three years ago these names—not these persons—
were before the Courts in a murder ease. One
Burns, a railway labourer, was found guilty of the
death of a former mate of his of the similarly un-
usual name of Quinlivan.
Joseph Arch, the English agricultural
labourers’ representative, caused some sensation
the other day by taking his seat as a member of
the Housb of Commons, dressed in a rough grey
tweed jacket and billycock hat. This is a lesson
for the Australian Democracy. The experience so
far of the electors both of N.S.W. and Vic. goes
to show that the man who leaves the forge or the
bench to enter Parliament as a labour representa-
tive and who changes his clothes “ because he has
a position to keep up,” turns his back upon his
constituents. A shiny black coat is as much an
emblem of aristocracy as the Windsor uniform ;
and the glitter of a shiny black tile on the head of
a “working man’s member” should serve as a
lighthouse to voters against the danger beneath.
The Argus last week had a London tele-
gram of the death of Judge Langton Clarke, who
had died some 14 years previously in Me bourne I
Tbe Age of the sam date had a London telegram
of the death of Sir Andrew C arke, late Governor
of the Straits Bettiements?and formerly Surveyor-
General for Victoria. This strange muddlement
of the death of one of the two Clarkes named has
not been cleared up yet—as it should be. The
Argus should acknowledge its error, or the Age
should put things right for readers of both papers.
Sir Andrew Clarke is or was the uncle of Marcus
Clarke, and Marcus—Heaven help the uncle I—
“managed ” some of his Victorian affairs. Under
the circs, it’s quite a wonder the old gentleman
didn’t die long ago.
One day, fifteen years ago, Marshal
Bazaine marched out of Metz with 173 000 French-
men, wbo laid down their arms as they passed the
gates of the starved-out city. One can still catch
an echo of that howl of execration which broke
from the throats of the populace when the Mar-
shal, “ under tbe escort of Prussian cavalry, drove
from Ban St. Martin, through the Place d’Armes,
oh his way to captivity in Germany ” To-day,
again, Bazaine stands, in the eye of Europe, “aged,
stout, and bloated,” shuffling painfully alODg the
public ways of Madrid, where for many years he
has been living with his wife and family. He has
his wife’s money to exist upon, and, thanks to his
connections, he still has the entree to certain
salons of repute. But his chief role now seems to
be that of the social pariah, and people look curi-
ously and askance upon the sorrowful old creature
when he takes his walks abroad.
Bumbledom in the graveyard ! The
monument to tbe late Mrs. Watson, who so heroi-
cally defended herself against the blacks on a
small island in the Far North some years ago, has
been unveiled at Cooktown. The local Inde-
pendent asks “by whose authority the name of
Edward D’Arcy, Mayor 1886, was out on that
monument ? Mr. D’Arcy was not mayor in 1881,
and the name of the mayor should have been left
blank until the municipal year commenced after
the election in February. We have no objection
to Mr. D’Arey's memory beiDg preserved and
associated with that of Mrs. Watson, but the muni-
cipal committee might have paused before record-
ing. for perhaps 300 years, a falsehood in our local
nistory.” The Cooktown authorities have evi-
dently heard of the Soudan medals (issued by the
Sydney Corporation), whereupon the name of the
mayor was engraved in letters larger than those
denoting the name of the valorous recipient.
Journalism is not run on such easy lines at
Wagga as one would Imagine. The Riverina
otar aDd the Express take rpposite tides in
n°K?! ' h* l ® former prints Bolton's letters to
Publio departm-nta and otherwise supports him,
wane the Express, it appear?, takes to chuffing
Lsi £ en, leman. Enraged at a joke against Bolton
wmch appeared in the Twopenny Hawkins a few
dais ago, the Stay, let out and liauhed up
viciously let us add, ungrammatiea ly, thus: -
ine writer must have brought up in St
ones or Petticoat-lane, and the editor who would
thing to be published is equally as
Wo 5 8 re k®rdB his knowledge of what is proper.
ofM w n °t condemn the Express, for of late its
thn 8 b P ve been of the lowest order, but we pity
rJu hold them, and the proprietor who per
mits them.” That editor lay in wait for two days,
twJ ' en ßth met his man at the Riverine lub, in
of which classio retreat a fierce and
“My encounter ensued. While he remained
the Star representative s defence was
anal’i h ' B gave way early in the combat
antagonist, quick to seize the opportunity,
best use of it, and, according to popular
report, knocked his man out. The law is to-be set
a motion, and there cannot be less than 150 wit-
anl 8 il 8 ’ , We await further developments with
anxious interest.
Mark Twain has been more than ordinarily
hp® oro .ffB lately. His latest and best joke has
Din,*’ Wl P b a Bly drollery of which he is such a
to cozen the subscribers to tne memoirs
i.-iE' s ® t, ral G act. of wtaicb he is punisher. Tne
a ,°6 8 not seem to have “caugbtoa’ to the
JVvf tnat might have been expected. TbF is
CKm an ®_ w ' 3 Paper correspondent aas co say : " Mr.
cum-f DSbas taKe u advantage of th* pec .It r oir-
L-ij{r a l c . es surrounding the enterprise to make a
sw-i mii wblC r ’ iu al ‘ its mechanical futures, is a
widnii 0, Primed poor-y in large type,
of B iP rea< l on poor paper, wi h cuts and maps
in an(i most vulgar style of execution,
onanL a® 8 would disgrace a volume ot a
dfiinL ctor ' As at the time of General Grant’s
larFli,. j understood that Mrs. Grant wi uld b-i
Pendent on the sale of her nmmoirs for
sc ordinary revenue, it will be seen that the lips
of all the critics were practically sealed as to the
bad character of the publisher’s part of the work.
The fine sense of humour that enabled a gifted
author to cheat his fellow countrymen under the
cloak of the widow’s claim to indulgence can
readily be appreciated.” Rough, this, on the
great American humoristl Perhaps Mr. Clemens
was tired of making the public laugh on one side
of their mouths, and wanted to make them laugh
on tne other. He is probably the only man in
America—besides his partner in the printing firm—
who enjoys this last joke of his thoroughly. This
shows how fleeting is popularity.
From a Home paper:—“By special dis-
pensation from the Pope, the marriage of Mr.
Algernon Law, of the Foreign office, with Miss
Constance Bigot, daughter of the late Chancellor
Bagot, was solemnised at the Oratory, Brompton,
on Tuesday. Being a mixed marriage there was
no music.” Wasn’t there ? Where, oh wherel is
that ancient, much-enduring, sorely-battered
kerosene tin with which we celebrate such events?
Ah! here it is, and here’s the boot-jack to pull off
a few melodious notes therefrom List!— Histl —
hush I
Mr. Algernon Law
And Miss Constance Bagot—
They wanted—hurrah—
To be tied in a knot.
But when it was found
That the one wai a Prot-
estant, heretic; bound
They could scarcely be got.
Till His Holiness-bless
Yourself, sonny; the Pope
Fixed the noose - he's a boss
Hand at tieing a rope.
And now, Mrs. Law,
Ne 3 Constance Bagot
And Algernon—haw—
Don’teherknow
(Stop yer rot.— Ed. B.)
LEG-IRONY.
MR. PUTTS POYNT (representing one of the N.S.W. first families): “I OBJECT TO NEWS-
PAPERS-I DON’T LIKE TO HAVE MY PROCEEDINGS PUBLISHED. I LIKE MY
MOVEMENTS TO BE UNFETTERED.”
LITTLE JORKINS: “ HAI QUITE AN HEREDITARY TRAIT THAT, I FANCY.” (Escapes,)
A London cablegram states that “the
Weekly Dispatch declines to apologise forpub-
ilshiug a report of a speech delivered by a returned
immigrant libelling Sir Alexander Stuart, and
upholds the aceur ey of the report. Sir Saul
Samuel has been trying to induce the public pro-
secutor to indict iha libeller, but it is probable he
will await the arrival of Sir A. Stuart.” If fair
Alexander Stuart is so stupid as to try and crimin-
ally prosecute a powerful Radical organ-or any
other p*per—like the Weekly Dispatch for
exercising the undoubted right of every British
newspaper to fully report the proceedings at a
public meeting he will be simply laughed out of
the Empire. Alick will find when he tries to bring
down the Dispatch that he is no longer
in the free and enlightened ex-oonvict colony
of N.S W., living under laws which would dis-
grace the mediaeval Chinese. In England—and
very properly so-all you have to show is
that what you say is true The rest is left to your
own good taste and to the never-failing ultimate
verdict of public opinion and history. The
English pressman is privileged to report
anything and everything said at a public
meeting; tie Australian journalist, thanks to
the fact that our laws are written and maintained
in the interests of the “ first families.” still writes
in muzzle and manacles, and metaphorically
clanks under the editorial table the leg-irons
rivetted on him by people on the tombstones
of whose fathers all reference to the cuiso of
death is pui p s-dy omitted We are a >t, a vare of
the nature of the libel c jmplaiaei of by Sir Alex-
ander Stuart; we can only oonolude that this
memdaeious r.ssoU of an immigrant has said s >me-
thi, g of a satirical character boncerning Aliok’s
psisunal appearance.
Paraphrasing a well-known saying of Dr.
Johnsons, we may remark that in a narrative of
the career of certain Australian “lucky miners”
there would be si ms of the most sickening chap-
ters in the bis.ory of man. According to a tele-
gram received last week in Sydney, a wire h&d
arrived at Brisbane from Normanton, North
Queensland, '.elating that Mr, Francis Horace
Stubley (not so very long ago a Sydney resident),
formerly a member of the Queensland Parliament,
and once a wealthy miner, left Normanton last
Thursday week for the newly-discovered Croydon
gold-field with a party of 10. On the following
d«y the party reached a shanty 65 milts inland,
where Stubley complained of feverishness and
rested six hours. He then mounted his horse but
felt worse and on getting down expired almost
immediately. Four other deaths occurred on tho
same day on the same road. A doctor has gone
out from Normanton to exhume one body to as-
certain thB cause of death. A further telegram
from Normanton to the Colonial Secretary reports
four deaths including Stubley’s, and states that six
other persons found on the road werenot expected
to live. The heat in that region is terrible. Infor-
mation sent to the police particularises the deaths.
The name of the deceased are: John Thomas,
James M’Lean, Thomas Corry, and Frank Stubley.
The place where they died is near Green Creek,
Thus miserably ends the chequered career of
Francis Horace Stubley, who during a few years
took out of one hole alone at Charters Towers,
over a hundred thousand pounds’ worth of gold—
and “knocked it down.” We are under the im-
pression that Stubley was a native of Victoria;
anyhow, some of his earliest years were spent in
that colony, where in the first days of his manhood
he worked as a blacksmith. By and bye, he came
to the front as a venturesome potato speculator at
Warrnanabool, and soon managed to fail for a con-
siderable amount. He left Melbourne for Eng-
land in a sailing ship, and was not heard of much
again down South until he turned up some years
afterwards in the character of a rich reefer, whose
mines were yielding more money than he could
well count. Like all the rest of mankind,
Horace Stubley wasn't satisfied with a good
tning, so h 8 went in for racing and gam-
bling, pail big prices for pedigree stock for
his Far Northern stations, and—crowning folly
of all-thought he could become a millionaire
through the medium of grain-speculation, a few
years of which, with the aid of his rash ventures
in other directions, deprived him of his splendid
fortune, shot nia mines into the insatiable maw of
the banks, and even landed him in gaol at Mel-
bourne a 3 an insolvent compelled to account for
the expenditure of moneys, some consider-
able portion of which, according to the
evidence, had been exchanged for diamonds
It might have been expected that, after such
terrible reverses following on the expenditure of
his best energies, Stubley would have bent to the
blast and been heard of no more. Not he. With
seemingly dauntless energy he set about endea-
vouring to retrieve his fallen fortunes. He
projected again at Charters Towers, but vainly—
few men find twice in their lives a St. Patrick’s
block or strike mundic in such a mine as the
Bryan O Lynn—few men who have made huge
piles and then lost their all in a place where once
they found themselves without enough money to
buy a cup of coffee (such was Stubley’s experi-
ence when first he arrived at the Towers) are
fated to hit again upon the glittering bonanza
The elation felt by Frank Stubley on the morning
when, after many months of toil, the red flag was
hoisted in his claim, and he went over to ask old
Mother (who sat in the doorway of her shanty
mending the Crimean shirt of her “lucky” lodger)
to “ have a driak and wish him more success,”
ultimately proved too much for the man in whom
the love of speculation wa* a passion. During the
last year or two Stubley was hard pressed; sheer
desperation probably drove him to follow that
soiftv will-o*- tbe-wisp. Gold, along the arid road
up u wh ch he an i so m my of his parts' met, their
d wm. Aoco ding to the te egmmt, the Quee is-
land Government, not s-itiefi d wish tho theory
that he it apop-exy oaus- d th« d »at,bs, has sent out
a med'cfi tuau to hold po.ft mortems and thoroughly
investigate the sad oc un-cnee t’his would seem
to lidicate that a suspicion is entertained tnat
“doctored” grog is at the ooctom of the tragedy.
Subjoined is a reproduction of the latest
issued ortrait of Mr. Howard Speusley, the pre-
sent MT for Central Finsbury. Lite Hsnoiker
Heaton, he represents Australia in England’s nmv
Parliament, and like him, and unlike Hr baojue,
Wilson, succeeded in getting a seat at the first
attempt. Mr. Spansley’s oareer in Australia is
shortly told, and beyond that there is, at present,
little to tell of him. Ho arrived in Melbourne in
1854, was for a time clerk to the late David Lyons,
the stock broker there, and also Melbourne corres-
pondent for the Ballarat Star. Afterwards he
started, in conjunction with Mr. Martin (now of
the Colonial Mutual Assurance Society), the Prah-
ran and 8t Kil.da Advertiser— a paper still
extant. Entered himself in 1860 at the Melbourne
University as a law-student and was called to the
Victorian Bar in April, 1864. Went then to Woods-
point to practise for two years. On his return to
Melbourne, he took serious views of life, married
Miss Staughton, eldest daughter of Mr. Simon
MB. HOWARD SPENSLEY, M P.
Staughton, a wealthy squatter, and struck out
for both fame and fortune Got returned to Par-
liament for Portland, and was made Solicitor-
General in Sir Gavan Duffy s Ministry. Mean-
while found that the trustees of his late father-in-
law’s estate had a half-acre allotment in Bourfee-
srreet, Melbourne, bringing in a rental of
£650 only. Offered to put £3O 000 worth of
buildings on it if a 20 yeats’ lea-e was given to
him Obtained the lease, and built the Royal
Arcade as it now appears Finding that a clear
income of £5OOO a year accrued therefrom, after
payment of ground-rent and taxes, Mr. Spensiey
retired to England on the burst up of the Duffy
administration, and entered as a law student of
Middle Temple, Hs was called to the English bar
in 1874, and has been resident, since that time, in
London, save for a short visit paid to Australia in
1878. Mr. Spensiey is a thorough Liberal—if not
Radical—in politics, and votes for all the move-
ments brought forward by his party. As a bar-
rister of now II years’ standing, he is eligible for
any of the legal positions falling to the gift of the
dominant political party for the time being,
Duncan Gillies, the new Victorian Pre-
mier, has got a pretty good start from a democratic
point of view. During the recent election a taand-
eill (circulated at the instance of tbe supporters of
the opposition candidate, Mr. Pelling Hugh Gough
Fjgott Stainsby-Conan t (better known as Alpha-
betical Conant) flew round very extersively in-
deed. It rao thus:—” The following declaration is
published in consequence of the Riverine Herald
having, in its issue of Ist March, 1886, challenged
the veracity of a report to the effect that the Hon.
Duncan Gillies gave the Boots at the Palace Hotel,
Echuca, one penny for bis tip: - Statutory De-
claration.—l, James Barra gan. of Echuca, for-
merly engaged as B iots at the Palace Hotel, now
out of business, do hereby solemnly and sinoerely
declare:—l. That on the 23rd day of February
last I was employed as Boots at the Palace
Hotel, Echuca ; 3. That on the morn-
ing of the said 23rd day of February, I
assisted the Hon. Duncan Glides, tho Premier, in
HON. DUNCAN GILLIES,
The New Victorian Premier.
the transportation of his luggage, &c„ from the
said hotel. :3 That, the said Duncan Gillies, in
recognition of my services, presented me with the
sum of one penny and no more, in the presenoe ot
M, ssrs. Spearing, Kent, and several other persons.
4 That since the report of Mr. Gillies’ action I
was dismissed from my position of boots. And 1
make this solemn declaration conacientiouSAy be-
Sieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Vw •
toria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt per jury.- James
Barb ag an. Declared at Echuca, this 3nd day of
March. 1860 Before me-C. M. Seward, J.l.
Gillies’ penny is likely to become as famous as
Berrv’s and Parkes’ respective sixpences. The
coin was purchased by an Echuca publican tor a
shilling, and an aspiring Opposition u
an adjoining electorate has offered to buy it irom
the man of rum for five shillings.
Womtjs’s Schnapps. There are many imita-
tions but by using ordinary intelligence you need
not be deceived.
Remember that a little Hod Bitters .save big
Doctor’s bills and cur<: s when all else tails. Don t
take unless Am. Co s make. Read
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Omy sold by Hookings, M 3 Pitt-street.
admiral Nelson said: “England expects
every man this day will c o h ! s duty ; ’ ana those
prlooes <>f caterers in crockery—uray Bros- 403
and 401 «e irge s’.reet- thick hia words worthy of
giving effect to. Ask for everything you icqurre
ia China, Earthenware, and Glass, end learn how
they strive to do their duty to the general public *
Wolfe's Schnapps is the most powerful, whole-
some, and suecssfui restorative of this age.
Obtain Wolfe’s,


m H B A T K B ROYAL.
JL Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson. Garner and Musgrov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Gee.L Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Gratifying Inauguration of the Regular Dramatic
Season.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGKOVE’S
famous
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
by delighted audiences crowding the theatre from
floor to ceiling.
HOODMAN BLIND.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, MARCH 11.
AT A QUARTER TO EIGHT PRECISELY,
HOODMAN BLIND.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
rfIHE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
JL George-street, HaymarkeL,
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening [during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Specialty Union in
their Refined Entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices; Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
OAD B M Y
O F
MUSIC.
THE PALACE of the MONARCHS of MIRTH and
MINSTRELSY.
Bole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hiscocks.
83ad WEEK ' 83nd
HISCOCKS* FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Specialty Union.
in their new programme of BURLE3QUE and
UNADULTERATED FUN terminating with
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN (re-paiated).
For Vacant Dates, apply F. E. Hiscocks.
Gaiety theatre-
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B N. Jones.
23nd WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
Last Nights of
UNCLE TOM*-! CABIN
THE ONLY JOHN F. SHERIDAN and Miss
MAY LIVINGSTONE.
Mr. DAMPIER and Miss KEMBLE created an
IMMENSE SENSATION.
In Active Preparation, NO MERCY.
Manager for Mr. Dampier'....FßED. GUNTHER.
NEW ODDFELLOWS’ HALL.
Elizabeth-st., corner Llverpool-st., Sydney.
THE VANITY FAIR VARIETY COMPANY
will open in the above hall, which has been taste-
fully decorated with stage-fittings, &c., on
SATURDAY and MONDAY, March 13th and 15th.
1886, and every Saturday and Monday, until
further notice.
The Company consists of 20 new artists to Sjd-
ney, with new local songs, &o , viz., Bones, E.
Flint and F. Vernon; Tamho, J. Pulling and A.
Miller ; Interlocutor, H. Devere ; Miss Grace
Folland, Ida Frances, Ada Rochefort, E. and J.
Thom, H. G. Montague, E. Mitford, E. Carrington,
A. Robertson, J. Lothian. W. Amsley, Radclift, E.
Perman, F. Montague, Master F. Devere (4 years
old), and others to arrive.
Mr. J. Pulling, Champion High Pedestal Dancer.
Popular prices. Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Front chairs, Is.; back chairs, 6d.
HARRY 3L MONTAGUE, Business Manager.
EW MASONIC HALL
FRIDAY, 19th MARCH, 1886.
GRAND FAREWELL OPERATIC CONCERT,
tendered to the distinguished maestro,
MONS. LEON CARON,
by the members of the profession.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE.
The programme to consist of
Ist Part-CONCERT.
Concluding with the 3rd act (garden scene) of
FAUST.
Miss Frances Saville, Signora Fabris, &c.
Full particulars in next Saturday’s papers.
Pro Manager, WARWICK G AINOR.
LYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR.
Bathurst—School of Arts, Thursday. Friday, and
Saturday, March 11.12,13.
Blayney—School of Arts, Mon & Tues., Mar. 15,16
Orange—Oddfellows’ Hall, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday. March 17,18,19-
Molong—School of Arts, Sat. & Mon., Mar. 30, 23
Wellington—School of Arts, Tues. Wed., Mar. 23.24
Dubbo—Thurs., Friday, and Sat., March 25,26, 37.
QLLY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e„ apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
DUM VIVIMUS VIVAMUS,
PAUL’S GOLDEN PILLS
THE
QUINA-PHOSPHO NEUROTICA;
OR,
BRAIN and NER/E INVJG9R4TOR.
This incomparable Medicine is unique, unparal-
leled, and invaluable; in short, the desideratum of
the age—the Paragon speoific for Nerval Debility.
This is no merely temporary “Pick me up,” like
the Phosphines, Phosphodines, et hoc genus omne,
which assume the name of the prime element in
our glorious invention; but is at once a rational,
salutary, and permanent Remedy for that habitual
lassitude, that lack of tone or energy, that want
of mental force, that abscence of Vesprit du corps
which incapacity so many aspiring, but unfortu-
nate, men and women from lighting successfully
in the battle of life.
“ OH, IT IS EXCELLENT TO HAVE A GIANT’S
STRENGTHI”
Price: Ten Shillings per bottle—containing 30
days’ supply; or, for safety in transit, £1 per case-
containing two bottles.
NEWTON PAUL, Blectric Physician,
403 Elizalieth-street, Sydney.
NERVOUS DEBILITY CURED.-Lost man-
hood restored witnout consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent French
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, contain-
ing a simple and positive seif-eure, sent post free
for six penny stamps, Address; HOPE s P. 0., Box
766, Sydney.
Intending Visitors to the Colonial Exhibition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
Carried 1935 passengers last season. Six horses to
be driven up Holywell Hill, St. Albans
Dr. Rumney (of ‘‘RIDGE’S FOOD” fame) is again
running 1 his calebrated six horse Stage Coach,
“THE WONDER,” between London and St. Albans,
leaving Hatchett's Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
every morning at 10 45, returning ta Piccadilly at
6.15, p.m.
Ample time is aliowed at St Albans for lunch and
passengers ti inspect the CATHEDRiL, which is
one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other Particulars apply to
“WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel, Pic-
cadilly, London, England.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of diseasep, even
the most stubborn, partioj-
iarly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touch,
most in a few days-so that
this is not only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, but one of the noblest
medicines that God ever gave
to man.—The Kev. J. Weßley.
Glad tidings of cerlain re-
lief to sufferers from seminal
weakness by means of Foot s
Voitaic Appliances.
Tte Voltaic Belt, as advised,
is really a galvanic bstcery,
as it is commonly termed, its
mode of application is so well
known that I need not ws ste
space in expatiation.
/. {wail}
; t W.
um ‘ if
‘7 11;} HEW
F—J—a
These Voltaic Belts are a certain, safe, and
speedy cure for Liver Complaint, Indigestion,
Seminal Debility, Nervous Headaches Lumbago,
Sciatica, Dyspepsia, Palpitation of the Heart,
Heartburn, Dizziness, Lack of Will Power, For-
getfulness, Irritability, and all complaints of a
nervous nature.
The price in future will be 17s. 6d. instead of
60j., as formerly. As I have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at less
than one-third their former price.
The above amount inoludes medical advice, if
required.
Apply at once to Dr. FOOT. Box 916, G.P.O ,
Sydney, with P.O. Order for 17s. 6L, and your
belt will be despatched by the return of post.
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney, March 9 1856.
Tenders for public works and sur-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works anil Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of whie>
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before th<f
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to acoepi
the lowest or any tender.
ffatur* of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office
Erection of Custom-house, Wil-
cannia
Additions to Sergeant’s Quar-
ters, Police Barracks, Grafton
Repairs and Additions Post and
Telegraph-office, Braid wood
Erection of Waiting shed and
Gate-house at Robicsville, II-
lawarra Railway I
Laying on Gas to Courthouse, I
WolloDgong
Tuesdav,
March 16,
at 11 o’clock
Erection of Sbed and Widening
.Approach, South Woodburn
Wharf, Richmond River
Supply and Erection of Barbed-
wire Fencing at Prospect
Reservoir
Erection of Caretaker's Cot-
tages at the Re servoirs, Hun-
ter River district Water Supply
Erection of Storeroom, New-
castle Lockup
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Tinonee
Additions, &c., to Bathing-house
Hospital for Insane, Parra-
matta
Construction of Whaif, Bal-
r an aid
Purchase of l igfet to Post Ad-
vertisements in the Tramway
Waiting-rooms
Tuesday,
March 33,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection o c Post and Telegraph-
office, Berrima I
Erection of new Lockup, Bowral
Erection of Dwarf Wall and I
Iron Railing, &c., Courthouse, I
Young
Additions, &e„ to Baths, Hospi-
tal for the Insane, Gladesville.
Overbridge in Guinea-street,
Albury, Great Southern Rail-
way
Tuesday.
Maroh 30,
at 11 o’clock.
JACOB GARRARD.
Department of Publio Instruction,
Sydney, Ist March, 1886.
FRESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for Additions
to the Gosford Public School
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, nnd at the
Gosiord Publio School, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions, Gr-s-
-ford Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday,
the 15th March, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 4th March, 1886.
TENDERS FOR FFNCING.
IENDERS are invited for the erection of Fenc-
ing at the Burwood Public School.
Plans and Spec’ficatioi s may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of t'ae Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Fencing, Bur-
wood Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department ot Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o'clock a.m,, on Wednesday,
the 17th March, 1886.
The Minister dots not bind himself to accept
tha lowest or any Tender.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, Sydney.
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
IIIIII!.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FOUR.
USED by ALL tlie
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
1 “$1: \r 3 re “(§§\
.3 . _H\ﬁ1§1\§“‘: a“ \§\‘§.(
1 1'“ '35“ AL? 3;?» i’V/ ‘
g 3 \ a 3, ‘2. ~§¢\\b§y WW5 _/\ 3, {iii-3.
-‘ \ \ , VIEWWWWH' l“ 31' r" ”my, 53% 5 \ If, 3 ‘ '
. _ “k1." ,‘ . _ ‘ ‘3. mg. .(’.; 3 _:
\\ ~ {WWW WWW! W".
er._; _ .52 W .3 —:”r*m,v,1.cee-: ‘W ! 3,73 3'3
3%. -' ‘W “y . ~. W\X‘TL,%‘ ' "x , -'
Si ..1, “-:' “ 4:“. .-" \111 J 1
%\ E‘- 1 W WW 11WWW\ "A (1- ‘ V 2113?: ‘
“:5 \ /’;:" 3; ‘ x .'ljﬂi' :31?" «"3; ~
‘C‘f~ _. K-‘ 3 “.5 LEA “‘ ..5/ \.‘1\\§_\3. \
#7:: —§ ' “7:" ‘W‘ ‘ \l’llﬁm'
,3 ~ N r m ,3 "\--:-
_, KR . 3 r .. «,4
1.7.; L. arty-mm. W
‘M—s ”.
“ﬁﬁl
FLEMINGS
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
7
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
requirements.
WAGGONS,
■wi liSide Springs.
WAGGONS,
•with Hoods.
WAC GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
Expiration, of Lease
Great Sale of MUdIC, STATIONERY, B 3 OKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing
MONDAY NEXT, Bih Inst.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-marked, and a discount of 25 per cent., or 4s. in the £, will be
allowed on previous prices.
The profession and the public are invited to this extraordinary chance of replenishing
their stock of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. Gd., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangiags, Embroideries, Vases, &c., all reduced 25 per cent.
Extraordinary value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £l. Ask for Circulars for
particulars.
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &c.
Account books, Day books, Ledgers, aid Cash books, at wonderfully low prices.
WILLIAM BULLASD,
312 George-street.
i-ii
&
&
1 Derangement of fths Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
S"SrSTE^£.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DB. J. HATDOCS,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the flver
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation, Ihe new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
d. Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to show function'll derangement of the liver; and n@w comes the
great importance of any error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Piil is eonjnpunded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can bflalmostalways relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in gre»st purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Or. Haydock's Hew Uwsr Pill (Sisgafi* C® atari.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’a New Liver Pills will he found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Eaoh vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not beep them, we will mall thern free to any ad-
dress on receipt of 35 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY.
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J. H. FrancH
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 313 kiuds now in the market, any scep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent Mm free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
THE NEW SOUTH AVILES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED ,
Capital, £lOO.OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FI YE PER
CENT, on sqms from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, i Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
m
(JNV XHBn., KI ponoj aq
ai* SIOIJLSISDSEM
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous DeMlity*
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &e. A copy et
this book will be sent poj-t free, sealed, for six
pennystamfs Address—
g, WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
7iJ Hunter-street, Sydney*


SUNDRY SHOWS.
maiATß* ROYAL— Hoodman Blind p. 8
nfrETY Thbatrk—“ Uncle Tom s Cabin
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe „
Academy of Music—Minstrelsy ••
nHoodman Blind” was the treat at the
Royal on Saturday night. This was the
first production of the work in and
2 the hold it was known to have taken of the
f r ° in London and New York, anticipations
The house was filled, the audience
r wt The play, written by Jones and Barrett, ex-
-5 hits world-old passions in new and rustic cos-
Sa Jack Yeulett, the owner of Green Briddy
Firm, and Nance (his wife), are ideally happy.
T?r/ard and Kridge are land agents, with a mort-
al on the farm. Years before, Nance had re-
fined Lezzard’s hand, and the rejection has
omired and poisoned his nature. While keeping
a friendly intercourse with the family, he
inrks his partner to foreclose, and works Jack to
Sieve his wife unfaithful. This is the end for
which he schemes. Ostensibly to help, but in the
to ruin him, Nance’s father returns from
abroad and dies mysteriously in Lezzard a house,
baling before his death that he has another
fiaiiffhter, lost, but alive, between whom and
Nance his money is to be divided. The money
Ufizzard and his partner appropriate, and the dead
man they pass off as a relative of the former. Out
this comes the final wreck.
* * *
i Ben Chibbles, the blacksmith and farrier,
Abbots Crealow, is a well-drawn and interest-
?nir character. He marries Polly on the day the
Snnble begins, succours Nance when an outcast
Tiondon, returns with her to her native village,
anmforts her with loud but genuine good nature,
and puts Inspector Jermin on to the trail of
r P/zard. He is not passionately fond of his wife,
anr is she of him, but they pull along together
nnmfortably and prosperously. Ben Chibbles and
his wife, as pourtrayed by Mr. Appleton and
Miss Marie Brooke, belong in love matters to the
nitiss of common-sense people in whom a grand
Passion is never found. Consequently they live,
and fatten, and die in peace. Mr. Titheradge was,
nn the contrary, the intense, fine-fibred, fervid
Tank Yeulett, to whom his wife was a goddess
fiven though the surroundirgs were poor. To
him accordingly, came terrors and tragedies.
Pnllv's love for Ben was lethargic. She, too, grew
faf Nance s love for Jack was wild, consuming;
Teas the waif’s love for Tom Lattiker was homage,
Idolatry. Nance was consequently thrown to the
winds with a breaking heart, and Jess was driven
into the Thames with a broken one.
* * *
Love is tbe twin-sister of Genius. In the
same realm of white sunshine both are born. On
both brows break the same radiance. Each
parries in the right hand the full of a heart of
exauisite rapture and the full of a head of
ecstatic delight. But each carries in the left hand
a phial, the odour from which makes madness,
and the taste of whose contents incites to murder.
The man who wants to grow fat as he grows grey,
and to have a red-cheeked crowd of children
about his knees, and a smooth-browed wife in a
cloudless home beside him, should pray to the
cods for a union of convenience, and to be hidden
away from the touch of the hand of madness-
making, murder-breeding, ecstatic Love.
• a •
The authors appear to have had trouble in
supplying Jack with adequate pretexts for con-
demning his wife. Lezzard, to the development
of whose character Mr. Vincent applies forces
that go with the conception of lago, is made to
bring suspicion to the “ sticking-point ably.
Withal, however, a sense of inadequacy obtrudes.
Jack’s love turns to hate in one evening. It is
true he is brought near to where a woman like
Nance) sits on a stile with a Gipsy. Jack’s idola-
trous love should have asserted itself in a refusal
to trust his eyes. His hearing had been to a small
extent abused before, but instead of beginning a
fight with the Gipsy, the impulse of his intense
love should have driven him to an encounter with
the women he mistook for his wife. That, how-
ever, would have closed the play. It is not the
natural development of intense passion, but the
exigencies of authorship that act here. The inci-
dents that turned Othello mad were numerous,
insidious, tortuous, and protracted. The gulf
between him and Desdemona was dug long before
the crowning blow was dealt. Such a course was
necessary, even with a man like Othello, who, as
lago knew, was—
“Of a free and open nature
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
As asses are.”
Until Jack is brought to the style, however, his
love is untouched. In one instant the whole
change takes place.
The melodrama is exciting, shows a very-
dexterous manipulation of persons and incidents,
abounds with snatches of rural scenery, the
beauty of which the brush of Gordon makes
Striking, and is interspersed with some well-
written passages of pat bos and power. Mr.
Titheradge does not possess a strongly sympathetic
voice. There are no tears in it. It is the voice of
a man on ’Change. It’s tones are good for buying
and selling with. The soliloquy at the river, into
which he is about to fling himself, is finely written,
but it does not catch hold. His acting is, of
course, strong, manly, finished, but in this part
his voice is too matter-of-fact to take captive the
light, quivering, variable, sensitive sympathies
that hover around the situation. Miss Maggie
Knight plays the double part of Nanco and Jess.
Neither calls for representation of a more than
mo ierate character. She faints, is repulsed by
Tom Lattiker, and throws herself into the Thames.
But though very capable, her performances do not
rise above the medium level. There was an effec-
tive orchestra, and the combination of a multitude
of things, middling and good, will make the play
an attractive one for some time.
** * *
“The Shades of Australia,” by one of the
lights (and not an 80-caDdle power, either) of the
same continent, is now the business at the Sydney
Opera House. It is said that it was “ written ex-
pressly for this theatre,” which goes to show that
Mr. Southau, the author, has a poor opinion of the
Opera House. The drama has been “ taken from
real life ’’—real life in Mars or Venus, we presume,
for the business is unlike anything we have seen
on this world. That very fact constitutes the
ohief attraction of the piece; it makes the repre-
sentation unique, novel, and bizarre.
• • ■
We would fain surround Mr. Bouthan’s
work with a girdle of glorificatory gush, a halo of
hyper-laudatory epithet and a crown of congratu-
latory compliment, but the piece is too amateur-
ish as to plot, and too clumsy in the dialogue, to
warrant any extravagant encomium. The third
scene in the first act is, perhaps, the funniest part
of the business. Anastasia (Miss Blanche Lewis) is
seated in a sort of drawing-room in her mansion.
Mark, a stockbroker (Mr. H. N. Douglas) enters
and proposes apparently for about the 20th time,
fhe refuses, and while the footman at her elbow
is arranging the lamp on the table, unravels in the
most ingenuous manner possible some little
womanly sins of her own in former years when
she was led into a mock marriage with a heartless
villain, who left her after the birth of her child,
whereupon she put the said child out to an
amateur baby-farmer under ridiculous conditions.
Marx then departs, and she turns down the lamp
ft® I “leaves the room. On the table she has left a
light desk, containing valuables, and as the room
has no door, but merely a wide curtained entrance
to a garden, her conduct must be regarded as care-
less in the extreme. Eaters a Melbourne pick-
pocket, dressed in very well ventilated garments.
Me sees the plunder, but stops to take some nips
ifoih his flask, and spout copy-book platitudes of
Jhe vice must ever terriumph I” order. He gives
the signal to his pals by whistling at the door, and
they come in and characterise everything as
“ bloomin’,” but show no alarming disposition to
burgle while there are comfortable sofas about on
which they can sit and talk about prayers learnt
at a mother’s knee. They are evidently burglars
of culture, for one of them (Scotty) remarks— I
have a strange presentiment that something is
going to happen, but so far have nothing to verify
my suspicions.” Then the question of collaring
the plunder is discussed, and one incipient Ned
Kelly insists upon their leaving the desk, because
she might value it more than she does the loot,
and while they argue this question, Button, the
detective, who has “put up the job,” comes in
and collars the blood-thirsty young miscreants,
and declares the capture will earn him another
stripe, but Gus. Pearson (J. L. Hall), a Yankee
with a consuming desire to mind other people s
business and borrow £lO notes, emerges from
behind the curtains and denounces, in a style that
brings down the house, the treacherous Button,
who, in the sequel, gets his stripe—2s of them in
fact, and five stretch besides. This robberv all
through is funnier than G. H. Reid’s Exhibition
cantata. If such truculent young ruffians as Mr.
Southan’s trio were to visit our hash-foundry at
Woolloomooloo we wouldn’t trouble to throw
things at them, we would just sool the cat on.
She would wipe them out in one round.
* * *
There are many parts of the play that in-
trigued us considerably. We were, for instance,
at a loss to understand why “ Mercenary, a modern
hotel-keeper,” should have been shot dead in the
second act, unless it be that gore has a distinct
commercial value in colonial dramas; nor are we
quite clear as to the raison d'etre of the shooting-
irons in the gambling scene; nor. in fact, the
necessity of the scene at all. Stray chunks of plot
have a habit of lying around loose in the “Shades,
and are perhaps introduced to nut the ingenious
auditor off on a wrong scent. With all its incon-
sistencies and incongruities, however, the piece is
admirably received. The evident fact that the
dialogue has been written by an Australian, for
Australians, predisposes the generality to a
favourable verdict. And the scenery assists the
pieco to a very large extent: the representation
of Cole’s Wharf, Melbourne, being so accurate
that a pittite, who borrowed a match from us out-
side, offered to point out Ms boiler if we would
come another night.
* * *
The most interesting and consistent
chapter is that in which James Traveller is con-
cerned, and under Mr. Burford’s treatment the
character becomes an interesting, if Bomewhat
gruesome study. Traveller and Sinclair (Mr. Rod-
ney, who shines with unwonted luminosity) put
up a job on the guileless sharebroker, and he not
being fly to the game is “ nipped for five stretch;
from first to last this incident is worth attention.
* * *
This time we have only given scraps of
the performance, for we are naturally of a charit-
able disposition. At the fall of the curtain there
were loud calls for the author, but he did not
appear. It was modesty (or absence) that kept
him away. Discretion had nothing whatever to
do with his non-appearance.
# • *
At Sydney Gaiety, “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ”
(by Dampier) still provides Ben Jones and Solomon
with cigars, and Gunther with cosmetiques for
his miraculous moustachios. There are four stars
in the constellation which at present lights the
Gaiety. Two of the cluster might with advantage
shoot themselves into the studded realms of space
without being missed to any great extent. Of
course, we do not intend to specify the particular
pair which might emulate the uncertain meteor
in the rapidity of their disappearance.
* • *
Miss Livingstone as Topsy is a marvel. A
marvel as showing the depths to which a pour-
trayer of any character can descend when striving
to be funny. Topsy is nothiog if she be not funny.
Miss LiviDgitone is not funny. She annoys the
audience by her repeated gagging, and in mo-
ments when pathos is supposed to be represented
by the scene before the house, her ill-timed in' er*
jections serve, while awakening some cacchina-
tory guffaw in the chest of a seasoned larrikin,
simply to certify that the performance is a
buriesque. 9
The Marks of J. F. Sheridan—Jurispru-
dence Marks—is a clever impersonation, though
differing from Mrs. Stowe’s Marks. He seemed to
rather abjure his prudence and endeavour to dis-
Slay the humour of Sheridan in the person of
larks.
* * o
The only Dampier plays the part of George
Harris with distressing [calmness, and evinces so
little anxiety—genuine anxiety—to seek freedom,
that one is reluctantly compelled to imagine his
sole ambition was to get rid of his wife and child
by the fashion of divorce then prevalent, “Selim
’em ’way down de ribber.” Dampier is not the
fugitive slave—he is Dampier all the time.
* * *
Miss Kemble makes as much business as is
posuble out of the small part of Eliza, but there is
too much discount off the transaction for the
artiste’s abilities to profit from her efforts. As
there is such a tendency to introduce innovations
into theatrical performances of late, we would
suggest that Eliza’s passage across the sea of ice
be performed on roller-skates, trundling her
juvenile offspring in a wheelbarrow. This would
add greatly to the intense excitement of the run-
away; or, if the two bloodhounds could be
allowed to read the fairy tale of “ Una and the
Lion,” or the Androoles fable, they might induce
the inhuman slave-dealers to skip up a tree by
championing the terrified lady and bearing the
youthful Harris across the ice-floes between them.
* * *
We have found out the trick of working
stage bloodhounds, and in its very simplicity lies a
wealth of wonder. When it is necessary to place
them on the scent, the first viilain crosses before
them with a Bhin of beef in his pocket, and the
return journey is induced by passing the joint
quickly round to the back and waving it from the
O.P. side. The hounds, in their eagerness for
supper, dash frantically across where their reward
awaits them. Thus does the human animal come
ahead of the simple canine. “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
will be pulled down in about a week.
At Sydney Alhambra the first part ren-
dered on Monday evening was arranged in a
symmetrically sequent way, such as would lead
the reader of the programme to infer that the
management was matrimonially inclined. As the
genial Smith who runs the concern has long since
been welded in the bands of wedlock, the sus-
picion could not for a moment be entertained.
But without prejudice we give the bill as written:
—“ Overture ” (by “ him,” of course), “ Good Com-
pany” (they twain, lonely dell, Cupid’s dart; a
year passes), ‘‘Little Darling, do you remember ?”
(be), ‘‘l speak to you” (Of course he does;
“Pops,” (?) “Ask Papa”), “Wedding Bells”
(hooray), “ There’s a light in the window.” (Of
course, the wedding supper—the old man pays.)
“Saidle Ray.” (Why should he not say “Ray?’
She was his ray of sun shine, or daughter shine—
what matter ?) “ A Soldier and a Man.” (Always
the way—a red herring for the bridegroom’s
breakfast) “Just down the lane” (where she
dropped her gloves when they stole from the
madding crowd for five minutes’ fun at the back of
the old washhouse where she first waved her hand
to him through the chink in the slabs.) “ Chinese
Refrain.” (No need for the cabbagee, lettucee,
young 'n’yun wall-eyed Confuoian to call round
there. No Chinese need apply.) “ Little Birds are
Sleeping.” (And why not ?—let the turtle doves
go to roost, and bill and cco their little love songs
in each other’s willing ears. ’Twill not be so in
the sweet “ buy and buy,” when the bills come in
for things she “ must have.”) “Curtain.” (Yes.
mosquito curtain, of course, everyone has it.)
Now. if all these items, collated in the simple style
in which they are arranged on the programme, do
not suggest onurtship and matrimony, the names
of the vocalists afford proof positive of this in-
tent. To begin; “Will Hugo (she went.)
“ Amy Olive (Amy, O live for me). ‘‘Gardner,”
—(of their little Eden, to he sure.) “Wesley,—
(Honest John, of glorious memory, or one of his
disciples to tie the knot.) “ Wedlock, —(No,
Matlock, hut no matter, it means the same, they re
both wed.) ‘‘Rowe ’’—(bothin the same boat now,
husband and wife, with many a row, o’er life s
deep river drift or Rowe, to rest, in peace, the turt
below.) And if this is not matrimonially inclined
from start to finish, let us stick the grey goose
quill into the hand of Hymen—we go to drive a
cab.
* * *
The second part opened with a triple song
and dance by Misses Nina Tullocb, Hetty
Croucher, and Olive, and, in this item, for
the ilrst time, we saw three ladies meet
on a common platform and agree—they agreed
among themselves, with the orchestra and with the
public. And so is dispelled the illusion that there
is no unanimity between women. Is no illusion to
be left us—is nothing true but the gas-meter?
And, let us ask another question—apropos of Miss
Nina Tulloch’s item, “The Swell of the Day.”
How is it that women dressed as men are generally
charming enough to captivate even their own sex,
while men, clad in the apparel of the last work of
God, succeed only in holding themselves up to the
ridicule of their own and the mirth of the opposite
sex? We do not know. Once, years, long years
ago, when life was a golden cloud with a laughing
lining, we put up a joke on a new chum. Sent him a
note, covering a lock of golden hair, asking him
to meet his unknown admirer at 9 p.m. Some of
the boys were let into the secret and rolled up to
see the fun We donned feminine apparel and met
him. Tho boys saw the fun; we saw nothing after
the first blow. Lor’ what a left he had: he wastift.
3in., and weighed 2131 b. We have since adhered
closely to the divided garment.
»* » m
At Sydney Academy, Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, under the management of the urbane
Smythe, still attract good houses, or, perhaps, it
would be more strictly true to say, good people
and many of them. We did not notice any houses
present, but the other papers say it that way
and sometimes we fall into the same error. Space
permits not a detailed notice of the capital bill-
capital even for Hiscocks’—but we are bound at
least to say that “ The Carington Craze,” a song
written by Lance Lenton, and exoellently sung by
Bent, took the fancy of the house, though the S.M
Herald young man, and some other dismal
authorities, “ can see nothing in it.” Why should
they ? there may be a C.M.G.-shlp fall some day
into the ranks of the rule-and-stick people. After
Henniker’s expected knighthood, what may not
happen ? The Herald says the song is merely a
parody of Rickards’popular song, “Harry,” and
the clever young actor who composed it claims
no more than this. But he does claim that, in a
democratic country, such as ours, the disgusting
servility and beastly toadying everywhere
apparent since the arrival’of the, perhaps, rather
too genial gentleman who now governs N-S.W.
must-or ought to be—as hateful and ridiculous
to him as it is, or should be, to every one of the
free and independent. [Query: Are there now
any free and independent?] The item suggests
the possibility of a suspension of the worship of
the one true Deity in favour of our local lord.
* * *
Dunbar was in rare voice, and when we
saw his name opposite “Sally Horner” we imme-
diately thought of little Jack Horner, the Christ-
mas pie, the thumb, the plum, and so on. Crushed
again. The ditty was sentimental, though lively,
and as the off-side point of the vocalist’s moustache
aimed always to the O.P. side of the house, and a
fair little maiden on that hand was reading her
programme upside down all the time, and, as Dun-
bar was (Well ? Ed. B.)—OhI nothing. KeeDan
and Moynham’s alliteratively titled “Kransy Ko-
loured;Koons ” held the item of the evening, a
glove fight between “Jimmy the Pigeon” and
“ Sam the Slogger.” As each man was killed in
the fourth round, it is fair to presume the wager
will not be delivered until the resurrection. War-
ner’s specialities, like a healthy vaccination, took
well (this is also new', and “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,
re-painted by Lance Lenton, followed.
* * *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” has been re-painted
so many times lately that the divelling of the
original U.T. has adopted a coat of Brunswick
black out of respect to its own memory. Legree, the
man-eating slave-smasher, is in this edition an
asthmatic man with the hand of a lady, and the
muscle of a spring chicken, who gets badly
knocked out on each occasion of his making any
aggressive remark to Uncle Tom. Little Eva is
concealed in a summer costume beneath the 72
inches of W. Ball. Amery is the little Harry
whom Eliza vainly tries to carry away to a place
of refuge, but overcomes the difficulties by wheel-
ing him along in a barrow; the bloodhounds are
swapped away for a pet poodle of Sam Keenan s
just about big enough to clean a lamp-glass with;
and instead of the murder of Uncle Tom and the
ascension of the old blackfellow to the realms of
glory the “ tableaux ” picture, “ Lord CariDgton
welcoming .the immigrants,” a difference at pre-
sent apparently without much distinction. Other-
wise, the plot of "Uncle Tom’s Cabin” is rigidly
adhered to.
m# * »
The Masonic Hal,l Sydney, is taken for a
benefit to Mons. Leon Caron, on Friday, the 19th
March. The names of the intending performers
are good enough to bring buahies from the blaz-
ing Barcoo or meandering Murrumbidgee for the
pleasure of one night only, so the result should be
a salve to heal the wounds which the popular con-
duotor received during the time he engineered
the, to him, disastrous Olympic. Further par-
ticulars next week.
** * *
Fryer’s Equescurriculum is working
through Victoria, and will be at Albury on the
13th and 15th March. Bart. Willison, who was, we
think, once with the “ Stray Leaves, is acting as
press agent for the show.
•* « *
“Boccaccio,” at the Melbourne Opera
House, was inaugurated with “popular prices.
The experiment is well advised, for the manage-
ment here has an uphill battle to fight a£ a 'nst
such a fashionable novelty as the “ Mikado, lhe
troubles inseparable from feminine, managemest
all the world over, which resulted in the sudden
disappearance of Miss Lottie Montal and her hus-
band from the scene, have certainly not weakened
the prospects of the Opera House company.
“Boccaccio” goes in vastly better style than its
predecessor, ‘ Madame L’Archiduc.’ No . one
character monopolises all the fat, but the
music and business is liberally distributed round.
Miss Annette Ivanova appears as the persecuted
student in this revival, and works with unflagging
spirit. Her figure and bearing are well adapted to
the character, and there is a refreshing absence of
effort about her singing. Fianietta is now played
by Miss Minnie Fischer, who has only recently
turned from India and Emilie Melville. India 8
loss is Australia’s gain. This Fiametta is a shape y,
stately young lady, singing, talking, and generally
behaving herself with a coyness and refinement of
manner intoxicating to all the y oung men under
60 in tho solo, “Oh, love,” and the billets-doux
trio in the second act. Miss Fischer was especially
dainty. Miss Ethel Harcourt, who appears as the
cooper’s wife, has leaped into leading parts. She
was a mere page without a title in the first repre-
sentations or “ Madame L’Archiduc.” Now she is
a whole volume in herself, and most beauti-
fully bound, to be sure. Miss Ethel is young,
good looking and vivacious. Her voice 13 pleasant,
and with a little more training and stage experi-
ence the new star will take the shine out of some
of the older ones. Elderly new enums will take a
tender interest in Miss Harcourt for reminding
them— although she is rather taller—of Nellie
Power in her earlier days. Mr. Appleby is popu-
lar as ever in his rather over elaborated rendering
of Lambertuccio; and Messrs. Kelly and I erey
Shannon are satisfactory as Cooper and Barber
For continuation of “Sundry Shows,” seepage 13
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS OF
-class
ORIENTAL NOVELTIES.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket,.. 4/-
Seal .. 4/-
Send
for the sol
Bracelet. 8/-
„ 10/-
„ 12/-
M 14/-
.. 16/-
Bov. Purse 4/-
Match Box 4/-
Scarf Pin.. 3/-
■a ,|... 2/6
3/-
4/-
6/-
6/-
4/-
Albert
Charm
Studs, f. set 3/-
„ 4/-
„ 5/-
„ 6/-
Keeper ... 2/6
Gem Bing 4/-
Buckle „ 2/6
Diamond „ 6/-
Brooch Set 5/-
„ 7/6
„ 10/-
15/-
Crose, 4/, 5/, 6/-
Locket, Ladies ... B/-
„ .. 10/-
Bangle
Earrings
Albert
Necklet
15/-
3/-
*4/-
, 5/-
15/-
20/-
.25/-
. 5/-
Watch (Ladies’).. 30/-
„ (Gent's) .. 30/-
Brooob, frm 1/6 to 10/-
gold Gem King ... 8/6
Keeper „ .. 7/6
Wedding „ ..7/6
Waltham
Watch £8 8/-
9 9/-
10 01-
II 11/-
Up to £5O.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
Sendfor
4 10/-
5 01-
5 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0 /-
he Silver Waltham Watch 3 10/-
3 0 1-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T miss this chance.
ORIENTAL 60LD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
A handsome (Mental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no Jess than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 474 George-street, opposite
the Markets.


PEPPER AND SALT.
MORE TROUBLE.
“We understand that Lord Capel, who
will serve in the capacity of aide-de-oamp to Lord
Carington, Governor of N.S.W., is shortly to arrive
in Sydney Ev. paper.
We've got Lord Bartie who does spell
His cognomen, Lord Bertie—
A pleasant youth, as ail know well,
ADd much this side of <lO.
List! soon in Sydney there will dwell
Another aide—one Lord Capel.
The se youths, now let us simply tell,
Our mental food are—staple;
Supposing he is not Capel,
But dubs himself, aw, Capel.
Oh, horror, if from bad to worse—
But this demands another verse.
If Bertie’s Bartie—(groans and tears)—
Our intellect does topple.
It may turn out this youth, for years
Hathltermed himself Lord Copple.
7M SURE Yt A/A RE 5 QU/TF A
///Cf PARCEL
//oty j>e jpo ”
P IT " ,
™ !HE l!l
that i® 01 ”
orrm/ '^Sz
Pf -RAf/T /// TO CARRY YOP# MUS/C
A Catastrophe.
Sweet Lord, we, on our knees, implore,;
Don’t please, fetch over any more.
* * *
Hanry Ward Beecher says—“ There is
many a horse more deserving of immortality than
t man who owns it. Why shouldn’t they have a
chance hereafter ? I don’t know but what they
will. That is something I don’t know anything
about.”
We do not know that such things may not be—
That dog, or horse, know no eternity,
But tbis we write, and stamp it with our seal,
There are folks dead who once loved much to
steal,
“ Converted ” they with angels tune the song.
Though even now a horse would “set them
wrong;”
A.nd much we fear if one they got in baud,
They’d fly straight down to hell and heat their
brand,
Would fake a plain TE to bold NB,
And start to riot in Eternity,
So Beech., no horses, in the Promised Land,
Unless each arml registers his brand.
“ H.lt.H. the Prince of Wales has tasted
the Victorian wines which have arrived for the
Exhibition, and has pronounced them excellent.”
—Argus.
‘‘Old Love. The time for advertising is
past.” We 6ighed as wo read that cold-blooded
ad. in theAxuius. It emanates from a maD, we
fear, and what bitter, bitter feminine tears must
it have called forth! We are indeed sorry for
Poor Old Love.
Ay, past and gone, Old Love, alack’
The human heart Is very fickle;
Though once you might have brought him back,
Old Time, with bis relentless sickle
The early flower of love has mown,
And in its place fresh flowers have grown,
We guess you’re in a pretty pickle.
When first, Old Love, you twain fell out
And he went off, his anger rising,
Now, what on earth were you about ?
To us it really ssems surprising
That you should let him koep away,
■ And mourn his absence day by day,
Yet never think of advertising.
“Return, and all may yet be well—
Ido repent me of my folly; ”
That might have fetched your errant swell,
And you had still been blithe and jolly;
But oh! you let the chance go by,
And now you sit at home and sigh,
A martyr meek to melancholy.
“ 3 he time for advertising’s past
Bad words, so very cold and chilliDg!
And has it come to this at last—
Your Barkiss is no longer willing ?
The moral learn, ’tis very plain—
When next you love and less again,
Put In an ad.; it’s worth a shilling.
A Melbourne gentleman writes to tho
Herald in sad distress, ne says that numbers of
young men and girls assemble at the corners of
certain streets and use language, which is “ at
times ” offensive—“ especially to respectable peo-
ple attending the churches in the neighbourhood.”
This must be put a stop to. The It P. who attend
churches must be specially guarded from con-
tamination. Museums, libraries, and pubs, have
been closed on Sundays out of respect for their
feeliDgs, and the loud mirth of tho larrikins cught
to be shut up also. But let us try a little mild ex-
postulation lirst.—
Misguided, young fellows, take warning ;
Misguided young maidens, take heed ;
You must cot stand about in the morning
(Nor yet in the evening, indeed)
At earners, on Sundays, expressing
ldsa3 qui.e unfit for a Turk—
Vulgur wor-ls are so very distressing
To people attending the kirk.
Your conduct don’t matter in cases
Of p ss'rs-bv taking «. walk—
The colour won't fly from their faces
Through ' rror from bearing you talk;
But when th~ church clock in »he steeple
Strikes one, try to copy the smirk
And behave in all ways, like the people
You see coming out of the kirk.
Now bear this in mind and dissembls
(Like villains you see at the p’a:).
Ye youDg men and m Uda who ts:emble
At corners, on Sundays, we pray.
Abstain from remarks rough a"d ribald,
Which danger might p.ubably work
To people, black-coated and bibled,
Who’d hear ’em-returning from chutch.
It would sedui; now, some doubthas arisen
as to which of Lord Carlmgton’s aides will be the
next contributor to the evening Ucho, a littlo
HUMPH!
Did His Royal Highness mean it, did he really lind
it good—
That sample glass of claret which Sir Cunliffe
Owen stood ?
Was it clean upon the palate, of a flavour full and
pure ?
We’ve read and read that telegram, and still we
are not sure.
It doesn’t say that Bertie took his cheque-book in
his hand
And gave a special order for some very special
brand;
Although he called ’em excellent, ’tis on the cards,
we think,
That a very close observer might have twigged a
royal wink.
We’ve tried those hocks and clarets, and pro-
nounced ’em “ very nice,”
But ’tis worthy to be noted that we didn’t do it
twice;
And much we fear that Bertie, too, will faithful
still remain
To hoeks produced in Germany and sherries
sent from Spain.
He may take the glass they otter him, and hold it
to the light—
Discuss its splendid qualities, and—put it out of
sight;
But if he really likes it, why, in wonderment, we
ask,
Does the telegram not mention that our Bertie
bought a cask ?
m ■ 0
A SYDNEY NIHILIST.
They found him in a boiler laid,
A scamp of little note,
But yet his ncse a solo play’d
Would 6Ciie a Pyrmont goat.
His lightest breath exhaled stale beer
Loafed at the “ Rose and Crown,”
A star—tho midnight shy was clear—
Winked through the manhole down.
A smell stole from a neighb’ring sewer
So pungent, full, and thick
That on its bosom, lightly borne
Bobbed up r.nd down a brick.
Tho wharLrats in their gambols frisked
Among his clothes and hair
Through labyrinths and mases where
B tch hole was thoroughfare.
Beneath, the tide the wharf-piles laved,
A ship's bell rang hard-by;
The morning breeze her cordage waved
And crooned his lullaby.
They shook him up, and “ through him ” went,
Bound nought to criminate,
Except the glazed crust of a pie
Cribbed from some hash-house plate.
’Twas hard as adamant, next eve
Eich rat by it befooled
Slunk up the drain to Wynyard-gquare
To have its molars pu'led.
The tramp was ta’en before the beak,
Of six months’ care was rid,
Becmse destructive things were found
Within hiii clothing hid.


paper published In Sydney, in conjunction
With the Herald. This uncertainty is occasioned
t>y the Government House sentry (the one with
the Hannibalic chin) having picked up the fellow-
log fragment of M S., running across the back of
which were the words—“ Referred bac”—evi-
dently part of an ordinary editorial note, which,
in full, would read—“ Referred back to the author
for revision.” So far as we can make it out, the
fragment of paper reads as follows:
“The Kilten of the Captain.
“ To tell the truth, I am not much used to do
any writieg, except letters to acquaintances,
fA
s&^
m
CoNSTfcßNAllotf
’* &HAWL BE 'MmE-
D-vrgv/ Burned in W.
oF SuCH
IER
O U>
• (0 # ° K Co M V» °°
Do you meon to I'd] -mG Hid' y<?UH3
{dul cyn in I'hc, meaho
Why Icould dv 'arj'-a-crouvn a-
Cd ?-or Ikm (a''U."
TuE HUIAKN6
PttUCBMNW W«0
DCSH*6S 1&W
Rls Dl/fy CAW
Cfl n TH£xl AIV
EUTHANAS'IA.AW
\sAvt himself
to
MgjLMTtrEn
-fne AdicLE appea^ d Eiver of The
Bt£* 'N JEPUAKDy
Tfof H(/rMAKE
(EXCUSE THEsg t£xfQ |
Some Sydney Doggerel.
and cheques payabul to self, which is easily spelt.
I don’t consider literature what the book calls “ an
agreeable relacksation from ordinary duties.” My
man Kopstark says I ought to begin this:—The
rain was coming down a docker, and the liten-
ing whistled ore the tented field—hut I. feel
thh is too gordy-r-Kopstork is an honest fe!
low, but a little forward, but 1 allow him a little
extra freedom as he was bred on the estate. His
father was %& ears on the eelatx—had a little
farm— and even to this day the family allow him a
screw of tobacco, and a peony rtamp a week, in
the Union. This won the such a good eiorey as
G-ascoia’s, but he didn’t tell all the truth about tbs
lion who never froax on to the foot of a private
until he was tired of rolling the officers about the
oamp in casks. To return to the kit.”
Here it ceaßes; at a point, too, where the interest
begins to be really well sustained. Wo have, how-
ever, said enough about the gallant aide’s literary
effort to cause it to be looked for by the more
cultured portion of the reading public with no
small amount of pleasurable anticipation.
* * •
The man who wrote and said he’d shoot
the Prince of Wales unless the Prince sent him
£SOO, has got seven years. The Prince, said the
Judge, wished the prisoner to receive a light sen-
tence, but he (Mr. Justice Denman) couldn’t take
that view of it at all; and Mr. John Magee was
accordingly treated to the little dose we have
chronicled. JSo cne who has read the case could
have the slightest sympathy with Magee. He Is
aboutthe sickest criminal our attention has lighted
on since ft was directed to the intrepid desperado
who robbed the bank be belonged to in v eibourne
by night, only to have the pleasure of digging up
the plunder for the detectives in the morning.
There is something in< xpretsibly ludicrous in his
thinking the Prince was actually “fooling” him
with a bag of farthings, and his second letter
developesthe possession on his part of an intellect
even below the average of a Carcoar member-
Our business, however, with Magee and his
*’ missis ”is this: Bhe will, of course, never cease
petitioning the Prince for her husband’s release,
and in the result a par. will go the round of the
London papers to this (ffeci
“The Convict Magee.
“ It has been officially notified that John Magee,
who was sentenced by Judge Denman to a long
term of imprisonment for threatening His Royal
Highness the Prince of Wales, some few months
back, is shortly to be released, his health haviDg
completely broken down under the severe regimen
of Portland. Bemg much impressed with the
penitence expressed in the letters of the prisoner
after his conviction, it is understood that H.R.H.
lias graciously undertaken to provide the man and
Us wife with a complete outfit, and to pay their
passages to Australia,”
So. as a matter of fact, Magee may almost be
exp ected here any time. On his arrival ws shall do
our best to place our readers in the position of
being able to pay their respects to him. Only
these sort of fellows—being protdgds of royalty—
are, in a general way, confoundedly particular as
to whom they associate with.
The growth of "snohisra” in Europe is
artfully encouraged by royalty. Kings and
princes, not to mention queens and prinoesses,
have began to realise that in middle-class “snob-
ism” is thtir strongest defence against the sneers
and contempt of Democracy. The most fashion-
able mode of caterirg for snobs Is by means of
charity bazaars “ under distinguished patronage.”
Such gatherings are the breediEg-grounds-nay,
the very forcing-pits—of what the “hupper-
tuckles” termg “.’oyalty,” and the people pro-
nounce “grovel.” Call the sentiment what you
will, one thing is certain—that the Highnesses of
Europe (and their representatives in Australia)
are labouring hard to cultivate it. This par.
is suggested by the sickening intelligecca that
"the Grown Prince of Prussia snmared at
a charity bazaar in BerliD, dressed in the garb of a
pork butcher and sold German sausages at 50s.
each." The Prirce, probe by, wts almost ignorant
of the very mine of the chirpy he w«s be-
friending, but he seiztd on this is a favourable
opportunity for patronising a useful cI'SS For
the people who delight in sausages sold to them by
princes, flowers plac d iu their buttonholes by
princesses, and lolly peps dohd out at a guinea an
>unce by grand duchessts are indeed i.s ful to
the monarchical institution. Where, in these gra-
i ualJy-becoruing-eD lightened days, can you find a
stauncher friend of tinsel loyalty. than the msn
who cries, “Long live the Princej he QKCC 80l<J
me a sausage for 60s ? ”


respectively. But to tell the truth, some of the
old-fashioned fooling: of the masculines In “ Boc-
caccio ” is rather too acrobatic to please audiences
that have been educated up to Gilbertian humour.
A little might be judiciously pruned away from
the first act. Mr. Albert Brennir is very fairly
Rood as the Prince, but a Mr. Edward Allen con-
trives to be rather obtr sive as Leonetta. He
sings well enough, but for talking purposes his
tones require moderating and modulating. Unin-
tentionally he vulgarises his character and destroys
the harmony of the scene now and again. The
dancing and posiDg of the Duvalli sisters lend a
tender interest to the third act, and bring a good
many opera glasses into request. There appear,
too, to be bonds of sympathy between male fre-
quenters of the circle and lady members of the
chorus. An entente cordiale of this description is
laden with promise for the management. There
is money in it.
** # *
Melbourne has gone stark, staring mad
over “The Mikado.” The management disdaius
such hysterical ads. as “ Triumph complete,”
“Superb mounting,” “Everything redemanded,”
&c., but is content to mention that seats may be
secured “ Four weeks in advance. ’ ’Tisa wide
marg n to allow for enthusiasm, but exceptional
events must be met by exceptional measures. And
as it is generally understood that any circle seat-
holder dyiDg before the appointed day comes
jound will have his money returned at the door,
the public are putting down their i leces in confi-
dence and ihe booking is “unprecedented.” With
one exception, the leading characters are played
by the Sydney originals, and a smooth perform-
ance was guaranteed from the outset—
The Nanki Poo
Alone is new;
’Twas formerly played by Boyle,
But Harrison,
He carries on
As Poo at the Melbourne Royal.
Reduced to dull prose, this means that Mr. Boyle
“took ill” at the last moment and Mr. Harrison
took well as hii substitute. Not too well-
out just well enough. Criticism at the old
nands would be superfluous. That the or-
chestra—with Mr. Alfred Cellier in the chair—
is all that it should be, goes wilhout the saying.
The triumvirate must be indeed happy. They
have a bill which they can always renew, and the
public will always accept. No wonder that Mr.
Williamson, as he watches the nightly struggle at
the pigeon-holes, murmurs gently, “ How well I
play my card 0.”
** * *
Mr. Anson made his first appearance before
a Melbourne audience iu “ Forbidden Fruit,” at
the Bijou. This is described as Dion Boucicault’s
larcical comedy, but like a good many of Dion’s
"originalities,” it is probably adapted from the
French. A particularly unsubstantial trifle is
“ Forbidden Fruit.” Zulu, the Flying Fairy of the
Trapeze, is consumed py a mad longing to attain a
rree ad. by appearing as a witnts3 in the "Brighton
Scandal Case.” In order to attain her giddy end
the Fairy, attired in a crimson plush mantle and an
exuberant “ improver,” eills upon Mr. Cato Dove,
junior counsel (the bill pluralises him into council
—but, no matter), to Sergeant Buster, who is lead-
ing on one side or the other. All the trouble of
the comedy results from this visit. The youthful
Cato bad been a model husband until the lair Zulu
1 lunched an assegai in his susceptible heart. Bus-
ter, on the other hand, is not a model husband, and
at bis instigation a Cremorce Gardens supper
party is arranged. Cato invites Zulu, and Buster
sends one of bis little notes to her "lady friend.’
The jest may be surmised. The gentlemen en-
counter the usual comedy difliculties with their
wives, and finally Caio is landed at Cremorne
alone. Of course his wife comes and occupies the
next room with her milita>y brother. The
wretched man has never previously seen the
brother, and he suffers that mental torture-when
he sees his wifey pifey kiss the martial stranger—
which many married men would suffer and many
would not. Disguised behind a false nose and an
apron, he waits upon the apparently guilty pair.
His Identity is discovered, explanations ensue, and
everything is endiDg blissfully, when Zulu turns
up—all appetite and smiles—for her little supper.
The Buster arrives, followed by his not unnatur-
ally suspicious spouse. At this supreme moment
the military experience of Mrs. Cato's brother
provrs invaluable. He explains—naughty boy I
that he invited Zulu. That damsel, apparently
approving of the Captam’a appearance, accepts
the situation; husbands and wives are reconciled,
and the curtain falls. How Zulu and her new
admirer enjoy one another's society is left to our
imagination.
* • •
Mr. Anson made an excellent impression
as Buster, a character evidently intended as a cari-
cature of that other, Sergeant B„ who appeared
for the “ Claimant ” in his civil suit. Costume,
face, voice, manner, bespoke the man gro *n grey
in devoted service of the sex. No comedian of
the day can fill the stage as Mr. Anson does. But
he is something more than a comedian His
original Bcum Goodman, in “ Clancarty,” froze our
very marrow in the happy days, long departed—
when we had a marrow. To Mr. Brough, as Cato
Hove, falls most of the work Mr. Brough is an
experienced exponent of virtue led astray, and he
is ever popular. At times, however, his humour
is rather forced, and he scarcely loses himself iu
this character. Mr. Frank Oates makes a most ac-
ceptable Captain Derringer, both his style and
appearance have acquired robustness of late, with
eminently satisfactory results Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner is Imposing as the long suffering Mrs. Ser-
geant Buster, and Miss Trevelyan looks like a wife
who might reasoaably expect her fellow dove to
be always billing and cooing. But the bar was
ever volatile. Miss Emma Chambers plays the
perilous part of Zulu (alias Zazel) with delightful
daintiness and discretion. Her business is being
shot out of a cannon ©very evening till further
notice, but this performance doesn’t take place iu
view of the audience. ’Tis a pity. “Forbidden
Fruit ’’ requires one or two incidental shows to
give it tone. We timed it to last two hours from
start to finish, inclusive of a couple of exasperat-
ingly long waits. Such scant dramatic fare will
never fill a theatre.
a •
The Melbourne Opera House is filling
well at “ popular prices.” This reduction in fares
is well-advised, for the management has an uphill
battle to fixht agaiust such a fashionable novelty
as the “ Mikado.” Toe troubles (inseparable
from feminine management all the world over)
which resulted iu the disappearance of Madame
Lottie Montal and M. Poussard from the scene,
have certainly not weakened the prospects of the
Opera House venture “ Boccaccio ” went in
vastly better style than its predecessor “ Madame
L’Arohiduo.” Miss Annette Ivanova is singing
and plaving in quite her best form, and Miss
Minnie Fischer is a valuable addition to the com
pany. Sne made a shapely and stately Fiauetta,
singing, talking, and generally behaving he, self
witn a coyness aad refinement of manner intoxi-
cating to all the young fellows under 60. Miss
Ethel Harcourt, too, has leaped into leading
parts. She was a mere page without a title
in the first representations of “ Madame L’Archl-
duc.” Now she is a whole volume in her-
self, and most beautifully bound, to be sure.
Miss Etbel is young, good looking, and vivacious.
Her voice is pleasant, and with a little more train-
ing and stage experience, the new star will take
the shine out of same of the older ones Elderly
new chums will take a tender interest in Mi s
Harcourt for remind ng them— although she is
tador—of Nellie] Power in her earlier days
Messr . Appleby and Brennir find a good deal of
fav our here, so does a Mr. Edward Alien. This
gen tleman is best when he is carolling. For talk-
ing purposes his toms require moderating and
mo ulauug. Tnere is a very good chorus at this
horse, and, “taking eue consideration with
ano her,” the season is likely to prove successful,
i t spite of an unfortunate start, “M»nteaux
Nor s ” i« toe new bill.
Wour.E S schnapps is imitated. May tills
caution be serviceable, Avoid all imitations.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The chamois is to be introduced into the
N.Z. mountains. Mark Twain, after a trip to
Switzerland, characterized the chamois as a fraud
and described it as the common house-flea....'
Forged bank notes in circulation at Newcastle.
Fivers mostly. The operators are now pursuing
the even tenner of their ways. ...A calico ball will
take place shortly, under the auspices of a N.S.W.
cricket club. An indiarubber ball would be more
appropriate —James Nesbit, the father of Thomas
Nesbit, shot with Moonlight's bushrangers at
Wantabadgery, has been arrested in Melbourne
for burglary. He has a record of 20 convictions..
The Bulnaia (Sdy.) Observer has found a new
name for Baron Carington. It speaks of him as
Vice luOyaly. This must be Italian for James
Smith. It isn’t Eaglish for Cbriogton....Hinder,
the late Tumberumba bank manager, who fired
into a crowd of tin-kettlers, on New Year's Eve,
will be tried at Wagga Sessions next month.
Wolfe, whom he shot, is hoplessly paralysed..
A Napier (N Z.) policeman, an Irishman, of
course, at a suburban race meeting, asked to
see the permit by which the totalieator was used,
and on being shown the telegram signed by the
Under-Secretary, he protested that it was not the
signature of G. S. Cooper, which he knew well
We regret to notice the insolvency of Mr. Wal-
terus Lebrun Brown, of the Wileannia Times.
Debts, £lOl7 18s. 6i.; assets, £ll3 Is. 61. ...Ruth
Robinson and her sister, charged with poisoning
the first-named's former husband, Burkitt, at
Roma, in 1881, have been committed, although the
analysis of the contents of Burkitt's exhumed
stomach discloses no poison-traces Townsend,
a Cape Grafton (Q.) selector, has been killed and
eaten by niggers The Orie it Company is build-
ing a 6000-ton ship, an improved Austral, for the
Australian trade; the Pacific Company is building
two similar vessels also for this trade; and the
Messageries Company, which meditates a fort-
nightly Australian service, has six more splendid
vessels on the stocks... .A carpet-snake was re-
cently found on the Auckland (N Z.) racecourse.
It is supposed to have come over in a case of Aus-
tralian wines. Death in the cup We read that a
Kimberley (W.A) surveyor broke his leg while
riding a “ bear”-(sic)-backed horse. The horse ran
against a tree. If he had been “ bear ’’-footed he
would probably have climbed it. ...A vegetarian
society has been organised in Melbourne. Where
in the caboose of the green-grocer can so much
nutriment be got for one penny, as lurks under
the hide of the stale poloney ? Froude doesn’t
think much of young colonials: he met on shio-
board a number who had money and leisure, and
were vain, ignorant, underbred, without dignity
and courtesy, and with conceit enough to crowd
space. Embryotic C.M.G.’s, in fact “ Where to,
my lord r” enquired the cox'en of the Vice-regal
galley, as the German warships steamed up the
hrr our. His lips quivered a moment, then in a
firm voice he cried—“ To Pinchgut; there let us
hoist the Bt.aii.dird’'... An order has, at length,
been given for the interment of the Bunnerong-
road ►keleton. He, it appears, maintained his
reticence t'll the last; and, though waited on with
an electoral roll, was silent on the subject of
where his vote was A. French adve.:—“ A
banker, wishing to extend his business, desires to
procure a sum of 50.000 francs either through part-
netshipor marriage. Would prefer a partner."
8o would most men.
* * *
The Liverpool Weekly- Courier of Nov.
21 says:—“Four missionaries and 5200 gallons of
rum left on the same sh'p to interview the native
African. We don’t see how he cm get away from
both A Turkish colonel with the troops on the
Bulgarian frontier has been sent to Constantinople
in chairs, and five generals are under arrest for
seditious language in the presence of troops. We
understand that they said the troops should be
allowed something to eat In 1881-2, no less than
788,622 landed in the U.S. from Europe Tn 1885, the
arrivals fell to 387,811—among them 123.293 Germans,
51567 Irish, 18,178 English and Welsh, 21 994 Swedes,
...By the late amnesty for Press offences in Spain.
1209 prosecutions will be stopped 25 journalists, and
authors be released from prison, and 15 recalled
from expatriation Pressmen seem to have almost
as lively a time of it in Spain as in N.S.W 28
prisoners w ere convicted, after a trial of 20 days,
of having been connected with a revolutionary
league at Warsaw. Six—including a juged in-
struction and a captain of engineers- goc death by
hanging ; 18,16 years each of hard labour In the
mines (worse than death); 2,10 years andB months
each penal servitude, with deportation for life to
Siberia ; and 2 to simple deportation for life to
Siberia. No actual crimes were alleged or proved
against these martyrs —3,000,000 skeletons in the
Catacombs at Haris—ln 20 years Gustave Dore
earned £280,000. A morning’s work has been
known to realise £400... 6)000 000 speak German,
45,000,000 French, and 1C0,000,000 English... .25
monuments to Napoleon I. are standing in the cities
of Franco, despite the Commune and Revolution...
In Alsace, at the close of the marriage ceremony,
the bride takes off—we must say the word, or else
we can’t tell you any more—one of her garters,
which she hands to the best man, who ri;o3 it up,
and gives a piece to each of the guests as a
souvenir... It is reported that the Indians and
half-breeds are makiog preparations for a big
rising in the spring to avenge the death of Lou's
R el. Yankee traders are selling them v<?st quan-
tities of ammunition. .. .The village of Perrivale,
E bing, Eng , contains 13 souls. For looking after
their eternal welfare, a fortunate cleric receives
£360 a year, and is provided with a residence nearly
as large as the church itself. No wonder the par-
sons object to Disestablishment English Tories
are strong against boycotting, when practised by
Irish peasants. When they practise it themselves,
it- doesn’t seem half so wicked, somehow. At
Kiogsbridge (Davon), they have boycotted the
local barber, the ironmonger, and the tailor, be-
cause they are Radicals— fn the rich quarters of
Paris the births are 11 per 1000; in the poor quar-
ters. 465. This explains wny the population of
France only doubles itself in 165 years, while in
Eogland the increase of one hundredfold occurs
every 57 years —Joseph Maas, the great tenor,
has just died of having slept in a damp-sheeted
bed “It’s no good, mamma, I can't wear the
boots; my toes can't breathe in them” The
Eaglish consume five times as much tea as coffee;
the American, eight times as much coffee as tea.
..Bam Jones, the American revivalist, remarks:
“ God won’t keep a young lady pious who has her
waist encircled seven times a week by the arms of
a soider-legged dude.” When a girl is in that
blissful predicament, Mr. Jones, she doesn t sigh
for an other heaven. This earth is paradise
enough for her—“ There I” said the “bookie,”
as lie places an empty glass on the oounter, “now
I feel fit for breakfast.” “Don’t you think,”
asked an enquiring stranger, “that liquor on an
empty stomach is ia bad thing." “Oh, yes; but
then I didn’t drink that on an empty stomach.
That’s the ninth whisky I’ve had this morning.”...
An Englishman met an American recently, a«d
after some conversation asked the latter woo he
was. “lam a judge from Texas,” was the reply
“Oh, ah, yes. l know,” said the Britisher, “I have
heard ot you before. You are Judge Lynch, I
suppose” —ln the m-ntal arithmetic class:
—Teacher: “Well, James, suppose your father
b•• a borrowed £lOO, on condition of paying back
£25 yearly, how much will he owe after three
years’tun* ?” Jamas; “£100.” Teacher: “Why,
bay, you don’t know even the elements of arith-
metic.” James: “ Yery likely, but I know dad...
Counsel for plaintiff: “ Come, now; ia it not a fact,
that you oaUled plaintiff an infernal rogue and
mean hound?” Defendant: “It is a faot; but I
never said it’ Brooks: “Since when have you
been engaged?” Snooks: “Not engaged, deah
boy.” Brooks: "What makes you wear that
ring, then?" Snooks: “Bcare off the gals, deah
boy*’
The “Sydney Women’s Prayer Union” are
going to petition Parliament to put down “the
blasphemous use of the Divine name.” It is
only a few months ago that a chimney-sweep at
Yass was sentenced to 20 lashes-he didn’t get the
lot, as he fainted and had to be.out down at the
twelfth—for using the sacred name lightly. What
do these fervent females want—the rack, the
fagot? Strange Whenever any specially savage
proposal is in the air a woman will mostly be
found promoting it. Eugenie carried the war
resolution, and then started otf to beg little dainty
silver saints to help Prance while her poor brat
was obtaining his fiery baptism. Ah I If these
“ Prayer Union ” lad es would but attend to their
husbands’ buttons and let rne Celestial folk look
after themselves, what tidal waves of proianity
would be avoided I
Read this. “A respecbable-lookiDg man
named George Boscobel was brought up at the
Simpson (N.S.W.j Police Court charged with being
of unsound mind. A p cket-book found < n him
contained a bank deposit receipt for nearly £3OOO,
besides notes, go'd and silver to the smoui.t of
about £200.” In the mors Ug, half-an-hour before
the court opened, 1500 of George's relations were
waiting outside the court house ready to take
charge of the lunatic and the “loot.” Tne patient,
however, having completely recovered during the
night, appeared in such a condition of solemn
sanity after breakfast, that the inspector had him
discharged ia the magistrate's private room, and,
poking him out by tne back door, bade him flee
for h!s life. The relations gravely sat out the
court house p ooee uqg in expectation of subse-
quently sacking their poor demented kinsma* ;
and it was only when they found themselves
foiled that the trouDlel condition of their feelings
was properly revealed. Fuch a roar went up as
has not been heard in Simpson sines Teece
threatened to resign; and it was many hours be-
fore the city could t e ieduced to its normal condi-
tion of quietude and order. Kelatives on horse-
back and on foot being out scouring the neigh-
bourhood, the capturo of the lunatic was regaraed
by some as imminent; but a number of the
relatives are not without a dark suspicion that
George is still detained a captive in the lock-up,
and that the constabulary are squandering his
wealth in consultation tickets and pewter watches.
One i elation offered a distinct compromise to the
P.M, in wriliog, and in these terms:—“ime is
hunkel you can have the boddy—'and me hout
sum of the stuf.”
The pious “ Strong ” squabble— during
which Melbourne Presbyterians have wept, raved,
and alas! sworn-has produced some deplorable
results. We thought we had done with the Soots’
Church congregration and their much-mar yrisad
pastor, but no—the worst has yet to be told. De-
prived, Jby a bigoted presbytery, of the spiritual
ministrations of the Kev. Charles Strong and his
lieutenant, Mr. Duds, the Scots’ Church fiock ap-
pear to have got into a bad, bad way. A certain
Mr. Dick pain s a gloomy picture of the present
condition of affalis “ Members of the congrega-
tion,” says Mr. D., “now find that their sons and
daughters do not caro to go to the Scots’ Churcr,
and one lady told him ihat her little son sdd,
‘ Mother, why are we not so religious as we once
were? ” Now, here s a pretty how-d’ye-do I
Whole Christian familiescrquetttng with damna-
tion because they can’t be conducted into the
kingdom by the shepherd of their choice. Sick
souls refusing spiritual medicine because their pet
docGor isn’t allowed to prescribe for them. But
even the plaintive query of that little boy dis-
tresses ui iesi than the news that “in another
family a daughter, who formerly attended the
Scots’ Church, had joined some such sect as the
Plymouth Brethren, while the eon now went to
hear Mr. Freethought Symes.” Think of that—it is
the outcome of Presbyterian bickering. The
young man in question became so bewildered ss
to the correct way of serving God that he could
only obtain mental relief from the doctrines of
Mr. Joseph Symes, who c inched the matter by
telliDg him there was no God at all. The wcr.it
thing of all has yet to be told The Pov Charles
is having a new church built, to seat 2000 people,
and to cost £15,000. It is to be built by a Hebrew
architect—Mr. Nahum Barnet, that well-known
and talented young gentleman haviDg secured tte
work by competition.
The Rev. George North Asb, of Sydney,
has! been championing the stage as a foice for
good in the land. He denounced the entertain-
ments provided under the patronage of churches
as stale, flat, and unprofi alia.! True, |0 Kii g,
with but one unimportant txcifion. They are
“flat” and “stale” enough, but not unprofitable
—to the churches. Take the bazaar, for instance,
with its pretty maidens, who rusn the unsuspect-
ing stranger to rob him with little rallies which
are never drawn, and art unions which do not
come to a head, and the many other devices to
entrap the unwary fly which enters all too readily
into the net of the bustled and bustling little
human spider. There must be profit somewhere in
this thing, or what becomes of the gate-money
and the raffle-plunder ? Take, again, the average
church canoert Fiat enough, isn’t it ? except
just where it should be, iu the music occasionally,
sharp, though at the door where the check-taker
has never any great amount of change, but is
willing to explain that it is just a swindle in the
cause of the church, and drops one’s half-crown
into the box, handing him a two-shiliing ticket
with a smile which is more unctuous than a bene-,
diction. Then think, gentle fiiends, of the intellect
tual profit accruing the audience from these latter
festivals. How “ The boy stood on the farm-yard
fence, whence all but he had fled; the flames
which burnt his father’s bam curled gaily o er his
head. T here came a burst of thunder sound—the
boy, where was he gone? Ask of the winds that
far’around strewed bits of meat and bone, anl
marbles, tops, and little things as scraps of cord
and yarn—the relics of that awful boy who burnt
bis father’s barn.” And the youcg lady who
warbled “ Put me in my little bed,” and the
audience rose as one man and prayed they would;
aud the hero who wanted them to “ Let him like
a soldier Jail,” and whom we have depicted in
another psga Ah, ci mrades, we have been there
and have flashed out to buy a little gun and give
bim a cbanca of going home to glory with a bullet
iu his manly breast. But never again, love, never
again; when next we want pure, unadulterated
woole-souled, four-star enjoyment, we shall go
with Cardinal Moran to the Soudan Encampment,
or some similar place of religious entertainment,
and gaze upon the figure of a maiden with a bronze
penny in her gullet and the fear of the Lord in her
heart, swinging in mid-air to the musio of “oweet
spirit, hear my prayer ” Then we shall retire to
our ’bus fully convinced that the trapeze, as a
moral and puysicai elevator, runs rods ahead of
the throne of grace, and that Charles Clark, G.
North Ash, ana Dion Boucioault, ought to stand
on a triple platform till the Hon. C. Cowper,
High Sheriff of N.S.W, (see English papers), gets
time to pull the bolt These three gentle-
men could do a triple pedestal dance—on nothing
—with great eclat. One is a splendid poker player,
the other a hymeneal artist of no mean celebrity,
and the third and last a rival of Lytton Sothern—
in that he is a North-un, and, like good tobacco,
will eventually burn to a white ash—when he is
cremated. A gentle tinkle on the ten-stringed
lyre:—
Ay, Ash,
You’d smash
Your own eoneern up;
The stage,
In T-a«rp,
You'd never burn up;
You’d blast,
iii.oast,
Seilgious meaning;
And i rom
Piatfo-in,
Be mwrals gleaning:
But North,
Is’t worth
The pulpit’s offer
To be
You see
So hold a scoffer 1
Ah not,
’Twere rot,
Yoar cart we nick it
Yowpassin on a “Free
List
Ticket.”
Wulfe’B Schnapps taUen occasionally is an admir-
able remedy agaiusfc coughs and colds. Accept
nothing but Wolfe’s.
A
WONDERFUL
WATCH.
THE CORRECT TIME,
for
THIRTEEN AND SIXPENCE.
One of the chief signs of the progress of the aire
in which we live is the rapid improvement of
machinery, and its tendency to cheapen the re
quire merits of modern life. Fifty years ago for
instance, only a rich man could own a watch, ’and
the majority of mankind were obliged to calculate
the time by the sun’s altitude, the village dial in
tae old churchyard, or a generation further back
by the hour-glass. To-day, however, the import-
ance of time obtains wider recognition—not only
as a convenience r a luxury, but as the absolute
essence of business, and a reliable timekeeper is a
primary requisite alike of the merchant and his
clerk, the employer and the employee, the school-
master and the pupil, the young and the old, the
rich and the poor. A timepiece of some sort is
positively indispensable. Only a jewelled watch
timed to split the seconds is a luxury. A good
serviceable, reliable watch is a necessity—the first
requisite of social and business life—and such a
one is the “ Waterbury,” the cheapest and most
reliable watch in the world. Tne Waterbury is so
cheap that everybody can afford to own one, and
its cheapness arists from the supreme simplicity
of its construction. Because it is cheap, however
don't regard it as a toy or children’s watoh. It is
equal in appearance, finish, and accuracy to the
most expensive article, superior in strength and
durability, and will cost less to repair than any
other. The Waterbury is in every respect es-
sentially the watch fcr the mechanic, the olerk
the miner, the bushman, the working man—in a
word the watch for THE PEOPLE—and is within
the reach of all.
“The Waterbury.”
i
/
s
BB1&89IW
Descriptively the Waterbury is similar in ap-
pearance and size to the Waltham, has a whi' e dial,
bevelled crystal glass, and is keyless, or a stem
winder—no fear of losing the key or leaving it in
some other pocket. As an evidence of the value
and reliability of these splendid watches, we are
now manufacturing over 300,000 yearly, all of
which are regulated and tested before leaving the
factory.
The WATERBURY WATCH, packed in satin-
lined case, can now be obtained through any store-
keeper, price THIRTEEN SHILLINGS and SIX-
PENCE. Do not be gulled by spurious advertise-
ments requiring you to send your money ten
thousand miles away, and wait six months for the
return; or pay exorbitant prices and rates of in-
terest for ordinary watches on the time payment
or club principle. Get your storekeeper or
jeweller to obtain one for you, and see what you
are buying before parting with your cash, and
never be persauded by the seller to buy any other
on which he gets a larger profit. We are manu-
facturing THREE HUNDRED and TEN THOU-
SAND annually, all good timekeepers, handsome,
accurate, and durable.
CAUTION. IMPORTANT.
See that the “The WATERBURT WATCH CO.”
appears on thefaco of every watch, together with
r>ur registered trade mark, the letters “ W. W.
Cp.;’’ without which none are genu.ne.
Those watches can be obtained from M’&REQOR,
HARRIS, and CO.. 260 George-streit : M'LEAN
BROS., and RIGG, 512 George-strcet; PLUMMER
and OWEN, George-street, Sydney.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Bydney; FELDHBIM,
GOTTHELH'and CO , Sydney; G. vv. BLaKK and
CO., Sydney ; LAZARUS, KOSENFELD, and
BENJ AMIN, Sydney ; M‘ARTHUR, A., and CO.,
Sydney; BRABY BROS., Sydney.
WATERBURY WATCH CO.
54 Margaret-st., Sydney.
A N
AMERICAN ON LAG HR BEER.
CLAUSEN’S.
CLAUSEN’S. CLAUSEN'S
CLAUSEN’S.
Theatre Royal Hotel,
January Slot, 1880.
“Messrs. Walker, Lamon, and Co.,—Gentlemen.—
Having had considerable experience in America,
where Lager is considered the national drink, I
have found Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer
superior to every other brand. I have had it on
sale here ever since its introduction, and am
pleased to state that it has given unqualified satis-
faction to my patrons, all of whom speak of it in
the highest terms, and prefer it to every other for
its brightness, flavour, and purity. From a trade
point of view, I have never had a single breakage
to complain of, or a bottle in bad conditioa, and
can honestly recommend it es a perfect Lager in
every respect. It is entirely free from sediment
and waste, and is undoubtedly the leading brand
in the market, and in my opinion will long remain
so.
“ FRED. W. FORSTER.”
CLAUSEN’S.
CLAUSEN’S.
CLAUSEN’*.
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
WAS VICTORIOUS AT
PHILADELPHIA.
PARIS,
NEW YORK,
aCCAS, and
SAN FRANCISCO.
CLALSEN'S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
INVITES COMPARISON FOR
_ BRIGHTNESS,
PURITY,
FLAVOUR.
CLAUSEN S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
PURE 18 PJRONOtrNCED TO BE
SPARKLING, and
REFRESHING,
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
IS OBTAINABLE AT
THE “ROYAL,’’ “ PFAHLERT’S,”
“THE LANGHAM,” “ THE THEATRE ROYAL,’
and at every HOTEL, CLUB, CAFE.
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER.
Kept on Ice at all the principal hotels in th<
colonies. Call for it, and take no other.


Mir. Dibbs is the bete noir of the N.S.W.
electors, and all the other Ministers have had to
cvnlain from the hustings why it was they joined
wm When Mr. Dibbs took the Cabinet to the
Country last year, Wright was the old man of the
sea who sat on the shoulders of Ministers, now
Mr Dibbi is in the same position with regard to
ma colleagues. Ia a general election his inclusion
in the team would discount its chances to an
alarming extent.
The other day, at Redfern Police Court, a
™unp.ss swore that he couldn't remember whether
Wd ever put in two years for robbery. Such for-
getfulness is not rare. Of the man who never fox-
- y*-y?<£- A_
m
m
~ /? »
i v Jy
4 n
I y^‘
QdMAiJ Qjuu , HujtJfoy ,
t *-
fbc / ,
m
! A6u[ faujttA, -3° rtty Au^,
I k~ c&hM/k; tA] CeUJtIJ. CL
I ClLx , J /C#/Ll-' -J tiSUUVK
TtiAx. Thu,, Cuhm, Ax VCIU. «w -
O&t Alx /
wL. ,j
Topics of the Time.
gets there is but one type—the Oriental (or the
Christian) mdney lender. Generations come and
go—Empires rise, decay, and their very memory
Perishes. But. with toe certainty of a comet, the
t welve-hundre'd-per shenter wiii be found b;pw-
fng his nose at sour door when the clock strikes
the end of the three dai s’ grace.
“Well, gentle men,” said His Excellency,
to- ihe Citizens Masked Ball Committ-e, “I am
quite wibi: g to atttnd our p rty But as thb
'‘■ncuyniio is to be strictly adhered to for half-an-
heur after c ur arrival, the question is what
cl ureter shall I . cpreee/’tV ’ the committee
turned its eyes away from tha Vie .roy’a legs with
a roubitd glance, aud were silent. Taeii a sweet
voice $£ hi# elbow murmured^”You Know the
last time, at Bandringham, Robert, that all N ithan
do—.” These words seemed to recall His
Excellency to a sharp sense of the situation.
“Gentlemen,” he said, addressing the committee,
with a rather faint smile, “ her Ladyshin coincides
with me in the opinion that this is a which
will involve mature consideration. You shall
hear from me, gentlemen,” pursued his Lordship,
glancing cautiously round, “per Aids.”
The champion cursor, it would seem, is,
after all, not a Yass bullock-driver, but a priest of
Western Yictoria, who, in exhortirg his lambs to
obey him and vote ecclesiastically right at the late
general election, is stated by the paper to have
Spoken meekly thus:—“For they who do not I
denounoe with the blood of upon my
lips; may the flesh rot from their bones, the grass
wither under their feet, their homes be made
desolate, and hell be depicted (sic) to their bosoms.'’
We can imagine how this, pleasant but ungram-
matical bit of humour would blister the souls of
'some of the “ independent ele tbors super-
stitious old narks. as worthy of being embraced
by the franchise as native hears. The rivereud
;j mtießi an should read the “ Jucadaw of iteirns ”: —
“ ihero never was heard such a terrible curse,
But nobody seemed a penny the worse.”
They won’t let Once a Week die in Vic-
toria (though don’t isQOw what qn earth has
become of our “Half Crown Wilkins” in
Sydney) for we have just received it, and quite a
giddy volume it makes, we can tell you. The gem
of the production is a sketch, “ Through Onion
Land,” by James Hingston, which is so graphi-
cally written that there may be sail to be a snetze
in every page, and a shower of tsars at its conclu-
sion. Why, this reminds us, don’t we have a
magazine? We used to, for “Sherry” Moore,
like the lady in “ Roughing it ” used to be
“ having ’em” all the time once. We remember
the last brochure. It had a Dale yellow cover,
and inside the portrait of Dr. Bidnam. with a very
liberal display of theatre curtain. We lost sight
of the magazine after this, but hava a dim re-
collection of seeing it advertised subsequently as
containing an article—(from the pen of * rfherry,
evidently) entitled: —
The Satirists Before Kolobargus.
We don’t remember seeing it advertised after
this.,.
Iu response to iavitations sent out by Mrs.
Dtf’gnan, *>f Deignao’s Hotel, Bourke, with the
otj-.ot of prom .ting peace aim goodwill, between
all creeds and parties,” some 40 persons sat down
to u ch ampagne supper the other evening. The
> romotiou of goodwill between creeds is the
very latest excuse lor quailing ‘gooseberry
Father Huggard, of Bourke convent proselytising
faaie, was the guest of the eveaing j hb made a
facetious speech, and sang an Irish song. Let us
sing:—
In days gone by, when each true knight
Couched his bold lance in rest.
And bore, for one pure maiden bright,
A riband with his crest;
’Twas then that men, both far a id near
Upheld the gallant's part,
Who fought the fight (to foemen dear)
For her who held bis heart.
’Tis ours, in these more cultured days,
To seek a cause for fight,
Hug-hard showed cause, to him be praise,
True father, you did right,
The biggest and fiercest of Larry Foley’S
grizzly bea.s has struck. When taking off hia
Head after last Saturday night s performance, he
observed, “ Bliather me av 1 11 kupe a wife an’six
cnildhar on sivin bob a day an’ wear fur Jike ihis
six iays» week whin there’s bricks to »>« wh- eied.”
Farkes says be “baa washed bis bauds for
ever ” of Butter.
Exercise aud a judicious use of Wo fe’s Schnapps
will keep youiu the best of health.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, stimulant
in the world. It is far superior to brandy cr.
whisky. m
x.. • ■. 3


ARIEF MENTION .
You are a liai! ” Expression quoted from
report of Melbourne Presbyterian Synod meeiiDg.
Parnell should marry the Queen, and the
eld< pt son be King of Ireland. Thii would settle
the Irish Question.
The tenterfield Stab says a certain candi-
date “had hia eye on halls aldermanic.” They
spell It hauls in Sydney.
At Rockhampton Police Court. P.M.:
Did you find anything on prisoner’s person ? In-
telligent Constable: Yes, your worship, his
clothes.
Alfred has come back to Sydney again.
Now look out for the “ Jernil of my Travils li-
the old Kuntry,’’ and “ Sum peple what I torked
to abrord.”
After the Sunday-school lecture “ Now,
is there any little boy who has any questions to
ask ?” “ Yes. sir; how much longer is this jawing
going to last ?”
Seven people poisoned at Glen Xnnes.
They boiled the pudding in the strychnine bag.
Very likely they keep the arsenic at the bottom ot
the family baking-powder.
Kaiser Wilhelm, who lias been giving
other people “fits” all his life, has now, so the
cable states, got “ fits ” himself. The old man has
long suffered from epilepsy.
The Sydney Highlanders have oalled for
tenders for a supply of “ undress uniform.” As
the corps is to be a kilted one, there should now
be a big demand for ffg-ieaves.
A Darlinghurst Assizes juror last week
objected to sitting in a capital case on the score of
“nervousness.” As a juror, we have never been
thus affected. The nervousness was reserved for
the fellow behind the spikes.
The Bundaberg people were deeply
grieved when, after telegraphing to Bishop Quinn
to come and open their new Roman Catholic
Church, they found the thing was impossible.
The bishop had been dead for several years.
“Hi!” oried a very fat member of the
N.B.W. Legislature one pouring morning, hailing
a ’bus when no cab was visible— 1 ' Hi, stop! i
want to get in.” L'he man touched his hat civilly:
“Very sorry, sir; but I couldn’t stop long
enough.”
At Hotham (Melb.), Patriok Lillis has
killed his sister's husband, one Byrne, on the
liimsy pretext that the latter had killed his (Lillis')
mother Australia is coming to a pretty pass when
a man is thus visited with death merely for having
Blain his mother-in-law.
A bush missionary, riding a very miserable
moke, r*ee»tiy appeared at Casino, ana on being
asked to have a drink, refused, saying he 11 was
following the Lord.' “ Well,'’ returned his would-
be host, you'd better hurry up, as you'll never
catch anybody on that horse.”
“ Well,” said one female patient to another,
immediately her Excellency Lady Bountiful had
departed after shedding around the refulgence of
her beauty and amiability, “ well, old woman, how
did you get on.” The poor patient burst Into
tears. “Notso much,” she moaned, “as a stiok
o’ tobacker.”
“Remember,” said the fond mother, look-
ing rather younger than her son, “that you aie
to behave like your father does when he comes
to a theatre.” “ Oh, mamma, may I behave like
that?” “Certainly, dear,” “Tuen I shall put
you into a cab and send you home, and take that
nice lady with the star in her hair out to supper.”
What’s that gunny-bag doing on the side-
table. Mr. Secretary ? ' enquired the chairman of
directors ot a well-known charity, as they were
awaiting the advent of the Governor. “Oh,”
replied the secretary, with a twinkle in his eye,
“that is to hold Lord Cariogton’s subscription.
There’s a van engaged for to-morrow to take it to
the bank in.”
Hon. G. R. Dibbs recently sent to the
Queen of Italy an album of N.B.W. photographs.
Mr. Dibbs, we barn, hes just received from Queen
Margherifa a letter with the following postscript:
—“Your Harbour is really Beautiful. Am deeply
interested in photo, of Sir Alexander Stuart. He
must also be very beautiful.”
“And now,” said the candidate, “I come
to the question of thel.raitway surplus hinted at
by Mr. Dibbs a few years ago. Well, what is a
surplus?” “I know,” yelled out a youth at the
back of the hall, “ it’s the thiog the minister wears
on Sundays.” “Yes, my friend,” rejoined the
candidate, “but with this difference—the parson’s
surplice will wash; Dibbs’ surplus won’t.”
From police court report in the Beg a
Standabd:— “ Mr. Gordon then came up with the
calf and accused him of stealing the cow, and
asked him what he meant by taking his cow.”
That calf which has thus been accused of stealing
someone’s cow must surely edit a paper down
there, or else work as an honorary justice.
Thus a correspondent:— 14 Advt. from S.M.
Hebalp:— 1 Wanted, two copies of Adam’s Curse,
by Mr. Copland. Wallace, news agent, William-
street.' I have a statuette of Eve and an empty gin-
bottle Will they do? What in phosphorus does
Mr. Copland want them tor? Is Cop-land a sort of
Charade for Squatter? Won’t some of my swearing
do? I’ll back myself for novel and high-toned
malediction against the field .—Scotty.”
The prinoipal exports of Bega, N.S.W.,
are agricultural produce and the amenities of
literature. The Bega Gazette thus refers to his
local rival:— 14 That goose-greasy luby was lately
standing in the street, with his mouth open, as
usual, trying to catch what our editor and two or
three people were talking about Noticing this,
our editor saw a chance to give the pup some-
thing to fetch and carry to his master, and,” &o.
Melbourne Punch has married (amalga-
mated with) that frivolous young female the Mel-
bourne Bulletin. The latter has got a huab-od
who won tbe able to keep her in luxury. Poor
old Punch! Alas that he, who was once a decent
man, snould be smothered in the embraces of so
slipshod a little slattern! But Punch is old and
shaky now—he is in his second childhood. He
dimly remembers Kiug David; he forgets January
and May,
BY PRIVATE WIRE.
“A duel with swords wa9 fought at Nice
on Tuesday between M. Polrary, correspondent of
the Gil Blas, and M. de Moudeon. The latter was
wounded in two places.” Now then:—
There are no more particklers to come
Of this startling and gory affair:
Brave de Meudeoa got scratched in the thumb,
And he cannot sit down in a ohair!
A marked peculiarity of the new well-offs
is to reia e anecdotes about the 14 lower classes ’
At Rockhampton recently a lady told her visitors
what happened thus:—“This morning I heard a
knock at the door. I opened it, when I was
accosted by a tall long fellow In chatter for all the
world like a monkey’s. I called my husband to
interview the long object, and wasn t I surprised
to hear them yabber away like a brace of apes. I
asked John the name of that lingo, and he told
me ’twas Qarlic, which was spoken only by the
Collaret Qnioivi— a kind of Scotch folk.”
Au outory has arisen because tea is sold at
the oroinary sales in Sydney at something under a
shilling a pound, a high-minded public deprecates
the introduction oi such tiasa into the oniony.
And rightly so, if it is trash—that quotation s?ts us
a-woucering. anyhow We ki .w very well ihit
we hav e been giving a swell William-street grocer
13 a p mad for this tea for a considerable period,
out wnat intrigue* us is tuis: Whit is the price
quoteo per lu. at the “regular iaies ’ for the in-
ferior artic e Wo purchase we. fely for the second
douliaiy maid anu the under-butler ?
Jud ;t) Witidcyor did a lot of gush while
antencing cbe boy George Train to lour months
hard labour. Trains offence was that he spit
another boy’s head oprn with a heavy bitten, and
..he boy Oiodo “The governor of the gaol,”
purred the Judge, "had promised to do all he
could for the boy, but he would again warn the
lad to have nothing to say to those he met in the
prison. . . . He would caution the prisoner to
r member that be was not one of the regular class
of criminals.” We think the keeping apart of
you g Mr. Train while in gaol is a very excellent
a-rangernent indeed; and certainly one that wil
no doubt be highly appreciated-by other
prisoners.
There is talk in London amoDgst Mr.
Stead’s friends, who are highly dissatisfied with
the literary gruel to which the papers have treated
that gentleman, of s'arting a penny London daily
for him to edit, with a capital of a quarter of a
million. The Salvation Army avowedly want an j
organ that is to—every morning - shake thunder ;
through the universe; and if they would only '
unc ertake to organise the newspaper on the same
principle as they do their other little speculations,
the suocess of the Morning Blast should be
assured. According to Booth, there is 70 per cent.
Profit on a Pair of hallelujah lassie's stockings
and 80 if the letter “ 8” be embroidered half-an-
inch above the shiu-boue.
There had “ bin a barty ” at Mr. Blank’s,
Parramatta, and Adolphus, a clerk in the local
bank, had been “the observed of all observers,” as
bank clerks usually are. He was escorting two .
buxom lasses home. On the way the trio passed
a large rambling building. Said one of the dam-
sels, “ My uncle lives there;” to which Adolphus
replied, in his own witty way—" Haw, he s safe in
the aw-arms of Morpheus by this time.” The
maiden dropped his arm, faced him, and with
bitter scorn flashing defiantly from her pretty
eyes o’blue, said in the most freezing manner,
My uncle doesn’t booze.” Then she left him to
ponder over rustic ignorance. For the future
Adolphus intends to give mythology a reit.
Snake-virus is very deadly this year. At
Narandera, N.S.W., the other day, one of R'sby’s
wood-carvers had ecoasion to chop a piece of
hollow box timber, and was not a little surprised
to see a big snake crawl out and resent the de-
struction of its humble abode by inserting its fangs
into the handle of the axe. To sever its head from
its body was, however, the work of but a moment.
Haugiog the trunk out on a sapling, our brave
wood-cracker returned to his “ graft.” But
imagine his dismay at finding the handle of the
axe swollen so much that he couldn’t get his
hands around it. So he sat down, and watched the
DISCIPLINE
(AT MOORE PARK).
FIELD-OFFICER (fiercely): "WHY THE DOOSE DON’T YOU SALUTE?”
VOLUNTEER FULL PRIVATE: “WHY DON’T YOU PAY ME FOR THEM BOOTS?”
rapid expansion of " that there handle,” which
oniy took five minutes to burst the axe.
Again, we see, the “leading daily paper ”
of S dney coolly accords the title of “ Doctor ” to
a cheeky ignorant who got all his medical educa-
tion in Berrima gaol, while occupied in the neither
arduous nor lucrative task of picking oakum
The calm way in which the N S.W. Press dignifies
as “doctor” every impostor who chooses to as
sume that prefix, reminds one of the Texan sur-
geon who once took a six-hour ride with a Texan
villager, who asked him a great many questions
about the remedies used for certain diseases then
prevailing in that locality, tin the following week
he had occasion to visit a neighbouring village,
where he found his recent companion with nis
shingle out as a full-fledged doctor. He had gra-
duated in that six-hour ridel
From a Reuter’s cablegram in the Sydney
daily papers, with respect to the Socialist
gathering In London Large bodies of police
were stationed at various points in the park to
suppress any outbreak of popular feeling.” And
we had foolishly thought that Constitutional Go-
vernment meant government in accordance with
popular feeling.
At the Newcastle (N.S. W.), School of Arts,
the other night, there was a very pretty little row
on the subject of the opening of the library on Sun-
days, and a number of speakers, aotuated by the
same liberal and enlightened ideas as the Trustees
of the Sydney Free Public Library, opposed the
opening, on the ground of the desecration of the
Sabbatn by the reading of novels which would en-
sue. A Mr. fiowtell seems to have excited amuse-
ment by referringto them (the n v>-)8) as “ Yellow-
backs,” a pretty conclusive pro. f that he is one < f
tnac large and intelligent elas* who judge thing*,
and books, by th 1 outside. As thb meeting de-
cided, b a la;gi majorfiy, a*ai st Sunday open-
ing, it seems that thoie whose tasce ortictio i ex-
tends .0 the -Vabbath oaj a e to oe o oh md to the
study of a worn., vhiou fur magnitude, variety of
subjoct, thrilling .acid nt, general interest, and in
some places, more th u Z tUe-que detail and r eal-
ism, is probably unsurpassed, a: >d certaiuiy unap-
proachable at tne price. No doubt some of the
r verendgentlemen, wno vot d against, “yellow-
backs,” will be only too giad to lead a copy to in-
tending readers.
Political
Points
Ten thousand more British troops ordered
to India. The great fight of our time draws
nearer.
Exaetly 200 Liberal candidates who ap-
peared in the Record s Black List as in favour of
Church Disestablishment have been elected to
the new British Parliament.
“I do not,” said Sir John Robertson the
other day, “as a rule believe in Governments
where two parties coalesce.’*- This Is refreshingly
candid. As he has been in coalition once, and re-
cently has tried to work the dodge again, this
avowal seems to show that the veteran really has
not a very high opinion of himself.
Dan. Mayne said at Bathurst (N.S.W.) that
some members would “ accept a portfolio in the
devil’s camp if only they could stand the climate.”
He need not have made a fanciful statement of
that kind, for It is well-known in Sydney that the
devil is very fully represented in the Assembly,
while “the world and the flesh” have delegates
in the Council.
It is generally understood that Mr. Tom
81attery (catch him resigning !i will accord Sorr
Pat a jlneral support. We have a certain authority
for vouohing bo little on part of his Eminence.
Who shall forget Tom’s defenoe of his Govern-
ment when he was Minister for J. vice Standard
Paint resigned. Such an ungodly cackling! Tt
sounded like three hens hidden In half an Irish-
man.
An English Conservative orator, after
speaking of Mr. Gladstone’s umbrella, recently
went on:—“ But. gentlemen, we, too, have an um
brella, and when it is unfurled it will speak with
no uncertain sound, and ere long will float in the
eye of day to a sure and speedy viotory ?” This is
better than the metaphor of our own Triokett,
the NS W. ex-Postmaster-General, who was
“hounded down by a sea of obloquy. ’
HAVE A CARE!
“Mr. L. Heydon has had so muoh pressure
brought to bear upon him to remain in Parliament
that it is probable he may accede to the request.”—
What, “pressure” bring on him—unkind!
Good gracious, now, who durst?
Why, Loo is but a thing of wind.
With “ pressure ” he would burst I
The Amerioan stockowners are combining
for an important move. It is protection in an
emphatic form. They propose to shut foreign
live stock out of the country. Having improved
their cattle, sheep, pigs, and horses by the aid of
British breeds, the coast farmers now want to
monopolise the business of sup plying breeding
stock to inland ranges and ranches. They there-
fore urge the impost of a prohibitory fee on
entries.
The present N.S.W. Parliament does not
command the respect of the Kiama Reporter. It
calls it the worst that was ever assembled in the
colony sinoe the establishment of responsible
government, and puts it generally that “ Such an
assemblage of inctpables and of men with soiled
reputati m.t tas seldom been seen before.” It
wuU'd pay any Government ro put that editor on
the commission of the peace, or give his ton, if
he have one, a tide-waxtership.
Lord Wolaeiey attended Kaiser William’s
jt 'ee at tho t x -em uof idt British public; Lord
H tout, w.s sent to represent the Queen asi x
at utAo expense) at the recent funeral of her
la oeape* tel relative, Don Ferdhnando (who to-
rn oed a tnruae to marry an Amerioan actress
w nad formerly b en bis mistress); and these
tv o crips, together with the Duke of Wellington a
v.sit to Spain on the occasion of the late King’s
funeral, cost the British Treasury £13,0001 -
The Queen gave £5OO to relieve the present
distress of the UDited Kingdom. Suppose there
were only 120,000 paupers—it is reckoned that 700 000
persons were supplied with iree meals last
Christmas Day in London alone—this Royal
donation would bestow on each starvling a fresh
n nnv roll. Enough, God wot, to inane those
120,000 Kollos rally round Her throne, and yell out
In rollicking chorus of gratitude—
“Ve’ll ead oontil ve boorsts,
Glin, glang, gloria (to)
Victoria! Bncoria!
Ve’ll ead oontil ve boorst.”
Ex-Hon. Riohard Richardson, a shining
light in the Orange camp in Victoria, was merci-
lessly satirised at the general election. It will be
remembered that six months ago he had to resign
his position as a J.P. and Executive Councillor in
consequence of a Board of Enquiry having found
that he wrote the signature of one John Carnegie
to an application for some land at Fish Creek, and
then attested the purported signature in his own
capacity as a J.P. In his electorate—Creswiok—
the political lampooner was busy at work and
placarded the walls with invitations to the electors
to be sure to give their own names, not “ John
Carnegie’s,” at the polling booths. Richardson
was kicked out.
The kingdom within a kingdom case is
being well illustrated by some of the recent aots
or the Irish National League. According to the
Dublin Express, “various estates have, inde-
pendently of their owners, been sold by the
National League. On receipt of the money from
the purchasers vouchers are issued, whioh at the
proper time will enable them to enter upon their
• properties ’ without further trouble.” Such sales
can be commented on in two ways. In the first
the illegality of the proceedings may be noted.
But in the second, the fact that such proceedings
take place must prove more forcibly than the best
oration of the hottest Irish patriot that the people
are ripening for the boon of complete self-govern-
ment.
An English workman earning 20s. a week
pays into the Treasury through customs and
excise duties 3s. a week. Assuming, as the Mel
bourne Aon does, that the average of three
children counts for one adult in the matter of
consumption, the workman pays 6s. a week into
the Treasury. Mr. Giffen, of the Board of Trade
proved not long ago that the taxation of working
men is double that of the rich. But he is far
under, as can be illustrated by the case of the
Duke of Westminster. The Duke’s income is £6OOC
a week. For him to pay 3s out of every pound on
dutiable articles the members of his household
should number 18,000. That is a clear piece of
arithmetic and proves a clear piece of class legist
lation.
Some recent utterances of the Rev. J. Alex
Dowie put the new Victorian Parliament in,
shockingly bad light. Dowie, speaking of the elec-
tions, said he had fully considered the matter, and
prayed over it.” Now, when Dowie prays about
anything it is pretty well understood that the
straight tip ” from on high is invariably forth-
coming. And the “ tip ” this time was that every-
one should abstain from voting altogether, as
there wasn’t a candidate worth plumping for.
There are a lot of people who came to the same
conclusion as Dowie without seeking inspiration
from the skies. We were so thoughtless as to ask
one man “ whom he was for ?” “ Who am I for ?”
and his eye made us tremble, “ Who am 1 for 1
I’m agin the whole lot I”
In Ireland, a boycotted landlord lives in a
state of siege. He often cannot buy a loaf within
50 miles. His family take outdoor exercise
armed and guarded by stalwart pouoemen-even
young ladies sketching, and picking flowers, are
often thus attended. His pet animals and stock
are poisoned. He cannot get a box of provisions
brought from the railway station. His hay is
made under police protection. One man stands
with the rifle while the other wields toe scythe.
The doctors are, whenever possible, prevented
from attending the wives and families of non-
nationalist farmers or labourers; even the P cal
midwife is deterred by threats from attending
patients. Old men and women of 80 have their
parish allowance stopped because they have
ohatted with a neighbour proscribed by the
League.
Mr. Froude is no doubt a very able man.
The more able the man, however, the more oare-
fid he should be in forming conclusions. When
in Vi toria he visited the country house of Sir
William Clarke, and stayed some days on the
estate of the landowner worth £160,000 a year. In
his new book he says:—“ I travelled afterwards
through Sir——s property. His tenants spoke
favourably of him, and had no wish to change
their occupancy into ownership. Mr. George and
Socialistic despotism will And no audience in these
oolonies.” In the first place, the tenants knew
Mr. Froude was Sir William’s guest. In the
second, their opinion on the respective merits of
ownership and tenancy is, even if it were candidly
divulged, too callow for use in a subject of world-
wide importance. In the third piaoe, the deduc-
tion drawn about Socialism in the Australia of the
future is a monstrous generalisation lrom the
solitary particular he had before him.
The Redferu Tim as does not oonsider its
member, Mr. T. M. Williamson, a success. The
forensic foghorn, it seems to consider, does not
go down in the House. We, however, incline
to the opinion that this criticism i uncharitable-
for, it must be remembered that it will take the
cleverest professional man a considerable time to
divest himself of those mannerisms which are fatal
to success in Parliamentary oratory. There were
for instance, little hopes of that well-known
attorney, Levlen, when he first entered the Legis-
lative arena, and yet now no member, perchance,
is more renowned for the splendid construction of
his sentences, or for the coruscation of wit and
fancy, which forms such a pleasing feature in big
Parliamentary addresses. And yet, at an early
period of his legislative career, Henry came very
..igb getting "busted.” Hot from the police
court on© day, ho rose, on of the moment#
to address the Hou-e, It w « a terrible moment#
Mr. Speaker,” blurted out Harry, “ i trust
that after the evidence £ shall adduce in support
of my case, you will have do hesitation in allow-
ing my client her £3 per week and the custody of
the oui Hero a salvo of cough.ng, and
Abigail, with a soul-Btirrlng shriek, were just
able to save h m.
THANKED BE THE GODS I
“ In an address to the electors of Bathurst,
Mr, Suttor says that wnen he was asked to join the
Ministry, the question he had to determine was
whether he should oonsider his country or his
party-ties first, He chose the former.”
Thanked be the Gods! Blow loud the trumpet's
blast, *
Behold we have a patriot at last I
No frothing fool, discordant in his ring,
But one who poses as the real thing!
His heart is sad; he as the winds does sigh,
“My country, oh, my country I is his cry.
“ Can money tempt me ? ’ this fine Patriot screams;
Why learn that I am 4 rich beyond the dreams#’
To me no Council meetings, sirs, are sweet,
With tow’ring soorn I’d spurn the Austrian seat,
Did I not know of Councils being a part,
I can pour balm upon my Country’s Heart!
“ True, Dibbs I did revile throughout the land.
And, now, In politics, we’re hand in hand.
What if I eat my words ?-a bitter oajke-
But none too bitter for my country’s sake I
What if I hound a poor tin soldier down
I serve my country and I gain renown I
Ala* poor land, mat sari, i.s so loud for aid
Behold 1 fly to nelp tnee—who’s afraid ?”
Tlmfiked be the Gods, &o.
“ Editor Bulletin,—Sir,—Bioce reading
lb excellent acilcls on ‘T i. l P«ycnent in The
B LL/ETIM of January 30. im ve received from a
ui . i/sn Aster living In Norfo r, England, & letter
of which the following is a copy‘ Q. s Blling-
hn ‘ , January, 1886. Dear br. taer and sister.-I
received ycur kind letter and 1 was glad to hear
you were ad well. We often talk of you, and we
should very much like to see you. We hope you
had a happy Carietmaa and wru have a happyjtfow


Year. Now, about ourselves. We are quite well,
and that is about the best news I have to tell, for
times are very hard with us just now. Men s
wages are dropped to 10s. a week, but as Charles
now sees after the horses, he gets lls. od. a week.
He takes 61. a week for his club and I take Is for
coal, and then we have the large sum of 10s. to
feed, cloth , and Bhoe 10 of us, so you can guess
we do not live very luxuriously. Ido notknow
how we are to do, lam sure. I have had Charlie
and Lydia at home from school six weeks for want
of shoes. I have one day’s washing out a week
and that is all lam able to earn till the spring. I
shall be so thankful when the weather gets finer.
My girts and boys are all fat and well, ana Annie
is ffOinß nurse to the schoolmaster s every after-
noon, she gets 6d. a week and her tea every day,
so that is a little help.’ This, sir, is the condition
of men and women in Christian England. A
mother of eight children must go out washing to
assist to drag out a miserable existence, whilst
the tithe rent of the parson of the village with a
population of 600 is a sum of between £BOO and
£9OO a year. I intend to get ‘Time-Payment,
printed pamphlet form, and sent home to England
for distribution It is, I think, the most forcibly
written article I have ever read on the subject.—
Respectfully yours, John Bridgman, BDyney,
N.SW.”
The Ballarat elections have resulted in the
overthrow of three old veterans, James, Fincham,
and Bell. John James we referred to last week
as a very old member of the Liberal party, and an
out and out Berryite. This time he had had the
offer of portfo io of Mines, and we had hoped the
great mining constituency would have given
him a show of quite another kind to wiad up his
career. James alliance with Gillies has been
made the most of by his opponents. Gillies
formerly worked in the Ballarat mines, and had
the miners’ support, but as soon as he smelt office
lie turned dead Conservative, and has remained so
over since. Fincham has represented Ballarat
West for nine or ten years. He tied C. E. Jones,
the memorable dealer with Moses Alexander,
at the last election, and got the seat by
a casting vote. C. E. Jones has beaten him
woefully this time, taki ig Eeoond piece to the in-
evitable Major Smith, who in concert With E. J.
Bateman, of the Ballarat Courier, has bossed
tne Liberal party for a dozen years. Bell, the
other defeated candidate, is a nonentity, and never
could be anything else. His successor is R T.
Yale, the bookseller, brother of W. M. K., the bar-
rister, and who has been dying for a seat the last
20 years. R. T. is a man of extensive information,
advanced radical views, and great tenacity of pur-
pose. It is to be hoped that the old chap will now
have an opportunity of airing his political learn-
ing in the right place instead of doing so ia the
little back sanctum, where be had to put up with
the contradiction of every species of political
sinner. Although the Coalitionists have carried
the elections generally, the number of Indepen-
dents and Oppositionists contains some of the
fiercest fighting men who have trod the Bourke-
street House of Palaver. Col. Smith, Jim Pat-
terson and C. E. Jones can’t exist much longer
without office.
The one great surprise of the Victorian
elections was the defeat of little Mr. Minims for
Collingwood I’he announcement of the poll
seemed to be a staggerer for even the free and
iadepc ident electors of Collingwo d Flat. Hiß
bitterest opponents never doubted tnat his
seat was secure enough, and when the dire result
became known remorse laid hold upon them.
Would the man they had put in hi 3 place be able
to speak for four consecutive hours upon a finan-
cial question, wandering adown long labyrinths of
figures where none dare follow him ? Would his
successor have the pluck to ohallenge a grant to
Sir Henry Loch, boldly stating that none of the
Victorian people knew anything about the
Governor, or wanted to know anything about
him? Alas! no. There was but one Mirams, and
the publicans have—politically speaking-slain
him. He and his historical umbrella have been
wafted out of the parliamentary arena upon the
wind of " temperance principles.” If Mirams will
hut take to beer he may yet have the Collingwood
larrikins at his feet. At present he is the object of
genuine oommisseratlon. His reverse so orushed
the game little man that, when the dumb-
founded mob roared for a speech, he, for the
first time in his life, failed £0 come up
to the scratch. But seriously, no Democrat in
Victoria has a better record than the indomitable
little senator. Ten years ago he was eleoted for
Parliament as a staunch Radical, and he has re-
mained loyal and true to his principles ever
since. We think Mr. Mirams has been infam-
ously treated! byjhis party, who owe so much to
his unceasing labours and advocacy. He was
fighting the battle of liberalism down South when
Chief Secretary Deakin had yet never been
heard or dreamt of, and he was pushing
forward Liberal legislation when Premier
Gillies—the man whom Victorian “Liberals”
now promise to maintain in power—was
retarding it in every conceivable way. When
Berry was flghtiDg for the popular cause, Mirams
was his most faithful and energetio henchman,
yet when Berry was forming his second adminis-
tration, he gave a portfolio to Mr. Mirams’ Colliog-
wood colleague, G, D. LangriJge, and left the
little man out, although the latter was an able and
useful man, and Mr. Langridge was a mere pigmy.
Editor Bui/LETitr. —Sir,—A remark on
Blunt’s (whoever he is) work on India, concerning
the discourtesy of Englishmen to native gentle-
men in India, appeared lately in The Bulletin.
Now, the Impression ought not to be allowed to
exist that a decent Hindoo or Mussulman
will dine at mess with the Sahib Log: They, tne
nigs., would not ;merely consider it infra (tig.,
but the first step of the facilis descensus it they sat
down with us. I have been induced to write
you this by reading a oritique in the 8. M.
Herald on "New india,” by H. J. S Cotton,
part ot which is as follows:—“ Again, ‘mission-
aries have dope their work bravely; but their
failure has been complete. Christianity is abso-
lutely powerless when brought face to face with
Islam. During my 18 years’ experience of Bengal
I do not remember a siagle Instance of the con-
version of a respectable native gentleman to Chris-
tianity. ’ ” I have apparently had a larger expe-
rience than Mr. Cotton, for l knew one swell (the
Rajah of Kuppoorthulla) who, with his brother,
professed Christianity. They were also Masons.
The former was cautioned to refrain bis step®/
from his neighbour’s (our) doorsteps, as we wer® '
notoriously immoral: the latter preferred chapat-
bagne to native liquors, and dined at mess antf
banquets. One more example. Cashmere, bb
loveiie3t part of the East, is ruled by RunbW “
Singh, to whose one-eyed uncle Runjeet Sinai'*.’ j’*-
sold the valley for £1,000,000 as a reward iffe
treachery to his own people. The Rajahs#® “ “
allow us to remain In the territory from .ii;;
her till 15th April, as, during these 1 , “ n ,
lects his revenue; and he knows we ’ ~
stop te his measures of collection If
We only guess at them, from throfacto,*
Word zulm is used indiscriminate'fey 1 7.7, wer
force, oppression, taxes, and cuczqnfto / w <Thnve
heard a good deal about a severe!, l( y
Runjeet used to cut off, at a blcw^tfo \j
as a punishment for theft-the3t ftoin
ment, mind you. The practicp.>a§, y “/li nt
respect. When I was in CashaipF.e s/
there was practically no thpitTtherg ' hm-r and
there one *ould see a "Wiugy ” (Wj/ Aere But i
have forgotten to say that
Of Jummoo and Cashmere fieeS Xy off ,mmoo the
summer, as there are many Inflow Xxe) officers
on leave then, and he does nor to ' v t t n Ce '°®r hH
seen by them; and he takes .good' V r V
staoles in the way of visiting J.wr .moo fromSeri-
nuggur.—Hiram Abide. imo ° trom sen
The question of the day in Adelaide is—
“ Who are the nine persons to whom Crooks, the
manager of the “ busted bank,” allowed (without
his directors’ knowledge) overdrafts amounting
in all to £llO,OOO. The names of the nine, accord-
ing to Mr. Salom, a director, "would have been
scouted for as many pounds as they had been
trusted for thousands.” We’re ready to wage that
when the names of the nine go up on the board,
every one of them will commence with Eben< zer
or Wesley.
She dumped hersslf into the harbour,
and on being fished up by a smart young p line-
man, and asked why she took the header she re-
plied, “ Because I want to go heaven.” “Upon
hearing which,” explained the intelligent blue
bottle, “ Oi immajitly took her to the lock-up.”
This was fresher, and better than the Bydney
D.T ’s antiquated yarn of the gentleman con-
nected with the wharf labourers’ strike, who was
I told to go to h—ll, and "thereupon,” as he put it,
j " I at once started for the office of Howard Smith
j and Co.” These specimens of want of " appro-
priateness ” are, however, more than paralleled by
an incident at last municipal meeting at Penrith,
N.S.W., when Alderman Besley complimented the
local library on a recent purchase of 300 “ beauti-
ful books,” and hoped they would soon be blessed
I with more, upon which Alderman T. B. Bmitb
proudly declared that the good time was beginning
to dawn already, for he had “made applications
for a Hansard, the Government Gazette, and
i Oliver’s Statutes! ’ All the hoi ary will require for
the next thousand years, therefore, will be a
cookery book, a scab inspector’s report, a ready
reckoner, and a copy of Sladen’s “ pomes.”
A N.Z. Bobby, with a conscience as tender
as a boiled chicken, summoned himself lately for
letting his chimney go on fire, and was sootably
and promptly fined by th 9 presiding justice.
Robert’s noble example was soon afterwards
followed by a squatter from the wilds of Waita-
rapa. The sheepist in question had been busy
with his flocks and herds, and quite forgot to
brand —we mean register—the latest addition to
the family circle until the lime for doing so, as
appointed by law, had expired. Then he tore htm-
seit away from his shearing and hastened to
rectify the little mistake. Oa applying at the
Registrar’s office in Wellington, however, he was
confronted with the difficulty that he could not be
allowed to nut the youngster through the books
of the office until he had been fined for bis
neglect. He wanted very much to leave town
by the afternoon train, but if he waited
till a summons was served and h's ca c e
came on in the usual course it would be some days
before he could get away. If he allowed it to be
sent after him into the bush it would be a very ex-
pensive procees, and would necessitate another
visit to town In this dilemma he thought of the
bobby, and straightway proceeded to the R.M.
Court, and took out a bit of blue paper against
nimseJf. Having sworn to the charge before the
“beak,” he got toe clerk of the court to fire it
right at his own bead while he stood shivering in
the dock. Having “ pleaded guilty up to the
knocker,” the “ beak ” fined him the usual
amount, with the usual alternative, and grinned.
The grin was duly reciprocated, the fine paid, the
court adjourned for refreshments, and after shout-
ing a buttle of cham-agne for the Bench, tats
i q natter got away to his wool bales by the
noon train. Now we know how to b mff a bobby next
time we get on a howling spree. We will swear a >
information against our owu personality specially
to suit tue occasion, before the soberest J.P. we
oan rouse up from an after-lunch snooze on a bar
bench, and when a Colonial Robert, swelling with
dreadful importance, comes along to lay his hand
on our shoulder, we will prove to him in blaok and
blue that the law has already taken cognizanoe of
our ease, and that her Majesty the Queen— gqble*
sher-has specially invited us to appear before one
of her representatives on a day and at an hour stated
and that we are bound to be there —and fail not at
our peril. And that night, instead of lying in an
odorous cell, we shall sleep on k door-mat with
our bead on the scraper, and breathe the balmy air
of the area, and bless the N.Z Bobby whose mighty
intellect first evolved the grand idea of one tak-
ing out a summons against one’s-self.
The Queen’s Proctor having, in the in-
terests of fashionable public moral ty i- terfered
in the Crawford v. Crawford and DUke divorce
suit, and brougnt about a r" he'rir;g of that cele-
br ted cause, it is now possible that Bir Charles
Dtlae will not visit Australia. But should he
do so he will not feel himself an utter stranger
amongst us He has given us. in his “ Greater
Britain.” some account of his previous visit here
over 13 years back His literary fame rests upon
• hat work and bis semi-allegorical one of " Prince
Florestan.” His political fame began with his
democratic diatribe* against royalty and its heavy
oust to the nation. The Queen was comical in the
way she regarded these attacks. * I often stroked
his hair when he was a pretty hoy—l suppose I
must have stroked it the wroDg way, was her
alleged only comment upon them, Urs is the
sole witty thing we ever heard attributed to
Queen Victoria, who has reigned for 50 years.
Personally. Sir Charb s 1s a flat faced man with a
head greater in breadtn than length. His ti<le
comes to him from his father, who was propriet or
of the ATHBNJEUM weesly review, which Sir
Charles Diike now owns Old Dilfee o tatoed the
‘•Sir” for his exertions in connection witn the
Crystal Pa’ace Exhibition in I*sl. The son
has helped his fortunes in two marriages.
By his recent one, with the widow of the
late Mark Pattison, he has added £40.000 to the
domestic exchequer, which is, as yet, unburdened
with a family. Like Lord Brougham, he affects a
great fancy for France, in the south of which he
has a show-place of residence. When the World
lately included a notice of him in its gallery of
“Celebrities at Home,” this French house of his
was the one in which he was posed by his inter-
viewer. The late divorce suit in which he was
made a co-respondent was brought by a brother-
in-law of Dilke’s first wife. It implicated Sir
Charles with bis sister-in-law, Mrs. Crawford. The
evidence was that of a lady who had opened a door
without Knocking at it, and who was, of course,
much surprised to find the room occupied. ” Just
as if you didn’t know?” was about tbe only ex-
postulation the inmates might have attempted
This lady was the one witness who should
have been forthcoming at the trial, but
was prevented “by indisposition.” The result
of the trial was very Irish indeed. The
respondent, Mrs. Crawfora, was adjudged guilty,
ana a divorce granted. The evidence was held to
be insufficient against Diike, and he went free.
What the people of England want to know is how
can this verdict be brought into consonance with
common sense ? Mrs. Crawford’s admission of
guilt certainly made Sir Charles equally guilty.
Sir Charles had promised his constituency to re-
sign his seat “if the verdict went against him.
He premised this when be didn’t know two
things The first was that he was only to win his
. lection by a majority of less than 300, ard the
second was that tnings would go as the did at the
divorce trial. "Y u cant, somehow, always
exactly teli’ in suen matters, instead of tailing
hack upon his constituency for their support aad
succour, he has preferred his election committee
and their opinion, which is, of course, a f riendly
one. It was too dangerous to go through another
election with his late opponent, Mr. Whitmore,
waiting outside for him. Our coming visitor was
to have been Minister for Foreign Affairs in the
newly-formed Ministry of the Grand Old Man.
Many would think that the result of the trial did
not show any incapacity in him for such office, but
he might probably have been joked too much
about it.
Ask for Wolfe’s
lnvigorant that, does not ovens?
sure and obtain Wolfe’s.
ie only alcoholic
mr the brain. Be
JZrs&sissssi sg&nsan
or SS^ssr
£& ed uSSrStS pftt:
street. Delivered reg- u *«fcy la to * natld suburbs.*
When your < >rdi ups vow Sch napps
*Snutae biwSf™ p» * is the only
For years the world has accepted Wolfe’s
Schnapps cordial tonic and invigorant In its
market.
The Bachelor Fair,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I was thinking, old fellow.
Just now when you spoke,
Of the many rough years that we ve passed—
Of the time ere the sun of
Prosperity broke
Through our sky with hard luck overcast.
Our sulky and pair are
'J he best in the street;
We both hob-nob with beauty and rank;
I wonder, old man, were
We ever dead-beat
Slinging clay from the Booligal tank ?
’Twas mighty close work when
We buckled to there
For a tanner a yard at the tip;
But, “ raddle and tar,” the
Infernal old bear,
Had ns both pretty well on the hip.
W’ed no money, and could
Neither borrow nor beg—
We were only too glad to “ fall to.”
You mind how old " Sklufllnt ”
Took me for a “ leg.”
And the wink on the quiet gave you ?
He wasn’t a bad old
Sort, until the day
Travelled round to hand over the cheque
And that trouble over.
Our game we could play
With the right bower always on deck.
What was it we made on
That fourteen weeks’ graft ?
Why, confound it all I you ought to know—
I think that, thrown in with*
The "cockatoo’s” shaft,.
About landed us thirty or soi
SUBURBAN TYPES.
THE AMATEUR TENOR.
We took with contempt, in
Our ten-guinea suite,
On what then made us chuckle "with pride,
And feel like two lords, though
The soles of our boots
Were lashed to the uppers with hide.
But you were a genius
At saving the blunt, .
Or at changing the hacks of our moles.
For tassels and frir ge on
The knees at the front,
Where the shovel had worn away holes.
But making a damper,
Or boiling a duff,
Was where I used to come to the fore
Why, what’s that ? Fou think I
Have chattered enough ?
“Well, old man, I will chatter no more:
For you, Tom, and I, now
Can never agree— x ,
You don’t seem those old days to regret,
Perhaps you are right, too,
But hang it, for me,
I believe I’m a vagabond yet.
This glitter and tinsel.
The “form ” and fine words,_
Appear somehow to weary my brain,
And I wi-h, now and then,
That the damper and birds,
And the freedom would all come again.
What, six? Surely not! How
The time has gone I
Come, man—lay the whip on the pair—
You must have bean dreaming,
Hoot! let us make ground,
’Tis to-day that we dine with the Mayor.
J.P.B.
Headaches, lowness of Spirits, &c , show
that the Liver is out of order—ln Wolfe’s
Schnapps you have the best remedy.
Pottery is the oldest, the most widely-
diffused, one of the most beautiful and progressive
of human arts. It is as useful as it iB varied, and
the varieties are innumerable, let anyone sit
and think and note down its many uses and kinds,
and having done so pay an inspection visit to Bray
Brothers’ china showrooms opposite the Joint
Stock Bank (a monument of high-art) and he wil.
And how vague is his knowledge and imperfect his
list of this continuous advancing art. There, to
be up to the timts. tbese providers of crockery—
generally so-called—draw from the world’s special-
ists their latest productions.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Look for “W.A.S. ”
in a Diamond on the wrapper. “ Wolfe’s Aroma-
tic Schnapps.”
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
886 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERT
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pist-str*si&t, Sidney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANJCB,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AMDJSOMPAIIY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sols Importers
BEALE AKDJBOMPAHY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


SOCIAE
Quite a crowd collected to witness the
ladies cricket match at Moore Park, last Monday
afternoon, and seemed to enjoy the novel sight
amazingly. But the costumes will never do. As
long as ladies persist in wearing crinolines and full
long skirts they will ever shine to any great ex-
tent at the game. Besides, they look clumsy, and
the fatigue of running thus overclothed must be
great indeed. The “ Soroccos,” who wore cardinal
and blue, striped skirts, blue jerseys, and jaunty
little jockey-shaped caps looked a long way more
picturesque than the “ Femleas,” who had not
preserved the same unity in their attire. It looked
as if the Sydney shops had run out of gold and
black striped cambric, and some had to be satisfied
with stripes of a different hue, and were obliged
to content themselves by wearing gold and black
caps. One—and only one—little lady wore a sensi-
ble dress. The material was deep gold and black
striped, the jacket made blouse-shaped, and
the short skirt hung in loose folds to the
figure, black hose and small cap to match
the dre3S. Certainly she was a very young
lady, and didn’t mind wearing a short dress.
The fielding was on the whole very good, the bal-
loon skirts proving that at any rate they were
good for stopping the balls, if for nothing else, but
the ladies couldn’t throw a ball even a little bit;
the batting was vigorous but rather “catchy,”
and there were a good many maiden overs—at
least, maidens over—but they picked themselves
up gracefully enough and didn’t seem hurt. They
all went to work as if they meant it, and if they
could only be reasonable about their costumes
there is no reason why they should not ultimately
play a match well enough to make it exciting. It
is rumoured that before the close of the season
they intend tojchallenge the Parliamentary team.
They seem to know where to find a soft thing in
the cricket line,
* * *
Herr R. Patek gave a pleasant two hours’
private rehearsal of his band at the Sydney Town
Hall one night last week, which was attended by
two or three hundred invited guests—all lovers of
music, as was plainly evinced by their sitting the
whole performance out. The band numbers about
40 performers, and considering what a short time
it is since Herr Patek took the affair in hand, they
do—well, if not wonders, at all events, remarkably
well. At times they were a bit crude, and didn t
always seem to remember that soft passages should
be played softly, but these faults are only whst can
be expected from so young a band. Kowalski's
“The fteservistes” match was given in a spirited
style, and Weber's “Peter Schmoll” showed
good work, though the oboes were drowned by the
clarionets. Von Suppe's “Forget-me-Not ’’was
much applauded, but as M'Mahon played the cor-
net solo which oocurs in the selection, the con-
ductor, in a big-hearted, graceful manner, took no
credit upon himself, but waived all honours over
to the soloist,—who, sooth to say, deserved all he
got. The “Devi's March” was chosen for a
finale, which was a bright and satisfactory wind-up
of a pleasant evening. It is a Dity if the Sydney
public fail to support this band, which gives such
good promise but as Lord UariDgton has approved
of It and espoed his approval by a yearly contri
bution of £25 it is more than probable that thosa
who have it in their power will follow his lead.
At all events, it is to be hoped so. Herr Patek is
an energetic and capable conductor, and deserves
every encouragement
* * *
All Saints’ Church, Terrace,
Brisbane, was the scsne of the marriage of Mr.
Arthur Kandall Foot, of Springsure, to Miss Alice
Henrietta Cooper, eldest daughter of the late
Stephen Cooper. The Lride, a pretty brunette,
wore a gown of ivory brocade, the plain skirt
being edged with arucae and train of cream satin,
wreath of | orange blossoms and lilies of the valley
and veil were worn. Six bridesmaids wore very
pretty costumes of cream Indian silk draped with
pale pink silk gauze, and trimmed with ribbons to
match. All carried bouquets of cream and pink
roses. The bride was given away by her brother,
Mr. Gilicuddy acting as best man. The ceremony
was performed by the Rev. C. Robinson, assisted
by the Rev. Mr. Wilson.
* * *
News comes to hand of a marriage be-
tween Miss Alice, daughter of Mr. Clement Hodg-
kiESon, of Melbourne, and Captain F. Busby
Warren R.N.. son of the late Admiral Warren, and
cousin of Sir Charles Warren
A successful fancy dress was given
lately at Mount M Donald, under the auspices of
the local cricket club.
* * *
The other day a well-known cleric, of
Sydney, made up his mind to get married. At the
part of the ceremony where the ring is brought
forward there was a delay in the proceeding while
the best man ungloved the extended hand of the
Mushing bridegroom. Quite an unique affair this
wedding was. *
Mr. C Huenerbein has just published a
new waltz, entitled the “Piateau Valse.” The
music is pretty, and Is well printed, and the out-
side cover shows a nice view of Lake Narrabeen,
Manl y* »
Mons, Kowalski left town this week for
the purpose of giving a few concerts at Grafton.
Mrs. Atkinson, Mons de Willimoff, and a lew
other artists accompanied him.
* * *
Bishop Moorhouse was presented with a
purse containing 1200 sovereigns at the Melbourne
Town Hall last Monday night. Lucky mau !
* *■ *
Mrs. Armstrong, the Australian prima
donna, leaves by the mail steamer ou tne 11th
inst, for Kurope, where she intends to pursue her
musical studies for three or four yearp.
Admiral Knorr was entertained by Lord
Carington last Wednesday night.
SOCIAL FIXTURE
Ethiopian and Musical Melange, by the
Davenport Minstrels, Me sonic Hall.. March 12
Sydney Owl Club's Garden Party, Sir
Joseph Banks’, Botany March 18
Mr. Lyne, at German ton (N.S.W.), ad-
mitted that Ministers differed materially on im-
portant public questions. But as against this
there is the tact tnat they are entirely in accord
with regard to the advisability of sticking to their
portfolios and appeadant salary as long as it is
possible t® do so.
One of the young members of the N.S.W.
Assembly hath a pleasant sense of the importance
of his position. When he goes North to visit his
electorate, he sends brief wires to the various
townships addressed in a comprehensive fashion
to “ Tne Public ” Usually, the local lightmng-
dodgers send the messages to the nearest hotel, as
the only •‘public ” known up North is that where
the rum is chained up.
Mr. Copeland (the N.S.W. Minister of
Lands) in nis Ea*t Sydney speech said, tnat as
Mr jjibbs had run the e >untry into hnaaeial
trouble it was only right tear, he ahcmd be forced
to stay in the Cabinet to h Jp tha country out
This is what the carl-headed Miuister for Lauds
calls poetic justice. Vhe theory is riK ht enouau,
except for tne fact that me univ .. s u opinion
throughout tne country is taat Dibos and Uelioit
will always go together. The member for Mur-
rumbidgee will be well pleased with Mr. Cope-
l&fid’s ocoDDSftl* No doubt ii© is willinsr, to sjiv©
his suffering country at the rate of £l5OO and the
usual Ministerial perks per annum.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— We had quite a nice day at
Sydney Association Ground last Thursday, when
the mechanioal and literary staffs of the Daily
Telegraph played a cricket match against the
Sydney Bulletin, But I must tell you we went
out quite prepared to see some wretchedly bad
play, for as visions of the Press v. Parliament
match were still fresh in our minds we had no
reason to look for better results this time. How-
ever, on this spseial day these men of letters
seemed to have beat the full force of their mighty
intellects on the game and played astonishingly
well, I assure you. For the nonce the compositors
forgot there was such a thing as type in the world,
the printers were perfectly oblivious of machines
and ink, the engravers made believe they knew
nothing of engraving tools, and—let me see, what
other kind of work is done in a newspaper office?
Oh I to be sure, the scribes—just fancy my nearly
forgetting them! Well, if you had oniy seen how
gallantly they fielded and wielded the bat, you
would hardly believe they were anvthing less than
tip-top professional cricketers. Perhaps this is
rather “ tail ” praise, as Ned would say,
but you know we are all apt to be a
little fulsome when we are pleasantly sur-
prised. I mustn’t forget to tell you that
the Daily Telegraph were the victors, and
I believe a return match is to be played very soon.
Just as we were about to leave the ground, a few
lady cricketers put in an appearanca and com-
menced to practise. We were induced to delay
our departure for a few minutes in order to see
how they* shaped” as cricketers, but dear, they
didn’t look a bit graceful in their ordinary walk-
ing dresses, and unless they make up their minds
to adopt a becoming costume, I do not think we
shall, any of us, care to go and see them play a
match. If they could only have seen them-
selves as others saw them, I am sure they wouldn't
have been so composed. Each time they threw a
ball their skirts would whirl around with the
exertion, in a most ungraceful manner. To our
feminine eyes, at all events, the sight wasn t
pretty, though I don t think the men objected, for,
hungry and tired as they must have been after
their exertions, we couldn’t persuade them to
tear themselves away, when we were ready to go,
so left them gazing in profound admiration on
the clever batswomen. Strange how different their
tastes are to ours I
I was induced by a wretchedly-cooked break-
fast last Friday morning to go and hear what Mrs.
Storey had to say upon cooking in her lecture at
the School of Arts that night— 30 that, if things
came to the worst in the aitchen department, I
should be able not only to suggest nice dishes
but to actually make them myself. Our present
cook, though good-natured enough, is wonder-
fully incapable; she is to very good-natured, how-
ever, that she actually allowed us to entertain
twice at dinner this week. But for this piece of
unheard-of amiability I heard her lellow-servaDt
bitterly remonstrating with her, saying that ‘‘that
was just the way girls spoilt places for others by
being so indulgent to their employers.” Now, I
thought to myself, If this cook who wa 3 so willing
to please could really cook, what a treasure she
would be I Well, then, I betook myself and a few
friends to hear the lecture, with the idea of retail-
ing to cookie the information I gained. I was
a bit disappointed tint oniy the plainest dishes
were talked about by the clever lecturers upon
this occasion, but as there is a right and a wrong
way of making even an omelette I gained some in-
formation. TUe hall was crowded t>y people of all
ages and classes, and of both sexes, and all the
time Mrs. Storey was lecturing her pupils were
cooking the dishes she brought into h.-r discourse,
which were then taken round to tie audienc3 to
be admired and tastei. Some of the articles—
the omelette for one—were rather too much
tasted, for when our turn esme to criti-
cise there was nothiog but plate left-this,
I should say, was the very highest proof of the
tootbsomeness of the food, nest ce pas 2 By no
means was the time we spent with Mrs Storey
that night wasted, though, of cmrse, she told us
many tnings we knew before, still I should like to
know how to fix up those hot, spicy, fragrant
French dainties which prove so acceptable to
toe men whose fatigued palates era ce lor some-
thing more than our plain every-day English dishes
Placo before an epicure oae of these plats after
his own heart and ha is as pliable as putty in your
hands—will grant youaiiy favour aimoit—wnilst
if he is asked to nine off plain he ge:s
irritable and bearish, though maybe he has the
grace to be ashamed of himself and tries to mane
you believe it is nothing bqt business worries that
cause the frown on his brow and the snappy re-
marks, when all the time the homely sirloin is the
sore point. Ho when Mrs. Storey finds it coa-
venient to give a few lessons on French as well as
English eookery, I, for one, will take care to be
present. Just think of our spending all this
thought and time in order to please those dear,
troublesome, exacting pieces of humanity—men
They ought to be very kind to us for it all, and
not too hard on us for our feminine weak-
nesses such as 5 o’clock tea, and dres3-im
prover, &c —indeed, they thouldn't.
Bome horrid man has again been denouncing our
tea-drinking propensities-says it injures our
health, costs a great deal of money, and is a great
waste of time besides. A waste of time, indetd!
Why, we must all have recreation of some soit,
and surely our kettle-drums are harmless enough.
As for the cost of the tea, just let them reckon it
against the same amount of whisky; andaboutits
being bad for the health. I don’t believe it a bit,
at least I don’t want to believe it, and its all the
same in the long run. They may just as well
leave us alone about the tea drinking, for life
wouldn’t be worth living without our aftern on
social gossip, washed down by the refreshing
beverage, would it ? I wish some one would warn
these anti-tea men that we snail be prepared to
fight them to the death before being convinced of
the barmiulness of tea, so tnat they might save
themselves further trouble about it.
Some of the tales which are floating around con-
cerning our Sydney servants are desperately tunny
—too funny to b9lieve sometimes; this, frovseyer, is
a positive fact. A lady was dressing for the last
Government House reception, but her maid who
was attending her was so surly and inactive that
the mistress gently enquired if anything ailed her.
“ Why, it’s just this, ma’am,” answered th 9 in-
jured one; “ you have been to the two last recep-
tions and I did think you would give me a holiday
to go to this one; it ain t fair a bit, you missussts
have all the fun to yourselves, and think we ser-
vants can do without.” The girl went to a re-
ception that day. but it wasu r t to Government
House, but to the bosom of her family, her
late oiisire s's establishment proving to > smal
for her after the above episode. And yet anotner
laugh for you: ffhe dom istics Delonging to a large
establishment being iett in caarge during the tem-
po ary absnee of the family, determined tney
w mid vary the monotony of thutr all too eaty
lives, and play at being members of the upper ten.
Accordingly the maids had their cards printed,
ana coaxed tne coachmaa to drive them to the
reception. Not averse to a bit of lun, coaohy
complied, and sure enough my ladies of the broom
and the wash-tub went through the formalities of
the reception, and enjoyed thomse.ves so
thoroughly that, when all was over, they could
not keep it to themselves, but allowed the
secret to ooze out. Consequently, they are now
looking for fresh employment. But now isn’t it
all too funny ?
The proposal to tax bachelors is really and truly
being carried out in France ( By the way, I may re-
mark era vassant that even the threat of the tax has
seemed to work well here, marriages this season
being wnusally numerous). But they not only tax
the offending man. they actually interdict the
wicked one's presence at all social gatherings and
oarties. They hold that unless a man has to
support mother or sister, no punishment is too
bad for him if he persist in a single life. Of
course there may be obstacles in the way of a man
marrying; in such case he is more to be pitied
than blamed, but if a man can marry and won’t,
he shouldn’t be treated like other men, for he is
either utterly selfish or possesses a heart no
bigger than a gooseberry, and is altogether a
person to be avoided. I can’t quite say I like the
idea of the tax, though. It’s altogether too
humi iating to us to feel that in order to escape
a tax men are content to marry us, whereas
if thry could have escaped with impunity they
would have done so. Where's the romance of life
when such things must be, and what’s life without
romance ? No, I don’t like the tax business.
Some of the silliest among us are wearing silver
head bangles just now, which are just enlarged
copies of the wrist bangles which were so fashion-
able a while ago Not more than three are worn
round the head at a time. In some cases, when
the face is the right shape, the effect is classical
and rather “fetching;” but a dear little round,
ro3.y face with a retrousse nose looked rather comi-
cal than otherwise in the Theatre rtoyal the other
night with her curly round head set in these silver
bands. Girls should really be more careful in
ad ipting new fashions, as in so many cases they
(the fashions) are only suited for a certain kind of
beauty. My liitle friend in the theatre the other
night, no doubt, congratulated herself Upon being
among the first to have her head gripped in silver
bands, but she cruelly burlesqued the style with-
out being in the least aware of it.
And here now I am at the end of my letter with-
out a word about the Sydney Liedertafel concert
of last night, and which was just lovely. Can tbe
helped now for I am too tired for another word.
Adio,
Your loving
MAB.
Sir Alfred Stephen has intervened on be-
half of the Sydney unemployed. He may, per-
haps, De able 10 get ’em a little flogging to do.
“Can we conceive of any man, animated
by the spirit of David, star/ding within the vesti-
bule of a theatre ? ’ asked the Rev. Mr. Rarnier, of
Sydney, the other day in the course of his tirade
[ against the immorality of the stage. We must
confess that we cannot conceive of any such
thing happening with the concurrence of a re-
spectable management. After this little jeer, we
proceed to print a story clipped from a Scotch
paper:—“ It was rather profane,” said a well-
meaning old lady to a young cleric, “what you
declared in your sermon the other day about
King David.” “ What was it?” was the natural
inquiry. “Well, after stating that the Psalmist
was a character who would not have been allowed
to cometotbe communion in any Scotch parish
kirk, you summed up by saying, * I am aware it is
recorded that David was the man after God's own
heart: upon this I have merely to remark that
there is no accounting for tastes.’” The young
cleric, h rror-stricken, hast-ned to reply that he
had never in his life said that, or anything like
that. But the old lady assured him that Phe hau
heard the story in many quarters; that it was
quite correct, and generally believed.
Hon. Wm. Taylor, Boston,
Our late senator, and now of the board of
health, says “ After three months’ use of
the Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood purifier,
internally, a id Cuucura and Cuticura Soap, the
great skin cures, externally, ana twelve years of as
constant suffering irom scrofulous humour of the
face, neck, and sialp as was evtr endured, I ean
say that lam cured, and pronounce my case the
most remarkable on record. I have been so elated
with my that I have stopped men on the
street who were i filleted, and told ttmm to get
the Cuticura Remedies and they would cure
them.’ -Boston Herald.
A MODEL YOUNG MAN.
A w-11 dressed young man entered the private
office of a bank and ssked for a situation. The
manager meets him, a kmd old gentleman. “Ah,”
said the manager, when he had read several letters
handed li nn, ‘ I see you a e well recommended.”
*’ Yes, sir, I have held many important positions.”
Thoroughly understand your business, I suppose?”
‘Oh, yes.” ■ Terse letters say your habits aiegood.”
‘They are, sir.” ‘’Don't smoke mean cigars?”
” No, sir.” ‘ Never was drunk?” “No, sir.”
“ Never? ’ “I only indulge in that delightful neotar
‘The St. Louis Lager Beer.' ” “Sensib e young man.
Used to teachaclas! in Sunday School?'’ “Yes sir.”
Wolfe's Schnapps—lt stands like
the one Alexander without a rival.
Vb. s>s Oouboz Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New 8ot"h
palest, Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
‘‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual oi
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney *
Now is the winter of the Counter-skipper ’s
discontent made glorious by the sunny smiles of
his fair cu toners who having encouraged him to
t9ardown half hisshopsweetly enquireif he‘hasn’t
g>t something just a shade lighter.’ And this re-
minds us that nothing bores the average husband
more than being compelled to go into a milliner's
shop and stand ps still as a stump while his wife Is
wading round in a sea of silks and satins. He’d
much rather stay out on the pathway, and wait-
even If it was half a mile to the next public house.
How different is the case when it is the pa iant
wie who is waiting-while the husband is doing the
shopping. Nothing could ever tempt her to leave
the shop door, especially when her lord and master
(as he is facetiously called by som«) has a penchant
for sli jping rou d the corner to “ see a man” or is
investing his caih where he wid get the best return
for h s money, viz , Summerileld and Co., 235 and
237 Bite-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands at the head of all tonics
as a supreme remedy for dyspepsia, rheumatism,
uervousness.
A 19til century philosopher who wears a
glass eye and no brains, has recently remarked
tnat ‘ Planets do not govern the soul nor guide
the destini s of men; but trifles lighter than
straws are levers in the building up of our char-
acter.” As worthy old John Stofel would eay,
“ Dot’s a feckt.” A meteor 15 million timrs bigger
than the Hon. Johu Lucas may sweep across the
heavens and not have any more effect on the
average man than a dose of castor oil would have
on Captaia Cook's big statue; but when a bank
clerk, in all the pride of his youth and bloom, pre-
part s to skip serous the street to do a mash with a
lady friend on the other side, and a mean-looking
little chunk of banana peel wriggles round under
his toes, ho sits dovraoa the flags abruptly, feels
as if the day of judgment had burst at last, and
lets loose a torrent ot red-hot profanity withering
enough to curl up the irou rails of a trram-liar*.
1 1 any cas , such a cata strophe is crushing, but
when the vijtim happens to oe dressed in one of
Sum nerfield and Co. s best suits, it really stems,
as Menander says, that he was “ raised the higher
that he migtit fall the heavier ” Fortunately,
however, the cheapness ot our wares enables him
to make good the damage without the slightest
inconvenience.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—No family should be
without it. It is the purest and best stimulant
obtainable.
Jp HBHIIUI a__S B O IT ROOMS.
BRADLJUY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, In EXQuisiri
taste, the very latest fashion; well worthv nt
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. rOl
'ALL CABINETS for Choice China,
ssww™!S BAHT - jMt:re “
N o lgiVil B g^Z°M.lgd w iS^
BDROOM SUITES complete In various woods
and very handsome designs, with l-f&SI
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sin*]*
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney!"'
SJjIGMT-POUND BEDROOM SUlTEg^rj;
,;i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, ehest drawers, washstand, dressing table am*
glass, and two chairs. The lot for M. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-atreet.
EDROOM SUITES
B
(Fashionable Early English
(ROBE, 4ft., with silvered
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from lOo'
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. «d.; Washstanda from Bs. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ’•
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards’
from £3 105.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets,
JL»*JR t'iAJM UPOK’l'is, guaranteed
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only,
radley, Newton, and Lamb.
-SBHEL
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
|"IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
\J Just received. Bradley, Newton, mad Lamb
0 Oonnell-street.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, fo?
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowerj
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
rhRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL~CHAIRS.~
JLP A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, l2s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Ismb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-at.
riiOILET PAIRS, namelj
A with swing GLASS
marble top, 80s the pair.
DRESSING-TABLE
and WASHSTANB
Full suites for dining-room-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up t© 20 feet.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
::
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and eiee vena, at the will of
th® occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash-strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. fid. extra.
SELF- ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. "Various
\ Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room~suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requiranents
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Oonnell-strcets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and bras s
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lantb
BEDDING.— Ail descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB. O’Con.
aell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each
BRA DLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
a AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rusti<
U Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
W
Bentwood furniture.—a very aompisi
Asaortmtat; best mak*. lowest pyiow,


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
William Beach, the soulling champion,
will, on 27th inst., accompanied by his backer,
John Deeble, depart per Cuzco, to try bis luck
over the big puddle. Beach is a man who, by
sheer i luck and gallantry, has won his way to
aquatic fame in spite of the obstacles of compara-
tive poverty and lack cf the encouragement from
outsiders, which has been so willingly accorded
to many aspiring scullers whose almost maiden
efforts caused them to be looked upon as coming
men.” Beach says he will row American oarsmen
only over the Thames championship course, wnicb
he deems neutral water, tor any sum from *oUU
a side upwards. He expects to meet Teemer, who
cannot reasonably object to row on the Thames.
Ot Hanlan, he somewhat caustically observes,
that oarsman has apparently forgotten Australian
hospitality and Australian sportsmen. Hanlan
has not, ne says, written to any of his dear
Australian friends ” since he left the country. He
thinks Hanlan was at his best when he came nere,
and according to his own statement he
was as fit as hands could make him on the occasion
of his meeting the champion on the Parramatta,
Beach will not row, even if he makes a match
upon his landiDg, for at least three months after
reaching England, he having wisely decided to
acclimatise himself before staking his hardly-
earned laurels and his backers’ money. He pur-
poses being away a year, during which time he
will meet those who choose to challenge him.
Considering that Neil Matterson is apparently a
better man than any at present pulling on English
waters he does not expect many challenges from
English oarsmen. His opinion was that Matterson
in his race for the championship was at
his best—he had been rowing .five or six
years, at first under the coaching of Mick
Rush, than whom lew better oarsmen were to be
met. Then he was under the care of George Tern
and Tommy Kelly, and the chances of his improv-
ing now in skill were remote. Matterson might
gain stamina as he grew older, but judging by his
own match with Neil he considered bim as far up
in skill as he could get. In that race Matterson
pulled harder in the first half-mile than Hanlan
did the second time they met. Of Nelson’s chances
he had hut a poor opinion, and both Perkins and
Largan should beat him. Teemer he thought the
next best man in the world to himself, ana a
straighter man than newspaper reports credited
him with beiDg. The expenses of passage for him-
self and Mr. Heebie to England were to be borne
by Mr. George Hill, as genuine a sportsman as any
in the colony. He would not take any of his boats,
though he thought the Jack Bmith about the best
model of a boat a man could wish to see. He
would take home a slide fitted with wheels of his
own invention. He did not purpose rowing In
any sweepstakes except a heavy one, and then
only on condition that no more than two started
in each heat. He purposed returning toDapto
and remaining there ag long as possible before his
departure for England. The money collected as a
testimonial to him was invested ia the A.b.N. Co,
and the interest accruing would provide for his
family, The champion, who was born in 1851, will
be 35 years of age on 6th Sept.
* * *
N.S.W. but narrowly missed last Sunday
a bereavement beside which the loss of an M.L.A.
or two would have been trifling and inconslder.
able. Foley, Dooley, and Connors were at Coogee
on the day of rest, and the seas running high and
lookiDg game for fight, Larry, who has loua been
anxious lor a shy at something, peeled off ana
went in topping the little waves and shooting the
big ones with the keenest enjoyment. Young
Dooley, the coming champion ot Australia, was
soon beside his chief, and Connors, an athlete of no
badly earned record, joined them. A few moments
were gaily spent in a sport which requires no small
amount of nerve to afford its lover any enjoy-
ment, when, as if to show its power over man, the
ocean sent in its left in the shape ot a huge,
crested, angry wave, which dashed the swimmers
against the cliffs with such violence as to cut Con-
nors severely, bruise and injure Dooley, and leave
Foley with a badly blackened, slightly contused hip.
Foley’s opinion is that his most recent antagonist
is the only one on earth, barring a locomotive,
which could knock the three combatants out in
one round. . *
Sydney sailing men had a great day out
last Saturday when a wholesale north-easter and a
flood tide gave the various cre*s every oppor-
tunity to display their science. In the K.o. Y.C.
Handicap, for the commodores prize, oyer the
Manly course, the following yachts put in an ap*
pearance:—Waitangi, 21 tons, scratch; Electfa, 21
tone, 3>4min.; Sirocoo, 10 tons, Sao, t>
tons, 16min.; Assegai, 6 tons. 15min.; Doris, 5 tons,
35min. The Maniy buoy was rounded by Wal-
tangi. Sirocco, and Electra in the order named,
but toe yawl took up second running on the road
to Shark Island, which was rounded by the Wai-
tangi. some two minutes ahead of the Electra,
which had Jmin. 7«ec. on the Sirocco. The Wai-
tansri gradually increased her lead and finished the
race 4mm ahead of the Electra, the Sirocco finished
4min. and a few seconds behind the Electra. The
vawl Electra was anything but well handled. Her
forking of the western shore would, no doubt,
have stood her in good stead had the wind
drawn away to the eastward, but it held steadily
from the north-east, and the Waitangi received full
benefit from hpr working of the eastern shore.
Again, the Electra’s crew were in difficulties with
their square-header almost all the way from
Shark Island to Garden Island, and, taking all the
circumstances of the contest into consideration,
Mr. Fitjzhardinge may look upon the race as
fairly thrown away.
» * *
The una»j.@hed races from the Pyrmont
vpgatta were run off on Saturday, the principal
event being the 20 to U feet half-deckers’ race, for
amateur crews. Genesta (2min ). Nereus (2min.),
Triton, 22ft. (scratch), Elaine Davlne,
02£t. (scratch), and Clyt e put inanap-
noarance, ana after a rather hollow contest the
llenesta finished some 3min. ahead of the Triton,
and the Nereus was behind the Triton, so
the 20-footer takes second place by time allow-
ance Mr. Fred Doran handled the winner, which
is without doubt a regular ” heeler.” She is about
Bft sln. beam, and 6tt. 6in. across the tuck, wbicb
makes a regular ship of the 20 footer, but her
wonderful speed Bhows Ellis made no mistake
when he decided to take copy by tne Yankee flat-
iton The Genesta last week bad a christening
such as a 20 footer is seldom accorded, when
champagne flowed like water, and the talk flew,
nr.nneauently, fast and furious. The Hebald
credited George Ellis with having said that the
Msssra Cameron might be congratulated upon
owning the two fastest boats of their class in the
harbour. Now, Ellis built the two boats in question,
and he is ready t© make a statutory declaration no
such words passed his lips, and he is at present
armed with a club searching lor the Herald man.
For the 16-foot dingy race Sophia finished first
smin ahead of Our Boys, but the latter entered a
nrotest against the Sophia on account of a foul
which occurred during a bit of ” pointing” be-
tween the two boats.
* v *
THerfe was a little misunderstanding of
acme sort in tbe athletic circle on Saturday,
whereby between Jaok Hall and the
champion amateur, and Lawson and Fuller did
nof'come off at Foley’s Athletic Hall, hut an im-
promptu meeting between Pablo Frank and
Fogarty fully made up for the deficiency in the
Both powerful well-built men, they
made a splendid set-to, for though either of them
with a cleverer man would, perhaps, have been
but a ” chopping block,” they were so evenly
matched that the contest proved of more than
SiM interest For foyr roimdg they fought so
equafly that no decision coqid be given, rturn a
ttith aud sixth, and it was not till the seventh
round was complied that Foley told them to
shake hands, as it was inipcsobie to decide be-
tween them Fuller and Smith had a hvely four
rounds, the tyo first in favour of Smith, but con-
dition was not to be denied ia the remainder, and
Fuller took a deoided lead. Byles then showed
Williams that he is possessed ot a very busy left
Jjand; and Foley and Doohy woundup the pro-
ceedings. Under Foley’s tuition Dooley is coming
on fast, and although the champion fought too
quickly with his head for his pupil to land his
usually effective left with certainty or frequency,
Dooley showed great improvement in his style,
and in place of his old elbow hitting, he now
throws his body well into the blow. His meeting
with “ Professor" Jaekson has been fixed for next
Saturday week, at Foley's Hall, when a much
closer contest than most people think may be
looked forward to. On Tuesday afternoon a
gentleman from the Bogan tried conclusions with
Foley’s chamoion amateur. The conclusion
arrived in just three minutes, when, in the last
rally of the first round, the Bogan warrior got the
amateur s left into the place where he puts bis
dinner with such emphasis as led him to suppose
the heavens and earth were comiog together So
he sat down to think. Two rounds more were
fought by permission of the amateur, who could
have settled things any time in the second round
This is the second man from the Bogan who has
tried the champion. Are there no sloggers on the
Barcoo anxious for a shy ?
* * *
And this reminds us that some score of
gentlemen assembled in the boxing room at Jack-
son’s Hotel on Saturday night to witness a few
sets-to, the principal being between Jackson’s
favourite light-weight novice (who made such a
gallant fight with Jack Hall some months since)
and a recent arrival from Tasmania. The Sydney
lad held the lead from start to finish, but the
Vandemonian can swing his right to some purpose,
and had one of the loose ones landed on his op-
ponent’s jaw, the Sydneyite might have got more-
’an he bargained for.
* * *
Still another athletic entertainment came
off on Saturday night, when several hundred
persona assembled at West’s Academy, Castlereagh-
street, the event being an atnletic benefit to the
heavy-weight wrestler, Connors. Connors and
M’Cflifrey did some wrestling, Lancashire style;
and tbe principal boxing bouts were between
“Professor ” Jaekson and his pupil, Tom Taylor;
Hall and George Powell, and Lawson and Powell.
* * *
Messrs. Ruwald and Connolly rowed in
wager boats on Middle Harbor waters on Saturday
afternoon for £25 trophy. Ttu-se gentlemen are
both members ot the North shore Rowing Club,
and we are sorry to see members of amateur row-
ing clubs rowing private matches lor “valuable
trophies.’’ These “ valuable trophies ’’ are dan-
gerous affairs for amateurs to dabble in. The
N .S.W. Rowing Association might well take these
races in hand, hold the stakes, and purchase the
trophy for presentation to the winner.
* * *
“ Our troubles.” Edward and Scott have
been unable to obtain a hall in Melbourne, and
will walk their six days’ match in Sydney.
* * *
Alick Bannerman has come in for a good
round share of abuse for his action in at first re-
lus'ng to allow a substitute for Sparks in the
match Carlton v. Warwick. That Binnerman
was quite right to object as he did, anyone that
gives the question a taought muit admit. Sparks
was not prevented from playing by any accident,
and, as a matter of faet, was engaged in a
match on the Agricultural Ground for the Junior
Cup. To show how the substitute business can
be “ rigged,” we may mention, as an instance, the
mateh in which the first Australian eleven played
a dead heat against a combined fifteen in Mel-
bourne, in 1878. In that match the fifteen had two
“stiff ’uns ” in the field, in the persons of old
Gibby and Ned Sheridan-both good batsmen—hut
duff*rs in the field. The skipper of the fifteen
(Coates) got in on Gregory, the eleven skipper, by
persuading him to allow Tennant, who at that
time was about as good a field as they had in Vic-
toria, to field in the first innings lor Gibson, and
in the second for SnerldaD, although both men
were on the ground at the time.
* m *
The first member of the Australian Eleven
to “break ground” was Sammy Jones, who left
on Friday last for Melbourne by the Bengal, when
a number of the popular ’Varsity man s friends
assembled to give him a “send off.” Evans and
Garrett went overland on Monday. The team will
travel by the Bengal to Adelaide, where they are
booked for a match, after which they “ hump
their drums” aboard the Austral for the trip
home.
* * *
Mr. John West, of tbe Sydney Rifle Club,
made “ a record ” for the club archives on Tnurs-
day last, when he put together 65 out of a possible
70 at 500 and 600 yards.
* * *
Richard Mathews, ‘.the Yankee’boxer, who
played nine pins with the New Zealand boxers, has
returned to America, ana the irrepressible re-
porter has drawn from Mathews tnat he is willing
to meet the great gun John L. Sullivan. Mathews
very sensibly confiaed his attention to New Zea-
land boxers. Haa he come on to Victoria or
N.S.W. he would have found much easier game
than John L. eager to take him up.
» - *
Tho concluding day of the V.R.C. Autumn
Meeting brought aoout more reversals of public
form. Surprises we were going to call them, but
the public have long since given over expressing
surprise at the running of a racehorse. Five to
two on was the price about Malua lor the Cham-
pion race, but he failed to run into a place, and
Matchlock turned up winner by hslf a length fr©m
Cyclops, First Prince third. Perchance won the
Maiden btakes from Islander; Ag aos won the
Nursery Handicap from Crossfire; Lesbia appro-
priated the Autumn Handicap; Mudlelina won
the Ail-aged Stakes by tnree lengths from Trident;
and Cerise and Blue concluded the meeting by
winning the Free Handicap from Dunlop.
* * *
Fully 1500 people attended the meeting of
the Sydney Park Driving Club on the Agricultural
Society’s Ground. Empress fell curing the
running of the Pony Hurole Race, ana her rider
(M'Dowall) receivea suca iejurtes that the unfor-
tunate youngster died before he could be con-
veyed to the hospital. The ground is too eramped
for the illegitimate business, and it is to be hoped
the Agricultural Ground has seen the last of it.
T. J’ye’s Rosemary carried off the Maiden Trot;
and Teviet, with 280 ?ds , finished first for the
Grand Distance Handicap Trot, Native Cat was
second, six lengths away, and his owner entered a
protest against F. Alexander, the owner and
driver of Lieutenant, for unfair driving.
* * *
A merry little turn-up with the mittens
eventuated during the week up the Parramatta
River, when a few amateurs donned the pads
and fought several hot mills to a finish in each
casB. The first match was between an English
amateur and a Gladeeville Asylum slogger. Rules:
Queensberry; stakes: askinful. TheGiadesviliian
was leading gamely ia the early part of the fight,
and.tp the first two rounds lookt d all over a winner.
In the third round the Englishman's condition
began to tell, and at tbe finish ths sponge went up,
victory for the amateur. The text couple to face
the starter were a Sydney Lancer and one of the
“Keepers” at the .asylum. The gentle lunatic-
tamer was a two-handed masher, and from the
word “ go ” made things very lively for the gal-
lant spearman, who, however clever he may be
with a 10-foot sapling a curving knife, is
no great shakes with his “ dukes.” His opponent
dashed in his right and left his mark, and subse-
quently slung out his left to right his mark. In
both these caiigraphic feats the keeper achieved
his object, after which he knocked the warrior
square across the ring. The soldier’s soul was
troubled and the soldier’s heart was sad. He
retired after deEc fibing the gory massacre as dam
foolishness and altogether unbecoming the dignity
of a warrior. Plaoe him on bis fiery and untamed
war horse, fetch his trusty sword and his lance of
ilghtwood, and then stand eff and give him
room. He d present a realistic picture of the
charge of the Light Brigade in exactly six seconds
from the sounding of the spirit-stirring drum.
The next pair to enter the arena were a keeper and
a friend. The keeper could not get his hands into
the mittens, and though he argued he would just
as soon play without them, his opponent declined
the courteous offer and the master of ceremonies
declared the evening’s amusement ended. The
next turn-up will be under the special patronage
of Lord Carington and the local undertaker.
» * *
Malua fairly put the seal on his fame by
the style in which he won the Australian Cup.
Robertson lay off until making the last turn for
home, but directly he called upon the great horse
it was p ain that the race was all over—bar the
proverbial shouting. Malua suddenly emerged
from the ruck two hundred yards from home and
settled his opponents, one after another, in most
decisive fashion. Only Cerise and Blue made any
real show of a fight, but toe game little mare was
outstrldden by the champion, and he romped
home, without having been touched by spur,
in the quickest time on record. When it is con-
sidered toat Malua carried 181 b. more than any
previous winner, the performanca may fairly be
described as phenomenal. The victory was a
popular one, for even his unsatisfactory show in
the Newmarket Handicap did not prevent the
public from having a little on their old idol at
such a tempting price as 10 to 1.
* * *
Connors, the champion heavy weight,
took a benefit at West’s Academy, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, on Saturday night, when a large
bill was rattled through in the presence of a good
assemblage, prominent amongst the crowd of
athletes being W. Beach, who sat the entertain-
ment out. Connors and M’Caffery met in a Lan-
cashire wrestling match, and after an expenditure
of much perspiration and perseverance, the two
falls were credited to Connors Sul/ivan and
Cleary opened the ball with a merry hammer and
tongs four-round fight, without any permanent
injury to either party. Jackson and Taylor
fought three rounds scientifically, though the
black professor has not made any startling ad-
vancement towards the front. He is not much
better now than when he fought Farnan. A novel
set-to, followed between a deaf and dumb youth
from Newcastle, who refused to tell his name,
and “Murpby of New Zealand” “Murphy of
N.Z.” Is almost as exhaustively explicit as " Smith
of London.’’ We knew several Italians of that
name on the West Coast. This gentleman is not
any of those Murphies, and for the sake of New
Zealand, we are glad for this particular Murph.,
who was knocked kite-high by the dumb-bell.
George Powell and Jimmy Lawson fought a battle
whicn was ► evidently finished before its com-
mencement.' The spar was simply a show fight,
and each man held a bit in reserve. Connors,
who is better on the sawdust than the platform,
deputed Ned Powell to return his thanks to the
audience, after which Jack Hall and George
Powell sparred a very pretty four rounds, both
men fighting pretty well up to concert pitch, and
retiring amidst applause, which, at any other en-
tertainment, would have entitled the performers
to re-appear. Connors cannot he other than
grateful to the athletes who rallied so nobly round
him. He can easily return the compliment by
making a present of a brand new Grseco-Roman
fall.
* * *
M'Caffery wrestles Pickup on the New-
castle Cricket Ground on Saturday next. The
men are in good buckle, and both pretty confident.
* * *
The Ballarat division dropped a lot of
money over Seahorse, Morven, Britisher, and
others, at the late V.R.C. meeting, and heaps of
the Sheet Anchor “ stuff ” returned to the pockets
whence it came. ’Twas ever thus. The “books”
may;iend for a while, but horse owners and public
invariably pay back capital and interest in the
long run. By the way, Mr. White’s colours were
not as successful as usual, Philip Augustus losing
a lot of money for the followers of the blue ana
white. Philip is big beyond his years, and looks
more like a Derby horse than a two-year-old.
* * *
The Glebe Rowing Club will pull a handi-
cap skiff race on the 13th inat. We have only these
brief particulars to hand, but as Carington is going
we will drop round and see the pull, wnen we will
gather up the sunbeams of knowledge for our-
selves.
* * *
A quiet “ good thing ” was nearly brought
off with Cerise and Blue in the Australian Cup.
The mare is a real little flyer everyone knew, but
few credited her with possessing sufficient stamina
for a two-mile and a-quarter race Gorry, who
had the mount, is one of the smartest light-
weights that ever got into a saddle. If the Doy
goes on as he has begun, there is a capital future
before him.
* *’ *
Subsequent running makes it appear that
a Newmarket Handicap was thrown away with
St. Oaille. The style in which this mare bolted off
with the Bourke Handicap at Piemipgton last
Thursday was—in the words of the poet a “ cau-
tion.” She had given a taste of her quality in the
Brunswick Stakes on the previous Saturday, hut
the distance was rather beyond her tether. There,
however, she led a good field by four lengths for
more than a mile Over the Newmarket course,
and handicapped according to previous form, St.
Odille might have lowered the colours of William
Tell. The outside public wore not long in “ tum-
bling ” to the mare’s excellence, and they backed
her pretty freely for i ha Bourke Handicap at 10 to
1. As a “book” significantly remarked: “The
* mugs ’ know more than the ring, for once.”
* * *
A paper considers that “ Beach is wise to
keep out of the way of the nice little pitfalls that
beset the athlete in America.” Well, really, we
can’t quite see what harm William could come to
iu America, if you ask us. The Yanks couldn't
make any “ pitfalls ’ that would trouble Beach
much, while he could construct many of a nature
calculated to discomfit the strongest mind, did he
care to. As a matter of fact, a lot of American
speculators are now engaged in playing ferret to
William’s badger, but the latter is not to be
“ drored ” till it suits him. We’ve seen William in
his ’appy ’ome, and we should think that on the
whole he has a splendid time of it. With regard
to the neighbourhood of Dapto for family feuds,
Verona was a fool to it! The Cliffords and the
Beachs have had a vendetta ever since the Middle
Ages, when they went at it with catapult and cul-
verin. William be not a fool: he will certainly
journey to America—when it suits him; and our
opinion is, that though Beach may return from
thither with a very great deal of money, it would
he too much to expect of the champion to come
back with another idea.
♦ * *
The ingenuousness of the Sydney Globe
is something gigantic; indeed, it is a matter for
wonderment ho# on earth there is room for so
much up such a very narrow passage. It says:—
“It is straDge how some runners have a hankering
after assumed names.” It’s simple enough, good-
ness knows I bay you are a pedestrian. Well, you
fail down, for instance, within eight inches of the
tape in a match at Invereil, where you run under
the name of (van de Gubbins; thereiore, nothing
will come handier than to enttr fcr Frank Smith's
Handicap under the pseudonym of “Don Alodzo.
4
By the way, another “ dreamer ” was upset
over the Newmarket Handicap at the recent Mel-
bourne meeting. Somebody in Brisbane had a
vision of Fair Ellen coming in alone. She did- but
nearly at the wrong end. Dreams are losing their
charm for the public. The general opinion is that
they are artful devices of the “ books.”
* n> *
Slogger Sullivan is doing the “Greek
statues ”in a variety show round the States. As
an intellectual treat this must be about on a par
with “ Mace showing his trophies.” In our youth
we remember reveil’ng in the latter entertain-
ment. The trophies were brought into the middle
of a circus on a tray, and the dauntless Jem took
them up,one by one, and “showed” 'em to the
admiring thousands. Jem lays the odds now, and.
if he “ knows his book ” and bets round, must find
that a better game than showing trophies or
posiDg as Apollo. It isn’t likely that Sullivan wil i
ever take to the bookmaking business. It
wouldn’t suit him. The first time anyone hit
him hard ” he’d want to retaliate by smashing up
the lucky backer.
«3 © ■
The Bulletin staff challenged the staff
of the Daily Telegraph to a cricket match,
which was played on Thursday last on the Asso-
ciation Ground. A cool b etze and a nice light
lunch helped things along, and a very pleasant
contest ensued. The daily pressmen won the
toss and went to the wickets, where they compiled
a nice little score of 111. The Bulletin
men in turn went iD, ana only managed to
total 75. In the next inniDgs, the Telegraph
team were not so fortunate as in the first, as they
were rather quickly disposed of for 95, The Bul-
letin followed, and when time was called, had
lost two wickets for S 3 runs, all the scoring having
been done by th« not-out men, who seemed to
have got hold of the bowling, and were hitting
with confidence and freedom. The match, there-
fore, looked a pretty open one, with the chances
in favour of The Bulletin, but beiDg unfinished,
was decided on the first innings. Of the Tele-
gpaph team Messrs. Crone and Patterson batted
witn great success, and the bowling of Jones and
Robinson was very good, indeed. Mr. Shepherd at
the wickets was most efficient, and made several
victims, strongly contrasting with the inefficiency
of the Bulletin wicket keeper, who let off three
of bis opponents. Flick and T. Traill bowled
well for The Bulletin, tne latter taking five
wictets. The fielding on both sides was quite
creditable for scratch teams. The Bulletin
now expect to be challenged in their turn.
“ STERLING’S’' STRAIGHT TIP.
Na'urally, the Press plays an Important part in
the conduct and government ot horse-racing 1 in
these colonies. The sporting writer is not merely
tue recorder or reporter of passing events in the
sporting world, but the watchful censor and critic,
whose alert vigilance keeps rogues in terror, and
whose honest and out-spoken commentaries prt -
serve horse-racing comparatively speaking, clean
and undefile. For it must be remembered that
a spot which, of necessity, appeals to the passion
for gambling, innate in human nature, presents
many temptations to the unscrupulous ana kna-
vish. The sporting writer then, whose function
it is to expose all trick and raseality on the turf,
is an important factor in the good government
and control of our most popular amusement.
Among the many capable gentlemen who direct
tt'eir attention to the literature and record or
turf matters, there are few, if any, who are more
widely known and respected than Mr A. F
Bradshaw—who writes under the nom deplume of
“ Sterling.” Those who know him, whether in his
capacity as a writer upon racing subjects, a trainer,
or as a private gentleman, are aware that he is ex-
cellent in all respects. They will be glad, then, to
learn that he is recovering his health, which wa
so terribly shattered from the effects of a railway
accident some time ago. He owes his more recent
resuscitation to the use of Warner’s safe cure,
of which he writes Feeling seriously well, with
great weakness, and waking as tired in the morning
as I felt when I went to bed the night before, I
was advised by a friend to try Warner’s safe cure.
After some persausion I did so. A few dose 3 gave
me great pain in the region of the kidneys, speedily
followed by a sensation of great relief and ease, i
used two bottles, with the happiest results, and I
now find myself restored to health.” 'i he man
who would reject such testimony as this would net
hesitate to marry his own grandmother for the
sake of her speetacles. It is unimpeachable, and
we are proud to set it before the public as one
more notable instance of the efficacy of that whieh
needs but to be keown to be commended.
Ask for the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Accept nothing else under any consideration.
£5OO will be paid for any case that American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not
See
Mr. Angus Fairbaibn, leader of the cele-
brated " FairDairn Family ” of Scottish vocalists,
writes from Boston, Mass,, Feb. 6,1880:—‘ Ever
since my hair began to give silvery evidence of
tne change which fleeting time procureth, I have
used ayeb’s Hair Vigour, and so have been able
to maintain an appearance of youthfulness—a
matter of considerable consequence to ministers,
orators, actors, and in fact everyone who lives in
the eyes of the public.”
For the sake of your health accept only Wolfe'
Schnapps—lt is the only genuine Schnapps.
GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &c., &e.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
}&“ GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Select your
own steak,&c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions oi the city, and a long-
felt watt. Inspection invited. J. I). YOU, Manager.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce It the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “all Cocoa.” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c„ and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form Made instantaneously with boiling and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the lloyal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c„, in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6c?., 35,, ss. 6c?., dee.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHWEITZER & CO.. 10 ADAM-STREBT, ST BAWD, W."., LOKfflQSi,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.


1
•a?;'
Mr
R
.Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on Neck.
PI M PLES to SCROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
pcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disecoeo of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
ljOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers , Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to. both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
W fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared ry the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston. TT.G.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
1
DESTROYS]
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS.,
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS -Mi
.‘S
m
soLdi
Hp^iNTINS
UPWARDS
FavALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
FELTON • G RIM WA DEtt*C°
- MELBOURNE -
Wanted in Every Souse.
——
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
t
CO
cr>
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
aothing equals them, D«licious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Bole Agents,
U Bttkh*x Smawr. BTPSTHT
YANKEE DOODLE
Dooo^
sur/
O/J CSON& S 0" S
Ev
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
rpuE kqK |
TOBACCO
V "y 1
DIXSOB9 & SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
POF9PBB the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dlxson’s Cut Tobaccos.
JPIOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds an sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAiaFoTevery description
SILVER PL ATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COT 3, all Sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FliißE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TO'LET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING *, VELVETS and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRO N BEDSTE ADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASSE3, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J LAWLER, fOB, GEORGE STREET,
Factory-No. 1 3,5 Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
fast . tfjfeissbr?
f
pL
a •
r-n
\et~- . . -
WILLI AM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the olty.
Musio.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orohestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
Ml upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Caras, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
whioh is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is net a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised,
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER. TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st.. London.
Kif" Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
wtreet. London, they are spurious.
WESTER* AUSTRALIA.
TO CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
THE Government of Western Australia is pre
pared to receive Tenders up to noon of
Thursday, Ist April, 1886, for the folio wing works
Erection of a line of Telegraph—from Roebourne
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
with iron poles Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen on application at the
Office of the Commissioner of Works, Sydnev
New South Wales. J ’
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Works,
Perth, Western Australia,
3rd February, 1886.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of FAT STOCK at HOMEBCSH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
“m
‘ WW: ‘4 i
1:
‘; i - 1
UMBR LLAS
I ﬁgmm
STUDY ECONOMY
and
j HaveyourUmbrella Pramei
re-covered, and your
1 Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst St*,
Parasol* made to match oo*.
tumes. RanaJr* neatly ut<
-A.’bres.la.axn.’s
The Great Liver Remedy.
.Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
■lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Imm edlate relief.
434 QE jRGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spuriouß and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTKBFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
street, Ketlfern.
Linen G-loss
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
Z 1 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OR COUNTRY USE
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


There is a paper started in Melbourne
rilled the BooJierakg, which claims to bo written,
apt up and printed by Australians. This explana
tinn as regards the publication, is one which is of
a highly necessary character. Two Buldoo niggers,
with a secondhand fount of 1.p., and a tin of lamp-
black could have done far better. Just see some
nf the advice it gives: —“ Don’t be an oyster. It is
not a proper modtl for an Australian to copy.”
nh ! isn't it ? All we can say is, that the sooner
the gifted writer of this brief homily becomes an
ova ter- or a whelk— the better ; that is, it he en-
tertains the ambition of rising a rung upon the
ladder of intellect before his career is very pro-
perly terminated by the inevitable boot.
“Parliament in Session,” in the Sydney
TVho is now written by “A Beetle.” On reading
the “ copy” of this noble Insect, it has struck us,
that though there may be any amount of “ hum ”
about it in one sense, there is surprisingly little in
another. Here is a samp© of “A Beetle’s”
“tyi e _in which, we suppose, is embodied a sample
nf the only kind of humour acknowledged in the
Herald office:—"This was too much for Mr.
Ablaail, who raised a shriek like that of a de-
bated guinea fowl.” “ A demented guinea
£j W U’» We can just imagine how they laughed
nver this in the reporters’ mom, and how they
slapped the writer on the back and called him a
••funny dog.” It is an easy thing to get a reputa
tion for humour amongst the S.M. boys; but, Men
ihtmdue, you must have a reputation for holiness
to start with.
George Tipping was reoently summoned
at the North Shore Police Court, Sydney, for
riotous conduct with "singiDg out ‘ Bow wow ’ in
the hearing of the police.” Mr. Addison, S.M., did
not think the offence serious, and discharged the
accused.—
Friend Tipping, you should never riot, never make
And never say such "awful” words as either
"bow ” or “wow”;
You see this “awful” conduct has each North
Shore peeler vexed.
Why. man, they’ve information that you will he
whistling next;
Let us fervently advise you keep your " awful ”
tongue in check,
Or they’ll catch you some flue evening, George,
and hang you by the neck.
A contemporary, under the heading of
“Killed by a .Fatal Error,” publishes a paragraph
in which a jury returned a verdict that Dr.
Tremaine, of Gres wick, Yic. (who has since
been committed for trial), had in mistake given
morphia for medicine of another kind to Richard
Gostley, by which Richard at once became a ghost.
We know Dr. Tremaine, who is deservedly es-
teemed in the medical profession ot Victoria and
by the people of Ballarat aDd surrounding dis-
tricts, as one of the cleverest doctoisin the colony.
Gostley’s complaint was rheumatism. He will
never have it again.—
With such a name as his, what wonder
If Richard had long since gone under ?
And ’tia better far, than live in pain,
To die nor on earth T’remain;
The sad mistake for him was costly,
For Richard now is really Gostly.
We clip this reverently from an Adelaide
exchange:—“A split has occurred between the
‘Christian Crusaders.’ The Rev. A, Turnbull is
very bitter against the seceders in his letters to the
p/668—and, further, warns the public not to sub-
scribe to their mission.” This revives unpleasant
reminiscences of our first effort in the crusading
business, and we grasp our harp thoughtfully as
we chant:—
The “Kuristian Krusader.”
At this news we’re quite upset,
And our eyes with tears we wet
As we sweep the strings and sing to
You in sympathetic tones.
How division briDgs disaster
Upon both flock and pastor,
When they quarrel o’er the picking of
Their captives’ sinful bones.
We once put on our armour
And sallied forth to garner
The sheaves of golden wheat that
Strayed or fell upon the way,
And each raid upon " Auld Clootie ”
Saw us pi.ing up more booty.
Till we thought we’d earned sufficient
To retire from the fray.
But, alas! when we reiurced
For the share that we had earned
By fighting in the van to swell
The army of the blest,
We received the awful shock
That the Captain of the fiock
Had skipped across the water with
The regimental chest.
We cut no dismal capers
With “ our troubles ’’ in the papers
For the infidel to gloat upon, and
Laugh with rabid glee.
Nol we only cursed the blunder
That had lest us all our plunder,
Then pawned our regimentals, and
Went out upon the sprte.
At Rockhampton (Q.) Police Court a few
weeks ago the “Comedy of Errors” was played
to perfection. One Peter Smith wes the first to
face the music, and having pleaded gui'ty. he was
discharged, on account of that beirg bis first ap-
pearance behind the spikes. Peter, accordingly,
stood not on the order of going, but he went at a
pace that would break Tom Malone’s best rr cord,
A Mr. Henry Mahon was then called to explain
Why he filled his tank to overflowing point with
tangle, and subsequently lay down in the road and
fought the air with bis leet, to the imminent
danger of the pasrere-by. Henry, however, was
carefully non cut, and right here the trouble
began to boom. How Mr. Mahon managed to
escape from the cells was a matter no one could
understand, until an intelligent young thrap
suddenly renumbered that it was the pie
viously discharged Petvr Srnith who ought to have
been hauled along for drunkennars, and Henry
Mahon for the offence of which Smith had pleaded
guilty. This difficulty was squared by,di3cbarging
Henry as well as Peter, but the next case rendered
the confusion worse confounded, for a Mr. John
Hansen was found guilty of the offence for which
Smith was arraigned, the youthful gendarme
having mixed hini up with Mahon. This was just
a trifle more than the Bench could stand, for as
Smith and Mahon had proved themselves to be
somebody else, and as it was likely that Mr. Hansen
might not be himself either, the P.M. discharged
him also and then went home and soaked his head
in ice to keep his brain from tangling itself up
into a second edition of the Gordian knot.
In excusing himself for the non-arrival of
a terrible typhoon, which he recently predicted,
Official Astronomer Russell, of Sydney, says:—
1 We labour under great disadvantages in the daily
reports furnished of the weather. In other
pour,tries, telegrams connected with the Meteoro-
logical Department always take precedence of
other messages; but here in N.S.W. they do not.
Hence a message sent to me from Adelaide at 9
a.m. will reach me at about 1 o’clock. What can
l do when messages relating to the Weather De-
partment do not take precedence over private and
other messages ?” Our own opinion is that so far
as one third of the “messages relating to the
Weather Department” are concerned it matters
little whether Mr. Russell rr ceives them at 9 a.m,
or never, for. as a matter of fact, he might just as
well found his predictions on a leaf from Sir
’Enery’s diary, or a page torn out of a Chinese in-
solvent’s ledger. Some of the telegraph clerks
look upon the whole thing as a farce, and when
pushed for time, or not in the humour to “graft,”
they have no scruple whatever in trusting
their wind and weather reports to the care of an
imagination which seldom knows what it is to
have a day’s illness. “ Calm, fine,” are werr s
which occur with painful regularity in the bul-
letins sent from come stations, but c erks of more
than ordinary ability throw a pleasant air of truth-
fulness over their reports by an occasional
“N.N.E., cloudy, storm approaching.” Or two
occasions, at ieast. the reliable sheet p3sted in
front of the head office informed us that the sta’e
of affairs at the island town of Goulburn was,
“ S.W., fine, sea rising,” and we have heard of one
abnormally intelligent operator who, while doing
Sunday duty, used to haul out Mr. Rugseli s blank
sheets, and fill in all the wind and weather reports
on his line for the coming week. Our boss astrono-
mer should prowl round the operating-room in
disguise some day, and then he’ll wake up t© the
fact that when it comes to a question of fertility
of imagination the average iigntning-jerker could
give even Shakespeare 50 cut of 100 o p and then
beat him hollow.
Business cares render a stimulant essentially
necessary— Wolfe's Schnapps is the stimulant that
should he taken.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sile and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 6014 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
As a tonic, diuretic, and an invigorating cordial
Wolfe's Schnapps is highly recommended to the
public.
j, msuitH mm mo a & cu.’t
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MABKET CLOTH HALL,
473 Senrg@-str@@t,
Established 1864
HAS TKS LARGEST AND BE3T-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Anything you Require fr m Sydney
forwarded at
COST TRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM. Our
complete knowledge oi the markets of teiscby
enables us to extend to country buyers benefits
which they would not otherwise obtain. VViite
for what you require and we will suit you.
Note the address -
JOHN T. M‘ & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 Pitt-street, Sydney.
QUOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMUS,
(What we do we do well.)
. "ﬂ “$1.." $“v‘r
”*1; f ‘ .3, "
‘\“§L.l}‘ ~
E. w,
5W» ‘-
r X
i.
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but weli-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
tb© vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold Quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices- C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CB.EELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, BYDNEY ARCADR.
READ IT ALIi.
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.»«
Bop Bitters
AH
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THBF ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
* and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
• and most effective curative properties
' of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and “health restoring agent on
• earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
‘‘To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, aud all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
«dreds have been saved by so doing, at
• a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘hut the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
13 r~ See that the name Dr. Soule is blown
in every bottle, none other genuine.
1%"? BA: [‘3‘] s a ‘ 4-
’ L ‘ - ‘ , v. ‘ ,
‘w4fg‘r-Jw ; 'l‘ ’ ‘ _10 :-
~ - sﬂR-SPE — r
.'“1 1‘3- 5? ' AC -
-v; ' )\' ' M . ﬂ: 21-h \~ .1
"‘ "’ C’Efrag‘w; -1- _ -,
7 ' “i "“ -.'.‘ u} a: .2 'é» \ ,-
r' ' 5"- '-’\2‘i-'1"‘v;$- ' ‘9 fix" \ " .
" I'v' ’ "“"‘-"‘*T‘-;—Eﬁ"«""“ Wk: ‘1 ‘-T‘§:-\._ .
x ‘ -‘-‘.'~-,73’.";.:’ \i'z‘t"
I]; 7‘. IA A; ‘ "“ < ‘.-;2
w A w : ,\.,
. '- in; L: ‘ ’ \I
Y " MEW‘VM: ‘ ; -
¢ 1; -_ -‘ A: .1“ :7 ‘ ‘
,‘ W”, :1 w m ('1! 37:7; ,~_-_ "
’VW/‘WV-“E‘ 'yﬁ.--“7‘i' , V:
' m.” w// ' 1-1.9 *- ;. =2:.~s-=_:._.—_ .5. , .
( ("I M? i?! :E? fir-g“; H _ ‘- >l
“Wis-m’vazt-ba z , Wag , _;«; "‘1
”- (”IA-lugu'rgu 3.3)):- .- aﬁw if”. _ i" ‘
/ ’“ r‘ i " .—.J“"“,.‘_ ‘A .'.; '
. ’ﬂ/iZ-uﬁ,“ ‘ 2‘7" “‘- ”ﬁg, ; ~_ ‘1‘.)
A' "l“ " 2;. A1“ ‘ .‘., ' , - _A a 1-3;“
> I Mzﬁfé:*f*vt"v"x- ‘123 ; 3423 .-
.\ W: 4"! 7\4h: {my 30%:‘35‘ ‘
7- ““ .. 53-3315 'yl'é'fvf- *3. ‘1' e
5;» ﬂ -‘ "saw. c»- a); ; -- .- F.- ,
«v; ' \wxmk "5.1471(4‘bunf’f . -
<8» \Q\\{z-_, ~- '- “. ‘Q‘A‘R -.'.¥ﬁ$}}1‘ -‘."-" y \ I,
Zuni-3 ,\\k ‘\\ (‘3. . -. ally-h '."‘.’{:‘.¢~;\'R.’ 1' . v
V“ ~45 ' . 1 sm- . 5r
‘3‘ ‘ " ‘\‘\ 1"" ' "'rl.‘ .‘ LLB}? ‘M hig'ﬁﬂu , l -/ .‘-
‘VM ‘V\\ , Qua. .“ ‘ M‘Ti-H 1a“ . ‘ _” ,,/’ l
"we ' N‘- .j“«"m‘;. $1» "-J—U-‘L" 4“" m ‘ ‘. é:
' ~'-\ ‘.~¢~_ a, ‘ .“- . ' v- -, 1)., .1 "”3
‘ u “gm; 7- - w:
“ Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I And your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emklie Melville.’
•• Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moon*.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
‘ Fett-Puder ’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White. Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAH BALE,
The “ Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO. ; Wholesale Chemists
1
is
mm
WJ. Pill SCO.
LIMITED,
356 Oi©r|e-sfrßBt p
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Every Instrument Guaranteed,
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALIHG&Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
TH3 NSW FUBNITUBB
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
30 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Juts, tan Bus ~3 Ca.
'P
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied sioekpf
Fu nlturc, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
cash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &C,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will ba under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, l*te of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON EROS., & 00.
FOME K.O T -&HAHBBRS,
CASTLERE AGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
E
VBKTBODY I
SHOULD USE (
FEMELI/S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and moat approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE ia VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
IS GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VI CT Oil A 71.0U8 MILL,
SSI Ceorgre-street. Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CSLEBEATED
BISCUITS AN CANS, TREACLE AN SOLDER STRIP
Self-raising /Eraied Fleur, Plum Puddings, mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
I? 4 A. Lave obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E« 1883-4,
gjdHsy Agratsa V. U. AHULL Ik GO.* 843 @4B S»at-slrssS.


SUFFERERS
H. W. COOPER
(Late of Crown-street),
Who lias cured so many remarkable cases of Bid
Legs, Skin and Constitutional Diseases, may now
be consulted at 20 OXFORD-STREET. Advice
Gratis. ALL LISE \SES TRE AT ED.
H. W. C. will guarantee to cure the most obstinate
cases of constitutional diseases.
RELIABLE”TESTIMON Y.
To Mr. Cooper.
After many years’ extreme suffering from bad
legs, and failure of various treatments. I sm
happy to certify that under your care I'orlO weeks
I am perfectly cured, and 1 strongly recommend
anyone afflicted with skin disease to avail them-
selves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge,
Commercial Hotel, King- street.
T® Mr. Cooper, Medicated Vapour Baths.
I beg to testify to the curative powers of your
Baths for the sake of others who may be suffering
from causes similar to my own. For about two
years 1 suffered with bad legs T consulted our
best medical practitioners and tried many adver-
tised remedies, but ail to no purpose, and i re-
solved to see you, but at first I must tell you 1
doubted if you could effect a cure, but after being
under your treatment a week I was convinced,
and in’a iittie over a month I was cured, which l
think rather remarkable after being so Jong under
our best doctors, under whose care I grew worse.
I Bhall strongly recommend any one I know to you.
R. F. Eastway, Eastway Bros , George-street.
Inspection of other testimonials is respectfully
invited.
N.B.—MEDICATKD VAPOUR BATHS,
20 O sford-street, near Hyde Park.
ii?ss v ;s*»wi
SRieOßffS
le remedy for
fEßy&i/s JjebiLit if
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgerca. It is to those that this sdver
tlsement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering ins existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood's greatest privilege
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Knioyiug Lifa.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently eures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incap mity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the Im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials
In cases at 12s , or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser
vat,ion, sent to any pa*t ot the colony on receipt
of Notes, P, st Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
witti the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON'
OVER COMPLAINT positively cured by Ml/O'LTON’S
FRUIT PILLS, We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and na
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit!
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d
0, E MOULTON, soie Proprietor
PILL
’
MARSHAL L 5
TRADE MARK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A B-a-JB K, OJSiiix’AlN, & SPEED): cillKJslor Ner-
JnL vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonio *nd soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
in phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour t« the whole :ystom.
Price, 4s. od.. or 85s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. M A RSHALL BROTH ERA Registered
Chemists, 104 C Market st... Sydney. N.B —All imi
tfttlons illegal- TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
PAUL LIEBEI
i UNLIKE OTHERS
i&
l/Ai
W
id
W"
US
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E, 54 tli St., New Fori’, May 16, 1882.
Messes. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that. 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsi.parilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
, Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the 'Shin, ltheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all price $l. six bottles
for $5.
«sky; 44"“ .
_.r V.’_A-_r 3:21," .
W ‘-
1. “ww’ .'..l
4 . . ., ..
. 9 .. . a" .
‘ ,.
a. ‘ -1u—'
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. J>
Best Purgative Medicine
eure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
* all Bilious Disorders.
Sold every where. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS. and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED BUOCEBS
OB'
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 DEAFEST DALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
|3F” Carriage paid by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£& LADY’S BALE.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
• pairs Drawers
4 Night-prowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair G loves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
ISs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DREBBMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
166 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapeij
ROWLANDS' MAC ASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautities the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a .golden colour, which is
esnecially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KAL'S’DOR is a most
oooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perrectlr free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redneps, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE
produces Immediately a perfect change In red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORG E-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CURATIVE belts,
ELECTRIC ELECTRICITY,
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adnr>*<
the safe and never-failing remedy of the new™
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied
human system by wearing- the MAGNmue.* 1 ?
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO 'S genuine
TRTC BELT, a resto<er of impaired
failing health. It is an unvarvinv «mL» !?
curei
tioifi N" ervous Debility*,* and"
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical
and the baneful effects of malaria, which
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction
the body of the all-pervaoing element of hf?
electricity. This mode of treatment is bv faro?'
most perfect and successful method yet disco™™?
(combined with perfect safety! for supply in?
body the continuous or imperceptible current
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or i,™
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to th®
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and ™
tain their full power for a considerable nerios
But to avoid any disappointment by their roßsihi.
loss of electric power, and to keep the appUanoM
up to their original strength, we undertake t n ™
charge any of our appliances at the expiration S
twelve months, free of cost. One ot the sneeiai
features of this treatment is the electric corsra
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape Ins
manufacture. Price, 10a. and 15s. PL aml
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climHtes, of superior mX
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are vevJ
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 20s. In order
ing size of waist outside first garment is reaui™i
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agenev
price 20s. All who have a tendency to weak iunes
should adopt this treatment before it is too late
The appliances are adapted for local as well as oon
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Cans
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 1(B. Insoles—which a™
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation
rheumatism—ls. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
he careful to see that all goods are marked
“Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. REILD A GO.,
158 Pltt-str»st,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.-Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals;
One Bottle Of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich In muscular ancl fat producing
elements—Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd flesli in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child,
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &o.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent, ox nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being m the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, MuttOtt
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE UALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIM., LONDON.


head stout.—This favourite br«d
Nt of ttJiPH?' seleoted with great care from tne
Atthw, S® brewings of the oelebrated *rm of
excelled. To he procured everywhor*.
& HARSTON, Sole Agents.
J 5 * faasH
TOOD AND 101
; (Limited)
OOMPANI
hare Opened a
BRANCH DIFOI
AW
23 Royal Arcaio P
where they supply
Butter, Coffee, Goeo*. *o„ Witt
light refreshments*
ordeM ®MWT be left for delivery
alBo taken over the A & eacy * or
», “Iss,” go highly recommended in pulmc-
°ompialnts.
fash Food and fee Co., Limited,
81 Harbour-street
Liverpool-street, .
Mittagong.
B fiOUU) US*
tPEMBLX/S
EXTRA BUPERFINB
madb fbom thb best wheat
deplete with the newest and most approved
"tlr Process Machinery*
® PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
*CToria floue mill,
®*l Ceorce-atreet, Sydney.
. ' 1
$ /}/./\
41%“2 ,
'1' ‘ vim:
SINGER
and. Co. ’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
HN DAMS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sold by SERE SEALERS. MOSERS end SERGS/STS.
*BXZE medals, '
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
ol
v?|ton, Jge&> Is conceded to flj
J 8«- 14 ‘ ,U “ UDUDU iu ««
SKf' iIiS'THE STANDARD"
*»1 & s 5, U J H AWAY & SONS,
Congress Street, Boston.
MASS.. IJoS.A-
"™iuhACTUR|NG HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
,J VD NEY
I:
■——
!iV * & CO., Wine and Spirit
Bridge street, Sydney,
MarH« e l ebrated Whiskie
C Vc lll< Cas c» Co ‘' s Centaur Brandy, in
' , "'' l «A.V.H. oto ,* a>to .....
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish —ls
A. Boyer’s Baking: Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Crease Oil, for covering bald patehes and pro*
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, BASE,
cos:v«mENca, economy.
mr THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than onerhalf the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken/in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
ftportei*, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and 00,
410 Kent-street,
P.O
1C i
En
R.C
;^ARPS
D*
to Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seeking
Health, Strength, and Energy,
DR. RICHARDS,
M.A. Oxon,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both that he
has permanently established himself ip Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, N,q. 7
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
I Cure every ease undertaken,.
When l say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again j I mean
a radical cure, I have made nervous and pnyate dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice In
England, I nave discovered new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
svery case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell yoc at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Vo. 7 SPRIKTG ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonle
705 G-EORG-E STREET.
Send for Price List.
DB. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLBRBAGH-ST
(Upstair*),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to « p.m. only.
Deformities. Nervous, juid Female Diseases a
Specialty,
Rev no GJP.O.
[1&8
«a
w ~
gﬂmmg¥
Barry’s Tri opherous.
Guaranteed to mate the
ha grow on hald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
■world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
Bent. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
8. Hoffnung and Co.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COMPLETES FT
V ¥ .oCR & LOU/~ > 1
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133. ELIZABETH ST
m
<o
a
O
.tr w
('vA
6
TpP
pO
V
Slv
*
4*o'
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000,
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. IJepry Mort, M.L.C,
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmout, Rsdfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard's, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England.)
|WB BANK Q£ NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
U PITT-BTREET, and 588 GEORG E-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 625,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can otter special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills oolleeted on most favour-
able terms, rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
*
m
$
&
V- * sj?
#
v*
m
&
%
&aw
X
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG tf CO., Agents.
PARRV&Csf
NEW EXTRACT
hhhhhhhM of
PM.
\
m
m
%
m- ■'
MS
fill, 'm
'-Mu* ' «si:
NjjiP?- 'Wj
> p ARRY S. CO 5 ■
W*y%
THE MARSOAPIAI V/EW OF Hit
ILXEIDXCXIfcTE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR KTOTHIIG
Is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures. therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma > in our estabiisbments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
63 Market st., between Pitt and George streets*
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Burry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
CIST FUEL
do COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Jglu T. Mints & Co.,
90 PITT STREET, BARNEY, N.S,W,
manhood RESTOREDt
A Clergyman having tried every known rented'
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION
PREMATURE DECAY &.C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self-
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. Q,j Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who lias passed tho Royal Collegic of
Physicians of England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment'
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
i
u £|:^Jg&G'i? R \
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND A
k
n
■yk
w
WiP ■ •VAys3ss ::
wmMm
mi
W
mm
DH. O COI-WELL,
; 52 Castlereatjh Slreef,
SinDITIEJir, IsT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in nil the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venieut to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can bo sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is f i-ankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following efFects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want, of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia. Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
ffiannnff safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching:, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evQEy Kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
tod physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend oases to
fbis oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are ueed. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low— often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy P” A perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on os
address DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
$2 Ckßtlereagh Street (grooms noon), Sydney,


THOS. GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
1 4 bourke street, »
MELBOURNE. f
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEARLY OPPOSITE TUB
POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Gups, Optical ansf Surveying instruments, Sc.
Gaunt’s
Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases,
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of
warranted a most correct and
Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
BSP PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
6*4 3EOKSE STREET.
» * ■ -¥« v a Mr* ns . a i,rrv
XO7 Fitt-street,
ATKRKR A.ND CONFECTIONED
•ns um» *wn oßurr-BM* 1 *
LUNCHED
D REFRES
*im- «?o M**
ASK YOTTB GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FET & SOWS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ Aji ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lakoti.
»
#
MASON BKOTHJSito
5Z
8
■
LIMITED
26S to 269 Kent Star#**,
Sydney.
■aye always In STOCK, forSALI
to the TRAD* and WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
Airs
■ARTSiNWAR©
WINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents fOl
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whiaky
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYTBN’3
fcohnnpps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OP HIB EXCEL-
LENCT LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUBT ARRIVED, ex “Massillia,” 12 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Slgarattas,
specially selected by Mr. NOAKE on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spider’s/’
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’S EBT BLISHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st,,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
0
e
I
oo
<£>:
■
o
on
nr>
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BIBCUITB. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
I*r StJSSIX BTR«WS.fBYDiriY,
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE! *
Trade
31
Wx~
mm
Aft
m.
Mark,
NO MORE FEVER. ,f
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most woaaerful Germ-M«>J al , li»
destroyer known. No household should he without it, as it instantly k
destroyer known_«o olosetg> bad drainß , &0 . sold at all chemists.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower W'
MtJSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QC**”’
281 BEORBE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W-i
Also, at London, Maybnob, Paris, and Brussels.
laegb t stock in the colonies
it
BULL DO® ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
f|lflS sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
JL quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest passible condition by oj iering SUL: j&t
ALE, which is to be obtained of a!' the leading
Wine and • - Spirit Merchants KEIGWIN and
HAH'TON, >,o?e Went-
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
ftFTEfI BEFORE
Copyrighted. >
smstaihe and Whiskers.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thin,
and will tfo it on either bald
head or bare face■ Forres
heavy Monstache in from 2 to
4 weeks a,inti never fails, 20;000
young men cl ready wear full
OEFOn£ AFTEn
ss
Copyrighted.
f r-' ? h;{' : Vs‘- I !.-■ V. ~h KasU'J Certain
in t'fi.jt'i. i.t r./1--/?, wfoy' p-< f s>nt under
fyre frmn, obr. . ' tldr »>:>■■. Frank !)om:!as. Ayent,
nor ?>'(>, <! P O. , .pW/iw. A >
COOL ALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
OBLLABB an?-: BODISGA.
ge-strset
(Beneath FaUnsrlO
. tn e
THE highest point of perfection m
facture of * .
Gentlemen’s
haring been reached by ourselves, t jj $ J
prepared to supply our Customer
made of any material, cut on the m
principle, . ajj
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EA?
COMFORT, st
and as we use materials of the very ® e s.
durability and good value are also se
k. k. debney kjr
13 HUNTER 1
SYDNEY. d!/
Manufactory .. .. 'M
Great eastern condiment o tAt/
are prepared to execute 0 A
they may be favoured with, on them t ,oy
terms.
T arrive—loo Cases INDIAN v arl° a
consisting of Chutney, m v&LyfO
all the well-known brands
tins and bottles ; Pickles and i d ’iffy#
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, FisCi* te#< J
Cum ana Mulligatawney f( >
Duck, &c. •gse' l I
letters and orders to be » a
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER
2ES. ROWIiAIVDS,
LAT» KOWLAMHB * LBWIB, *
fßanisfacturar of oH kinds of JEratod Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprlotor of Vlgorl**'
BAIiLuLJEULT, MKLAOURNIC, tad at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. '
* the Only &ok> M§dal fir AErattd and Minarai WaHn; mJeo, anothar Ba/d Medal fw Liqueur*,
