

The
Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
pvD'E
FRO OF
•>
on
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Loped.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
r 512 GEORGE SYDNEY.
o
o
s
IRONMONGERS
512
c
<«/
o
&
%
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.l
S
O
\s*
»«;
€>
©3
OOT
4ZAAR
?£ t \j?
■i Sydxjby
Ba
Shoe
'eorge
252 a
a./icL ffcLrcvuj l
PecUe
lale
/ Coißi/ySmvp
A *° /
ip i mh Treacle //
UT¥ RET//VERS /A.
/858 (mlj
rifS
iTTH mi I
KEE7
HEAD OFFICE & FACTORY NEWTOWN BRANCH. CEORCE ST SYDNEY
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERGER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies* English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
-tto
5K>
(KU> Ofy
MVIrC
MOARTTIY <&; CO.,
TOBACCO JVLEIKCiaiA.ZSrTS,
669 Greorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
AW Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Hayanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
SAUCE
ittngßsn
In consequence of Imitations of THE WOR CESJ LRSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Puj-chasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fo? LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell , London, drv., (pc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agonbs: Montefioke, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen Sc 00., Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS. & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL I IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
SRlSj^
mHV
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, EEsGINEER.S’ TOORS and REQUISITES WOODWORKING MACHINERY,
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ EUANT, AGUIOTLTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING RE ANT, RAJ AIRS, CO ACIL BUILDEIIS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS SR PREIES. Bcg.
ROBERTS,
Head Warehouse •
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores-
CHALMERS, & C°*’
- 54 YORK STREET. ■
• HAY and ENGINE STREETS. AK pO#
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
ID INTENT.
w
11=
LI
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
£RU nl
YANKEE
SIR RO.6i.JM
DIXSON & SONS n
N AILROD
champion-
V-
A SON & SONS
OIXSO
DIXSON & SONS
CUT.hUn.fW^’Jtf
R.C RU BY. ORIENTALMIX1 u
CIGARETTF r.QLOUAKg^
mo. ,
WN
15
w
O'?
n
X
U:
o f Q
S/u£
Tkamwa-tLa^
?>!
5T
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlottk-plaoe an* Georg*-strkkt.
K. HIMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Bekr.
Certificate of merit of the first-olaga and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
•Iwt-olaae Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTKL, Comer
Georgs street usd Charlotte-place. Orders by peat aohoited.
lira. Hanney attends personally •“ lady patrons.
'e4ec/^4 o-we
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LAfiGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
/XT
LOWEST COST
0 s
C&A
an®
rlK®
HOIS
EHfitfr
lA
w ers
MO
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED EOR
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22,
king S TIfC


The
Bulletin
Vol. 7—No. 346.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18. 1880.
Price., od.
“Like a Thief in the Night.”
"A move is being made in the direction of having Mr. Garrett appointed to the Leadership of the N.S.W. Opposition in place of Sir Henry Parkes,"-Daily Paper.
PARKES (loq.): “GOOD GRACIOUS, GARRETT, IS IT YOU? I THOUGHT IT WAS ABBOTT.”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advanoe.)
Per annum ~ .. • • • ■ os '
Half-yearly ° '
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
J. M. II Alt DING,
to Whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £l.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Orrespondeuce column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications Will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Buli/etin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending directritjftfHE Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in aiivaN(i— which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
ek for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this offiee,
between September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
he Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1886.
The “Glorious Twenty-sixth.”
Suppose Mickey Cruncher, known now as
the “ Honorable” Mickey, should call all
his friends together—Potts and Darling
Pointers, Government House and the Navy,
Barringtonia and Caringtonia, and after
feeding them well should address them in
this style “ A feast, ladies and gentlemen,
should not be without an occasion, and the
occasion should not miss mention. The oc-
casion of my poor effort is the commemoration
of the most important epoch in my history—
the day I was lagged—the toast I propose to
you is ‘The Day I was Lagged.’ ” What
would be thought of Mickey, what sort of a
flutter would there be amongst the assem-
blage, what lifting of eye-brows in Caring-
tonia, what quakings of heart in Barring-
tonia ! Would not the wretched old man be
voted mad or so naked of common decency
as to be shut out of “sassiety” for ever-
more ?
* * *
Yet what is the difference between the
Hon. Mickey in such circumstances and the
Hon. Premier, whoever he may then be,
rising to propose the toast of the occasion on
the 26th of January, 1888, the date appar-
ently fixed by general official consent for the
celebration of the Australian Centenary !
The day we were lagged, there is nothing else
in it—the day Governor Phillip ranged his
men on the bit of open ground by Sydney
Cove, 600 male and 250 female convicts,
three captains, 12 subalterns, 24 non-com-
commissioned officers, with the doctor, store-
keepers, overseers, floggers, and the parson,
pitched in as a mere afterthought, on the
eve of departure from England, through the
kindness of the benevolent Mr. Wilber-
Force. Six hundred men with traces of
gaol-fever, and scars of foul disease ; 200
females, the scum of London streets the
men handcuffed and dog-chained from waist
to ankle, the women fettered to a long
chain, and the Governor, a good man and
knowing his business well, reading them a good
practical sermon on the necessity of mending
their ways and saving their backs. That i 3
the true picture, the plain tale of the matter,
and what is there in it or about it to demand
or justify any rejoicing ?
* * *
Some few people in New South Wales
have, doubtless, excellent reasons for re-
membering that day in their prayers. Their
ancestors took the Governor’s advice and
founded fortunes. But they did not found
a State Let us be as clear and emphatic as
we can on this head. The clank of those
chains across the beach and up to the edge of
the wood did not accompany the first act of
the making of the Australia of to-day. That
planting had to die—to be choked out, in
fact—before anything that might be called
National life began. For it is indeed true
that for the half-century of convictism
through which Australia passed we were not
a rising nation, but the sink, the cesspit, of
England, Ireland, and Scotland, and the
contempt of the world. The bad seed sown
did not change its nature at all. Ten years
after this marvellous “ birthday,” New South
Wales was peopled by about 4000 convicts,
1500 soldiers and overseers, and a few
free folks who hoped to make a fortune by a
brief sojourn in the southern Hell. Morality
was unknown, religion held generally in con-
tempt, the officers of the precious New South
Wales corps, the old convict guard, picked
the most attractive women from the cpnvict
ships and lived with thorp in Open concu-
binage. Non-commissioned officers came
next, and a well-behaved convict might get
some old harridan to take out to his grant
and begin the propagation of “the Australian
race.”
* * *
Ten years later that most unlucky governor
Bligh tried in his rough way to purge the
Augean stable, but the swine, loving their
own fat rank garbage, rooted him out, and
Macquarie came and turned on the rum-taps
again, and built up such a glorious condition
of Liberty that in the eleventh year of his
reign, the thirty-third of our alleged history,
he caught a party of men and women picnic-
ing on his domain, and tied them up and
flogged them without judge or jury.
* * *
And what had we done in twenty years
more ? What was our condition, our repu-
tation ? Was it not customary for decent
folk in .England receiving relatives from
Australia, or from Botany Bay rather, to
pray them to conceal their connection with
that undesirable place, which was, indeed, in
worse odour than everwas Nazareth amongst
the Jews ? Botany Bay and Van Diemen’s
Land were vigorous in those days, Australia
and Tasmania were unborn. The true Aus-
tralia, indeed, is even yet unborn. True as
beautiful is Brunton Stephens’ poem begin-
ning
i‘ She is not yet—but he whose ear
Thrills to that liner atmosphere—”
And when through whatever shock and
strife, with flux of blood, and test of fire, the
union and birth foreshadowed takes place,
the “ Day We Celebrate ” will come and will
be kept with the pomp it merits and the honour
it deserves through all the cycles of time.
* * *
Out upon this 26th of January, 1788, say
we, with its clank of fetters, crack of whips,
thud of gallows-traps, odour of gaol-fever, vice
and brutal, beastly licentiousness —Mount
Rennie, Mount Carmel, and Woollooffiooloo
outrages are its only legitimate offspring, a
crude and cruel barbarism lingering in law,
a cringing meanness or a stupid assertiveness
amongst labouring men, and a coarseness of
mind and manner amongst “ their betters,”
its chief traceable influences. If we are ‘ ‘ stuck
for a day let us take that on which the still
living Hargraves drove his pick into the
gold-reef, or, better still, that other when
old John West came over from Tasmania,
and William Stawell came up from Vic-
toria, and with Robert Campbell, Charles
Cowper, and old Doctor Lang—blessed be
his brave memoiy ! —unfurled the starry
banner which drove the curse of convictism
from our shores. That was indeed a great
day, a worthy, and in the true sense founda-
tional day, almost large enough to justify the
apt quotation from Carlyle: “A commu-
nity or a nation once raised to a white heat
of enthusiasm is thenceforth considerable in
all its remaining history.” That is the birth-
hour to be noted and acknowledged and
commemorated, the white-heat of enthusiasm
wherein true national impulses are born, and
as yet we have no such day. America waited
200 years for hers, and outlived —be it re-
membered —a beginning wherein were mixed
the elements which were served out undi-
luted to us. And, unless we are determined
to be run by tuft and title-hunters, show-
men, and bagmen, and diplomatic tools, we
had better also wait, and when the time
comes speak, and, if necessary, strike, and so
well that the echoes of our words and blows
shall come to all our posterity cheeringly and
inspiringly through all future years.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
That Illawarra Railway.
The Legislative councillors of New South Wales
have appointed a committee to enquire as to
whether the railway to Kiama should go into that
town or keep outside of it altogether. But this is
only one of the conundrums, in connection with
this very much bungled line, which demands solu-
tion. Exceeding it in point of importance is the
question of station-site, and the desirability of
placing it upon or adiacent to the estate of
Samuel Cn akles, Esq.,M.L.C., or on that of one of
his near relatives. And more important still is the
fact that what was once the fifth section of the
Wollongong to Kiama line, has now become the
first section of the line from Kiama to Jervis Bay.
But as it is not likely that any evidence will he
called for on this latter point, it may interest tax-
payers who have to pay for Ministerial and official
incompetence to know that, as the amount voted
for this Wollongong to Kiama line was inadequate
to the extent of £250,000 or so, the ingenuity of
responsible parties solved the difficulty by chop-
ping off the Kiama end of this section and adding
it on to the Jervis Bay line, so that, as a matter
of fact, that quarter of a million has been twice
voted, and the transferred length of railway twice
provided for. Members and the country alike have
been cleverly hoodwinked (to use a gentle term),
and a disgraceful blunder has, by the means de-
scribed, been carefully hidden. As the onus of
disgrace attaching to this transaction at present
adheres to the Minister who is responsible to Par-
liament for the acts of his officers, it will be neces-
sary for him to publish the full facts of the case,
unless he is content to let it be believed that
he approved of and even directed the use of this
very questionable stratagem. From first to last
this Illawarra line has been an outrageous job.
Surveyed through lands already secured by in-
fluential syndicates ; its construction suspended to
allow further enquiry as to whether it might not
be “ profitably” diverted ; driven through lengthy
tunnels in order that it might pass near certain
estates ; to be completed in one part 18 months
before the preceding section can be used; and
varied as to its sections in order that money
might be twice voted, the line offers every tempta-
tion in all its history for the exertions of an en-
terprising political detective. Conceived by the
spirit of unholy avarice, born of log-rolling and
malfeasance, and growing up in the shadow of
interminable and gross blundering, the Hlawarra
Railway stands as a monument of Ministerial and
official incapacity, negligence, and perhaps crime
against the Constitution of the colony.
A Slant-eyed Daily.
When will the Sydney Daily Telegraph learn
to argue relevantly ? In dealing with the alleged
brutal outrage by certain young white beasts upon
a helpless girl in Moore Park, it drags in the
Chinese question and as much as says that because
the outrage was not perpetrated by Chinamen we
have no right to agitate for their expulsion from
this country ! What in the name of goodness has
that got to do with the matter ? By such idiotic
reasoning we have no right to exclude lepers from
our midst or put a ship in quarantine because
some of ourselves have got the toothache, or a
bilious headache, or are lying sick of scarlet-fever,
or the effects of too much beer, at the hospital.
The Bulletin never stood up for absolute perfec-
tion in the whites. It knows only too well that we
have many criminals amongst us who are as
degraded as men can be, but because we
have such that is no reason why we
should allow the Chinese to evade and defy
our criminal laws, or swell our criminal records,
or make our manners more corrupt. The whites
are bad enough themselves, but they are ever so
much worse by reason of the presence of the
Chinese. After all the question is not so much a
question of morality as one of protection of rights.
Australia belongs to the whites by right. White
brains, white energy, white labour, and white
capital have made it what it is, and a share in its
wealth is the birthright of white people. The
Chinese bring no capital into the country, and
they take away annually, besides, £600,000
of solid capital from New South Wales alone
—which is a yearly “backhander” for the
colony. What they gain we lose. Individuals
suffer just now, the nation will suffer ultimately.
The Chinamen exist through the selfishness of
some whites who practically share their plunder
with them. We cannot reach those white rob-
bers —those traitors in the camp —but we can
reach the “yellow spoilers,” and demand that
they shall forthwith depart.
«.
Two Million Pounds !
Once more and with much regret do we feel com-
pulsion to subscribe ourselves Advocatus Diabolus.
For an old man died a couple of weeks ago and
there has been constant effort since to make of
him a saint—Mr. Thomas Walker, of Concord,
Saint Thomas by the verdict of the Sydney daily
Press and the pulpits of the city. He died worth
£2,000,000. He had been worth something like
that for years past. He had known that hunger
and want existed in the colony and the city, prac-
tically at his door. He was a churchman and
knew that the church he favoured was languish-
ing for want of funds. He knew also that all the
artistic life of the city was poverty-stricken, pining
for need of a little generous encouragement, and
yet he lived and died worth his two millions, and
the hunger and want remained unappeased. He
gave £lO,OOO once in one year to various charities
—£lo,ooo out of two millions, a fraction maybe, of
one year’s surplus, a portion of what remained
after satisfying his every want, and the drum
ecclesiastic in pulpit and in press was beaten about
it, and the whole world summoned to do homage
to a charitable man. A charitable man, forsooth!
The tradesman who gives five shillings to a
hard-up mate is a thousand times more de-
serving of the title. There is no charity
without sacrifice, and sacrifice unless to himself
Thomas Walker never made. As many another
rich banker, merchant, and agent in the city, he
had ground the bones of victims innumerable to
build up his golden mountain, upon which he sat
through all his later years impotent and joyless,
simply a barrier preventing a vast supply of fer-
tilising wealth from doing its proper work in the
world. He must never get into the calendar of
the good saints. Martin, who divided his cloak
with the beggar; Christopher, who gave all
his great strength to carry poor folks across the
ferry, could never live in the same heaven with
him. He will need purging through a half-dozen
more lives before he is fit company for the saints
who know the full meaning of the simple Scripture
“It is more blessed to give than to receive.”
Among the “charitable” ones he was, perhaps,
the best, but, after all, how much of charity did
this man of millions show ?
♦
Something to Jeer At.
Mr. Harold Stephen’s Bill for the abolition of
flogging was jeered at in the New South Wales
Assembly and practically ignored by the daily
press. Let us put before the public a few of Mr.
Stephen’s points—and our own. New South
Wales is a colony whose Government pays £lOOO a
year to doggers and hangmen, and yet haggles
about giving £5OO a year to the Art Society. It is
a colony whose Parliament but the other day
enacted that a man whose sentence of death had
been commuted to 15 years’ imprisonment might,
in addition, be twice flogged —the wise Sir Alfred
Stephen (who, by the way, was a Crown Prose-
cutor in the refined and high-toned colony of
Vandemonia 50 years ago) being apparently of
opinion that a man who had not been deterred
from crime by the prospect of hanging would be
deterred by flogging ! Under section 446 of the
code, stipendiaries may, for a “wanton assault”
(committed possibly during a pot-house brajvl), or
for obscene or blasphemous language (!!) —the for-
meruttered, itmay have been while the offender was
""drunk, the latter given expression to while he was
thoroughly sober and talking well within what he
impiously considered his moral right—order a man
to be flogged within six hours after conviction,
no time therefore being given for appeal against a
sentence passed by a couple of mere magistrates,
and which, once carried out might bring upon a
citizen utter physical, moral, and social damna-
tion. In New South Wales, under a code deliber-
ately passed by two Houses of Parliament and as-
sented to by the Crown less than five years ago,
a man’s soul may be flogged out because he
has plucked a rose in another man’s garden,
,or because he has scratched the wall of a
public building, or because he has thrown a
stone at the disgraceful carvings on Sydney
Post-office. All authorities on prison discipline
agree that only humane men should be allowed to
act as prison-warders. Yet the New South Wales
Government permits the warders of its peniten-
taries to act as floggers. “ If,” says Mr. Stephen,
“ there is one man more despicable than another
on the face of God’s earth it is he who will flog
his fellow-creatures for the sake of a few shillings.
A man who will do this is no more fit to be en-
trusted with the care of criminals than the veriest
lunatic in the asylum.” Nevertheless, the fact is
that the New South Wales Government partially
entrusts the reformation of prisoners to men far
more brutal and degraded than the average con-
vict. And this is the colony which has invited
the British Associati n to come and inspect it !
A Cloud in the East.
During the last fortnight Alexander of Bulgaria
has risen again and then fallen with a fall like
that of Lucifer into the abyss of oblivion. Ap-
parently his courage gave way beneath the insults
and cruelties he suffered during liis imprisonment,
and after a vain attempt to propitiate the Czar by
3ervile submission, he has resigned his throne and
disappeared from the list of reigning sovereigns.
It is many years since even a Russian tyrant has
dared to, play such a game with the crown of a
civilised kingdom, and the perpetual shuffling
which has gone on in Eastern Europe within the
last few weeks reminds us of those revolutionary
times in Israel, when one bloodthirsty pretender
after another pegged out his claim on the throne of
Jeroboam, only to fall a day or two later before
the attacks of some more daring and energetic
usurper. It seems now to be almost too late to
hope for the maintenance of peace in Europe. The
Tory Premier, at the opening of the present session
of Parliament, laid down as one of the great
features of his policy the preservation of the
Ottoman Empire, and, indeed, having virtually
expunged Ireland from the list of his respon-
sibilities, it was necessary/to run Turkey
in to fill the gap. There seems now to be
every probability that Turkey will fill the gap
very successfully. The North German Gazette,
which takes its inspiration from the iron
Chancellor, calls on the Czar to start his
grey-coated legions on the road to Stamboul, and
if Salisbury is to prove himself anything better
than a petrified Conservative, he is bound, after
his late confession of faith, to stop the way. The
Turk, as Garibaldi said, “must go away to
Broussa,” but the Tories are pledged by every
promise that a Tory can hold sacred to defer as
long as possible the retreat of the Tartar tribes
into Asia. There is a close resemblance, too,
between Turk and Tory which makes the work
one of brotherly affection. In truth, however,
there is nothing to choose between Russian and the
Ottoman, and it matters little from a humane
standpoint which of these ruffianly hordes comes
out uppermost. But Lord Salisbury has under-
taken to back the red-capped murderer who be-
lieves in Allah against the other flat-headed
assassin who believes in whisky, and the roar of
cannon in the East will come opportunely to drown
the cry of an oppressed nation in Ireland, and the
wail of sorrow and suffering and rising disaffec-
tion throughout Great Britain. The ‘ ‘ spirited
foreign policy ” which Disraeli bequeathed to a
suffering nation is the perpetual device by which
his party attempt to divert attention from
British troubles at home to other peoples’
troubles abroad, and the pork-hating Mos-
lem has propped up more than one Cabinet
which had nothing to recommend it except its
insane desire to back the pot against the kettle on
the plains of Macedonia. Lord Salisbury’s posi-
tion is too precarious to allow him to stand aside
in the event of a general European war. He must
kill somebody abroad to save himself from politi-
cal death at home ; and should hostilities break
out Australia has every chance of being involved
in tremendous dangers, if not in actual disaster,
all because the rulers of a little island in far-away
Europe have sworn that the greasy Muscovite
shall not sun himself on the peaks of ancient
Lebanon, or prowl through the streets of Stamboul
and Jerusalem. With the present Tory programme
before us we have but one cause for genuine
thankfulness. Imperial Federation has not yet
been accomplished—if it had it might have been
our duty to guard the dog-infested capital of the
Sultan from foreign attack, and Australians
might have gained a new insight into the hydra-
headed Eastern Question while watching the
progress of the colonial levies in a campaign among
the Balkans.
+
Primate Barry and Socialism.
The concluding part of Bishop Barry’s lecture,
“ Christianity and Socialism,” is remarkable for
its ambiguity. From so skilful an artificer we ex-
pected a keen-pointed weapon, capable of affecting
no uncertain results upon an antagonist, but the
expectation was vain. After some verbosity on
the futility of certain undefined revolutionary
attempts to set civilisation right, the Primate
says, “ The greater and slower influence which
has already destroyed slavery and serfdom, which
has created at least the idea of universal brother-
hood . . . will yet, we trust, do its deep and
enduring work.” This greater and slower influence
we presume to be Christianity. Truly this in-
fluence is slow —but great, hardly. Let Bishop
Barry contrast the result of eighteen centuries
of Christian influence with the more secularised
influences of the present century, and then ask
himself if it really has been slow Christian influence
which has accomplished the abolitition of slavery
and serfdom and implanted the idea of universal
brotherhood. He is not unaware how Christianity
embraced the civilisation of Europe, Africa, and
Western Asia in her octopus-arms and never re-
laxed until every sign of animation had been ex-
hausted. He is not unaware how she swept from
the reach of humanity the accumulated knowledge
of ages, not slowly indeed, but swiftly and too
surely. He is not unaware, either, how, conse-
quent upon the loss of this magnificent heritage,
the portion of human race thus wronged relapsed
into intellectual, moral, and physical depravity.
Neither can he be ignorant that with the increase
of the sum of human knowledge every good quality
in man is in a like ratio increasing. Is is not, then,
strikingly evident that the diffusion of secular
knowledge is the great enemy to slavery and serf-
dom, and the cementer of mankind into a common
brotherhood ? It is perhaps needless to tell him,
though history declares it in trumpet tones, that
it is the spread of knowledge that has elevated
the character of the present-day Christianity.
That it is increase of knowledge that has lopped
off many of the unsightly excresences which dis-
figured it when greater ignorance prevailed ; and
that increased knowledge in the widest sense is
the remedy for all the evils he deplores, and
without it Christianity is dead. Doubtless Bishop
Barry ascribes the abolition of serfdom in Russia
to Christianity, but to unbiassed minds it would be
difficult to show any other cause for that step on
the part of Russia except the growing strength
and ominous mutterings of the serfs themseh es.
Let him look back at the behaviour of the great
luminaries of that section of the church to v. hich
he is attached, as evidenced in their attitude to-
wards slavery when it was placed before them for
their judgment. If judged by their action can
it be said Christianity has destroyed slavery ] It
will be found as hard to answer the brotherhood
question affirmatively.
4
Unhappy Homestead Lessees.
A wail of discontent throughout the country
arises from the Homestead Lesees of New South
Wales who have not yet been put in possession ot
their areas. The Land Act came into force on the
1st January, 1885, the Lands office had had several
months’ notice of the new order of things, an
applications were sent in almost immediately, 3 e
the huge majority of leases have not been
1 gazetted. In the Hillston district not a single


Homestead lessee has obtained possession, and
many of them have been put to such loss by the
delay that if they could get back what the appli
cation has cost them they would never trouble the
Lands office of the colony again. Ruinous as the
delay is to these applicants, it is correspondingly
profitable to the squatters who can run their stock
all over the areas applied for, thus getting pastur-
age which costs them nothing and spelling their
own paddocks for future use. Rain has recently
fallen in every pastoral district and caused a rich
spring of grass, but this will not benefit the un-
happy homesteaders. The squatters’ sheep
and cattle will fatten and when the lease
is at length granted, the lessee will find his area
as bare as a road, with no prospect of improving
until the summer heat has passed away. It is not
possible to assign any reasonable or sufficient
cause for this delay. Settlement is effected in
other young countries and colonies without any
similar dilatoriness, and as satisfactory motive or
use is wanting, the sufferers by the system will
assign a cause which is eminently unsatisfactory,
hey will say that the Lands officers are corrupt,
at the squatters intrigue against the homestead
sees, and that while many lose, there are some
hers who reap an unholy and corrupt advantage
y this inexplicable tardiness of action.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
1“ The country round here looks as green and as
fresh as a Chinese garden,” writes a back-blocks editor. The
editor himself, we suppose, looks as yellow and fresh as a
Chinese gardener.... Twenty-six Chinese gamblers fined 70s.
each at Townsville Says the Roma Free Press re the
local show The monster cabbages, and big turnips and
car ets, we imagine, will go to gladden the hearts of some of
our four-footed friends." This is indeed a nice way to jibe at
the opposition editors... .Each officer of the Victorian Civil
Service is required to insure his life for double the
amount of the maximum salary of his class Booth
and beer are just now fighting it out in Queensland ;
blue ribbon and blue ruin are tearing each other’s hair in a
frantic scrimmage, and the flowing bowl promises soon to
hold nothing more deadly than cod liver oil Lord Caring-
ton will visit Tenterfield next month. They haven’t yet
started the customary quarrel about who’ll pay the reception
expenses... .Two hundred and sixty diggers from Kimberley
have landed at Cooktown (Q.) They say unanimously that
the new field is not fit even for a dog to die in. Some of the
men on the field are looking for Mr. O’Donnell (who praised
she place in the papers). They want to give him a testi-
monial—of buckshot... .H. E. King, pressman, late Speaker
>f the Queensland Assembly, has been admitted as a barrister.
.The Yankee ass who writes Salvation Army hymns has again
[truck the joyous lyre, and the following sample has been
ent over to Australia to be banged out on the big hosannah
Irum at every street corner in this drum-cursed land
“ We’ll give our hearts to God!
Chorus —For this is the prop
This is the prop
This is the proper caper.
[Repeat chorus eight times.]
“ For He has saved my soul from sin
Chorus —For this is the prop
This is the prop
This is the proper caper.”
he man who would sing such a hymn deserves to be sawn
sunder—The N.S.W. murder and suicide rate is terrible
ist now. The Evening News has got apoet. ...Some snob
r other has ordered that Port Moresby (New Guinea) be
eneeforth called “ Granville ” as a dim remembrance fondly
ept of that miserable mediocrity A new R.C. Bishop is
ibe appointed for the Maories. He must be a Land
eaguer, or he won't suit... .Under Sir Sawmill Griffith’s
:w Publicans Act, an hotelkeeper is bound to attach his
ime to every lengthy beer which leaves his premises in a
lly-can, bucket, or big gin-bottle The strain of Tory lies
oke down the cable last week. The last thumper it carried
is that “ Mr. Sexton, member for Sligo,” (instead of for
dfast) had &c. No decent cable could stand it.
* * *
Dr. Freire, of Rio, inoculated 7000 people
• yellow fever, only seven or eight of whom died. 3000 un-
jculatedpersonsdied under identical surrounding conditions
.An ardent Gladstonian at the late British election made
;rab at a Tory’s blue favour and caught—some fish-hooks.
vited Ireland is again being sued for libel by a “ Loyal-
” writer, one Hastings, who claims £5OOO for these words :
‘ The fate of Mr. Hastings's foul Liberal gazette is a
lolesome reminder that the manufacture of filthy calumnies
on Irish leaders is no longer a paying game."
ith Joey, barmaid, was given two months’ hard labour at
.mmersmith (E.) for stealing a few shillings from her em-
yer. In defence, she said she wanted to make up 10s. to
eto her uncle to put “on a horse.” He had been doing
lly lately —86 years since, Parnell’s great grandfather,
Right Hon. Sir John Parnell, was dismissed from the
ancellorship of the Irish Exchequer for opposing the
ion Annie R. Butler, in her book on “Glimpses of
oriland,” written (of course) for the Tract Society, gives
i fair sample of the way in which the hair-breadth 'scapes
niasionaries are dished up for the encouragement of rich
maids and paralysed heathen-saving philanthropists :
have come to kill you,’ said a native one day. ‘ Very
l; just wait till I have finished my dinner.’ And then,
ing his chest, he went to the man, saying, ‘ I’m ready
’, shoot I’ This fearlessness daunted the Maori, who
ik away without attempting the deed.” This is rather an
ent yarn, but still it may catch a stray saxpence The
ructions to the N.Y. Herald Artie expedition are plain
pointed, viz., to reach the North Pole “You call
■selves by holy names and live like devils, threading the
>rs of life as manya muck-worm does." These flattering
la were rcently addressed by H. W. Beecher to a fashion-
London congregation, and must have made them sit up.
is estimated that there are now 400,003 Knights of Labour
ae United States... .The £1 shares of one Indian gold-
ng spec., the Mysore, stand in London at £8 each
Tories talk of making the Marquis of Lome Viceroy of
nd. They might as well give the position to the Soudan
... .The pressman went to get his portrait taken, and the
o. man, placing some books upon the table, observed
it was usual to have some journalistic accessories dis-
All right, then,” said the patient, “ put on a
e o brandy, and a soda syphon, or a pack o’ cards or
[thing!’’... .In Russia, the Czar has ordered an imnie-
i diminution of Court allowances. The Empress’s pin-
ey, which was £95,000, is to be something under £32 000
Czarewitch s income is cut down from £47 500 to half
amount, beside palace expenses. His brothers are to
ve £5OOO instead of £15,000 a year... .When Queen Vic-
first summoned a chapter of the Order of the Garter
ent for the Duke of Norfolk, and after arrangin'* all the
Is of the ceremony, said, with innocent naivete “But
>rd duke, where am I to wear the garter?” The duke
id that he recollected having seen some picture of Queen
i, m which the Garter was worn on the left arm. Her
sty decided on following the example of her last female
ceesor.
De:ar Bulletin.—A short while since I was in
Sydney, and haying o D ly one day to spare resolved to see the
pictures in the Art Gallery. I went there, and was refused
admission by the doorkeeper, “ because I'had no coaf on
Now, sir, I am a drover, and never wear a coat, for I have
need of one, and as the Gallery is, I understand a fr
national institute, I want to know whether the doorkeepe
was acting legally in refusing me entrance. My clothing w
clean, I take my bath regularly, and I was perfectly sobe
I would have made the keeper explain, only that there was
pohceman present, and as I was afraid he might “yard ” m
‘f A klcke d up a row, I left quietly. Is this a free country ’
-Yours, Drover. [The doorkeeper's business, we take i
“Ply to see that the demands of decency are satisfied
he has nothing to do with the requirements of fashion
the circumstances were exactly as stated by “Drover” th
janitor had no right to refuse admission. In Australia
avJ't e Af I "V COa n^ e^ rin u 13 cus t°mary, exactly as it is custom
ary to take a drink when you re asked, no matter whethe
you want it or not. We are sure our friend Drover would A
be so uncivil as to refuse a drink if we asked him to join us
and we hope than when next he visits the Gallery he’ll bor
row a coat for an hour.— Ed. B.] y 11 Dor
Bulletin,— One of your correspondents has alread
addressed you on the subject of country hospitals This i
shearing season so he could not have selected a more appro
priate time. I should like you now toknow that his opinfon
are moderate compared with that of most bushmen You
know how I travel (this year even I have given Barwon
Bogan, Lachlan, and Castlereagh a turn), and you have you
of judging matters bushy. !We are
of opinion that country hospitals are only a swindle No sub
Of ST C * an make , a certainty ofmedTcal aid when it
is most needed. A cursed lot of storekeepers publicans e
hog genus °mne can send a client in at a nod but we are
hawked about from pillar to post until aggravation of thf
disease, or accident, has occurred, and thf first question is
Have you any money? If not, pauper i You know mv
address, and I fear the law of libel. Therefore I do not
tell you that a girl (a good-looking little girl too) was
sent last year to a neighbouring town, and her mother was
told that the hospital was full She °-ot a hrUtmAf v*?
ment. without a label. This I believe° to be Ule®a° and
I got it reported to the police and the hospital committee
Next day the girl was moribund and admitted, and ““there
are wattles in the cemetery we (but that we were amrrv as
wed as sorrowful) had everything for the usual poetry onVI
(Uiy A lfter I f, r illness. Death was recorded, I be-
sort ’Tt w 6 r S ault of . ensypelas.” It was nothing of the
tw 5 w . as , Pyemia, from a bite of some sort. Why did
they not pitch a tent, or hire a room for the lass ? I need not
multiply instances. The one I mention is the latest thit T
can vouch for. Up to last year I always gave my humble
quid/sed non pro quoJ, but now my ward is in th?pub mv
bones.-HS l AB°^P < : hanCe Under the bush saw!
SHADOW-HUNTING.
A BIT OF KIMBERLEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY F.M.
Two travellers, about 60 miles from Wyndham, came
< cross a body in an advanced state of decomposition, and,
? 3l i?' buttoned up tightly in an old long-tailed
black coat. Papers found in the pockets proved it to be that
Paper 11 a<i once Jcept an hotel at Sandhurst.”—Daily
<( HiUo, daddy !” the lads sang out —
Here s luck, dad! ” as the ship hauled out;
Poor old dad, in his old black coat,
Buttoned up tightly from knees to throat.
Where are you bound for?” “What’s your
lay ? ”
f( up a coffin-shop ’bout half-way ? ”
Law now or physic by ounces sold,
Or a sermon may be on the thirst for gold ?”
u J^ over mind, lads,” the old man says,
1 he old black coat has seen better days—
Bendigo gullies, and Black Hill leads,
Deep Greek boozes, and Shamrock feeds ;
Wo followed our shadows to seek them out,
But things have turned right round about.
Vic.’s all dead now, and New South done ;
And east from the sea must the new track run.”
Bully, old dad ! ” said the lads with zest,
As the long ship plunged round the cape due west.
So-long, old dad ! ” said the lusty wag,
As ho jogged along past on his wiry nag.
“ You’ll never get up, man,” the trooper said ;
But, lie pushed along nodding his old grey head.
And the noise and the chaff and the dust went by
As he said, “ Shadow points, and I won’t say die.”
So the seventh, eighth, ninth days passed, and still
He toiled through the sand-flats —crept up the
hill ;
And the tenth day rose, and he somehow found
As his quaint, dark shadow went round and
round —
In his heart new pangs, in his limbs new pain,
And a Are growing hot in his aching brain.
So he stood on the ridge and laughed to see
The long thing point out so steadily,
Right to the world’s rim, murky and red,
Longer, more faint, till the day was dead.
Then he shivered and shook, though the old black
coat
Was buttoned up tightly from knees to throat.
And he slept by his swag, but he woke, for soon
Right out of the East came the great red moon ;
I he great round moon growing white and bright,
With deep dead eyes like the graves of night:
The great moon lifting his long grey hair,
For he rose up straight and he looked, and there
Was the long 1 quaint shadow, and pointing back
Like Death’s own finger along the track.
And, Shadow,” he said (for his brain was hot),
He needs must perish who follows not.
Shadow, I follow, and hey, good moon,
VV e will come to the gold hills sure, and soon! ”
“ Follow he followed, and fast and fast,
And the white moon rose as the miles went past,
And his shadow came in, and he paused, and now
Cold sweat broke out on his burning brow.
Shadow, what means it?” The great moon
elomb
Right up to the crown of the star-pierced dome.
Shadow! ” he oried, as a lost man cries
To the wretch who leaves him before he dies ;
And he dashed out left and he dashed out right
And he looked up aloft to the great still night. ’
“ None now to lead me and none to save,”
He stood on his shadow, and on his grave.
In his old black hat and his old black coat,
Buttoned up tightly from knees to throat—
He was there at the morn when the red sun came
Over sandridge and scrub-patch with steps of
flame';
He was there when the white moon rose again,
But he oast no shadow along the plain.
And the dingo came and snuffed and saw,
But howled as he vanished with empty maw.
And the crow flapped up on the long-scent trail
But turned from the sight like a fluttered quail’-
And the myall lurking just looked and went
Like a black snake back to the thick scrub sent ■
But two men hurrying out to the front,
Stopped with a start in their phantom hunt.
And Hillo ! they said, ‘ ‘ are you there old
sport ?”
Then, “ God, but it is !” as they pulled up short
And came down slow and stood off and said,
“ Wrapped up like a mummy, and dead—yes
dead! ”
And coffin and shroud was the old black coat
Buttoned up tightly from knees to throat.
Folding as guarding, shrunk skin, parched bones
Covered up lightly with loose grey stones ;
Marked \cith a chopped tree, rude and sad,
Half way to Kimberley—Poor Old Dad !
CORRESPONDENCE
Phelan . We really cannot spare time or
lingers in ° f Wells ‘ while a ain * le nation
lingers m the thraldom of remorseless tyrants “j
«* •» .■•S.i.-.J,
woufd he' the 8 r urn all t 0 the bac hel°rs of,” &c„
would be the correct designation. Subscribe r" (Bulll)'
Srfe r ss th? re^ rit , e “ Tum bulgum ”; Could not print
it for less than a King s ransom. The only remedy is a com-
W ln Henrv e o aUa " te Unit " : YoUr a<lvice ab <»“ ««d-
-late «/ reetrade ° r Protecti °n” comes too
late. Your easy confidence in dealing with questions of such
S n thatvo POrt r d C ° mi,leXity rath<;r -Clines us to S
_ „ , ' x lus 1 ltra . Certainly; translate
l 0^ r no,l -f e -P lu >M as meaning “no more such stuff.”,
t. tr» ( f\ Urat,: You ' l°howi„g Henry George, argue
that I rotection is prevention. Even so, it seems that pro-
tcctive prevention is better than your Freetrade cure,.
• M r- Sexton isn't member for Sligo ;he represents
elfast Bargo ; The proper day for the Australian
Centenary celebration is the anniversary of the Bulletin's
publication.. “Oyster Johnnie”: “You naughty boy I"
a.g. (Forest Lodge): Either way is correct. (2) Yes
° Wens ” : A Welshman, when he
tells the truth and is honest, is aB good as any other man
and we have never said to the contrary. But we see no
special reason why the country of which Sydney is the
capital, should be named after Wales. If would be just
as appropnate to name it after a part of Dahomey
Qmz : Kindly tell us at what address a letter explaining
things will reach y0u.... “Colfax”: You might just as well
ask us whether the O'Sullivan, when he siiid that a “ large
number of people in N.S.W. made their living in an indirect
way out of the iron-industry,” referred to the M.L.A.'s who
take commish. on Government iron-contracts “Jabez”-
Your eighteen verses contain one healthy sentiment: that
though a young man may be a very excellent tailor's son and
a hrst-rate tailor's assistant he makes an all-fired
effervescent ass of himself when he becomes a Lanceah,
and does the cavalry bump-trot when riding down
King-street. Divine Providence never intended any de-
cent Australian citizen to bump while trotting...." J.c.”:
Ihe animal that is wanted to squash the rodent is not the
weasel, or therat, orthefox, buttheyetuntriedelephant, which
couldn t hybridise with anything. The result of a weight-
for-age struggle between an elephant and a rabbit could not
for a moment remain in doubt....“H. G. Hamilton"- Re-
KaSS ” : Thanks ' We think a large number
of the staff have enjoyed the hospitality of your respected
father. Onto" (Cambewarra): Received....“ Omicron " •
Many thanks....“ J.S.M.” (Bowning): Good and true....
A Freethinker”: Subject already dealt with....“ L.L.” :
Yes, but Mortimer’s cacoethes scribendi would have had but
little show without Henty’s cacoethes expendi. ... “ Agricola ” ;
Much more patriotic sentiment than poetry in your lines!
¥ou do not yet seem capable of appreciating the cadences of
correct verse ..« Arthur G.”: You say that you cannot find
out which of the N.B.W. politicians we support. Your
failure in this respect is not surprising; we support none,
I and when y° u corae *0 know more about them, you will
I understand why...." H.M." (Ballarat): Lines are not even
Irt to be read at the funeral of a bull-pup... ."Australia "
(WoHongong); You ask us to put your six sides of Imperial
Federation slush on the “front paige of The Bullitin.”
Australia,” the immensity of your cheek is only excelled by
the abysmal badness of your pome.... “H. R. Salmon ”: No
your composition is not lyric poetry. It is only alleged
poetry ..." Signum ” : Comrner, ts noted. It is a somewhat
difficult matter to deal with... “ J.A.S.": Your poem is like
Mahomet s coffin-it is not good enough to be exalted by
pu ilication, but it is too good to be dropped into the usual
receptacle “Speculator” (Bathurst): Re “Democrat’s”
sweep see Flood and Field in this issue “P.H."- Your
MS. tore easily enough.... “Donald Cameron"! Letter re-
'' •" In< l uire Within ”: Yes, the issue of the 19th May,
ISB3, was first of the new sei ies. We do not recognise quota-
tion. .. K.I. : You are a funny fellow, but your wit will not
stand printing.... “Scott”: R0t...." Veritas”: Thanks for
item. H.E.P.M.D., &c.": Is it worth printing? Some of
it is, this chunk for instance :
Deep down in his heart he had made her his own, all his
own till life’s journey was ended,
For whatever love worships it claims. 'Twas ever so; and
will be through all the dim ages to come.
Her fair face and brighthair flitted through all his dreams
-vague grey vision-but life-like and splendid.
But despair kept him silent; or madness; the madness that
suiters and is dumb.”
Read it, Henry, and then sit down, and try and satisfy your
conscience with your excuse for writing such stuff
‘Beach Jawbone”: Call round and explain your cartoon.
1 . Hon t call, your cartoon got burnt “ J.A.S.” (Bar-
renjoey): Soulful, but second-class... ."Bard”: Now what
has Beach ever done that you should throw such stuff at
him ? You write :
“ Is he brave as he is strong
For victory lives with pluck-oh ;
Lee across his bows doth foul,
He silent keeps but clears away
With four such strokes ne’er seen before.”
If our William couldn't pull better than you can write
poetry, Brickhill’s Baby would be fit to lick him in a walk.
“A.H.M.”: You know as much about fiscal policy as Abi-
gail does of the “oviparous nature of the omithorynchus
and Australian porcupine,” but certainly not more
“ outh ” : One of your sketches has already been published in
another paper; the other will never be published in any
paper “J.8.D.": We never expect to seethe time arrive
when lawyers will decline, through hatred of the race, to
defend Chinamen. In the case you cite wherein four China-
men, charged with allowing filth to remain on their pre-
mises, were defended by Mr. "Tommy” Williamson, who
got them off by raising the objection that the appointment
of the inspector was not under seal, there is really nothing
to show that the lawyer named was not assured of their in-
nocence. And further he may be of opinion that China-
men generally are angelic and soulful creatures, whom
it is almost a religious duty to defend in any case.,..
" Q ua eros ’ : Glad to hear from you always “ Wanaka ” •
Good stuff but too sultry...." W.S.A.”: Certainly, write
again if the exercise pleases you. Matches are very cheap
• •'' C - E " (Mouat M'Donald) : Too hot to be safely
™ lllled “ Jimps” : Received “ James M‘Manus " :
When you have an untameable tiger securely caged you do
not tease him by lashing him through the bars of his den.
When you have your tiger-man safely within the four walls of
a prison for a long term what useful end do you gain by
flogging him ? We hold that under any circumstances flog-
ging only further debases alike the offender and the com-
munity which flogs him ; but the logicless brutality of the
law which lashes a man, no matter how debased, before he
undergoes a long sentence is worthy only of old Vandemonia..
~J : (Balma!n) ; If we Understand the policy of the
Sydney D.l. it is to give the people what they want, a* far as
this can be estimated by the directorate; the Herald, on
the contrary, aims at giving its readers what they ought to
want, but usually don't-reports of Congregational tea-
meetings, &c. Your jocular estimate of the aims of the two
papers does not coincide with ours in any way... J.H.M. ”
Leander, “Arka,” “Borodino,” “A.P.,” “R.EG ”
W.B., “Patient Applicant,” “Admirer,” “D.T.E. ”
Henry Jones,” “A.T.E.,” “Macquarie Squatter,” and
scores of others: Received.
B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE ~
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
uvERMAMTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS all
Cmatch.
3 £
L 2 3
[r
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR,
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton.
ami ljfl.mn
4* Q PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste. Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
FomSraD*23£a« bJrUwMOOT
O o ™n!.?, N^ TABLES
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
/™« y ’ir PIUSh ’ &a BRADLEY, NEWTON
Sii A S S tt F ' ,rmtare *"»—* OVonnJZ
——
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, # Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-'
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comm©
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs'!
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
uuonnell-street. ’
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs^H
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb"
WALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier—a desideratum for the Barrig
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy— especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I/lASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
AJ rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
a
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited
and any single artiele can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
E^'^ DJUSTING CHAIR and. COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKINGEASYCHATRsTeIeganriiiSI^
, *??« a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
i-iamb, O Connell-street.
Bedsteads, aii B izes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and’
LAMB,
Importers,
0 Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowestTratos
y BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SPRING MATTRASSES
"Woven Wire, beat
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.
Cheap furniture.
138. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. Kitten
nressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 5?
Che, t , o( from 10,.; wLrdZe,
80s., Cedar Chiffoniers, from 3Qs. ; Cedar Side
boards, from £3 105.; Clothes Ho*s» fromTos fid -
Writing Tables, with drawers, from ’*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The style in which Beach polished off his
three opponents in the sweepstakes makes it clear
enough that his life in London has not been
marred by any of those amiable weaknesses in
which champions have so much temptation to in-
dulge. The lesson of Hanlan’s champagne-train-
ing was taken to heart by Our William, appar-
ently, and he profited by it. Much as we mis-
trusted his policy in starring at the music-halls on
his first arrival in London, it must now be ad-
mitted that William has justified those per-
formances. After taking down Gaudaur’s number
(and he promises to do so) Beach ought to be able
to do his starring all over again at an augmented
figure. He will then be champion indeed. Never-
theless, there will always be people to doubt
whether Beach at his best could have beaten
Hanlan at his best. No line can be obtained
through such men as Teenier or Wallace Ross,
for three years ago the Canadian could lose eithei
of them as Beach loses them to-day. Wallace Ross,
in particular, is a fraud of long standing. He was a
younger and a better sculler than he is now when
Laycock rowed him down with ease. On the
strength of that performance, Laycock was subse-
quently matched against Hanlan, and the latter
simply played with Ross s conqueror. these
memories of the past have to be freshened up
before we can arrive at anything like a fair esti-
mate of Beach’s recent performances. We see
that Mr. “ Billy ” Innes describes him as better
than Renforth in his best day.” It is odd that an
experienced writer like Innes should make such a
ridiculous comparison. Renforth was an oarsman
of the brute -strength pattern, who flourished in
the dark ages of fixed seats. Renforth wiested
the championship of England from Harry Kelly,
when his powers were waning. Kelly was subse-
quently beaten by Joe Sadler, who in turn suc-
cumbed to Trickett. We should judge the present
form of even Teenier to be better than that of Ren-
forth in his best day.
* * *
In running over the results of the Austra-
lian cricketing tour we think it will be found that
none of our batsmen have scored a “ century ”
against the best English bowling. Palmer knocked
up 93 in the match With South of England, and
followed this up by taking 6 wickets for 61. It
would have been well if an earthquake had put a
stop to play at the conclusion of the Englishmen’s
first innings. In their follow on they made 450.
Spofforth taking 4 wickets for 112. Considering
that the South had a ■ heavy “dead horse” to
work off, this performance clearly demonstrates
that the “Demon” can no longer funk the
Britishers out of a game.
* * *
“Democrat,” the Sydney consultation
philanthropist, who invites subscription of £ll,OOO
for three sweeps, asserts in a very much dis-
tributed circular that The Bulletin has pub-
lished a testimonial as to the bona-fldes of his
enterprise. “Democrat” should have stated,
also, that the #aid testimonial appeared in the
advertising columns and was charged for at the
usual rate. No editorial comment as to the affair
has been made, nor can there be any such, foi it is
manifestly impossible to guarantee the future
action of anyone who preserves his anonymity.
We have called “Democrat” a philanthropist
because it would appear from his circular that the
full amount subscribed is to be returned to
winners, “Democrat” apparently being requited
for the expenses by the satisfaction he will natur-
ally feel in being the humble means of gratifying
those who are fortunate enough to scoop the mag-
nificent pools he is now diligently preparing. A
correspondent writes to ask if The will
guarantee his investment of a little “quid” on
the affair : firmly, though regretfully, we decline
to do so. It may be genuine, and the “commit-
tee of influential public gentlemen whose names
are above suspicion ” may be all that fancy paints
them, but The Bulletin does not know them,
and would not guarantee them if it did.
* * *
The papers are, we are glad to hear, a
little premature in their statement that Mr. D,
W. Gregory is about to resign the hon. secretary-
ship of the N.S.W. Cricket Association.
According to the
Sydney D.T., “in the
opinion of every good
judge, Samuels is the
fastest runner ever seen
in Australia.” Samuels
may he all they claim
for him, but it seems a
little “ too previous ”
to say he could have
given a start to Frank
Hewitt and “ Scone ”
Watson when at their
best. There is some
talk of a match be-
tween Samuels and
Malone, hut it is not
likely the pair will
come to terms. It is
stated that Samuels
has left behind him in
Queensland a black
brother who can give
the Botany hero a few
yards and a beating in a
150yds. spin.
* * *
A little story re an
English sculler who
some years ago visited
Australia, and com-
peted at an up-country
sculling race. On the
morning of the race
Englishman A waited
on the kerb, while his
trainer B, who had
never left his man an
instant for the previous
fortnight, went into the
bank to obtain the final
deposit, which had to
he paid inthat morning.
Another trainer, C, was
standing at the door of a pub. alongside and
knowing the Britisher’s failing, asked him to take
a drink. A had a big thirst on him that morning
and stepped inside, when C served him out the
best part of a tumbler of neat gm and then hur
ried him out to his place on the kerb. To this
day B wonders why the Britisher did not show up
to his training form.
* * *
Abe Hicken, who is now in Sydney with
his charge, Mr. Buck, the English amateur, who
was to have met the N.S.W. champion amateur,
Mr. Seale, is to he tendered a benefit at I mey s
on Saturday night, when it is stated Mr. Buck
Wil} show his quality to a Sydney audience. Mr.
Seale is fast recovering the use of his arm, hut
from the present outlook there is no chance of a
near meeting between the amateurs,
* * *
Rollinson did a foolish thing in challenging
Rolfe to race for the Australian professional
bicycling championship. The match (a three-
event one) came off on Saturday, when Rolfe won
with ridiculous ease the mile and five miles’ races
in the stated times of 3min. 25 l-osec., and 19min.
9 3-ssec. respectively. The distance was done by
the comparative outsider, Wiburd, in under 18min.
No wonder Rollinson is only the “ ex’’-champion
of America. Mr. George, before starting one of
the races, managed to put a bullet through one of
his fingers. It may come with rather a shock to
visitors to the ground to know that the races are
started with ball-cartridge.
* * *
Lees and Jackson’s boxing-match comes
off on 25th September, and last Saturday evening,
at Foley’s rooms, a lot of people thought to get a
“line’’for the event by watching the spar be-
tween Lees and “ Big Jack,” a bulky pupil of
Jackson’s. The latter got all the worst of the en-
counter, but if Lees has no better defence than
that he exhibited on Saturday night, Jackson,
who in his late show with Dooley, seemed to be a
lightning-hitter, should prove victorious—this
even in face of the fact that Farnan, whom Lees
so badly defeated, has twice beaten Jackson. The
audience on Saturday night were not much
edified by the monkey-antics and porker-like
grunts provided for them in the course of Murphy
and Kelly’s “ flash four rounds.”
* * *
About 10 per cent, of the entire Mel-
bourne population turned out to see the football
match between South Melbourne and Geelong.
The match was played on the ground of the
former club, and, with a view to preventing a
general massacre of the Geelong boys in the event
of a South defeat, police were turned on in strong
force. There was no bloodshed, however. Under
the glare of 60,000 eyes, the South team behaved
in a phenomenally dove-like manner, and the play
was “fair” throughout. Hence Geelong won
with ridiculous ease. If these matches between
rival clubs are to maintain their interest, the Vic-
torian Football Association must take action to
prevent the importation of foreign labour by
either party. For this special occasion the Mel-
bourne division were assisted by a leading
South Australian player.
* * *
The best English blood-stock seems to
command the same outrageous prices as ever. At
the Newmarket July sales nine yearlings from the
Yardley Stud fetched an average of 1344 guineas.
“ Swells ” and their money are soon parted.
* * *
Cable complications mercifully interfere from time to
time with the regular transmission of English cricketing
intelligence.
All the little Melbourne punters were on Crossfire for the
Hawkesbury Guineas. A big, big I) issued from a hundred
throats simultaneously when the result came to hand.
As might have been expected, young Mathews was de-
feated in his sculling-match against W. Andereon over the
champion course on Saturday last. As we stated at the
time he defeated Gascoigne, the lad requires a rest.
Encouraged by recent aquatic developments, it seems that
Nelson’s backers have doubled stakes for the match with
Largan Certainly the Englishman is moderate enough, but
neither is the Australian-Dane “ any great shakes. lifty
pounds aside was quite sufficient stake to put up tor such
platers.
Joe Thompson made a queer investment at the last Moonee
Valley meeting. After Mabel Cray had run unplaced in a
held of four for the Selling Race, the wily Joseph claimed the
mare for £145. The winner—who carried 21b. more Wlan
Mabel—was bought in for £35. For ways that are dark and
for tricks that are vain selling races are peculiar.
Should the Rosehill Racing Club make a success of its
“£5OOO Centennial Handicap” notion, the club will have
been ,4 made” by Bennett, just as Caulfield has been made
bv Bond. Which reminds us that for the recent Eclipse
Stakes in England the grand total of subscriptions was
£11,500. What does the A. J.O. propose to do in the so-called
“centennial” year?
Allan G Steel, the celebrated English batsman, was seized
with rheumatism in the side during one of the Australian
matches. The doctors have been “ forbidding Steel to play
cricket any time during the last four years. A leading mem-
b, r of the faculty says that every run the Lancashire man
makes is another nail in his coffin. Yet he keeps driving
them in —four at a time.
Little Gorry, the light-weight jockey, is doing a month’s
suspension for disobedience of the starter’s orders at Moonee
Valley (Vic.) On one or two previous occasions the lad has
been reported and reprimanded, and it is to be hoped that
success is not spoiling him. However, if Gorry occasionally
loses his head at the post he has it well under control at the
finish He won by a neck the race which got him into trouble.
SAMUELS THE ABORIGINAL WINNER OF THE BOTANY
HANDICAP.
A Melbourne paper, speaking of the Eclipse Stakes at
Sandown Park, says that “ Cannon’s hare percentage came
to a thousand pounds." Cannon may have received a £lOOO
present from the owner, hut English jockeys are not, in a
general way, paid percentages on stakes, as in Australia.
But whether it be by percentage or by present, the mannikins
are usually overpaid. Certain journals are constantly striv-
ing to introduce the wretched system of jockey-worship over
here. This is to be deprecated.
The result of the Beach-Qaudaur match will certainly be
foreshadowed by the betting. All that the poor British
critics have to do is to watch the Australian and American
practising on their river, and arrive at a dispassionate
verdict on their respective merits. There will be no national
feeling to influence the market. The prestige of Beach will
go for something, but—granted a square race and no mis-
haps—the favourite will assuredly win. Oarsmen training
on the Thames have to do their work under the eyes ot touts
by the thousand.
AT SANDY CROSSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE, below the river’s elbow, where the faint
and grass-grown track
Winds across the bloodwood level, stands the
charred and lonely wrack—
Blackened' uprights mid the tall grass, as a gibbet
grim and sere,
Loom above the verdure’s tangle in the sunset’s
paling glare ;
Yonder, where the white ant buildeth and the
sapling grove is dense,
Past the ruined stockyard’s sliprail by the crumb-
ling dog-leg fence,
Shrouded by the wildvine creepers, in the gum
tree’s scented shade,
Levelled by the many rainfalls, many bushmen’s
beds are made.
Swift the filing years have flitted o’er the stage of
hoary Time,
Since the house of “Sandy Crossing” flourished
in its baleful prime ;
Ere the fitful tide of traffic, with its changeful
ebb and flow,
Left it bare and custom-stranded seven fleeting
years ago.
Now the prowling fearsome dingo speaks its
monody of woo,
Or the mopchawk’s ghostly hooting when the
moon is very low —
Like to sprites of evil omen o’er the forest harpy’s
lair —
For the blood of many victims ever cries for ven-
geance here.
Here, the half-demented shepherd perished in his
maudlin craze —
Here, the blatant horsey shearer saw his final
drinking days—
Here, the stalwart strong-lunged teamster passed
his spirit-reeking breath—
Here, “Old Bill,” the hurdle-maker, died the
“ horrors” fiery death —
“Pat the Mailman’s” whitened relics here have
found a lasting bed—
Many a nameless wearied traveller resteth here
his fevered head—
But amongst the shanty’s victims fell mortality
may claim
One who died as dies a hero, though we never
knew his name.
But two letters rudely carven on the gum-tree at
his head
By the hand of silent friendship as we scoopedhis
sandy bed!
From the eyes unused to weeping fell the big un-
bidden tear,
As we lowered him in his blanket from the rustic
sapling bier.
Only known as “ German Charley,” stalwart,
comely, in his prime ;
Only known his native land was somewhere by
the fruitful Rhine,
Only heard his Swabian accents wrestling with
our English tongue,
As he shouted, “I will go, boys!’’and into the
current sprung —
How with bated breath we watched him breast
the rushing river’s strength ;
One short minute seeming drawn out to an hour’s
tedious length—
Caught within the swirling eddies, struggling in
the flood-wrecks’ toils,
Dashed against the polished boulders where the
racing water boils;
By the whirling mudded waters like a bubble
plaything flung
To the almost submerged tea-tree where the drown-
ing woman clung—
How our ringing plaudits nerved him in his hamp-
ered backward fight
Ere the rapid rushing river took him downward
in its might.
I Yet ’twas only for a woman, she a pioneer oj
Shame —
Reft of all her sex’s glories, nothing left her hut
the name—
Outcast of the Seaside Oity, tracking up the ven-
turous band
Drawn by Fortune’s tinselled glister to the golden
Northern Land;
But he only saw her clinging to the tea-tree’s
fragile limb,
Only heard her shrieks appealing and it mattered
not to him
Whether tawdry Vice’s helot, vestal maid, or
model wife —
’Twas to save a drowning woman, and he gave his
gallant life.
Ah ! the ruck of fortune-seekers pressing onward
day by day,
Think not of their fallen brothers’ lonely graves
beside the way;
Selfish progress ever motive as the seasons-march-
ing year,
Rushes forward little recking of its martyrs lying
here :
Here is one for whom some maiden, sick with hope
deferred, may pine
In some vine-surrounded cottage by the fruitful
river Rhine ;
Rest thee, nameless gallant spirit, in thy quiet
sandy grave,
Be thy memory, aye, enshrined with the great
forgotten brave !
Here we stood in silent sorrow, as we laid our
comrade down ;
Five were youthful, lusty fellows, one was bearded,
tall, and brown,
Strong in hope —the digger’s lodestar—heedless of
the weary miles,
Fealty chasing Fortune’s footsteps for her golden
syren smiles.
One lies on a virgin sand-ridge, by the Mitchell’s
spacious flood ;
Two have gone, their lives the payment for the
slaughtered natives’ blood ;
Gone are two, by thirst and fever of the deathly
tropic zone —
Here am I, the drifting remnant, standing by this
grave —alone.
J.M.
GLOOM
“I knew Lydia when she was a good girl.” “Then you
must be older than I thought.”
Beautiful French joke. A fair danseuse is petting an old
bald-headed man. “You are an old monster 1 Yesterday I
counted 46 hairs in your head; to-day I find but 38. Whom
have you been giving your hair to?”
In a railway carriage Husband: “Are you quite com
fortable?” Wife Yes, dear." “You don’t feel any jolt
ing?” “No, darling.” “You don’t find any draught on
that side, do you?” “No, love.” “Then, let us change
places.”
They are in the full of their honeymoon. “Will you love
me for ever?” “Dearest one, I will!” “As long as we
live ?” “ Yes, love, and longer.” “ And beyond the grave? ’’
“ Yes, in heaven or in— -(aside) No, no, I’ve promised that
to my first wife.”
He was a shoddy millionaire, just retired from the trade,
and he was showing Captain Evergreen over his new mansion,
and they came to the back thereof. “ That is the trades-
man’s entrance,” said he. “Ah,” rejoined the gallant one,
private door for yourself to go in and out on the sly. Very
good notion.”
What is ironically termed a church
“ living ” fell vacant recently in Henniker Heaton’s
constituency, Canterbury (Eng.), and there were
were more than 30 applications for the billet,
though the salary was only 17s. 3d. a week. This
seems a very emaciated kind of a living, but per-
haps victuals are cheap thereabouts.
At Wellington (N.Z.) one Agnew and his
wife have been standing outside the Parliament
House all the session. They were supposed to be
looking for an honest man, but when the male
individual tried to buy a revolver and remarked
he was “ going to shoot an infernal liar” he was
run in on a charge of threatening the Premier.
Another “mysterious” death in Sydney
has resulted in a verdict of manslaughter being
returned by the coroner’s jury against a Woolloo-
mooloo hotel-keeper. Hardly a week now passes
without some case arising in which a pub-
lican loads a depraved customer up to the chin
with fire-water and then “slings” him out to
fracture his skull on the flinty pavement. “ Died
from chucking out ” would make an appropriate
epitaph on many a toper’s tombstone.
Another good fellow gone from among us
to the eternal silences. J. J. M. Wright, of
Queanbeyan, a young and robust man, and
just the last whom one would expect to die.
He was followed to the tomb by an immense
concourse of people on Thursday week. Only 35,
a blameless J.P., a hearty, open soul, beloved by
everybody, he should have died hereafter. If
death wanted Js.P. we know of whole squadrons
of ’em whose removal would adorn society and
leave no aching hiatus here below. Poor Johnny
Wright ! We can only say sadly Vale in
etemuvi, for we are afraid our final address will
be different from his. If he is judged by the
Great Bench as he judged others on the few occa-
sions when he could be induced to grace the local
one, all will be well with him.
From the breezy region of Williamstown
(Melb.) comes a queer story of life and death. An
invalid gentleman fell into a state of coma, and
inadvertently impressed his friends and relatives
with the notion that he was no more. As is usual
under such circumstances (in well-regulated fami-
lies), the undertaker was called upon to measure
deceased for a wooden suit. He came, did the
undertaker, but when he arrived the “subject”
had suffered a revival and was taking his medi-
cine as before. Showing a patience under adver-
sity which cannot be too highly commended, the
undertaker meekly suggested that he wa ; s always
on the job, and would be happy to execute “the
order” when it really became necessary. The
innocent hero of this story has forwarded parti-
culars to the Press. He thinks that the under-
taker’s conduct showed bad taste. The latter
returns the accusation, and the trade is with him
to a man. Their motto is “ Die, and let live.”
For one of these half-and-half corpses, who doesn’t
know his own mind, they have nothing but con-
tempt.
Laying the foundation-stone of the new
Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne, was hardly the cere-
mony which might have been expected. The
proceedings lacked “tone” and majesty. The
Governor and Lady Loch were not in the show,
and “society” turned up its classic nose and held
aloof. However, as the contractor “ stood Sam
for a heavy luncheon, hired an extensive assort*
ment of flags, and provided a silver trowel, he had
a perfect right to choose his own troweller. He
showed business-tact in selecting the Mayoress,
Mrs. Stewart, to “well and truly” lay the im-
portant stone. Mayors have a big say in the
granting of fat contracts. Governors haven’t.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal— I “The Mikado" .. n 14
Ijew Opera House—“ The King of Iron " "
Gaiety Theatre— “Truth ”
Alhambra Musio Hall—MiiihLrelsy ” "
Academy op Music-Federal Minstrels
Royal Standard Theatre—“ It's Never too Late ” ”
to Mend
To an audience that was not an absolute
crusher upstairs, but about as full as they make
em below, the Holloway Company opened at
Sydney Opera House on Saturday night. “The
King of Iron,” “ an entirely original drama in five
acts ” (we quote from the bill), constituted the
business, and was received with perhaps a little
more acclamatory enthusiasm than its merits
required. “ The Ring of Iron ” is tragedy, comedy,
farce, burlesque, and pantomime, by turns —a
melange which enables every patron of the drama
to be delighted with that part of the art which he
oves best. The first act, wherein some 20 diggers
force a guileless maiden to choose a husband from
among them, is redolent rather of comic opera,
and would be helped along considerably by some
songs and choruses, and so forth. This act is un-
doubtedly the weakest, and if it is patiently
endured, there is no more heroism involved in sit-
ting out the rest, for the remaining scenes are
strengthened with plenty of clever incident and
brightened with a modicum of humorous action
and dialogue—not too humorous, you know, but
just humorous enough.
* * *
We were not largely impressed with Mr.
W. J. Holloway’s Dr. Meredith. Dr. M. is a man
whose mission seems to be the euchreing of
vice by playing two bowers and an ace—
always in waiting up his sleeve—against two
nines and a ten held by the man of sin who is
plotting against the good and virtuous. But Mr.
Holloway, although coming down with the force
of a trip-hammer every time, and making the
most of his strong lines, is somewhat too stately
and stiff in his attitude and action for any but the
pittites ; they are with him from the word “go ”
and the way they adjure him, when opposed by
the human vice emporium to “give him Bondi,”
is indicative of strong and sincere <appreciation.
Miss Essie Jenyns plays a part demanding con-
tinued effort, witlia naturalness which, neverreach-
ing the sublime, yet rarely sinks to bare medio-
crity. Mr. A. Norman does the heavy villain
business with abandon, which, being of course as-
sumed, is simply wonderful. He was disappoint-
ing in that scene wherein he learns his accession to
a baronetcy ; this is possibly because he is in pri-
vate life unused to such intelligence. Charles
Holloway and Harry Hodson are up to sample
save when they are supposed to be drunk, but in
this they are as amateurish as Lyne and Clarke
would be in a prize-fight. Dr. Grant, of the Mar-
wood Lunatic Asylum, has a voice like a fret-saw,
but is not otherwise objectionable. Miss Alice
Deorwyn in the first act plays an impossible part
in a way that falls short of the extortionate de-
mands of the playwright, but is all there in sub-
sequent scenes ; and Miss Kate Arden, seemingly
built for the role, deserves much kudos- for her
vigorously natural performance as Nurse Bland.
Of the others more anon.
## # #
In putting on “Never to Late to Mend ”
at the Royal Standard, Mr. Dampier appeals only
to popular support. Any piece with convicts in
it will never be appreciated by the Sydney aris-
tocracy. The realistic scenic effects are a pro-
minent feature of this play ; they are of a “novel
and striking character,” as the bill with wholly
unnecessary capitals eloquently remarks. They
are especially novel in the daybreak scene, where
the full ruddy glow of sunlight is first turned on
followed by the pink blushes of dawn, which in
turn give place to the violet and purple of day-
break, after which the sunlight breaks in again
and various native birds awake their chorus Of
the birds the kookaburra is a conspicuous and
abject failure, and it is equally a reproach and a
compliment to the company to say that there is
not a real jackass among them. We were not
altogether satisfied with the business of the gold-
field’s scene. The diggers suddenly wake up im-
mediately resolve to wash an empty dish of dirt in
the waterfall, and half-an-ounce of gold is forth-
with produced as the result. Then, after kicking
Crawley, they turn in, leaving the prospect lying
loose around. The dish is afterwards found by
Robinson and Fielding, who have to put it again
under the pump before they can find a solitary
speck. And the £7OOO nugget is a very poor
affair—we could knock a better one out of any
kerbstone in two hours, and then not work any
Taken all round, the acting is well up to the
standard of this company, and the piece will
doubtless continue to draw well.
## # #
“Truth,” at Sydney Gaiety, is a woeful
disappointment to those who have been hungering
and thirsting after veracity. It may be that it is
not the genuine article, or possibly it is so long
since we last met with accuracy in any shape that
we are unable to recognise the real, hard-baked
gospel when we see it, but we would really prefer
!! e ®- Next time we are invited to witness
I ruth we mean to tell one ourselves and say
that our half-brother’s father by marriage is very
Ui > and that, consequently, we can’t go The
whole comedy—like almost everyone we have
seen lately-depends on a hideously monotonous
mother-m-law the relict of a yawning spectre
uith a moveable wooden leg, and this lady tells
how she used to confiscate that timbertoe every
night at 10 o’clock and weeps because all
men have not at least oi*e eucalyptus
limb by which they can be kept under con-
trol. The rest of the story depends solely
on four sleepy-eyed tottering wretches who tell
a whole string of stupid mendacity to a party of
ladies, one uncertain and transitory dude-mule
who wilts like a blighted potato-top at the sight
of his crusher-in-law, and a lady who is weak on
mythology, and who tells her husband that the
sword of Damwhatsisname ”is hanging over his
head. Ihe four men are mild and washy rakes when
abroad and praying humbugs when at home. They
have been in London on a charitable mission which
they executed by attending a fancy-dress ball—
one as a Celt in very short kilts, the second as
that spectral form in three old hats that went
a-kissing of Kafoozelum, and the other two clothed
in some unspecified sinful garb. They arrive
home gaping miserably, and the would-be Celt
falls asleep standing while embracing his
wife with his mouth open (mixed rather, but it
doesn t matter). Of course they are found out by
the mother-in-law, and from the recesses of her
hollow and mysterious jaw issue sounds of wail-
ing like the yells of a banshee amid the halls of
( lie gloomy past. But at this crisis a sad-looking,
prematurely-young individual unfurls a large
falsehood, and the four sinners take shelter be-
neath this gingham of mendacity. Then they
take the ladies apart and tell four transparent
whoppers ’ which make the darlings jump off
their eight little feet in joy, while the old lady
clumps round like an unbelieving elephant, and
makes observations 10 feet long, which double up
the deceitful four, and they fall on the floor in a
dissipated heap. Ultimately there is a climax,
but it is too weak to stand alone, and the mother-
in-law just catches the last train homo. We were
very glad to see her go.
*
Mr. St. Maur, as Alfred Sterry, was at his
very worst. If he gets any worse still we will
mention the fact. Mr. Alfred Maltby took the
part of Sir Partridge Compton, Miss Powys ap-
peared as Mrs. Sterry, Miss Nelly Mortyne as
Lady Compton, and Miss Agnes Thomas as Mrs.
Macnamara, and this quartette saved the piece
from utter ruin. Sir Partridge, especially, is the
todeeming feature of this mother-ridden atrocit’
but he tells jovial, gouty lies all through, whi'
his companions attempt in the end to tell th
truth, and collapse. Miss Annie Taylor took he
customary part of the rocky parent, and we won
he inclined to characterise her performance
very good were it not that we are suffering from
female on the brain and are weary of the ver
name of mother-in-law.
## # #
“•The Mikado ” perpetrated himself wit
considerable success at Sydney Royal on Saturda
night in the presence of our quarrelsome, rec
nosed representative and several thousand others
Since then he has been waving his fantastic Pagan
toe with unabated energy, and every night a larg
audience has gathered to listen to the love story
of Nanki-Poo and his bride. The piece is magni
flcently mounted, the cracked porcelain landscape
in the second act being especially attractive, and
over the whole waves, or is supposed to wave,
shirt dipped in treacle—the imperial standard’ of
Japan. The beginning of Nanki-Poo’s courtship
is, unfortunately, not in the opera, but it may be
presumed he wooed Yum Yum in the customary
Asiatic style—that is to say,
He gave her a pipe with a golden clog,
A box of tea and a poodle dog,
And a painted heart that was all aflame
And bore in blood the lover's name; ’
And she smoked the pipe with the golden clog
And drank the tea and ate the dog,
and dreamt at night of her lover’s physog, and
did everything else that a little toddling Asiatic
girl in love could reasonably be expected to do
But the course of true love is terribly obstructed
by a burly Oriental, dressed in hieroglyphics and
dado mouldings, and all through the opera sundry
shaven-headed spectres ilit round under very try-
ing circumstances in company with a paper-muslin
YUM YUM.
ghost with white legs—
the latter image being
the affected Nanki-Poo
in person. He is haunted
and overshadowed
through life by the
ruins of a warlike
Japanese female whose
front tooth rises up in
dreary hideousness like
a broken column in the
wilderness. This femin-
ine party sports the last
tusk of summer through
half the opera with the
proud consciousness
that her incisor stands
alone in every sense of
the word. Towards the
end, things get so con-
fused that it is difficult
to avoid the impression
that Nanki-Poo has
been changed in the
wash, and we narrowly
miss the exciting spec-
tacle of three con-
spirators one of them
an archbishop—being
boiled alive. We never saw anybody boiled vet’
and we won d especially like to watch the arch-
bishop frizzling, but he knocks his head on the
floor several times, and a gaudy executioner mar
both get r o e ffi amS ° f thG f6malc ’ after which they
* * *
The singing and acting in “ The Mikado ”
are both superb. Misses Stewart, Sshorne and
Forde, as the three sisters, Yum- Yum PitH
and Peep-80, look pSttv
Alice Barnett takes the part of that decayed
Japanese female Katisha, who nresent7 « d
picture desolation in a W sCTreU S
COUH pass as an allegorical represcntoS’n
Tadmor m the wilderness, with the last pillar of a
heathen temple rising out of her jaw. Mr. Den-
bigh Newton, as the Mikado, wears an emblem of
®* e .™ lfc y on hls ro >' al head, and takes a large share
of the honours, and in his duet with Katisha both
y as a y ellow Potentate and the
shattei ed remains of a fine woman well can be. Mr
Vernon appears as the Lord High Executioner, Mr.'
nfTmf r aS P ° oh ( Bah ’ the Lord Hi &h remainder
of the Government, and Mr. Woodfield as Nanki-
Poo, a prince who has sunk to the level of a second
trombone and lives by his windpipe. These
f“ tlc ™ n ? et safely through a series of Oriental
difhculties in excellent style, being backed up in
an emergency by Pish Tush (Mr. Grundy); a
a . ) I *y aristocrat, with the brilliant energy of a
red-herring A word of praise is also due to the
excellent chorus, and a crowd of tierce-looking
wrecks armed with cornice-poles, gilt chair
legs, and a green umbrella, make up the retinue
of the great Mikado. e
RAYNOR BROTHERS.
The Federal Minstrels at Sydney Academy
have commenced a season of African opera which
ought to add considerably to their popularity. We
arrived rather late at this haunt of frenzied gaiety
and consequently lost the first half of “ Phaino
Capitis,” being just in time to see Jubilee Young
looming from the canvas like the shadow of a
great alderman in a thirsty land. This was suc-
iceeded by the ever-popular Raynor Brothers in
their entertainment, which is a weird mixture of
music, comedy, bellows, tin-whistle, and general
excitement. “ Who’s got the Pocket-book ” was a
nigger sketch of the usual kind, and after seeing it
we really don’t care who has got the flabby leathern
receptacle in question. Harry Carroll, the double-
voiced vocalist, was a success, especially compared
with manydouble-chinned vocalists we have known
and the performance' ended with the Raynors’
burlesque Soudanese opera, “Lucrezia Borgia.”
Lucrezia, we may mention, was born of poor but
skinny parents, and took to benevolence in early
life. She married Alfonso, a proud and bloated
duke, and used to make him trot round with
tracts and soup to the old women of the neigh-
bourhood, but at last she was cut off in the
flower of her youth and died covered with piety
and spots—the former being inherent, while the
latter were acquired from a nettlerash baby whom
she nursed under circumstances of peculiar
atrocity. Her last words were breathed in the
sar of her fond husband—she asked that haughty
and heart-broken aristocrat if his mother knew he
was out.
## # #
The triumvirate are feeling the Melbourn
lulse to see if the patient will stand a mild dos
>f the “legitimate.” Titheradge’s Hamlet drew
rood houses last week, and on Friday Mr. G R
reland took a ben. in “Othello.” The public i
.ttending this new treatment very well up to the
iresent, but we would counsel care and caution,
ly the way, there was a call for “ author” when
he curtain fell on “ Othello.” No response, how
ver. The divine William was not in the house.
«## # #
The Great Pink Pearl ” was not an
verwhelming success at Melbourne Bijou, and
iis week Tim is the bill. The new arrivals
lr. Alleyne and Miss Florence Wade are
haperoning “Tim.” Phil. Day assists.
Mr. J. Dewhurst, the massive tragedian, so well-known in
BheaeldTheat W reßoyaL ate appearin « in “Othello,” at
Miss Fortescue (Gumboil's old friend) opens her N Y
season with Broken Ties”—in which she should be quite a
if Damages ” She sho lld follow U P this Piece with “ Thump-
I At N.Q. towns “The Private Secretary” has been showing
to splendid houses. Having “ spoiled the Egyptians ”of the
Northern colony, the company goes South, openin'' at Mel
bourne Bijou on the 23rd September. P lg at mel '
Hugo s Buffalo Minstrels are intensifying the reigning de-
pression of trade in Tasmania by raking in a lot of the"cur
a 6l i C tr o lslan( l- Launceston was plundered for a week
and Hobart is now undergoing similar treatment. ’
The new Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, will open on
October 1 with Jim, the Penman”—builders and other ar
rangements permitting. Judging from present an™*!,.™
the house will be a bit dampTn tL Ist mon?h 6
tw r ivr sdl ?. und Fir lP G Garryowen”), of Melbourne claims
that Mr. George Darrell’s new play, “ The Soggarth ” is
merely an adaptation of his (Mr. Finn's) story, “ The Priest's
kfdeed. PUbhahed 18 months Mr. Finn is very angry
The most funnily-imaginative specimens of art seen in
Australia for a long while are certain florally-decorated nor
SA'whj “counterfeit presentments 0 " “of The
windows of Sydney Hollowa r- in the shop-
Many thousand will regret to hear of tho n, r,
Eessor G. A Statham, so fong one of the Sus members o°f
;he Lynch Family of Bellringers. On trip North he
lontracted a cold-it’s the old story, ‘ 1 olWTeold "neglect
ieath. He has been buried at Rookwoo t Pw,',jfci, b gl t ’
Nilsson has papered the walls of the dhOmTroom in her
louse in Madrid with the hotel bills collected during her
'anous tours through the world, while her bed-chamber is
lecorated with leaves of music from all the operas in which
he has warbled. The records of Song and Supper h
i too £ a complimentary benefit at Sydney
icademy on Monday afternoon, appearing for the occasion
a the character of Captain Gingah in “ Our Girls.” Rayno?
brothers and most of the artists attached to the Federal
fmstrels troupe took part in the programme, as did also
lesdames Bessie Vivian, Edwards, and Hill. 1
r.f>n!if,off.?K Kl n, Sundas ! ovenin K concert at Sydney Gaiety
< l UCted Jy Messrs. Samuells and Knight Aston, proved
£f?L B !i Ccess '- .“'creasing popularity of these entertaii
w n ,, P c , a, , U3 'u g a httle annoyance in pray-ographicalcircles
t « y the opposition party have only eternal punish
to“ take°" aS a counter ' attra< ' tioi i. a od it does not seen
w!!is. a , n<l Lad y O 9 ari . n Bton attended the Gaiety Theatre on
Wednesday, the Bth mgt. Carmen” was produced. Th
xi/n numerous and fashionable” audience rolled up
When the institution of Governor is abolished, we fancy
theatrical managers will have to seeure the service of a Roya
0,1?., 9°. do . the drawing” for them. The insertion of an
ad. in this journal to that effect would get some hundred
thousand applications in a few hours. The young mail from
no\f arm an< ,rcdler Henry are not in very good billets just
Farley's Opera Company closed their season at Sydney
on Friday last, ‘ Fatinitza” occupying the boards.
hS ?at t 10 T of , the piece was supplied by Izzet Pasha, the
? d ,tH ty f Turk ’. who a PPeared in a respectable Sunday
suit, with a fez on top to add a glamour of Oriental magni-
ficence to the shirt-front. We are inclined to think a sober
swallow-tail would make a sensation when waving at tho
head of a, Moslem squadron on the Danube, and would like
to pro°ihesy Ma k° met lmt 011 b ’ s dress ‘ Buit when lie was going
The latest about our friend Genevieve Ward is that at tho
beginning of August she took part at Wimbledon, England.
Sfflß Aipivv° r i a Jn ays L g n t up by aml for tho glorification
of Lady Archibald Campbell, an amateur who is “ mashed”
on the stage, and is described as “ a tallish woman, thin and
spare, with bony wrists and long, nervouß hands, who has ap-
parently passed the meridian of her first youth, and is as an
actress stilty, stiff, and angular.” Genevieve, one paper says
simply wiped poor Lady Archibald out, dominated her, and
of Queen Eleanor ” 6 Utterly by her ma « uifi °ent performance
There is much more trouble at the Melbourne Opera
House. Miss Emehe Melville and Verdi struck work last
week (for reasons not altogether uneonnected with finance)
and kaleidoscopic changes in the cast of “ Les Cloches do
Corneville resulted. Within the space of three nights ap-
peared two Germaines, two Bailies, two Gobos, and three
Markees. All this was intensely interesting to the gentle-
men who do the paragraphs for the morning papers, but.
from an artistic point of view, these outbreaks of dissension
are quite distressing. On tho night of the strike Verdi was
!!', f , ront > . calm y gazing at the ruin he had wrought
Madame Angot, with Miss Ivanova as Clairette, is this
week s stop-gap. ’
Sara Bernhardt is reported to be cooling her tragic heels
in gaol at Rio. She accused Mdle. Noirmont, a member of
her compan y , of stealing, and a row ensuing, Sara, aided by
half-a-dozen friends, dragged the girl through the streets to
the magistrate. Sara wanted the obnoxious young lady put
to hard labour, in irons, or something of the kind, but the
Brazilian beak only glared at her and asked where was the
evidence. Then the Bernhardt lost her Mosiac temper, arid
told him he had not enough brains to fill the billet of a stone
saint in a cathedral, and took her revenge by getting her son
and another gentleman to seize Mdle. Noirmont on the stage,
after the evening s performance, while she administered a
sound thrashing with a horse-whip. Consequently, &c.
BRIEF MENTION.
It is wired that Rev. Dr. Jefferis “has
been addressing the Melbourne young men,” We
suppose this is a misprint for “ old women.”
James Wight, a Baptist-chapel caretaker,
of Adelaide, has hanged himself. He felt lone-
some, all the saints of the congregation having
gone to gaol.
At Papekura (N.Z.), it has been raining
sulphur. This would seem to show that the good
old-fashioned perdition is above—not below, as
formerly supposed.
Last week, in Sydney, Kalfe Alberton stole
four packets of soap and seven copies of the S. M.
Herald. She loved cleanliness and godliness not
wisely but too well.
At Onehunga (N.Z.) a cow devoured the
better half of a footballer’s clothing, which had
been deposited on the green sward. Had it been
in Sydney, the footballer would have been taken
home in the Governor’s carriage.
In the S.M. Herald of September 9
Hon. W. J. Lyne is described as the head o
a new Department, to wit, “Minister for Words.’
VV e presume that when Sir Henry becomes King
once more Jawbone Neild will be appointed to this
position.
According to that pious little paper, the
Sydney Express, one should address St. Gm-trude
when one wants to get rid of the fleas on the pre-
mises. Let us hope that the lodging-house keepers
of Sydney will supplicate for the intercession of St.
Gertrude until they actually get corns on their
knees.
Two members of the German Church in
Melbourne excused their interruption of the ser-
vice by alleging that the officiating parson was
immoral. The plea was absurd. If service is to
be interrupted whenever an immoral parson is in
the pulpit, a lot of Sydney churches might as well
shut up altogether. It is always the fascinating
and giddy cleric who is most popular.
“ Is Private Murphy in the ranks ?” asked
General Wellington at Waterloo. “Yes,” was the
reply. “Then let the battle commence,” said the
General. The other day, a delegate at the Sydney
Eight Hours’ Demonstration asked, “ Have you
advertised in The Bulletin ?” “ Yes,” roared
the secretary. “ Then,” said the delegate, as ho
resumed his seat with a seraphic smile, “ let the
business proceed.”
A contemporary reports that at Clunes
(Vic.) a clergyman has adopted the plan of pass-
ing round the plate himself. Occasionally, for the
sake of example, he picks out a battered three-
penny piece and hands it back to the cheerful
giver, saying : “Take it back, sir, and may the
Lord have mercy on your niggardly soul ! ” Most
of the threepenny saints have left that church in
consequence, and only the sixpenny Christians are
left.
An evil spirit is abroad in N.S.W. A
letter appeared in the Sydney D.T. the other day
suggesting that the name of the colony be changed
And now some prudish idiot writes in the Sydney
Echo proposing that “Botany Bay” be changed
to “Barren Bay.” It might be done. Then, if
when “Barren Bay” was mentioned, there was
any doubt about its identity, one could always
explain by saying; “Barren Bay, alias Botany
B&yf you know.” There would be a suggestire-
ness about putting it in that way. It would smack
so sweetly of the “good old times.”
The Newcastle Orangemen are about to
present the “Skedaddled Nun” with a gushing
one-horse address which begins thus : “ Heaven
has given you a mouth.” There is apparently a
certain amount of truth in this, for the lady has
obviously got the mouth. It is generally wide
open, too, and we are glad to learn on such good
authority who gave her the voluble cavity, for we
almost thought at one time that the address
finishes with the words, “Its full measure will
not be known till the great day ’’—but to avoid
misconstruction, we may explain it is not the
mouth that is under discussion this time.
Rev. Dr. Jefferis is just now teaching
damnation to the young men of Melbourne 5
Especially does he warn them against novels and
society papers, the latter being “ poisonous fungi
growing in an undrained field.” That was not
bad, even for Jefferis. In aptitude for similes he
treads close upon the heels of the man who likened
certain pulpit utterances to “ gas rising f rom
a seldom-flushed sewer.” It seems, by the wav
that the dear doctor was “ saved ” at the earlv
age of 18 by a year’s abstention from Action if
he would but abstain from fiction now, Jefferis
might, perchance, save somebody else. Who
knows ?


Pepper
Salt
It may take only nine tailors to make a
man but it also takes a milliner and a good deal
of red paint to make a Judge. The Australian-
born and democratic Justice Williams, of Mel-
bourne, however, objects to the lurid upholstery
which is the symbol of his office, and a week ago
actually suggested that his charge to the jury
would be as effective “if he had these rags off as
if he had them on.” For our own part, we are
inclined to think a good deal depends on what his
Honor wore underneath the “rags. Ihe reel
Draconian nightgown is so long that, for all we
know, the rest of the wardrobe might, on a Mel-
bourne hot-wind day, consist only of a pair o
boots, and we are exceedingly doubtful about the
effect of a charge addressed to an Australian jury
bv a judge attired solely in shoe-leather, fie
might, of course, preside in a bathing-machine so
as to hide his deficiencies, or hear divorce-cases in
CONFIDENCE AT CONDOBOLIN.
THE COONAN (to “the biggest meeting" ever held at Condobolia):-"GENTLEMEN, IN
SPITE OF ALL MY ENEMIES SAY, THE JUDGES THINK SO WELL OF ME THAT
THEY HAVE GIVEN ME SIX MONTHS’ HOLIDAY, THOUGH I NEVER ASKED
THEM FOR A MOMENT TO DO IT. AM I OR AM I NOT FIT TO REPRESENT
YOU ? (Chorus :-"You are! You are!! You are!!!")
a shower-bath, but, so far as we know, there is no
law at present in force to provide for such an
emergency. Judge Williams, however, is alto-
gcthou, too darned particular in some respects. He
expelled a juryman for yawning a little while ago,
and fell like an elephant on a sergeant of police
for smiling at a lawyer’s joke. Still, we agree
with him on the subject of legal robes. There are
several N.S.W. judges who would he very small
beans indeed if it were not that they are togged
out in something that looks like the red bottle
from a chemist’s window, and there is hardly one
who could preside dressed only in a horse-cloth
and a pair of hoots and yet keep up the dignity ot
his position.
* * *
“ Gone Coonan ” has made another mess
of it. Had he stopped at Parkes, where he was
well received, he’d have been nearly safe. But as
he went on to Forbes, and was received badly, all
the fat is in the fire. Which reminds us that—
The N.Z* insurance agents are adorning a
tale about a man who resolved to insure his life,
but postponed doing so for a few weeks. Sud-
denly, however, a tree fell upon his uninsured
anatomy, and he went up above. This is another
sad and striking proof that we should never put
off, &c. We once knew of a man who resolved to
buy a new bonnet for his wife, but he delayed
doing so, and in the interval the lady went off
with a nasty Chinaman named Hop Gee. Moral :
He who hesitates is lost.
* * *
An evicted corpse at Ballarat sends a bitter
complaint to the local paper. Her name was—
well, say Jones, and she was about to be interred
alongside her father-in-law, when the mother-in-
law objected, and refused to allow the grave to be
disturbed. The same day, however, another
Jones arranged for having his family vault opened
for burial, and the natural result was that the
dead Mrs. Jones was planted alongside a Jones
who had been no relative of hers while in the
flesh. Then the other Jones sent his corpse along
and “ slung out” the intruder before she had even
time to take root, and left her shivering outside
on a bitterly cold day, with the wind whistling
through the coffin. Then the surviving Jones
tore away to interview his stern parent, but she
was obdurate and refused to have the bones
mixed. At last, however, the widower got a
garnishee order, or a habeas corpus, or something,
jnd thereby overruled the old lady’s objections ;
the funeral took place over again ; and Mrs. Jones
now rests peacefully in that cold and silent
thingamy from which no what’s-his-name returns.
* * *
Cleanliness is next to Hades, or somewhere
thereabouts, in N.S.W. The Bourke Telegraph
has been reduced to sending out an expedition to
prospect round the office, an impression having
arisen that a glue-factory had been started in the
back-yard, and when the exploring party re-
turned and was resuscitated with whisky it re-
ported as follows Opposite the Commercial Bank
two departed cats, scientifically designated felts
gonebung; on a rubbish heap close by throe more
cats, and one goat which had been cut off m the
flower of its youth ; in the adioining lane, ono, two,
three, fragrant cats ; in Richard-street, a porcu-
pine lying stark and stiff with its martial quills
around it, two hens stretched out in the cold
embrace of death, and yet another long-defunct
cat alongside. Many other cognate horrors were
scattered around, and more deceaseds were loom-
ing in the distance, but the search was not carried
further. And yet Bourke is only an ordinary
specimen of a N.S.W. town, and every Sunday,
all over the colony, people pray around the odour
of goat and dog and sanctity to be delivered from
pestilence and famine, &c. What a chance there
would be for a clergyman who really believed in
cleanliness to hang a decaying text by the tail in
front of his pulpit and preach a practical sermon
for once!
Some little trouble has been created in the
Melbourne University Council by the presence of
a sad-looking clay-headed image which has for
some time past been leaning its hard-baked skull
against the wall in that haunt of ancient learning.
It was a well-fed looking object with long stone
whiskers —the man it represents has red whiskers
—and a head which suggested the idea that the
hair had been eaten off by a horse, and it pur-
ported to resemble Sir Samuel Wilson, Knight.
This article was mysteriously forwarded some
time ago hy some then unknown person as a
ready-made grovel by a local artist, and the
Council were afterwards astonished by a request
from the widow of the late Marshall Wood, the
sculptor, for a cheque in payment of same. This,
however, was more than the academic fathers
were inclined to stand, and they rose up as one
mule for the purpose of rejecting the effigy thus
put in upon them. It was unanimously decided
that the stone Samuel should be cast out, and a
message is to be sent to the proprietor of the
spectre to send a wheelbarrow for his Samuel and
cart him away. The resolution is a commendable
one, for there is already too little learning and too
much bust in Australian Universities. But it
seems rather hard when we recollect that the
gentleman who has been thus dumped in a hand-
cart and wheeled away gave £30,000 to build the
Wilson Hall—an addition to the very same estab-
lishment where he cannot now find a spot to lay
his plaster head in peace.
* * *
“ When you have a good thing, stick to it.” The
maxim isn’t so generally followed in the colonies
as it should be, but as a rule the legal profession
sets a good example. A good case, a promising
misunderstanding, or a quarrelsome client, doesn t
often evade the grip of the first man of law who
gets hold of it. This is as it should be, and the
best of it is that they improve as they grow older.
There are the Judges, for instance. Who ever
heard of a judge voluntarily giving up business?
A judge may be old, or sick, or stupid the latter
is common enough—but he needs to be very old
and uncommonly sick before he is stupid enough
to resign his seat on the Bench where he gets a
good deal and frequently does very little. A case in
point is reported from New Zealand. There are two
judges in Wellington, one elderly, deaf, and rather
stupid, the other very sickly and not very young.
One of them, it matters little which, the stupid
one for choice, was trying a libel-case last week,
in which a shady politician sued a newspaper
editor for suggesting that he was a rogue. The
case was interrupted by an earthquake, a bad one
even for Wellington, and the audience left. The
1 aggrieved politician, the high-minded journalist,
the interested audience, cleared out without
notice ; and were followed by the jury, the officers
of the court, and, strange to say, even the lawyers.
One man kept his seat. It was the Judge ! Like
the Roman sentinel at Pompeii, who stood firm at
his post, amidst the crash of the elements; so
amidst the collapse of chairs and tables m his
court, the New Zealand Judge held on. Re
mightn’t be clever, but it would take more than
an earthquake to dislodge him. He knew a good
thing when he had it.
* * *
A Mudgee paper has the following :
‘ Master W. Bishop, junr., has his autograph on
all the new issue of the Bank of N.S.W. notes.
Advance! Young Mudgee.” For our own part
we don’t see what the young .man with the episco-
pal name has got to advance about. We have
had our own name on a bill at three months with
Ispectable householders
one occasion, but we
i same.
*
.C., while on the cre-
said :—“ Where would
1 England feels in the
sanctuary, Westminster
) practice to burn the
1 to know, or care, Pid.
feelings of “veneration
is mind as he “ stood on
tie remains of warriors,
id statesmen. “ Sacred
» is “ holy ground,” but,
ation Piddington might
lat, in addition to war-
,notified Abbey also con-
iine terrible scoundrels
t the very door of the
story, or Spiritual Court,
r Oldfield, the actress,
iry states, “ lived with
3 friend of Marlborough
and Godolpliin,” and who, being asked one day by
Queen Caroline if Brigadier Churchill and herself
were married, replied, “Madame, the general
keeps his own secrets.” Oldfield is buried near
that model of virtue, Master Congreve, and that
angelie creature, Mr. Secretary Graggs. Ihe
presence of this godly trio near the Consistory in-
spired some one well acquainted with their giddi-
ness to pencil on Oldfield’s tomb the neat but un-
grammatical lines—
“ If penance in the Bishop’s Court be feared,
Congreve and Craggs and Oldfield will be scared
To find that on the Resurrection Day
They’ve all so near the Consistory lay."
How the genuine saints must squirm, when they
receive their N.S.W. Hansard and read that the
wonderful sanctity of a mondainc's shrine is able
to strike feelings of “ veneration and awe” into a
N.S.W. Legislative Councillor!
* * *
On one of the steamers trading from Syd-
ney to Cooktown is a French stewardess with an
abnormally keen sense of humour. Some time
ago, when starting for the North, she had a laige
number of lady passengers, among whom was a
portly Jewess who had an infallible cure for sea-
sickness. This cure consisted of a mustard-
I plaster partly mixed with fiour and placed care-
fully over the “ binjie” (aboriginal word, which,
being translated, means the place into which the
blackfellow stokes the roast .possum). The
daughter of Judah communicated this brilliant
idea to all the other lady passengers, and very soon
the stewardess was surrounded by a crowd of
eager females clamouring wildly for mustard-
plasters of all shapes and sizes. The Gallic
stewardess at once made an estimate of the super-
ficial area to be thus carpeted with mustard, and
concluded that nothing less than a 141 b. tin would
satisfy the requirements of the epidemic started
by the daughter of Israel. So she emptied 111 b.
of mustard into a bucket and mixed it to the
proper consistency. The flour was omitted for
fear of running the steamer short of that useful
article of diet. All being in readiness, the
stewardess went round and took a mental outline
of the dimension of the various plaster-reposi-
tories. There were all sizes, from the tiny little
“ chest ” that took a neat little plaster spread on
the back of an envelope, up to the ample expanse
of the smiling matron weighing a couple of hun-
dredweight, who required one spread over the
surface of a pillowslip. There was amongst
Mademoiselle’s patients a German woman who
could have carried off the gates of Gaza. Ihe
stewardess approached this Teutonic syren with
what looked like a square yard of canvas covered
with yellow paint. “ Och, mein gott, vat vas
dis ?” The stewardess smiled and laid it on its
appointed place, giving one or two trowel-like
slaps to smooth out the surface. The last plaster
was deposited, and each and all waited expec-
tantly for the balmy sleep and sweet repose that
was to bring lovely dreams and banish mal-de-mer
to the limbo of oblivion. Never before was there
such an odour of mustard in any ladies’
cabin. Even the rats refused to enter dur-
ing that eventful night. The sounds that pro-
ceeded from that cabin have never been heard
before outside of the domain of lost spirits. In
the morning the floor was paved with exhausted
mustard-plasters, some dropped gently from the
gloomy occupants of top berths and others dashed
with wild pitiless rage into any part of the cabin.
The ladies all addressed the stewardess simul-
taneously, but over the rest rose the Teutonic
voice, “ Oh, by ze Heaven, I never tinks I vas
coom alive again to-day ! ” And they all prayed
for only just strength enough to get up and batho
tlieir arms to the elbows in the blood of the
Jewess. “ I tinks I vas feel more petter if I coot
eat van smhall piece of dis Shewish voomans
mit some mooshtard !” And this was the senti-
ment of all embodied in the unsophisticated lan-
guage of the daughter of Germania. And what
intensified their pitiless ferocity was the fact that
A SUGGESTION.
“A cave has been discovered in Brazil which so smothers the human voice that a
yell is not audible at a distance of one foot.” — Daily Paper.
they were all about ten times sicker than they had
ever been before. And for two days following,
few females were seen on the deck of that steamer,
and even those walked round gently with an air
of settled melancholy and sighed with the earnest
sorrow peculiar to people who have abandoned all
hope in this world.
If we were little Coonan,
And little Coonan we,
And we were lightly cast adrift
Just for our little selves to shift,
We thinks we’d play our tune on
Quite another key.
If we were little Coonan,
And little Coonan we.
If we were an attorney,
And slightly run to seed,
And, for running up expenses,
In patibulo suspensus,
We’d take a little journey—
Methinks that’s what we’d need,
If we were an attorney
And slightly run to seed.
We’d let the row blow over —
Six months is not too long—
’Twould soon he all forgotten,
And as all the world is rotten,
While we would be a rover
Some other would go wrong,
And let our row blow over —
Six months is not too long.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
[somebody is writing a novel for Mrs.
lgtry.
Dhe Pall Mall Gazette thinks that, with
e and attention, Sir Samuel Wilson, K.C.M.G.,
y perhaps develope in time into a good party
;k. Perhaps he may—in time, or, if time is not
g enough for the job, he may do it in eternity.
rhady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner
), announces that “ any more drunken women
ling at his office after 11 p.m. will be cut into
tn and eggs.” We presume from this that
ady now attends to drunken female clients from
ill 10.30 only.
“The Rev. G. Austin has declined
accept the bishopric of Melbourne.” It
perhaps, just as well that the bishopric
Melbourne was not accepted by the very
utious Rev. G. Austin. A priest who as-
mes so many airs very rarely has many graces.
Henniker Heaton on Gladstone: —“We
e called together by a crisis gratuitously in-
cted upon the country by a scheming statesman
[lowed only by the ragged remnant of a mu tin-
ls party.” The Cooma Express wisely observes
at Henniker’s wife has money enough to buy
m a better speech than this, and we ourselves
e inclined to think she might stand another
1 (pence to keep him from making an ass of him-
:lf.
It is reported that Hinder, the Tumbar-
mba (N.S.W.) bank-manager, is doing his little
mtence jovially “on his head.” He has no work
> do, no prison-clothes or prison-fare, he has a
imfortable apartment, and gets his meals sent in,
nd has generally a “high old time.” Hinder
lot a man dead —that was all—and got a sentence
fl 2 months. Only a few weeks ago a baker got
0 years for embezzling a few shillings. Better be
banker than a baker.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has entered
is 58th year. “We couple with our congratula-
ions,” says a brutal English paper, “ a sincere hope
hat this frontal gem in the crown of the Church
vill be long spared to entertain Society at dinner
larties and garden fetes , and that his sphere of
isefulness in saving the souls of the aristocracy
iver dessert or while discussing a plate of straw-
terries and cream may be constantly enlarged
luring the closing years of his life.”
A petition is going round in S.A. for the
•elease of A. M. Wilson, the Commercial Bank
iwindler, and the movement is getting very ex-
tensive support in clerical circles. Wilson, during
lis career as a financial delusion, used to perspire
texts from every sacred pore, and was a credit to
die church and a fraudulent debit to everything
md everybody else, but on the strength of the
scripture which used to exude all over his anointed
hide, the Rev. Slobkins and Co. are backing him
up to the best of their ability.
Sir James Martin, speaking at Consul Grif-
fin’s banquet, described Jefferson as/ a tremendous
Radical, a man who when he was appointed Presi-
dent rode up alone and tied his horse to a post.
We would like to know what Sir James is
grumbling at. Did he expect to see the horse tie
Jefferson to the post, or did he think the post
should have fastened the horse to a stump, or did
he imagine that the President ought to have ridden
into church instead and tied his horse to the
parson 2 Some men are never satisfied.
Lord Salisbury, the present British Pre-
mier, is in a very feeble state of health. He has
become much more corpulent of late, and the
chronic bow in his back, which is accentuated at
the neck, has increased, while he finds consider-
able difficulty in walking up even the most gentle
ascent.” This we take to be the Tory way of say-
ing that Salisbury has become.morejistiff-neckea


than ever, and that he is funking at the steep
pinch ahead. Gladstone, on the other hand, is
very much alive and means to kick hard.
More Arctic exploration. Colonel Gilder,
an American explorer, is preparing a new expedi-
tion to reach the Pole on foot. He reckons that a
frost-bitten scientific procession, after four years’
clumping through snow and frost, establishing
depots as they go, may reach the Pole at las
Colonel Gilder, by-the-bye, did not start so soon
he intended, because he is in gaol. The on
woman he ever loved declared he should not
away to have his scalp raked off by a walrus i:
she could help it, and she ran the gallant officer
on a charge of stealing a thousand dollars 1
means to go, however, when he gets out.
From a London paper : —“ The Prince o:
Wales will deal a heavy blow at his popularity
he does not promptly quash the testimonial schem
in connection with the ‘ Colonies.’ It is a mo
strous idea, and its inception reflects no cred
upon anybody, except it be in the direction
marking the person as an arch-toady. The Sou
Kensington shows and their developments bid fa
to culminate by-and-bye in a public scandal, an
the Heir Apparent will indeed be in a highl
ridiculous position then, if he finds himself th
possessor of a huge present, given him in recogn:
tion of his valuable services in connection wi
that self-same scandal.
Robert Bernard Dunne was the name o:
the leading “ masher” at Toowoomba (Q), and 1
was shining at a ball one recent evening like
metal teapot on the hob when a detective arrestee
him for getting money under false pretences, ai
offered him a free passage to Brisbane. Most me
would have wilted like a blighted cucumb
under such a shock, but Dunne simply asked th
officer not to “blow the gaff,” and then intr
ducod him all round as a very dear friend wit
whom he had to go to the capital at once o
urgent business. A great blanket of gloom a
once fell on the company, and a dozen ladies wen
to the station to see their best masher off. The
wept a good deal, too, but they wept still mor
when they learnt afterwards where he had goi
to, and that he wasn’t coming back.
The Jew who, the other day, caused such
row in Sydney Synagogue by saying in effect thai
it would be a satire on religion for usurers to hoi
religious offices, has a level head. In every com
munity the greatest enemies of the Jewish rac
are the usurers, who are without conscience anc
without remorse. The disgraceful revelation
lately made in Melbourne, where it was show
that Hermann, the President of a Hebrew con
gregation, had, in conjunction with the graspin
Waxman, been charging young Petty 1100 po
cent, interest on large sums, should have burn
like nitric acid into the Jewish skin. The brai
of the average Jew is too good to be prostitute
to the filthy purposes of usury. It was the so
called Christian system which in times gone b
forced the Jew to get his living by lending mone
at usurious rates; but the necessity for sue
things has departed, and we hope that the da
may yet come when the Jewish community wi
ostracise the Hebrew father who devotes his so
to the vile purposes of a loan office.
A Melbourne firm of photographers ha
laid itself out to get a negative of Premier Gillies
now historic “ smile.” We advise Gillies to sto
clean-shaving and grow a moustache. No pol
tician should ever wear a clean shave unless h
has unbounded confidence, based on the possession
of an iron nerve, in his powers of lying. The lia
who is not absolutely iron-nerved is, when in
“ tight-place,” easily revealed to the physiogno
mist who takes the trouble to watch th
muscles of his mouth. We once knew a man
vrho in all respects save that one, was a reallj
magnificent liar, but he could never quite manag
his mouth, and so he could never deceive us. Th
barrister or gentleman who “ fancies ” himself a
a liar always shaves clean ; the nervous legal o
other liar, on the contrary, lets hisface-hairgrow
To us, one of the saddest sights in the world is to
watch a weak-nerved lawyer or clergyman o
politician, whom nature has doomed to failure bj
denying him a beard, trying to tell lies and impose
on us. The philosophy of the whole affair is tha
the liar who shaves must have plenty of cheek.
“Coo-ee,” a volume to be shortly pub
lished in London by Patchett Martin, will be
strong in poetry. It will give to the world hitherto
unpublished verses by Lindsay Gordon and Marcus
Clarke ; something from the pen of Dr. Moloney
of Melbourne ; and a gurgle (rapture!) by the
Jawbone Neild of the realms of alleged poesy—
Sladen. It will also contain what Mr. Martin
declares to be the “ finest poem ever written in
Australia ” —author, Gerald H. Supple, the short-
sighted Melbourne journalist who, many years ago,
in trying to shoot his supposed enemy, the late
Mr. G. P. Smith, shot another man, Walshe, anc
was for many years thereafter kept in gaol. The
magnificent defence made on Supple’s behalf by
Mr. (now Judge) Higinbotham, is a matter of his-
tory. In prison, Supple wrote a poem, referred to
above, entitled “ Dampier’s Dream, or the Dawn
of Australasia.” There are to be prose contribu-
tions from Mrs. Campbell Praed, the now eminent
novelist, who w r as a Brisbane girl; and from Mr.
C. Haddon Chambers, of Sydney, whose pretty
story, “ The Pipe of Peace,” lately published in
the Argosy, has been so extensively re-printed in
Australasia.
The “ Duke’s Daughter ” discourses again
in the Town and Country Journal, Prince
Albert Victor being her subject this time. “ His
simple honesty,” is one of the attractive sub-
headings of Beltenbrosa’s slush, and on looking
for particulars we find the “ honesty” was chiefly
manifested on one occasion when he sat like a
solemn skeleton and gazed around while every-
body else was laughing at a good joke. In any
other individual this would have been pure,
shark-headed stupidity, but in the case of the
heir-presumptive—or rather presumptuous—it
was “simple honesty” which prevented him
laughing at a joke he did not understand. The
“Jook’s” offspring also tells a pretty little anec-
dote about Prince George, the younger brother of
this gorgon, who, while yet a nasty little boy,
many years ago, came to dinner in a state of un-
adulterated nakedness, and then she winds up
with some moral reflections, among others being
the following: “Heaven has conferred, even on
the inferior people, a moral sense, compliance
with which would show their nature invariably
right.” This is not “ Peeress,” however, but Con-
fucius, for the “daughter of aJook” has been
reduced to borrowing from a 2400-year old China-
man to fill out her correspondence.
Some time ago, a gifted Australian author,
whose latest work is now enjoying a wide circula-
tion in boot-trunk-making circles, paid a brief
visit to Fiji. He had then just published his first
half-crown burst of genius, and was trying to
escape from the consequences, but an influential
committee -with a pipe in its mouth called on him
and informed him that a few ardent admirers
were anxious to present him with an address and
testimonial, The kind offer was promptly ac-
cepted, and the author—decorated with a wildl
emblematic waistcoat, a large assortment o:
Abyssinian gold jewellery, high boots, and a whol
bottle of oil on his forelock, and looking altogethe
like a Disraeli who had been put up the spout by
someone who had afterwards lost the ticket —
appeared in due course at the hotel. Her
Wecker, a guttural sauor-krauter from th
Rhine, read the address, in which he “ gom
plimented the author on the veeling, bathos, and
brovundity of his work,” and solemnly pre
sented a little case to the man of gifts, bear's
grease, and jewellery, from which case presently
dropped two live rats. There was an awfu
pause, during which any one could have heard
whale drop, and the author turned the colour of
a newly-killed hog dipped in boiling water. Then
an individual of considerable savoir faire un
corked a phial, a tall Yankee shrieked, “ Boys,
some one’s been eating something dead,” and the
committee fled for their lives, leaving the genius
gasping amid an odour that suggested 1000 dead
dogs being cremated in a ohemical factory, witli
eternal perdition, rum and onions, and a volley of
asafoetida thrown in. The author was afterwards
rescued more dead than alive, and most people
hoped he was cured, but his last novel shows that
he has got them very bad again.
Kimberley “gold-field” has been well
advertised, even in London, and as, at a late date,
a ship was on the berth advertised to sail “for
Kimberley direct,” Heaven only knows how many
poor unfortunates have by this time been packed
off by their relatives to “seek their fortune ” in
the arid wastes and howling wildernesses
of the poverty-stricken, God-forsaken Far West.
“It now appears,” says a London paper,
“ that the whole merit of the recent dis-
covery of the gold-fields of Western Australia is
due to an Irishman —Mr. Edward Townley Hard-
man, a distinguished member of the staff of the
Geological Survey, Dublin, who was appointed by
the colonial Government to inspect and report
upon ‘ the geological features of the Kimberley
district ’in 1884. His report informed the world,
for the first time, of the existence of these gold-
fields, a statement which many received at first
with doubt; but its complete accuracy was
subsequently borne out by those who followed
in his footsteps, and now everybody concedes
:o Mr. Hardman the honour of being the
pioneer of the road to that vast wealth which
tiis discovery holds forth to Western Australia.”
It is a good job for this illustrious Dublin geologist
that the droves of once sturdy miners who, foot-
sore, centless and fever-stricken, are returning
from the bogus Kimberley goldfield, in no way
hold Mr. Edward Townley Hardman responsible
for the infamous lies promulgated in the Austra-
lian press in the interests of steamship-owners,
storekeepers, and station-holders. If the hundreds
of men who have been so basely deceived in this
matter had a fair chance of wreaking their col-
lective vengeance upon the necks of the persons
responsible for their misery, we don’t think that—
numerous as are the seekers after notoriety—
there are many individuals who would have the
hardihood to stand on the Australian mainland
and publicly take to themselves the entire and un-
divided credit of having started the Kimberley
rush.
THE DAY WE WERE
LAGGED
I^Trj'W. K e
I |sl (atfjtf)e $) a<fe-
| Sy^ife 0l j a C u rioiJS frarp }> e pfcyecf-
R parity a Smef e SRhjir
Rycfbe Jaw “fittfe
\ fa C&'y
\ f O ’
“ Ye men of science, princes, kings.
Fly hither on philo-bibulous wings—
For we’re going in for a Jubilee,
We’re a going in for a deuce of a spree
In two years’ hence,
And d the expense—
A grand Centennial Jubilee !
“ One hundred years ago—let’s see—•
We —that is—ha—hum—yes, dear me ! ”
(And here the melody somewhat flagged,
For the minstrel coughed till he almost gagged)
We came, we saw,
According to law —
I sing, you know, the day we were 1 .
(Here the string broke, and nothing more was heard about the matter.)
POLITICAL
POINTS
The English Primrose League uses boy-
cotting as one of its principal wettpons.
Henry Ward Beecher says that “ all the
world over intellect is supporting democracy, and
as the masses are beginning to think, the rule of
aristocracy will not long survive.”
Vanity Fair’s remedy for the Tories
troubles is that “the Queen should appoint her
own Ministers. The system by which the House
nominates the Prime Minister and he nominates
his colleagues is a modern corruption ! ”
The electors of East Macquarie propose to
call on Mr. Shepherd, M.L.A., to explain “why
he let himself get licked” in the late N.S.W.
Parliamentary fight. Nobody seems to desire to
sit heavily on Mr. Lyne, but then the public
always howl with the dog that is uppermost.
Louis Napoleon had somewhat of the
prophet about him. This is what the Empress
Eugenie wrote in 1857. “ They are an imposing
race these Germans. Louis calls them the race ol
the future.” “Ditto” to Louis. The peaceful
Teuton invasion of Australia commenced last
week, when the pioneer ship of the new German
line landed 196 passengers at Melbourne and
Sydney.
The Victorian Conservative lawyers and Im-
perial Federationists unsuccessfully moved heaven
and earth to get that obscure straw-splitter, Mr.
Wrixon, appointed Chief Justice over the head oi
Judge Higinbotham. They are afraid that Judge
Higinbotham, if appointed Acting-Governor, might
by the “ peculiarity ” of his views, cause a rupture
between the colony and that Downing-street,
which he so much despises.
The Bullionist states that it is able to put
its finger on syndicates that would bo “ happy to
purchase the entire Australian railway system at
the sum which it now represents in the national
debt.” It does not say, however, whether the
syndicates want to keep the wild-cat railways and
work them, or to float them into companies and
finance on them, and then pass the swindle on to
somebody else. The latter is much the more
likely of the two.
In China they have a compulsory cultiva-
tion law. In every village there is an Agricul-
tural Board consisting of old and experienced
men who sit in judgment on defaulters. Every
Chinese landowner or occupier who neglects to
cultivate his land according to the regulations is
punished with stripes—so many stripes for every
acre of land uncultivated. What nice little flog-
gings the Duke of Sutherland and other land
owners would be entitled to if they had only the
luck to he Chinamen 1
* (Premier Jennings’ proposal to give the
British Association free passages to Australia is
veritably a‘ ‘ centennial” idea. The people whose
landing in Australia a hundred years ago Premier
Jennings proposes celebrating got free passages
too. But, unlike the British Association, they
didn’t get return-tickets.
The cabled news of the rejectment o: :
Parnell s motions condemning Irish winter evic
tions, recalls a story told of Lord Byron. Whe
the poet was in Parliament, a petition settin j
forth, and calling for redress for the wretchec
state of the Irish peasantry, was one evening pre
sented to the House of Lo; o and very coldly re
ceived. “ Ah,” said Lord /Lyron, “what a mis
fortune it is for the Irish i/nat they were not bor
black ! They would then have had plenty o !
friends in both Houses.”
“ Bursting guns and crippled ships are jus ;
now the order of the day in the British navy,
says Vanity Faiii. “On the other hand, th
extraordinary efforts made of late years to perfec
the French navy have boen so successful that two
of the leading French Admirals declare it to bo ii
(be most perfect condition, and one of them says
II to-morrow we had to undertake a naval war
T should sail without the slightest anxiety at the
head of my squadron, and I should not doubt for
an instant of success, even had we to encounter
the fleet of the foreign power which is at presen ;
regarded as the most formidable.’ ”
Revenue is getting short in Queensland, as
in many other places, and Dickson, M.P., who
carries the bag, calculates on filling the gap by a
tax on the dead. The widow left with a large
family and £lOO cash, will, in future, have to pay
£5 to support Sir Sawmill Griffith in his wild anti-
reparation career, and by the time she has buried
the lost husband and father and supplied mourning
for the orphans there will just be about 11s. 6d.
left. A widow, you see, has no vote, and an
orphan baby is only a cantankerous little cuss who
may never live to grow up and organise himself in
the cause of Federation and cheer for the great Ah
Sam, so that alligator-hide lawyer will go along as
usual.
In a recent and somewhat ferocious attack
upon the N.S.W. Minister for Lands, Mr. Abigail,
M.P., remarked, “He was evidently adopting
Shakespeare’s advice in Hamlet— 1 Get money—
honestly if you can—but get it.’ ” Mr. Abigail,
you are wrong. It was Hamlet who wrote the in-
junction quoted: it appears in his well-known
play “ Shakespeare” in that scene where Marc
Antony, a venomous little leather-seller, is offering
to give his kingdom for the horse which William
rode at the battle of the Boyne. This misconcep-
tion on the part of Mr. Abigail goes to prove that
no one man can pretend to a complete knowledge
of spelling, sole-leather, and Shakespeare at the
same time.
A West Australian paper declares that
“N.S.W. would be a great deal better without
responsible Government. ” Western Australia has
not got it, and except for the little drawbacks that
the colony is empty, and has no budget and no
money worth speaking of, and has no trade of any
moment, and no prospect of any, and no serious
debt because no one wants to lend her money—
but for these and a few other trifling items, she
has got on just as well as her neighbours. Re-
sponsible Government, however, does not look
very bright in N.S.W. at present, and perhaps a
good, healthy despotism, with a Sultan to run
things for a year or so, and a few Bulgarian atro-
cities to wipe out the present race of legislators
would be an advantage.
Mr. John Murray, the lazy member for
Warrnambool in the Victorian Assembly, is op-
posed to Parkes and the parsons on the New
Hebrides question. Speaking in Parliament, the
other day, he remarked that “ the cormorants of
the Presbyterian church had found *in those
islands splendid feeding-grounds. ” And further,
knowing the Presbyterian ministers as he did, ho
said that “ if he were a New Hebridean, and had
to choose between two evils —French soldiers or
Presbyterian missionaries—he should say, 1 For
goodness sake, give me the French soldiers ; or,
even before the missionaries, give me the French
convicts.’ ” From all of which we conclude that
the meenister at Warrnambool has been canvass-
ing for John’s hated political rival.
Poor old Cross, the hack of the English
Tory Ministry, is becoming troublesome. A few
weeks ago it was cabled that he was to become a
peer under the title of Viscount Warrington, and
nobody seemed much excited at the news. Then
we heard that this was a mistake. He was only
to become Lord Cross, and the general opinion
was that he might have become Lord Hoss or
Lord Bosh if he pleased, but that in either case
the news was not worth paying for at Anglo-
Australian cable rates. Reuter’s telegraphic
Jeames gathers up these valuable items in London
and sends them to the S.M. Herald, and the
Herald’s Jeames passes the slush along. This
item is rather old now. We were waiting to see
if it would improve, like colonial wine, by keeping,
but it didn’t.
The N.S.W. University authorities seem
to have some faint sort of a wish to popularise the
study of Political Economy, as they have recently
appointed Mr. A. C. Wylie, Barrister-at-law to
deliver a course of lectures on this subject open
to all who put up the necessary fee. It is also
announced that the class will be held in the High
School instead of as formerly at the University
itself. It would be a blessing if some of the Mem-
bers could be induced to attend. They would
profit by some such instruction. Within the last
fortnight Mr. See, who is said to be a certain
Minister in the adjacent future, objected to the
Income Tax Bill because he preferred direct taxes
to taxes on incomes. But, for all that, we don’t
think any members will be attracted. If the
lectures were on the political sciences of contract-
fakmg, billet-grabbing, or commish-raking, they
might be interested, but still very few would go
for several have learnt more than a whole Uni-
versity could ever teachin these profitable branches
of knowledge.
THE FUTURE.
(A SONNET.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sprung from the strongest race on God’s green
earth,
That bound the broad sea with an iron band
And chained, with chains of linked steel, the
land —
Shall we, the sons of sires like these, make mirth
Of our great heritage and boasted birth,
Leaving the deeds of ancient days to stand
In scorn of us—like sphinxes in the sand
Of this our littleness and want of worth ?
Or shall we with a new free flag unfurl’d,
Build a broad Empire, strong to save or slay,
On the firm pillars of this under-world,
Which calm and high shall hold its onward way
When older thrones down ruin’s rocks are hurled ?
I say not, but the coming years shall say.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


Sir John Robertson closed his career last Saturday
night amid the popping of champagne corks. A sort
of apotheosis of fizz, so to speak.
Sir Fat Jennings intimated in his speech that he would
“ follow in Sir John’s foot-prints.” He will find them
rather an easy fit.
EE THE MOORE PARK “ESCAPADE."
First Virtuous Citizen : “ I tell you hanging is
too good for such villains, and you object to flogging
and hanging both; now, in Heaven’s name tell me
what we are to do with this class of ruffians 1”
2nd Virtuous Citizen : “ Send ’em to Parliament.”
Lord Carington opened the Agricultural Show at Ah
bury this week, where he made himself “ very popular,”
as usual.
I 1 • ■■•■ j 11
[ With referenca to Mr. Coonan’s visit to Con-
e dobolin our correspondent writes“ The
i electors in this part of his constituency have
| given Mr. Coonan a favorable reception. When
[the unanimous vote of confidence had been
= passed in his favor he expressed himself to bis
ji supporters in the following terms, via. j—‘ Such
| a remarkable manifestation of your coufidenca
=is highly gratifying. The/bore so because I
= knowiti§ from the generosity of your eonls
| that you thus stand by ms in my hour of tfiaL
[I shall never forget your kindness, and hope to
ibe able to shape my conduct in tho future so'as
|td show thatyottf generosity has not been mis-
Iplaced. After what 1 have experienced I shall
to Sydney with a light heart I feal
Ethat the sun ef mv existence will shine to-
imorrow undimmed by the small clond which
jto-day threatened to spread and obscure it.’
=Mr. Cootfan had a narrow escape from being
|drowDed on his way here. The Forbes road on
Ethe CondoboUn side of the Lachlan has been in
Ea disgraceful state all winter. Large portions
Eof it are covered with water, and to thore not
Eintimately acquainted with the track travelling
Eia dangerous. Mr. J. Wilk* was driving Mr
ECoonan, and when about eight miles from Qon-.
Edobolin, thinking they were t>n\hs roar!, they
fonnd the buggy iitixthg and the
swimming. They were croSiing a
ECreek with a 1 depth of abont Tfod eHhayl
Efcf taw hoTges become entangles grxfficientlyNjfe
Efcfep its progress the buggy wopid
Ebably papsized, and the occupaits, with their if
rfeet wrapped in rugs, pitched jlto the water,
fortunately, Mr. Coonan escaped
eking.” ''."IP!
Mr. Coonan’s vindication—also his narrow escape.
0, the Tet.koraph man has come out of the West
With his trousers all torn and no sign of a vest,
There are burrs in his whiskers, hay-seed in his hair,
Some cash left on hand, for he tiavelled half-fare,
With his swag filled with paper, a billy with ink,
He went 'mongst the squatters to find what they think,
And he knows what’s o’clock, from Beer-sheba to Dan,
For they opened' their hearts to the newspaper man.
“ The. squatters complain,” and with reason, no doubt,
With lease-holds befuddled, and seasons of drought;
The land-laws want mending, the country wants rain,
For the squatters have nothing to drink but champagne.
ANTARCTIC EXPLORATION.
(Bt Cable.)
Hobart, Monday.—At > meeting of tho
Royal Society, the Deputy Commissioner of
Crown Lands read a paper on “Antarctic Ex-
ploration," and a resolution was adopted in
favor of Tasmania joining with the other Aus-
tralian colopies in dispatching an expedition to
the Southern Seas.
Tf a Aarf~of Sc/ip/ne To Tsar
/ce /tt/~o <£Tyc/n. ey 7~ 6y
me a tvs &T- /tea) ferro&r
*Some. TTvorfT rrt-<?n, e y /rt-, •
He cannot be drowned ydio is born to—go to Parliament.
Pictorial Paragraphs.


The’ Death of Little Bill.
MAMMA JENNINGS: “AH, GEORGE, I THOUGHT WE WOULD NEVER REARHIM.”
PAPA GEORGE: "OH, HE WAS RIGHT ENOUGH UNTIL HEYDON, AND SHEPHERD, AND THE OTHER LITTLE BOYS, BEGAN PELTING AT HIM"
MR. MELVILLE (Undertaker to the Family): "WELL HE'S DEAD ENOUGH NOW, SO YOU MAY AS WELL LET ME BURY HIM. I SUPPOSE YOU
WILL HAVE A VERY QUIET FUNERAL."


Society
At that Woollalira wedding, the girls said
the bride’s complexion was “rather yellow.” The
yellow was probably a mere reflection of the green
visible in their own faces. Yellow and green, you
know, are complementary colours.
* * *
That was a horrible catalogue of cruelties
proved against Mr. Splatt in Sydney Divorce
Court, the other day. However, we consider
Splatt mad. We base our opinion on the fact that
he once wont to live with his mother-in-law.
* * *
At last a man has had the courage to do it.
He was riding in a Darlinghurst ’bus, one fine day
last week, when a beauteous and extensively got-
up creature, who, although she does move in the
best Potts Point society, might easily have con-
descended to see that the vehicle was already full,
struggled in and was about to sit on somebody’s
knee. A masher —which his front name is Claude
—arose and gave her his seat. She flopped down
into it, wriggled her improver, settled into his
place, frowned like a thunderstorm, and said never
a word. “Madame!” said the masher, in tones
(>f the ancicn regime, “ I have given you my seat,
not as a matter of right, hut as a matter of
courtesy, yet you do not thank me —you even
frown. lam sorry that I should have in any way
offended you ; I now have the honour to wish you
a very good morning.” Did she blush? No, in-
deed, the paint was too thick.
* * *
From a Sydney daily
“ From numerous copies of the Court Circular, which
have been sent to Sydney, we perceive that Mr. R. Burdett
Smith has been a distinguished guest at many fashionable
festivities, and has had many opportunities of dining with
dukes, duchesses, and other members of the nobility. Mr.
Smith appears to have left the political world to lesser
lights, and to have devoted himself to the higher circles of
society.”
Let us once and for all set Potts Point and Toorak
right in re this Court Circular business. There
are two Court Circulars— -one, the little official
handbill which records the names of the German
flunkeys and other “noble” loafers who have
,i ust had the ineffable honour of licking the hoots
of Her Gracious Majesty, and which tells you, for
example that the Princess Frederica of Hanover
yesterday condescended to come out of her magni-
ficent pauperdom at Hampton Court Palace —only
things aren’t stated quite so “straight” as that —
and put her royal Teutonic hoof on the green
sward of Bushy Park for a quarter of an hour, the
Honorables So-and-So and So-and-So being in attend-
ance. That Court Ci ROULA r is, in short, Queen Vic-
toria’s especial organ, and is emphatically not the
one in which Mr. R. Burdett Smith, and Henniker
Heaton, and various Australian snobs, so often
and so prominently figure. The other so-called
Court Circular is a weekly “society” news-
paper run by one Savile Clarke, who has made a
fortune out of a smart idea. Having found that
the name of the sacred Royal handbill above-
mentioned was not copyright, Mr. Clarke calmly
appropriated its name and started another Court
Circular, to the intense disgust of Her Gracious,
&c., who was, however, powerless to interfere.
Had he in former times “ prigged ” anything from
Royalty, his head would have decorated a spike
over the Tower gate ; but as matters stand, Mr.
Savile Clarke lives in clover by ministering to the
vanity of the vast army of colonial and other
toadies. Long may he wave!
* * *
The marriage of Captain Terry, A.D.C. to
Governor Carington, with pretty Miss Laura
Throckmorton, has convulsed Sydney society to
its foundations —wherever they may be. Broadly
speaking, the wedding is the only one of import-
ance which has taken place in N.S.W. for about
half a century. The bride’s dress from Paris and
the bridegroom’s get-up from London have been
fully discussed, and so they should have been, for
the affair was of such general interest throughout
the colonies that it was at one time suggested that
it should be deferred until the “ Centenary.” The
history of the gallant bridegroom is of transcen-
dent interest. We have read no less than 17
columns bearing, on the subject in the daily press
within the last week, and gather that he first saw
1 ght in the year 1863, and was about seven years
old at the time of the battle of Sedan, at which he
was not present. When he was yet in his thir-
teenth year the siege of Plevna took place, hut
owing to scholastic engagements, he was unavoid-
ably absent from the gory scene. But it was not
likely that one born in such stirring times would
long remain merely an idle spectator of unnum-
bered bloody pageants, so in, we are informed,
1883 he joined the Buckinghamshire militia —
whereupon the three Emperors immediately met
at Gastein and formed an alliance against Eng-
land. In time the skill with which the gallant
officer conducted himself at “ small and ear lies ”
attracted the eagle eye of Lord Carington—an eye
ever on the watch for evidences of military genius.
Captain Terry thus became A.D.C. toH.E. (itsounds
like Euclid). Leaving England a simple lieutenant,
he so distinguished himself during the brief voyage
of the Carthage that on his arrival he was pro-
moted to the rank of captain, and had the trip
continued another month he might possibly have
risen to the rank of a Field-Marshal. Well, any-
how, the good-looking and wealthy Captain Terry
got married at All Saints’, Woollahra, on Tuesday
of last week to Miss Laura Throckmorton, who,
we are particularly told, is the niece of Sir
Nicholas W. G. Throckmorton, and step-daughter
of Mr. Edward Wrench, of Caradon. The cere-
mony was performed by Primate Barry, the Rev.
(I. North-Ash, and the Rev. W. H. Mort, so that
the “ knot” was made rather complicated. Before
business began the Primate abjured the congrega-
tion not to laugh! The request was an odd one
and probably had some hidden irony in it. How-
ever, no one did laugh. The bride arrived
t wenty minutes late, and so kept H.E. and Lady
Carington and all the “ swagger” company wait-
i ig. The bridegroom gnawed his moustache with
vexation, but when the lady did come he left off.
The bride was attired in splendid silver brocade,
made with a moderately long tail edged with
delicate lace ruffling. Her veil was of plain
white tulle, falling a little below her waist, and
fastened by a diamond crescent and star. She
c irried a lovely bouquet, and was perfectly self-
p assessed throughout the ceremony, as was also
tie gay bridegroom. There were four brides-
maids, three being sisters of the bride, and the
fourth Miss Mabel Laidley. They were all beauti-
fully clad and looked lovely. The service was
choral. The church decorations had been carried
out by Searl and Co., of the Markets, and though
not extensive, were very beautiful; curiously
enough the font had received special attention.
Besides H.E. and Lady Carington, there were pre-
sent Admiral Tryon and his flag-lieutenant, Mr.
Pakenham; the Primate and Mrs. Barry, Mrs. J.
A. Joseph, Colonel and Mrs. Airey, Miss Hogg,
Hon. J. B. Watt, Mrs. Henry Mort, Mr. and Mrs.
Gilles, Mr. and Mrs. Bertie Lord, and Lord Bertie,
Captain Gascoigne, Mr. Wallington, Mr. Field,
Mr. Blacket, Judge and Mrs. Forbes, Mrs. G.
North-Ash, and Dr. and Mrs. Nott. Upwards of
100 guests attended the breakfast-table, and in the
evening a small dance concluded the entertain- !
ment. Captain and Mrs. Terry left by special
train for Sutton Forest at 5.20 p.m. in order to
spend a few days at the country residence of Lord
Carington. They proceed to Melbourne to he the
guests of Sir Henry Loch on the 21st inst., thence
to Tasmania, and will leave for England in time
for the London season.
* *
Some peculiar proceedings processed at
All Saints’, Woollahra (Sydney), on Miss Throck-
morton’s wedding day. A lady took it into her
head to stand up on the font so as to get a better
view of the proceedings, and this action being in
direct opposition to all rules and regulations, the
female attendant went to this perching dame and
requested her to “ get off.” The “ lady” refused.
Female attendant sought the verger, who came
over to the contumacious lady and argued the
case at some length, but to no purpose. At last
the verger, driven to desperation, called in a
genial mimber av th’ foorce, who tried persuasion
with the same success as the others. At last he
took her by the arm to forcibly remove her, but
the champion told him in a strong voice that he
was “exceeding his duty” and that she would
stay there as long as she liked. These remarks
doubled up Robert, for he let go of her arm in
double quick time, and the lady occupied her con-
spicuous and hardly-held point d’avantage until
she chose to resign it. Let’s see :we have called
her a lady, haven’t we 2
THE WHISPERING
CALLERY
The Woollahra Private Assembly hold their next dance on
September 17 at K ithsdale.
Lord and Lady Carington have issued invitations for a
musical evtning on 21st inst.
Mrs. Ridge, of Milson's Point, is having a musical party on
Thursday evening, the 16th.
Mrs. Merewether, of Bondi, is giving a dance at her resi-
dence on Friday evening, 17th inst.
The annual hospital ball which took place last week at
Glen Innes was an unqualified success.
How grateful that distinguished bridegroom’s mother-in-
law must feel to the T. and C. Journal !
On Thursday eve, 9th inst., Mrs. J. G. Heil, of the Glebe
Road, gave a very enjoyable juvenile party.
Mrs. Cameron, of Clifton, Enmore, has issued invitations
for an “At Home” on Thursday, the 16th inst.
Mr. and Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann have issued in-
vitations for “Private Theatricals” for Sept. 16th.
Mrs. W. Cooper gave a large and fashionable dance at her
residence, Woollahra House, Rose Bay, on 9th inst.
Mrs. Frederic Moore, Prestonville, Macleay-street, has
issued invitations fora ball to be given on the 28th inst.
Lord Carington, accompanied by Mr. Baring and the aides
attended the Hawkesbury races on Thui sday, the 9th.
Mrs. Baar, of Rosslyn-street, Darlinghurst, gave a brilliant
and successful dance at her residence on Friday evening, the
10th.
On Thursday eve, 9th inst., Judge and Mrs. Windeyer
gave a delightful musical party at their residence, Victoria-
street.
Mrs. Thomas Robertson, of Clifford, Darling Point, has
sent out cards for a dance at her residence, on Friday even-
ing, 17th inst.
The Rev. S. Levi, Jewish minister, West Maitland, led to
the altar a daughter of Mr. J. Friedman, of Wingen, near
Murrurundi.
A Philadelphia paper says: “The old couple (Patti and
Nicolini) have our best wishes, including one that this is their
final marriage."
“ John Strange Winter,” the author of that most successful
storyette, “Booties’ Baby," is identical with Mrs. Arthur
Stannard, a Putney (London) lady.
The officers of R.M.S. Iberia gave a very pleasant evening
on board on Thursday, the 9th. About 30 guests were present
at dinner and at a dance afterwards.
Waverley is going to have a flower Show. But we fancy it
will be a failure, as it is to be run in the interest of a local
park and not in those of the local curate.
A dance was given at Needs’ rooms on Monday evening, 6th
inst., by Mr. and Mrs. Alick Osborne to celebrate their silver
wedding. Most of the guests were relations.
A couple of gallant officers in one branch of the N.S.W.
army have resigned—not for fear of the Rooshians, but ap-
parently for fear of that far more deadly enemy, the examina-
tion.
The annual ball of the Victoria Social Club was held in
Carington Hall, North Shore, on Wednesday, the 9th inst.
Upwards of 100 persons were present, and dancing went on
till daylight.
A marriage is arranged in Melbourne between Miss Simp-
son, eldest daughter of Mr. Colin Simpson, of Toorak, and
Mr. Thomas Fairbairn, fourth son of Mr. Thomas Fairbairn,
of Moonee Ponds.
Mrs. Roberts, of Chatsworth, Potts Point, gave a very
enjoyable Cinderella dance at her residence on 10th inst.
The girls’ dresses were fresh and pretty, white in every
material being most conspicuous.
Mrs. Washington de Phipps said to some frienos in a
boasting tone, “ When I was at home in Ireland, ’twas no
unusual thing for our family to dme on peasants.” Of such
is the aristocracy of Rockhampton.
The people who attended the Sydney Liedertafel’s last
smoke-night are of opinion that no one but Albert Edward's
tailor could possibly have made the extraordinary garment
worn by Lord Bertie in lieu of a coat.
“ There are loud complaints abroad with reference to the
wine the Queen has been offering her guests at Buckingham
Palace lately. It is stigmatised as very poor stuff.” Humph!
“Anything’s good enough for the colonies !”
Mrs. Busby, of Redleaf, Rose Bay, gave an enjoyable
dance at her residence on Wednesday the Bth. The Govern-
ment House young men were present, also a number of the
Woollahra, Double Bay, and Rose Bay people.
A certain startling English novelty has quite a practical
turn about it: a lady has only to buy an Insurance Corset,
and get killed while wearing it, within twelve months from
the date of purchase, and the sum of £lOO will be paid her
representatives.
Mayor Young has opened his gardens at Annandale to the
public until the end of next month. He is said to have a fine
collection of exotics, and we understand he is shortly ex-
pected to exhibit his new title, lately planted, but to bear
fruit early in October.
A sailors’ free concert was held on Wednesday the Bth inst.
at the Sydney Bethel Union concert-room. The sailors and
their friends rolled up largely. The members of the Sailor s
Band performed during the evening, and the tars thoroughly
enjoyed themselves.
In his recent bankruptcy examination in London, Lord
Headley said that since a certain date he had not pawned
anything, for the sufficient reason that he had nothing to
pawn. This recalls the statement of another Irish Peer, the
late Lord Glengall, under similar circumstances—viz., that
his property consisted of “a glass ink-bottle and his wearing
apparel.
i*rom a society point of view there is nothing to tell re
garding the Hawkesbury races. Fashion and dre^s—there is
a difference—do not go there ; and this is not altogether to
be wondered at considering the distance and the slowness at
which our trains travel.
Visitors mustered strongly at Mayor Young’s quarterly
luncheon on 9th inst. “ Not only,” says a daily, “ were
aldermen present, but even members of Parliament put in an
appearance.” These pressmen are young of ironical. Mr.
Dibbs, as usual, gave a long speech.
The lady who does the fashion-writing in the Sydney
Globe calmly and artlessly tells her fair readers to “ take a
bath every day. If persevered in, you will see the benefit
that accrues from it.” And so say all of us! But are baths
a novelty in Sydney fashionable circles ?
It is alleged that Prince Henry of Battenberg—who now
occupies John Brown’s place in the Queen’s affections—has
been so cruelly snubbed by his Royal relations and by British
swelldom generally that he is absolutely afraid to venture
forth without the protecting wing of his mother-in-law.
The poor patients of Gladesville Hospital were last week given
an excellent concert, got up largely through the instrument ility
of Mrs. 0. E. Moulton, of Ryde. Many persons contributed |
music both vocal and instrumental, amongst whom were
noticed Mrs. King, Miss Brabazon, Mr. Wilkinson, and Mr.
Steane.
Lord Oastlerosse, lately of Melbourne, who is to marry the
daughter of “Lord" Revelstoke—his name was Baring and
he was “ ennobled ”by his dross—is delicately alluded to by
a contemporary as “the charming, convivial A.D.C. who
danced upon the table on the occasion of the festivity he paid
for at the Grand Hotel.”
Alderman Kither, of Adelaide, is, in England, a stupend-
ous philanthropist. And he is right. If he were to feed the
hungry of his native city or take to visiting the large crowd of
saints now in gaol at Adelaide, who would ever hear of it ?
As the poet beautifully says, “ He does good by wealth —and
sends a wire to make it fame.”
The Carington Skating Rink, Sydney, is attracting a great
deal of attention. On the 9th inst. it was largely attended on
the occasion of a “ Carnival on Skates,” followed by a plain
and fancy dress ball. The dresses were in some cases very
handsome; in others very much the other way. The music
was by the Balmain Alliance Band.
We read that at the Prince of Wales’ brilliant ball at
Marlborough House at the end of July “the colonials were
in full force, and did not seem one bit overawed by the
presence of diplomatists from every country in Europe.” The
more the colonists see of the great people of Europe, the less
reason they see to be frightened of them l
Mr. Firth, C.E., of Sydney, is announced to have fixed his
affections at Double Bay. Mr. A. J. Been, of Miller’s Creek
station, is also reported to have received satisfactory assur-
ances from Miss M. Woodd, daughter of the Rev. G. Woodd,
Watson’s Bay. From Melbourne comes the news that the
daughter of a Major-General resident there is affianced to a
wealthy West Australian squatter.
A bazaar in aid of St. Andrew’s Church, Summerhill, was
opened in the church schoolroom on the 7th inst. The ladies
who got the affair up were members of what is known as the
—ahem!—“Parsonage Workbasket!” The stalls, &c., were
very tastefully decorated, and the fascinating Workbasketors
succeeded in extracting fortunes from the pockets of those
who felt it a pleasure to attend. We were not there.
The bachelors of Merriwa (N.S.W, gave a successful plain
and fancy dress ball at the local School of Arts, on the 3'd
inst. Over one hundred guests were present. Of the ladies
Mrs. W. Hall as “ Juliet Miss Howard as “Mary, Queen
of Scots;" Mrs. P. J. Egan as “Norwegian Peasant,” and
MissM. Lawless as “ Cards,” looked as nice as they make
’em. The gentlemen, as a rule, wore evening suits, but one
or two were in fancy dress.
At Greymouth (N.Z.) a bride is missing. She waited till
the only man she ever loved had got everything ready for the
wedding, and then she seized the wedding-cake and fled. The
bridegroom turned up at the altar, but as for the fair charmer
who had reposed her horse-hair chignon so often on his con-
fiding shoulder she was in the shadowy land of nowhere. She
may be on the railway, she may be on the sea, hut where’er
she be the bridegroom is still cussing round in search of she.
This is not poetry, but it is very near it.
Vanity Fair says Mrs. Crawford (Dilke’s friend) is comely
but not pretty—her cheek bones are too high. She is fresh,
blooming, blue-eyed, and full-figured, and might very well
sit for the milkmaid in the ballad, or for the Bailiff’s daugh-
ter of Islington. She has a pleasant voice, low but clear, and
an artless, innocent manner. At the trial, her pale, olive-
green, tight-fitting dress was cut to perfection, but her tower-
ing, reddish-brown straw hat was a failure. In giving her
answers she was nervous but self-contained, and said one or
two smart things.
A banqueQwas given to the officers of the German ships
in port at the German Club, Sydney, on Wednesday, the Bth
inst., by the members of the club. Amongst those present
were Mr. T. Grenier, A. Von Rompaey (agent for the German
Empire), D- Leibius, Captain Thalenhorst (of the Salier), the
Hon J L me, Mr. Carl Fischer, and, need we add, the
Righ Ho I W. B. Dailey, P.C. The toasts were many, Cap-
tain Von Baudissin responding for the Marine. He spoke
milch of the iron and blood that had welded together the
German Empire—which brought the Right Honourable to his
eet. War was his usual theme, and in blood he revelled.
But on this occasion he spoke of peace, never once being able
to bring in the Soudan fizzle even by a side-wind. Our only
P.C. was evidently cramped, but he concluded with some
words that lead us to suppose he will shortly enter the Ger-
man army. The evening was of course delightful, and every
one left fully satisfied with the share he had had of it.
The Sydney Liedertafel smoke concert came off on 10th
inst., the room being well filled. H.E. and Lord. Bertie
arrived about 8 o’clock, and sipped their whisky-and-water
like ordinary mortals. The programme was a very complete
one, the chief singers being Messrs. P. P. Jones, Morgan, and
M'Ninn, with the members acting as chorus. Mr. Jones
sang very finely “The King’s Champion,” and received an
encore. Mr 'J. Delaney acted as conductor, and Mr. C.
Huenerbein. as accompanist. The whole affair was very
successful
“ Babies are becoming fashionable," is the astonishing an-
nouncement of a contemporary. Lady Oarington, it seems,
takes her darlings with her on all possible occasions, and as
a result, fashionable ladies who have hitherto done little
exsept act as stepmother to an obese and evil-nosed pug
have now dethroned the burly-snouted canine and take out
their children instead. An attractive baby, it now seems, is,
after all, almost as good company as a wheezy dog, and the
rising generation accordingly are having a benefit for which
they owe Lady Oarington many thanks
Another lunatic has turned up at Windsor. His name was
Junior, and he had come down to marry the Queen. A goad
many lunatics have done the same, but very few sane men
have made the attempt. Junior amused himself for some
time by writing letters to his “Beloved Victoria” and signing
them “ Your husband the Emperor,” but getting no reply he
waltzed down to the palace to settle matters in person. He
was accompanied by a large clasp-knife, which he said he
used for cutting his corns, and presumably he brought it on
this occasion on the chance that Her Majesty might also
want to trim some old and reliable barometer on her toe.
Mr. Junior is now cutting his corns in a lunatic asylum.
The Czar of bankrupt Russia has had a bad experience.
He was leaving the Imperial photographer’s rooms when he
met on the stairs a towering, military-looking female, and
received a salute which made his aristocratic jaw drop in
terror. Fully believing that the lady was a Nihilist with an
explosive improver, he was about to yell for help when he
recognised in her a young officer of the Imperial Guard, who
was evidently travelling incog. Not knowing how to make a
curtsey, the unhappy Turk-slaughterer had given himself
away, and the indignant Czar ordered him to go and report
himself to his colonel, bonnet, “bustle,” and all, just as he
was. The dismissed sub. obeyed, and his superior grew blue
and apoplectic with rage as he listened, till the misguided
man with the bustle was forced to grab him in his arms to
prevent him from falling. It was just at this crisis that the
colonel’s wife came in and made a remark, and also tore out
all her supposed rival’s hair. She next reduced his apparel
to rags, and kicked him two or three times, and was about to
throw him out when he got his second wind and explained
the position. This is what is termed a joke in Russia.
On Wednesday, the Bth inst., Miss Pattie Lewis, sister of
Mrs. W. H. Traill, was married to Mr. James Fother-
inghame, late third officer of the Ly-ee-Moon. The
ceremony took place at Mr. Traill’s residence, the Grove;
Newtown, and was performed by the Rev. Andrew Gardiner
in the drawing-room, which had been beautifully decorated for
the occasion. A large number of guests were present. The
bride looked charming in a handsome dress of white satin
richly trimmed with lace and the usual orange blossoms.
She was attended by two prettily-dressed nieces and several
young nephews also charmingly attired. When the service
was over Miss Traill played the “ Wedding March ve/y
finely. The guests remained for the evening, and danced
energetically until the small hours. The presents were very
costly and of useful character. The bridegroom s present
was the Humane Society’s medal, won by him under such
memorable circumstances, made into a brooch. Amongthe
guests were Mr. Griffin (American Consul), Mr. and Mrs.
G Maiden, Mr. and Mrs. Somer, Mrs. Gullett, Mr add Mrs.
Maitland, Mr. and Mrs. Dan. O’Connor, Mr. and Mrs. Ilat-
tau, Mr. and Mrs. Well, Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Ward.
Admiral Tryon and the officer! and men of H.M. held
the naval sports on Sydney Association Grounds on I t'may,
10th inst. The day was splendid. There wrnre about 000
invited guests, and as cards had to be shown at the gate, the
usual 000 “ dead-heads” had to return to their dens m disgust.
The sports were conducted in a style from which landsmen
should take a lesson. There was no delay—one event nnisnea,
the bugle-call announced another, and so on to the ena oi
the programme. Lord Oarington rode to the grounds accom-
panied by his suite and some young gentlemen who are now
guests at Government House. A gallant captain was attirea m
a coat made apparently for a man 12ft. high and a fathom
and a half across the shoulders, riding-pants 4ft. across tne
upper portion and shrunk in to fit a pipe-stem at the Knees
leather boots to match, and billy-cock hat on one side of the
head. He attracted much attention, and was greatly ad-
mired. The Hon. Something wore a tight-fittmg ndmg-coat
of blue and sandy checks, each check fully lft- squar ,
pants to match, wonderful riding-boots, and spurs th
would have knocked life into the Soudan jackass.
nobleman’s attire was the most wonderful ever seen o . y
ground. He had come to show the poor Australian now an
English gentleman has to dress, and he has convinced
everybody. He was all day the centre of an admiring
throng. The Hon Baring drew immensely.
A
Scrienata
Lady, ’tis thy lover s lute
(The boss is deaf, I hope, old brute),
This quivering heart thrills to the core—
Hush I hear an opening door ?)
Lady, pray hear thy lover’s'plaint,
The wind is high, my voice is faint —
A humble suppliant here am I,
IVly"voice is faint, the wind is’high.
Dear Gladys, must kneel in vain ?
(I’ve heard her real name’s Mary Jane)'
Deign to look down and grace the night—
Curse the mosquitoes ! how they bite'!
The taper glimmers at thy pane—
Confound these drops, its bound to rain !
Lady, one word, or else I die
(I hope the pubs ain’t shut, I’m dry).
Throw open, now, the lattice wide —
Hurrah ! she sticks her head outside —
Fly to my arms, earth’s fairest daughter !
What’s this ? soaked through with dirty water !


The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse.
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 4 in Box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
& 3T Country Orders receive prompt attention.
STAYS SENT TO ANY RAILWAY STATION
FREE OF CHARGE.
q ?
CJ
o
Q.
&
CO
7^5
wzta.
NURSING AND RIDING STAYS.
CALL IN AND SEE OUR STAYS.
EVERY MAKE, SHAPE, SIZE, COLOUR, AND QUALITY
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., Is. 6d., Is. lid., os. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS, 666 an! 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B. —Orders from the Country will Receive Immediate and Careful Attention.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
first quality.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Itoml-slrcot., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL ANO INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
COMMERCIAL" HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
First-class Accommodation for Commercials.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
_£*lo,ooo. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2000; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the srper-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address —
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
THE NEW FURNITURE § CARPET
WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
NEAR HUNTER STREET,
known as
POMEROY HOUSE.
JOKES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
INVITE INSPECTION
of
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK
OF
CABINET AND UPHOLSTERY FURNITURE,
Carpets, Curtains, Rugs,
FLOORCLOTHS,
BEDSTEADS <&; BEDDINGr,
OFFICE FURNITURE, &c., &c.,
All of which are marked in
PLAIN FIGURES,
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
Out-door Auction Sales Conducted. Inventories and Valuations made
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
AMERICAN | f BUGGIES,
Carriages,*
Harness and Express
Waggons.
mnmuco.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
RPTCOT A FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY
Lowest Prices.
MMMOXMM
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED,


VARNISH AND VARNISH.
Few people probably outside the trades or pro-
fessions who use varnish in connection with their
business know much about its qualities, consti-
tuents, varieties, or general value. Yet it is
perhaps, the most valuable finisher that civilized
man is acquainted with —the art-preservative of
arts, it might be called. The beautifully var-
nished surfaces of the wood-work with which we
come in contact in everyday life, the furniture in
our houses and the carriages in the streets reflect
from their brilliant exteriors, as from a mirror,
the form and fashion of surrounding objects ; with
this result everyone is familiar, but with the
labor, care, and infinite skill required in the pro-
duction and application of these varnishes few
except the initiated are acquainted. The pigment
seems as deep as the sea ; but there is only a thin
film of it, and it is to the attainment of this end
that makers of the varnish have, with varying
success, devoted so much time, money and energy,
Three different kinds of varnish are manu-
factured, which may be classified thus: — -pirit
varnish, in which alcohol is used as a solvent;
volatile-oil varnish, where the solvent is turpen-
tine ; and the fixed-oil varnishes, where the resin
must be melted and then combined with turpentine
and linseed oil. The resin commonly used in the spirit
varnishes is shellac, the product of the banyan tree
of India. The volatile-oil varnishes are generally
composed of a solution of soft resins in turpentine,
and are inferior in quality to the others ; but the
base of the fixed-oil varnishes is copal or fossil
resins, found in many parts of the world ; hut
principally on the eastern sea coast of equatorial
Africa.
One of the main difficulties in the production of
varnish appears to he not so much to make it good,
but to make it uniformly good. Many small
makers make a hit sometimes, and turn out as
good a sample as the larger ones ; but it is im-
possible to insure uniformity of production, except
the business is conducted on a large scale, with
plenty of capital, plenty of room, and a sound
system; because where the gums and oils are
only bought in small quantities, though the
maker’s formula may be all right, he runs the risk
of getting a good lot of material one time and a bad
lot the next, and the uncertainty of varnish is one
of its worst and most common faults. All con-
sumers know this, and realise, while they mourn,
the difficulty of purchasing an article which can
be depended on for absolute uniformity at all
times and under all conditions.
One of the largest and best known manufac-
tories of varnish in the United States of America
claims that, “ When we sell a can of varnish, we
know just exactly what we are delivering ; for we
have not only formulas and rules, but we have
laboratory tests ; and then, to cap all, practical
tests of every tank by an expert painter, whose
duty it is not to compliment our goods, but to
criticise them.”
The varnishes of the Murphy Company are dis-
tinguished for their Paleness, their Fine Working
Properties, their Lustre, their Durability, and,
above all others, their Uniformity. The enormous
storage capacity of the Murphy Varnish Com-
pany’s works at Newark and Cleveland, in addition
to the stocks kept at Chicago and St. Louis for
convenience of shipment, insures the necessary
age, without which the finest properties of varnish
cannot be developed, and carries with it an as-
surance of uniformity which no other statement
could give. In addition to this, the factory system
of the company, which looks after the smallest
detail with the utmost completeness, is supple-
mented by careful and repeated practical tests by
the most eminent varnishers in America, and no
tank is allowed to be tapped for shipment until it
fully reaches the standard adopted for it in every
particular. Varnishes for finishing, for under
coats, and for miscellaneous work, are alike sub-
jected to these tests, and they are now introduced
to the public as the successful result of twenty
years of continuous labor, costly appliances, and
scientific research. The demand for them through-
out the States is enormous; once used they are
never neglected in favor of any other brand, and
there is no case on record in which they have
failed to give the greatest satisfaction and elicit
the highest testimony to their worth.
Messrs. Albert Gregory and Co., the well known
and extensive wholesale coach and saddlers’ iron-
mongers, of 40, Market-street, Sydney, have been
appointed the sole agents for New South Wales
for the Murphy Company’s Varnishes, and it is
believed that this will be a well-appreciated
addition to their already extensive and well as-
sorted stock of all requisites connected with the
business with which they are so favorably indenti-
fied in this city.
A visit to the extensive premises of Messrs.
Albert Gregory and Co., in Market-street, reveals
a stock of Coach and Saddlers’ Ironmongery which
apparently comprises every item known to, or
likely to be required in any branch of either trade.
The four floors of the warehouse are packed with
materials, some of which are familiar at a first
glance, and others only to he recognised by those
conversant with the trade. There are to be
seen :
Axles and Springs of English and American
make for every description of vehicle, from a light
buggy to a heavy dray.- Malleable Castings of all
sorts. Wheelstuff for Sulky, Buggy, Coach, Cart,
&c. ; nothing being kept but the very best second
growth of timber. Hickory Poles, Shafts, Circles,
Bars, and Lazybacks. All sizes of Hickory and
Ash planks. Bolts and Nuts, both English and
American make; Carriage, Tire, T Shackle, &c.
On the next floor we find Leather of all descrip-
tions and varieties used in the business. There is
Colored, Trimming, Enamelled, Top, Dash, Seal-
skins, Japanned, Basils, Colored Roans, Morocco,
and Middlings. Carriage Cloth, Lace, Tufts, But-
tons, See. English and American Duck, Muslin
Oil Carpet, Tufting, and Seaming Twine, and all
matters that go to make up the necessaries for
the coach-finishers’ work.
In another part of the building every kind of
Eoglish and American harness is kept, with collars
of all sorts and sizes, buckles, webs, Checks,
kerseys, English and Colonial heads and reins,
breastplates, stirrup leathers, and irons, cruppers,
girths, hames, back, plough, and trace chains, &c.
In the paintroom is a large stock of dry and
ground coach colors, in small packages and large
tins, axle grease, softsoap, vaseline, oils, turis,
white lead and varnishes, including
, the FAMOUS murphy varnishks,
which are now so largely in demand in the work-
shops of Europe and America.
As a ready method of attracting the attention
of the general public to the value of these var-
nishes, and thereby simplifying the process of
their introduction, it has been decided to present
A WATERBURY WATCH
to every purchaser of a trial sample of not less
than one gallon each of Murphy’s “ Palest Dur-
able Carriage” and “Pale Durable Body” until
further notice.
All inquiries concerning the Murphy Company’s
Varnishes will be cheerfully answered, and every
information given on application to Messrs, Albert
Gregory and Co., the sole agents for New South
Wales,
“RAIDING THE GAMBLING DENS.”
POLICEMAN X.: “IT’S A RAID ON YER GAMBLING DEN THAT IS TO BE MADE,
JOHN, WHIN WOULD YER LIKE IT NOW.”
JOHN: “YOU COME MONDAY, ALL LI; YOU COME TUESDAY, ALL LI.”
POLICEMAN X.: “OH WE’LL JUST MAKE IT TUESDAY, THIN.”
JOHN: “EIGHT O’CLOCK TUESDAY ALL LI. ME MAKE LEDDY ALL LI.”
“The Chinese dens were raided last night, but no gambling was going on at the time of the
officers’ visit.” —Daily Paper.
Mr. Shepherd Smith, identified with the
Bank of New South Wales for the last 33 years,
and for some time past its general manager, died
on Monday afternoon last at the age of 51 years.
His funeral on Wednesday was very largely at-
tended. By an error in making up, a paragraph
reporting his previous convalescence appears in a
few copies of this issue.
The New Hebrides hysteria is rapidly
abating in Victoria. Even the Rev. Mr. Paton,
who has raved so long and so unsuccessfully on
the subject, is at last getting discouraged. He
convened a monster meeting for the other night at
a Melbourne church, with himself in the chair,
and four missionaries (including a Chinaman) as
supports. This galaxy of talent attracted a rush
of seven men and 28 women and children. They
constituted the “Australian people” on whose
behalf Graham Berry is making a fool of himself
by threatening France from the other side of the
Channel.
The great Chinese festival of ‘ ‘ hunting
the devil” has just come off at Ballarat (Vic.) A
huge bonfire was lighted at the rear of the Joss-
house, and a feast was prepared in an adjoining
shed, a pie made of Thomas pussy occupying a
prominent position on the bill of Mongol fare. A
priest chanted some celestial poetry calculated to
scrape the hair off a wombat, after which 100
yellow men banged tom-toms, and other festive
instruments, and every now and then an adjourn-
ment was made in-doors, where, prior to a fowl
and pie orgie, and a big opium-smoke, the com-
pany bowed solemnly to a horse-hide image, sup-
posed to be a deity.
The Revd. J. Poole, a visitor from Cal-
cutta, where he conducts a large missionary busi-
ness, says, “some of us have wondered how it is
that Australia has no missions in India.” We
can throw a little light upon that subject. Her
Gracious Majesty’s Indian subjects are not profit-
able converts. They have little in the way of
merchandise to swap for the blessed truth. Why
should our missionaries go to India and work for
nothing, when they may, perhaps, pick up a nice
Pacific island, for a couple of bibles and a double-
barrelled gun ? Not that we do not occasionally do
something for the heathen on the other side of the
line. Didn’t we send a Contingent to the Soudan ?
When the much-paragraphed Mr. Quong
Tart and his bride were honeymooning at Ballarat,
a gorgeous little chavoo was got up in honour of
their visit. Singing and champagne, music and
blanc-mange, congratulations and cold chicken,
were plentifully provided, but the tenderest chord
of emotional sympathy was touched when a poem
composed by “ a young lady admirer of Mr. Tart”
(and there are millions such) was read by Master
Little. The lines are apostrophic, and the last verse
wails along in this fashion :
“ And as we welcome thee this day,
With loving and with open heart;
So will we speed thee on thy way—
Long live Quong Tart!”
The poem as a whole is appropriate to the occa-
sion. “Heart” only rhymes to “Tart” twice, a
very moderate number of times considering the
very obvious connection that has always existed
between the two. Mr. Tart may well be proud of
these verses, but it won’t do for other “lady ad-
mirers” to pay similar tributes in future, for the
great heart of feminine Australia must realise the
fact that the gallant little man is now securely
i and irrevocably married.
Mr. John Shepherd— the N.S.W. legisla-
tor, not the burglar—doubts whether there ever
was a Parliament more degraded than the pre-
sent. Mr. Shepherd is a member of it, and if he
doesn’t know, who does ?
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Scia-
tica and other analogous affections should try
Freeman’s Original Ohlorodyne, a medicine that
has, since its introduction in 1844, been tried on a
very large scale both by the Medical Profession and
the Public in every part of the habitable Globe,
with unvaried success. Since its introduction
into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Ohlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and
is now regarded as the most efficient and valuable
medicine that has ever been introduced into the
Colony. The Profession prescribe it; Missionaries
prefer and use Freeman’s Ohlorodyne, and people
leaving Sydney for the interior invariably take a
sufficient supply to last them a twelvemonth.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark an Elephant.—Obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard 1
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
DISFIGURING HUMORS,
eczema, psoriasis, barber's itch, sore eyes, scall head, dandruff,
infantile or birth humors, and every species of itching, scaly,
pimply, scrofulous and copper-colored diseases of the skin
and scalp, with loss of hair, are positively cured by the Cuti-
cura Resolvent internally, and Outicura and Cuticura
Soap externally, when all other methods fail.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry Agent,
313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of con-
fidential business, traces absconders, wife deserters,
and missing relatives ; procures copies of certifi-
cates and wills, at moderate rates. Collector of
rents and debts. Acts as agent generally, Letters
written, 'the most absolute secresy o bserved.
Note the address: —313 George-street, second
floor.*
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
ROYAL.
HEA T R E
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mtjsgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10,30.
It is with feelings of great pride the directors
refer to the
GRAND INAUGURATION NIGHT of their
ANNUAL OPERA SEASON,
on Saturday evening last by
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROYE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CONPANY.
And the directors content themselves by simply
announcing that Gilbert and Sullivan’s most suc-
cessful work
THE MIKADO
will be repeated until further notice.
C A D E M Y 0 F MUSI C.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
General Business Manager ... Mr. A. L. Cunard.
764 NIGHTS 764
And still the leading attraction of the city.
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
in conjunction with the RAYNOR BROTHERS.
Tremendous success of our Burlesque Opera,
LUCREZIA BORGIA, produced by Raynor Bros.
' E W OPERA HOUSE
Under the lesseeship and management of
E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson. %
The management have much pleasure in an
nouncing the engagement of
Mr. W. J. HOLLOWAY,
and
Miss ESSIE JENYNS,
who was received on Saturday evening by a
crowded audience in Frank Harvey’s new and
original drama
A RING OF IRON.
A RING OF IRON.
Box plan at Nicholson’s music store, corner of
King and George streets. Prices of admission-*-
Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; PIT, ONE SHILL-
ING.
Bus. Man. for W. J. Holloway... W. H. Manning
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE HOME OF MIRTH AND FUN.
EVERYTHING NEW.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, AND FARCE.
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. Jno. Solomon.
Under the direction of
t Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Stage Manager Mr. Alfred Maltby.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, and for
TWO NIGHTS ONLY,
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY,
and Mr. HARRY SAINT MAUR,
in Bronson Howard’s Brilliant Comedy,
TRUTH.
On SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,
TWO TOO MANY.
Prices :—Orchestra Chairs, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Gallery, Is.
Box Office at Nicholson’s.
General Business Manager, Monty Browne.
R
0 YAL
STANDARD THEATRE
Castlereagh-Street.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
This and every Evening,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
FRIDAY Next, SEPTEMBER 17th,
Grand Fashionable Night,
ROMEO and JULIET.
JULIET Miss DAMPIER.
In preparation, FAUST
'i AIETY THEATRE— Every Sunday Night
A GRAND CONCERT,
Under the Direction of KNIGHT ASTON.
Admission, 2s. and Is. H. J. Samuell, Manager.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
In consequence of the death of
PROFESSOR G. A. STATHAM
and the serious illness of
Mr. R. R. LYNCH,
THE SYDNEY CONCERTS ARE POSTPONED
until further notice.
Thought reading
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUTTERED THOUGHTS.
Western tour. —Return Visit.
Molong shortly.
Mudgee, Rylstone, &c., to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY
and HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
First Australian Tour. Great Success Every-
where.
Cobargo—Friday and Saturday, Sept. 17 and 18
Bega—Mon., Tues. and Wed., Sept. 21, 22, and 23
Wolumla, Candelo, to follow,
Prices of Admission —Is., 35., 2s.
MR. CHARLES HUGO has pleasure in in-
forming his Patrons and Friends that his
Company,
HUGO’S BUFFALO MINSTRELS
and
CIRCLE OF ACCOMPLISHED LADIES,
Are at present playing at the
THEATRE ROYAL,
Hobart,
To crowded houses nightly.
He further wishes to state that no other Com-
pany using the name of the BUFFALO is in any
way connected with his own.
Openings will always be made for Specialty
Artists if possessing marked ability.
Manager for Charles Hugo, Herbert Hoe.
WJ. HOLLOWAV
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor,


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 9 t 1886.
lENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dates to which
Tenders
can he received
at this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Extension of Main Intercepting
Sewer along Parramatta-street
Fencing, &c., Police Buldings,
Cobborah
Erection of Station Buildings,
Thornley and Hornsby, Section
No. 1, South and North Rail-
way
Tuesday,
September 21,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of the Prince Alfred
Hospital Connecting Sewer
Kerbing and Guttering in
Grounds of University of
Sydney;
Alterations, &c., Lock-up, Ta-
ralga
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., Cowra
Erection of Lockup, Mount Vic-
toria
Ironwork Contract, No. 23,
Sydney Sewerage Works
Tuesday,
September 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
on Potts Hill, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wentworth Water
Works
Ditto Pump Chamber. &c., ditto
ditto, ditto
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes,
Valves, &c., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and Fittings, and
erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto
DittoFlexible-jointedPipes, &c.,
ditto ditto ditto
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Tuesday,
October 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
Cataract River, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Extension of Gosford Wharf at
Brisbane Water
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office at Wagga Wagga
Tuesday,
October 12,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Contract 1, Bourke
Water Supply
Construction of Settling Reser-
voirs, Boiler-house, See., Con-
tract 2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipes, Valves, &c.,
Contract 3, ditto ditto ditto
Supply and Erection of Engines,
Boiler, &c., Contract 4, ditto
ditto ditto
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
T |JHE above Hall is now the most completely -
JL furnished and popular pla.ce of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms —Apply,
R.
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
M.R 1 L E
(late of the Detective Force),
Y
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in j
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
m-irriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and !
Kew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
W Johnson”
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and •
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ILL ITS BRANCHES.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AN® LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets,
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills * and Suva, Fiji
m
sag
.A
SKa
iiU££il
m
2*4
v^.O=
With a lens that is good, and a shutter that’s quick,
Success is assured, it depends on no trick ;
The plates must he “ Rapid,” and you stand a good show,
If you get “ Rapids ” marked “ Extra ” from Lichtner & Co.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
mdferl 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, [ontalW e B .
HENRY LANCASTER,
R/V
£
1
Ik—_
7 fPOV
WATBR oa
BOD y
CAR 7*
Ymmum
HOT WATER
in iiiiimniimN
CYLINDER!
am*
\ NOT AFFECTED
\ BY WEATHER
(PAN
JETT LIE TROUGH^
mininiii*
TPOUUH^
CANNOT BE BROKEN
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION,
Works: 65 GEORGE
WEST, near Railway Station.
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Begs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A choice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. &3T Price List on application.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each ; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
.1
ri
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilized world where
the heaiing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
£3T Purchasasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy/in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del nor.te de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &e.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted, with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, hut strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A, HOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
M.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL preserves,
strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it contains
no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and
persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cooling,
and refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
and is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
admixtures; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly heat,
redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
immediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
brown or black, which colour neither washing nor
perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
Barry’s Tricopherous.
Guaranted to make the
hair grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER,
The original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Government. Put up in three
sizes.
Sole Wholesale agents:
S. HOFFNUNG and CO.,
a vvONDEKFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’3 PILLS
V
09.
PATENT
LLS
PI
7'
<E
4*
3
4*
©.
Are admitted by them
sands to be worth n
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pnm
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &e. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they wifi be acknowledged to be
WORT .i A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to 1 e found to equal BSECHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages t< sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will he found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBED
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
lest guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is.
Bee-ham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
•nedicine in the world.
3EECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILIA
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
■ulty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
■ind' Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief end comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beech am’s
Co run Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice tk t>
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on tl.o
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pill..
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
DR. BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
B I T T E R S.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi-
ernes fail.
I is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr
Bell’s Bitters so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters are so compounded that their action'
though mild, effectually produces the above results!
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to nav
for medicine. 1 J
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
-o
Butcher, Fehon & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
Now South Wales & Queensland,


MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
u and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
. uim w
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
f agi ance
Thrfe Gold Me pals—
PATHS,I*7B, CALCUTTA. 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebr ted
EAU DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. t i urp s>es me numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKI SON’S OLD SR'WN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world renowned soap is superior to all
others or cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use.
Of ail Drain's, and <>’ the Manufacturers —
J A: E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—“ White Rose ' on“ Golden
Ljre.” A
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS ono INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
I
\m
w
l fs(
oi^fS
s
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
RE JECTED. AT All CHEMIST S IN
- 10 fc 20 02 BOTTLES
0 ARNOLD 80RIOCES T
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can he
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
THE HEIGHT OF POLITENESS.
A TRAMCAR IDYLL.
HE (bluntly): “BEG PARDON, MISS, IF I’M A-SITTIN’ ON YOUR WIRES.’
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard 1
Miss Blanche : “Wouldn’t you say, Mr. Bow-
string, that Mr. Highnote has a falsetto voice?”
Mr. Bowstring: “Well, I don’t know, Miss
Blanche, as I should say quite that; but 1 know
that he has a false set o’ teeth, and does not wear
one of those beautiful and stylish £3 3s. suits, to
measure, cut by one of the eight high-class cutters
employed by Summerfield and Company, the great
juvenile out fitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
ot first-class Wmes, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney's Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A hrst-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 601 Hunter-street
Sydney. *
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
CALLED BACK.
The busy throng in Pitt-street is called back to
gaze with wonder at the beautiful display of Spring
goods in the windows of Summerfield and Company.
The well-known excellence of our boys’ clothing,
the pretty designs and moderate prices need no
comment. For big boys and youths, we are show-
ing a very superior line of long trousers suits at
18s. 6d. and 21s. Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
k 64 PITT STREET, and 538 G EORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
• (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
£No. 23 EOYAL AKCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.P.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
WISH
ii
WU*>
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Monuments
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requea
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MAaOAMST-STRBET, WYNWAItD-SqUAEK, SYDNEY!
THE MERCANTILE BANK Of SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England.
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory • • • Waverley.
m- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
umbrellas
ffi-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Anything yon require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MINNES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VERYBODY \T)PMI? T T ’ O
SHOULD USE/ 1 Ti IVI Li L L b
EXTRA SUPERFINE
rLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
831 Geobge-street, Sydney.
Good News for the Music-loving Public.
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, S/6, 7/6. 9/6. 12/6. 8 7/6, 21/. 25/. SO/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
as
Q
ACOORDEONS
Speciality
at 7/6,10/6 12/6.15/, 17/6.
21/-. C5/-, SO/-, 40/-, to £6
The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-. SO/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
COMETS at 4 " - ‘•aUk 10 *'"
Specialities : The new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5 0
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 9 10 0
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10 0
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker...
...50/-
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/—.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
SST Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC ! 1 MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
£5
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager.


mx
W.H. PALING & CO.
LIMMITED
356 GEORGE-ST.,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best Selected
STOCK OF
PIANOS, ORGANS,
AND
MUSIC.
Best Makers, Lowest Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT STSTEM
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Affliction.
W.H. PALING & CO.
356 George-st., Sydney.
w
Wholesale manufacturing
tONFECTIONER
420Gf(>roeSr^
SYDNEY
JANES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near Erskine ST
To OH OCR OH SHORTEST IHOTIC E.
Country a SmrrutC Orpbns fygttfTHAffffffH
[MANUFACTURING HATTERS.
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
NEWEST SHAPES.
AncT’at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. Z 3
E
IJ
P
H
0
R
B
I
A
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
„ a 1 _ PREPARED ONLY
ING
Rockham
y
B/OL
X
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout, selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
KEIGWIN & HARSTON, Sole Agents.
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker
1 Little Collins-strcet, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues ou application.
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infanta, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Foodever manufactured,containing fiftyper cent, ofthesolids of milk (digested)
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, ana increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient fo" use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
ijOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. i
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil & Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil arc refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptouised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil, and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial Will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most uerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., UNI., LONDON.
BULLETIN PRIMER, No. IX
Here you have a poor dog pursued by a billy and a Sydney Bobby. The Bobby is
the worst, for he will soon catch the dog and the billy both. He does not want the
billy, because it is an old one, and leaks, but he can sell the dog to the ' boiling-down
people for half-a-crown.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Said he: “ I’ve been married thirty years and
have never given my wife one cross word.”
“ That’s because you never dared to, uncle,” said
a little nephew; “if you had auntie would have
made you hop.” Silenee fell upon the circle, until
the red-headed servant girl came in and remarked
that the boy had better put on his new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit that had just arrived from
Summerfield and Company, the Great Juvenile
Out fitters 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
DR. GEORGE ON LEE,
31 CARLTON TERRACE,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
WILL see patients September 11 at Goulburn ;
16th, see Patients at Queanbeyan ; 22nd,
see patients at Broughton Creek ; 26th, see patients
at Dubbo ; 30th, see patients at Bourke ; 31st, re-
turn to Sydney.
DEMOCRAT’S POPULAR CONSULTATIONS.
CAULFIELD CUP of 1886.
1500 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... ... 200
Third Horse 100
Starters, £lOO ; Non-Starters, £lOO ; to be divided
amongst them.
Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tickets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. •T.
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers, 135 King-street,
Sydney, N.S. Wales
BEFORE AND AFTER.
“ Will you have a plate of Icecream, dear?”he asked. “ No,
thank you, I never eat cream in the winter,” she sweetly re-
plied. “Well, do try a dish of those delicious Oysters, won't
you, pet,” he continued. “No, Alfred, they are so dear,”
“I thought I was the only thing that was dear." “Oh,
Alfred, I must go home.” “lam so sorry,” he said. “ Oh,
pet, I know what you want. Let me order a bottle of that
famous St. Louis Lager Beer?” Her Beautiful blue eyes
lighted up. Just a tint of crimson appeared upon her lovely
face. When she could breath easy, she said, “Oh, Alfred
do.”
Marie Brizard 1 Who is Marie Brizard ?
IT IS VERY SELDOM
humiliating eruptions itching and burning tortures, salt rheum,
That practising physicians of all schools, not only endorse a
proprietary medicine, but prescribe it in their practice, yet
this is done every day in the case of Dr. Bell’s (Kidney
and Liver) Bitters—and why ’—because it always gives im-
mediate relief in all cases of diseases of kidneys, liver or
urinary organs and has permanently cured some of the worst
cases.
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS.
Extract from Sydney Sunday News :—
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of ‘ Democrat’s ’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, but in ‘ Democrat’s ’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of ‘ Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion.”
Several other newspapers have borne similar
testimony to the genuineness of “ Democrat’s ”
consultations.
MAMMOTH CONSULTATION.
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All “Democrat’s” consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
and respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” eare of J. P. T.
Cauldfield, 135 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sou t; SHOE SEILERS, GROCERS ml QBUCEISTS.
nilZB ICBDALft'
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD BEUiBLI
Peerless
Gloss.
& necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Bobbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
BOSTON,
VIENNA.
PHI LA.,
ld6d Is conceded to no
11m "THE STANDARD. 1 *
G. L.HAUTHAWAY&SONSp
£3l A 233 Congress Street, Eostaa,
MASS.. U.tJ.A
($
C 'f-
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITE R
T
HE
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE, CONVENIENCE,
ECONOMY.
MT THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves abour,
stationery, and time, writing much faster than expert pen-
men, and condensing matter to less than one-half the space
occupied by pen writing. Beautiful- copies may be taken in
the usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants, bankers,
solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors, reporters, and all
men of business should use the type-writer and save much
valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
110 Kent-street.
RAW YASELIJYE.
/y
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ an
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and, all kinds c
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
VHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
•oi rfndmojd gjap.iQ AnunoQ
•aajj'cjsod sau.gopri'BQ
•AHNdAS ‘XHHHXS XXId 80S ‘HCIVOHV HOC
SiMooifiiAu mmm
It* AVBIA UO SX’BMps AaaG
pTTßqpuooag pun Atayj SHHmOA UUU J
paSuuqoxg; jo ‘ppg ‘qqSnog
axooa sxooa sxaat
A
/ j(
4
O
O
st*
V!
i'W
4*


Sam Griffith and Separation.
SIR SAM (loq): “WELL, THAT’S ALL I CAN GET OUT OF THIS BOTTLE, ANYHOW.


K
fa
SALK CYLi
e/<S^ / c) v -- 3
1?,MELHUISH , PHARMACE UTICAL t'HEMIST
134 W/ll/a m ST ; S YD Af E
(VCuvt^,^
tdy
AG
BY THE proprie tor,
TOOTHPASTE
rof\ rrs/\NT/sEfT/c
firiD CLEA//s//G PROPERTIES.
Oo TS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
SIOH
never travel without it,
WjYJSTKO TJST EVERY HOUSE.
gp.
tzrsi
FLEAS. FU ES, BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES VrRA' ANO IS
AT THE SAME TlME QUITE
jHARMLESSTQ BIRDS DOGS
TOWLSOROTHERii
ANIMALS
FELTON •GRI MW ADLU C?
I
,fo r KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
_ the numerous imitations.
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE
JU OS ON’S
VEGETABLE Spirt
MPROVED
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is,, 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, sc., se.
B WGEREEI BUDGEREE !!
A
MARK.
wonderful Germ-killer and Fever-destroyer
instantly kills all bad smells arising from
Vi No w,^ Is ?nfkctant is the most won
- , should be without it, as it i
• T * by all chemists.
' A 8- C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
S !
®AGENTS for thk
Smith.
BRUCE & MASSEY,
DPI-AJKTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
’S PILLS,
liter remedy.
Vi and free from the
CUr T or mineral substance,
SjKc* *?2* ° f the nineteenth cen-
Retire ; they can be
1C\' Ki° n > and n,’ 1)61118 a oarofnliy pre-
or f .» * le result of practical ex-
X‘ s, COme the worst form of
** t«i, Kr &ach, Head and Kidneys.
. ■ they hare not afforded
*
STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINEI
TRADE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nerveus
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver ana
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving for
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigor to the whole system. Price 4s. (id.
Bold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney,
X.S.W.; Londeo.Eng.
TAKE NO BUBWITUTK.
CINAL
ORI
BAKINC
P Oty,
WL
%
Aigu Laughs oMU'’
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD*
°' R , ' - *■
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
po**>
IN C
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORID!!
-NONE OTHER BUT *
WAUC HS
RECEIVED TH El NTER N ATS ON A 8|
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTE ETH
rOMPLETESFT
ixV? t^ B,LOW fftA 1
s.^
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z AB ETH ST
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, bo-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College of
Physicians of England. Consult him for the
best and safest treatment on nervous debility,
skin, contagious, and blood diseases.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
JET
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst
quenching properties of this world renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —KEIGWIN and
HARTSON, Sole Agents.
PARRY&G?
NEW EXTRACT
OF
SOAP
S 3?
•HBW
*5
§®i\
all
’HPs.--
< I
>'V!
1
P *R(tY fc Co‘
L^XTRACT-SO^
Hill II
THE MAR SOAP!AL VIEW Of Hl® l'
§
i
CO
w
o
co
£JO>
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ams-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V
M
M
Borofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
groat Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a tesriblo sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Stein and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consionebs,
R. Towns Sc Co., Hew South Wales.
pUTICURA RESOLVENT', the new Blood Puri-
vJ fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
1 Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
smenta, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inllammation, clears the Sirin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautiftor
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CtmeuRA, in
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
[assachusetts.
3Tor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 aunts; Guticstra Shav-
ino 8oap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug; & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER & OPTICIU
Mbourke STREET,!
MELBOURNE. /
330 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f NEARLY OPPOSITE T flS
{ POST OFT ICE.
e keef
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable iro
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 0 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR Igj^H
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
I AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE REST ALE OR PORTER.”-Lancet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumhinj
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, tias Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE
' SYDNEY.
Full Particulars a?® Price on Application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUBLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAI
OR ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “ most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon, an
Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Youug Children.
Being aßsoiutely “all Cocoa," with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of preparations thickened yet
weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than sueh mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast
cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in a concentrated
form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
agp CELEBRATED for remarkably sustaining properties, specially adapted for earl a
BREAKFASTS. ADOPTED AS A MEDICAL COMFORT IN THE ROYAL NAVV
Retailed hy Chemists, Grocers, &c., in air-tight tins, at Is. 6d., 35., 55., 6d., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Agents, ,
Schweitzer & Co., 10 Adams-st., Strand, W.C., London,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
X s .
IMPORTER OP WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines’
• / and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at.the
Lowest Prices obtainable in -Sydney.
S3T A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE, m
Wedding and Pienic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for.
Oases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway Station or any wharf in the eity, or
any country station, Free of Charge.
M
7 Bottles LOWNDES’&RUMfJ
1 Bottle OLD TOM ill
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous <£3 Oases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY g i 3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM *** r 1 Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
I Bottle PORT WINE , «** i*; 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE - ***
Total 18. , " a
artioles contained in P. R. L.'s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality,'and have given perfect satis*
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at the Haymarket Post Office, .ij
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS :1
'*Sg
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
¥ALLAOH BROS.’
NEW t
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
*
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUga’RATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
CATERER AM) CONFECTION
654 GEORGE STREET.
T rjf,
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES ASPE^
SCHOTT <35 C ©*»
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY T H ® VT * V<
■TMiTIPY
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Also, at LONDON, MAYENCE, PARIS, and BRUSSELS.
7 'fi 1 s
STOCK IN THE COLON 1 _
C. R. YOUNG’S r|ll ;f,
COMMERCIAL BOP”
GULGOAG. ' ■ >..
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVBL^^^
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILLI OS
H. P. GREGORY & ,
iai u fAre*SOLEf AGENTSifor __
T. DE ri a,37- <Ss*Co., Ciao-ci^ 33,
And carry a Large StockJof their Celebrated
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
-milling *
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular
(( |
“ BOOKS.” Any Book You Want.
AJN G-XJS <&T robbpiT 6
112 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. . Jo°° V Us
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on appL° a
mail to any part of Australia.
OFFORD & CO.’S
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAP®®,
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at G 62 GEOB<M|
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
.packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son,'Forest
Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker, wfi
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Rcdfern.
LINEN GLOSS.
T. T. FODEN CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description of
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
STOREY,
AU
OTI
, fU‘)
fit
CORAKI, RIC H
-^rSSfy
MUSICAL I^E T ><*
705 aBOB^>
The
pric o
Send f° r
j;?
HE CLIMAX #f
monts® p ! /
LIME FRUIT
• r S OLD ®
jVIC*
■
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of -ZErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY COLD MEDAL for JErated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Modal for liqueurs
