

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
I " WV. ., g { ‘ “ 74,7534; >
o —‘ . Tu,» L} :1; '_’_4;;;_.;:§:r;i ’ ,A
b I _ ‘ .
X . :I ' ' ‘I‘-:' '7 I -‘ '
-’ _ ‘ .--~ ‘ ' r in , ‘
- "Ll/”'77" ‘ J‘- I’ {I}; ‘h * v I ‘
0 ,,:j/:«,- r-- ' 4» -,—a_,l- I .- 7 '
' 45/2; ’ ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ -,' ‘ . . " ' ' . ' W 4‘ J‘- H
2’» ‘%1 A , ‘. ‘
:-,/"/ﬁ.’/’ - l" e‘ “\ '
.’.: I ‘x § ‘9 .‘ .‘
- , A _ ‘ .p ‘ \. a ‘
v. / willy.” ‘ .I
. .4 L ‘ ‘ a ‘
‘ ‘ 2 “ Lu ‘
, ‘ . N _J ‘ 4 ‘
- a; 4
' a: r 4 v1 3w ‘ i l‘“ A 'l "“
' '1» ;~‘ : 5?, 3' ' 1: ‘ . ‘93—,
_ - . “~33" - ‘ _av. *' 3': ,
.51: 7 ', ‘ Ca ‘ Er
£73: _ . ii? 3‘ _ -
will bo fitly represented and celebrated at
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.
°velties of every description are in magnificent abundance, and no stone bas been left unturned to make an altogether
unprecedented show of
°ia:oicE c-ooids.
p -
OUr goods are CHOICE, our prices are likewise LOW, and the seeker after EASHION combined with ECONOMY will find
his or her end attained by patronising
WHOM HORDERN AND SONS,
9
HAIMAEKBi’ ONLY.
a
BjlAom
Yes, and the only ones nearer than the great cities of the OLD W ORLD. Such are
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
and for the purpose of making UNIVERSAL PROVISION for the good folks of Australia was
Palace
tl) that is, ANTHONY HORDERN and SONB, CLOTHE the people, SHOE the people, and EURNIBII the
j • eo ple. We likewise provide the people with everything that can possibly help to make HOME attractive and LITE
fact > the PALACE EMPORIUM is noth ng if not
The Palace of the People.
HOBDERN & SONS
Palace Emporium, Hay market only,
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.


* ' *-■■ *>■- '■■
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and C 0. 9
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OFVINO 13EAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
-Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &e.
10F" Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Black smithing,
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
®f every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Qas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
mm AGGORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
mmm
inwnnw*
%
Em
m*
R f H
Ki
A Derangement off the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THU
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
ZfcTEKTTOTJ'S
STSTEM.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DH. J. HAYDOCZ,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-malcer and blood-purifler of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
the action of the liver, these subßtances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
by a large vein, called the Hepstie vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz.; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
Headache in front of head.
Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to ehow functional derangement the . ar now comes the
great importance of any error made as to the condition of the patten*. He should immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
.mooting the atti of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called It
Dr. Haydock’s Haw Liver Pill (Sugar Dialed.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, Goneral Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial oontains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Prioe Twenty-Five Cents,
yen sale by alb Druggists.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad-
dress on receipt of 85 cunts. Five vials for $l.OO. BUT AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY.
C AUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pikds, observe that the signature of J. H. Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market, any scep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
CALLAGHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 6EORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIBB A SPECIALITY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayencb, Paris, and Brussels.
|sr LARGEST STOCK ~IN THE COLONIES,
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104. KING STKEET, SYDNEY.
9
XO7 Fitt-stre©t,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
VST LUNCHEON AND .BIFRIBHMBNT BOOMS FOB LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
(J.
BOBBBTB. K. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMBRS. B. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS)
IS, MW, UD 100
Importers ol
flT3^*^T^?i N ??’ T ? INGINE]EH8 ’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
AND_OTHER CONTRACTORS* PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMFTjEg,
3. and WINDING PLANT, PUMPB, COACHBUILDJw 4 ®
flflDT 4TP oatt a mnrnmnt orrTiDTTnO 1./^
MINING, CRUSHING, auu „ih ruft«x, ru m ro, \svjj
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IKON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTB. and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
jprfjfr
6RISCD
GINKS
ZONTAL
ffii
rb a ¥
PUMPS
fP'By
mr Price Llflta and Catalogues furnisned on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO*
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I T ~uplement Yard
BuiA Stoiea
London OflM
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING »
STDNBT:
. - - a s&AcnOHUBOH vtt**’
Alex. Borthwick.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. W j
2SI Q-eoxgre-st., S3rd.^'
OFFORD & GO ’S HA'
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest. c{
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George J
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is,
Asiatic Liniment, 3s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
ur. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 3j. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SBUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COW^ t s ET
MARSHALL BRQ?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z AB ETW S T
‘(-■lect /-iv-yu
WITH AI
NEWEST D
HIGHEST
LOWEST
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
98".
r!
99“?
L!“
d
u" '
vx
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, Lj
uH.S
ESTIMATED FOB-
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
”4.1
2 an”.
2. «ma M
m
f!.
<??
be found J
LlFE,’’forthe speedy cure o ay
Lost Manhood, Despon«* e fr e e '
this book will be sent P° 6


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 151 -New Merles.
SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1886.
Frio*—ea.
Protection and Wages.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1886.
Mr. A. Forsyth, who is an active Protec-
tionist, is somewhat staggered by the inop-
portune development of his own creed
which recently came to light in a trades’
meeting. The operatives assembled stated
that in the much-to-be-desired event of a
patriotic duty being placed upon articles
such as their industry produces locally they
would consider themselves entitled to de-
mand an increase of wages at the same rate.
If by “ the same rate ” the operatives meant
“ a corresponding rate,” we think they are
quite right, and we find Mr. Forsyth’s in-
dignation rather entertaining. It is cer-
tainly instructive. It had been cus-
tomary for employers of labour in colo-
nial manufacturing establishments to
head Protectionist agitations, and where
they have succeeded in getting their
principles adopted by the State, as in Vic-
toria, the voting power has been largely
derived from their own hired hands, and
from people who looked to be hired, sooner
or later, in local factories. The most effica-
cious cry has always been that Protection
improves the condition of the working
class. Now, this either means that it im-
proves his wages, or it means nothing that
any working-man need care about—or, for
the matter of that, would oare about. Yet
here we find a Protectionist factory-owner
scandalised and knocked all in a heap be-
cause at a trades’ meeting employees ex-
press an intention of taking the realisation
of that part of the benefits of Protection
into their own hands. Mr. Fobsyth makes
no disguise of his conviction that Protection
On the§§ conditions would not be worth
hkving. tie points out, truly enough, that if
Operatives through existing trades organi-
sations raise wages by a per centage
equal to the rate of Protective duty, it will
deter faotory owners from enlarging their
plant and appliances. In fact, they won’t
attempt to extend their business. Mr. For-
syth is admirably frank and candid. He is
“desirous that wages may be maintained at
their present rates,” and he is solicitous that
“ employment may be provided for many
that otherwise would be idle but for the
imposition of a 10 per cent, duty on goods
suitable for production here.” He is quite
clear that such a duty will fail in increasing
both employment and wages at the same
time.
* * *
We hope this is plain enough, Mr. Em-
ployer Forsyth’s dream of Protection is a
system which shall enable him to
treble, or quadruple his business, and pocket
'the whole 10 per cent, added by Protective
'duties to the selling value of the wares he
deals in. This gives away the favourite
Protectionist popular cry altogether. The
prosperity of the wording class is clean out
'of it, so far as Mr. Forsyth’s demonstration
goes. He reckons that colonial factory
'owners will employ lots more hands. The
benefit to existing labourers will be con-
fined to the purely sentimental joy of hav-
ing a numerous brotherhood of co-em-
ployees. The present hands will not be a
sixpence the richer in pocket—they will
merely enjoy a wealth of company.
® • «
The points raised by Mr. Forsyth flash
'With an illumination which is positively
electric. The antagonistic merits of Protec-
tion and Freetrade have been discussed dur-
ing 50 years without any absolute settle-
ment having been arrived at. By this we
mean that no scientific demonstration of a
concrete kind, such as the solution of a
problem in euclid, or an equation in algebra
has been effected. Each theory has had
able and convincing exponents. That is
to say, exponents who satisfied all whose
interest coincided with the views advocated,
or who believed their interests so to coin-
cide. But there have been no conversions.
People have been Protectionists or Free-
traders not in heterogeneous divisions
defined by mental idiosyncrasies as is partly
the case—eliminating the accident of birth
and nationality—with regard to religion.
Let a man’s commercial or industrial situa-
tion be stated, and his economic convictions
can be deduced with almost absolute cer-
tainty. In New South Wales, for example,
the mercantile class, mostly impoiters, is
for Freetrade to a man. The members of
that class have the arguments against Pro-
tection at their fingers’ ends. To accuse
C. E. JONES, M.L.A, OF VICTORIA.
them of ; dishonesty or disingenuousness
would be an injustice. Their faculties are
so dominated by their interests that they
are incapacitated from dispassionate and
impartial reasoning on this subject. They
wish to believe Freetrade the only sound
economic policy, and consequently their
minds assimilate and absorb every argu-
ment which tends to justify their
desires, while counter-arguments knock
at the doors of their intelligence in
vain. And, with factory owners, the
case is just the same, only inverted.
They wish Protection to be a demonstrably
good policy; they gather together and
dwell upon all arguments in its favour and
cavil at all which contravene these precon-
ceptions. It is absurd to pretend, as the
Freetrade organs constantly do, that that
system has a superiority so commanding, so
clear, and so easy of demonstration that all
Protectionists are either fools or rogues.
And it is equally absurd for Proteotionists
to allege, as they habitually do, that Free-
traders are persons without intelligence,
slaves to precedent, and swayed entirely by
self-interest. The intelligence is equal on
1 oth sides, and the honesty is equal. In-
terest governs each and beclouds the facul-
ties of each in equal degree.
* * *
Thus we have colonists separated on this
question by interests—real or supposed—and
not by any intellectual distinction or ad-
hesion to principles. Importers consider
that Protection would cripple their busi-
ness, and a large section of citizens who
depend directly or indirectly for employ-
ment upon importers show their apprehen-
sions and echo their Freetrade sentiments.
Manufacturers, like Mr. Forsyth, to a man
perceive that Protection would make their
fortunes, and their workmen, and attaches
generally stand by them and participate in
their views, more or less. But the claim now
advanced by these adherents to participate
likewise in the benefits of Protection is a
staggerer. The ideal of the leading Protec-
tionist is the imposition of duties which will
enable him to sell more goods either at the
same price, as at present, or at an enhanced
price, other conditions remaining unaltered.
Thus, if a factory-owner can employ 100
hands while trade is free, and turn over
£lOO,OOO per annum, netting 10 per cent, as
clear profit, and a duty of 20 per cent, be
placed upon all importations of the wares he
manufactures, he can look with confidence to
doubling, trebling, or quadruplicating his
business. He will lay down more plant, and
employ two, three, or four hundred extra
hands. His turn over will mount to
£200,000, £300,000, or £400,000, and if he
continues to sell at former rates, he will
have two , three, or four times the amount
of profits, according to the increase in his
business. But he can raise his selling prices
up to the point where, to go further, would
neutralise the prohibitive effect of the duty;
and in that case he might net 20 per cent,
profit, or even 26 per cent., in lieu of 10 per
cent. Clearly, such a manufacturer would
become very wealthy, and Protection would
have proved most beneficial to him. And,
further, it would have been good for many
others. Let us suppose that in the city of
Sydney, for example, Protective duties were
placed upon a variety of articles “suitable
for production,” existing factories would
extend their operations—new industries
would spring into existence. There would
be a scarcity of labour, and wages would
rise, whether capitalists liked it or not. But as
capitalists, as a class, are of the same way of
thinking with Mr. Forsyth, and deem it
quite outrageous that labour should expeet
to share in their prosperity, and as highly
paid employment attracts labour, there
would be a rapid influx of population.
Moreover, it would be so directly the capi-
talists’ interest to have plenty of competi-
tive labour to cut down wages, that immi-
gration would be stimulated by every pos-
sible art. The entire trading community
would support the capitalist. For Protect
tion would be enormously beneficial to the
middle men—the shopkeeping class, and to
the property-owning class. With redundant
employment, and increasing population
there would be prosperity for grocers and
bakers and butchers, and hnndreds of
tradesmen of different kinds; and there
would be a steady increase in the demand for
house-room, and, consequently activity in
the building trades and the land-sale busi-
ness. Real estate, which at present seems
disposed to languish, would revive, and
the scene of the protected indus-
tries would be one of bustling prospeiity.
Despite all that working men could do,
assisted immigration would be revived. For
without increased population only working
men would be benefited by Protection,
They would be able to do what they evi-
dently contemplate: viz , gobble up all the
profit; or, at least, they would gobble up as
much as they could extort from the capital-
ist factory-owner without scaring him crat
of business. The country folks would vote
solid for immigration, and in the city the
Freetrade partizans would plump for j|t;
while capitalists, factory-owners, all the
clerical classes, hotelkeepers, and every
sort of tradesman would go straight for
immigration and plenty of it.
* » *
But no conceivable amount of immigra-
tion which would be poured into the coun-
try would prevent altogether the upward
tendency of wages for years to come. If,
however, we look to the end, the prospect is
not satisfactory. We have shown how and
why the present adopt on of a Protective
Tariff would conduce to very great and
widely diffused prosperity in the cities at any
rate. But as all things tend to find their levej
the increase of population, partly by natural
increment and partly by artificial introduc-
tion of people from other countries, would
ultimately assimilate conditions here with
those of older countries. Competition among
workers would set in, and wages would fall,
until, in course of time, Sydney would, like
New York—another “ protected ” capital of
a new country—harbour as much wretched-
ness as London, and the old story be repeated


of the rich becoming richer, and the poor
poorer. There is no abiding virtue in Pro-
tection alone to remove the causes of human
misery. These must be sought deeper, but
careless people will not search for them. It
requires misery to effect revolutions.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Three Cheers for the Queen!”
The offensive loyalty of Mr. Francis Abigail.
M.L.A., and Crick— whoever he may be-ap-
pears somewhat obscure as to details. It is
not obvious, for instance, whether the sentiment
which animates their bosoms, and urges Mr.
Abigail to pour out his little soul in bad spelling,
is personal or political. In other words, these
gushing loyalists have never particularised
whether their admiration and attachment is con-
centrated upon Monarchy as an abstract institu-
tion or upon Mrs. Victoria Guelph as an indi-
vidual. If the latter be presumed to be the case,
the ardour of these loyalists is somewhat incom-
prehensible. There are plenty of good women in
the world who discharge the duties of their
station with as much credit as Queen Victoria
deserves for her part in mundane affairs. There
are wives as true, widows as faithful, mothers as
affectionate, mistresses as considerate, dames a@
charitable. Therefore, if men of the Abigail type
pretend that it is tho virtues of the woman
which inspires them to adoration, they surely go
far afield for an idol. They could, without any
trouble, find plenty of deserving objects to wor-
ship in the same street with themselves. And,
what is more to the purpose, they could certainly
discover among these worthy matrons some so
c'rcumstanced that admiration could find a prac-
tical vent. Mr. Abigail can do nothing for Queen
Victoria. Her Majesty is not affected by any
peculiar bitterness of poverty, and can hardly be
regarded as pursued by a malignant fate-unless
indeed, the devotion of the Abigails of this
generation be regarded as a painful degradation.
But the virtuous matrons next door or so would
afford ample scope for active demonstration of
his devotion to all that is noble in woman. We
venture to assert that ss. given to a poor widow
is worth a whole tumult of “cheers for the
Queen ” The latter is a mere “suspiration
of forced breath.” It costs nothing save
a slight hoarseness, and may avail much
to a public man who reckons upon the Orange
vote. The latter involves a sacrifice of
solid shillings and commands no reward
either in political credit or personal glorification.
If, on the other hand, it be Monarchy in the ab-
stract which enraptures Abigail, we would re-
mind him that no Sovereign in English history has
since George IV. done so much as Queen Vic-
toria to imperil the perpetuance of the institu-
tion he dotes on. We need, in this connection,
merely quote from the S. M. Herald a cablegram
which alleges that the London Standard—
the most influentia', and perhaps the most
rabid, monarchical and Conservative journal
of England had, in a leading article, de-
clared that “ the continued seclusion of the
Queen from public affairs is endangering the
Monarchy.” Cheers for the Queen! What do they
truly signify ? What do Australians know of the
Queen v Why, even Englishmen sc rcely ever see
her. Analyse the bellowing and how much of
genuine, Eelf-sacriflcirg devotion does it portend ?
As much ordinarily as that of Tommy the black-
fellow, who, on receiving his shoddy blanket on
Her Majesty’s birthday, and being prompted to
acknowledge the gift by the regulation bellow,
responded: “ Hip, hip, hurraw I Three cheers for
Kawcen-he's the b —y chap!'’
4.
Let us “ Bathe ”
In an article on Eroude’s “Oceana,” Federa-
tion, a journal running in the interests of the
Imperial Federationists, says:—“ With Mr. Froude
we would have a Btate-supervised and systemati-
cally-directed emigration; open the Order of the
Bath and the Privy Council to Colonists; encour-
age the young men of the Australian and other
colonies to enter the English and Indian Civil
service; and speak and act with consideration and
courtesy towards our fellow-subjecie over the
seas, who are Britons equally with ourselves.”
“ Open the Order of the Bath to the Colonists.”
This unconscious humorist, the patronising Eng-
lish editor-man, rightly estimates the character
of the average colonial Tory, who, after
making 50 per cent, in rum-selling, relinquishes
that ignoble profession in favour of respectable
usury at 100 per cent., and in the afternoon of his
life cultivates Imperialism and the fine-arts. As
Federation rightly supposes, the very first thing
to be done is to get tho bogus Australian aristo-
cracy washed. The editor's final proposition that
Englishmen should speak kindly towards the poor
Australian who is an Englishman after all, though
he may belong to an unfortunate branch ©f the
family, is, considering the family antecedents of
a very stiff proportion of the most prominent
Australian Jingoes, a cruel piece of sarcasm.
Abbott, the Radical.
Mr. J. P. Abbott proposes by amending the Con-
stitution Act to relieve New Bouth Wales of the
ponderous legislative farce of obliging Ministers
to seek re-election at the bands of their consti-
tuents by reason of and upon acceptance of a
portfolio with the appurtenant emoluments. It
is about time that this uselefs requirement of
Constitutional law were swept from the Statute
Book. Its place there is only owing to the fact
that those who made, or rather cribbed, a Consti-
tution for the colony in their fanatical re-
verence for all institutions stamped by anti-
quity, carefully reproduced here ail the abuses
as well as the benefits of the English Legislative
system. Its existence at all can only be ascer-
tained by reference to the time, nearly two cen-
turies since, when an effort was made to relieve
the House of Commons of those Court nominees
who formed then nearly one moieTy of the mem-
bers. Its origin can afford no plea for its present
retention. Sir Henry Parkes is, so far, the only
prominent advocate for the practice of re-election
of Ministers. His defence is an ingenious
one, but hardly sustainable in argument.
He argues that a man may be a good
member, and yet an inefficient Minister, and
that a constituency by electing him as a represen-
tative does not thereby signify approval of his
appointment as a member of a future Cabinet,
i ut as against this, it is clear that the selection of
Ministers does not in any case rest with the con-
stituencies: the electors choose their member
who, in turn indicate, by their votes in Parliament,
their wishes as to the occupancy of the T: easury
Benches. Sir Henry himself would not desire it
to be otherwise, nor would he wish, as his argu-
ments almost seem to prove, that the exist-
ence of a Cabinet should depend upon the
result of a species of plebiscite, confined
to, perhaps, the meanest half dozen electorates in
the colony. Tn practice the custom of Ministerial
election is responsible for a tedious waste of time,
when such waste is most to be avoided, but as far
as any ether effect is concerned, it is impotent save
when it becomes mischievous. When, for instance,
it forced G. H. Reid to retire from the Stuart
Cabinet, its effect was harmful, but it had no power
to prevent the Robertson set of political noodles
and parliamentary farceurs from dragging re-
presentative government through the horse-pond
of ridicule. We confidently believe that we have
seen the last parade of this senseless and vicious
formality, and if other similar useless customs of
antiquity and obsolete institutions—such, for in-
stance, as the Legislative Council—were to be swept
away at the same time, our system of Govern-
ment would be marvellously benefited.
C. E. Jones (Victoria).
Mb. C. E. Jones, M.P., whose photo, appears on
our front page, has had a very chequered career*
Thirty years ago he was carrying on business as a
tailor in a little shop in Spring-street, Melbourne,
but having a passion for politics and a remarkable
gift of speech, he soon took to public life, and at-
tended nearly every political meeting that was
held around Melbourne. He was invited by the
miners of Ballarat to represent them in Parlia-
ment, and being a powerful platform speaker he
had no diffioulty in getting elected. He was con-
spicuous in Parliament by his unceasing and able
advocacy of Radical principles, and it was in these
stirring times that Democracy in the Southern
colony began to make its grandest development.
He was Minister for Railways in Sir James M‘Cul-
loch’s second Ministry, and his administration of
that office was characterised by vigour and
ability. Sixteen years ago he made a com-
pulsory and inglorious exit from Parliamen-
tary life, and visited the United States, where
he passed through many vioissitudes, earning a
living at one time sawing wood, and at another time
as a public lecturer. While in America he mad 9 a
big reputation as an orator, and was the
guest of several leading politicians there,
and of Brigham Young, of Salt Lake
City. Four years ago he returned to Vio-
toria and started a little democratic paper called
the People's Tribune, which he now runs. In
February, 1883, he contested Ballarat where he on
previous occasions lowered the sails of such strong
politicians as the Hon. Duncan Gillies, and the
Hon. W. M. K. Yale. The result of this contest in
’B3 was that he polled 1712 votes, tieing Mr. J. R.
Fincham for the third seat, which was given to
the latter by the Returning Officer. On the sth
March last, he again stood for Ballarat, and se-
cured 2465 votes which placed him second on the
poll to the popular W. Collard Smith, notwith-
standing the fact that he was bitterly opposed by
the Metropolitan Press, and the Coalition Ministry.
He is now an aspirant for the abandoned mantle of
Mr. Grahsm Berry. He is an exceedingly well-
read and well-informed man, a staunch democrat,
Protectionist, and land-nationaliser, and is the
f most humorous and eloquent member in the Vic-
torian Legislature. Mr. Jones has made arrange-
ments to deliver three lectures in the New Masonic
Hall, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, on the 10th, 12th,
and 15th April, his subjects being “Gariield and
Lincoln,” “The Mormons,’" and “Parliamentary
Sketches.” He enjoys the reputation of being the
cleverest lecturer in Australia.
Thi Ratss or Subscription to Thi bullitiw
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12a. 6d.;
Quarter, 6a. 6d.—ln advance.
Th* Advbrtisinq Rams are sa. per inohi
special positions in the paper 7a. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Ml, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Mr. Harry Stookdale is an explorer, and
some lime ago left behind him in the West Aus-
tralian bush two members of his party—Ashton, a
young English new-chum, and Patrick Mulcahy,
an Irish-Australian. In a letter to the Sydney
Evening News, Mulcahy’s wife was permitted by
the editor to allege that Stookdale left her hus-
band and Ashton to die when they became ex-
hausted and could not prooeen any further.
Stookdale sued the News for £lO,OOO libel damages,
last week, and was awarded £5OO by the jury, he
having put in evidence a diary containing written
admissions by the men that they voluntarily
stayed behind; he also produced testimony to the
effect that when he lett them they were in good
health and spirits, and well provided with neces-
saries. The defence substantially consisted of a
suggestion that the men—who almost beyond
doubt are dead—might have been coerced into
writing the diary-entries; and a young woman
(whose principal statements were denied by
plaintiff’s witnesses) deposed that one of
Stockdale’s party told her that they had
abandoned Ashton because he was done-up,
and that he was ‘last seen by them crying at
the foot of a tree. From the verdict it is to lie
presumed that the jury believed Stookdale and
party, t and discredited the evidence and the
theories implied! by the defence. Some very
strange evidence was put forward in the case.
For example, it was alleged that Mulcahy was an
opium-eater or smoker, whereas his relatives
denied all knowledge of such a predilection on his
part. The verdict of the jury finally settles the
matter so far as earthly courts are concerned; and
as there seems no chance for an appeal It is likely
that the contradictory evidence and the conflicting
speeches of counsel will never again be sifted till
the wilderness shall give up its dead. During the
trial, when the Chief Justice was making enquiries
about the country travelled by the expedition
under Mr. Stockdale, Mr. Simpson, plaintiff’s bar-
rister, drew the attention of his Honor to the fact
that there was a place called Martin s Range
named after himself. Sir James Martin, however,
was successful, if he felt at all inclined to be
flattered, in suppressing any signs of appreciation
or edification, and his only answer was—“ not to
put too fine a point on it ”—a grunt.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Qorretpondente Who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
municationi noticed.!
“John Francis” (Marrickville): Your ig-
norance touching the origin of the phrase, “ gone
over to the great majority,” as applied to the
dead, is perfectly excusable. Not more than 1 per
cent, of those who so glibly mouth the words
know any more about their origin than the dead
themselves do. The line is evidently a translation
of the old Roman sepulchral formula, abierunt ad
multos, but the idea is finely put in an old play,
Dr. Young’s “ Revenge,” in which Alonzo,
addressing ZaDga, says:—
“Life is the desert: life the rolitude;
Death joins us to the great majority:
’Tis to be born to Platos and to Crasars,
’Tis to be great for ever.”
Think of that, John Francis, and die. For when
you do die you will be recompensed for the loss of
the hifalutin’ bunkum of the superficial D alley by
the sounds of the God-like wisdom of Plato, and
when you drop your well-used knife and fork at
an Anniversary Day picnic in the Blysian Fields,
you will lie back and listen to the terse, telling
oration of a Caesar instead of the blatant blather-
skite of a Dan. O’Connor. John, here’s a
pint of arsenic—let us die together. Or—
better still—you drink the lot and then
send us a “ wire ” if the Platos and Caesars
are still in the picnic-oration business
"Eques”: Your informant is an ass. All circus
rings are and must be the same diameter, 42ft.
Some years ago, when Myers’ Circus was perform-
ing at the Crystal Palace the entertainment was
found, to the surprise of all the artists, to go
badly. Crack rid ers fell off, the horses were out
of time, and it was not until a smart tent-man dis-
covered the ring to be 2ft. larger than it should
have been that the cause was ascertained
“C.J.”: No; but from the fact that Mr. Butter-
worth, barrister-at-law, has been lecturing at Bur-
rowa on “ The present state of public affairs,” it
is tolerably plain that he entertains towards the
constituency political intentions of as honourable
a character as are consistent with the fact of hiB
being a lawyer “Cobar”: The gentleman’s
name is not Luke Jackass. It is John Lucass
“ Shaughraun” (Wickham, N.S.W.): The insertion
of your paragraph would certainly cause a “ run ”
on The Bulletin. A run into ga01.....“ Lance
L.”: One not strong enough for so hackneyed a
theme; the other recalls a well-known Yankee
parody in same strain “A.G.” (Tamworth):
Ten 2001 b. bags of flour make one trade ton
“C.J.”:The blathering person named was ex-
pelled the institution by a vote of the members.
We don’t know whether he was foroibly
ejeoted from the grounds in question for having
tried to create adisturbanca “ C.F.S.” (Melb.).
Thanks “J. M’Namara ”: Yes, Parnell was
imprisoned; his incarceration was terminated by
the historical “Kilmainham compact.” “Mary
W.” (Wagga Wagga): Your poem is an illuminated
address-gas-illuminated. You ask, “Oh where
does beauty linger?” Well, Mary, we are always
in from 10 o’clock till 3 p.m “T.O.J.R. ”: To
find our opinion of your verse subtract your
third initial and then read backwards. Will write
if you send address. Your metre is good, but as
you start without a theme, the production is
fathoms below par “Melbourne”: Miss Mel-
ville played Mrs. Stofel in “ Struck Oil ” at
Sydney Theatre Royal in March, 1884
“Chutnee”: Not this week. Nor any week
“ Wan ”: Thanks. Will probably use... “ Camera ”:
You do not “take well” with u5....“C.CN.”:
The only humorous part of your letter is the
request of payment for the sketches. Why, plenty
of the Sydney Sketching Institute men could do
better work than that, while a drunken coal-
heaver with a piece of coal and kerbstone would
knock your performance into impalpable atoms...
“Thespis”: Perusal of your letter has caused so
heavenly an expression to rest upon our features
that whenever we venture into the street the un-
employed besiege us for “ temporary assistance.”...
“ A.E.T.”: How do we like your lyric poem ? We
don’t like it any how. It is not a peem, and would
not be lyric if it were “ W.W.”: There must be
a stamp for each payment on account—“ Jelly
Fish ”: You s ay you send us your very worst. If
you wish us to accept you must send the best.
Your worst not nearly good enough “Sydney
Fireman ”: In a polite and gentlemanly way you
offer to “wipe the flure ” with us, because we are
unable to see why free-passes to Albury should
have been provided on March 7th for those firemen
who were going to a grand competition in Victoria
somewhere. Now, if you will take a soda and
then put your head under the pump, you will see
that our little comment did not mention free-
passes, except to admit that they might properly,
perhaps, be given. Our objection is to the
entirely unnecessary expense of a special train—
“P.H.”: The more moderate tone of your letter
adds force to your argument. You say: “Your
swagman an! labourer turns Socialist booause he
cannot understand the wonderful facts he reads
of,” &o. Yes, but all Socialists are not poor men.
Very many rioh men now subscribe to this creed,
and see in its support the best prospect for the
future prosperity of the nation. You are inclined,
we should tbiak, to concentrate your gaze on the
crowning stones of the national edifice—Royalty
and the Peerage. Did It never occur to you to
study the working of the Constitution by examin-
ing the lowest c ourses of the structure? Spend a few
days inspecting the homes of the paupers, the re-
fuges of the indigent, and thon we think you will
be less inclined to devote so much of your sym-
pathy to the drones of the human hive—“ H.J.”
(Parramatta): We were sighing for a fire-fringed
poem oa some exciting current subject when, wel-
come as a legacy from a great aunt, your poem on
Waterloo met our enraptured gaze. You have
selected a subject that has been treated by many
pens, but viewed through the lens of your verse,
re-appears in a totally new light. You have all
the creative power of a poet; you create circum-
stance, metre, rhyme, and language. The result is
—well, these three verses will save us the trouble
of explaining:—
“The foe the woods northwards to Brussels hell,
But the bullets of the ally quickly telled,
Adesu’tory fire up the enemy kept; but soon,
On a ghastly sight shone the moon.
A faint voice was heard from amidst the bush,
Our hearts of iron were melt, there lying in a pool
of slush,
With mangled form and ghastly face one of the
foe,
Eatreatedly! with gestic signs! Bad cries, you
know.
Not a drop! a drop have I tasted this day,
A llask from my side t ungirt, I to him made way,
As of mad desire, he ravenously it drunk.
Then, seizing his musket at us fired, the skunk.”
You say you wrote all this in your leisure time.
We thought as much, for “Satan finds”—you
know all the rest. You ask for our opinion. This
we refuse to deliver until we have re-furbished
our vocabulary of profanity —“H.Y.” (North
Shore): No, he is quite another Hopkins—F.R.C.
of that ilk E J. 8.”: We may as well give the
figures in full, from the “ Official Army List ” of
December last. The following is the
Strength of the Regular Forces of the
British Army (Corrected to December 8,1885): -
Household cavalry .. .. 1,302'
Cavalry of the liue .. .. 15 926
Royal artillery 33 374
Royal engineers 6,394
Foot guards 5,895 [ PftM
Infantry of, the line .. .. 132,673 ra a *
Departmental corps, commis-
missariat, &c 8,927
Total 204,491.
No. of horses—Cavalry, artillery, and trans-
port, 23,720.
Of the above forces, 61,597 are serving in India;
and 42,476 In the colonies—North America, Cape,
Mauritius, &e.—and Egypt. The following Is the
Strength of the Militia of Great Britain:—
Artillery militia 19,650
Engineer „ 1449
Infantry „ 116,239
Yeomanry cavalry .. .. 14 405 V pi. a , y
Channel Islands 3.996 raia *
Total militia forces .. 155,739 j
Strength of the Yolunteer Forces of Great
Britain, December 8, 1885:
Light horse 425'
Mounted rifle 6L
Artillery 44 322
Engineer 10.675
Rifle (infantry) ; 195,178 Unpaia -
Medical staff corps .. .. 405
Total volunteer forces .. 250 966 J
Grand total—Regular, militia and volunteer forces
-611,196, of which 97,346 are artillery.
Ad. fromS.M. Herald “ For sale, two
horses, Surry-street, Darlinghurst, each containing
six rooms, kitchen, &?.; water and gas laid on;
rents £l2O per annum; pries, £l3OO. Apply 18 Dar-
llnghurst-road.” A splendid chanee Is here pre-
sented for explorers, surveyors, or young couples
about to furnish.
A London Tory parson recently wrote:—" Mr.
Gladstone will bring the country to ruin and die
<n a madhouse. That he has almost acosmplisbed
the first, I firmly believe; the seoond is in the
hands of an outraged God. I have 10,000 poet
starving through Mr. Gladstone’s statesmanship.”
Dr. Norman Macleod, Queen Victoria’s favour-
ite preacher, was a pronounoed gourmand. "Doc-
tor,” said to him Dan. Machee, the artist, “ You
should wear a tartan waistcoat.” “Why, Dan.?”
enquired the unsuspicious clergyman. "Because,”
retorted Machee, “ it would be a cheek on your
stomach.” Llddiard, under committal for the
brutal Wardell murder, who tried to suicide by
cutting an arm-vein, "is considered out of
danger.” This, however, is not the hangman’s
opinion.
Marbles are out, as many a weary mother
knows to her joy, and the very latest game in-
vented Is called “ The Horse Sale.” One boy
takes the role of auctioneer, another the horse-
owner, and all the rest, bar one, stand round as
bidders, and enjoy the fun. The part of the horse
must be played by a boy who knows nothing
whatever about the business. Ignorance is
essential for this as it is for a Civil service bale**
All thiDgs being arranged, the boy-herse
oirefully blindfolded, one end of a rope istieo
to one of his ankles, and then, unknown to him
the other end is made fast to the door-knob of tne
most irascible man about the neighbourhood.
The sale then commences in the orthodox fashioni
and when the biddings have topped the reserve,
the boy-horse is literally “ knooked down,” ana.
of course, the door-knob is considerably influenceu
by the action. In the twinkling of a duck s tooi
the gleeful gang are across the street gazing in-
tently at the fun. For an obvious reason, how-
ever, the boy-horso remains where he is, andJr
he dances round on one leg, he involuntarily hW“"
mers away at the door in a state calculated
wake a whole pyramid full of Egyptian mummies*
This naturally leads the hot-headed householder
to infer that he is wanted on urgent business,
he accordingly sallies out with fire in his eyes,
and a yard of a stick in his hands. The last act o
the game is then played, and it frequently follow
that the boy-horse takes his meals standing up.
and sleeps faoe downwards for several wee*
after. Boys will be boys, however, and the 0=“
plan to tempt them from their mischievous war
is to take them along to Summerfleld and 00.
and treat them to cheap, but fir&t-clafs sun
clothing.*
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no o< her.
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.


The Sorcerer.
PRESTER FRAWNCIS HABIG AIL’S ONLY HOPE: THE RESURRECTION OF THE KIAMA GHOST.
“ Mr. Abigail M.L. Abecause, on St. Patrick’s Day, at Botany, they didn’t Cheer the Queen, is going to ask what Parliament means to do with the Ministers and members who
were present on the occasion.”


Personal
Items
Mr. Finlayson, the Victorian mining bai ris-
ter, got 500 guineas for appearing in the Mount
Morgan case at Brisbane.
Vanity Fair has an article, “Things at
Cannes.” And yet nothing is said about Henniker
Heaton, Who was then at Cannes.
On Lady C.’s arms gleamed, says a loyal
contemporary, “jewels worth the ransom of a
prince.” What sort of prince, we wonder ?
It is said that Father Huggard, the R.C.
clergyman, under committal for alleged abduction
at Bourke, has a sensational and complete justifi-
cation to put before the jury.
You all remember the Major Munro who
eloped with Mrs. St. John, Sir Hercules Robinson’s
daughter and female aide. Well, we were just
thinking how beastly miserable he must feel by
this time.
“Humming Bee,”
the lady marmaladist of
the Sydney D.T., is get-
ting on. Lady Carington
is now “our own Queen
of beauty,” and the Hon*
Miss Judith Harbord
dainty and sweet.” This
seems to have evidently
come over from Mel-
bourne—in pots. No won-
der, since the fulsome
Franklyn no longer re-
quires it!
Wo have just been
having a look at the Car-
coar Chronicle, which,
as the world knows, is
edited by a lady, and are
bound to say we are
disappointed with the ap-
pearance of that journal.
Why, behold 1 here is the
lady’s husband a mem-
ber for the district, and
we can’t detect in the
Chronicle a single Go-
vernment ad. 1 But more
than this, we miss those
sweet little feminine
things about lost scraps
of “blue ribbon” and
scandal, that used erst
to delight us. Lancelot’s
name is in the imprint
and he ought to improve
things. The only redeem-
ing point in the paper,
indeed, is the leader. This
par. on Mr. Dibbs, we con-
sider, verges upon great-
ness:—“The least harm
that Mr. Dibbs ever did in
his life was during his
12 months’so journ in Dar-
linghurst. Not that we
advocate his incarcera-
tion in that overcrowded
retreat, but it is not
many years ago since
political crimes such as
his would have necessi-
tated a protracted sever-
ance of the head from the
body, no matter how firm
the mutual attachment.”
By this we infer that
Lancelot intends under-
taking, in Carcoar, a pro-
tracted editorship.
The A.M.P Society
is the greatest life-office
in the world, and, bar-
ring its Yankee can-
vasser, the greatest of
its institutions is its best
known lecturer, Alfred
Allen. He always travels
with a “duly qualified”
who wears gloves, and is
surrounded by a beauti-
ful odour. They require
no drum—not theyl-nor
a coachman in gaiters
who blows the French
horn in several keys. Oh,
dear no! Alfred came
to our part once, with a
No. 8 doctor and a No.
82 smile. We were Mayor
of the town at the time,
and an uncle of our’s was
clerk of petty sessions.
And what do you think
Mr. A. did ? Hardly any-
thing. He didn’t even
dress the doctor! up in
green velvet with gold
braid, Not a bit of it. Al-
fred took a hall and gave
a lecture for his society,
reviewing life assurance
from the early days when
the ancient Britons used
to stain themselves with
a plant called woad, and
tickling his audience so
that it was reported there
was such a run on the
“ duly-qualified ” at the
hotel, next day, that the
society’s papers running
out at an early stage,
Sout two-thirds of the
Izens had to consent to
be taken on dog-forms.
“On their wedding-tour,” says a little
Melbourne paper in a matrimonial announcement,
"the happy pair took in Masterton, Branchpeth
Hawkes Bay, and Le Matiai.” Took in. We are
really sorry for the hotelkeepers.
Yooey Taylor, member of the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, has just entered his 65th
year, and “ revels in the fact that he has lived all
his life in Parramatta.” Truly a nice condition of
mind for a man within five years of three-score
and ten.
From a “.Chancery list” forwarded to this
office from England we see that large fortunes
belonging to persons named Smith and Cohen
await claimants in the Courts, There are about
three Smiths and at least two Cohens in this
Country.
The young Lord Dudley, who, the cable
told us some weeks ago, was coming to Australia
in his yacht, will have £50,000 a year. Each of his
brothers will have £lOO,OOO down and each of his
sisters £50,000 down. Lady Dudley, his mother,
has now only her fortune of £9OOO a year. Young
Dudley is being sent abroad, as he has taken a
fancy to a more or less penniless girl, much about
the Court, some seven years his senior.
The members of Sydney School of Arts
have managed to carry Mr. Stephenson’s motion
that Mr. E. Lewis Scott h j “forfeited the con-
fidence of the committee.” This is the first time
we knew that helever possessed it. Lewis is now
called upon to resign, but we consider it im-
probable that he will do so. After a certain
interesting event recorded in the S.M. Herald
Of the 22nd inst., it will not be as easy, we predict,
to “ sit on” Lowis, as for Lewis to sit upon his
hair.
There is a lady, in Chili, with an income
of £16,000 a month. Now that all this little bother
is over about the Kempsey election, and he is
able to once more devote his attention—shed,
rather the halo of his graciousness on a system'.be
so eloquently adorns. . . . The mystery of his
lengthened bachelorhood is now explained. No-
body could have expected him under the figure;
and, having seen the portraits of the lady, we are
glad to be in a position to state, that there is
beauty on both sides.
The editor, &e.,. of the South Gippsland
(Vic.) ExPress has not got much time on his hands
now the days are shortening. He stated in court
the other day—when defending himself against a
charge of libel—that he was editor, manager, and
compositor of the raging sheet which enlightens
the potato-miners of Southern Gippsland. When
run close he occasionally set up articles out of his
head without having written them at all. We
don’t wonder that a little vituperation sneaked in
under these circumstances.
David Henry, the shixty per shenter, who
a few years ago was convicted of embracery in
Melbourne, and very properly sent to gaol for a
couple of years or so, tried very hard while “in
the logs ”to make out that he was dying. But he
wasn't dying; he is still very much alive, and
judging from the fact that he the other day man-
aged to get property stated to be worth £5OO from
a woman to whom he advanced between £lOO and
£2OO only, it is quite plain that Mr. David Henry,
usurer, is just about as good as new.
Thursday’s Rain.
Mr. Speaker Groom, of the Queensland
Legislative Assembly, told a bazar-ful of people
at Toowoomba the other day that “ those who
profess the Roman Catholic religion are the best
fellows out.” Coming from Mr. Groom this an-
nouncement should be gratifying to the adherents
of the old faith througnout all Australia. The
only strange thing about the announcement is
that it appears to exclude himself from the band
of best fellows, for Mr. Groom is not a Catholic,
and is, as everybody is aware, “ out.”
Old Ranke’s 90fch birthday has produced a
grand revival of anecdotes. In 1870, when Thiers
was flitting round the Courts of Europe to implore
help for France, he fell in, at Vienna, with the
illustrious chronicler of Papacy. “Napoleon is
prostrate; with whom are you still at war?”
angrily said the little French statesman. “ With
Louis Quatorzel” replied Ranke. Every school-
boy,” of course, knows that Alsace belonged to
the German Empire until that magnificent fraud,
Louis XIV., intrigued it into his net.
His Grace the Duke of Buckingham and
Chandos entered a blue-blooded protest against
his last inoome-taxpapsr. The ancestral mansion
of Wotton was assessed at a rental of £2OO, an ad-
vance of £45 upon the previous assessment. Even
the higher figure was ridiculously inadequate, but
the haughty peer protested, nevertheless. Need
we mention that the Bating Board struck off the
odd £45. Thus had the Duke effected an annual
saving of something like 22l 6d. And these are
the]people whom the Australians are told to adore.
In the late railway accident Mr. Meeks,
M.P., escaped with a few bruises, chiefly, it is for-
tunate to chronicle, in the immediate region of
the brain. Had the hon. member’s injuries oc-
curred “ in another place,” the Legislature of the
country might have had to mourn a tinsmith; the
tin trade an orator. Mr. Meeks, we contend,
should have more, thought of his value to the
country. There is, perhaps, no public speaker
since the O’Fianagan who could repeat himself with
such grace, seven times in three minutes, as the
hon. member alluded to.
Lord Capel may now be daily expected
to join Lord Carington’s brilliant Court at Sydney.
There is, consequently,'much speculation in aristo-
cratic circles as to what he will be like. We have
been so disappointed in the appearance of im-
ported noblemen recently that we really are
almost afraid to hazard a conjecture. What we
should like to see in the new aide would bea young
man whose feet have not hopelessly outgrown
him, and whose brain-power had began to exhibit
signs of, at least, preliminary development. But
go to I what golden dream is this ?
In England the nobility have taken to
going to gaol, and to writing for the papers, and
doing other vulgar things. Among the writers is
one Lady Constance Howard, who thus discourses
in Society:—“No one who loves flowers would
think of ‘wiring ’ their tender stalks and fragrant
blossoms; to do so I always! feel must hurt them.”
How sweet, how sympathetic. What bathos I
what bosh I Wonder how the gentle Constance
can bear to hear that the humble radish is occa-
sionally torn from his retirement, salted, deeapi
tated, and eaten; or the unresisting living cabbage
is daily ruthlessly consigned to his cauldron of
soalding water.
Ever since the clean-shaven Governor of
South Australia composed that musical atrocity,
. Unfurl the Flag,” we have had our little mis-giv-
ings about him. We fear they were well-founded.
He appears to have fallen under the mild epell
of Stuart Cumberland, the “thought-reader” for
the wily Stuart has been finding pins at the guber-
natorial residence. We believe that someone hid
a pin in Sir William’s leg, and the wizard (blind-
folded) immediately picked it ont with unerring
instinct. By and bye we shall have him in Sydney
spotting pins and reading people’s thoughts. But
we hope he won’t read Lord Carington's thoughts.
Not aloud, anyway. We might get his Excellency's
real opinion of Burdett, M.P., or G. A. Lloyd.
Thanks to the example of Bishop Moor-
house, it is now fashionable for clergymen to
publicly recount the hardships and privations
they have endured for “the Cause.” The
Rev. Mr. Orchard, lately called from Vic-
toria to Maoriland, has roughed it pretty well
as much in his time as James of Manchester. In
his farewell speech he said he had slept in straw-
stacks. under the lee of fences, on the wet ground,
with flood waters raging all round him, and on one
occasion he lodged in a farmer’s stripper. This
last item makes us doubt the rev. gentleman’s
grofessional persuasive abilities. Had he been
alf as eloquent as most of the divines we know,
he’d have talked the agriculturalist into lending
his bed to the Lord, and dossing in the stripper
himself.
Toswill is the name of a temperance
gentleman in N.Z., who recently presented a
petition to the Lincoln Licensing Committee to
closo hotels at 10 p.m. The name of the man is
more striking than his plea. That Toswill should
be a “ demperancer ” is an inoongrulty. a
verse:—
To drink the rioh red juice of the grape,
Was never a sin, Toswill,
And never by rule, or line, or tape,
Will a man be bound, Toswill;
Let the closing hour of the pubs, be ten,
Or eight, or seven, Toswill,
You will never bandage the mouths of men
When they want a drink, Toswill:
And we, who warble this little rhyme,
Would argue this way, Toswill,
If “ publics ” were opon all the time
No more would be swilled, Toswill.
One Visoount Hinton, who, it aeems, is
heir-apparent to Earl Poulett, oonceived a fancy
for orderiog guns, and for subsequently pawning
them. His lordship was arrested for this little
game with the guns, and though given a week iu
which to provide £250 bail, was unable to furnish
it. The era, we see, is f ast approaching when the
loyal Abigail will have to pay the Duke of West-
minster’s 403. fine ia order to save Imperialism
and the aristocracy. Lord Hinton, by the way.
was lately a star comique at a London music-hal l ,
and, according to the Liverpool Mercury, he
has lately been engaged as a clown in a Surrey
pantomime. Lord Hinton’s name would look well
on the bills, and were he to continue the pursuit
of his honourable profession after his accession to
the peerage his sucoess would be immense. What
crowds of snobs would rush to see a peer who
took his seat in the gilded chamber at 5, and at 8
appeared on the boards with a hot poker and a
string of sausages!
People seem shocked
that so many deorepid
“rookeries” are the pro-
perty of Dr. M’Laurin,
medical adviser to the
N.B.W. Government.
Pooh! what's that? Why
we know a member of
the Legislature who pos-
sesses a large cheap
grocery, a terrace of
giddy houses, and would
give all of his soul that
e has not already sold
for a pawn-broker’s shop.
Melbourne “society”
has been much distressed
of late. The £lo,ouo voted
for the "dear Governor’s”
country residence at
Mount Macedon isn’t
enough not nearly
enough, bless you. There
was exactly half of the
money available for al-
terations and enlarge-
ment of the building.
However, it seems that
to carry out the plans
" approved by his Excel-
lency,” more coin would
be required, so the Chief
Secretary was under the
delicate necessity of re-
ferring back those plans
to the great man for cur-
tailment. But what we
want to get at is this.
How came it that the
architect drew up plans
which were impractic-
able? We guess Sir Henry
Loch and his good lady
put in that extra little
bit, on the offohancs that
afeeble Government
might shell out some
more of the people’s
money.
We want to keep
the reverend Peter Camp-
bell’s case before the
public. Poor Peter, who
in the full arrogance of
his bush missionary-ship,
used to send us threats
of libel actions from the
howling wilderness
wherein he lived upon
locusts and wild honey,
writes that he is pining
for another glimpse of
the green fields and that
bush wherein he prose-
cuted his missionary la-
bours, in the old happy
days when he wasn’t
married. It is two long
years since Peter went
to Melbourne Gaol in
default of finding sureties
for the maintenance of
his young “ missus,’' and
the monotony of prison
life is beginning to pall
upon him. While the
reverend John Alexander
Dowie was “in” with
him, and the pair could
come to flstiouffs over
theological questions,
Peter was fairly content
with his lot. But now
he wants to get about
again and qualify himself
for a parliamentary
career. That resusci-
tated senator, C. E Jones,
has taken up Peter’s case,
and as soon as the House
gets together in June the
roof will ring with an
eloquent recital of Peter’s
wrongs. When Jones has
freed his client and
Jones is just the man to
do it—he will turn his at-
tention to running him
for the next Parliament-
ary vacancy, and we may
yet hear of the grand old
bush missionary trotting
out a little Bill for the
amendment of the mar-
riage laws and the aboli-
tion of prisons. Jf C. E.
Jones can only give us
back our long lost Peter
we will agree to forget
both their pasts.
Miss Sara M’lntyre is the young Victorian
lady to whom the venerable Marquis of Nor-
manby will shortly be married. This announce-
ment, with truly Providential appropriateness,
appears in Melbourne Punch.
An item of news from “home” reminds
us, alas! that we shall not have Lord Carington
always with us—like the poor. Even while he is
patting our sons of toil upon their backs, and ex-
pressing fervid interest in our public institutions,
we hear of preparations being made for the re-
moval of his Excellency’s London mansion. This
stately edifice is to be shifted—bodily if possible—
to a new site in Whitehall, some 30 yards north-
ward of its present abiding place. Presently, we
must nerve ourselves to read something of this
sort in the “ society ” journals: “ Lord Carington’s
town residence having been satisfactorily moved,
the return of the family to England may be ex-
pected at an earlv date. We understand that his
Lordship has benefited in health by the trip to
Sydney, and is loud in praise of Australia as a
recuperating resort. Entre nous, it is whispered
that her ladyship will bring with her a delicious
little budget of anecdotes anent the eccentricities
of colonial society.”
Archibald Forbes has been jumped on
once again. In a description of his American tour,
he used the expression, “ If, by a surprise of for-
tune, the President happens to be a gentleman.’
This caused the thumper of the Boston Record
to reach for his little club, and here's a sample of
the style he laid about him“ This is quite in the
line of polite comment frequently adopted by the
Englishman who is treated like a gentlemen here,
and feels compelled when he goes home to create
the impression that all our public men are louts*


Without assuming that all our Presidents are
Chesterfields, we may suggest that if In all the list
from the beginning there can be found one man
so devoid of honour, Intelligence, and decency as
the average male members of the reigning House
nf England for the same time, we should like to
hear his name. Our White House has, at least,
neon spared the scandals which desecrate the
nareers of the male descendants of George 111.
The trouble with Archibald Forbes and a good
many other men of his stamp is that a snob is
their ideal of a gentleman.”
There have Been serious heartburnings of
late among certain great people in our midst-
Firstly. Admiral Tryon and his Excellency Lord
Carington are not exactly “ cousins in conse-
quence, it is said, of a difference which they had
in the old world long ago, and which they have
brought with them to the new. Nextly, Sir James
Martin, the N.S.W. Chief Justice, who is a perfect
miser in his avarice of; dignity andfsuch things, is
much annoyed because of the fact that he, for the
verv first time since his elevation to the highest
niace on the colonial Benoh, has to give prece-
dence to the officer commanding the Australian
unuadron. The Queen’s regulations prov de that
when the naval officer in command has the rank
of Admiral he shall have precedence next after
the Governor; in other cases the Chief Justice
shall have such precedence. During the regime of
Commodores Wilson and Erskine (whose rank was
that of captain only) Sir James Martin had second
D i a oe on public occasions; now.that a naval officer
of higher rank has arrived, “ Speak-up Jimmy
has to content himself with third.
Some while back the Pall Mall Gazette
Inveigled a lot of people, Including Ruskln, Swin-
burne, Miss Braddon, and a host of nobodies into
recommending a list of 100 books most suitable for
the library of the Workingmen’s College In Lon-
don The Melbourne Herald— ye gods!-has fol-
lowed suit by soliciting certain local sages to fur-
nish their little lists for the Melbourne W.M.C., an
institution which is as yet In a state of embryo.
Mav it ever remain so. For if the working men of
Victoria are to he regaled upon the literary fare
recommended in the columns of the Herald,
those hardy sons of toil will succumb to a ” dry
rot.” and that library will become a ghastly
morgue. The chances are that David Blair s list
would prove most fatal. The dreary solemnity
with which David entered upon his task would be
funny did we not reflect upon the tragedies it
mav probably bring about. We need not enume-
rate the many hooks which Mr. Blair has ruth-
lessly selected as instruments of torture and of
death. Suffice it to quote his modest footnote—
" I have included my own History of Australia.
« oase, which excited some interest on
account of the prosecutor claiming to be a foreign
nobleman, occupied the Newtown Jcourt for
several hours yesterday before Captain Fisher,
D 8 M. Gustave de Walcherch charged four de-
fendants with having assaulted and robbed him
party on the morning of Sunday, tne 21st lost., at
Bur wood .’’-Daily paper. Just shove along the
Time Payment:—
Hoi Hupper suckles I here’s your chancel
Trot out vour daughters pretty,
A Belgian Count doth fairly prance
Incog, about the city.
The Newtown “ beak ” this “ dook ” has found,
And given the town his story—
Bo now, Potts Point, just rally round,
A count’s a crown of glory.
Ask him to stop six months—a year—
Tell him your daughter's sick
With love for this bold foreigneer
(A countess takes the trick).
And he spit upon the floor,
Or leave off cuffs or stud,
You’d only whisper in rapt awe.
“ How chawming is Blue bludl
Poor old Billy Stevens, the poundkeeper
at Hangiog Rock, N.S.W., “pegged out” last
week after sooriDg 60. Many a good yarn could
the old fellow tell of his early lite farther back,
and one in particular always “fetched” his
audience. A good many years ago, when Steve,”
as he was called then, was on a newly-formed
station, he was engaged in the pastime of cutting
and branding. A big bullock was in the yard, and
Steve, who always swore the beast wasn t born
that could make him “take the cap.” at once
lumped in and started him. The bullock looked
bn with some surprise for a few seconds, and then,
setting his tail straight out, made a rush at bun.
Expecting to turn him with his stick, Steve waited,
and hit at him. The bullOGk dodged, and Steve
turned, hut was too closely followed to try for
the cap. There were no; dodging-posts, and he
had to run the yard while the boys sat on the
fence and laughed till one or two of them had to
hang on by the cap. Three times round Steve had
travelled when, as he strode past the laughiDg
mob, he shouted, intones which scared even his
pursuer, “ You can do what you like with this
cove, chaps”—(another lap) ‘ but by ——‘this is the
last time round." Then they tumbled in and
speedily put the rope on the pursuer, who was
thrown, and his hind legs tied with Billy’s own
whip in less time than Tom Malone could run a
hundred yards. The harp, a verse for poor old
Steve;—
Many worse, and few better, sleep under the sod,
’Neath the grass-covered cone of the grave;
As a man, in the sight of the poorest man s God,
Steve will stand with the true and the brave.
In the worst days of Port Arthur, about
45 years ago, it was the custom for the Governor
of Van Diemen’s Land, Sir John Franklin, to
visit the convict settlement once a year, on which
occasion the men were ranked up in file, and
allowed to present his Excellency with any
petition or complaint. A little previous to one of
Sir John’s visits, a party of most desperate
characters from Cockatoo Island were drafted to
Port Arthur - amongst them being the notorious
Black Douglas, and Jacky Jacky. One Billy
Butters, considered a little soft in the upper-
story, was amongst the other prisoners suffering
a three years’ sentence, and the Cockatoo men got
hold of Billy and prepared for him a speech which
they made him learn by heart, and promised to
deliver to the Governor. The day arrived,
and all hands were mustered. “ Now, men,” said
Captain Booth, “if you have any complaints
or requests to make to his Excellency he will listen
to you.” Billy Butters all this time was bowing
and scraping in the endeavour to catch Sir John
Franklin’s eye, which he presently succeeded in
doing. " Weil, my man, what have you to say ?”
said the Governor. Tne prisoner proceeded:
“ May it please your Axle-Tree (Excellency), you
Left-handed Grubber (Lieutenant-Governor)”—
here the Cockatoo men, who thought the joke a
splendid one, sniggered—“ Will you let I up to
town?” Sir John turned to Booth: “ Who-what
is the man?" "A poor imbecile, your Excellency.”
“ Well, this is no place for him. New Norfolk’s
where he should be.” (Turning round to Billy):
‘ Yes, my man, you shall go to town.” “Thank
your Axle-Tree.” Butters went to town in the
next boat, thence to New Norfolk Asylum, was
discharged in a month as cured, and so got out of
over two years of his sentence.
The late Mr. Charles Isaac Watson, who
died at his residence, Shoalh'woD, on 24th ult., was
born at Windsor, N.S.W., on 4th July, 1829, and was
one of the oldest of Australian pressmen. When
but a few years of age he was left without parents.
He took to printing, was apprenticed at a news-
paper office, where he remained for seven years,
after which he, like many other young colonials,
betook himself to the goldfields and spent some
hard years, swag on back, at Bendigo and other
places When 25 years of age he started the
Australian at Windsor; subsequently he went
to the famous Araluen field, and after working as
a digger for a few years, established the Braidwood
Dispatch, and, two years later, the Braidwood
News, both of which papers are still alive—the
latter edited by Mr. Watson’s eldest son, Mr.
C. J. B. Watson. In 1863, the deceased founded
the Shoalhaven News, and, 10 years later, the
Kiama Reporter and several other journals,
which are yet in the land of the liviDg. It may
truthfully be said that the deceased gentleman
established more papers than any other man in
Australia—a fact of which he was somewhat
proud. Mr. Watson was a man of great persever-
ance and determination, but it was alike a virtue
and a fault of his that he was ever looking for fresh
fields for his energies. As a journalist he had
many enemies, but as a private citizen he was much
esteemed by the thousands with whom he was ac-
THE LATE MR, CHARLES ISAAC WATSON.
quainted. In Sydney he had some connection
with the Press, and was on the Empire when Sir
Henry Parkes brought the “ forties ” from Eng-
land. Deceased was remarkable for his out-
spokenness, and was eternally In trouble with his
many journals—in the matter of libel actions he
was undoubtedly top scorer. About two years
since Mr. Watson had bis leg broken by a hoise-
kick, the effects of which accident greatly im-
paired his health; he ultimately succumbed to
paralysis of the brain following on a period of ex-
treme physical debility. He was a charitable man
-as a master-printer the "comps.” gave him a
good name, and the weary tramp was never
known to pass his office unassisted. Our portrait
is from a photo, by Messrs. Kerry and Jones, of
George-street, Sydney.
If they don’t look out over in Noumea
they will find the Rev. Jones as troublesome as
the Tongans find the Rev. Baker. When men go
at each other's throats in other parts of the world
it is generally pertinent to ask who is the woman ?
When hair begins to fly in the little cocoanut isles
of the South Seas, the leading question should in-
variably be who is the missionary? Mr. Jones
is the Anglican missionary at Mare, which is
subject to the authority of New Caledonia.
It would appear, from the accounts pub-
lished in the local French papers concerning
him, that his influence over his people is
very great, and the following incident, which
happens to be the latest to hand, will show that he
has diplomatic talent enough to keep it in the face
of adversity. Mr. Jones, says L’lndependant, was
to be got rid of quietly, and with that object the
authorities introduced a French Protestmt pastor
called Cru, whose duty it was to get the inside
running of the intractable Briton, Jones. But
Jones saw through the game. Knowing that if he
publicly declared antagonism to M. Cru be would
be lifted over the borders by the civil authorities,
whose minion Cru was, he cleverly diplomatised.
Ho obtained the assent of Cru to conceding to the
people the right to appoint teachers, and allowing
Cru to think he was meekly going elsewhere, he
also got it admitted that the people and teachers
could elect their pastor. This master-stroke, as
Mr. Bernier calls it, intensified the regard of peo-
ple and teachers for him, and while the regard
was hot Mr. Jones obtained a public confirmation
of his position of pastor. There was a pitched
battle, and the maddest on both sides were sent to
prison. The tableau now consists of the Reverend
Cm Bilently pondering how he got euchred, the
Reverend Jones with dove-like simplicity re-
marking: "Je ne suis plus rien; c’est le peuple
qui choisit lui-mome ses teachers;” and the unfor-
tunate natives breaking one another’s heads and
splitting the welkin while they yell:—"Nous
sommes Protestants anglais; nous ne voulons pas
dtre protestants Nous obdirons a M.
Jones, et jamais a M. Cru,” Rule Britannia I
Whoop !
What a local paper calls “a remarkable
and peculiarly interesting little ceremony ” came
off down South last week. Sixteen of the original
possessors of the soil—whose only real estate in
terest, actual or prospective, takes the form of a
graveyard lot,—each wearing the garb of civiliza-
tion, and a very oppressive and idiotic grin, waited
on Graham Berry to bid him a fond farewell and
present him with a barrow-load of firewood,
carved about alter the manner of the art decora-
tions at the Sydney Fost Office. A Mrs. Bon. who
bossed the procees.on, said that never before had
the untutored aboriginee turned out in numbers
to do honour to anyo-e leaving the colony. By
the way, if the black doesn’t look smart he
oan't expect to have the pleasure again—there
won’t he enough of him left. The address,
inlited by a sable yet hoary chief of Coranderrk,
was the gem of the show. This child of nature
cracked Graham up as high as a kite, and feelingly
wrote, “I am very soirowful; and first time I
hear you was going I was crying.” He signed
himseif Barak—Borak, the sly Dig. meant to put.
Mr. Berry was happy—he was proud—that was the
most triumphant moment of his life. He had
always striven to be a father to his sable brothers
Then he kissed his hand (he wouldn’t kisn the
deputation) and the niggers bowed gracefully
and withdrew—judging from the expression of its
face, much dissatisfied. It had been seven weeks
rehearsing the interview and expected rum. A
Southern correspondent thus complet' sthe narra-
tive:—" Graham Berry goes to London with the
blessings of the few remaining Victorian abori-
gines ringing in his ears. Graham never knew the
extent of his own goodness until the blacks from
Coranderrk station enlightened him on the sub-
ject. According to the address of Chief Barak, of
Yarra Yarra tribe, it was the bountiful Berry who
gave unto them "more food and clothes and
blankets and better houses ” for which “ the
people all very thankful ” All this must be very
pleasant for the departed patriot to reflect upon.
There was only a line in the chief’s address to
which Graham might take exception—" God keep
you in the straignt way.” Now, did Mr. Barak
mean anything nasty in that ?
Wolfe's Schnapps removes the various
causes which give rise to dyspepsia and urinary
complaints.
“ Tell me, Mary, how to woo thee,
That thy will to mine may yield.”
" Go,” she said, 41 and get your garments
At the house of Summerfield.’*
J. Abernethy says: “ Eat only when very
hungry, drink when very dry, and rest when
nature requires it.” What lots of things are made
to eat off, and also to drink from, flow many
thousands of dishes and plates, cup?, saucers,
tumblers, wine glasses and decanters, Bray Bros ,
402 and 404 George-street, keep for the express
purpose of people eatiDg off and drinking from.*
The weak, the nervous, the dyspeptic the
sleepless, owe more to Wolfe’s Schnapps than any
other cordial.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHAR LEMON r et CIE.,
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are now
open in the Royal Arcade.
Messrs. C. & Co. have engaged an tiliaient staff
of Artises for ali branches in art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have bean trained in the
leading European establishments.
Mr. Thomas C Cleave (who has had the dis-
tinguished honour of photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.K.H.s the
Prince and Princess of Wales, many members of
the Koyal Family, also the Prince Imperial and
other notables) will persmally superintend the
studio work.
Our portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
and Excellent, and we invite inspection of our
work exhibited in the Vestibule, leading to our
Studios.
CHARLEMONT et CIE.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straot,
Established 1861,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
w* Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed. .
ii
r~
QTUDI ECONOMY
£5 and
Havc y our Umbrella Frame*
re-coyered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
I equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
1 641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
I Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly axr.
m
WIPiLIM.
LIMITED,
356 Georgje-street,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEBT MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co
356 George-street, Sydney.
THE NEW FURNI'SURB
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAG H-BTKEET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Jmsi, Lam k„ s Co,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
cash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &c ,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES,
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co. 1
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
TUT T? GOT? a
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
POME ROT-CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH-STRE ST,
Near Hunter-street.
E
YBRYBODY I
SHOULD USE f
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete vrtth the newest and most approved
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the <?UALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI Cleorce-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
. ii
SWALLOW A
LL’S
BISCUITS HD CADES, TREACLE ADD SOLDER STROP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
foe supekioeity of quality and excellence, -’■sb®
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Med a *
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881 ; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. ISbiS-A,
« v Rvwnt** W. W. ARIELE. S ©QL» mvti mm K«iif-Itr«»(.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Wagga Evening Star in a frantio at-
tempt to give Fryer's circus a notice says: “In
this circus a departure is made from the usual
hum-drum of circuses.” We should like to say that
the Riverine paper makes a departure from the
usual hum-drum of other country papers; but if
we did, what would become of our little soul ?...
A copy of The Bulletin, and a knife comprises
the staff of a little Brisbane weekly. It’s present
name is unsuitable, it should be called the Shaker.
. ...The Douglas (N.Q.) Divisional Board threatened
to boycott the local Times, The editor pointed his
quill with the result that another victory has been
scored by the weapon which is mightier than a
corporation, pickaxe—Mr. J. B. Aspinai), Q C. t
Recorder of Liverpool, is dead. He was, wc be-
lieve, a brother of that celebrated advocate the
late Butler Cole Aspinall, Q-C At Spalding,
N Z , a young man named Hubbard, only 21 years
of age, was married in the morning, and in the
afternoon was drowned while skating.... Up near
Rockhampton (Q.) lately a married man, who was
selling his claim to a syndicate on their approval
of a ton crushing, brought 2oz. of rough gold
to the machine while the trial was going through,
and asked the manager to mix it through the
stono. Strangely enough the man was not hung,
arrested, or even kicked. The eyrdicate simply
broke off negotiations with him C. E. Jones, of
Victoria, who is announced to lecture in Sydney
shortly, says that Sir Henry Parkes has a magnifi-
cently intellectual head. “I know it,” says the
modest VictoriaD, “ became I find that his head is
exactly the same size and shape as my own.”—
The two Hebrews.—" Say, Isaacs, vat vas de most
foolish ting, you ever did in the vay of bithnets ? ”•
“Veil, Jacobs, Ivunce loaned a suvrin on a 15 j.
vatch.” “ I did vorse than that* I anteed
up vun and sixpence for a Soudan medal, and
pless me if it brought more than a sprat at my
veekly sale. I vos had, proper.”
Russian budget for 1886 shows a deficit of
£7,000.000. Them Nihilists!... Uader the Portu
guese protectorate the annual “ customi ” of the
King of Dahomey were last year omitted-for the
first time within human memory. Some 100 odd
Dahomeians are cocsequentiy walking about with
the heads which, under the regularorfer of thiigs,
they would have yielded up for the adornment of
the palace... .I he Earl of Richmond, crank and
etheromaniac, is once more loose on the Continent
closely pressed by the attentions of the police,
who " pass him on” in the politest manner, from
town to town, but will not allow him to remain
anywhere long enough to “feel his feet.” What
au exalted notion thv “scaly furriner ” muet con-
ceive of British hereditary legislators.... Ambas-
sadors, says an Eaglish paper, these days are not
wanted. A couple of p&rmauent clerks would
answer all purposes. Mcst of our ambassadors
have been poor men on starting life. One of them
lived over a pork butcher’s shop, and dined off a
biscuit and half a pint of beer. When he died, his
personal property was sworn under £lOO 000 ...
A musical pendant to Vereschagin's “ Holy
Family” has turned up in Massenier's new opera,
“Herodiae,” which Cardinal-Archbiihap Caverot,
at Lyons, is denouncing furiously as “ further
evidence of an extensive conspiracy of artists to
degrade the Gospel”....A lady, lecturing on tee-
totalism lately, said“ Consider the number of
persons who drink themselves to death. My
grandfather drank himself to death.” One
of the audience immediately got up and
said: “Ma’am, if your grandmother was suoh
a woman as you, that accounts for it,” and
walked out. The meeting broke up in disorder....
Hugh Conway’s posthumous novel, “A Cardinal
Sin,” is one of the most enthralling pieces of
fiction of the last quarter of a century... .One of
the latest finds in Egypt is an assortment of harps
over 3000 years old. They are keyed to 21 strings,
and still yield musical sounds, but sre rather out
of tune. So must those other harps be that we
read of so often In the first left-hand column of
the S.M. Herald ...David Pugh has died in Wales,
aged 101 years. He worked at his trade as a joiner
till within a fortnight of his death From an
American paper: Mary E len Chase says ‘ there
will he three wonun to one man in Heaven.’
Then there will be two women out of every three
that will be mighty lonesome, and don’t you for-
get it, Mary Ellen.”—The Edmunds Bill against
polygamy empowers the U S President to place
the whole Mormon community under “ Curators.”
Excellent— sed quis custodiet ipsos-custodesf
When Charles Lamb poked his satirical
steel into the religious tr.tiers of his time by de-
claring that one of the chief topics of dispute
was the all-important question of how many
angels could dance on the point of a needle at the
same time, he evidently fancied ha had struck a
smart thiDg, but were he alive to-day he would
lind that equally ridiculous topics form the sub-
ject of serious discussion in the columns of our
chief sectarian j lurnals. For instance, the Lon-
don Tablet starts a row as to whether a person
who advisedly takes a homoeopathic globule can
afterwards, on the same day, receive holy com-
munion, and some of our own religious picnickers,
who take the communion about as often as they
do the globule, are up to their ears in the fray
already. According to the law of the Roman
Catholic Church, the communioants are pro-
hibited from eating or drinking before com-
munion even in the smallest quantity; and the
taking of medicine Is included in the prohi-
bition, so the natural inference is that a person
having the choice of the two should receive
communion and die, rather than take a homoeo-
pathic globule and live It’s a poor law, either re-
ligious, or civil, how ever, through which a level-
headed man oannot trot a coach and four, and
hence, we are not at all surprised to And one theo-
logian, who wants to see a little more of life’s
lleeting show, Asserting that a homoeopathic pill is
dissolved in the saliva and lost in if, and when
being swallowed it is takeD, not as food—per
modum cibi— but per modrum saHvae. St. Peter will
require to be very much awake when that theo-
logian raps at the garden gate, or ho’l 1 bluff himself
in on a last season’s ticket, and then poke it out
through the palings to a pal. A noiher theologian
who seems inclined to vote straight,, bucks against
this, however, and points out that. “ if fqof or
drink is taken into the mouth with the intention
not of swallowing but of rejecting: it, as for in-
stance a lotion used to rinse t.he mouth or throat,
or some tea taken solely in order to test its
flavour, such use does not break the natural
fast, even if after the rejection of the
substance in the usual way some portions
of it remain unintentionally in the mouth and
are swallowed with the saliva; neither is the
person who has so used food or drink bound to
take scrupulous care that all the substanee so
taken into the mouth shall be rejected, for this,
as theologians say, would lead to ‘ rustioity or
‘ judaio observance.’ But [and there are as many
‘buts’ in theological reasoning as there are in a
goat] anything taken into the mouth, and having
the nature of food or medicine, with the intention
that it be swallowed, although it bo in the smallest
quantity and be perfectly dissolved in the saliva,
is taken as food, and therefore violates the natural
fast.” This makes the matter as clear as mud, but
it is a consolation to know that if Pathrick places
a quart of whisky in his mouth to rinse it only, and
a pint of it slips down his throat per accidens, he
can shelter himself under the “ rusticity ” olause,
and shunt all the trouble on the potheen. Any-
way, the subject is of the greatest moment to us
all and is only second in importance to that other
debating society trouble, “ Which is better, to
have a mother-in-law, or a dad in gaol ?”
Neither trickery or competition has been
able to affect the reputation of Wolfe’s Schnapps
ANTHONY HORDERN & 80NS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
fl
A department specially de-
voted to the service of the
ladies is our undercloth-
ing department, and it is a
branch of our business which
receives that special and
minute attention which it is
our unbounded pleasure to
give to all matters that
specifically concern our fair
friends. That we do look
after their interests is cer-
tain from the prosperity
which attends cur c fforts,
and this good and pleasing
results is, perhaps, more
noticeable in Our Under-
clothing Department than
in any other. Our long ex-
perienco is one important
factor in this happy conclusion, and the careful
and studied watchfuluess which characterises the
management of the department also helps it on in
an almost immeasurable degree. At the present
moment our stock is in a most c mnplete and per-
fect condition, rich id new embroideries, patterns,
and exquisite designs, exhibiting all those niceties
in work, and elegancies of finish, which should at
all times be the distinguishing and paramount
feature in Ladies’Underclothing. Nor is this all,
if we are particular about the class of goods we
offer it is likewise our proud boast th9t our prices
for value are Lower than those of any other bouse
in Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
m H ■ A T R * R G Y A L .
1 Under the direction or
Messrs. W illiamson, Garner and Musoroy*.
Less«**, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. T.. Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
FOURTH WBEK of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUSGHOVK'S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
who have achieved another
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
DARK DAYS.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, APRIL J,
at 7.45, will be acted the famous drama, in Five
Acts and Seven Scenes,
DARK DAYS,
by Hugh Conway and Comyns Carr, authors of
CALLED BACK.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B N. Jones.
25th WEEK Of the DAMPIER SEASON.
Last Night But One of the Grand Romantic drama,
ALL FOR GOLD,
or
FIFTY MILLIONS OF MONEY.
Saturday. April 3, THE GREAT PINK PEARL,
8 under the patronage and in the presence of His
Excellency the Governor and Suite.
Manager for Mr. Dampier ....FRED. GUNTHER.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening [during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes; Orchestra ohairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
baloony, Is.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7 30 o’clook.
OADBMY OF
Sole Proprietor and Manager
85 tb WEEK
MUSIC.
F. E. Hiscosks.
85th
And still the popular and Fasbionablo Resort.
Once again we reoord another Great Hit of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Specialty Union.
OUR NEW PROGRAMME.
Terminating with Bent’s mirth-provoking sketch,
WHAR’S DAT GOOSE.
LYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR.
Bourke—Thursday, April 1
Nyngan—Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3
Orange (return visit)— Monday, April 5
Cudal—Tuesday and Wednesday, April 6 and i
Parkes—Thursday. Friday, Sat., April 8,9, and 10
Forbes—Monday, Tuesdav, Wed., April 12,13,14
Grenfell—Thursday and Friday, April 15 and 16
Cowra—Saturday and Wednesday, April 17 and 21
Carcoar—Monday and Tuesday, April 19 and 20.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, Ac. For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL, .
Manager and Instructor.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, BYDNtY.
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
mm.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,'
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD !
‘ ‘ iﬂ 2 43%;
5.222“: ‘5';
‘71} ~ ‘~. ‘ ‘ :‘W‘ M113“ \f§~‘:~:"$" ' a
'1 (‘I/ \‘2‘ thmwy {.’.-Kw .\§ 24‘ \‘n,
2 2 22 .222 2‘2" 2222/ w
\\ \ “I {:1 241‘ MW 1'” " "N2 2?"?
a 2‘“ [reggﬂ 2‘22! ‘ #2 W2:
3:2; 23:24:; 22." '22 l ..
2: “’9‘?" W2" gsfzfmw‘ﬁﬁ": -_2:
1% \ 21W! VF"? WWW/2’92: . "?.\ “2:2.Mﬁz‘ii253f'if‘x5
3 : '2" ‘2' ' ‘ ‘ <2 2 23223-53 \
:2 2. : 2 A: :::2 2 22
‘32 Q2 ‘ “4:734:52: 27' _2 \\§\
55:: 9 ~ 2:; tier: “222 2222222 "
-:—-:2 -“\<§:=%:—::
a: 139‘
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
mmm
The “LOUIS’’
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at -
four times the price. For Costumes and
■.Trimmings if is unequalled, and in fact ,
' for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
the “LOUIS" VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis,”
%
: May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
f POST FREE QU Jr
application. -
V
i -
JCO'
<b
V
Genuine
Economical
t-conomicai
Cocoa
Makers to the Queen
m
m
m
Department of Publio Works,
Sydney, March 30 18£6.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notioe are strictly oompUed
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Work* and Buppllea
Dates to whlob
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Supply of Hardwood, Colonial
Pine, Oregon, Baltic, &c., Hun-
ter River District, during 1886
Supply of Uniform Clothing
for Tramway employees
Overbridge in Guinea-street,
Albury, Great Southern Rail-
way
Tuesday.
April 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Alterations, &c., Police Build-
ings and Lookup, Cootamun-
dra
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
saum „
Purchase of Locomotive En-
gines, Honeysuckle Point
Erection of Station Building, -
Bolivia, Great Northern Bail-
way
Erection of Cottage, Police Sta-
tion, Moruya
Erection of a House for porter
in charge at Wimbledon, Gt.
Western Kailway
Erection of Stationmaater’sßesi-
dence at Riverstone
Tuesday,
April 13,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Four Sets of
Wrought and Cast Iron Cylin-
ders for crane foundations,
Newcastle
Tuesday,
April 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Riveting and Erection of nine
Wrought Iron Aqueducts,
Sydney Water Supply
Ereotion of Lighthouse and
Lightkeeper’s Cottage, Kiama
Tuesdav,
Aoril 37,
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNE.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’i.)
T
O THK MEMBERS ©F THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladles and gentlemen,—l respectfully solicit your
Votes and Interest as a Director of your Society,
of which I am and have been a member for 2(5 years
I think it due to you to speak with no uncertain
voice with respect to the action of the Board in
establishing a branch in England for the taking of
English risks. I believe the step to be unwise, and
that the opinion of the members should have been
obtained prior to adopting such a momentous
change in the policy of the society. I deem this
the more incumbent on the directors as the deci-
sion was NOT the unanimous vote of the
Beard, BUT ONLY CARRIED bv the votes of a
MAJORITY of the directors. For a fuller ex-
pression of my principles, see my address to the
members in the Sydney Morning Herald of 23rd
and 29th, Daily Telegraph of 24th, Bulletin and
Town and Country Journal -of 27th, and Eveniog
News of 27th March.
FREDK. LEE.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of diseases, even
the most stubborn, particu-
larly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touch,
most in a few days—so that
this is net only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, but one of the noblest
medicines that God ever gave
to man.—The Rev. J. Wesley.
Glad tidings of certain re-
lief to sufferers from seminal
weakness by means of Foot's
Yoitaio Appliances.
The Voltaic Belt, as advised,
is really a galvanic battery,
as it is commonly termed. Its
mode of application is so well
known that I need not waste
space in expatiation.
F
These Voltaic Belts are a certain, safe, and
speedy cure for Liver Complaint, indigestion,
Seminal Debility, Nervous Headaches Lumbago,
Sciatica, Dyspepsia, Palpitation of the Heart,
Heartburn, Dizziness, Lack of Will Power, for-
getfulness, Irritability, and all complaints of a
nervous nature.
The price in future will be 17a. 6d. instead of
605., as formerly. As I have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at less
than one-third their former price.
The above amount includes medieal advice, if
required.
Apply at once to Dr. FOOT, Box 916, G.P.O*
Sydney, with P.O. Order for 17s. 6d., and you
belt will be despatched by the return of post.
M
DR. T H O
may be consulted on . , _ a
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections*
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-strcot.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertisiuff
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations pass
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicia i
London, 1864; Member of the Royal College
Surgeons, London, 1859.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T jBAIM Royai.-" Dark Days ”... P.
Gaiety Theatre— “ All for Gold
Aeham bra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe
Academy oe Music.— Minstrelsy ••
Not here we emulate the critic fierce,
Who runs-a-muck at various sundry shows,
And should our writing tender bosoms pierce
At times, ’tls but the thorn upon the rose;
We offer here the flower, rose-tinted, sweet,
To eaoh deserving of a line of praise,
And strive with gentle hand each one to meet,
Whose actor's footsteps tread in erring ways;
To point with gold-tipped pen his errors, mild
To cheer, while finding fault where’er it be,
To deal as doth a mother with her child,
Who gazes, earthward, o’er her loving knee,
To soothe as doth the mother’s gentle hand,
Which gently pats, while weeping for her deed,
To write so lightly that in all the land
The actor and his friends may run and read,
May laugh with them, and us, in lightest vein,
At praise or blame, each lightly written down,
That each who plays may play to us again;
Below we “criticise” the shows in town.
** * *
The dramatised version of Hugh Conway’s
sensational drama, “ Dark Days,” was put on the
stage of the Sydney Boyal last Saturday night. It
is not necessary to describe the plot. The stage
fittings and scenic properties are in keeping with
the reputation the management of this theatre
have secured. The scene at Roding Copse, where
the moonlight streams among the trees and the
white snOw falls upon the murdered body of Bir
Mervyn Ferrand, while Philiopa Lafarge, the
fevered, hysterical, insane somnambulist, staggers
forward in her sleeping robe and beholds the
glassy eyes of her dead husband, makes an intel-
lectual, artistic, and mechanical combination that
lives vividly in the mind after the curtain falls.
* * *
The first act goes somewhat drily. That,
however, is not a bad presage. The drama that
opens sensationally is prone to end in a fizzle. It
is the wont of sensational debuts of every sort to
be followed by palpitating dissatisfactions and a
querulous sense of disappointment. In the second
act purpose and power are hard held. There is
nothing superfluous in dialogue or action. The
villain is at his best, physically and mentally.
Polished, cynical, suave, cool, but yet apprehen-
sive, he is alert for what comes The speeches are
well written. They are points in narrative. Such
speeches require able delivery. The actor must
know the force his words carry, their necessity,
their aim- their significance, not alone at the time
he uses them, but the new meanings they are to
bear when afterwards they come up. It is here
the artist in pulpit, at bar, or on the stage gives
the exquisite touch of his quality. Words are
there. Tones are their raiment. From the realm
of sound he draws them. With docile speeco, with
sensitive ear he speaks, he hears, he over-hears.
To give nrominenca to a phrase that does not
reach a prominent aspect of his whole subject is a
sign-mark of eloquent mediocrity. Mr. Tither-
adge held himself finely in this act. He repeated
the characteristic excellence of Dr. North’s house
in the first scene of the act that followed. His
tones were as pregnant as the author’s words.
* * *
It is likely that in time a wide divergence
of opinion will arise respecting the merits of the
dramas eonstructed from Hugh Conway’s books.
There is in them only a single centre of interest.
This centre is situated on the border-land between
the actual and the imaginative. His power is
exercised in carrying the reader in here without
waste of time or energy. The nearest road is taken
and only absolutely necessary characters are em-
ployed. But his diction possesses no marked ex-
cellence, and, in fact, no marked goodness of any
kind. His s' yle is plain and fairly vigorous, but is
destitute or any of the subtle touches that indi-
cate the external form in which all literary work
of permanent value is disclosed. No English
classic in use was written by a man with such
spare literary qualifications as his. Cobbett is
master of the school of style nearest to Conway’s,
but in Cobbett’s simple straightforwardness there
were a richness, a fulness, and a greatness which
keep him, though unadorned, amoDg the writers
who have proved that the English language is
capable not only of expressing thought, but of
expressing it with the music of regular cadences,
and without the vulgarity of brusqueness, or the
insolent bravado of syntactical disorder. When,
then, the single centre of interest has been visited
by the public, it is likely that among those with an
eye for permanent values the Conway reputation
will fall like a house of cards. “ Dark Days” beat
" Sartor Resartus ” in the race for popular appre-
ciation. Froude says somewhere that there were
more copies of “ Pickwick ” sold in five years than
of “ Hamlet ”in 200. He adds, truly, that “ Ham-
let” will last as long as the “Iliad,” while “Pick-
wick” will be unreadable to our grandchildren.
* * *
It is hard work getting one’s-self to like
parts of Mr. Herbert Flemming’s Dr. Basil North.
The voice is hard, the manner unsympathetic, the
movements too abrupt and violent. It is a sincere
conception of work, and, fora doctor apparently
young in his profession, seasoned, but, notwith-
standing, some good “ bursts” it is, taken as a
whole, not a strong picture of earnest, passionate
love to set against the baleful spectre of the vil-
lain Ferrand. Miss Knight had a romantic part,
and she played it with the romance in it, while
Miss Brooke and Mr. Vincent made themselves
happy without inflicting any pain upog rthe
audience.
*• * *
“ Girofle-Girofla ” swirls along at the Syd-
ney Opera House to the pleasure of its patrons,
and, we trust, to the satisfaction of the manage-
ment. There is one particular feature of the show
that has, for us, an especial fascination. No; it is
not when the semicircle of maidens artistically
dress the stage, it is the pirates’ chorus. Notltbat
we are paralysed by the beauty of the music, or en-
chanted by its (dear old word,) rendition, but there
is such an intense air of realism about these
bloodthirsty brigands, that we involuntarily begin
to conjure up a vision of the devastation they
would make in the horrent front of battle, or in
the seductive array of a van-load of pump-
kin pie. These ferocious ruffiians not only
"fl wh their dovers ” with a skill that tells
of destruction to damper, but they assume
that barbaric savagery of visage whieti is
a Bine qua non in the profession of piracy. And it
seems to be a healthy life, too, and favourable to
the accumulation of adipose tiesue, for we ob-
served that when the most portly of the pirates
assumed the bed-tick livery of Mourzook he
seemed percept.'bly paler and notably narrower
than before. Edwin Lester adorns his business
with a wide fringe of gag, which brings joy all
round—in fact, we believe that the majority con-
sider him a more brilliant wit than Gilbert—a
happier humorist than Burnaud. We don’t mind
sayiDg on the whisper than we have not so high
an estimate of his wholesome fun as the majority
of the audience, but still it fetches, so really there
is no reason why we should be aggressively criti-
cal. At the time of writing, “Girofle-Girofla” is
still the only future business announced at this
theatre. „ _
*# * *
At the Sydney Gaiety Theatre the Dam-
pier combination are playing “ All for Gold, or
Fifty Millions of Money.” This is one of Eugene
Sue's mad, miraculous conceptions, and, like
“ Monte Christo,” is calculated to keep the anxi-
ous listener in suspense. One does not know,
when the curtain falls, whether to give his brick
or his bouquet, whether to howl at the sinner or
applaud the saint. Sue's virtue is so impossibly
virtuous, and his vice so unnaturally vicious that
the average mind becomes unhinged in the effort
at discrimination. ,“A'l for Gold” is not altoge-
ther a “new ” novelty, Sydneyites have seen it
before.
* * *
The house was fairly full below on Monday
aventng when we succeeded in obtaining a seat.
We could have taken a row of chairs had we
chosen, but two are always sufficient for us.
Around us In all the glory of evening undress
were the butterflies of fashion, behind us were the
less pretentious but more substantial two bob
people, while above and half encircling us were
the gods—a motley bare-armed, coatless congre-
gation, who cheered Dampier at every turn, and
howled and hissed Stoneham whenever that elec-
tric light of iniquity put his foot upon the boards.
Dagobert Baudin, a soldier of the Empire, is Dam-
pier or he is he. His mission in life is to restore
to the world the infant daughters of General
Simon, whom he has carried from Warsaw or
Lapland or some remote district to the capital of
France. He packs the damsels on horseback over
thousands of miles of inhospitable territory, and
by some secret process unknown to others who
have much to do with children kept their faoes
clean all the time. We can’t do that with our
family, and he hasn’t cut his first tooth yet. Dago-
bert is a hero in the eyes of the youthful twain;
they know no trouble which he can keep from
them; their meals are always ready, and their
washing done; and but for the fact that Morok’s
panther ate his trusty steed early in the course of
the campaign, Dag. would have reached dear
Paris in time to have averted all the purposes of
the dramatist. His object is to secure to the chil-
dren a fortune which is theirs by right, and in this
laudable enterprise he is eventually, of course,
successful.
* • ■
Ed. Holloway is Morok, the lion-tamer.
We cannot imagine Ned in this kind of act. One
lion, we should think, would knock two doses of
Holloway higher than a keg of Curtis and Harvey
would hurl a brickbat. The lions do not appear in
the progress of the piece; indeed, from the read-
ing of the dialogue, it is fair to assume the lions
are a panther who is still roaming free and un-
fettered in his native wilds. Little odds, though,
either of the above mentioned insects would cause
the portly Ted to climb a tree. We take little
stock in that kind of lion tamers. Morok has to
be generally vile all through, and Holloway and
iniquity do not agree.
* * *
Stoneham, as Salvador, the cringing,
sneaking, half-souled, chicken-hearted, pigeon-
toed money-lender, is a Judas Iscariot kind of vil-
lain, to whom gold is god and silver sacred. For
the yellow dross he is billing to sell that intangible
something which men call sou', but the father of
lies has so heavy a lien on the arttcle that he can-
not trade to much advantage with theinnooents
of earth. He, the Wandering Jew, and old Satan
appear to have entered into a co-partnery to
obetruct the course of right by robbing the chil-
dren of their inheritance. And, brethren, in the
attempt he—like all other evil doers—fails miser-
ably. Virtue triumphs and vice goes to the wall.
• •
And these children. Oh, yes. Hetty and
another Sherwood are the daughters of the
Marechal of France, and upon their troubles
hinges the plot of the play. They are not stolen
at birthjand swapped away for the cottager’s kid,
two miles distant; they are not branded with an
Ron the shoulder, nor have they the traditional
strawberry mark. No, messieurs, none of this;
they have nothiog of this sort, but they have bad
luck. Not fair to middling, you know, but a real,
Oriental hanging, and foot-walls well defined—
3ft. lode of bad “ mozzle,” which runs due north
and south, through their career. The youngest
narrowly escapes strangulation by a Thug, early
in this piece. We could not place the Thug in
French territory—the giddy Indian strangler
rarely associates with the whiter villain. Anyhow,
he was on hand, and tried to strangle the child
afterstealiog Dagobert s papers. The elder sister,
a maid of some seven summers, shot him out. and
placing her baby sister on the bed with a little
sawdust doll for company, the trio fell asleep.
It was a beautiful picture—when they went to
sleep. Then Dagobert came in; we hoped he was
going to sleep, too, but he had just disturbed the
panther in the act of eating his horse, and sleep
was not for him. “ Shall I make them, shall I tell
them the horse is eat? No, not me. I am a
soldier of the,Empire; they thall not know. “Lily,”
“ Rose.” As they arose the curtain fell, and we
climbed out.
•# * •
Leston was good in his impersonation of
Karl, a servant of the lion-tamer. Growing tired
of the villainies of his master, he severs his con-
nection with him and joins issue with a devil’s
limb in the shape of a lawyer, assigning as his
reason his desire to become virtuous. We are
sorry for the means he chose to escape from the
trammels of vice. Unless, indeed, he thought the
practice of the law would legalise his iniquity.
His part has little in it, except business, and
Leston can manage that.
* * *
We might casually mention a few more
characters in this grand romantic drama, but the
lamp is going out, and, anyway, they don’t count
many; if some of them did as the lamp is doing, it
would not matter much. The ladies have little to
do with the suooess of the representation, and the
balance of the bill is filled with good men who do
nothing calling for special comment.
* * *
On Saturday night, his Excellency the
Governor, Lord Carington, and suite, will attend
to witness the production of the "Great Pink
Pearl” at the Gaiety. We will also attend to wit-
ness it, by vice-regal command. Our troubles.
mm m *
A benign Providence seems to reserve a
special optic for the Federal Minstrels at the Syd-
ney Academy, and to reward their good deeds
with exceptional liberality. We don't know ex-
actly how much longer they are going to stay here,
but if their continuance is to be regulated by the
character of the “ biz ” they may safely invest in
family vaults while land in the boneyards is rea-
sonably cheap. There were several new features
about Saturday'sshow, and many very well known
ones. The most familiar of the latter was Sam.
Keenan's mouth, and of the former the most ag-
gressively prominent was the first appearance on
this stage of Lance Lenton. He was not franti-
cally funny, nor marvellously melodious. His
business chiefly consisted in singing melo-
dies, not ot themselves alarmingly humor-
ous, in that dear old “ Deutscher Boy,”
way which has been familiar to us from our
very childhood, and blowing upon a miniature
fog-horn in an indiscriminate kind of manner.
This instrumental music was like boarding-house
Dutter—a very little of it went a very, very long
way. Taking the performance as a whole, we
cannot truthfully say that the Teutonic Triflings
were successful in stiffening the stalls, galvanising
the gallery, or perceptibly palpitating the par-
quette. Willie Warner's new business, was a
decided draw, and we hear that he will never,
no, never, again produoe the cork-arm recita-
tion in this city, not even by special request, so
his admirers may applaud without fear ot having
that relic of a remote antiquity sprung on them
again. The finale to the first part is a very gay
item, and there is also a halo of hilarity around
Horace Bent’s “Liver Complaint” song, E. C.
Dunbar has “returned” to his original piffero
specialties—we never knew that he had ever de-
parted therefrom. Moynham does some plain and
fancy kicking that fully entitles him to the care of
a family of grown up girls, and has revived the
wonderful Arabian mystery, which is about as
inscrutable as a letter from Frawncis Abigail, the
Fonetik, or the assays from a fillverton mine.
** * *
Stands the Sydney Alhambra where it
did? Rather, and the expansive smile on the
beauteous visage of the proprietor of the concern
shows that the “biz.” coincides with his brightest
hopes. There is nothing startlingly new to notice,
but the bill seems to be as sure a draw as ever.
** * *
Now we know all about it. Speaking of
the St. Cecilian art, as it’s slung in the Sydney
Alhambra, the Sydney Evening |News’ musical
“ cricket” Bays:—" The perfection of a vocal per-
formance depends very much on the suitability of
the song to the singer’s voice, the richness of the
accompaniment, and the acoustic clearness of the
atmosphere. The singing on Monday night was
pleasant to listen to, both on account of its in-
trinsic merit, and on account of the acoustic clear-
ness of the air. This acoustic clearness is quite
distinct from optical clearness.” All this trouble
is raised through the baked potato and hot save-
loy man wrapping his wares in a leaf of an old
magazine containing a copy of Tyndall’s lecture
on sound. “ Acoustics is good,” thought the
“ cricket,” and in it went; but it must have jarred
his sensitive soul to have his copy returned with a
note in Alfred’s own hand, asking if a cow-sticks
didn’t belong to the agricultural editor’s depart-
ment.
• * #
The Faust Family, who will be remem-
bered as being here with Chiarini’s Circus, are now
rakicg in the dollars in North Queensland. They
are the Faust Family of the kind the Northerners
have seen.
«* * *
Zulu Thompson, we see, has gone insol-
vent in Auckland. According to his evidence he
had airun of ill-luck bordering upon the farcical
—and he followed it up with a persistence worthy
of a hat-handing missionary on the “ moral
pocket-hankerchief ” trail. Here’s a little jingle,
just to keep his spirits up—
“ Look here, mate,” said Othello to Iago,
just as they were being "rung on” for the grand
scene in the third act, "I’m going to introduce a
new feature into this business. When, at the
lines:—
4 Villain, be sure thou prove my love a wanton ?
Bs sure of it; give me the ocular proof,’
I se'z9 you by the throat, I shall show my abhor-
rence by scitting in your face. It will bring down
the house I" " First-rate,” replied lago, “ and I’ve
also got a new feature to introduce into this
scene, as soon as you’ve done the spitting, which
will bring down the house a great deal more; but
I’m not goiog to tell you what it is.” They went
on, and—who’d have thought it?—Othello didn’t
spit.
« * * *
Yes, Miss Minnie Palmer will (D.Y.) bring
her dimples and diamonds to Australia before the
end of tae year, and frisk around in her own
speciality, “ My Sweetheart.” The poor old Argus,
which is ono generation behind the times in most
matters, speaks of this young lady as Milly Palmer.
That blunder carries our thoughts back to our
golden prime, when we were a curled darling, and
fair women fought and died for us; when syrens
begged an eyelash for their lockets and slumbered
with our photos, underneath their pillows. But,
enough of these old memories. Well, there was a
Milly Palmer—a pretty, plump, promising young
actress, too-some 16 or 18 years ago. But, Mein
Gotti that prettiness, plumpness, and promise
seemed to vanish with her maiden name, which
she "swopped” for theglobe-gloritiedpatronymic
of—Bandmann. The mighty Herr exercised such
a strange fascination oyer his young wife that she
rapidly acquired his mannerisms and affected a
monotonous foreign accent. And, Ach Himmel!
how she altered in aspect! Mrs. Bandmann became
a wan ghost of that Milly Palmer, of whom the
Abgus Van Winkle now babbies in his sleep.
* * # #
A London paper, in noticing Miss Minnie
Palmer’s recent appearance in a new enter-
tainment, ‘'Little Treasure,” says that Minnie
“has apparently learnt to depend overmuch on
the stripes of her stockings and the protrusions of
her nice pink tODgue.” This being so.it is quite
plain that new horrors are in store for tho Re-
verend Joseph Barnier and the l.M.C.A.
* * » *
Oh, and for the information of the Rev.
Joseph Barnier, we produce the opinion of
Madame Modjssfea concerning the troubled ques"
tion of stage morality. She writes:—“Morality
has nothing to do with art, and must not enter
into consideration with it. The auditor at the
theatre has no reasonable interest in the actor as
a person; he is concerned only with the character
which the actor is pourtraying. . . . Women
of the theatre indulge in no more iliriation than
those of the grand monde. They are certainly
forced to be more careful of their reputation;
they are in such conspicuous positions that their
slightest indiscretion is observed and commented
upon, while the society woman—well, perhaps
after the third offence, people will venture to
shrug their shoulders. 1 coafess that the actress
is exposed to many temptations that her more
aristocratic sister may escape; but then, if a girl
wants to be good, temptations do not count
for much, and if she does not want to
be well .” We think so to. But all this
raises the question whether it is necessary that a
parson even should be a virtuous man,—whether
his sermons would not be just as effective if his
reputation were as holey as the business end of a
pepper-box. As far as our experience goes we
don’t think that clerical eloquence is necessarily,
or even as a rule, attended by anything more than
the average morality. Even within the last two
orlthreejyears we could name fourAnglican parsons
in" Sydney whose language was as eloquent as
their conduct was vicious, and this, mind you, is
saying heaps: while, on the other hand, severe
virtue and sermons of more than millstone weight
were generally found to be incident to others of
their clerical brethren.
“la the House of Commons, as formed
from the result of the last election, there are
many members with the same surname. There
are five Campbell?, six Wilsons, six Hamiltons,
four Smiths, four Howards, four O’Connors, four
Balfours, three each Morgan, Acland, Lawrence,
William?, Russell, and Ferguson. There is one
Brown, one Jone?, and one Robinson—and one
Heaton. After this last, the flood, and—the
banjo:—
Arise, awake, ye dusty dead, . , ,
Whose names throughout the ages flourished,
Bach Ribinson put on his head,
And Browns, on whom red worms were
nourished,
Each Jones, who in the churchyard sleeps,
Awake, arise, we’ve news to tell you,
r ßhe world stands still, and silent weeps,
To know what has on earth befel you;
To know that in the Commons’ halls,
Amid the nation's grandest ehoosing,
Who meet within noble walls,
But one of each your name is using.
Great Gladstone, are these tidings true ?
But one thing mellows this dejection,
Although ’mid Commons they are lew,
They’ll poll welt at the resurrection.
TO ZULU.
You were always a decent old boy, Zulu,
You came of a genuine stock:
la bosoms you often shed joy, Zulu,
When you “ slung ” to a critic a clock.
You were always a decent old boy, Zulu,
Your “ sparks ” and your jokes were a treat;
Our grief, alas I has no alloy, Zulu,
When we think how we “ collared the suite.”
You were always a decent old boy, Zulu,
And if you’ve woo’d fortune in vain,
Don’t let her reverses annoy, Zulu,
You’ll soon be in splendour again.
“ THEM’S Mr SENTIMENTS,”
Said a lazy, seedy-lookiog cove, pointing: at a
banner in the labour procession. ® entl '
ments?” “ Down with prison labour. , Ab, you
are a working-man,jare you?” ‘‘Not just now,
but I’m afraid I will bo. I’ve been indicted, you
see, just because I got a few bottles of that cele-
brated St. Louis Laser Beer and could notexplaiu
how I obtained them.”
Persons whose blood is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS OF
First-class M
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIES.
Up to £50.
Send for the Eilver English Lever 4 0/-
4 1(V-
5 0/-
5 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0/-
Send for the Silver Wahham Watch 3 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 W-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
A handsome Oiiental Gold Brooch
will he presented to any one sending
an order tor no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 474 Georg e-street, opposite
the Market?.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.


BRIEF MENTION.
Holt—Bolt—Poetry, spring poetry, “ not
lost but-gone-before” kind of stuff.
“ Man accustomed to spouting wanted.”
Ad. from the Melbourne Age, Maroh 22. Jaynial
Dan, where ar’ ’oo ?
Some anxiety is felt for the safety of a
CwCyv n
S@®o®lycr=»
__ • " *
IH I K\c-wK
(/»< if vVM)
\W> v.i'dlll'
, " M M#k
(At if CHUI/LO
- Hhve fiEE/vJj
Would ,
1 'O/Yc,
ft 1 *,
V
m
@jﬁmh/qw'
" *?>.
[ VVA/-Z
A HiNT
Type* or
Concsrt In a Thunderstorm.
voungiadyof Townsville. She was last seen in
the company of an alligator with whom she is be-
lieved to have eloped.
“ An aboriginal named Cleft murdered hia
gin Polly, near Brighton, on the 19th inst”
When Cleft to Polly said he’d Cleave,
He meant by him she’d ne’er be left,
| But now, to hear, we sadly grieve,
He’s Cleft the skull of Mrs. Cleft.
Telegram cut from H M. Herald of 6th
March;—“ Tumbulgum, Friday.—The new mail
service from the Richmond is thoroughly approved
of .by the middle and lower classes here.” Aus-
tralia now yearns to know why the approbation of
the Tumbulgum aristocraoy is withheld from the
new mail service.
“You ought to be happy here,” said Alfred
Allen to our Alfred (they are great pals), looking
round his room at the E.N. offlse. “Yes,” fal-
tered Alfred, “for the time I’m in it.” “How
long will that be?” enquired he of the platform.
“I am one of Sir Daniel’s tenants,” cried Alfred,
sobbing upon his friend’s shoulder; ‘‘Only
(boohool)-nine years.”
The Salvation Army is essentially practi-
cal. This couplet is the latest from Morpeth
The fight Is tough in the open air,
And money is scarce. Have you any to spare ?
If this is not the straight and unpolished griflin,
call us a horse. No pleading, no “ Christian
friends,” but simply “ Brothers, ante-up.”
Significant and sarcastic, this. A new
branch of the Social Purity Society has been
formed in London, the badge being a small piece
of white ribbon, and the rallying pialm of the
crusade, “Put not your trust in princes.” Wonder
if our Mr. Wales will lay the foundation stone of
that society’s new hall.
Ex-King Theebaw’s best wife into
ecstacies over the perfume of Old Tom gin when
somebody uncorked a bottle in the Royal presence.
It is said that she “ dissipated it in scenting her
person.” Europeans are wont to Indulge in simi-
lar dissipation. We have known gifted journalists
to scent themselves with an occasional three-
pen’ortb. ,
The Cobar Herald sjys “ Constable
Robb has been transferred from the foot polio* to
the mounted constabulary at his own request. Ha
is going for promotion—his next step will be. we
hear, towards the altar.” Towards the altar!
Why not to It ? As the world goes, his name is a
good one for any post, civil or ecclesiastical.
An apprentice on the ship Tamerlane was
struck blind by lightning, the electric fluid being
attracted by a pair of scissors he was holding in
his hand during a thunderstorm. It Is a marvel
more country newspaper men are not blind
Some of them never have the scissors out of their
hands except when they are using the paste or
lifting a jug.
The Northern Miner says All the
men working at the Smelting Company's works
are out on strike through an increase in the lnurs
of working'.” Thaddeus 0 Kane, you're an Irish-
man. If there were 12 cows lying down in a Held
and wan iv ’em was ehtandin’ up, that ’ud ha a
bull. It they are working and the smelters are out
on strike, that ’ud he a ball.
How those. alligator editors do love one
another—at a d’Wrnce. Brisbane Bulccck calls
the editor of th'-‘ Mokjston Mall 11 an im pecunicus
wretch,” upon which the fellow who bargs the
Archimedian lever for the Mail rt torts that ‘‘if
journalism does not pay (as iI each a thing wore
possible !) he can only i ud where he is informed
Bulcock commenced, by hawking bananas at a
penny a piece up and down Queen-street.’’ There


should be a good opening for a Foley-Jackson
mission up North.
“ While Mr. W. N. Qubble was out hunting !
the other day,” says the Queanb yan Age, “he
galloped into a wire-fence with suffioiect violence
to remove all the skin from his face. However,”
(this was written only two days afterwards) “ he is
now not much the worse.” We want to see in
Sydney some of these Queanbeyan people who look
well when they're skinned.
The Evening Bennett says “It is re-
ported that the discovery of payable g fid at
jtchuiga, S.A. is premature." Nonsense; the dis-
C ivery of the yellow gold is never premature. It
Cinnot come too soon nor stay too long, though at
the last it “ bitbth like a serpent and stirgeth like
an adder," but while we hold it the stuff “ gives
pleasure to all.” Ain't it APred ?
They have queer notions about insanity
over in Melbourne. Andrew Chapman was charged
at the City Gourt with being a lunatic at large.
Yet note his statement before the Bench: "I just
cime into town to see these policemen, who do
nothing but rob people at night and do nothing at
all in the day.” Andrew has pitched his tent in
the wrong city. In Sydney we should regard Hen
as an enlightened student of human character.
Htirry up with the Dies lf.de Dawvid
BuchanaD, of Sydney, says that the ti ue history of
New South Wales has hevter yet been written.
This is taken as a threat that he intends to write
it, and give a brief six-hour outline of his plan in
an rarJy lecture. In view of this calamity quite a
number of citizens are breaking up their happy
homes and starting off to winter at the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
Hubert Shrupp, chief steward of the
Barrabool, writes indignantly to the Brisbane
m
y Zeecen/7/y
/Vb Vj-79Ztf GO 6 A
To/a/ted ($/&//? TsQJLff# <&/?&lor f?&QM or ! V r
prffAT f/e <2)/3N r T Ot/6/Sr
To
yo tf COA/£
Aloa/Gt O Ays
wo //.ygz £-006
• ,J3/W£orA£ProtfA
J)im, or T //e oi/Mr
To Av'b/ldE: 77Y/7/V £-!/£:/?
JQ Ttf At
ro TM£- 9a9^ sP&y 77/£T X>oo TS 5,'
/O /t/sj) Tft/M //,M //^
The Persevering Peeler-
A STORY IN FOUR CHAPTERS.
Observer in answer to some complaints made by
one Cork on the inferior fare and bad waiting on
board the passenger steamers on the coast, and
Jots out the astounding and horrible fact that
the stewards'daily meals are the remains of the
saloon passengers.” It's quite a wonder the poor
stewards don’t get ill.
The Coonn Express apologues to a local
resident for having ch iracterised his aotion ii
travelling a horse 48 milei right off as ” downright
cruelty.” The of her day a very lean horse called
at this office siying he objected to dragging a
certain Darling Point moneylender to Syduey
every day. Tne horse further remarked that an
act should at once be introduced to prevent any
shark-mouthed Oriental who charged over a
hundred per shent for the loan of money driving
a horse at all.
Things at Sydney Zoo are looking up. A
little while ago a bl .ck panther escaped and held
.sovereignty tnere for some minutes. He simply
sprang aealost the bars, one of which moved suf-
ficiently to allow his exit. Sinoe then two dingoes
have gone for a stroll; in doiDg the grand about
Woollahra one of the dawga raided several hen-
roosts, but was ultimately captured alive by a
Jocal butcher. We now ask Mr. Walter Bradley
to oblige us bv naming the Saturday morning on
which the Bengal tiger shall have his teeth
sharpened and be allowed to do the block.
That will oome ia very handy, that idea of
the Newcastle steamer people introducing watch-
men on board their boats for the protection of
too passengers’ property. Now when you teel a
man s hand ip your trousers pocket, it will only
U u explanation that he is one of the
watchmen to lravr> the matter promptly and plea-
santly settled. We did occasionally manage to
J’ct- a valise ashore, or land with our “Water-
uury .in the old times, but now we shah only
travel with as much luggage and valuables as we
can crowd behind an eye-ball.
Justices’ justice to the fore again. A late
Sydney Water Police Court record reads :
“ Drunk, Disorderly, and Indecent.—J. Kidman,
grocer, was fined Jsi„ or 73 hours, for having
committed these offences in Cross-street, Double
Bay. The language was used to a civilian. Thomas
Harvey, seaman, was arrested for having been
drunk and disorderly in Botany-street, and ®n
reaching the station he used language which
shocked the police. The offence cost him £5, or
two months.” We, therefore, see how much more
serious It is to shock the sensitive 6x4 ears of the
foorce than those of a common civilian 9
A small mite of a Sydney boy was walked
to school on his ear the other morning by his Irate
ma* He had “ wsgged it ” for a week, and had ac-
tually been from come for four nighti. When
asked by the master where he had slept this child
of tender years said, calmly: “ Oh, I dossed with
Sinn of the push on the Qaay in some of the
empties,” meaning that he and his mates had elept
ia some boilers on the Quay. This hopeful will
atiend school irregularly for a few years; leave,
knock about promiscuous-fike over the colony,
and finally become an expert magsman or a lead-
ing politician. Such is life, dear reader.
The Sirgleton Argus announces that a
snake has been found “down in a coal-mine un-
derneath the ground,” 50 feet from the surface,
andlembedded in the coal. The snake was alive,
and curiosity is eieited as to how it got there.
Perhaps it climbed down the ladder, or fell down
the hole. We don’t wonder at cUriosity being ex-
cited in such cpscs Our own was awakened last
week at Wagps, wboD, after lathering us up, the
barber jumpe d on the back of the chair and an-
nounced, as he waved his razor within an inch of
our own nose, that a “great big black snake was
crawling on our neck.” We became curious
at once. Two bounds landed us on the path, and
10 seconds later we were climbing a tree.
Curiosity ? Yes, sir.
It is extremely sad to read the poisoning
by pancakes in Bordertown, B.A. We ourselves
have nearly always suffered through the same
dish; so much so, indeed, that “Shove”
Tuesday would have been more appropriate than
Shrove Tuesday after our having partaken of
them at our various boarding-houses. We be-
lieve, however, that the cooks at these delightful
residences substituted knife-powder for the
arsenic of B .rdertown, though what, In thunder,
they used instead of egars will ever remain a mys-
tery. Probably bone-dust, la Bllgh-street they
flourish. We don’t mean the boarders, but the
pancakes.
The Melbourne Presbytery lately owned
that they despaired of making prayer meetings
popular. Matters are still worse in England, for
there even the paupers kick against their religious
duties. In Homerton workhouse 380 of them re-
cently refused to attend Divine service, t'-eir
spokesman flatly declaring that “ they couldn’t
stummlk the way th’ sarvlce was goed through.
There warn’t no interest in it; and they warn’t
a-goin’ to be used jest to line the parson’s
pockets. The line of Christianity must be drored
somewheres.” A service in which fireworks, and
a brass band, and a free ball and supper formed
prominent features would probably fetch those
fastidious parties, but it is disheartening to think
that such people exist in the very home of Britain’s
bulwark.
Truth is like old cheese, and will prevail,
at times. Not long ago a certain Presbyterian
parson, who, on Timothy’s antiquated pretext,
takes an sherry and bitters, caught his
10-year old Randwick help sampling a bottle of
prime old port. Lifting him into the vestry by
his ear, the shocked minister exclaimed, “ Wr-r-
-etched boy! Do you think that it is possible for
anyone to sin in private ? Who is it that sees and
hears all we do, and befoah whom even I am but
a poah crush-hed worm?” To which tho blubber-
ing youth replied, “The Missus, sir.” And the
truth of the remark struck home so smartly that
the parson let go the culprit’s ear, and hastened
to plant the bottle behind a copy of Dodd’s “ Dis-
sertations on the Four Evangelists” on the top-
most shelf of his private library. Brethren, let us
pray.
The gratitude which exhibits, itself, not in
mere words only, but in coin of the realm, is so
rare nowadays that no instance of it should be
overlooked by a virtuous Press. Tne Queensland
Minuter for Works responded favourably to a
request made to him by a township in the West,
and so touched with his benignity were these
warm-hearted people that they resolved to mark
their gratitude by tendering him a present. They
met, decreed that the present should consist of a
gold scarf-pin, and that its value in the market if
ever the honourable recipient should And it nec s-
sary to negotiate with his uncle should be £4.
Thereupon the citizens broke up and left the rest
to be settled by their representative men, who,
being members of the committee of tho South
Warrego Hospital, at once voted that the £4
should be paid—out of the hospital funds. The
primitive virtues are not yet all dead.
A presiding officer on the Richmond River
recently invoked “ God’s blessing on our members
that they may be an honour to their constituen-
cies, have the courthouse fenced in, and give the
local constable a horse with good understandings.”
This, we consider, to be a great mistake. People
who pray Bhould never be too particular about
specifying their exact requirements. It is always
better to go it blind and trust to whatever turns
up. Just st present it may be desirable that the
Richmond River constable's horse should have the
pace of a Malua .and the wind of a hurrica e
orator, but times may change. We knew a bank
manager across the border who used to play tee
lay prea her’s part to perfection, and who once
prayed that the Looari would endow the newly-
appoiated police-sergeant, with an honesty and
firmness of purpose sufficient to enable him to
perform his duties in a faithfu l , upright manner,
and six weeks after that the preacher wai < ffeung
that sergeant a cool hundred to give him 24 hours’
start across the Barwon.
Most people are familiar with Gilbert’s
“Bab Ballad,” wherein the melancholy mariner
relates how hunger made him sole bodily repre-
sentative of a ship’s crew—
“l am the cook, and the captain hold,
And the mate of the Nancy brig;
The bo’eum tight, and the midship mite,
And the cre w of the captain’s gig,”
sang the remorseful man. All of us have shud-
dered over Marcus Clarke’s narrative of Gabbett
and his commissariat arrangements out in the
bush. Weli-to come to the point—a certain
water rat in the Melbourne aquarium is respon-
sible for these ghastly reminiscences. This four-
footed fiend was put into a tank along with five
trusting comrades. After tb«> first nivnt one rat
was missed-eaten, dear friends. Next night
another went, and so on, till two only remained to
tell the tale. These twin companions in crime
watched one another—like Gabbett and the “Crow”
—for 48 hours, but at last one inadvertently slum-
bered, and on the third morning a rat of abnor-
mal bulk swam in solitary state round that tank.
These unnatural orgies appear to have turned the
villain’s brain, for, after starting to coriednww Ws s
own tail, it died in delirium tremens.
The Cooktown Courier is a comic paper.
Few people are awar'e of the fact—not even its
editor, probably—but we now, with becoming
humility, exhibit some of his matter ns humour,
which, in spots, his paper boifs over with. Here &
a par. in which the scarcity of other points is only
equalled by the s Jddenness of its fall-stops. Trr
save commenting on the features of the item wo
italicise:—“ Mary Ann Lovelock had a narrow
e cape on Monday last from eatiny sardiries. yho
girl is a servant in the emplov of Mr. M. Brodziak.
It appears that she partook of the contents of a tint
of sardines and shortly after she commenced to
swell until her ciotbe3 iiu rally burst Mr. Brod-
ziak exhibited a mustard emetic which relieved the
sufferer who is now quite well again after being
laid up in bed all day on Tuesday. _ One cannot be
too careful in using tinned fish which is very often
quite unfit for human food.” Ob, we must chirp.
Tbe little Lynch-ophone, please (glasees by
Lynch):—
Now, Courier, look here,
If you would funny be,
Just mind your stops, young man,
And keep the “stri t tj.T.’
Did Mary Ann or uot
Eat of those same sardine.* ?
From first part of your par.
bhe reader scarcely g eaus.
We’ye marked the little parts
Which strike us as most merry—
Adieu, dear boy, your hand,
You re funny, funny, very.
Mr. J. 0. Bray, Chief Beoretary of South
Australia (who, by the bye, has recently become a
conver; to Prßectim), is a p.etty cunning man,
and k?ows howto git out of a fix when he finds
himself in one. When Mr. Stuart Cumberland,
the celebrated thought-reader, was holding a
seance recently in Adelaide, Mr. Bray was one of
the subjects upon whom he operated. When the
Chief Secretary was asked to fix his attention on
the most charming a id beautiful lady in the room
he selected another man’s wife who was in the
room, although Mrs. Bray was there too. The
be miiful lady was ?oon discerned by the thought-
reader who handed her a bouquet and the audi-
ence cheered There was one face, however, that
smiled not, and that was Mrs Bray s. As soon as
Mr. nray saw the fix he was in and the unpleasant
experience he was likely to have when his better
half met him at home he vouchsafed an explana-
tion. He declared that when he was requested to
think of th 3 most beautiful, he at once thought
of his own wife, but fearing that that would not
tax the powers of the thought-reader, who would
certainly, he thought, pick out Mrs. Bray, he
directed his attention to the other fair dame.
Those present applauded this specious excuse,
and Mrs. Bray confessed herself satisfied. So
should we if we had been in her placa. Is it not a
well-known fact that married politic'ans never
gaze at other men’s wives ?
Dr. Barnard, health officer at Hobart, is a
bachelor, and has nR aDy unmarried sisters.
These facts account for the firmness with which
he refused pratique to H.M.S. Diamond (which
entered the harbour with typhoid.fever on board)
when Captain Clayton ‘ came to Hohart expressly
to give the ladies a dance.” Cruel! tb disappoint
the girls of their “br/.es-bound prayer-books”
for a mere trifle like tj t hoid.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
On Saturday night, at Eoley’s rooms, Syd-
ney, over 1000 persons were present to witness a
genuine display of the scientific use of Nature’s
weapons, and the value of this branch of athletic
education in protecting one man's frontispiece
from collision with another's energetic “dukes. ’
Amongst those in attendance were Ministers of
the Crown, officials high in office, reputable busi-
ness men, and others whose patronage gave to the
entertainment provided a tone of respectability
which the ring of late has unfortunately lacked.
The fact that these people each and all paid a
crown in advance for the privilege of being
present proves, that whatever its fate elsewhere,
the ring and its gallant sport are still popular in Syd-
ney. There are those wno say the game is rough,
cruel, and brutal, but to these we would remark,
casually, it is neither. With boxing-gloves of the
full size, and in a fight under the QueensbBry
rules, a man cannot be seriously injured even
though he be “knocked out,” knocked silly, or
UDable to come to time. A cold shower, a nip of
brandy, and a rub down will, in ninety-nine oases
out of a hundred, fetch the most badly-
finished glove-fighter round inside an hour
and victor and vanquished may “ smile ” early in
the eveniDg over their several mistakes in stop-
ping, crossing, countering, andmissiog. The i em
par excellence was the six-round fight between
Mick Dooley and Professor Jackson, of which
anon. The hall was crowded before 8 o’clock, and
“ half-casers ” were refused ere the silvery chimes
sounded the hour at which the trouble would
commence. Foley had listened to the silvery
chimes since 7 p.m., and looked fit to listen Sill the
cows came home—he wasn’t tired. The brother a
Williams opened the ball, with old Dave Ingram as
ringmaster, sponge, and bottle-holder. They
fought a smart four rounds, and retired to make
way for Fogarty and Pablo Frank. The latter
fought a pretty battle, and surprised his bulky
opponent into an activity of which he is not
usually guilty. The Maori had the best of it all
the way. At 845 p.m , Mick Dooley jumped on the
stage attended by Jack Hall and Ned Fogarty.
Shortly afterwards Jackson stepped into the ring
with his attendants. Seme slight difficulty was
experienced in fitting the mittens on to tne big
Professor, but after the veteran fighter, Thomp-
son, had inserted his fist, they were stretched suffi-
ciently for the purposes of the engagement. The
nature of the contest (s x rounds, or a finish)
being explained, Mr. Jonu Tnompsoa chosen
as referee, and the champion amateur as
t me-keeper, the trouble at once commenced.
Dooley was nervous ana Jackson cautious, a
few hlls were given when the
eb m-hued slogger dropped on to the mark, and,
following bis lead, fooght Dooley right on to the
ropes in close vicinity 10 a knock-out, which tne
young ’uu cleveily avoided by clineaiog. Retir-
ing to thtir corners, tne applause was deafening,
and level moEey ana 6 to 4 on Dooley were eagerly
offered with lew takers, though odd cish beis in
sovir.-igns were made. On time being called,
Dooley came up smiling gamely, whea the b g ’uu
got to work, aid at lhe end of the round had his
piucky opponent fighting the unres sting air,
while he, fresh as paint, dealt it out hot and heavy
every time. Tnough beaten and fairly knocked
our. of time, Dooley refused to acknowledge him-
s;,f vanquished, and with apluck, which promises
well for nls future success in the r.og, stepped
gamely out for the third and last round. The big
un, smiling and confident, briskly met him, and,
getting on at once, Knocked the gallant lad all
abroad in the opening rally, when Foley, with a
wisdom born of loDg experience, pulled Dooley’s
mitten tff and “skied ” it. We were sorry for the
youth Dooley, whose pluck was a bit ahead of his
) jdgmeut iu this case. He might have flown at
smaller game, and, like some other one horse
knockers-out, claimed a champion's title, but he
flew for the top bird on the twig, and -missed him.
* ♦ *
The billiard championship of Victoria has
o ice again changed nands- Power, after twice
defeating Byrne, has in turn had to knock under
t) Memott. None of the form shown, however,
has been very grand, and there is no doubt that
Harry Evans can give either of the three men 500
points in a 1000 and an easy beating. What
Roberts or Peall could give them it would be hard
to say.
• » *
The reputation of a man of muscle lives
often for a time alter his death—if he dies young.
Occasionally it dies before, and ere he is dead he
and his performances are forgotten. Some artist
ja the remembering racket rakes up the following
feats of poor Whistler:—“l saw him lift an iron
bar weighing 13501 b., and then, nicking it up,
walked 30ft. before dropping it. Whistler was re-
garded as the strongest of all wrestlers, having
once gone through the manual of arms with a bar
of iron Bft. long weighing 1401 b. By forming a
bridge, head on one chair and heels on another,
Whistler could hold 2000 on his chest.” And yet
Roederer knocked him out easily. The old story—
the bottle and the bier.
* * *
At Canterbury Races the sun shone out in
his best style, rather much to the discomfort of the
unfortunates in the Leger Reserve wha go so far
to make a race meeting a success, but are over-
looked by the committee. Rebus started favourite
for the Flying Stakes, and getting well away won
from start to finish a couple of lengths away
from Leumeah, Abergeldie third. Bourke de-
feated Agricola by a length, for the Selling Race;
Comus won the March Handicap after a grand
finish with Bonnie Bee, Ellington third; Robin
Hood annexed the Prince of Wales Stakes, a
length and a half away from Sundial, Laurel
third; and Fuse finished the sport by winning the
Ladies’ Mile from Tarrapee, Binalong running into
a place.
* * *
We are not aware whether Kelso has re-
signed his popular colours of rose and black, but
we noticed on Saturday that Ellington run under
Oxenham’s colours.
• * *
The cricketing public will be sorry to hear
that our own “ Ted ” Evans was so overcome with
his sea-voyage to Adelaide that he had to retire
from the field on the second day of the match. It
is not often a substitute has taken his place, and
it is to be hoped he will have successfully wrestled
with mal-de-mer long before he reaches England,
for there is no man in the team whose success on
the English turf is more wished for than “ Ted
Evans.
* * *
Over 10,000 persons attended the Melbourne
Bicycle Club's Intercolonial amateur meeting on
Melbourne Cricket Ground last Saturday. Sydney-
ites carried off the one-mile open race, the three-
mile open race, and the obstacle race, but they
reoeived a heavy knock over Wood’s defeat in the
mile intercolonial championship. Wood led for
three laps, when he shut up like a jack-knife, and
Con. Dwyer, the Victorian, won the race in 2min.
52 l-ssec , beating all previous grass-reoords. The
mile maiden bicycle race fell to R Stewart, of
Melbourne; H. Stokes, of Melbourne, won the
mile tricycle race; the open mile was carried off
by F. C. Evans, of Sydney; A. E. Edwards, Sydney,
annexed the mile obstacle race; andF. C. Evans,
Sydney, won the open three miles.
* • *
Johnston’s Bay was all life on Saturday
afternoon, when five heats of Floyd’s dingy handi-
cap were gone through. A steamer laden with
onlookers followed the various heats, and anything
like a close race between the bullockers raised the
excitement to fever pitch. Gleaves, Robinson,
Cartright, and Fitzhenry are left In the handicap,
and will row the final on Saturday next.
• * *
The Balmain Sailing Club had a grand
muster for their handicap hurry scurry race on
Saturday last, the starters being:-Triton, scratch;
Viking scratch; Adelphi, scratch; Nereus, lann.;
Buttercup, lenin.; Elalno, 2min.; Agues, 3min.;
* sa Breeze, 3H nin.; Waveney. 4tnin.; Young
Walter, 7min.; Omega, 7min ; Our Boys, 8mlm;
Hophia. Bnin.; Vision, lOmin. The ever wefi-
liaodled Adelphia came in first, find the bQflt«
finished in the following order:—Adelphi, sh.
12min. 40aec ; Triton, sh. llmin. 60sec.; Buttercup,
sh. 16miu. 27sec.; Waveney, 5h- 18 min. 125e0.;
Nereus, sh. 18min. 505e0.; Agnes, sh. 20min. 195e0.;
Elaine, sh. 20min. 19aec.; Sophia, sh. 20min. 555e0.;
Our Bovs? sb. 22aain. lOaec ; Sea Breeze, sh. 22min.
555e0.; VikiDg. sh. 24min. 205e0.; Vision. sh. 25min.
40sec.; Omega, sh. 26min. 40seo. By time allow-
ance, therefore, the placed boats were Adelphi,
Sophia, and Our Boys, in the order named. It was
a great set-to between the two last named 16-
footers, built by Ellis and Donnelly respectively,
and Mr. C. Cameron may stick a feather in his cap
over defeating the well-known professional
George Fletcher.
* * *
It is reported that the N.Z. Stud Co. has in-
vested in a horse named Dan Godfrey, at the figure
of4ooo guineas, but we doubt if there is any truth in
the rumour, at all events so far as the prioe is con-
cerned. Dan Godfrey was advertised In the Eng-
lish papes last season to serve thoroughbred
mares at 10 guineas, winners or dams of winners
free. He is by Musket out of Orchestra, and is
described as a powerful horse, standing 16 hands 1
inch.
* * *
The sawdust-worriers are on the warpath
again, and Sydney is to be inflicted with another
six days’ agony, commencing Anril 12th. The
match is between Edwards and Seott, the New
Zealander who recently defeated Hancock, the
Englishman who came to the Antinodes with such
a big reputation. The stakes are £2OO aside.
■ * *
Golding, of Balmain, the builder who
turned out the smart little 20 footer, Nereus, has
just finished a 22-foot half-decker, which, we are
sorry to hear, is bound for Brisbane. The finish is
not to be surpassed, and GoldiDg has put in a new
idea in the snaps of movable lockers, which can
be taken out and leave her a mere shell for racing.
Her deck is of polished rosewood, and looking at
her model we should say she will show the way to
a few of them up North.
* * *
Richard Matthews, the Yankee boxer,
who rode rough shod over N.Z., was matched at
’Frisco against a heavy weight, C. Lange. If suc-
cessful in this contest, it was Matthews’ stated in-
tention to issue a challenge to all comers. It is not
generally known that before Matthews weDt ta
N.Z. ho had a “gallop” in private with Peter Jack-
son. Jackson had a hundred to one the best of the
encounter, and, should Matthews prove successful
in the States, it will be a “line” as to what show
our boxers would have in that direction.
• t »
A N.Z. paper says that in a jumping
match for 10 sovs. between Mr. Wallace’s circus
horse Silamander and Mr. Woodman’s horse Zet-
land, the last-named, ridden by a Keith, was the
first to jump, and clearing a post and rail s:t 4in.
in heignt, and then getting over an iron «ate and
wire fence, so frightened the owner of Salamander
that he would not risk his horse, and forfeited the
stakes.
* • *
The next good Sydney boxing event which
looks like eventuating is the meeting of the
champion amateur aud a young gentleman at
North Shore, who covets the title. The Bhoreites
say their man can be backed for a £5O trophy, but
“ The Shore ” was over famous for contain-
ing the greatest “ skiters ” in the country, always
ready with a champion who is never forthcoming,
and it remains to be seen if they are at the “ same
old game ” in this instance.
- • •
Young Murphy, the light-weight of N.Z.,
made short work of King, in Sydney, on Satur-
day night He is a slight but wiry lad, and shapes
in a peculiar style, but he has a right hand which
he dashes in to some purpose, and we should very
mucl like to see him accept the odds offered by
George Powell.
• ra ■
The Electra had rather a soft thing on on
Saturday last, in the outside race, pleasure suits
only, as the Eleetra’s every-day clothes are also
her Sunday-go-to-meetings. The Electra sailed
outside like a witch, and defeated the Waitangi
by a shade over half-an-hour. The Electra has
proved herself so well under the yawl rags, that
Mr. Fitzhardinge should be sorely tempted next
season to put her under cuttor-rig, and have a
shy in at the Magic.
a a •
Tom Giblin, of sporting celebrity, late
proprietor of the Cal 6 Franoais, Sydney, left by
the Cuzoo for a holiday in England. Tom, it is
understood, cleared out because his landlord had
raised the rent. He is succeeded by Mrs. Bowes,
a buxom Melbourne widow—relict of Mr. W. P.
Bowes—well-remembered as a cross-country
horseman. Mr. Curran, landlord of Pfahlert’s
Hotel, also goes to the old oountry at once—
£so,ooo richer, it is said, than he was six or seven
years ago He will he in time to take a seat in
the Irish Parliament.
* * *
Mr. Tom Curran, late champion pugilist
of Australia, is now proprietor of the Derby Hotel,
Gertrude-street, Melbourne. Tom has developed
into a somewhat stately and very jovial gentle-
man with a ready wit, and is brimful of interest-
ing anecdotes of his eventful and chequered
career. In telling his varied adventures the
slight tinge of American accent he has acquired
through having mixed so much with the citizens
of that oountry, rather adds to than detracts from
his quiintneis of delivery.
» * *
“ Rough on Rats ” would be a fit beading
for the speech delivered by the chairman of the
Goulburn Turf Club (Mr. J. J. Roberts) at the
settling up-over the last race meeting. Some of
the first-water hypocrites, it appears, had cau-
tiously whispered that they would dearly like to
patronise the sport, but they were afraid of losing
the custom of the genuine goody-goodies, who
seem to rule the roast at Goulburn. This set the
worthy chairman on the kick at once, and amongst
other things he said, “This religious cry against
racing is not honest, because the men who cry
down racing on religious grounds do so for
£. s. d., but in the next few years the rising genera-
tion wi'l not be so narrow-minded. I saw some
time ago in a sermon that Goulburn was called a
religious city. I don’t think it is any thing of the
kind, and I declare before my Maker that I never
saw more hypocrisy anywhere. I have been in
South Australia, in Victoria, and in New Zealand,
and I declare again, before my Maker, that in all
my experience—and I have been in good company
and in bad—l never saw so much genuine
hypocrisy as in Goulburn. And I say also that
some of the so-called religious men in Goulburn,
who condemn racing, would not be an ornament,
even to a racecourse. They sail under false
colours—and I don’t think anything could be
worse than that.” Prayers have been offered up
in all the local churches for this misguided man
ever since, but the general belief in Houlburn is
that when he runs his race he’ll pull up at that
post where “ Tom-and- Jerry a” are a drug in the
market, and iced shandies at a premium.
* * *
Double Bay Sailing Club had its hurry
scurry race on Saturday last, when Lottie
(scratch), Bronte ilmin.), Eula (3min.), Clytie
(7min.), and the Wanganella (lOmin.) put in an
appearance. The Lottie came to grief and the
boats finished Clytie. Bronte. Eula, and Wanga-
nella. Like most round-sided, brig-bottomed
boats, the Lottie is very treacherous, and put her
crew in the gutter. We were In the Lottie the
first day she sported racing canvas, and she very
nearly put her crew in the “ big swim.” Poor
George Montgomery was at the tiller, and there
was soarcely any wind, off Ball’s Head, when a
hot westerly puff struck her, and she fairly wal-
lowed with her big side under water. The crew
were out on her like a shot, but It was more by
(rood luck than anything else that she recovered
herself.
* # *
The return cricket mateh between repre-
sentatives from the offices of Sydney Daily
Telegraph and Bulletin is arranged for Thurs-
day, the Bth April, on the Association Ground.
Messrs. Crone, Shepherd, Curry, Carrington, Jones,
Patterson, Robinson, Davis, Freoker, Niohol. and
Twyman, will probably appear for the Tele-
graph, and Messrs. W. H. and T. Traill, East,
Lewis, BlaGket, Flick. Broadbent, Reynolds, Jones,
Hamilton, and Gleason for the Bulletin. With
line weather another pleasant meeting should re-
sult. There is one thing we like to notice about
these bold Press-cricketers—they generally re-
member the golden rule when a catch comes to
them in the out-fleld.
* * *
The N S.W. patrons of Rugby football
learn with regret that the proposed visit to Aus-
tralia this season of an English team has been
abandoned. All that the lovers of rough-and-
tumble can now look forward to is the visit of a
N S.W. team to N.Z,, and a look-in from the
Queensland champions.
• • •
The Sydney University Club mean still
further to improve the Oval. In a very short
timo a number of the unemnloyed will be put on
to cut away a large portion of the ground between
the centre and the pavilion. It Is intended to
spend upwards of £5OO on this ground, and
amoDgst the contemplated improvements is the
erection of anew pavilion in lieu of the "cow-
shed ” which now does duty.
It is to Society, a London journal, one in-
stin tively turns wben, tired of tne small beer and
vulgarity of colonial topics, he wishes to hear
something of the doings of that great world of
fashion, the dim echoes of whose cultivated life
havi g c'oesed a hemisphere fall, often unheeded,
on these distant shores. It is like the air of the
mouutain top after the sodden atmosphere of the
tropic coast—like the civil circvlez messieurs s'U
vous plait of the yens d'armes to the “givan homo
av you’re since ’* ot the Woolloomoolo bol/by—to
take up Society after an hour spent over coionial
journals You strike a different social stratum—
e-cape from the mal-odour of hutcherdom and
publicanum and reach a land where every tenth
man is a German Royal Highness, end every
seventh woman a nationally-subsidisen nrince s
And tbeD Ihs blistering contempt for those ill-in-
formed journalists who presume to give an
opinion on matters beyond them. Listen:
“Princess Christian is better, hut hot progress to-
wards convalescence is necessarily slow. We were
considerably amused at a paragraph, in the daily
papers on Monday giying substantially the same
information with regard to Her Royal Highness
which we gave our readers last week, and which
is entirely opposed to their own previous pro-
nouncements, and to the wise speculations of the
learned Lancet, In fact, all our contemporaries
have been wrong throughout, and up to this
week, about the Princess’s indisposition. The In-
formation we have given has been lutboritative
and accurate in every particular. We have known
from the first the nature of the Princess's illness, and
have watched with some amusement the flounderings
of professedly weU-informed jowrncts. Rest, rest,
as the one thing needful, is what we have insisted
upen from the beginning in the teeth of tb‘» per-
sistent cries of other journals. . . It is inferred
she had somewhat overworked, herself before
taking her customary autumnal holidays.” Is it
any wonder that the editor of Society eat back in
his chair grimly sarcastic at what he calls the
“silly nonsense on the part of papers that evi-
dently know nothing whatever of the facts of the
oase ?” This tendency on the part of Press
writers to insouciantly give their opinions on
matters entirely above them —to, as it wtre,
shove their little shovel in when there’s no
mud should be put down with a strong
hand. Some of them no sooner get the run of
Mayfair kitchens, with an occasional 5 o’clock tea
In the pantry, than they put on airs and give
entirely misleading i ews regarding the drawing-
room and boudoir. We know nothing so provo-
cative of mirth among the well-informed as the
stupldily inaccurate views ventilated by literary
backs concerning the doings and ailments of the
great Borgia 1 How the scissors man ef Society
mußt have curled up with contemptuous caehin-
nationas he read the shallow guesees made by
those parasites regarding Princess Christian’s in-
disposition! And the artful dog knowing all the
time that Her Royal Highness only wanted a
little rest, “ havlDg overworked herself oefore
taking her customary autumnal holidays I” We
most forget. Society has lately taken to record-
ing the daily lives of colonists of •* light and
leading” residing in England. We see by it
that Mr. Henniker Heaton, having proved his
descent from the court falconer of toe second
Plantagenet, is now a constant guest in the
first houses. Half the nobility of England are on
his visiting list, and the least N.S.W. can expect
is that, ere long, the name of her favourite son
may find its fitting place in the golden hook of
the British peerage. Years ago, when sharing
with Henniker our humble-pie in the Evening
News office, and seeing him dash off “ Harrowing
occurrence in George-street—a hoy hurt,” we
knew he was noble. Even when his mouth was
full of mince, the proud, supercilious sneer of the
Plant lingered round the corners. Ah! ces
heaux jours! Still, it is pleasant to think that
“society” has taken him up, and that—Who
knows?—it might have been he who ksew all
along what was the matter with Princess Christian,
while even the Lancet was liounderiDg hopelessly
in the slough of doubt. H. was always deep and
shy.
A Melbourne correspondent of a Northern
<0 ) paper writes chirpily and airily as under: “We
have a couple more murders, but nothing of
much interest. As to suicides, a couple a week
would be a fair average. This is a dreadfully
suicidal colony. As soon as a man has played his
game and lost it, he doesn’t bother about a fresh
start, but marches off down to the Yarrs, after
having had the best “ booze ” he can get, and takes
a header. Four or five days afterwards he re-ap-
pears as a member of the bloated aristocracy of
the morgue. Dr. You), the coroner, swearsa jury,
amuses a reporter or two with a " funny ” anec-
dote, and a verdict of temporary insanity is re-
corded. Amen.” Hum. This doesn’t ssem like
giving the corpse a fair trial. But he cares not.
Why should he ? His troubles are over :
Small care has the corpse, his days are ended,
What recks he now what the world may say;
The soul from the earth has heav’nward wended,
Can man do aught with the worthless clay ?
“His troubles,” he’s dead, friends tuck him under:
Feast for the earth worm, ’neath the ground,
That plunge in the stream, his final blunder,
“ Mad as a hatter “Drinks all round.”
Next corpse, please.
Be warned in time and take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps a powerful and whole-
some tonic.
GQMPABNONI GATERING SO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
/TIHE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
npiTt "room nnw noftn. A Grill can Le had at any time from 8 a.m* to 9 p*m» Select your
A|SS * IW - - * the """tv
Victorious. Victorious.
Victorious.
ST. JAQOB3 OIL.
Sr. JACOBS OIL.
The Brat Fail Coa^uaror.
TOOTHACHE CURED IN 15 MINUTES,
LUMBAGO IN 45 MINUTES.
Prahran, Melbourne,
22 ad January, 1886.
The Cbas. A. Vogeler Company.
Gentlemen,—l thins It right to let you know the
effect of your oil in a case of Lumbago- About
three weeks since I had a very severe attack. I
poured a little oil into a saucer, damped a piece of
lineD, and laid it across my lions; put a wet cloth
over that, and an oilskin over the whole. I then
lay down for about three quarters of an hour,
after which I got up, took the compress off,
washed my back with a little warm water, and the
result was that the Lumbago had completely gone.
Persons using St. Jacobs Oil will find the compress
much more effectual than rubbing.
The other night my servant was nearly mad with
tootaohe, and when she had exhausted her own
little stock of remedies without obtaining relief,
I took a few pieces of wadding, saturated them
with the oil, placed one bit in the tooth and the
other in the ear on the same side, and in fifteen
minutes she was comfortably asleep.
Tours faithfully,
JOHN TAYLOR.
(Mr. Taylor is the oldest Traveller in the employ
of Messrs. Jas. M'Ewan and Co., of Melbourne.)
S P. JACOBS OIL.
CURES WOUNDS AND BRUISES.
TRY IT.
25 Little Edmund-etreet, off Riley-street. Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have pleasure in giving you my
personel experience of ST. JACOBS OiL, and
trust you will make It public in the interest of
suffering humanity.
Some months since l was set upon by a bull
whilst crossing a paddock, knocked down, and
severely bruised about the body and legs, sustain-
ing an awful bruise on the ankle, inflicted by his
horns whilst lylDg on the ground. The painwas most
excruciating, and, after making my escape, 1 tried
turpentine, oil, and all manner of remedies with-
out the slightest relief, until I applied ht. Jacobs
Oil. Almost instantly the pain left me, and the
swelling disappeared. I have since used it for
rheumatic pains in the knee and leg, and always
with the most beneflc'al result. Jn fact, whenever
I am in bodily pain of any kind I fly to St Jacobs
O 1, and give it now my heartiest recommendation.
YtP, 1 have used it for rheumatism, when I have
b:eu nearly crippled, and found immediate relief.
Yours gratefully,
J. BUOKMAN.
ST. JACOBS OIL is the best known specific
for
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, GOUT,
TOOT ACHE. BACKACHE. EARACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES. MUSCULAR STIFF-
NES , and SORENESS
of any kind.
Daily endorsed by thousands
of Grateful Bjneflciaircs and the Press,
and the Recipient of
TWO INTERNATIONAL
and Numerous Local GOLD MEDALS.
HEALTH AND BEAUTY.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
NEW DEBIGNL PARIS WOVE.
LATEST STYLES.
We have received a full assortment of these
splendid goods, in entirely new designs, and as
their curative properties are so well known that
no description is necessary, we annex a few testi-
monials from local authorities, and shall publish
others from time to time, as evidence of their uni-
versal popularity.
DR SCOTT’S ELECTRIC COBSETF JR HEALTH,
COMFORT AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
QueanbeyaD, N.S.W.,
September 21, 1885,
Gentlemen.—Having suffered very much with
internal pains and backache, I was recommended
to try one of Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, with the
most satisfactory results They are, in my opinion,
a great public boon, ,and I do not intend wearing
any other. With ttrsfhks. Yours truly,
Mrs. A. MYERS.
. &
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC BfiLTS.
AN ENGINEER’S TESTIMONY
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the ss. North-
umbria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past
twenty-five years, sends us the following state-
ment:— “ About seven oreignt years ego 1 sprain-
ed my back in lifting an anchor, end from that
time until I eame to you for a belt I never was
well. Excruciating pains in the back and muscles
used to attack me with alarming persistency until
really I could never depend on freedom for a
single day. Having tried so many ineffectually,
you cannot wonder that I purchased your Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belt with considerable misgiving;
but I am happy to tell you that sinoe commencing
to wear it I have been entirely relieved, and have
not suffered from any of my old symptom# since.
lam now completely cured; and there are scores
of men in the coastal trade to whom I have re-
commended it, who, from peronsal experience, can
speak as highly of it as myself.”
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
54 MARQaRET-STREET, SYDNEY


The Cat Again.
At Brisbane—the old convict settlement of More-
ton Bay—where, the other day, a prisoner was al-
lowed to die in chains because “ they wasn’t con-
sidered calculated to accelerate his death ’’—some
brutes, in authority have get hold of one Daniel
Carmichael, a miserable convict whom they ap-
parently delight in periodically skinning alive.
Every week or two we read that Daniel has been
“flogged again”—that he has got “fifty” or
“forty” lashes, and has been removed with a
skinless jellyflea back to the gaol hospital. A lot
of the aristocracy of Brisbane must be in great
Trials OFFICC
The Legislative Council will reject Mr. Melville’s
Bill as rather personal to parties with one foot in the
grave, A
The Act provides that all persons
hitherto buried shall he declared ille-
gally so, and that they must be re-
interred by the originator of this Act.
Jrni noTnir ia(=A<n w,
/LAi>r Th J~»Pfof «»
A* AArt AjTA<HM(^i*
1 ftei e PHor/t
( C■ iPfAtitrt, Ti/t)t
\s . B£lL
£.
s-J+UhiJuhU
sp/rt/fd
**<W»|4* Jr],. 1
£ fodCMst# J I
'jfMnJJ liffiUjl l
ir/ose trirTfron MN foe %w*r>
£y yj,e fgaWinment l/ndertdterib
/>rs 'Window drsf>/dy, f^ e &4d//Ae
fiaWecify CWnd/c/ w/Th rfe yu/o* f c /
/n y>// /Ae </A<?sf/y de fa/A of
A'S &<*/(/-.
f'Mr. Melville tfill introduce a
Bill for the Regulation of *
BhriaU X
There will be a Government Department for Bu-ials, ami
nothing in this Act shall prevent, the framer thereof being
offered the Portfolio of Minister for Mortuary Matters,
/s life
iVOfly h Lt/-
(Nqt .
SCARCELY .
DORi*l "RATti
To Cu/fis AT
HepuobD
Da nOConnor
WILL &PAK 6
at Town Ha li
Ta NIG.HT
SopTECT.
Pam 1 - J)£NiH£y
I'lC.feßiA fltpn »•'■
ff <•/. t i. pi'
V
t,J£ 11 mpiusl
MD l ] Lmiof Tllem 1
Section 2 J provides that aU amateur under-
takars wlm shall, for their own use or amuse-
ment, make their own coffins shalj suffer a line
Sot more than £790,000.000,000, and a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 1699 years and 0
jmonths-,
j All Undertaking shall bo
a Government toohopdly,
and every inducement shall
be held out to people to die
early and often.
\•£*+*<* a*/
r iZ-d&t-j &Y &*<y
&o CZ^IZ-t,r\^JS^
/(- Sj' //£*
- /UUA.ioL 4^JUwrc* /> E. /<*
;
/ cn-
j&a-ejt <4-<_ t*c£Lsin*-*<-'
'*“ *~^cZZ f ZZ*ssy~ -/^
_*L fi *-* --?" i f- ■
pi.***
/Vy
y
/ <" ///..
A\<' V /a"
I) ?,y p>y
--/ I* l o' tV
yiJ; <Ay
|1
Seotion 41144 provides that any “ body ” treated in the
usual manner, and regularly screwed down, shall bo con-
sidered as constructively dead within the meaning of this
Aek
ghould, however, suoh body, so treated
Rnd screwed down, maun had any signs of
life, the physician iw charge of the cam;
shall be sent for at once to liiuyh las job.
If tke deceased uuist upon coming to
life in spite of the doctos, end shall per*
Blatently decline to be decently or other-
wise buried, his acts shall in no wise affect
the claims of the undertaker *in charge
Said deceased must pay tot his coffin &u
the same.
The N.S.W. Minister for Graveyards.
“Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P. (who is himself an undertaker), has given notice of his intention to submit to the N.S.W, Parliament a bill for regulating the Interment of
the Dead.”— Daily Paper,
fettle just now—in American phrase, they must
“feel good.” They have (we quote from an
approving local print which is obviously delighted
that a barbarous instrument of torture, how
long and with the happiest disciplinary results
discarded from the army and navy, is once
more literally in full swing among the
erring civil population)-they have beoome
possessed of “an ex-mili<ary man who does
not”—e are astonished he should be thus
modest in a place where his admirers are so in-
fluential and nuiEerous— “ wish bis came to trfinc-
p.re. He is ove Oft. high and tremendously mus-
cular, and, as he bas carefully studied his duties
and taken care to require the needful manual
dexterity, he will be of great service not only in
connection with the last offices of the law, but
also in dealing with those classes of ruffians for
whom the Legislature has. with such good results,
prescribed the punishment of the lash. He is to
have the title of State Executioner and Scourger.
Well, this stipendiary skinner and suff ocater made
his professional debut on Daniel aforesaid, who,
according to latest accounts, was still being flogged.
He got 50 lashes in the first instance, which made
his back into jelly, after which he was half led,
half-oarried back to his cell in a but oartia'ly sen-
sible condition.” At the second flogging the
punishment was toe great for his endurance and,
owing to the interposition of the Government
medical officer, he only received a portion of his
allotted numbs* of lashes. Here is an account of
Daniel’s mast recent skinning:
“ The flogging was announced to take plaoe at 9
o’clock this morcicg; at that hour everything was
in readiness, but a painful delay ensued owiDg to
the absence of Dr. Hobbs, the Government medical
officer. Carmichael was very prostrated after his
first punishment, and looked forward with terror
to the next, but since his last flogging he had been
completely unmanned, and it was feared the
ordeal of a third flogging would be too much for
him At 9 o’clock there were no signs of Dr.
JHobbs, a cab was despatched for him. and a period
"bf suspension took place. Dr. Hobbs arrived
eventually at a quarter to 10, and a move was
immediately made to the hard-labour yard, where
the triangle was erected. .... Carmichael,
who was dressed in the ordinary prison costume,
was conducted to the triangle, and looked the
picture of abject terror, his face pale and con-
torted, and the muscles of his back and legs
quivering with fright. His shirt was taken
off, and the marks of his previous flog-
gings were plainly visible on his broad
back. As the warders were strapping him
up to the triangle he complained that his
legs were strapped too tightly, but the warders
assured him that he would be able to stand it
better If his legs were fastened tightly to the pad-
ding that Intervened between his limbs and the
wooded framework. Turning to Dr. Hobbs Car-
michael said, ‘O, doctor, tell him to be quiok about
it., tell him to be quick about it; oh, Godl oh,
God I' and, leaning his head against his left arm,
commenced moaning piteously. The doctor, no-
ticing his extreme weakness and terror, ordered
brandy to he administered. The executioner now
entered the yaid, clad only in shirt and trousers,
aDd bearing in his hands the dreaded cat-o’-nine
tails. He at once took up his position on the left
of Carmichael, and as the head turnkey called one
the laSh fell, eliciting a loud groan from the
prisoner. The lash fell with pitiless regularity
and great rapidity; but it was evident that the ex-
ecutioner was laying it on very lightly; neverthe-
less Carmichael groaned at every stroke, and for
the first 15 lashes kept wailing to the executioner,
‘Oh, have merGy, have mercy!’ His head then
sank between his arms, and there he remained
moaning pitifully untii the 40 lashes had been
administered. The punishment, compared with
his fofmhr floggings, was trifling, and though bis
back was sharply marked at .the first stroke
blood did not appear until about the thirtieth lash.
When the last lash had fallen he was immediately
taken dowD, and by Dr. Hobbs’s orders was given
some more brandy, while water was poured on big
head. He was completely broken down, and still
moaned as two warders supported him across the
yard back to his cell. Halfway aoross he stopped
and retched violently, although be seemed unable
to vomit.”
An apology is due for inflicting upon readers
the mental flogging involved in the publica-
tion, In a so-called Christian country, of the
foregoing hideous narrative, the only merciful
feature in which—namely the administration of
brandy to the tortured wretch-is a complete
demonstration of how illogical is the savage
system which has so firm an hereditary hold on the
minds of Australians. Brandy is a narcotic drug
If, law-maffer, you give your writhing victim
brandy, why do not you give him chloroform or
morphia? When will those who are r,sponsible
for our Statutes learn that the most extreme tor-
tures inflicted in the name of law are bad in effect
inasmuch as they disgust the good and brutalize
the bad, and, as acts of violence, teach violence to
the people ?


PEPPER AND SALT.
The British Constitution requires strength-
ening with some more beer, so Sir Henry Allsopp
has been raised to the Peerage. A shrewd policy
dictates ennoblements such as this. They are
all sops to a wealthy and powerful clique:
Oh, what a happy land is England ! The
following little ballad explains how a farmer
ordered his servant to go to church under penalty
of getting no dinner; how the servant objeoted
and took his “hook; ” how he was summoned by
the farmer for leaving him without permission,
and how the local magistrate expounded the law on
the subject. The farmer’s name is Appleyard, and
he resides in Yorkshire. Tune up I
There was a certain yokel, and he didn’t love the
Lord;
He wouldn’t go to church at all, not of his own
accord,
And so it came to pass that on a certain Sabbath
day
His master sternly ordered him to run along and
pray.
But oh I that wicked yokel’s heart was very, very
hard—
He wouldn’t take a hymn-book, and he wouldn’t
stir a yard;
So master up and told him—very proper on the
whole—
That he shouldn’t have his dinner if he didn’t feed
his soul.
Thought that irreligious yokel—" Well, my
bloomin’ soul’s my own; ”
So he packed up all his luggage and departed with
a groan,
Which it got him into trouble, and he came before
the “ beak ”
For deserting hired service—" Forty shillings or a
week I ”
Mark well the charge the magistrate delivered to
the hind
(“ Hind ” is English for farm-servant, you must
always bear in mind)—
“ A master has a perfect right to order where and
when
His servant ought to go to church ’’—O happy
Englishmen!
m » •
Master Edward Ma-hoeny, ast. 9, is a
frolicsome youth who promises to make a name
for himself, if he’s not cut off by the present
heavy frosts. From information xeceived it ap-
pears that Edward resides at Luddenham, near
Penrith, and having arrived at the conclusion
that his district wanted livening up a trifle he
undertook the contract, and carried it through in
a style that exceeded even his own most sanguine
expectations. Starting off one morn, just as the
sentinel stars left their watch in the sky, Master
Mahoney turned on all the tank-taps he could
strike, and before he returned home the people
were down on their knees thanking Heaven that
the drought had broken up at last, for the water
was pouring along in all directions. When the
truth dawned on them, however, they took back
their Te Deums, and began to clothe their ideas in
anguage that fitted their theme far better than it
would look in print. When the excitement cooled,
the gentle Edward sallied forth onoe more, up-
rooted fences for miles, smashed windows,
knocked over sheds, and carried on to such an
extent that the people began to think that an
earthquake had struck the place, and were pre-
paring to clear out to some more substantial
sort of district. On the third morning nearly
every fowl in Luddenham was found with
its neck twisted round in the most approved cork-
screw fashion, its beak turned to its tail, and an
expression of holy calm on its countenance which
told that it was done with the cares of this world
for ever. No one dared cook the fowls, as it wa 8
fully believed they had met their deaths from
some supernatural cause. This apparently dis-
gusted Master Ma-hoeny, who calculated on hav-
ing poultry three times a day, and he accordingly
revenged himself by making a bonfire of a shed
containing 20 tons of hay, mowing machines, &c.,
valued at £l5O. Just as he was preparing a fresh
piece of pleasantry, however, the meddling minions
of the law stepped in, and little Edward now wolfs
his bread and jam-especially jam-in a “ dunjin ”
cell. The most reasonable explanation of this case
is that Master Ma-hoeny is another victim to an
inordinate love of Bible-reading. From the nature
and plan of his deeds it is evident that he fancied
himself a sucking Moses, and intended to beat
the Hebrew’s record as champion plague-raiser of
the world. With the guileless innocence of youth,
little Edward pleads that it was a mouse that did
all the damage, but the magistrate smells a rat and
has remanded young Moses for a week. Tbis is a
sad case, and we fear little Edward will grow up to
be a bad man, and die a miserable death, high up
in the Civil service.
* * *
There was joy in a oertain town in the
top end of Queensland a few days ago, for it was
noised abroad that a new medico, who had never
tasted anything stronger than his mother’s milk,
and was a model of morality, had arrived and
opened business. During the previous 12 months
three other sons of Aesculapius had tackled this
particular town, and retired with snakes in their
boots to Woogaroo or some other asylum of rest,
and, consequently, the people now rejoiced with
an exceeding great joy at having a doctor in their
midst at last, who would not require to be chased
through the bush and lassoed and sobered up
every time his professional aid was wanted. A
sense of security that had not been felt for years
before settled down on the people that night as
they retired to rest, and they were sleeping the
sleep of a Government member when a stonewall
Oppositionist is spouting at 4 a.m., when suddenly
the whole town was startled by the furious ring-
ing of the church-bell. Hardly knowing what
to think the panic-stricken citizens rushed out
in the lowest pitch of dishabille, burst into the
church, and there met a sight that made even the
strongest woman tremble, and caused delicate
men to faint away, and rap up the nearest pubs,
for smelling salts and perfumed water. What
they saw at the church was simply their dear
doctor, as corned as liquefied lightninglcould make
him, fastened to the bell-rope, from which he was
doing all he knew in the way of rearing and
plunging to free himself; every bound he gave
causing the bell to ring, and every clang of the
bell encouraging him to redouble his efforts to
escape. It was afterwards discovered that his
sobriety credentials were only just about as true
as they make them now, and he had been “on a
Jamberoo ” all night with some festive townsmen
who thought that lashing him to the bell-rope as
he slept would be a first-class way of initiating
him into the merry life of Northern Queensland.
He was last seen on his way to the South Pole, and
MODERN PROVERB.
(BY OUR OWN JOSH BILLNGS.)
A PULE HEZ BADE: “WAIST NOT, WANT NOT.” BOSH! IP UVE GOT NUTHING TO
WAIST U’RE IN WANT, I REKON, AN EF UVE GOT PLENTE TO WAIST U WANT FOR
NUTHING.
a first-class vacancy still exists in the little town
he came from.
* * *
Among the different dodges adopted by
the noxious animal hunters of N.S.W. to earn an
honest shilling is the prudent practice of lifting
kangaroos’ scalps with the ears attached and then
letting the animals do, or die, at their own discre-
tion. As a rule they do, and, as far as increasing
their species goes, they do remarkably well in"
deed. Sometimes the kangaroo objects to the
operation, and darts off through the bush with his
scalp hanging on by a thread and dancing up and
down like the lid of a kettle on the boil. A few
days ago, a highly-respectable Cootamundra citi-
zen, who earns a precarious living as bellman and
special correspondent of the Even Ooze, saw a
wallaby stumble over a log while running across
a paddock, and the top of its head fell down a
a hole and was lost. He went over and
spent half-an-hour assisting to search for the
missing topknot but without success, after which
the animal remarked that it had a contract for
pulling down 17 miles of wire fencing that day,
and then, leaving its address with the man, it
calmly hopped off. Some kangaroos, it is said,
have been scalped a dozen times, and, in fact,
many of them are now beginning to look upon
the operation in pretty much the same light as a
cleanly citizen does his Sunday shave. Instances
are recorded of wallabies hopping 10 miles to
enjoy a good “ scalping ’’—which the more ex-
perienced of them regard merely as a sort of
shampoo—and a Rock Forest man tells a tale of
one who rapped him up out of bed at midnight to
raise its hair, and not only brought him a nest of
wild honey as payment, but actually heid a candle
while he performed the operation. We can vouoh
for the veracity of the party who reports this, as
he never reads anything but religious journals
and drinks ginger-beer out of a dipper.
THE BEITISH BEER-ACE
All hail I to another brave earl—
Let’s hiccup his praises and fame;
Adored at the club,
Revered at the Dub.
Has long been his popular name;
Pillars and props of the State
Are brewers of liquors that cheer
Bass, Guinness, and Meux
Are equal to dukes—
Blue blood is no better than beer.
All hail! to another brave earl,
A lawgiver up to the eyes,
Whose bitter and mild
We drank as a child,
And ever will gratefully prize.
Another one, Miss, if you please—
How refreshingly frothy and clear!
The joys of his brew
Her Majesty knew—
That’s why she made him a peer.
All hail! to another brave earl—
Most welcome, indeed, in the House;
To govern a land,
You must please understand,
Men only want money—not nous:
And Sir Henry will do very well,
Although the Blue Ribbons may wail—
There's nothing to choose
’Twixt blue blood and booze,
So then, Allsopp the noble, all ale!
When a sudden noise or the least excite-
ment sets your nerves in a tremor, take Wolfe s
Schnapps.
An Ecclesiastical Humorist.
The scoffers who deny that the clergy are
humorists should peruse the subjoined circular,
which speaks for itself Holy Trinity Church,
Dulwiih Hill, West Petersham, Sydney, March 19,
1886, Dear Sir, —The building committee desire
to notify that it is proposed to open the school
church on Saturday afternoon, 10th April, at 3.80
p.m, by the Most Reverend the Primate. The
committee appeal with confidence at this stage of
the undertaking to the subscribers, the public
generally, and any friends of the cause, to assist
them in opening on the above date, by presenting
to the church the following articles of furniture
not yet obtained (s*e overleaf). To prevent the
same things being given by more than one person,
it is requested that donors will signify their inten-
tions to the incumbent, Rev. Jas. Clarke, c/o A. D
Rogers, Esq., Erina, Frazer-road, Petersham.
List of articles required:—American organ; church
bell, from £6 to £11; communion service, silver,
about £3O; electroplate, about £9 and upwards;
alms-dish, brass, £2 ss; 'pulpit, reading-desk,
lectern, font ; two communion cba'rs, from
£1 10s. each and upwards; two book-rests or
cushions for communion table, about, oak £1
brass £2 Bs. ; cushion for pulpit, £2 53. ;
kneeling mat for com. rail, 2s. 6d. per foot;
4 hassocks and 26 kneeling mats, about 6s. each,
and Is. Bd. each; table cover from £sandupwards;
table linen (2 cloths, 4 napkins) about £l4s. and 6s.
each; surplices for 8 boys and 12 men; Yerger’s
black gown; fibre matting for aisle, about 23. 61.
per yard; carpet for the communion, about 4s 6d.
per yard; carpet for the choir, 4s. 6d. per yard;
carpet for the vestry, about 4s. 6d. per yard; mat
for porch, and door-scraper, about 14s. and 63.;
door mat for vestry, about Bs.; set of books—
Bible, Prayer-books, &c.; baptismal register, about
£2 55.; choir hymn books (church hymns), books,
psalters; church book, about £2 55.; inkstand;
stationery; vestry table; row of 35 pegs; looking-
glass, brush, comb, &c.; porch lamp, from £2 ss.
and upwards. As the church will be opened in
about three weeks’time, the committee will feel
truly grateful if the subscribers and any friends
of this church will kindly help as heretofore, tak-
ing advantage of this opportunity to make some
gift that shall remaia a permanent memorial. In-
tending donors are asked to communicate with the
Incumbent as early as possible, as the oommitteo
are striving to have everything in order by the
opening day. A. D. Rogers, hop. sec.”
“ To prevent the same things being given by more
thanone person” is a phrase delightfully sugges-
tive of parsonical experience concerning wed
ding presents, wherein the inevitable fish-slice
and obese little biscuit-barrel are distractingly
re-duplicated. The rev. gentleman can put down
The Bulletin for one of the 35 required pegs—
we have on hand a large supply of such articles,
but they are wanted for the staff, who “ put them
in” on occasion. However, as we are unwilling
to see the opening of the church postponed, and
the spread of the Gospel delayed, by reason of the
fact that the poor clergyman—Heaven help him l—
isn’t supplied with—vanity of vanities, all is
vanity I -a “looking-glass, brush, comb,” &c., we
hereby undertake to get up early any Sabbath
morning and apply the curry-comb and dandy-
brush to any duly accredited representative of
Divine Providence who will wait on us after we
have put a shine on the hide of our old bald-faced
moke. But we wish it to be distinctly understood
by the olergy that we undertake no responsibility
of any description whatsoever concerning the
lookiDg-glass. If any curate wants a mirror and
is hard-up let him look into a stable-bucket.
There are no less than 1115 persons on the
Civil service lists of N.S W. whose positions are
described as merely “ temporary.” The balance
might also be written down “ temporary;” 10 till 4
is their idea of time.
If 20 years ago anyone had invested £4OO
for 100 shares in the Long Tunnel gold-mine, Wal-
halla, Victoria, he would have received by this
time £40,000, say an average of £2OOO yearly, or 500
per cent, per annum, more than £4OO a share hav-
ing been returned in dividends. In 20 years about
284,000 tons of quartz have been crushed and 17
tons of gold extracted therefrom, the value being
£1,600,000. Of tbis amount nearly a million has
been paid in dividends. The lease runs out and
the mine reverts to the State in 12 years.
The Victorian Inspector of Prisons states
that “an Australian type of oriminal is fast com-
ing forward, a few of whose characteristics are —
disregard for constituted authority, recklessness
of consequences, and a want of self-control.” It
is a comfort to hear that we can produce some-
thing new of our own—even a new type of crimi-
nal. But we would respectfully ask the Inspector
to show us a criminal in any country who has a
strong regard for constituted authority, is careful
of consequences, and has perfect self-control.
Tram traffic has long been legalised in Syd-
ney, but some people, who object to steam trams,
stubbornly refuse to pay homage to these govern-
ment’buses by going off the track for them. A
well-known Paddington man (an inquest upon
whose mangled corpse will be held one day) makes
it a point never to give way without a struggle,
and a few days ago another gentleman of fixed
principles led a funeral procession of trams along
the main road of that suburb. The sight oon-
tained cubic yards of fun for everybody who
wasn’t a "fare.”
'Vanderbilt’s wealth prior to his death
would have weighed 7160 tons in silver crown
pieces, yet a simple one-story hearse carried Wil
liam H. Vanderbilt to the grave:—
What odds when Azrael’s seal is set
On brow of princa or boor,
Ten millions would not gain him yet
One single hour more,
One moment o’er the trembling frame
The Angel hovers nigh,
Then draws his sword with eye aflame—
’Tis writ “ all men must die.”
The South Australians can do almost any-
thing they set their minds on, but you must not
crowd them for time. They love to postpone
things. They call that statesmanship. They were
goiDg to send their troops to the Soudan all in a
hurry, but by the time they got the men’s kits
ready the goats hid b -en slain and the ass cap-
tured. They postponed the revision of the tariff
ti l trade and capital were gone, and put off the
question of prospecting for gold until the colony
became bankrupt. But still for all that they are
going to hold their great International Exhibition,
always provided that the last trump doesn’t sum-
mon all hands to the Anal roll-call just as the
plumber is putting the ridge-cap on the dome.
Even in that case we believe they would try to
get the great gathering of the clans put off for a
week, so that they might “ take their place
amongst the great nations of the earth.”
Apropios of an article on the Australian
iguana in a late issue of The Bulletin, a
Maryborough (Q.) correspondent writes us
“ Whether the ‘ (Johanna’ rams down a large bone
in the manner described I cannot tell, but this
I know, that the ‘ (Johanna’ manages somehow or
other to get tremendously large bones down his
throat. I opened one a few months ago and
found a bone which seemed to fairly stretch his
stomach; how he ever managed to swallow it is a
puzzle to me. Sam Slick says the Bear ‘ Cyphers,’
and knows the weight of his hams to a pound, and
that * Gohama’ must have done some ‘ calculating’
before he prevailed on the bone to go down. I
have noticed that around bush-camps there is
always a scarcity of bones,—it matters not how
old and dry these may be, the * Gohanna’ disposes
of them. But this dealer in bones is not wholly
dependent upon such things for a living. Often
I have seen him paying a visit to a neighbouring
ant-hill, and showing his admiration for their
‘ beautiful harbour,’ by picking up the inhabitants
thereof and throwing them down his throat with
as much ease and rapidity as a hen picking up
peas, and winking the while as only a ‘ (Johanna’
that knows his business can wink.”
“ Apart from the prevailing depression,”
writes a correspondent, “ there is nothing talked
about in Adelaide just now but the Commercial
Bank failure. It is the tailor’s plea for putting
on the screw, the butcher’s justification for raising
the price of his saveloy, and even the‘stiff un*
who has owed you five bob for a year, replies to
your request for a settlement—* Hang it, all, old
man, I suppose you’ve heard about the bank,
haven’t you?’ Everyman you meet looks as if
he had been round to the body-snatcher’s to order
his own coffin, and was on the way home to get
the corpse ready. Crooks, the defaulter, was the
consulting actuary of the ‘people called Metho-
dists,’ and he also taught the young idea how to
shoot in the Sunday-schooi. Quite lately he leo-
tured to the lambs on ‘the advantages of the
black-board as a means of inculcating ‘terewth.’
I hear that he is now engaged on a little
brochure called ‘Every man his own lawyer,
or fireside financing made easy,’ together
with a banker's vade mecurn showing the
value of the double ledger and a one-eyed
accountant as a means of bamboozling share-
holders. He will finish these works in his spare
time, of which he will have plenty during the
coming long winter evenings after he squares his
daily regulation heap and mops up his pint of
*‘ skilly.” Crooks’ impudence, it seems, knows no
bounds. After haviog delivered a speech in the
most nonchalant style at the last meeting of share-
holders in which he gave them sound advice as to
the management of a bank, he wrote a most tan-
talizing letter to one of the dailies, telling the
directors how to get out of the mess into Which
he had landed them.” x
Individuals afflioted with gravel or other
kidney difficulties need Woife’s Schnapps.
Notieel—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Drink Wolfe's Schnapps and enjoy good
health.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
888 and 012 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Plftt-sfreet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
ZE3^-!.^^.ZL-iZO-
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


Giticura
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
16 V
Scrofula on Neck*.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
.daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail, $,
' A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the ’Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;-
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Beat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00 ; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Boap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House-
m
EFFECTUALLY
ALLNQxioir urrm
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITQES
COCKROACHES.VrVr AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
c
«*
*
m
FELTON-GRIMWADE.W.C®
- MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
0
(
CO
m
O
co
£3O
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoompariblp
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Snssax Stumt, f tdnbt
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOog
& S'o^ S
d n e 'O—fcss
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
# §9S 4fe%
iQ LTE Jr
TOBACCO
DIXSON A SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
tofsess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
•piOE SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, ail sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every descriptiOL
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BR ASS BEDSTEADS and COT 3, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FILRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
Tkl'n-e t/flon e KUsc .
e/ r Jfet3/rler.
rf
p r T
a - e 1 ■
p—r
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Service*, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
Ail orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in paroeia,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stook,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpa
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies,
fibnd and obtain full particulars of working,
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they msy be used with
perfect confidence by youDg and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant o , attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st , London
Purchasers should look to tie Label on tbo
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRIC.E.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind how small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. M'IMNES & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 PITT ITEEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
.^'braJa.a/m.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully
pared preparation, and the result of practical ei'
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
4 SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY OURBIor Ner-
/-% vous and General Debility, and all complaint?
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
ippetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
domplainta, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
st<j. By Its tonlo and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. Bd., or 265. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MA RSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Shemists, 104-6 Market-at., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE No SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un- •
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per *
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest-
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations. 1 .
None genuine unless bearing the name and address ’
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth '
Street, Redfern.
3Lln.en. O-loss-
NERVOUS DEBILITY CURED -Li man-
hood restored without consulting a medical l
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fra hi
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, contai■
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post fretf
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P:Oi„BO*
766, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OB COUNTRY USB,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES..
ID
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEBjQ/


Sociat
Government House was again the scene of
gaiety on Tuesday, the 33rd ult, when Lady
Carington held her second evening reception, the
rooms being even more crowded than on the pre-
vious occasion. The wbo'e house was lighted up-
brilliantly, the verandahs this time not being
closed in, so that promenaders eould extend their
walks through the gardens, thence towards the sea.
His Excellency and Lady Carington stood in the
drawing room to receive their guests, her ladyship
looking charming in that peculiar shade of helio-
trope which suits her clear complexion so well.
The gown was made very simply with a long train
and low-cut corsage, her jewels, which were dia-
monds, being a triple tiara, and necklace and
bracelets all of superb stones. Tbe Hon. Judith
Harbord looked chic in a bodice of cream satin
fitting closely over a skirt of crepe de Chine, a
large bow at the side of the skirt of white moire
ribbon. Tulle, satins, brocades, velvets, and
almoßt all materials used for evening wear,
were to be seen on every side, but the first-
named light material predominated. Miss C.
Manning donned a gown of this light material,
mixed with white satin: Mrs. Browning, in her
bridal robe looked well; Miss Labertouehe, white
lace, over white brocade, with a white aigrette
in her hair; Mrs. Labertouche’s gown was exceed-
ingly effective, and much admired; Mrs. Darley,
in handsome black, with diamonds; Miss Bloom-
field, white satin and gauze, bodice cut square,
beautifully embroidered with pearls; a white
brocade embroidered with pearls, looked very
well; the Baroness Yon Tendenfeldt looked well
in blaek, relieved with pink; Mrs. Chadwick, a
combination of black and terracotta; Mrs. Bou-
verie, as usual, looked charming in a dress richly
embroidered.
• • a
Army and navy, on Saturday last, again
measured their strength at Victoria Barracks, the
result being a decided victory for the army. The
day being an unusually pleasant one for this
time of the year a great number of the fair sex
weae present. Mrs. Labertouehe looked well in
black Spanish lace and merveilleux; Mrs. Bou-
verie’s blue gown became her; Mrs. Darley,
elegant, as usual, in black; Miss Darley, in hand-
some brown velvet striped canvas; her two sisters,
in pale blue, looked cool; Mrs. Penrose in navy-
blue; Mrs. T. Robertson ia black; Miss Robertson
in cream with velvet trimmings; Mrs. Airey in
white. A very stylish costume was of white
tambour muslin and lace, white tulle bonnet with
ceil blue ribbon; Miss Denne, a pretty Turkish
crepe; Miss A. Denne in cream tambour muslin,
cream bonnet, with coral aigrette; Mi-s Kyngdon,
in cream lace dress made with French bodice,
stylish hat ot black chip and trimmed with orange
Bilk; the Misses Hardie in cream; Mrs. Savage in a
coffee-coloured costume: and Miss Wallace, in a
grey-striped canvas, looked stylish.
* * • *
A pretty little wedding was solemnised
at All Saints’, Wickham Terrace, Brisbane, on the
22nd uit., when Miss Louise Thompson, R.A.M.,
was united to Mr. David B. Harris, of Swansea,
Wales. The bride looked well in a dress of cream
nun’s-veillng and satin, slightly relieved with
prawn-pink, a cream hat and feathers. Her only
bridesmaid was Miss Gwendoline Jones, who
looked charming in pink and white gauze. There
was a very small attendance, owing to the cere-
mony being of a semi-private nature.
* * *
On the 17th ult., at St. John’s Church,
Ashfleld, Miss Grace Lilian Major, of Kiama, was
married to Dr. W. Conyingham Ashe, of New-
castle. The ceremony was performed by Dr.
Corlette, who had also, when incumbent at Jam-
beroo, christened the bride. The bridal robe was
of marble plush and merveilleux with bonnet and
gloves to match. The bridesmaids, Miss Mabel
Ashe and Miss Mabel Major, were attired in cos-
tumes of walJiiower-brown, with hats and gloves
in same shade, and each carried beautiful bouquets,
the gifts of the groom. After the wedding break-
fast, the happy pair took their departure for the
mountains.
* * *
On Tuesday, the 23rd ult., the members of
the Glebe Masonic Lodge treated themselves and
some friends to a garden party at Botany. The
miniature tram was kept running all the after-
noon for the amusement of the children, bo h
married and single, whilst dancing was the order
of the day and night in the pavilion. A sump-
tuous banquet was provided at 6 30, after wbicn
the brotherhood indulged in the usual speeches.
Brother (Worshipful) P&ssau occupied the chair,
and gave great satisfaction. Tne party broke up
shortly after 10 p.m .when all returned to town
by special tram, after a most enjoyable time.
* * *
On Wednesday, the 21th ult., a cricket
matoh was played on the Association Ground—
the Incogniti versus Albany. It was not very
largely attended, perhaps owing to not many peo-
ple knowing it was to be played that day. Mr.
Dangar, with his usual liberality, provided the
luncheon and light refreshments during the after-
noon. The band of the Permanent Artillery
played selections at long intervals. Ther » was not
much to notice in the way of costumes, white
being principally worn. Perhaps one of the most
striking of these was worn by Miss Richardson,
with a very pretty hat trimmed with white
feathers; Miss Dickson also looked well in white
with coloured stripes; Mrs. Bouverie in white
flannel trimmed with blue and white stripe, white
straw hat; Miss Metcalfe looked stylish in fawn
cashmere, handsomely braided brown bonnet;
Mrs. W. Docker wore black and mandarin ribbons;
Miss Busby in cream and amber muslin, with sap-
phire blue velvet collar and cuffs; her sister in
spotted delaine; Miss Macarthur ia white, with
large white hat, looked extremely nice; a pretty
blue silk with deep red embroidery suited the
wearer; Mrs. Neville Griffiths also wore white; a
young lady in French grey cashmere with white
bonnet, looked especially ladylike. The game did
not prove a very exciting o ie, so many of the
epectatorj walked around to witness toe lawn-
tennis.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Roberts, of Fairlawn,
Waverley, gave a nice dance to about 70 guests,
last Friday night. The floor of the ball-room was
almost perfect, and a large marquee, prettily lit
up by Chinese lanterns and coloured candles, was
erected on the lawn for the supper, iwo English
ladies were magnificently attired, the one in a
lavender satin covered with white jet lace, looped
with purple velvet, and moire ribbons, whilst
horse shoes of diamonds adorned the corsage; the
other a beautiful black satin draped with lacs, and
a string of real pearls round her neck, fastened
with a diamond clasp. Her fan was ornate with a
handsome bird of Paradise. A married lady wore
a peach-coloured brocade with pale green silk
train. Most of the dresses were black, that of the
hostess being of black lacj with satin train. Her
two daughters chose white silk with tan gloves
and ribbons, the second daughter being, without
doubt, the belle of the ballroom. A cream lace
skirt with bodice and sash of satin, with just a
touch of scarlet, suited well the wearer who was a
brunette. It was noticeable that not one pink
dress was worn, and very few pale blues, that
most of the bodices were cut V-shapo. The party
btoke up at about 3 a.m.
* * *
Tbe marriage of Mr. Arthur Edw rd Rus-
sel, third son of Colonel Russell, Torquay, Eng-
land, of the 58th Regiment, to Miss Ethel Alice
Williams, eldest daughter of Mr. T. C. Williams, of
Thornton, New Zealand, which took place in
February last, at St. Paul’s Church, Wellington,
was a very gorgeous affair. The ehuroh was
decorated with more than usual extravagance,
and a crimson cloth was laid down the aisle,
•which was strewn with flowers. The bride’s dress
was of ivory satin, trimmed with Jkussel’s lace
and pearls, and bouquet composed of stepbanotis,
heath, and orange blossoms. Ten bridesmaids
followed, alt clad alike in cream muslin, trimmed
with lace and blue ribbons. The service was fully
choral, and a grand ball was given in the evening
at the bride’s residence, the golden wedding of
her grand parents being kept up at the same time.
Amongst the guests were his Excellency the
Governor, and the Countess Dalhousle, Major and
Mrs. Jervois, Hon. C. C. I’haranyn, Hon. Randall
Johnson, Captain and Mrs. Russell, and many
other distinguished personages.
♦ * *
A nice concert was held in the Parramatta
Town Hall last Monday week in aid of the Library
Fund. Mr. C. H. Spier conducted, and nothiog
was wanting to make the affair a complete suc-
cess, excepting an audience.
* * *
Signor Vittorini’s concert is postponed
until further notice, in consequence ot an accident
having happened to the singer.
* * *
At a general meeting of the Glebe Point
Private Assembly, it was agreed to hold their iirst
social evening at the end of April. Mr. P. Mait-
land was elected hon. sec. and W. Long, hon.
treasurer. The assembly is limited to 60 members,
and the list is nearly complete.
_ , SOCIAL FIXTUttES.
Ladies’ Cricket Match, Association
Ground April 1.
Metropolitan tiedertafel Concert, Ma-
sonic Hall i April 5.
Social Reunion and Soiree Ltansante, to
be given by the Masonic Lodge of St.
Andrew. West’s Academy. April 14.
Queen’s School Amateur Athletic Club’s
third annual meeting, Association
Cricket Ground '. .. May 26.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dearest Belle,— lsn’t it a strange thing
that it nearly always rains on the Philharmonic
Concert nights? Last Thursday night the ele-
ments spread themselves for a real first-class
thunderstorm, and the roof of the Exhibition
building being of zinc, the effeot of the heavy
rain thereon can be better imagined than de-
scribed. The noise was something fearful, and
quite spoi't the first part of the concert. What a
nice old leaky roof 'that building has, to be sure I
There must have been quite a good-sized hole
straight above my right shoulder, lor a big
heavy rain drop meat persistently alighted there
and caused me to jump nearly out of my chair
for the first few times, with the shock, you know,
until I grew used to it. How glad I was it was
the off-shoulder from where Ned sat, for had he
known I was having a miniature shower bath, I
am certain he would have made me put on my
ulster, or something equally heathenish, for men,
you know, always place comfort before appear-
ance, whilst we do vice versa, don’t we ? But I
am running right away from the concert. Well,
then, after the Governor and suite had been
National Anthemed, Mods. Kowalski made his
appearance, and was greeted with thunders of
applause, real thunder if you pleese—atrepiendous
crash came just as he made ;his bow, which was
like a heavenly salute let off for the express pur-
pose of welcoming him, It wa < a noisy reception
and no mistake. “Si J’etais Roi” was effectively
played by the orchestra, amongst which, by the
way, I noticed some of our very best instrumen-
talists, but I’ll tell you what it is, Belle, I can’t say
the choruses were all well sung. From what I
could make out it was always the ladies who were
at fault, they would get right ahead, and one who
"wore a wreath of roses” was particularly un-
manageable, neither baton nor her music beißg
effectual in persuading her to count her rests.
But I except "La Carita,” my old favourite,
which was really nicely sung by the ladies alone,
with an orchestral accompaniment arranged by
the talented conductor. Miss Glendenning took
the solo part, and, after a hearty recall, the whole
was repeated. I fancy Mr. Hallewell sang "the
.v*onk” nioely, as be looked as if he were in
good form, but I c m’t say for sure, as he couldn t
be heard through the rain; afterwards, however,
when things were comparatively quiet, he
sang “I would I were a King, Fair Maid”
excellently, and gave “Hearts of Oak” for
an encore ; I liked Mrs. Atsinson’s second
solo, " Because of Thee,” best, and she looked so
bewitcbingly pretty as she came on in a pink
satin cress, trimmed with white lace, and just one
white camelia carelessly fixed in her black hair
that I felt myse f absolutely turn greea with
envy. I think it's quite unfair that one individual
should be endowed with so much loveliness. Miss
Alice Mountcastleisang "Judith” cleverly. She
has a nice-round voice, which is being properly
trained by Mr. Hallewell. I was quite glad she
got such a hearty encore,for.it wa3 tul<y deserved.
Mr. Pechotscli—isn’t it a funny name ?—I hardly
thought I should be able to spell it, but you see i
have—played a violin concerto with a cool deli-
beration which I sramire so much. I think I have
heard the same performer play on three or four
different instruments. I don’t mean three or four
violins, but I suppose I should have said different
species of instruments, so you see he must be a
real clever fellow. He was very warmly received
and recalled. A morceau composed by Kowalski,
which he calls “ Moustique,” and which I think is
none other than bis “ 0«e to a Mosquito,” which I
once heard him mention, was charmingly played
by the orchestra. It is an eccentric com-
position full of surprises and ideas, and
we all liked it very much. Haw I said Lady
Carington and Miss Harbord attended the concert ?
Well, they did, the former wesrring a black lace
dress relieved by crimson roses, ana Mies Harbord
in a simple white tambour muslin with a bunch of
pink roses on the corsage. This was the last con-
cert of this season, and if the society goes on
improving as it has done under Mons. Kowalski’s
able conductorship, we may expect great things
from it in future.
A capital scheme was suggested the other day
by some one of holding what he terms “ Musical
Bees, or Tournaments ” here in Sydney during the
winter months, where young folks of both sexes
may try their skill in either vocal or instrumental
music. I hear they are quite common in some of
the neighbouring eolonits? and are carried out in
tbis wise: The competitors must be under a cer-
tain age say, 30 years-and the judges may be
three persrns of musical knowledge and experi-
ence. The test piece must be selected by these
judges, but in addition to this the performtrs may
each play or sing a piece of his or her own selec-
tion, thus relieving the concert of too much mono-
tony. A eharge is made for admission to the
concert, and after paying for the hire of the hall,
&0., the surplus is used to pnocure prizes for
the successful competitors. Now, I think if
some enterprising lady an|d gentleman would
inaugurate these “Bees” they would take im-
menseiy, and would give oUr yoting milaicians
something to work for. I did hear some one
suggest that the order of merit of the performers
might be decided by the audience who by means
of a slip of paper could write the name thereon of
the (to his or her mind) most successful musician
and then s [ nd in their vote after the performance.
Once upon a time a musical tournament was
held in Brisbane when the votes were obtained in
this way; and when the first prize was awarded to
a young lady of only ordinary merit the audience
gasped in surprise and dismay. It subsequently
leaked out that the young lady’s father, who was
very wealthy and extremely anxious that his
daughter should win the prize either by fair means
or foul, spent a small fortune upon tickets and
presented them to his hoysemaids, coachman, and
anybody else who would agree to vote for his
darliug in return for being treated to the concert.
The servants accepted the bribe, and were faithful
to their promise, and their young mistress was the
happy possessor of the prize, whioh, by the way,
cost her devoted parent far more money than it
was really worth—but then, of course, there was
the honour of winning it. The remembrance of
this episode makes me incline to the plan of ap-
pointing three disinterested judges, so that all
will be quite fair and impartial. I really wish
someone would set these bees humming.
The opportunity to say a smart thing occurs to
some men so very rarely during their lives that
when the chance does present itself, they can’t
afford to lose It, even if it be at the expense of
politeness. At one of our grand wedding parties
last week the host told off one of his male guests
to take a stoutlold lady in to the breakfast, but our
friend, who probably had mentally paired himself
with one of the pretty bridesmaids, turned upon
his host, as soon as the introduction was over,
with the remark—” Of course this has nothing to
do with ‘ the flowers that blossom in the spring.’ ”
Was ever anything so rude as that ? Fortunately
the poor lady did not know the quotation, but for
aught her Unwilling cavalier Knew, she might
have. Oh, dear, some men are positively horrid,
but only some, happily for us.
The lady cricketers are going to play again, and
the admission money is to be devoted to some
charity. I think enjoying one’s-self (as, of course,
the young ladies do), and doing a charitable act at
the same time, is quite a delightful way to be kind,
don’t you ? I hope they will have a big number
of spectators.
Herr Patek gave another charming promenade
concert on Saturday night in the Exhibition
building, but several of the sololists failed to put
in an appearance. Madame Ke'lermann we did
notexpdetto see, as on Wednesday last she met
with quite an accident, which was ample excuse
for her, but I really do think artists should not
| disappoint a big audieuca with such cool indif-
ference as is too frequently the case here. How-
ever, even without Fabien and Signora
Fabris things went eff very well, and it is quite
evident these entertainments have taken hold of
the popular taste.
That clever little mite of a woman, Miss Gracie
Plaisted, is drawing big crowds to the Gpera
House. She and Mr. Charles Harding are
worth a small gold mine to the management,
but the rest of the company, with a few excep-
tions, aren’t “up to much,” as Ned says. Miss
Plaisted is capital in “ a ee feow it sparkles,” but
all her admirers fear that she will over-tax her
strength if "Girofle-Girofla ” is kept on muoh
longer, she has such a wonderful amount of work
to do. I wonder how she manages to stow away
so much talent in that tiny frame of hers!
Fancy poor Maas, the favourite tenor, dying of
damp sheets, or, I should say. in consequence of
damp sheets! Mrs. Sims ReevA has always
guarded her husband from the chance of siieh a
calamity, for whenever she has accompanied him
on his professional tours, notwithstanding assur-
ances of astonished hotel proprietors that her
eoncern is quite unnecessary, she insists upon
baviDg bed and bedding aired under her own
supervision, and forthwith invades the kitchen
and plants herself and bed-linen in front of the
fire until she isperfectly satisfied that, everything
is bone dry. What a pity Maas hadn't somebody
to look after his sheets!
Such a pretty conceit I saw in the dress line at
one of the tneaires last week I The dress was of
black Jace, and on shoulder nestled a pure
white dove, and I thought that the young artist
Hilda in Hawthorne s “ Marble Faun ” must have
looked exactly like this lady when she used to
caress her favourite jlove flp in her dove-cot. You
can hardly imagine how beautiful it looked, and it
made me quite vexed to think I had never thought
of such a fetching dress myseflf— so simple, you
know, yet so telling. We are going to a big
charade party to-night, and if I don’t forget I will
detail it to you next time. It’s very thoughtless
of people fixing thear entertainments for Wednes-
day nights for I can’t tell you about them till the
next week, when they are not only pretty stale
b4it I have such a treacherous memory that I for-
get nearly everything. I must really remonstrate
with everybody about it.
Ever your loving
MAB.
Fuueral Poetry, or Dirges of the Dead.
In view of tho present universal Australian
fashion of versifying over the corpses of late
lamented friends, we have ventured to dash off
in a moment of deeply pathetic feeling, a few
metrical moans, which may be of value to these
who have relatives a waiting insertion in the ceme-
tery, and who tina themselves, either owing tp
the effects of excessive giief. or defective genius,
or Imperfect evrly education, or abnormal
modesty, unable to decorate the bald obituary
advertisement of yore with those flowers of poesy
whioh are its modern accompaniment. Without
further preface, save only the apology to the
dirge-scribblers of the daily Press, we indite a few
lines for the benefit of children who have climbed
the golden stair:
Willy found a tin of powder,
Found a match, did straightway strike it,
Pieces of him fell at Chowder,
If he’s not lost he's mighty like it.
Little Tom, one day, was tickling
Our blind horse s off hind heel,
When he lit, five seconds later,
Angels beard his final squeal.
Poor little Jim went shooting ’possums
On the farm, one Eight last June,
Pieces of him now are blossoms
On the mouatains of the moon.
The clergy again. Advt. from Melbourne
Herald:— “ Will any lady or gentleman who ever
received a letter or acceptance of an invitation to
dinner from the ftev. George Dods please send
them to any member of the Melbourne presbytery.
Substantial pjoof that Mr Dods has assisted any
starving woman or family wdth dlothes or money
also be readily aooepted as proof against his
kindness.”
Ad. from S.M. Herald Loyal Orange
Institution of N.S. W. A general meeting of mem-
bers of all thejpdges will be heldin.the Protestant
Hall, on Wednesday evening next, at 7.30 a’cloek,
for the purpose of presenting an address of wel-
come to Elith O’Gorman, the escaped nun. Sec-
retaries are requested to notify to their lodges by
advertisement in the daily Press. J. Wheeler,
R.W.G.M., E. D. Madgwick, Grand Sec ” Ip other
words, toese bilious tanatioi are ready to welcome
to N.S.W. any person or thing calculatrd to keep
well before the public eye the Australian “ Bloody
Shirt” of seotariaa hatred.
Sedentary are enfeebling. Then
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps, the grandest tonio in
‘he world.
JJI UKNI T U 1 1 I lew ROOMS
BRADLBY, NEWTON. and LAMB,
0 Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
*4 ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or fied-
\-J rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material. 3
R
OT!o
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
ionnelEstreet; 7 ’ Bra^ey ’ Newton, and Lamb,
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS.—EarIy English.
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAME,
Furniture Wax-ehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
DRAW G-ROOM FURNITURB.
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically injaid with
eoloured woods. Exqusita examples are now on
view in our Bhowrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom fur-
nit URE, full suites, in S ATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NBWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (Sand 4 told) for the Draw
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
DEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. ERAD-
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Gonnell-street.;
Rattan verandah lounges, 205.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c.; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, ©n STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, foi dubs, restaurant*,
smoking rooms, &e.
£35
Compass C
PIANOFORTE, guarant
strong, and durable, Trichord full
jmpass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only
f\VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion
hU able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices
BRADLEY/NEWTON, and LAMB.
]J1 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
ll Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressingtable and
glass, and two chairs. The lbt for £B. KB
NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-Btreet.
Occasional tables in ail woods, immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
HIV F 5 N N lER WHAjN6 Ts, effective designs
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
ODonnell-street.
imNAMELLED and JEWELLED
Xli Wall and Table Jardinieres,
forming Summer Screens for
rormmg summer screens tor f
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTC
O Connell-street.
MIRRORS, for
with flowers
grates. Vary
and LAMB,
u
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
ops, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
dfIHAIS BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR/
V-/ UEUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O'Qpnneil-st
Toilet pairs,
with swing
marble top, 80s the pair.
DRESSING-TABLE
and WASHSTAND
DICING - ROOM - SlDE-
wnaiv, j/j.iinJlß WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAINS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
T7IULL SUITE# for
D
iINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 26 feet.
HAMM 0 C K C HAIL-
Patented.
m':
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verga. at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc ided. Price 308. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
C
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACK ETS-NovelhieS
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 6/6.
i lkgant~Venetian mirrors,
E 1
Lamb.
_ , rffchlj
enamelled In colours. Bradley, Newton, and
C
OMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDi?FS, with PAN ;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8, 6/6; 8x 8, 9/-; 9x 8,
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 13 x 8,14/6; 13 x 10,16/6.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
375. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
E
Dpri
I‘URNITTJ BSB-THeTjARGEST STOCK IN TH
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMI
ring and O Oonneil streets.


Woman Liems
The fashion of giving cheques as presents
to brides in EigDnd is rapidly gaining favour.
One reason ot this, probably, is that the amounts
look well in priat, whether the cheques are duly
honoured on presentation or not.
Bustles are to be worn smaller and much
more “ contagious to the human forrum” (as poor
Andy Lynch used to say) during the coming winter
season. Consequently, they will not: be so muon
on wriggle. Our little joke we mean en reale.
Here it is again—this time in a West of
England paper:—"On the Hth February, at her
residence, Palmerston Villa, Bridlington, the Wife
of Henry W. Summers, of another daughter. This
makes 13. ‘Not my will, oh Lord, but thine be
done.’ ”
G. T. advertises that he will not be respon-
sible for Mrs. T.’s debts unless contracted under
his written authority. Thereupon Mrs. T. adver-
tises back, “In reference to G. T. s advertise-
ment, whioh Mrs. T. does he mean-No. 1, or
the present one on his premises, No. 2 ? No. 1 is
quite aw?.re of G. T.'s inability to give a written
authority till ho goes to school for a term.
An American beauty of the season has
entreated Mr. Barnum to sell her the skin of
Jumbo, the lately deceased elephant. She will
give him any money for the hide, which she pur-
poses having 1 made iato an ulster. What a size she
must be 1 By the way, we do not remember any
Sydney girls making an oiler for the skin of the
historic goat Perhaps they are waiting till the
Boudan donkey gives up life’s conundrum and
then one may buy the hide to make a pair ot
boots.
Marv Anderson is computed to be already
worth neaily £IOO,COO, sately Invested in real
estate, gas-stocks, railway shares, and bonds, in
Borland and America. Tnis year she expects to
make a clear £30.000. But Mary is not so rich as
her sister professionals Lotta* who* a* a rule, lives
frugally and is eminently business-like. She
claims y to be, and probably is, the wealthiest
woman n the stage. She is estimated as worth
£350 000, most of which is held in the name of her
mother, who is one of the funniest little specimens
of female humanity imaginable, and who has
been her daughter’s manager ever since she first
appeared as a small child. Lotta has only sus-
tained one serious monetary loss. A man she was
enraged to was at the bottom of it. She let him
have ? £4ooo to speculate with. He lost the whole
of it and Lotta’s heart and hand at the same time.
A neat argument in favour of the early-
closing ciausl of the Factories Act was advanced
bv a cute young Victorian man at a meeting held
to discuss the question. He had been worked up
till 10 p m., dispensing salt-herrings and bar-soap,
previous to the Act coming into force, and com-
niained that he was chatted, and even threatened
into taxation, for being a bachelor. The fact was
that he? poor martyr, had no time to do any
courting. Parents kicked against even an ever
so honourable grocer’s assistant, meandering
round the suburbs with their daughters after the
hour of 10. So this embryo provision merchant s
chance of prosperity for a better-haif was
seriously hampered till early-closing became law.
What a gorgeous piooe of legislation that iac-
tones let wilt appear henceforth ti the gushing
maidens of Victoria 1
Tndffinsr from a fashionable marriage ad-
Rpgina'ld Henry Thompson. Thompson unfor-
tunatelv dies a few months afterwards, and in the
nmrnßnf avearor two his sorrowing relict again
goeS to with one Mackworth Oscott.
Well, you who have been brought up in the old
conventional notions would imagine that the
deliheratelv indited newspaper announcement of
the widow Thompson’s second matrimonial ven-
tme would be to the effect that Mrs. Thompson,
relict of Mr. Reginald Henry Thompson* a, yt
daughter of John LJrown, had been united iff wed-
lock to Mackworth Oscott. Not so. The an-
nouncement appears thus:—" Osoott—Brown.—
March 13, at Carthage, Schnapper Point, by the
Lord Bishop of Madagascar, assisted by the Rev.
Blank, Mackworth Osoott, eldest son of George
Osoott, to Letltia Isabella Thompson” (the name
Thompson, it will be observed, reads merely as a
Christian name) “ eldest daughter of John Brown.
The friends and relatives of the bride s deceased
husband are surprised, and no wonder.
Miss Detchon is the latest professional
beauty. An American lady, she has, according to
the papers, “ Shone in British Royal and Aristo-
cratic Circles.” So have one or two other protes-
slonal beauties in their little day without much
subsequent honour or profit. Miss Detchon is now
in Paris. It is whispered that Miss Detchon had
been expecting a proposal of marriage from an
“honourable,” but his slothfulness in coming to the
popping point determined her to hint that she
was not above being his other and better half. He
then left. Poor girl. A note
Fairest Detchon, Queen of Beauty,
Heed not Royal Princes’ glances;
Nor his lordlings, who, in duty,
Whirl you in the mazy dances;
Heed but us, we know their racket,
Lords we are each day upbraidiDg - ,
This line on your puff-box tack it
“ Think of how ‘ The Liiy's ’ fading.”
If you hold the n etal yellow,
Laud in London or—Damascus,
We are not a bad young fellow,
Come out here, dear Detchon,—ask us.
An elopement which, in its general char-
acter, almost rivals the youDg Lochinvar escapade,
comes to us from New Zealand. A settler living
some little distance from Taranaki became ena-
mored of a young lady whose sphere in life was a
trifle humbler than his own. The affection becom-
ing mutual, he proposed and was accepted by the
maiden, but at the eleventh hour the stern parient
stepped in and refused both her blessing and con-
sent. But love laughs at blacksmiths, and thQ
young folks arranged to elope. Th?y were just
stepping into a trap provided for the occasion
when the brother of the maiden with her mother
arrived upon the scene. T wenty-two rounds were
fought between the men, and, sad to tell, the lover
got badly licked. He then offered £5, and raised to
£l5 by £1 rises to be allowed to carry out his inten-
tion, and the mother, with a view to securing the
girl, pretended compliance, suggesting they should
all journey back to the house and talk the state of
affairs over. The mother dismounting, placed her
hack at the disposal of the lover, and entering
the trap with her daughter, drove her to
the maternal home. The men dismounted Are
you clear of the steps,mother dear?” asked the
maiden in tones of silvery sweetness. “ Yes, dar-
ling,” responded the old lady. “ Then come on,
Johnny,” shouted the fair enslaver, as she dropped
the whip on to the buggy horses while Lochinvar,
racing after her, caught on behind and inglori-
ously tumbled into the back part of the bridal
carriage. Before a second pursuit could be
arranged, the happy pair had passed through New
Plymouth en route to Waitara, where they caught
a steamer on the point of leaving, and sped
merrily over the deep blue sea in the direction af
Auckland. At last advices they were still
speeding.
Suioide among single women is consider-
ably greater than amoDg any other class of the
community. Unrequited love is the usual
trouble. That innocent-looking boy, Cupid,
spares neither young, middle-aged nor old. Miss
Adams, of Port Adelaide, S.A , has just cut her
throat, in h r 73nd year. Her friends can “ assign
no motive for the act.” Let us assign one;—
Three score years and ten she waited
For the man who never came;
Her fire of love burned unabated,
Yet she vainly sought a “flame ”
Willing to be wooed and mated,
Still she kept her maiden name.
Weary grew at length this gazer
After stars that never shone;
One fine day she took a razor,
And speedily the deed was done.
In a fairer realm Bhe plays a
Harp of pure, celestial tone.
Spinsters to these deeds are driven
By the cold decree of Fate.
But are they better off in Heaven ?
No—once beyond the Golden Gate,
They cannot be in marriage given
(Miss A. will find that out too late).
In a sculling match the oarsman who
happens to be out of condition may get along
pretty well while he is not pressed by bis antagon-
ist. But once he gets into a real “ ding-dong ”
tussle his want of condition tells and he hegins to
wobble—to row all over the boat. That is the way
with the Sydney Evening News. A fierce skull-
ing competition is proceeding—’*go it, ye cripples I”
—between the three Sydney evening papers, and
the News, finding itself unable to meet its rivals
in a legitimate way, has slapped its trump-card—
deliberate lying—down on the table with a bang,
by printing a half-column artiole descriptive of an
alleged fearful boiler-explosion at Botany water -
works which resulted in the death of the work-
men, the complete stoppage of the Bydney water-
supply and the consequent shutting up of the
tram traffic and the factories of the city. At the
end of the article there was a statement—vener-
able trick I— that that was what might happen,
Only the vast army of idiots were deceived by this
latest exploit of the journal which, to even the
most saintly deacon in our midst is known as the
Evening Liar. The oceu-rence was said te» have
taken place at 1 o’clock on the day o publication,
and, as no one in his sei ses ever dreamt of look-
ing to the first edition of the News for an account
of an afternoon event, the affair was at once con-
temptuously oismissed as a drlvellingly feeble
imitation of a long-played-out Xankee nickel-
grab. Mr. Vlfred Bennett, managing proprietor
of the News, has just returned from Yurrup. He
has now evidently completed his education.
The politioal situation in N.S. W. resembles
a game of cut-throat euchre, the players being the
three knights of the Assembly, and a lively game
it is likely to prove, seeing that there is no lriend-
liness between the players, and that the stakes are
£l3OO a corner. Sir Patrick is leading, Sir John
has shown his hand, and a decidedly weak one it is,
and Sir Henry is playing a waiting game—keeping
all his trumps in reserve in the hope of gaining a
sudden and triumphant victory. If the game ever
assumes the phase when the principle of each man
for himself will have to be departed from it may
reasonably be expected that Sir John, who will be
in the weakest position, will help Sir Patrick to
euchre Sir Henry. Whether the public like it or
not they must watch the game with considerable
iaterest, beoause it is ot importance to every
class of the community that it should be
played, and that no time should be lost ia
determining who is the best man. There seems
to be n« truth in the rumour which was current
a few days ago that Sir John had agreed to run
with Sir Henry again, as when speaking the other
night after the Premier indicated what the policy
of the Government was to be, Sir John said:— ’ I
am sure that the gentlemen associated with me
will be prepared to give the Government the
fairest of fair play. We shall not endeavour to cut
their throats because they cut ours ” Perhaps Sir
John will explain now the latter action is possible.
If an ordinary man gets his throat cut, he is not
allowed sufficient time to revenge himself by cut-
ting the other man a throat. Does a course of
politics develop a 'second throat? Has Sir John
revealed the secret of the remarkable inconsis-
tency which characterises the average politician,
who will voice one thing to-day and quite the
opposite to-morrow ? Sir John says that for tho
good of the country he will give the Government
a fair support. His present idea seems to be that
it would not be for the good of the country if Sir
Henry were to be allowed to handle the reins of
power. Whether the people entertain the same
idea, events will determine.
LOVE’S FETTERS.
Dear silken bonds, are they still, my sweet,
I iThough six years over our life have passed,
Since L knelt In the moonb ams at your feet,
And won you, love, for my wife at last.
Never a sharp angry word, my queen,
Has torn our hearts with its bitter Ush
(Though I may not swear how it might have been
Had I got a grip of your old man’s cash).
Lady Harberton, of “ Divided Skirt ’’no-
toriety, has what she calls a “National Political
Union’’-a collection of ladies (chitfly) who talk
to Prince Bismarck, make the Tsar listen to his
charming wife, and and so on. 1 1 is a gyncecraoy
founded to teach those horrid male creatures. Sun-
dry ladies hadiheld forth at a late meeting when up
arose a man who dared to say he entirely dis-
agreed with the last lady speaker. He finished,
and Lady Harberton finished him by saying:
“ There must be something defective in the
acoustic properties of the room, as no one seemed
to notice that the elderly gentleman who last
spoke had said nothsng which had not been already
said by one of the lady speakers.’’ After this
the man must indeed have the courage of his
opinions who ventures on his hind legs at a meet-
ing of the N.P.U.
[HIS ANGEL.]
[By A BULLETIN BARD.]
Her name was Angelina Smith,
My patronymic’s Scott,
I won her maiden.fealty with
Fair words, ’twas all she got;
I called her angel-in-a dell
Where sars’parillas twine.
And darling; Bal what new to tell,
Enough, she now is mine;
We dwell in harmony and joy
Three days, our love is hot,
Then three days (mother, hiss your hoy)
She’s Angel-in-a Scott.
AT THE MORNING SERVICE
The sermon was long and the preacher was prosy,
The cushion was soft and the corner was cosy;
And, musing, I knew
By my side in the pew
Was a dear little face that was dimpled and rosy.
A strav hit of lace and the curl of a feather
Lay close to my cheek, and I didn t care whether
y The service was long,
Or flirting was wrong
In a lonely back pew, as we knelt down together.
In reading the prayers we had one book between
So sweet was her smile that, had nobody seen us,
w While bent on our knees
(O how Cupid did tease I)
I had stolen a kiss, with the prayer-book to screen
us.
In the oriel window the sunlight was gleaming,
drowsr old brain I felt love fancies teeming;
In my drowsy «^ r my heart gave a thump-
But my head got a bump
On the baok of the pew—l had only been dreamiog.
In ease of emergency you should keep a
bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps on the premises.
Gloom and despondency removed by
Wolfe’s Schnapps#
C-xea/t .A-ttxstctioxx I
<3-xea,t I
Gr-resit I
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE.
Jones, Lawson Bros., anti Co.,
Practical Cabinet Makers and Upholsterers,
39 GASTLEREAGH-S TREE!,
Near Hunter-street.
The large and spacious warehouse is close to the Hunter-street Tram-station.
THE SHOW-ROOMS ARE LARGE AND WELL LIGHTED.
THE STOCK COMPRISES t-
Cabinet and Upholstered Furniture,
Bedsteads and Bedding,
Brusssls* Carpets, Wilton Carpets,
Tapestry Garpbts, Linoleums,
Floorcloths, Curtains,
and Table Covers.
ill Ms Are Marked io Pleii rims
AT
LOWEST CASH PRICES.
VISIT
THE NEW FURNITURE and CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 C ASTLEREAGH-STREET,
(Near Hunter-street).
'UUMMII im QflV ITU 1
■urn ■pi©‘sa:o‘pca
KHIL no
s^naanoH
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
/c
C D
ml
w
1
y
r\
rs,
ii
&
')
l
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.„ 9s. 6d., 10s. Gd., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Order* from the Country will receive immediate ai\d careful attention.


Political
Points
Mr. Abigail, M.P. for West Sydney, spells
Parnell with a small “ p,” but we understand that
to balance this error he always spells leather with
a very big: “ H.”
The N.S.W. Ministry propose to dock the
screws of the Civil service. The vote of the ser-
vice is being thoroughly organised in Sydney, and
will be given solid to the Robertson party.
David Gaunson told the electors of Bal-
larat (Vie.) the other night that “ he was in favour
Of the people of Victoria choosing their own
Governors.” Well, if we are to have Governors
at all we’re of Mr. Gaunson’s opinion.
Ninian Melville, M.P. (and undertaker—
Which in this country is, on the average, a more
honourable title),’is of the opinion that all public
meetings should be brought to a close with
“cheers for the Queen.” Ninian is also probably
of opinion that cheers should be given for the
Queen at every funeral.
Hon. Peter Lalor, who has been re-elected
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Victoria,
is the only Roman Catholic who was not boycotted
by the Melbourne Age during the recent general
elections in Victoria. We’re afraid that there’s
some collusion between David Syme and Peter
Lalor that the Papists are ignorant of.
Sir George Grey, the veteran orator of
N.Z., is once more on the stump—his subject, the
land question. Sir George enunciates a scheme
for settling people on the large private estates of
the colony. He proposes to take land from the
monopolists by (compulsion at a fair valuation,
in State bonds—the land to be let to
farmers, in blocks of 160 acres, at rentals equal to
4 per cent on the purchase-money on the perpe- ;
tual leasing system.
It is believed that Sir Michael Hieks-Beach
played the part of an artful dissembler in making
an abortive protest against the ‘ swearing in ” of
Bradlaugh. Weary of theologieal quibbling the
Government made only a show of opposition in
the matter. Sir Michael winked at the Speaker in
the lobby of the House, the Speaker took his seat
and wiDked at Bradlaugh, and Bradlaugh winked
at the Bible, and was oeciared to be duly sworn.
Then Sir Michael rushed in with his indignant pro-
t<st, and all the rest of the assembled members
with one accord breathed a little word inside their
respective hats. And that word was—“ Walker I”
’Tig true, ’tis pity, pietists-and pity ’tis, ’tistrue.
Sir Henry Loch, Governor of Viotoria, has
fairly “ got ’em ”at last. He apes Queen Victoria
and opens Parliament—haw I—“ by commission.”
Ho was “unavoidably ab:ent”—in Tasmania—
from the opening ceremony, which was performed
by a couple of Judges, one of whom announced,
in an off-handed, airy way, that the well-paid
foreign official would “ attend”—just listen—“ at
A later date to deliver the speech usual to
such an occasion.” There is a pleasant vein
of familiarity in this intimation on the
part of the personage who draws £lO 000 annually
as an honorarium, for the trifling duty of governing
Viotoria, which proves him to be the right man in
the right place-as long as he keeps away lrom the
colony.
The working classes in N.Z. are beginning
to lose confidence in their late Liberal representa-
tive, the Hon. Robert Stout, Premier of the
. colony. Since his elevation to the Premiership
the iion. Robert has, as a rule, been remarkably
, reticent as to his views on the land question, and
other burning subjects. Lately, when interviewed
' by the unemployed at Christchurch, he told them
that what they wanted, viz , “ permanent employ-
ment,” was impossible. It was nothing but
Socialism to expect the Government to find them
work— and Socialism meant the ruin of the
(colony.” This is rather cool of Robert, seeing he
ihas risen to power by preaching Socialism, or
(something very like it, for the last quarter of a
(century.
If Governments will persist in doing
things without consulting the country Press they
have simply themselves to blame. We regret to
find that through the withdrawing of a Murrum-
bidgee reserve from selection the Jennings Cabi-
net has sounded its own death-knell. The Wagga
Star takes the Minister for Lands to task in its
usual heavy style, and concludes:—“lf he refuse
to explain or give an unsatisfactory explanation,
then we will withdraw our support from the pre-
sent Government and give it to those whom we
consider best fitted for the proper administration
of the land laws of the colony.” It is terrible to
consider the legion of Ministries which have
fallen victims to the wrath of the Riverine Star.
Where can the editor bury all his dead ?
Time was when the German lords reokoned
amoDg their privileges that of robbery on the
highways of their own territory. English lords
used to rob everywhere, but they now confine
themselves to encroaching on the pension-list,
clutching sinecures, seal-selling, vote-vending in
both Houses of Parliament, and strangling all
popular measures. The latest worthies added to
the Pension List are Lord Halsbury, the English
Lord Chancellor, who retires after having sat
upon the woolsack for only a few days, with a
pension of £5OOO a year, and Lord Ashbourne, the
Irish Chancellor, who retires on £4OOO a year after
doing next to nothing during the space of two or
three months. So that £9OOO a year is added to the
intolerable burden of the British taxpayer. ’Tis
well that Bradlaugh has got to Parliament at last.
At Mill town, county Limerick, in January
last, a Mrs. Reeve was lying ill in bed (having been
confined a few days before) when the bailiff
entered to evict the family for an absentee land-
lord. The house was stripped of its contents, the
ailing woman compelled to leave her bed, and the
child s cradle flung into the street. The last spark
of fire in the grate was extinguished and the
mother and child were turned out into the road-
way exposed to t'no inclemency of the weather.
The woman was so terribly affected by the ex-
posure that a Catholic priest deemed it his duty £o
administer to her the last rites for the dying. The
inhuman miscreants who fatten and thrive on the
industry of people whom they treat in this way,
deserve to have their names handed down to pos-
terity for ever along with those of Nero and
Herod.
The Continental papers say there is an in-
creasing demand for Protestant clergymen in
Germany—not on the part of the congregations,
for the churches are emptying year by year—but
on the part of the administration of publio wor-
ship. The fact is that this mode of making a
living is becoming so generally discredited that
the professors of theology at the universities have
to lecture, for the most part, to empty benches.
How much happier is the “ Dettr old Church of
England,” with its fat livings and heavenward-
pointing village spires, within whose churches the
parson-magistrate at £5OO or £6OO drones the “ old
story ”tols or SO yokels and his wife I No fear of
the establishment revenues going begging while
there are such prizes to season the preponderant
mass of blanks in the ecclesiastical lottery. But
wait till Disestablishment comes!
When Mr. Dutton, the Queensland Min-
ister for Lands, used to write to the papers about
how the world wagged in the backblocks his
lucubrations were pretty generally read. Ho
wrote for the love of the thing, as Mortimer
Franklyn did when a journalist in New York and
London, and as there was really something In
Dutton managing-directors of Queensland news-
papers treated the public to his opinions as often
as they could get them. See how a man may be
spoiled I As Minister for Lands Mr. Dutton is
author of about 17 columns every week in the
Government Gazette. When the journal is
issued he steps out among his acquaintances.
Dead are the plaudits of old! No one now slaps
him on the back and cries “ Bravo, Dutton ! ” No
one now uncorks a bottle and says “ The satire of
Dryden, the wit of Moore, the stately polish of
Chesterfield I” And why? Because no one ever
reads the Government,Gazette. He, hal Dut-
ton has genius. He will make his work be read.
As the first step he has made it known that he is in
future going to publish therein all details of land
sales, and not in the common newspapers.
Ex-parson Rutledge is a sort of Queensland
John Osborne in audacity. He is better dowered
with this world's goods, because, possibly, he
prayed harder while he was in the ministry. John
bad to give a lot of his time to studying the life
of Parkes, and labouring to get on the committee
of Sydney Sahool of Arts. Fate was kinder to
Rutledge, and from the day he rolled up his gown
and settled the starch-bill for his white ties, he was
a free man. He has accordingly collared, without
any difficulty, the office of Attorney-General, and
now “ regulates ” the barrister branch of the law
up there with the same courage and want of
thought with which he used of old to ferrule pal-
A BACK-HANDER.
HOSTESS (annoyed at her guests pairing off so soon): “AH, THERE YOU ARE, MISS DE VERB,
I’M SORRY WE HAVE NOT SEEN MORE OF YOU THIS EVENING.”
MISS DE V.: “SO KIND OF YOU TO SAY SO, BUT YOU KNOW MAMMA NEVER WILL
ALLOW US TO WEAR LOW-NECKED DRESSES.”
pitating femininity into orthodoxy. His latest
regulation is, that no Crown Prosecutor shall take
a brief in opposition to the Crown unless by his
special permission. The number of Crown Prose-
cutors in Queensland exceeds by several the num-
ber of barristers with any repute for remarkable
ability, and includes all of these. Hence, while
the Government carries burnished steel into the
fray the long-eared public will have to be content
with the sapling or piece of green hide it can lay
hands on.
The warking classes of England must be
miserably misguided if they dream of bettering
their condition by sending "labour representa-
tives” into Parliament. Something in the atmo-
sphere of the House, as at present constituted,
converts the sturdiest of Radicals into the most
contemptible of toadies. Joseph Arch is the re-
cognised working men’s apostle, and has done
good work for his class in days gone by. Now he
is a senator and-a courtier. Speaking at a dinner
given in his honour at the National Liberal Club,
Joseph Arch seized the opportunity to extrava-
gantly beslaver that truly Radical institution, the
Prince of Wales. And this man was selected by
the people to uphold the rights of labour stad to
denounce class-distinctions. H.R.H. has shaken
hands with him. we guess, and behold the melan-
choly result. It is worthy of note, by the way,
that Reynolds, the leading genuine Radical organ
in England, appears to have left off hoping for any
grand results from “working men’s representa-
tives.” No wonder they become absorbed in the
“great Liberal party,” nineteen-twentieths of
which consist of large landed proprietors—present
@r presumptive—and capitalists, who wring the
heart’s blood out of their employes. Thus it is
that Joseph Arch has degenerated into a wor-
shipper of royalty and the peers.
Says the downright Joseph Syoiea
“ Froude has been writing a book on Aus-
tralia! He will most likely write one upon
heaven, hell, and purgatory next. What does he
know of Australia? As much as the man in the
moon. He came to Victoria and ran about With
Mr. Henry Loch, who is a pauper kept in prime
style by the colonists. Eroude shared with him
while here. He saw no poverty, no distress I It
required a miracle to show it to him, as he was
situated. In Loch s company, and with the daily
newspapers to direct him, Froade might hdVe
stayed here 20 years without finding a case of
poverty. Victorians can build grand churohes;
buildings for her legislators to work mischief in;
for lawyers and judges to play at justice in; for
useless lumber to sport themselves in; but James
Anthony Eroude did not inquire who bad to pay
for it all. The wbitewasher of Henry VIII., the
slanderer of the Irish, the false friend of Carlyle,
now writes upon Australia a book that flatters the
snobs hereabouts and must deceive many poor
people in England, who will migrate hither as to
an El Dorado, only tc find disappointment and
misery when they come. The colonies will do
well enough when they have reduced the expense
of government to one-quarter what it now is, and
have developed irrigation and farming. But the
idlers must be seen to.
On 25th March, Graham Berry, with his
wife, six children, and nurse tore himself away
from Australia to sojourn for a space—it may be
for years, or it may be for ever—in “ Merrie ”
England. Now, mark. Several hundreds of ladies
and gentlemen attended te see him off but very
few working men were present. And thus he who
years ago posed as the working man's friend at the
head of the Victorian Democracy is allowed to
depart. The Geelong Robespierre who suggested
breaking the heads and firing the houses of the
rich, the oratorical giant who thundered his
denunciations of those who would oppress the
•"orny ’anded son of toil,” has been “seen off by
hundreds of ladies and gzntlemen, ” and allowed to
leave the shores of Australia “ unwept, un-
honoured, and unhung—no, unsung.” Yet not
unaung, our verse:
Go forth, “ true ” heart, to further “ usefulness”—
Regrets are vain-few mias thee, we confess,
Amid the stars, which shine ip other spheres,
Hast thou no need to dread thine own compeers.
Art thou the Berry of the days gone by ?
Methinka can hear thee “ that was all my eye.”
But hast no word of thanks, oh heart or ice,
E’en now for those who for thee made things
*• nice,”
Ranked ’neath thy banner—” orny ’anded men,”
Ranked not once only, but once and again ?
Your answer? “None.” Go, leave them, traitor,
then.
The European Armistice, miscalled peace,
is a costly affair for the creators of wealth, the
producing classes, as will be seen from the follow-
ing figures, representing the average annual ex-
penditure on army and navy by the various
European powers Germany, £33,541,515; Belgium,
£1843,953; Denmark, £899,161; France, £11,853,349;
Greece, £979.171; Great Mritatn. £3B 869,107; Italy,
£13,430,636 ; Holland, £3 678 067 ; Austria-Hun-
gary, £l3 563,587; Poitugal. £1,581 737; Roumania,
£1,333.048; Russia, £39,640,049: S*eien, £1,473,918;
Norway, £713 531; Switzerland, £604,019; Servia,
£415,413 ; Spain, £6,348,164 ; Turkey, £5,557,143 ;
total direct cost, £174,150,566. All this, how-
ever, is but a fraction of the actual cost,
indirect, as well direct, entailed on European
nations by the cat-and-dog-like attitude which
their governing classes, for their own special ad-
vantage, love to impose on them. National debts,
in the old world at least, are almost entirely the
result of the unforeseen or miscalculated extra-
ordinary expenditure caused by actual warfare,
and the combined debts of the European Powers
entail a further annual outlay for interest of
£300,759,934. By far the larger part of this im-
mense sum ought accordingly to be included in
the price paid for the temporary lull which may
break out any moment into open war. Is this all ?
var from it. An at least equal, though quite in-
calculable sum, must be added on representing
the loss in productive capacity consequent on
millions of young and healthy men, who ought to
be swelling the ranks of producers, being con
doomed to enforced idleness duriog the best years
of their existence. So precarious and unnatura
a tension can only end, at no distant date, in uni-
versa! bankruptcy.
There are now in the Victorian Parliament
two pariahs—C. E. Jones and J. G. Bands. It is
impossible for any member, however insignificant,
to associate with either of them. If he does, he is
damned—politically, we mean, of course. These
two melancholy ghosts have not even the sad
satisfaction of being able to h'ob-nob with one
another and share each other’s sorrows—unless,
indeed, they agree to forget what everyone else
remembers, and make of themselves a dismal
Pj lades and Orestes, whose friendship will be a
theme of soorn. Two years before Jones himself
was convicted of takiDg bribes he had risen in his
place in the House, and in tones of mingled in-
dignation and sorrow brought forward the follow-
ing motion: —“ That Mr. Sands has been guilty of
conduct unbecoming a member of Parliament,
and that he is, therefore, deserving of the
severest condemnation of this House, and is
unworthy to occupy a seat in it.” This meant
that Mr. Sands had taken payment—or bribes,
if you will—for sundry small services he had been
enabled to render the outside public through his
position as a member of Parliament. With bitter
sarcasm Mr. Jones described to the House the
alleged artful little game of Sands-how he had
got up what he called the “ Sands’ Testimonial
Fund,” and how, instead of brutally bribing him
in person, his customers were requested to contri-
bute something to the fund. Then the virtuous l
Jones went on to give instances of the kind of
business done by this Bribery Bureau. Selectors
who wanted land or anything else could get the
powerful influence of Mr. Sands exerted on their
behalf by giving the fund a lift to the extent of i
‘fiver.” Men who wanted billets under Govern-
ment could procure his influence in the same way
and at various rates according to the importance
of the situation required. Even a police-
man who was dismissed the force for~insult-
ing ladies in a railway carriage was re-in-
stated by subscribing a "quid” to the fund.
Mr. Jones tried to show that what with one
thing and what with another, Sands made quite a
comfortable little income ouc of this business, in
addition to his salary as a member of Parliament.
Mr. Jones then called for a special committee to
investigate the matter. The result was that Sands
was fired out of the House on his head. Two
years later Jones was also fired out for the same
thing. Now they are sitting on the same side of
the House! What a devil of a dilemma they must
be in I And yet perhaps not They may be *‘ thick
as saints ” before long. We can imagine, how-
ever, the embarrassment with which the more
sensitive and the mocking emphasis with which
the more cynical speakers of the House will
address each of these gentleman as the " honour-
able member.” For Brutus is an honourable man I
Why cert’nly.
TO HEYDON AND SLATTERY.
Wby don’t you just resign ? Awhile
Ago it was your lot to.
This rot's enough a Saint to rile— ,
Now to resign you ve got to !
Resign you must, sirs, we repeat—
For Dave Buchanan wants a seat I
Or, you go out, Loo, anyhow,
For us you’re too long-winded;
Give it a spell, now;—make your bow,
And get the bellows mended 1
And, that way, you will leave, you note,
His Eminence, boy, still his vote.
A CHANT OF CHANTER.
Why sing a song so out of tune,
You Legislative squeaker ?
Why crawl so parlous soon for the
Protection of the Speaker;
And beg him— why the devil knows!
To stand ’twixt Harry and your nose ?
If Harry bids you come outside,
You must, sir, understand him;
Plain in this case your course, sir, lies—
You go outside and land him,
The Speaker can’t do this for you;
He’s got a lot too much to do.
But, Legislative Linnet, take
Our little tip now—will you ?
Not all the bluster in the world
Could positively kill you.
Though boots and curses e’en may fly—
Leviens and Chanters never die.
Why, in that House, what have we seen ?
Enough, quite, for our sanity!
The Speaker faint; so thick the air
With picturesque profanity.
And thoseithat foamed colonial ale
Are all back there. (And not in gaol.)
THE ORDER OF THE CARPENTER.
THE POPE AND PRINCE BISMARCK.
[ The decoration ot the Order of Christ
bestowed upon Prices Bismarck by the Pope was
accompanied by an autograph letter from his
Holiness to the Imperial Chancellor. The Order
is very richly set with brilliants.”}
O, you who bore the cross and were borne by it,
who all the pangs and tortures overcame,
Man of the people—friend of lost and sinners—
Communist, pauper, crowned with glorious
shame,
How would your heart scathe with its scorn your
Yicar
Who casts these priestly insults on your name!
You who defied the high priests and the elders,
Had your defiance stopped by dust or death;
The years have brought revenge. Your name—
which ever
The poor man’s heart with loVe remembereth—
Your priests dare send to men who have denied
you,
And still deny you with their every breath!
O, you who wept, yearning and tender-hearted,
Over your lovely city’s coming fate,
What—what have you to do with him who waded
Knee-deep in nations’ life-blood—to be great—
And looked complacent on Sedan, Sadowa,
And all those human hearts made desolate ?
You preached but peace—lie is of “blood and
iron” ;
He serves one King—you served your fellow-
men ;
Be crushes human souls with his ambition—
You raised the fallen, and gave them life again I
O. you who trod the path we do not follow,
When shall we learn your lessons—when, ah,
when?
These eighteen hundred years men have been
calling
Upon your name—yourself when have they
sought ?
Thank Fate I Through all the years you have
been sleeping
Of all their sins unknowing—caring naught—
Nor seen your Church’s absolute negation
Of all you ever loved or ever taught!
B. NRSBIT.
I Had Tried
Everything I bad heard of in the East and West
lor Salt Rheum. My case was considered a very
bad one. My face, head, and some parts of my
body were almost raw. Head covered with scabs
and fores. Suffering- fearful. One very Ekillul
physician sa d he would rather not treat it, and
some of them think now I am only cured tempor-
arily. I think not, for 1 hive not a particle of Salt
Rheum about me, and my case is considered
wonderful Thanks to Cuticuka Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifle-, and Cuticuka and luttcura
Soap, ihe great Skin Cares and Beautiflers.
Decatur, Mich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE,
If suffering from mental depression take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The beauty of form and the beauty of face,
The beauty of mind and of feminine grace,
It is still my delight in fair woman to trace,
And shall be to the end.
And for cheapest of goods I’ll try SummgrflelcPa
place,
He's the true friend.*
We can fancy a conversation that fre-
quently takes place between couples about to
settle down in life. Summtrlsing what has to *bo
done, and considering where they will furnish It,
rarely escapes the memory that the china, earthen-
ware, and glass, or crockery, as many call if, must
be got at Bray Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, for
they are unequalled for quantity or variety * i
Persons whose avocations keep them in-
doors should take occasionally Wolfe s Schnapps
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales Sile and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet romps tastefully decorated with
flag and floral cEoorations, 60HS Hunter street
Sydney.*
Here is Summer upon us, causing a.mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzsr, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Litbla Water (for Gout), of Dalm aud Oertel,
JSrated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Mb. J)b (Joußor bbownb Hate Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sou'h
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Hsndy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
62 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain.


24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS
complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOORAPHY.
SOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
of Lease.
Great Sale of MUSIC, STATIONERY, BOOKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing
MONDAY NEXT, Bth inst.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-marked, and a discount of 25 per cent., or 4s. in the £, will be
allowed on previous prices.
The profession and the publio are invited to this extraordinary chance of replenishing
their stock of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. 6d., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangings, Embroideries, Vases, &c., all reduced 25 per cent.
Extraordinary value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £l. Ask for Circulars for
particulars.
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &e., &c.
Account books, Day books, Ledgers, and Cash books, at wonderfully low prices.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 George-street.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
Tha FACtn/TT pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
me (al Luncheon, or Supper;” and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Paine- absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny,
men ATTN A is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
aconcentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in tbe Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists , Grocers, Sec., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6d., 3s , ss. 6d., Sec.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
S6HWBITZER & CO., 10 AD4M-BTREBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON.
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &o.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the bcist Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweet as cream; v ery palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any Other Emul' lion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being diges jied, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfeet Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the firs it Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers ANurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of thesolids of milk (digested),
and fifty par cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile lis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient fo” use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. _ (
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGON».
Sirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:— SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
I
lEBlu
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE* :!
REJECTED.ATALLCHFMISTSIM 3
10b*- 20oa:B0TTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCES t
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood. Ph D , F.C.S , &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLAND*’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for f»ir or golden haired children and per-
sons Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail A gents-Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
|HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1800),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
wartin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OP
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY BALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
pr Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
fiS LADY’S BALB.
® Ladies’ Chemises
® pairs Drawers
* Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALB.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBS.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accoucheinents, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of JB6
15a.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
S rices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
! applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford (Street, Sydney,
Originators of the oelebrated M 5 Bales of Drapery
BELTS.
CURATIVE
ELECTRIC
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never-failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by wearing the MAGNETICAL
ELECTKIC APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of life-
electrieity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 3s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 30s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10s. Insoles—whioh are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.p
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
ELECTRICITY.
t° £
literar
Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
jrary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
meoKff:
ISENGEo'
remedy for
(oi/sJjebiLitl
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
Ho is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space @f Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating andFnioying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating ail the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are wry simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 13s , or four q uantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 3s. 6d extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pi st Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALU PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
«. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACM.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS„ SCALD-3, &o- and
aken internally cures DIARRHXEA,
/RAMPS, COLIC, and all other interna aches
,nd pains, ~
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
0. E. MOULTON, sole PROPr.i:7OR,
MEILBOTJiRINriLi -A-NID Q~ DN'E'Sf,
PABNT


FRAWNCIS FANATIC PHONETIC HABIGLE. M.L.A., L.O.L.
To state that Orangeism and bad grammar go together is only another way of saying
that bigotry and ignorance are inseparable. Mr. Francis Abigail, a N S.W. member of
Farliament —Heaven save the mark! —the other day addressed tv o letters to a Sydney
daily paper which very properly (under the circumstances) and completely pilloried
their author by printing his communications verbatim. Subjoined, in small type, are
the two precious epistles of this yelpiDg little firebrand to whom a gifted friend has
addressed the appended exhortation in manuscript:—
.sTrKAtmen.t of the at Botany.
" (fp Till IHDITOR OF- TirS AIORR.)
f n S»,~Seihg, fhaf" f>v some unacount>
ftble process before I have deceived any
afepiy to , the tetter I se!tt' to bbe Hot)
Qpl Secretary on th"§ above subject-
you htvre obtined; the infrmatiti that
1 1 had .jaw l written but as the party that
fve the infrqatin "Slightly
I bend y’Ct'fe £q£y of the Letter
sent „ and I certain I speak
the true sentiments of peoplle of- this
Colony whefi i say they have Vot'the
slightest sympathy with any such im-
proper 'conduct' that it took Place and
shared in by a large "proportion of
todse present "is, only too trip*. and it did
not appear that those who should have
Shown’in way their disaprov&l of it
took rtiqjs 8o„to flo that Led me to write
tug Letter taking the Col Secretary
fer some authentic report please insert
this' wdsh the Enclosed’Letter, and oblige
Yours, &e., Francis Abigail.”
" March 29.”
("Copy j
“March 3 1886.
“Hon G. R. ,DTbbs Esq Colonial Secre-
tary
Sir 1 Beg to Direct yur attention to
tL report which" appeared in the Sydney
Marring Herald of Thursday Last being a
Description of the St. Patrick’s Day Celebra-
tion at Botany you will there find it stated
lhat a Mr. Crick Called for cheers for the
Queen which was Given in Loud Groans this
wee after cheers Had .been given for Mr.
pan.ell and others it is stated that the
minister for Justice was present with
Mr. Toohey, Hogan, Cqonan, and o Sul-
livan, who took no Steps- to Show their Dis-
aproxal of the Open manifestos of Dis-
leyaltey I would request that you obtain an
authentic report from ihe police, who were
present, -so that any action which may be
taken will have Solid Ground to proceed on
I have no Hesitation in telling you that if the
report be true action will be taken to test
public feeling as to Wether men Who would
so act should Hold public Important positions
in this Colony awaiting the favour of your
reply lam yours truly F Abigail.”
In a recent scientific discourse, Astronomer
Proctor points out that the “struggling moon-
beam s misty light,” spoken of in the “Burial of
Sir John Moore,” existed in the imagination of the
writer only, as the moon did not shine at all on
that particular occasion. That is all very well
from an astronomical point of view, but Proctor
should know that the greater the lie the greater
are the merits of a poem. This is where poetry
has the bulge on Sydney evening papers which
give fearful accounts of entirely imaginary boiler
explosions.
It is always a vexed question of good man-
ners, whether a gentieman meeting a male friend
who is walking with a lady ought simply to
acknowledge his friend with the surly nod of
British recognition, or ought to raise his hat out
of deference to the other r s fair companion. Itls-
really a much more debatable point than it ap-
pears. The raisiag of the hat with Englishmen! s 1
generally supposed to mean that the lifter of the
hat has a personal acquaintance with the lady he
salutes, and many ladies would consider it imper-
tinent for any man they did not know to acknoW
ledge their presence in any way; whilst on the
other hand there are other Indies, especially those
who have been much abroad, who would consider
the short nod vouchsafed their male companion,
without any polite recognition of their own pre-
sence, as a sign of a want of good breeding. Most
Englishmen dislike to be thought either pushing
or boorish. It is time, remarks Vanity Faib,
some lady of sufficient social position should settle
what is the correot thing for men to do In suoh a
dilemma-
Tempted to Kill.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE “ HATTER” AND THE DRUGGIST.
Ye dwellers in cities, that fringe some sweet bay,
Braced up by sea-breezes, bedrenched with sea-
spray,
By the splash of the sea-born spray,
With your comforts, your homes, all that makes
your life dear,
What reck you of dangers that lie in the rear,
Of deserts far, far in your rear ?
There are waterless plains far removed from your
keD,
Where the “heat-apoplexy” of late snared some
men,
Too potent that draught for m r st men;
There a skeleton, oft as some stranger doth ride
Perplex’d, to the track is sole sign-post and guide,
A speechless, yet, trustworthy guide.
In the scrub-covered ranges that lie farther back
Be on guard ’gainst the poison-tipt spear of the
black—
Quick-whirl’d, whizzing spear of the black ;
But escaping that spear, when ’mong white men
you come,
Beware of the poisons that lurk in their rum—
Brain-dazing, nerve-drugging bush rum.
I will tell you a story, soft men of the coast,
A true yarn, by heavens! and no idle boast—
No braggart and bouncmg bush boast;
Just a straightforward tale of the dangers that
lurk
In the country far north. Back o’ Cobar and
Bourke?
A jolly sight farther than Bourke.
Just lie low till I spin you my yarn—'twas this
way:
I had come at my best from the first break o’ day,
The first golden gleam of the day,
For my flour was all gone, I was peckish and dry,
And the devil a creek, dam, or waterhole nigh,
No green-scum’d, mud-thick water nigh.
It was blistering hot, no small airs were about,
And the dust lay foot-deep—’twas the ’76 drought.
Just ’fore the break up of the drought;
And it rose ’neath Joe’s hoofs and just floated
breast-high,
Spit it out I could not, my poor mouth was too
dry,
So it lay on my tongue—l was dry.
But I sighted a shanty at noon—a rough shop
At the doer stood a ruffian, who reckoned I’d stop
Who touted and asked me to stop;
He was lone, so he sail, had no wife, no hired help,
Had no mate, bar a wild-eye’d, long-legg'd, wolfish
whelp,
Fit mate for his master, that whelp.
Well, my horse was rubbed down, the boss gave
him a feed,
And it cost me ten bob, yet the hound in his greed
Ne er satisfied, devilish greed,
Bobbed my nag, but I turned around sharp on my
heel
And I saw how things were and soon claim’d a
fresh deal,
Of feed-box and maize a fresh deal.
I swagger’d and bluster’d, I slanged him a few,
Then he put the thing straight, and most humbly
withdrew,
With apologies many withdrew;
But I stopp'd him, half shamed, saying, “Boss,
don't you think
It’s most time that I took off a shingle -let's drink,
1 m dying for want of a drink.”
Wei', we drank, it was wet, aEd that’s all that I
know,
For it hissed down my throat like a crater’s o’er-
flow,
A volcano's hot, bubbling o’erflow.
Then I smoked but felt giddy, my brain whirled
around,
And my forehead was threatened somehow by the
ground,
The billowy, upheaving ground.
I steadied myself, tho’, and worked my ease out,
"Jack, my boy, you've been doctored, of that
there's no doubt,
Hocussed without a shadow of doubt;
But before you pan out and lie down like a log,
To be robb’d, perhaps killed, by that merciless dog,
That drug-selling, death-dealing dog,
Just puli out your shooter and settle his bill,
In r .turn for his draught give him one leaden pill,
A light niog aperient pill. '
Then 1 wavered: “ A life for a life may be fair,
But I yet might puli round, and his corpse lying
there
Would haunt me in dreams as ’twas there.”
Weil, I lugged out my “Adams,” hand firm as a
rock,
And took oath If he stirred, he should drop like a
cock
A shot-riddled, stubble-fed cock—
There he sat on a bench some ten paces away,
And his ruddy face paled till its colour was grey—
An ashen-palr, dirty-white grey.
D zzy, sleepy, and sick, worn out with my ride.
In my veins the hot blood throbbed a lava-like
tide—
Plow’d a feverish, poison-heav’d tide;
As I sat there, the light of the lamp leap’d—’twas
dark,
But the moon pe< ping in that pale face was my
mark,
A conspicuous t arget and mark.
Soon be-muddled he slept, and his snores were
profound,
By thdr echoes his snatches of babble were
drown'd,
His secrets preserved and yet drown’d,
And so the hour passed, never slackened the fight
Till it waned with the sweet, silver, virgin moon-
light,
It and waned with her light.
Stole in morning then veiled in her mantleof grey,
She doffed it and blushed, the fogs melted away—
My burdens were banish’d away,
Aud the blood in my veins coursed 0001,
anasuredly mild,
And my braivi fell, clear like as when I was a child,
An inquisitive, qu stioning child.
Then Isou rht out the well, for my vigil was o’er,
My head dipped in the bucket, its aching forbore,
Its scalp-raising torture forbore;
And i tended old Joe, then returned to the hut,
Found that breakfast was cook'd —the boss kept
his mouth ;hut,
That prognathous gash kept tight shut.
Breakfast done, I hung Joe up outside of ths
door—
Asked the boss for his bill—soon was settled my
score
I paid for a bed in that score;
Tnen I hefted a stick and went straight at his delf,
And I played little hell with the stock on the shelf,
No headaches were left on that shelf.
Still he said not a word, big oaths stuck In his
throat,
I was good with the stick, and he feared for his
coat—
He thought I’d be dusting his coat;
Then I bade him “ bye-bye ” in an airifled way,
As I mounted my horse he had something to say—
Both cur and whelp put in their say.
SlaDg him back ? No, not' me, he was meaner than
dirt—
I just gathered Joe up and went oil with a spurt—
A pipe-clearing, blood-stirring spurt.
Got to town the next day, soon was rid of my gold,
Can I ever forget how that “ druggist” was sold ?
The “heat-apoplexy ” fiend sold.
What protects us against disease ? Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Westfield, Mass., February 18,1882.— Dr. J-
C. Ayey and Co.—Gentlemen,—About five years
ago I had a very bad cough, and tried several rem-
edies without any relief, until I was advised by
Mr. Whitney, druggist, Gouverneur, N. Y., to try
your Chbruy Pectouail, which I did, before 1
had taken half a bottle I was entirely cured.—Yours
&c., Charles Meacham.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is greatly used in hospi-
tals for medicinal purposes.


of JWOWT.—This favourite braa-
f\f it' . S©l6<jtfirt irvoof no I*o fi»nnn t.rtf
nbe exfiftnAiifm JJUDiiEi, &nd ttioreioi e
CA TT*U , To procured rrerywhor*.
Sole Arenta.
PiI ’APES & SHAW
are now opening (almost daily)
AUTUMN SEASON.
(jjj- ATTENTION has been given by our
Qle c tatlve in London to the growing require-
° Ur tra^G ’ and we slm U Rave
FOSfl inspection
Qe^ 6 foll owing Now Goods THIS DiY :
claa P??in^?? ETrK GLOVES, four and six
oU[(o ff , T a tlle oewest winter shades
(s P 6 oiailvm^ VS ,’ tho “FLORA” K D GLOVE
phffible f in^JL utacturGd for u\ and not pro-
Bewher e), in ail colours, four and six
ffiE?® S SrS WBDE GLOVE ’’ in all
nd SHAW ’S PLUSHES and VELVETS,
*nd PLuluj4 W ’ SNEW Btriped VELVETS
!2tinl new merveilleux
L ™ T FABHION
STSIPE CAN -
u N’8 aE VPi S r^^' S BLACK CASHMERES,
Materials NGS ’ »nd other new black
mcur ning
j4 PAL®NX SILK CRAPES, VERY BEBT
BEAUTIFUL AUTUMN COS-
“tJST op™ an, v D R to Prices from 255. to 8 guineas
QOod| NED - new FRILLINUS and LACE
NEW Xrr
hosiery, NEW CUFFS ard
New jj^ 8 ’ adie8 ’ kPd Children’s Undi rclothing
* lowera and Feathers, Millinery
J*EftPEsli SHAW,
328 George-street.
VASELINE.
r:
m
8 0 ft ,
Vo a R s es erving Horses’ Hoofs
j£htg (father a P d prevents their growth
it is invaluable—pre-
hll3hti-co^V,„? nd renders it waterproof.
~^<'arP5 ot ector°nn^ S f Ve Qualities, uneqalled as a
ft B ®d f 2 r kee P in F in perfect order
kfi &c - 14 is the sole material
ee t>ers atl hies aJ ) ,^ r P oB ®s in the Austrian and
• • Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
w JL° EE AQENTS ••
Soi^*® s |, BUR " & CO.,
l2a w ADdlers ’ IRONMONGERS,
*ork-Btpeet, Sydney.
HATTERS
STREET
NEWFcT? Fm ™ 1
■ , *EST SHAPES.
a llace,
‘'.^9 tiffin a Cvcry <seS€Tlptson of
e* ’ ;: ' c?{7 » Mercantile and
Stationery.
1 4 nJ*£y S M£S£ laM
Slffn, «• 6TDKBI
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTKa STOUT
jSpssaz
m
1
'■•’A.JbJS JUbSi
The JBBST ALB and STOUT Inthe Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE 4
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
I
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
&T THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 18C9.
INCORPORATED by ACT Off PARLIAMENT, 1879
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £155,000
Directors:
S.C.M.G., Chaim an.
M.L.O.
Auditors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, 1
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
teorge S. Caird, Esq.
on. Philip Gidley King,
0. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Jsb. Scroggie, Esq.
U. H. Cohen, Esq.
Gbnbiial Managbb:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Sbokbtart:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Walis :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Kedfern, Gosford, Nyn«> n,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Bag.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.Q
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankbrs:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and ITinan
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to Bngland for sale.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET GHAMPAGNE.
OP UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities “ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp.”
TRAPP & EftXES,
54 Margaret Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
DR. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS. 39 CASTLEREAGH-8T
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities. Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty,
Box 120 G.P.O,
II
m p
T§ul
MiMk
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER'S HEALING SO A 7 ',
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing- of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Go.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—.€loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1?73.
v A
/ .n
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established 1m me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year,
Policy-he’ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manage?
Head Offlees-PITT and KING STREETS.
JUT crSuENERIEi,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmeod & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEBT MU;IC AT HALF PRICE
J. MURPHY S
Contra! Loan asd discount
Offices,
CORNER OP KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-etreet.
Money Lent at llic Lowest Rate of Interest
in th s Ll.y.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at 10(1. in the £
per Montn.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at b ates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
T
|HE AUBTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVESTOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (oovering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulla.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-stroet.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
* <V
X
y
v 7/
<xr c
0? X*
y * x „o x ~0
<o-' o''
.f,v/ ■»’
<~
*°V
d> <?'<,?' *° o*
« r V
fP v>' «?
*>
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT’S PSWKSFHOTIYHE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental amt Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Ine>p=city for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-dovn constitutions. It operates on the
system without c xeitlng care er thought upon the
individual aa to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medioine, and Is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
. Agents—Elmott Bros.
SIKBiP
a Bfca? v» nKssffl RiS* £1 Brae H jj
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don- THOB. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent Arm
BUBSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Good 3 will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.sf., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
The fresh food and ice comp an x
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AX
ia. 23 Heyal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa, Ac., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food S Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office .81 Harbour-street
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
Hew Cerafraß Dispensary,
S 3 kAEEES 1 &TBEJST,
Two doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer's).
T. JONES & CO.,
Ph. C., M.P S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only
at Beeorm Prices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, Tram T erminug, Sydney,
and Suva, l ljl.
Orders sent by post promptly executed.
Medicines forwarded to any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (net liquid) cau
be sent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
txKium
'\V
|E /:! MSB
I
m 3
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, forSALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AMD
HARTHBMWA RE,
WINES, BRERS, AWD SPIRITS
and general
SULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J„ BORJNsnd CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. OAYBN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. HS£LY»N and SONS*
ldiz.togaPale die.
AMD;)
•1
.llfj
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
m


ry
oP
IMP
SOn
3« c6 i.,
m (&®
\'
J LWE LRY
-Platx
a
: |gpm f! ' r
BONA-FIDE REDUCE
339 & 34i George S t Sydn&
.. PWHt'l * # IANO AT
14 Bourke 1 S T , ? E: Melbourne
QUINA LAROGHE. ?
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS, p#
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION, gj
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE, pjsf
ALL OONVALESCEIfPS, DRINK 111
At all Druggists and Chemists.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
3.
FRIT
SONS,
Bristol
London, and Sydney.
An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
1
Ini
■
■
SSSSS
m.
■
Si
v'V
m
■lf
t&ij
IS
mm
■
m
B
morian
A
DR. O COETKTELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUEY, ZEsT-S-W.
REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following eft'ect-sNer-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pknples on the Aversion to Society
of Females, pant of Pleasure in Life, Want of
. Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
maaeiK, sare, ana private, symptom list tree, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evtpry kind, from whatever cause, p romptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying 1 particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
ana physicians m regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest ofhce in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of' cases applying the
charges are kept low-often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect, life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
adtom DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, ® J
52 Castlereajfli Street (cmoirap floor), Sydney.
BUDGEREE ! BUDGEREE ! 1
Trade
M
cm
Marls-
NO MORN FEVER.
Tiie ri^fi^ 6E i IBE DIS^ CT AKT is the most wonderful Germ-killef ft, 'ii I
destroyer known. Ko household should be without it, as it instantly k ills
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &e. 8ol& at all chemist 0.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane. Lower P
TBOBERT BUTCHER * C.Q,
■*“* (Late William Long),
mr WINB AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITI THI TOWN HALL, STDNIT
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
'AN HOOD
ntMKa
EES
fv
mm rre*<inj»tio* which ,
'^‘RTZr&t^SMK^S^
&
rdCzSt
BULL BO© ALB.
fIRST AWARD, GOLD MKDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
|HE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thlrst-
menching properties of this wond-renowned
" Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs,
and Co. the highest award given at
mit? exhibition. Connoisseurs ol Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
AT/K- which is to be obtained oi' all the loading
Wine and Spirit Merchant!;.—OATTELL & GO„
Sole Agents.
m
I quenchins
bottling of Bt
Robert Porter
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTEfI BEFORE
KOWSSAOaSanJWHiamS.
EEFOni AFTER
Copyrighted
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
Will do it or* either bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Along .
tactte in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 2u,(XX> young men already
wear full beards, having wed 1 to
Copyrighted.
3 pkta, No injury , easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. lid . post paid, sent under rover, free
/.Uidreas , Frau v ~ Uoggtaa, dole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.i
Packet* 3a. 6dt.
from observation*
bydmy,N.S.W'
P. KIRBY,
___ From the late Mr. Jambs Otraiia, 7
TTrj.d.erta,2s:ex,
84 HUWTSM & PHILLIP KTBIBTI,
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. Janars Curtia for sixteen (18) yearf:
Manager for oyer ten (10) years.
Awarded Three
Prize Medals
, ‘ttayq
\ T Lu: U‘ I ‘ \
¢~<a£::-~‘-‘ w
for
■Wo*
A. B. PY#^’
Qt
Importer and Manufacture 1 J
HIGH ART FUB* |T^
l t J
, rtt* 1
Brass, Iron, and Nlohle-pl» tea
Wov 33, Wire, and other.
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster,
sells Carpets in Newest Colourings'*
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Dgo* J S
Servians. flhnmher Wft rc
SiO<
The Only Address 1* ,Ji
365 and 365 a Pi**'*
Services, Chamber
Kitchen Requisites, & 0,
BSTWBSN
Liverpool and Bathui* 8 * 6
SYDNEY.
AWARDED THREE PRl^®
EOR s?
IiATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, W
Manufacturer of ail kinds el Crated Waters, Cordials, and enters, and Proprietor of Viaorln"’
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
81 AND 38 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Cmcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Oak Medal for lErated and Mineral Waters; also, another Bold Medal for Liqueurs 80** 1
