

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
pfeoOF
s;oe
*7
©
PROOF
V N
E'f
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET,^SYDNEY.
4$
0
CO
Q
o.
on
UJ
o
o
CM
c_b
QQ 2 in
az
°D
O
<y
>V
nr
O'
V
o
C&°
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH,
Uud by All the
leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
fsd
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
tM I H
Cam. and Inspect
Hard man Bros.
GOIDF/vSy/U/P/
'ilV AMO
Tft EAC L£
RFF/NFRS
, eSB
mUumiiuuli,,
MWKiK
m
head Office & factory, Newtown
BRANCH, GEORGE ST, SYDNEY.
flniHnmt»nniimnjiiiHH»nittHniwuMUmi<
HlMuki
* U > n I i 111 (i (Ti 11 ti I u i t ii li i • 111 lit it I ti 1111 i'i nil ii
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARES.
<0
§
M CARTHY <fe CO.,
TOBACCO iIVTEZEtCHAAIZSrTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Depot for aU Cameron Bros, and Ce.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarhttks.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
ALEX
GLASS,
WALLPAPER,
PAINT, &c.
281 George-street, Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHA^
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES,
IRAILWAY and other * ,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MA
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOODWORKING jfIfIiNW.
>ther CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ;
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, VEP pj>'G,
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED g SDU-ppY
LATHES, PLANU'gpO^
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. „., T r
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED P Vlj
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PAt^
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS,
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS,
Head Warehouse •
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores- • J
London Office
CHALMERS, & C °'’
. • 54 YORK STREET. mCf „ n rTJ
. HAY and ENGINE STREEIS.
• • HARBOUR STREET, DARLDW
S‘3rr>3srEi'sr.
- 85 GRACECHURCH
w
MXSONXSOMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
OIXSON
)N A SONS ../if?
CONQUER 0 , f
YANKEE DOOK 1 -
H A SONS _ - f- Q
SIR ROGEjV
N AILROU
CHAMP,! S.'S-'
oixson a sons
Yj
pixso
QIXSQN A SONS
OIXSO
OIXSON A SONS
i <x own j
CUT. In Tim
R.C.RUBY.ORIENTAL M |Jl -
CIGARETTE G
V%( TFAMWArLfi^
(yg) ,
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte -place and Gkoroe-strkbt.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
assorted
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the Hat of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... is. per bottle.
Bunville’s Shamrock and Burkes
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
is.
3s.
ss.
6s.
is.
is.
is*
Is. 6d. &2a. 6d.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Laser Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
f warded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
ixcellency the Governor's household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will move the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solibited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally oriiady patrons.
fs
df
MACHINERY;
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
jjEWEST OESICNS
"highest finish
LOWEST COStCj
C «*" (S
Jt
1*
1*
11**'
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, U^g
ESTIMATED FOB COMT
s
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Mel**® 1
22, KING
STfl


The Bulletin
Vo! 7-No. 349.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1886.
Price., od.
fczcS of C//At/?rf- wp /?//$-
St nSS <r, S/ <rt J>?z<r,r Set, £„ S/5
Two Views of His Lordship.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advanoe.)
Per annum .. .. •• 9 s ' 99'
Half-yearly 0 Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. • • 0 6a. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
J. M. lIARDING,
1 d whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
■ mces should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
mounts under £\.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
jrrespondenee column all contributions submitted whether
i the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
‘ lies or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
Vll communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
i ldress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
Close sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
■osponsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
terling in advance— which you may pay by Post Office
irder, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
.reek for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
f illowing offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
jotween September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
■ ’k> entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
-her agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
; awarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
"HE Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
he hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
f The Bulletin will forward him the name and
a. ldress of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1886.
Down on the Bed-rock.
' Vith characteristic vehemence and wit]
.lestionable taste—also characteristic, the
ydney Press has seized upon the “ Moun
Aennie outrage” as a text for most extrava
antly-worded sermons upon city larrikinism
.. id with similar unseemly haste the pulpits
have followed in the same violent strain
T luch as we applaud the righteous indigna
‘ ion of these authorities, we are still unable
l .) perceive that they have noticed the mos
i nportant lessons taught by Sydney out
ages, or that they have dilated upon mort
dian half the truth revealed by this ghastly
• pectacle of wrecked and ruined woman
hood. To invoke the hangman and the
logger as allies of maidenly innocence
against the ‘‘lower classes,” is consisten
rnough for those who hold that the weapons
of legal savagery alone can cure human
depravity ; but to charge the degraded lar
rikin with full responsibility for the utter
uin of these women, the ultimate victims o:
- ruel assault, or to brand them as the only
miners against the social code, is to misinter
•ret the testimony of evident facts. All the
outrages ” recorded in Sydney’s annals g<
to prove —That when lawless men of the
lowest class jointly assault a womai
their victim is always one who ha
already been hurled to the very depth
of social depravity, while, on the othe
hand, the victim of “ gentlemen, '
co-operating in similar fashion, is usually
■lure till subjected to their pollution. A
. bird conclusion drawn from daily observa
Lion is that virtuous and modest girls of any
age or station have nothing to fear from lar
Akins, but are in constant danger of being
insulted, wronged, and ruined by men in the
garb of gentlemen—we use the word in its
conventional sense.
* * *
In briefly reviewing the most noticeable o:
Sydney crimes consummated by gangs o:
brutal men, it is necessary to obliterate the
fanciful distinction made by the press between
“ assaults” committed by “ gentlemen” anc
“ brutal outrages” chargeable to “larrikins.’
The cases, except in the virtue of the victims,
are almost identical in motive, manner,
cruelty, and disgrace. First on the shame-
ful list is the North Shore case of some years
ago. Here the victim was an innocent girl,
while her assailants belonged to the respect-
able classes. The latter, seven in number,
were all convicted on the capital charge, anci
condemned to death, but the sentences were
commuted and all of the prisoners have since
been released. Some of them at the present
moment are shedding the delicate aroma of
their aristocracy in patrician circles, and
those who have uncles in the Assembly are
most likely serving their country by drawing
monthly salaries from the public Treasury.
The next in point of time was at Woolloo-
mooloo, and perpetrated by larrikins. The
woman, Elizabeth Phillips, whose death,
while lying drunk on a mound of gar-
bage in a city slum, was accelerated
by the savagery of her assailants,
had already sunk about as low as a woman
could sink in shame. Her last persecutors
merely thrust her out a little deeper, and she
died. But who led her to the edge of that
reeking slough ? Once her feet, we presume,
were set in the paths of virtue, and she was,
as many who saw her but a few years since
can testify, an exceedingly beautiful woman.
Who first led her astray only two or three
can toll, but half Sydney knows that in the
early days of her disgrace she was the mis-
tress of an exceedingly well-paid Civil ser-
vant, who, in his official capacity, had to
indirectly assist in the prosecution of those
whose alleged violence closed her worthless
life. When cast off by this gentleman she
was for some time “ kept ” by a distinguished
member of Sydney society —an aristocrat
whose record seems to be no bar to his entry
into the most exclusive circles. Abandoned
by him, Elizabeth Phillips went down hill
with fearful velocity, and when her name
was mentioned as one who had died on an
ash-heap in Woolloomooloo many men could
scarce believe it to be the same woman who
had so recently been accustomed to drive a
stylish roan pony in a neat little buggy
through. Sydney streets. Who betrayed
Elizabeth Phillips the virtuous w'e know
not; who assisted the downward career of
the beautiful Elizabeth Phillips is widely
known ; it was only the effigy of Elizabeth
Phillips, deprived of \ irtue, grace, beauty,
and all else that could attract, which the
filthy larrikin ultimately consumed. Who
most sinned against the woman ? The men
who robbed her of the sum of endowments
which made her “a little lower than the
angels,” or the men who at the last took
from her the life which alone was left to
her ?
Closely akin to this affair at Woolloo-
mooloo was the Mount Carmel outrage,
similar in the class of persons guilty of its
commission, and only differing as far as its
victim was concerned in her list of previous
protectors.
* * *
Turning from contemplation of such larri-
kin outrages, we are impelled to notice some
alleged crimes said to have been committed
by gentlemen. Of these the Hunter’s Beach
case is perhaps the most instructive. Two
young girls were persuaded to go out
sailing one evening by two gentlemen.
Next morning a boat was moored at
Hunter’s Beach, and one of the girls
complained to a policeman that she and
her friend had been criminally assaulted.
Arrests were made of the alleged assailants,
and the case came before the St. Leonards
Police Court. The evidence of a doctor and
the policeman was taken, and • then the en-
quiry was adjourned. When again called
on, it was found that the remaining witnesses
for the Crown were unwilling to give their
evidence. No steps whatsoever would seem to
have been taken to prevent interested parties
from arranging matters with the hostile
witnesses, and the prisoners were set at
liberty without more ado, notwithstanding
that the most brutal violence had been em-
ployed in the commission of the capital
offence. Both defendants were reported to
have been well-connected, and possessed of
considerable influence. Here wc quote from
the Sydney Globe, which writes of the
Mount Rennie prisoners :
“If there were the slightest suspicion that jus-
tice would be baffled in this ease, which, as the
perpetrators are not influential, is extremely un-
likely&c., &c.
The Hunter’s Beach defendants were influen-
tial. ' They were gentlemen, and the out-
raged girl was, according to the testimony of
the doctor, a man in the first rank of his pro-
fession, indubitably pure immediately prior to
that little excursion. If public suspicion be
correct as to the circumstances of this case, it
goes to prove our rule that gentlemen
usually select virtuous girls when they co-
operate in crime.
Another alleged case in point is the North
Harbour mystery. Its incidents are toler-
ably familiar. Elizabeth Brown was in-
duced by an accomplished “lady friend” to go
down on a little afternoon excursion to the
camp of Messrs. -Griffiths and James near
Manly. The story for the defence is that
the girls missed the return steamer, and the
quartette spent the hours from teatime till
something after midnight resting upon separ-
ate couches, and beguiling the hours by
philosophical conversation of an improving
character. Then the girl Brown care-
lessly strolled out of the tent, and was
not seen again till they found her outraged
body, bereft of life, on the adjacent beach.
We cannot say that either of the well-con-
nected gentlemen—one was a Civil Sen ant,
the other a merchant’s clerk—or the lady
friend, knew anything of the crime that had
been certainly committed, but would point out,
for the purposes of our argument, that
the examining surgeon’s evidence pointed to
the fact that impurity had not before that
night been a blemish of the girl’s life. With
the Mount Rennie affair we cannot at the
time of writing deal: while the matter is before
the courts we prefer not to prejudice the case
of the accused men as our journalistic and
clerical contemporaries have done.
* * *
So much at present for our first and second
points, and in support of the third, viz., that
modest and virtuous girls of whatever station
in life have more reason 'to fear the insults
and vice of men in the higher than in the
lower social grades, we would ask what man
in Sydney is the greatest pest, annoyance,
and danger to innocent girlhood ? The same
answer will come to many lips. He is a
member of Parliament, who by some credu-
lous persons is still esteemed a model of rec-
titude. A nocturnal street-prowler, and a
libertine of the most remorseless order, his
very glance directed at a faithful wife or at
her twelve-year-old daughter in the public
streets is a blasphemy against female virtue.
His presence in the House is a libel on re-
sponsible government and an indelible dis-
grace to his constituents, and the father
whose young daughter is ruined by his
agency would be committing a crime against
womanly purity by consenting to suffer the
wrong to be smothered in shameful silence.
And who is the next greatest social pest ?
Another M.P., who, although a married
man, drags his wife’s honour through the
mire in his unrelenting attack upon the in-
nocence of girlhood. And who next ? It
is difficult to tell. There are so many
human blow-flies in all the professions that
it is almost impossible to assign priority in
blackguardism to any of them.
* * *
And of the lesser offences against woman-
hood, those which may be classed as insults
and annoyances, men of the more refined
rank are by no means guiltless. It is a fact
easily proveable by observation that a modest
girl may walk unaccosted past expectorating
bands of foul-mouthed larrikins in the worst
purlieus of Woolloomooloo, for the typi-
cal hoodlum molests only those on or below
his own moral plane and intuitively sees all
the forces of law and of society arrayed be-
hind the decent woman who does not
dawdle. But in George-street, Sydney,
after dusk there would be much more to fear
from the gentlemen to whom the enlighten-
ment of female ignorance is a life-work. The
use of the word “gentlemen” here may
seem to be obviously incorrect, yet in ac-
cordance with common usage it is not so, for
as society is now constituted a ‘ ‘ man of posi-
tion ” does not cease to be a gentleman when
he becomes a blackguard. This fact is at the
root of the immorality of the age. A prince
who makes a tour through the colonies with a
squad of mondames at his heels is still effusively
welcomed and admired by the overwhelming
majority of persons who are more loyal to
royalty than to virtue ; a Lonsdale does not
cease to be a welcome companion of bishops
because he happens to be a publicly-pro-
claimed adulterer ; a Dilke coming to Aus-
tralia would be worshipped by society though
all the allegations against his honour were
believed ; and the notorious libertine, if he
be rich, and careful of his dress, need not
fear to meet with a cold reception in the
halls of the fashionable, and need not want
for a wife, so long as that misery-breeding
proverb that ‘ ‘ married rakes make the best
of husbands” is still believed and acted upon.
* * *
If any effective reform of the social evil is
to be made, it must commence by the adop-
tion of the truth that a blackguard cannot
lay claim to the privileges of gentlemen.
Sermons will be preached in vain, the authori-
ties will, in the words of the immortal
Knapp, “ cat, cut and cauterize” to no pur-
pose, and Social Purity societies will uselessly
work for the expulsion of suggestive pictures
from tobacconists’ windows so long as seduc-
tion is considered as the sport of gentlemen,
and so long also as the bishops and Lonsdales,
the Fitz-Smyths and Dr lees, walk arm-in-
arm together. Until the social system is
completely changed in its treatment of such
offenders, outrages will ever be rife ; it is
useless to try to enforce virtue by lashing
the larrikin into decency. He is but the
final result of a mammon-worshipping social
system. While he sees that reputed aristo-
crats, his superiors in rank, are wont to
occupy their spare time in seduction and
adultery, with the tacit approval of the
powers that be, the larrikin will consider it
a proof of gentle breeding to go and do like-
wise, and in pursuing this resolution he will
from time to time mightily shock the refined
ones by his coarseness of method. Let us go
right down to the bed-rock of the subject.
The outrages-of Mount Carmel and Woolloo-
mooloo are but the outcome of the system
which permits seduction to be ranked as the
pastime of gentlemen.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bloomsbury Bishop.
The one class of immigrants more hurtful to Aus-
tralia than the wall-eyed Chinaman is that
which includes foreigners who come out here as
governors, their flunkeys, and bishops. Aliens in
sentiment and habit, the governors make it their
one aim to degrade Australian aspirations to a low
Imperial level. Each one, unless his genius con-
fines itself to money-grubbing, deems it his mis-
sion to help grovelling colonists who wish to sell
the birthright of their land for a paltry mess of
Imperial pottage. Each of them wishes to make
the colony which pays him a weak imitation of
England, with himself as its gingerbread king.
Broken-down roues, insolvent lordlings, and aris-
tocratic duffers are sent out as Imperial Bagmen,
and so far the colonies have horn the infliction
with a patience that is more a vice than a virtue.
Similarly, it has hitherto been the practice to go
into tho highways and byways of the English
Church to worry up all the bishops required for
colonial use. The latest result of this practice is
seen in the appointment of the Rev. Field
Flowers Groe, or Goe, as some messages have
it, to the See of Melbourne. For months past
Henniker Heaton, Sir Graham Berry, and
others have been searching for some servant of the
Nazarene willing to sacrifice himself for £2OOO a
year, but for some time no clerical Pooh-Bah
was discovered whose family pride yearned
for a cash insult of this description. The
present nominee was on the list considered by the
Sydney committee when the local diocese was
without a head, but his nomination was thrown
out on the first ballot. Therefore Melbourne, in this
case, takes the mansummarily rejected by Sydney.
That, however, is a small matter ; the real evil is
that tho Sou.i.tL’n colony will he governed in
Church affairs by a man whose 55 years spent in
England have materially impaired his power of
adapting himself to altered conditions. Imbued with
English ideas, saturated with English prejudices,
and governed in his judgment of men and things
by the rules applicable in England, he will, on his
arrival, be as capable of mismanaging the busi-
ness of his diocese as his predecessors have been.
It is an offshoot of the disgraced and corrupt
Church in England that he will try to maintain
here, not a vigorous organisation suited to the
freedom of the country, and the wants of its
people. So long as the Anglican Church here
is bound to the English model, so long will it be
barren of influence and benefit, and while Eng-
lish bishops are imported any substantial reforma-
tion is impossible, To import Bloomsbury bishops
for the Anglican Church is as unjust and mis-
chievous as to bring over shiploads of Irish and
Italian firebrands and fanatics for the Romish
church; in either case the importation tends to
alienate the seot from the sympathies of Aus-
tralians.
♦
Drunk!
“Another disgraceful scene in the Now South
Wales Legislative Assembly,”—this is a standing
heading in the Sydney daily newspaper offices.
Once or twice a week a virtuously-indignant
Press relates, with an amusing air of surprise,
how one honorable member, in the course of what
is facetiously termed “debate,” referred to his
friend, the honorable member opposite, in terms
which even a pious Jew would in his wrath re-
frain from applying to a hog, and how certain
other honorable members then joined in the ob-
scene fray and brought about “something like a
pothouse brawl.” Now, why does not the daily
Press —say the S.M. Herald, which pays its two
proprietors about £250 a day. for guarding the
public interests—why does not the Sydney Morn ,
ing Herald, which is always in the Assembly
Chamber, and is perfectly well aware of the true
state of things, say the word right out ? “ Drunk ! ”
is the word. There are in the Legislative Assem-
bly of New South Wales several members who are
always—let us use plain Saxon—in a beastly state
of “ booze.” They are men who dare not attempt
to put on their boots until they have environed at
least three whiskies apiece, and each morn-
ing they arise to rebuke a Divine Provi
dence which has ordained that the head of
the drunkard shall until midday be six
sizes larger than his hat. In the House they
snore, and drivel, and hiccup, all the time. When
they are comatose they hold their heads down and
slobber, just like the ordinary drunkard who has
not been raised by the vote of the intelligent
elector to the high and holy office of a member of
Parliament; when they are excited they become
delirious; and when they are so much les3 drunk
than usual that they are able to walk past the
Speaker and bow to him without upsetting their
physical balance, the medical members of the
House nudge each other in the ribs and say :
“ Tut-tut! Just look at him—hopelessly alcohol*
ised —what a post-mortem he’ll make! ” A com-
mittee, consisting, say, of Doctors Tarrant,
Renwick and Mackellar, M's.P., should at once
be appointed -to report as to th°fitness of
the most notorious of the Parliamentary
sots of New South Wales to remain out-
side the walls of an Asylum for Hopeless
Drunkards. And when the committee have re-
ported, the drunkards should be handed over to
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., in the interests of experi-
mental cremation. They’d burn like blazes.
♦
Princely Piety.
The Melbourne Age, in a recent isiuc, devoted
a leading article to a comparison between the
Scotch strictness of the Sabbath as observed in
Melbourne and the fashion in which of late it has
been possible to spend this day in Sydney. The
Age doesn’t quite know what to make of it.
Melbourne is the capital of the most Radical
colony in Australia, and Sydney the head-centre
of Conservatism, yet the Conservative capital has
its Sunday music-halls and concerts, whereas in
the home of Australian Radicalism men and
women must seek their Sunday amusement in
church or go without any. The explanation of
the anomaly which so puzzles the Age appears to
us very accessible. It is to be found in the in-
fluence exerted, unconsciously perhaps, but Hill
exerted, by the principal daily newspapers of
Sydney. In the first place, each of our morning
papers being conducted by clergymen, the normal
appetite of the average citizen for sermons is fully
satiated during the week by the perusal of these
productions every morning under the thin and
transparent disguise of leading articles. In the
second place, one of the morning dailies insidi-
ously undermines the pulpit and saps its vitality
at the very tap-root—pew-rents—by publishing
every Monday morning the alleged pith of the ter,
mons preached on Sunday. There is consequently on
the part of its readers no necessity to go to church
at all. But still more virulent is the attack
upon Sabbath observance made by tho S. M.
Herald. That journal is still piou3 in some
features. Its occasional efforts at sparkling
writing, for example, positively reek of Scriptural
derivation and deep solemnity. But its Piety has
of late been much subordinated to its Loyalty. The
Herald still patronises the Almighty with a good
deal of unaffected condescension, but it worshii s
the Prince of Wales and all the Royal Family.
And only the other day it informed its readers
that the Most Holy the Heir to the Throne habi-
tually held extremely pleasant Sunday evening
parties at which music by distinguished artists,
and an occasional carpet-dance, and fun generally,
were indulged in. Now as the S.M. Herald has
uniformly preached in its daily sermons that no
member of the Royal Family can by any means
whatever do wrong, the inference impressed upon
its readers is necessarily that it is right and even
commendable to spend the Sabbath evening in
entertainments and gaiety ministered to by pro-
fessional ladies and gentlemen more or less con-
nected with the stage and concert platform. Con-
sequently the moral perceptions of its readers
have been so obscured that they no longer see
with clearness the infamy of similar amusements
being provided for loyal and devoted worshippers
of the Queen, God bless her, and the Royal
Family, in the theatres of Sydney. We hasten to
furnish an antidote against this deplorable cor-
ruption. There is a sharp and clear distinction
between the Prince’s entertainments and ;those in
Sydney. His Royal Highness is too deeplj' imbued
with Kerristian conviction and genuine piety ever
to so far forget his duty to his Maker as to make
a charge at the door ! There you have the essence
of true religion in a nutshell, and we call upon
the authorities to enforce, without a moment’s de-
lay, all the severit es of the act of Charles 11. of
pious memory, against persons who give Sunday
entertainments without being provided by the
State with a sufficient income to give them free of
charge.
♦
Wales’ Upheaval.
The snobbish effort to raHrs, by means of
two-guinea subscriptions, a of plate
for the Prince of Wales has ignominiously collapsed,
and Wales has at last begun to comprehend that
even the most faithful and devoted of colonists do
not think his “distinguished services” worth
forty-two shillings of legal tender. But Wales
spent so much time in assimmilating this fact that it


became difficult for him to retreat from his posi-
tion with dignity. It was necessary to decline the
absent testimonial, for which ho had so obviously
been waiting, and to state that under no circum-
stances could he dream of accepting a subscription
which, to judge from present appearances, could
only be made to look respectable by being changed
into copper and fetched along in a wheel-barrow.
Yet had Wales to thank the grovelling promoters
for their ghastly failure, and to say that he
“deeply appreciated” their compliment. The
subscriptions are to be transferred to the Colonial
and Indian Institute, and will probably
suffice to pay a fortnight’s salary to
the janitor of that establishment. The empire
on K which the sun of slush-born loyalty
never sets is convulsed with delight at Wales’
generosity ; and a hundred naked tribes are now
filled with solemn joy because the Prince has
refused a testimonial which he couldn’t get, and
announced that he feels compelled to decline a
gift which nobody has offered to him. Over the
length and breadth of the globe the news has been
spread. The Digger Indian heard it while feebly
prospecting for wild carrots, and, abandoning his
chase after that subterranean vegetable, he sat
down to admire a man who would reject such an
offering, and thus throw away the chance of
acquiring at one fell swoop enough carrots to last
a life time; the Maori prophet heard it and is
more than ever convinced that “the potato is
cookedthe information was flashed to Hong
Kong, and the Chinaman there thinks of deposing
Joss in favour of the obese son of Victoria
Regina. But even a British Prince cannot well take
coppers, especially in the present instance, when
no coppers are available, and Wales has, there-
fore, perpetrated a sudden moral upheaval which
will place his name on the eternal page of history
alongside that of the most self-sacrificing heroes
of antiquity.
♦
Fat and Lazy.
“ We are grown fat and lazy,” the Spectator
says, meaning by “we” the people of England,
and in relation to manufactures. Germany is
heading us in foreign trade, underselling us in the
markets of the world, and the reason is that Ger-
many is full of vigour and energy while w r e have
become “fat and lazy.” So it is written in all the
bald simplicity of utter falsity, and is it not re-
markable evidence of the truth of that old Scriptu-
ral prophecy, “ The Lord shall send you a strong
delusion, and ye shall believe a lie.” The Free-
trade of the Spectator is a strong delusion in-
deed, and the statement of the fatness and laziness
of the manufacturers of England is the gross and
palpable lie. Fat and lazy ! Why, at the time
that article was written artisans and manufac-
turers’ hands in England were starving by tens of
thousands —starving because of Free trade, starving
because, following the strict rules of political
economy purchasers of all classes of goods went
to Germany where men work twelve hours a day,
.and to Belgium where men, women, and children
work sixteen, rather than to England where,
through the emancipation wrought by trades’
unions and against all the efforts of the most
strenuous advocates of Freetrade, a reasonable
proportion of the day has been secured for rest.
Doubtless some fat and lazy manufacturers looked
at the starving, and said : —•“ They will come to
by and bye. A little more hunger, a little more
cold, and we shall have them at our own terms.
They can’t emancipate the whole world, these
trades unionists, and under our glorious system of
Freetrade we can array the whole world against
them.” It need hardly be said that the Sydney
Daily Telegraph takes the “fat and lazy”
theory of the Spectator as sound, and preaches on
it as an actual and demonstrable fact.
If there is one man in Australia who has a deeper
and holier reverence for free ads., or shows more
conspicuous ability in landing them than the
Anglican Bishop of Sydney, we must humbly con-
fess that we are as yet ignorant of his address.
Some pretty gorgeous things in the free ad. line
are done by circus-agents, theatrical managers,
and liver-pill men, but the very best of them are
beaten in a walk at their own game by “ Alfred
Sydney.” One device which is very dear to him
—or rather cheap to him and dear to the news-
paper man—was worked to a large extent last
week, when there appeared in the Evening News
a miserable little five-line ad. under “Wanted,”
inviting applications for the billet of sub-matron
at the Church Home. By itself the announce-
ment would have attracted a strictly limited
amount of attention, but that the Bishop con-
tributed to the same issue of the paper an
ingeniously-worded letter alluding to the
vacancy, awarding a quantum of praise
to the “ present excellent matron,” detail-
ing the qualities indispensable to her suc-
cessor, and incidentally stating that his Lord-
ship graciously condescends to concur in the
opinion of some one or other. The letter alto-
gether occupies just ten times the space of the
ad., and it must remain an open question whether
the letter was written by Alfred Sydney for the
sake of the ad., or the ad. paid for to enable the
insertion of the letter. Either explanation is
creditable to his Lordship, more especially as he
worked the same racket on all the other Sydney
papers on the same date, and makes a practice of
getting at them similarly whenever he condescends
to subsidise them to the extent of a shilling in
advertising any church biz. Alfred’s ingenuity
in getting his sermons printed is too notorious to
be worth a notice here, and after considering the
marvellous strategy of this good Bishop we are
forced to the conclusion that the time when the
“ children of the world ” used to get ahead of the
“ children of light” passed away for ever as soon
as Alfred Sydney cut his eye teeth. His Lord-
ship yanks the biscuit on the free ad. racket any-
how, even from such scientists in the same line as
“the much-travelled” Zulu Thompson, Lily
Langtry, and Warner’s Safe Cure man.
What of Gurth the Thrall of Cedric ?
This letter is the letter of a thinker.
Perhaps he has not thought very far, and perhaps,
too, the thoughts are from his heart as well as
from his head. Nevertheless, the germ of a great
ideal may be seen in the column he has written :
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —Every form of litera-
ture that has attempted to defend what is left to
the workman of his natural right, or that has
tried to rouse him into exerting himself to recover
the rights filched from him and hidden away like
stolen goods by modern law-makers, has always
been treated with obloquy or open oppression by
all shades of the non-producing classes.
The Southern slave-holders ostracised, or
tarred and feathered, or murdered outright, the
man who taught their workmen (slaves) to read;
the aristocracy and gentry of England, some 50
years ago, opposed the education of the slave
classes of the old country, because they knew that
if the slaves were educated ‘ they would all want
to be masters,’ and there would soon ‘be no
workmen.’ The arguments of the non-producing
property holders of that day were in that respect
perfectly sound, for I trust that even now there
are no workmen and no servant girls in the sense
in which they were in England 50 years ago. The
household ‘slavey’ who toiled 16 hours a day for
her greasy ‘ grub ’ and two shillings a week, has
passed away, is extinct —as extinct and as won-
drous strange as Silurian or Mammoth. The law-
makers and so-called Christian churches of that day
struggled hard to prolong her existence by the
sacrifice of millions of lives in war, and of
thousands of millions of money —the result being
a naked minus quantity—a legacy of foreign hate,
a national debt of a billion sterling (that never
can be paid), and a national flush of red-faced
shame which they still struggle to teach the serf is
‘ Glory.’ Aye, for even yesterday the Christian
bishops of Australia lifted up their voices to the
God of the poor and helpless and blasphemously
asked a blessing on those who went forth to cut
black throats in the Soudan.
* * *
Still the serf of the past is dead—dead as
the press-gang. The sunlight of education has
poured down on the unwholesome mass, and
plants of a fresher growth have within the space
of two score years supplanted it. And still the
destruction is not stayed. The built-up forest of
horrible rules which we call law is day by day
being felled. The loathsome trunks may still
encumber the surface, voracious suckers may still
flourish in some secluded spots, but many a
‘ Forest Devil ’ is at work, and one by one the
ugly-fanged roots are upheaved, rolled into heap 3
and burned. Now that the land is being rapidly
stumped and cleared, let us look for the labourers
who are to do this new world’s work. Are they
to be called by any of the old-world names—helot,
serf, slave, thrall, working man ? I venture to
think not —I hope not.
At the risk of being laughed at, I will try and
guess what will happen in this respect in the day
of the near future.
* * *
In the field of the workman’s mind,
humanity will probably be divided into two
classes. Firstly, those persons who year by year
produce more wealth than they destroy; secondly,
those who destroy more wealth than they produce.
He will perceive that he has a direct interest
in prolonging the existence of the former class,
and iust as direct an interest in the extinction of
the latter.
He will wonder at the absurdity of tolerating
the millionaire, the landlord, the usurer, the
lawyer, the soldier, the expensive ‘lady,’ and the
vast myriads of non-producers, while he allows
the whole rancour of his aversion to be turned
against the comparatively harmless common thief.
For if the thief be imprisoned for any reason,
it must be because he cannot live without de-
stroying the world’s wealth by the amount of food
he eats and the clothes he wears out. This thief
must, if he live and remain a thief, continue
destroying wealth, and he does not create wealth
to replace it. Therefore, he must die —not neces-
sarily the man, but the thief.
Now, if we are interested in the destruction of
the wealth-destroying, non-producing thief, who
perhaps makes the world the poorer by a hundred
pounds worth of bread, beef, wool, See., every
year, how much more are we interested in the
destruction of the man or woman who destroys
wealth ten times as fast and creates none to re-
place it ?
I worked this question out on a leaf of my
prayer-book amid the expensive fumes of scent-
bottles and the rustle of rich silks in my church-
pew six months ago, and I commend the exercise
to the sages of the Australian Parliaments as ex-
cellent practice.
* * *
And now I wonder if it is right, if it is
natural, that there should be any distinct working
class at all.
If we say that a working class must exist,
we cannot escape the question. Out of what
material is it proper it should be formed ?
Let us first decide —Out of what material
should a working class not be formed ?
Of course if any are to be exempt from labour
it must be those who are physically unsuited to it:
The weak, the small, the uncared-for and broken-
down, the hadly-nurtured. Of the remainder —
Shall we eliminate those with light hair ?—Unjust
to those with dark hair. Still the question pends :
Where is the material proper to perform the world’s
labour ? In lieu of the old widows of the wash-tub,
worn shapeless with toil, whom shall we place ?
Where are the lusty, over-fed masssive wenches of
the wealthy classes ?—the sixteen-stone duchess —
daughter of a hundred kings, nurtured on port-wine
and seasoned turtle? The men and women to
whom hard toil will be the less hideous —the ‘ well-
bred ’—the well-nourished—the muscular—those
who, in good condition, weigh the heaviest.
Surely this is the class out of which, with the
least evil, the working class must be formed.
But the heart and the reason begin to speak—
While ,fully admitting that it is more honor-
able and just, in fact Christlike, to insist that a
man or woman shall toil because he or she is best
fed and biggest and strongest, rather than because
poor and comparatively starved, still we must
rectify the wrong done to the ponderous progeny
of the blue-blooded classes.
In fact there must be no slave-class—no body
of helots forced to do the whole labour of a world.
All shall work !
There must be no mincing body of patent-
leathered gentry, who ‘ work only with their
brains.’ It requires quite as much ‘ brains ’of the
ordinary sort to become an average carpenter as
it does to become an average anything—doctor,
engineer, lawyer, soldier, architect, sculptor,
musician, statesman, novelist, poet. The mass of
them are mere copyists of the John Stephensons,
the Goethes of the present and past ages, and their
true value is the amount of labour turned into
wealth that may be fairly got out of them over
and above what they oonsume.
To work, sirs! with axe and mattock, that
others may have the fair share of leisure and rest
of which your unproductiveness assists to rob
them. To work, all of you! Men and women,
perhaps for two or three hours every day, perhaps
for 10 years eight hours per day,and then —free-
dom ! But away with young ladyism and the
‘ brain work ’ fraud. And shall there be less re-
finement ? Will the gods of our earth do their
work the less well awaiting the verdict of a thou-
sand millions of leisured educated men ? Will the
expression of thought roll less nobly from the soul
of prophet or poet because from childhood he has
been trained to feel shame at his ancestors who
allowed the poor and the weak, the young
children, the aged and the unfortunate, to toil,
while they were rigging themselves out in the
tinsel of unproductive frippery, and seriously
playing at kings and cardinals, barristerism and
soldierism, as if it were all real and to last, and
never to be wondered at and laughed down ?
Whatever will the C.M.G. man do with his
C.M.G.-ship in that day—the millennium —when
‘ The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and
the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and they shall
not destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the
Lord Rough,”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Student Hearn’s “ Government of England,”
fully reviewed by the S. M. Heiiald last week, was pub-
lished years ago, and a second edition has just been issued.
There are many other books equally suitable for review on
the same lines. Anew edition of "Robinson Crusoe” has
just come out, and will not, we hope, escape notice by our
eagle-eyed contemp...E.M.”: Your love-poem begins,
“My heart’s consumed with fiery flames.” So is your MS.
“ J.A.K.”: There are reasons which prevent us from pub-
lishing your letter. A member of Parliament had better
take up the case “J.P.” (Cunnamulla, Q.): Your clever,
though defective, verses are held over awaiting alteration...
“Chaffington”: Thespiritof your communication is drowned
in a flood of words... /‘ Indignant” (Echuca Vic.): If some of
the members of the local Y.M.O.A. are doing all they can to
reduce the price of drinks to 3d. we think it distinctly pro-
bable that they will succeed. ..You see the publicans must
concede the demands of their chief supporters “Orito”
(Cambewarra): Trot your Beach out and let us inspect him.
Every lake and every little harbour now has at least one
Beach “Yellow Agony”: Thanks, will work it up... J.
Mullins (Geraldton): We tried to use your whale, but he was
too big for The Bulletin. He is now a corpse in the
W.P.8....“ C.W.”: We could not venture to state that any
Sydney philanthropist works his female employees for 74
hours a week and pays them only 12s. for that time. Your
assertion may be perfectly true, but some further proof is
necessary “Thespis” (Maryborough, Q.): What is our
definition of a gentleman ? Why, a man who subscribes
to The Bulletin annually in advance “Cobden”:
(Bathurst): A fig for your Freetrade war-whoop. In the first
place, your figures as to the relative rates paid to railway
employees in N.S.W. and Victoria are absurdly mis-stated;
and secondly, even if true, they would prove nothing. As
well proclaim the superiority of Protection on the ground
that a scavenger is paid a shilling per load more in Mel-
bourne than in Sydney “Horsewhip”: Kegret that
we can only return your matter “Old Buffer”: Will
try and find space for some of it “J.C,": Poor
devils! Under the circumstances, it would be a
shame to jibe at their miserable “ In Memoriam” verses
“J. Sauve”: You forget to say also that “there is no
common platform for a Protestant and a Reman Catholic
Democracy.” All these miserable modern religious quarrels
are in the interest of the clergy, who work with the “ aristo-
cracy,” and, dividing the people, keep them enslaved
“ J.R.” (Goulburn): Yes, Victoria-street, Westminster N.W.,
is his address “Another Cornstalk”: A first-class libel.
“D.L." (Darling River): You had better see Dr. Spring-
thorpe, Collins-street, Melbourne, on the subject "J.
Danson ” : Extract of meat is a good stimulant, but it's not
a “food.” “ W.S.” (Warwick): Thanks for information.
We didn’t know that it was a part of the clergy’s duty to
square valueless-cheque cases “R.W.”: A judge doesn’t
work for nothing, but lots of newspaper proprietors do.
It’s easy to talk high morality if you’ve £2500 a year
and a fat pension provided for your old age
“ W.A.A.” (Brisbane): All right “ J. Sinclair’ : Letter
unaccountably delayed, and arrived too late “ M. Quill ” :
No, really we don’t care about it. We have no wish to
monopolise all the talent “G. E.” (Narandera, N.S.W.) :
Thanks. Will probably use “Astroea”: What are
you driving at ? Let us know the interpretation of your
par “ D.S.A." : Turnips not to hand. They will probably
go in search of your MS. on arrival. Try some nobler
theme “ Cobdenite ” : We have so far been obliged by
lack of space to postpone publication of article dealing with
the questions contained in your letter “ H.H.” (Young):
Will be considered “ D. Mac.” : Your information will be
used as opportunity offers...“ S. Joel” (Brisbane): No fear...
“S.“: Poem no use unless you could twist it into a tailor’s
ad. somehow “J.T.R.”: Thanks. Some of the items
useful “F.E.M.”: Such incidents always interesting even
when sent down in the rough “ Peter Pickle ”: Our eagle
eye is turned full on the dodges you mention....“ Glen-
yarrah ” : If Beach’s stroke was as irregular as your metre a
mud-barge would not have been steady enough for him to
row in “F. J. Moody”: Statements are noticed in another
column. Harriet” (Ballina): By inserting your item we
would oblige him as well as you, for he would hen have a
chance of looting us “Anglo Caledonian”: This New
Hebrides matter was dealt with in last issue. One of your
points, however, is worthy of notice. You say, “England
and France have now only 24 miles of sea separating them :
why then should an English colony fear, because a French
colony is planted in an island of the sea 1500 miles away?”
But you make a mistake in supposing that the majority of
Australians object to a French occupation of the New
Hebrides. It is only a very small but marvellously noisy
section who do so, led on by a pious and Jingoistic press
“R.J.”: The evidence of the children cannot legally be re-
ceived unless they know all about hell “Jabek”: The
“supper was well carried out,” was it? You seem to have
been carried out too, just before writing us “ J.M.” : The
reason probably was that Lord Belmore had married Mr.
Gladstone’s niece “ Margaret S." :We grant you that “ a
good Governor,” as you and—pardon our bluntness —silly
women in general, understand the phrase, “ does good by in-
ducing rich people to circulate their money.” But there is a
contra account. All this bogus magnificence and penny
Imperialism is the means of inducing lots of vain people who
haven’t a red cent to jingle on a tombstone to ape the
“ style” of those who go in for display on the basis of solid
wealth. The ridiculous outrider business is a fit type of the
whole system, and ought to be—excuse the mixed metaphor
—morally rotten-egged....“ A. L. Edwards”: Write to
Mr. Bowland-Hill-Henniker-Heaton on the subject. His
best address, if you want your letter to reach him at once, is
“Windsor Castle, care of Queen Victoria”; but if you are.
not in a great hurry, Carlton Club or House of Commons will
d 0....“ A.J.J.”: We have a right “to speak thus.” The
society which now gets on to its holy hind legs about the
Mount Bennie affair is the selfsame society which sent The
Bulletin to gaol for trying to show up the evils of larrikin
ism a few years ago “G. Main”: Dr. Laura Morgan, who
is highly qualified and practises in Melbourne, is the only
one we know of “Partene”: Yes, and Mr. Service stores
his alcohol in the basement of a cathedral leasehold
“ Humourist ” : Humourist assured that we will not neglect
it “Rao”: No. “ What we wish, we believe’’—and
there’s the end of it...." R.L.” : Mr. Ileydon is just now on
a visit to Brisbane...." James Ash”: It was Frederick
Belton’s story. In some contributions to the Sydney Mail
he told how after having one evening rebuked a talkative
stranger in the pit of a Boston theatre, he was chagrined to
learn that the stranger was Longfellow.... “ Marco” :We
shall have something to say, perhaps, next week about Mr.
Norton’s mission “ James M.” : We consider that the
removal of Mr. Dangar from the Commission of the Peace
was a very proper proceeding—“Boko” : Nonsense. No-
body asks Lady Carington to dance ; the etiquette is to wait
until you are asked “Conacian”: You might keep us
posted in N.Q. affairs “A Country Vicar” (In-
verell) : Will tackle your problem next week
“Au Kila”: Thanks “Rodo”: Perhaps he had been
dining off a grey-headed fowl which had died of rheumatic
gout and had anchylosis of every joint in its body “ H.
Hunter” (Narandera): As we can’t tell what became of the
forks we would rather not tackle your grievance. As for the
other man, he may have broken a whole syndicate by the
quantity of mutton he has used. Some men can eat an
entire flock and then look hungry “Jack” (Pastoria):
Which Smith do you me:tn ? AVho on earth is Frasher ? And
what was he riled about? Send us a diagram of the affair
•and a map of Smith.
B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
df
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE boards” Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
sd
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many Quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
PULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE - DINING - '
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
SHBI
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
‘'VT'OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’ConnGll-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
Bt
mm
Drawing room'cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
fs
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and’
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
dfs
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 11s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


The Keferee
When the Ly-ee-Moon went down, Bishop
Barry preached a special sermon to thousands of
his flock, imploring their charity for the helpless
widows and orphans, and the result was —what ?
—£33. On the settling night of the late A.J.C.
meeting, the Bathurst trainer, Burton, walked
into Tatt.’s, and addressing those fiends in human
form (vide parson Jefferis on gambling), the book-
makers, said: “Gentlemen, Roger Davis, the
jockey, had his arm broken in the last Suburban
Handicap, and as this is his second fall during the
past few weeks, he is down on his luck at pre-
sent.” In one hour’s time nearly £lOO was raised
in that room for the crushed hoy.
* * *
The great institutions of Australia are at
last beginning to be properly recognised in
England. Even the blast Labouchere was startled
when he received a circular about a Melbourne
“ Cup consultation,” and he rises to ask if “ James
Walters, secretary, the Club Hotel, King-street,
Newtown, Sydney,” was ever a member of the
firm of Bailee and Walter, who flourished in
London 15 years ago and were mixed up in the
glorious Benson swindle. The effusion, he thinks,
is somewhat in the style of the enterprising
Walter of those days. But then Labouchere is
rather recent in the matter of Australian “consul-
tations.” If he knew them a little better, he
would be aware that the style was always the
same, and the results to the investor are much the
same also.
* # *
Walter G. George, the English ex-amateur
pedestrian, who is coming to Australia, lately ran
a mile at Lillie Bridge Grounds in the astounding
time of 4min. 12§sec. Hitherto the occasions on
which a mile has been run in Imin. 20sec. have
been few and far between. George was known to
have cut that time by a fraction of a second, and
Cummings, his unsuccessful opponent, was ac-
counted to have achieved a phenomenal perform-
ance when he established a record of 4min.
16 l-ssec. George has thus established his claim
to be the most wonderful runner at a mile ever
known. It is now cabled that George has beaten
Cummings in a ten-mile race. By the way,
Malone, of Sydney, suggests that a match should
be arranged between himself and Samuels, the
aboriginal, with a view to the winner being pitted
against Hutchens, who will be in Sydney shortly.
* * *
Clipped from the London Referee : —‘ ‘ A
Subscriber (Narandera, N.S.W.) : T. Malone did
not run at amateur championship sports 1880. In
1881, in first heat of 100 yards, Cowie was first,
Cleaver second, Malone third, Myers fourth.
Cowie won easily by a yard, the Irishman was
a foot behind Cleaver, and the American about
the same distance in the rear. Myers got badly
away. Course slightly down hill. Time, 10 l-sth
sec. Malone did not run in final, which Phillips
won by a foot from Cowie. In long jump Malone
was second with 22ft. 7in., P. Davin being first
with 22ft. llin. They jumped down hill. At
championship sports, 1882, in second heat of 100
yards, Malone got best of start, and beat Phillips
by two yards, but in final Phillips was first, Cowie
second, and Malone third. Phillips won by six
inches, three yards dividing second and third.
Time, 10 l-sth sec. Malone won long jump with
21ft. Bin. He was considered a fair man over
here, but there were several amateurs who could
heat him. He never showed very great form at
440 yards. Hutchens deposited £lOO to make a
match with anybody, but Malone did not cover it. ”
* * *
The Melbourne Sportsman solemnly warns
Mr. James White against doing as he likes with
his horse Trident. The writer, apparently, has
got his “ bit” on the brother to Navigator, and he
winds up by saying that if the Hon. J. W.
scratches the horse for the Y.R.C. Derby, “he is
a bolder and less honourable man than I take him
to be.” It is such skiting as this which provokes
owners to assert their prerogative and snap their
fingers at public opinion. As far as we know,
Mr. White has not yet backed Trident for the
Victorian Derby, and if he can win the race with
a second string, he will certainly be “bold”
enough to scratch the crack, and leave his honour
to take care of itself. Now-a-days, seemingly, a
man who is lucky enough to possess a good
animal is expected to refer to the sporting press
for instructions as to when and where he is to
run it.
* * *
If Beach has received a bona fide offer of
£2OOO to go to America and row Hanlan, why does
“Our William” hold off? His seeming high-
headedness may probably be explained away by
the mistake of an 0 in Reuter’s telegram. £2OO,
we guess, is the price which Hanlan is prepared
to give or take, and it is certainly as much as he
will get the chance of taking. The Canadian may
find it hard to accept his present position in the
aquatic scale, but we can scarcely credit him
with possessing the sublime impudence to ask
£2OOO for the pleasure of coming over to Australia.
Until the ex-champion has re-asserted his claim to
be considered a power on the water, there would
be very little money in a match between him and
Beach, on the Parramatta or anywhere else.
Bearing this in mind we can only think that
Hanlan is bluffing with his recent offers and chal-
lenges. Granting that Beach kept him fooling
about in Australia, that is no reason why he can
keep our man fooling about on the other side.
Hanlan stayed here in the hope of winning back
his reputation. Beach holds his reputation, and
is able to please himself, and after giving every-
body a fair chance for the last four or five months
the all-conquering William can afford to ignore
Hanlan’s tardy vap'ourings without laying himself
open to the charge of funk.
* * *
The defeat of the Australians by Kent
was not so inexplicable after all. Kent appears
to have worked quite into the front rank of Eng-
lish counties, and boasts, in the four Hearnes, a
cricketing family worthy to be classed with the
renowned Graces or Walkers. The bowling of
Alec, and the batting of G. G. Hearne (also a first-
class bowler) have been very successful during
the past season. Within a fortnight G. G. Hearne
scored 53 (not out) against Australia, 117 against
Yorkshire, and 53 and 126 against Middlesex,
making an average of 116 for three innings in first-
class company. In the latter match another of
the brothers, Frank Hearne, scored 47 and 142.
These are quite as good as the best achievements
of the Graces in their best days, and the chances
are that when the Australian Eleven meets an
All-England team it will be found to include
three members of the Hearne family. It is a pity
that none of them are coming out with Shaw’s
crowd, which (with the exceptions of Lohmann
and Maurice Read) will be composed of North of
England players.
* * *
The most extraordinary feature about the
Beach-Wallace Ross match was the fact that it
ever came off. Let’s see. Matterson beat Ross,
Teemer beat Matterson, Beach beat Teemer. On
paper, Beach had such an uncommonly soft thing
that we are almost inclined to doubt the genuine-
ness of the match. None of the English scullers
can find “monkeys” to give away in this reckless
fashion. They never open negotiations with a
man of any calibre, now-a-days, without first
stipulating for a few seconds’ start. If Wallace
Ross really was backed, and with British gold, it
might just as well have been laid out on Perkins
or Bubear, for the sake of auld lang syne.
* * *
As soon as Billy Farnan gets about again
we may be having another merry mill ’twixt him
and Jackson. Then, if Farnan succeeds in again
taking down the darkie’s number, we shall see
Lees wresting the championship from his old
opponent, and losing it once more to Jackson-—and
so on. This is what may happen. But, judging
from what we saw on Saturday week, it will be
good odds against Farnan if he ever gets into the
ring with Jackson again.
* * *
12,938 runs for the loss of 621 wickets,
were scored by the English teams against the Aus-
tralians during the recent cricketing season. The
Australians scored 12,043 runs for the loss of 631
wickets.
MELBOURNE SPORTING ITEMS.
(From Our Own Correspondent.)
At Melbourne Hunt Club meeting, the
amateur jockeys only reserved one race for them-
selves. The form they showed in that event fully
justified their modesty.
The Tasmanian horse, Duke of Athol, en-
gaged for Caulfield, ran in the mile and looked
well enough, but was evidently very sore and was
hopelessly beaten at a furlong. Six furlongs
seems to be the length of his tether. * I vote
against him for both Cups.
For the mile, Kohai and Levite were said
to be heavily backed. Neither got a place, but
perhaps neither showed true form. Anyhow, I
don’t think Levite has the remotest show for
Caulfield. lam more careful about Kohai. The
stable perhaps has really something good in
Mozart, who, I should say, holds Kohai safe over
any distance.
Gardenia, the Caulfield pet, piloted by
O’Brien, sailed along evidently satisfied with her
position at the finish, but perhaps ere Caulfield
ends she may be nearer the front.
Giovanni ran well for six furlongs, but re-
quires more time. As for Islander it puzzles one
how he escaped notice. At three furlongs he was
20 lengths behind everything ; the calm style in
which he cantered after his field was delicious
and utterly out of keeping with his splendid track
form. Keep your eye on Islander.
The S.A. party, who were cocksure, were terri-
bly disappointed at the defeat by Mistletoe (King-
ston stable) of their Maribyrnong candidate,
Hortense, who ran second ; Harridan, from same
stable, was third. The three are engaged for
Maribyrnong Plate, as also are Patience, Lieder-
tafel, Glentworth, Albert Lodden, St. Michael,
Teuton, and Lady Lovel, who also started. To
win they must improve considerably. Mr. Pear-
son’s withdrawal of Bedouin in favour of his
second string, Citadel, disappointed many who
look upon him as one of the few Victorians likely
to keep the prize from Sydney.
At Flemington there is uneasiness at the quoer
form shown by Quentin Matsys in his work. Mr.
Dakin ascribes it to muscle-soreness; some
amongst us here think Quentin good for Caulfield,
but I don’t dream of him. If the distance were a
mile the big chestnut might be dangerous with his
weight. The extra four furlongs will stop him.
The much-cracked-up Remus has gone wrong
while doing good work and thriving on it. He
has been eased off. This is bad luck for Cook,
whose chances were brilliant.
Eagle Grange is progressing nicely under Abe
Davis ; although perhaps not up to Cup form he
may shine in small events.
The frolicsome Lesbia’s stable are, I hear, some-
what confident of victor? at Caulfield if the mare
be well, but I vote against her.
The above, with Dunlop, St. John, Levite, First
Consul, King’s Son, Islander, and Don Giovanni
constitute the greater part of those training at
Flemington for Caulfield Cup. Barring St. John
and Islander I don’t see any with a show of win-
ning.
Caulfield Foal Stakes looks a moral for Yetman
should he come from Sydney. Victoria’s only
hope is the speedy Epicurean. As I write I don’t
know if Tabard will see the post. I hope he does,
as he can gallop.
The Guineas is more open. I am hopeful of
Maddelina, but I am afraid Victoria’s chance of
getting the stake is “ Buckley’s show.”
The Melbourne scribes, especially “ Augur,”
still harp and snarl over Ringmaster’s scratching
for the Metrop. The moral of the whole affair is
that if backers choose to handle fire they must
expect burns. These they can avoid by keeping
religiously away.
THE CAULFIELD RACE MEETING.
[By Wire.]
(From our Occasional Correspondent.)
Melbourne, Tuesday.
In forwarding you my anticipations so far ahead
of the opening of the meeting, I am placed at a
great disadvantage. However, the following
may be near the actual results :
Maiden Plate, one mile —Menotti, Lord of the
Manor, Buckley.
Hurdle Race, two miles—Dunrobin, Distiller,
Ocean.
Great Foal Stakes, half-a-mile—Epicurean, Yet-
man, Lava.
Caulfield Guineas, one mile —Maddelina, Vol-
cano, Acme.
Toorak Handicap, one mile—Hogmanay,
Maroney, Richworth.
Billy Hoskins!
Poor old Billy Hoskins is dead. And niany and
many an old fellow looks in the glass and shrugs
his shoulders and thinks it is time to put off the
old Adam and get ready for the next world.
Billy’s official record puts him at 71, but people
who had listened to him yarning about old days
would judge him to be at least 100. He was a
shining light on the stage in London twenty years
before New South Wales obtained the privilege of
responsible Government, and before that he had
made a name in the provinces. Then before he
faced the footlights at all he had passed through
Cambridge, though without carrying much away,
perhaps, and had been called to the bar. The old
man was full of memories, and lived a big life till
the very last. He was nearly a generation older
than George Coppin and Harwood and Greville
He came out in the first flush of the gold time,
and played away through all the Vic'orian
theatres from the earliest pavilion on Bendigo Lo
the last new Royal in Melbourne. Billy was very
much a marrying man. One of his most brilliant
efforts in this way was his espousal of Miss
Florence Colville In Christchurch, New Zealand.
With Colville he starred his way from the Bluff
right North, giving the rustics of the little provin-
cial towns their first taste of genuine comedy. At
Christchurch he arrived at the conclusion that it
was not good for man to be alone, and so Miss
Florence Colville became Mrs. William Hoskins.
And what a day there was in Christchurch at that
illustrious wedding ! The chief person in the
Cathedral city of Maoriland at that time was Sir
Cracroft Wilson, otherwise “ The Nabob.” The
Nabob had a place at Cashmere, filled with his
share of the loot of many an Indian city, where he
lived in a sort of oriental splendour with
servants innumerable, and, as guests, all visi-
tors to the city who had seen the world and
could talk about it. Billy was there, of
course, and from Cashmere was married. The old
Nabob, straight as a pine, brown as a hazel-nut, and
with a moustache lying like a wisp of snow
across his face, drove his four greys up to town,
and the Bishop, in lawn sleeves, met them at
the door, and Flo. Colville looked innocent
as an angel and pretty as an houri ; and many
people of the town got drunk that night. What a
day of pomp it was ! How the horses pranced
how the drums beat and the bells rang, and old
Billy stalked dignified through it all, as his name-
sake the Kaiser through a court function ! But
things changed, alas ! Billy came to Sydney ten
years after, and the Christchurch bride was not.
There was another wedding, for the old
cavalier hated to be single, and somehow fine
women seemed to think more of him on the verge
of three-score-and-ten than of most young fellows
of five-and-twenty. He gave himself away again,
this time to a sweet creature of 17, and went
down to Melbourne, and there Bishop Moorhouse
gave him a commission to teach his clergy to read
the church lessons and their sermons. Yes, Billy
held a class of divines, and his lordship did not
disdain at times to be amongst them. It was
about his last good work— his later attempts at
play were melancholy to those who remembered
him in the digging days. Hamlet’s father’s Ghost
was about the only character left that would fit
him. As the Ghost at times he stalked with dig
nity. Poor old fellow, he will be haunting many
a stage now, and many a memory. And by all
who knew him well the memory of him will
always be courteously entertained, for all the
record of his life was good and bright. Fifty
years on the boards, fifty years in the blaze of a
footlight, a competent actor from first to last, and
always and in all things a gentleman.
The irony of fate sends Field Flowers to
the Cabbage Garden.
Mr. T. M. Slattery, Chairman of Com-
mittees in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, is to
be married shortly.
Spofforth, says the London Sporting
Times, has been apprenticed to George Lohmann,
and takes the 51b. allowance.
More tales about colonists on the “bust.”
One of them, who was at a party at Eaton Hall,
went up to his Grace of Westminster and ex-
claimed with a smile, “ Glad to make your
acquaintance, Duke.” Then he shook hands with
the aristocrat who looked at him as if he had
pawned his hones and lost the ticket, begged a
photograph from his album, got the ducal auto-
graph on the hack, told the duke he would look
in again when passing, and strolled away.
Says the Sydney Echo, in a leader
“ The eight-hour privilege is an indirect cash con-
tribution levied upon the working-man ; he has to
pay it in the shape of increased rent, and a per-
ceptible increase in the price of {commodities. 7s
the financial position of the Australian mechanic
any better than that of the English artisan?
That is a problem which is well worth working
out.” The Australian workman should paste this
extract in his hat. Was ever so monstrous a
question asked since the world began ?
When we saw in the Sydney Evening
News on Eight-Hours’ Day an ode by “ One of
the Employed” f (signed “J. Cook”) beginning
with “ Arise ! thou glorious orb ” and winding
up with
“ Then all the world shall know in stem reality,
Australia is the labourer’s land of liberty,”
we at once knew it was in every sense of the word
strictly original. But the excellent verses “By
One of the Unemployed,” printed directly above
the aforesaid ode, and purporting to have been
brewed expressly for the occasion, were not
original. The News, which is eternally prating
about “ the encouragement of Australian litera-
ture,” deceived few decent people by its impudent
attempt to palm off as its own a well-known set of
verses which first appeared eight or ten years ago
over the signature of Mr. Garnet Walch, of
Melbourne.
The eight-hours’ demonstration in Sydney
last Monday was the greatest event of the kind
ever known in N.S.W. Twenty-two trade
societies were represented, and they mustered a
total of 10,000 men—an army of which the colony
has every reason to be proud. But somehow the
Conservative Press, even at this late hour, seems
to retain a grudge against the emancipation of
the working classes, and though the ultra-respec-
table S.M. Herald raises no protest it shoves the
little Echo in front to cast a stone at the move-
ment. Among the columns of laudanum printed
on brass which make up that journal, we actually
read that it is this same eight hours’ system which
raises rents and does other sinful things tending
to make life a burden to the poor. We always
thought that rents went highest in localities where
jobbers had run land up to £:00 a foot or so, and
ascribed the extortions practised to monopolies
and swindles, but the Echo seems to know better
—it is all owing to the fact that a stiff-necked and
brutal race won’t work 16 hours a day.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
A district of 3000 adults in Queensland!
drank 4216 gallons of proof spirit in six months.
“The S.A. Register states that Princes
Edward and George of Wales, in their book on the
oruise of the Bacchante, insist upon the urgency
of some provision being made for the defence of
King George’s Sound...“ Who is the first assistant
at Wollongong Post-olfice ? ” is the favourite conun
drum in that village. A correspondent to the local
paper asserts that the official’s life is one long
joyous holiday Morpeth (N.S.W.) Council de-
clines to plant any more trees, as the “ free and
independent ” pull them up for firewood
Another Crimean veteran —who, as a country
paper says, “ has upheld the victorious arms of
the British Empire for centuries past ’’—turned up ,
his toes to the daisies in Plattsburg, N.S.W., last
week...! “At Jericho (Q), a carrier has been
sued for ‘ ‘ wrongfully trampling down and eating
certain grass to the value of £5.” What a hungry,
Nebuchadnezzar! Chinese shearers and rouse-
abouts have been employed on some N.S.W.
stations this year......At Melbourne, it is reported
that bodies lying in the morgue are daily de-
voured by rats owing to the neglect of the
authorities to provide wire covers. Horrible !
One of the new Imperial armoured cruisers is “ to
be christened The Australia, another sign of the
times,” says Figaro The Hay Dawn Block and
Wyndham, Charters Towers (Q.), recently floated
in London, have got 15170 z. from 872 tons; and
the Black Jack report 6200 z. from 350 tons.
* •* «
Dear old Louise Michel has just been
fined £4 and sentenced to four months’ imprison-
ment for sedition. She spoke fluently but not
eloquently in her own defence Earl Cairns’
whilom fiancee, Miss Adele Grant, is, we road,
weaving the dresses of the trousseau prepared for
her marriage with his Lordship for every day,
instead of saving them until she goes to church
with the wealthy Dutchman to whom she is now
engaged......M. Fournier de Flaix, a scientific
Frenchman, has come out as an apostle of alcohol.
He contends that the statistics of all countries go
to prove that national longevity is largely de-
pendent upon the amount of spirits consumed,
and that crime and suicide are most common
where the greatest abstinence from liquor is
observed. M. de Flaix’s conclusion is that “it is
the nations with the most vital powers, the
greatest wealth, and the best morals who consume
most alcohol.” The Indo-Colonial Exhibition is
debited with about £l2OO for feeding the Commis-
sioners of the various colonies The Tichborne
claimant, when interviewed in New York lately,,
said that “ Miss Baring of the wealthy banking
family is interested in him.” Emperor William,.
of Germany, lately made himself ill with crayfish-
soup In August four crematories were opened
in Pere la Chaise, Paris. The cost of each crema-
tion is only 12s The Czar might surely have
selected a less suggestive gift for the Sultan than
a mantle made of the skin of a Russian fox
Chinese merchants are flocking into Burmah. A
dead heat between the two Johns London
Punch pictures are said to be invented “at a
dinner.” We have just been looking at ’em and
conclude that they are invented after a dinner
A characteristic letter left by a considerate sul-
phate-of-morphia suicide in a Chicago hotel
“ Dear Charlie, —Goodwin promised to leave three'
dols that he borrowed from me at the hotel, hut
did not do so. Will you tell him to pay Hallowed,,
between State and Wabash, 40 cents, and Neufelt
25 conts ? That, I think, covers my whisky bills.
I will my carcase to some medical institute for
them to try and find out why the mental andl
physical machinery of my system did not pull to-
gether. With kind regards to the boys, who 1
tried so hard to make a bad egg good, I am yours;
in death, as well" as in life. —Dick Jones.”
“ ’Tis nice lo be married,” said Patti,
With a cute litUe allegro cough ;
“ Well, rather,” remarked Nicolini,
“ Though the novelty’s slightly worn off.’'
A New York woman named Robinson, re*
cently arrested for poisoning her son, is now sus-
pected of having murdered a hundred persons
these last four years Battenberg doesn’t yet
know enough Kngli3h to curse with. At the
Court Theatre lately, and during a play that set
the audience screaming with delight, he sat
“ sullen and unmoved without relaxing a muscle.’'
.... The French authorities, not content with striking
the Due d’Aumale’s name off the army list and
banishing him, have just added insult to injury
by decorating his mistress, Leonide Leblanc, with
the order of “ Officer de l’Academie,” for her
literary services A majority of the (’ouncil of
the Borough of Chelsea Liberal Association have
just recorded a special resolution of “ entire belief
in Dilke’s innocence of the charges brought
against him.” Elderly husband (iokingly) :“I
do not believe in mourning, my dear. You need
not wear it for me after lam gone.” Young wife
(earnestly) : “ But, my darling, how would people
know* I was your widow ?” The Prince of Wales’
eldest son is venomously described as being “as
dull as William IV., as obstinate as George 111, as
coarse as George IV., as mean as all of them, and
a* useful.” He doesn’t belie his appearance The
heart of the mad King of Bavaria has been put
into a costly silver urn, which has been deposited
with great pomp and ceremony at Neuotting,
where the hearts of all the recent kings of the
country are kept similarly potted Her Majesty
had not been many hours at Balmoral the other
day before a certain quiet spot in Crathie Church-
yard was watered with her tears. Though bis
name is Brown, he always is green in the memory
of his royal mistress.
The Salvation Army at Grafton have
started “ saving” the blacks. The first convert
was King Nobby, the ruler of the local “ abbeys-”
“ Mine word, this budgeree,” said the newly-
fledged saint as soon as he was installed. “ Why
so, Nobby ?” asked one of the officers. “Plenty
rum, plenty music, and bimeby I run away with
your missus,” answered the cute savage.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“lolanthe” p. 14
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy „ ~
Royal Standard Theatre—“ Faust" 15
New Opera House—" Romeo and Juliet ”.. .. „ ~
Foresters’ Hall, St. Peters—Lynch Family
Bellringers .. ..,
“ lolanthe ” at Sydney Royal is as gay
and as utterly absurd as ever. Everything is
mixed and confused, and the madman who
endeavours at the commencement to wrestle with
latitude and longitude is laid prostrate in one act,
and falls down in a quivering heap with a gsogra-
phical nightmare sitting on his chest. The scene
appears to be laid in England, if it is fair to judge
from the stolid Tommy Atkins who is upheaved
in the last act, the comic Chancellor, who, like all
British Chancellors, flings his robes on his head
and dances in Palace Yard, Westminster, and the
assemblage of peers—-the wildest lot of crowned
guys who ever blocked a Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill in the Upper House; but mixed with these is a
shepherd who hardly answers to the heavy mud-
footed, clay-pipe-smoking English animal, and
who says he comes from Arcadia, and a shepherd-
ess belonging to the same locality. Strephon, too,
is obviously a man of peace, and yet in the land
where Arcadia used to be the agriculturist goes
armed like a brigand, and everybody is haunted
by an uneasy consciousness that Eyoub Pasha is
somewhere beyond the distant hills, and that his
Syrians and Bashi-Bazouks are keeping an eagle
eye on things in general. Under these circum-
stances there is no resource but to throw geography
and anatomy to the winds and go in for unscien-
tific enjoyment, and the nightly crowd at the
Royal do this in real earnest.
* * *
Miss Alice Barnett, we learn, has renewed
her engagement with the company for another 12
months, so her billet as the Fairy Queen may be
regarded as permanent. She is a tall and power-
ful Queen, capable of throwing a fairy or an insur-
ance-agent at least two miles, but she looks a
sovereign every inch-—there are a good many inches
altogether—and her singing is good throughout.
Mr. Howard Vernon, as the Lord Chancellor, is
doubled up with his weight of nisi prius lore ;
his song regarding nightmares and dreams is
about the best in the opera, and the chief objec-
tion to be made in his case is that he is much
too “spry” and a little too grotesque for his
part. Miss Ida Osborne is reported to have
been standing on her head at the bottom of a
froggy stream for 25 years, but she makes a
charming lolanthe; and, as regards the other
characters, they might have been considerably
worse. This remark applies—among others —to
Mr. Brennir, who, in the part of Strephon, ap-
pears to be oppressed by the recollection of his
decaying extremities and his immortal upper half.
Even in his duets with Phyllis, when he might
reasonably be expected to be joyful, his legs seem
to be weighing on his brain, or, more probably, he
is thinking of the unspeakable Turk who hangs
like a cloud over his native Arcadia, and thus the
Moslem casts a dark shadow upon the opera which
we would like to see effaced.
AA. Al* At*
Tv* Tv* Tv* Tv*
There is the Devil to pay at Sydney Royal
Standard, that individual being the centre figure
in “Faust,” and large audiences assemble nightly
to see their old friend. Mr. Dampier’s Mephis-
topheles is a sardonic, dancing fiend, dressed in
lurid crimson, who blows his sheolic nose on a red
handkerchief ; he appears generally to travel in
bad weather, and he heralds his arrival by bang-
ing a gridiron against a stump, which row is
passed off as thunder. He has a hook
nose and a black moustache, and when he grins
that wild, pernicious grin of his, his nose comes
down, to his jaw and his moustache goes up to his
eyes ; he has a laugh like a shriek from the front
end of a half-cremated live hyena ; and he has a
reprehensible way of inviting a sinner to “ come
down with him —down —down —down,” and then
he grabs the victim by the neck and they both
descend into that eternal place whereof there
never was any bottom.
* * *
In the very first act he buys up Faust’s
soul on a short and very hot bill, payable in
blazes, and restores that patriarch’s youth by way
“ value received,” but even at this early period
h is plain that Faust has been bought cheap. To a
Pure and simple-minded person, too, it is shocking
to see how the sulphurous goblin trots after his
Purchase when the latter is going in search of his
best girl, and screeches that he will have the lady
utso, and then he adds, with a terrible whoop, that
they are all going down together—“ down, down,
down”— to a land where even Fahrenheit would
burst, and where a man is only released from his
stove for a second in each 10,000 years that he may
tell his underdone neighbour how darned hot it is
getting. But even Mephistopheles has his weak
Points. When Faust follows Marguerite into a
church the demon remains outside and prophesies
sudden death to a crowd of drunken students, but
b® is seized with abject terror at the sight of a
cr pss, and the sound of a church bell smites him
agony. In the third act Faust s suit with
Marguerite it prospering ; his ill-omened shadow
brakes love the while to a Gamp-like female, who
f'Cts as the lady’s guardian, but when the fat nurse
featherbeds herself against him with her arms
round his neck, and asks if he has never thought
°f settling down with a wife and a home of his
cwu he is forced to fly. Dame Martha even plans
*b elope to perdition, and expects the fiend to hump
her luggage wrapped in a sheet, but the scheme mis-
curries. From this point all is gloom. Marguerite’s
brother is killed; her mother dies poisoned,
Uhd the broken-hearted girl is imprisoned on a
charge of murder. Faust, in despair, drags his
embodied curse with him to the gaol and demands
his assistance to free his sweetheart, but the
weather is bad and the hoarse and coughing devil
is in a disagreeable temper and blows his sardonic
nose gloomily. Ultimately Marguerite is released
but only to die in her lover’s arms; Mephisto-
pheles watches her last agonies with an appalling
grin on his rat-trap jaw and calls on her to come
down with him, but she escapes ; and then he
rushes vengefully at Faust, the earth gapes
asunder, and the pair go down amid a yell of
horror and a rush of flame and smoke. We
noticed with regret, however, that the bottomless
pit was covered only by a cracked board, and we
would urge the management to look after this. It
would be awkward if some of the fiends were to
break out and rush the stalls.
* * *
Mr. Dampier was one of the best devils
we have ever seen ; we would advise him to stick
to this line of business, and start a sheol of his
own in Wolloomooloo. Mr. Baker as Faustus the
philosopher, and Mr. Boothman as Faust the
gallant, were good, the latter especially; Miss
Dampier was only a moderately attractive Mar-
guerite, and in comparison with the splendid
demon who haunted her steps she looked but
second rate. Mr. Leston made Siebel a wildly
comic object fit only to be covered with treacle
and set out to catch flies; Mr. E. Holloway as
Valentine was a walking curse, or rather a walk-
ing object too fond of cursing ; and Miss Julia
Merton gave satisfaction as the nurse. The rest
of the company were mostly drunk as the exi-
gencies of the tragedy required, and gave good
promise of waking with quite a number of heads
on them in the morning.
Al' Alt Al' Al'
TV A* Tv Tv
Sydney Academy is now occupied by tho
Rickards-Leete combination—a versatile crowd
who seem to be more different people rolled into
one than any other people that we ever saw rolled
into anything. In “ Spoons,” for example, Mr.
Harry Rickards is announced as appearing in the
eightfold capacity of Jack Marlingspike, Joe Jug-
gins (a horsey, doggy individual), C. G. Fitzbattle-
axe P. Brown, Podophyllyn Plum, Deep-sinking
Dick, Captain Baker, Apollo Jones (who is said to
be a goat), and Simpson Breezes—though as the last
individual is described as being “ far away,” it
might be supposed that he would appear in that
character best by not appearing at all. The re-
maining seven members of the company divide
15 parts among them, making a good all-round
average of three apiece. Leaning up against the
door-post, enveloped in a hideous blizzard, with a
man in a tall hat blocking the way in front and a
man with a bad cold alongside, we tried to take a
comprehensive view of “ Spoons ” —and failed.
We know no more about it now than when wo
commenced. The incidents tread fast on each
other’s heels, like Genesis chasing Revelations, or
Isaiah Cohen doing an intellectual steeplechase in
pursuit of Charles Dickens; there are a rich
brother and a will, a detective, a very cheap
horse, some hot coffee, and a number of songs
which seem to take well with a mixed audience ;
there is a burglarious visitor who climbs into
somebody’s house—or at least he climbs into the
programme, which is circumstantial evidence of
the fact, and there is a wild, weird mixture of
everything with nothing on top. “ Spoons,” as we
learn, was written expressly for Mr. Harry
Rickards, but if anyone had written a thing like
it for us and requested us to play eight characters,
each worse than the other, and the whole let
combined worse than the worst individual mem-
ber of the gang, we would have had his brains on
a battleaxe. The acting was pretty good through-
out —at least the daily papers say so.
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
As “ JU[?]ET.”
In the new and improved edition of
Shakespeare, which is shortly to come before the
public, it is Romeo, not Macbeth, who murdered
sleep, and at Sydney Opera House he not only
perpetrates this act of slaughter nightly, but he
drags the ensuing corpse nine times round the
stage. There is, however, a marked improvement
on previous performances—he used to drag the
mangled remains 18 times, and even then he
looked as if he hungered for another canter. Miss
Essie Jenyns, at Juliet, is, as before, the life and
soul of the piece ; she is as beautiful and as suc-
cessful a a ever, and half the male audience are
longing to throw Romeo into the middle of North
Queensland and take his place under the balcony.
Miss Jenyns is an actress of whom Australia has
good reason to be proud ; she is a native of the
land, having been born in Brisbane—date pot
stated, but it was certainly recent, and is the
daughter of the late Dr. Jenyns, of that city,
and step-daughter to Mr. W. J. Holloway.
Her first appearance was at Hobart, where she
played the page in “ Richelieu ” with Mr. Cres-
wick as the wily, far-reaching Cardinal ; she next
performed in Adelaide along with George Rignold,
who was starring in “ Henry V.,” and since then
she has steadily advanced in popularity. In 1881
she proceeded along with Mr. Holloway to Europe
and studied for a short period in Paree, and on her
return she commenced playing a series of Shakes-
perian characters with great success. During the
present season she will enact the roles of Imogen,
j Beatrice, Rosalind, and Ophelia, and if her ren-
dering of Juliet is to be taken as a criterion she
will become more than ever a popular favourite
in Sydney.
* # # #
The Fisk Jubilee Singers have commenced
a campaign at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Sydney, and
are drawing very good houses. This combination
is rather an old one, and in the time of the original
Jubilee Fisk they were bent on charitable objects
alone; since then, however, they have turned
away after the mammon of unrighteousness, and
with very encouraging results. Their repertoire
covers everything from the Lord’s Prayer down to
“It’s never too co-ho-o-old to be baptised,” and
by this judicious mixture they come as near to
pleasing everybody as a Jubilee African could well
expect. Pathos and comedy are mingled together
allthiough; “Didn’t the Lord deliver Daniel”
merges suddenly into asoulful wail “andJo-honah
from the interior of the Wlia-a-ale,” and that
whale fetches the audience every time.
# # # #
At a recent amateur dramatic performance
in aid of tho building fund of a N.S.W. country
church, an incident happened which has caused
much scandal in a quiet community. The piece
was of the “ East Lynne ” style, one of the local
aldermen taking the part of the gay deceiver,
while the only daughter of the baker assumed tho
role of the frail and ultimately dishonored and
deserted wife. The first two acts went very well,
the drop-scene at the conclusion of each falling
amidst thunders of applause. The scene had been
down for hardly two minutes the second time
when it went up again with a run, and a sight
which made some of the leading residents turn
crimson with shame met the gaze of the audience.
In the middle of the stage was a table covered
with bottles and glasses, and seated round were
the various artistes, male and female, discussing
long beers and sandwiches. The startled per-
formers were greeted with along, unearthly howl,
and tore off the stage in anything but a dignified
manner. The prompter, who was an absent-
minded man, was the oause of the trouble ; he
thought when he saw the assemblage gormandis-
ing that the 3rd act was to open with a land-salo
picnic and accordingly ran the curtain up. The
upshot of the whole affair was that the church
refused to accept the proceeds of the performance,
the parson preached a sermon on the “ Immorality
of the Stage,” the baker’s daughter was tabooed
out of “society,” the alderman had to resign his
seat in the Council, and the prompter got 24 hours’
notice to leave the town.
# * # #
The Lynch Family are still pounding along
in the suburbs of Sydney, and doing good busi-
ness. Within the last week or so they have coma
down like the wolf on the fold in Paddington,
Randwick, Marrickville, Botany, and St. Peters,
and they intend raiding Manly, and carrying strife
into Redfern and the Glebe during the next few
days.
# # # #
The new Polytechnic in George-street,
Sydney, has lately been opened by that old wielder
of the birch and quill, Mr- Alfred Cane, who for
so jmany years performed the frightful task of
answering all the questions asked by readers of
the Down and Gumtree Jernel ; he also edited
the “ Children’s Column.” No man could be better
fitted for the task he has undertaken than Mr
Cane, to whom we wish every success. We hope
he hasn't left the D. & G. on account of any absurd
idea that the “Peeress’”letters make our little con-
temporary too breezy for a domestic circulation.
Tv* Tv* Tv*
Since the Japanese Village was built in
Melbourne, all sorts of sensations have disturbed
the calm current of its rural life. The young lady
who was fired into the loving grasp of her sweet-
heart out of an 81-ton gun is replaced by a young
gentleman who may be graphically described as a
regular cough-drop. Mr. Ala,- the sensation in
question, is shot up 20 yards into the air, catches
hold of a trapeze, and dives headforemost into a
net 20 yards below. A clever twist at the last
moment enables Mr. Ala to drop comfortably on
his back instead of breaking his neck. The
“ serial flight” is of the kind which immortalised
Lulu some 17 or 18 years ago, and is accomplished
we believe, by the aid of the very same machine
with which that spurious fair ‘one fraudulently
vaulted into many masculine affections. There is
no deception, gentlemen, about this performance,
and it is, in point of blood-curdling merit, superior
to anything done by the much-talked-of George
Conquest The exciting possibility of something
going wrong is attracting good business to the
Village. It isn’t that the public want an accident,
doncherknow, but they take a pleasure in satisfy,
ing themselves that one hasn’t occurred. As for
the Japs., they have never enjoyed village life so
much before. All work is suspended while the
acrobat wings his flight, and when he lands on
his perch the almond-eyed gazers murmur “ Ala
be praised ! ” By the way, Ala is remarkably
English-looking, considering his name, and wears
an expression of surprise, for which his astound-
ing occupation is probably accountable. That he
may die a natural death at an honoured old age is
our earnest prayer.
X Ji.
Tv Tv Tv Tv
In a test case, tried last week, a jury
found that the Melbourne Opera House Company
was responsible for the wages of a chorister,
engaged during the unfortunate Lottie Montal
(Madame Poussard) season. There are a heap of
other claims against the company.
A/, AL, AA. AZ,
Tv Tv Tv TV
The Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, went
off with a tremendous bang on Friday last. From
a sassiety point of view the opening performance
was an undoubted success. Inside were assem-
bled rank, fashion, and a glittering crowd of dead-
heads —outside gathered an admiring multitude of
the great unwashed. By 8 o’clock the excitement
was tremendous. An approving murmur from
the mob in the street announced the arrival of
George Rignold and Miss Kate Bishop. A mighty
yell greeted His Excellency the Governor and
party. Anon another murmur, followed by a
popular demonstration from the pit, told us that
the Broughs and Boucicaults were taking their
seats in the orchestra stalls. Then somebody
spotted The Bulletin representative, and a cold
shudder went right through the house. The next
quarter of an hour flitted pleasantly away in up-
roars and speeches. Mr. Jules Joubert came before
the gorgeous plush curtain and orated something
about ladies getting home rule, and the sun never
setting on the British Empire. The tear was still
standing in our eye .when Mr. Joubert led to the
footlights Miss Julia Sydney, the manageress.
Mies Sydney proved to be a handsome
lady, handsomely attired, whose neat little
speech was marred by evident nervousness, and
the unmistakable restlessness of the hack seats.
This disaffection was caused by people standing in
the centre gangways. One London “copper”
would have put the matter right in about a
minute. A small detachment of Victorian police
miserably failed to grapple with the difficulty, and
it speaks well for the temper of a colonial audience
that the show was allowed to proceed. Possibly
the pittites who couldn’t see were consoled by the
knowledge that they weren’t missing much.
Truth to tell, “ Bad Lads ” was not a very dainty
dish to set before such a right royal audience.
When Mr. Walter Craven wrote down “ Bad
Lads ” as “ a new and original farcical comedy ”
we hope he blushed. The characters and plot
have been filched from “ Forbidden Fruit ” and
“ The Magistrate,” robbed of their humour, and
subjected to all sorts of indignities. The strongest
of companies would fail to get much fun out of
such a farrago of tomfoolery as “ Bad Lads,” and
the Alexandra Company is inclined to ho
not strong—a little delicate, in fact—in
its constitution. A Miss Eliza Clairborne
as a confiding young wife looked suitably simplo
and pretty. Mr. Robert Inman kept himself at
ease under very trying circumsfances; and Mr.
George Leopold obtained a few laughs at the ex-
pense of many grimaces. Of the others it is suffi-
cient to say that Miss Zaidee de Rot he (billed as
from the Avenue and Royalty Theatres, London)
gives us an impression that she must have filled
one line parts in tho great metropolis. “ Bad
Lads ” played for a full three hours on the open-
ing night—just one hour too long. Cutting down
might do a little for the piece, but not much. It
requires to be born again. The title is a misno-
mer. Mr. Craven’s comedy should be re-chris-
tened “ Bad Egg ’’ and chucked away as soon as
possible. The management has a nice new house,
distinguished by many novel and pleasing features.
But it is not a luxuriously-appointed house, and
will look uncommonly bare if the programme isn’t
speedily changed.
X X Jt X
Tv* "TV' TV' Tv*
A few weeks back we expressed a doutr
whether Miss Violet Cameron would fulfil her
American engagements. Evidently she will, for
the New York Mirror says : “ Lord Lonsdale
comes over to pilot as well as pay for the Cameron
folks, and Lord Londesborough is expressing much
anxiety lest the similarity of their names get him
mixed with the management.” There is some-
thing peculiarly rich about Londesborough’s
anxiety. He has devoted the whole of his
life to “ running ” pretty actresses in the same
way and on the same terms as the other fellow.
Some of the little gems which Londesborough
selected in the rough were polished, at vast ex-
pense, into clever performers. Emily Fowler and
Florence Gerard took very fair rank in the pro-
fession after “ breaking off” with the nobleman
who brought them out.
#Atr At?
TV' TV* Tv*
According to general accounts, the Prince
of Wales’ latest “mash” is the beautiful Miss
Kingdon, now playing at the Strand Theatre,
London. The future Defender of the Faith was
introduced to her one day, and the next day he
‘ ‘ sent her some flowers and invited her to supper.
She accepted the flowers, but declined the invita-
tion, much to his Royal Highness’ disappoint-
ment.” Miss Kingdon telegraphed an account < f
her meeting with the Prince and its results to her
youthful betrothed, George Gould (son of Jay
Gould, the millionaire), who “immediately de-
cided that his presence in London was needed.”
A*. AA. AA. AL.
TV TV' TV TV'
Some jumbled up items : —Basso Profundo
Eduardo Farley has just got married in Sydney to
“the daughter of a Newcastle hostelry, in which
place,” says theE. News, “the happy pair will spend
their honeymoon.” Than which nothing more hea-
venly can be conceived The Williamsons, Peter
Hughes writes us, continue to wave at Adelaide
where they are having a wonderful reception after
a five years’ absence......“ Sister Mary” Lingard
is in full bloom at the London Comedy Dionß.
is wroth with the London Pink ’Un for “ having
accused him of ignorance and blunder in repre-
senting a woman (in “ The Jilt”) riding and win-
ning a steeplechase.” Dion quotes a hundred-
year-old case, in which such an incident actually
did occur but the scoffing scribe dismisses the
affair with a jibe—
“ Ladies may ride,
So the Jockey Club decide,
A lady Archer there may be some day ;
But when up her number goes
Master s backing book will close,
’Cause he ain’t Jilt that way.”
Mr. G. Leitch writes from Dunedin that he
has every reason to expect a splendid season in N.Z.,
and that he just inspected the New Welling-
ton jfheatre which he is to open in November
A portrait of Genevieve Ward (to be hung in the
Women’s Hospital, Melbourne, for which Miss
Ward raised,£.sooo at one performance) has just
been finished by Mr. Sydney Hodges, of London...
A Piedmontese actor revenged himself upon a
hissing audience by walking up to the footlights
and blowing his brain srout. If some, of our “pr or
players ” will take the hint we’ll give them the
geose right enough Mr. Geofge Coppin, who is
to act as a kind of papa to Minnie Palmer during
her Australian tour, says that her line is “ some-
thing similar to Jennie Lee and Maggie Moore.”
More Maggie and Zee-ss Jennie, we hope
Some one asked Sara Bernhardt what was h r
favourite animal. The answer was “ man.”
Henry Ward Beecher, who is lecturing in Eng-
land, has turned out a complete “ frost.” His
agent tried to interest the public by restuffing the
Tilden case. It was no use, Dkke was too many.
Since Sara Bernhardt’s recent scrimmage at
Rio Janeiro with Mile. Noirmont the Paris
journals speak of her as a female Jacques Sullivan.
Gerald Massey has been lecturing in London
on “ The Coming Religion,” under the patronage
of Tennyson Al. Hay man, once of Australia,
is running the Bush-street Theatre, ’Frisco.
“ Mr. Holloway ivas a handsome and gal-
lant Romeo. His voice is admirably suited to the
exquisite deliverances, and his manner is graceful.
It would be difficult to find in the colonies so ex-
cellent a Romeo as Mr. Holloway’s.” —Sydney
D.T. We have a very bad cough, which only
permits us to say just now that this will surely
prove even too much marmalade for William him-
self Burlesque Actress : “Yes, doctor, the dog
bit me just below the knee.” Doctor : “ Yes, it is
a painful wound, but not dangerous, I assure
you.” Burlesque Actress : “ But will the scar be.
noticed ?” Doctor : ‘ ‘ That will depend entirely
on you, madam.”
The printing business is looking up in
Sydney. It is reported that an individual born of
poor but honest parents has got the forfeiture of
3000 acres of land reversed by tearing out the leaf
of a register in the Crown Lands Oftioe, and intro-
ducing another similarly printed in its stead ; a
little forgery was then perpetrated to make tho
thing complete, and thus a nice little swindle was
fixed up. We next expect to hear that someono
has been fooling with the records of the' Criminal
Courts, and reducing all Docker’s ten-year sen
tences to three mouths.


Pepper And Salt
r . The swiftest solution of the Chinese trouble
has been found in the American town of Reno,
where a female cook, having shot a Chinaman
who “ sassed ” her, was tried and acquitted, and
subsequently presented by her admiring friends
With a silver cup. Quite a rush on this style of
trophy has since set in, and the little yellow men
over there are beginning to entertain grave doubts
if they’ll ever see their childhood’s happy homes
again. Given a woman-cook, a flat-iron, a China-
man, and a silver cup in prospective, and a wave
of temporary insanity will at once commence to
wave. When it has passed away, a smiling
woman, a damaged flat-iron, and a Celestial corpse
will be discovered. Our cabbage-hawkers, grow-
ing alarmed, will tramp round clad in suits of
nail-keg armour after the stylo patented by the
1 imented Mr. Edward Kelly. Our back-yards
will then be livened up by the spectacle of an
alien dressed in a sheet-iron shirt and boiler-plate
breeches expatiating on the merits of his “ wellec
goo’ caidiflow’,” while a hungry dog andan enraged
female, the latter armed with a rolling-pin and a
stove-raker, skirmish round in search of a vulner-
able spot to attack. In course of time, the miser-
able Mongolian hawker will grow tired bulging
out the dentsinhis clothes, and will make way for a
white worker to take his place. The kitchen
Amazon will then point to her row of silver cups
as proudly as an athlete to his trophies, while the
O’Soolivan climbs up on the “ statchu ” steps and
declares the white man’s millennium is just about
to boom. The Chinese must go, and Bridget’s the
ger-ril to start them on their journey.
* *
“ Princo Albert Victor will be unable to
visit Adelaide during the centennial or the Jubilee
Exhibition, in consequence of the desire of the
Queen to have the whole of the royal family pre-
sent in England at the celebration of the jubilee
of her reign.”—Cablegram. This is rough on the
Mayor of the God-fearing city. After the circu-
lars he has issued, the telegrams he has sent, the
prospective speeches he has prepared—to be
crushed again ! Battenberg will come for the
asking, no doubt, but what can he do for ’em ?
Nothing. Bring hither the harp, and let us
endeavour to soothe the civic breast.
Strife has started again in Samoa. When-
ever the warships left after fixing up the last
treaty, a long-drawn-out chief, with a smile like a
holy hymn, wentoutandcluhbeda native “chump”
who had been making himself offensively con-
spicuous in the negotiations. Then half-a-dozen
prize murderers, who had nearly broken their
backs in lifting along the rate of mortality, came,
Out of their hiding-places and claimed the Samoan
crown, and a swindler with a boil on his nose tried
some solemn bosh under the name of amending
the Constitution. The King, who was supposed
to have been firmly .re-established, has now been
reduced to sleep in the coal-hole, for every other
night some savage crawls in at his bedroom
Window and pounds on his bed* with a log under
the impression that a monarch is sleeping between
the straw and the rag-bag, and when he goes out
hd has to disguise himself as a horse or a drain-
pipe or something to save himself from being
brained. This sort of unholy Polynesian spree is
termed the spread of civilisation in the Pacific.
* * *
More obituary gush from the Age :
“ Dearest Mollie, you have left us,
And your dear voice we’ll hear no more :
You have left a sorrossving mother,
Five brothers, and a sister dear
For the bright and shining shore.”
Pooh ! that’s nothing. Our turn now
When we quit this world of thirst
For the shore that’s ever shining,
We’ll leave five wives, some mothers-in-law, a
numerous growing family, twelve brothers,
and sundry distant relations,
All dejected and repining.
But we’ll come back and slay the lot if they put
their woe into poetry and mourn after us through
the medium of the Press.
* * *
William Stedman, of Sydney, has had a
narrow escape from enrolment in the noble army
of martyrs. He is possessed of a short temper
and a father-in-law, and the other day he received
a telegram regarding the latter which made the
former boil over. The message stated that the
relative in question had kicked his ancient bucket,
and called on William to come and bury him—
a prospective expense which seems to have made
him feel nasty, but he felt still worse when he
found the alleged corpse-in-law smoking his pipe,
and seemingly good for another 20 years of exis-
tence. Then he told the mouldering object that
he had come to bury him, and that he meant to
do it before he went away, and finally growing
frantic he seems to have asked the smoking de-
ceased why the blazes he was alive, and why he
hadn’t been born dead in the first place, and thus
saved all the bother. Upon this the remains of
the old man began to grow vicious, and he said
that he wasn’t going to become a damp unplea-
sant body merely to satisfy his son-in-law’s insane
thirst for corpses, and finally the agile dead rushed
away to get a summons against the man who was
so intensely anxious to inter his bones. The
magistrate, however, dismissed the case, but the
signs are that when the old man really passes
away he will require to bury himself, for his son-
in-law is hardly likely to make the attempt again.
* * *
After a surfeit of obituary verse dealing;
with angels and Heaven and harps; and similar
mysteries, it is a real pleasure to light Updn some-
thing practical in the Age. The relatives Of a
bold mariner lie was drowned 28 years ago-
finish off his In Mcmoriam notice with some lines
which ought to bo reassuring to naval men—
“ As for death, ’tis but a joke ;
Sailors live in fire and smoke
At least so says the Old Commodore.”
They don’t presume to think that the old salt is
careering through space on wings of gossamer;
there isn’t a word about meeting him in the bright
realms above, or crossing the shining river, or
following him home. They simply take comfort
from the words of the Old Commodore—“ Sailors
live in fire and smoke.” Perhaps it may not be
out of place for us to suggest a more elaborate
notice for next year. For instance :
Down in the pit lives poor Tom Bowling,
No more he’ll plough the sea-e ;
Although the other chap 3 are howling,
lie doesn't care one D. ;
Some men give way to mel-hell-an-clioly,
And weep as they perspire—•'
But Tom he still keeps blithe and jolly,
He’s used to smoke and fi-i-re,
He’s used to smoke and lire.
“ Not lost, but gone below.”
* * *
If this paragraph should meet the eye of
any intelligent South Australian he is requested
to cut it out and gum it in his hat. In a novel
THE APOTHEOSIS OF BEACH.
recently published by a leading Arm in London the
hero receives a letter from Adelaide, which, it
appears, is a “ back settlement” in Australia, and
afterwards takes a journey to the spot. It is about
2000 miles inland, and on arriving at the wretched
hamlet in question he finds his correspondent liv-
ing alone in a wretched bark hut, starving and
friendless. This ignorant trash probably fetches
about two guineas a page, and passes for know-
ledge. The London paper, however, doesn't know
enough to correct the mistake. The Daily
Chronicle, for instance, speaks about “ Neil
Matterson, of Sydney, South Australia.”
* * *
A good young- man in Adelaide had a
weakness for playing Nap., and found himself an
honorary member of the society of brokers. Being
wise in his own generation, however, he slipped
into the shop where he is employed, and “lifting ”
three of his fellow-workmen’s coat 3, went out and
pawned them for £2. Then he hunted up a man
who sells watches on instalments, made a deposit
for £6, redeemed and put the coats back on their
pegs, and had £i left with which to go the Nap.
game once more. We’ll be dreadfully disappointed
if that young man doesn’t bloom into a Colonial
Treasurer.
* * *
At Maryborough (Vic.) the flat-headed
Chinaman seems to flourish more than in any
other part of Australia. The Maryborough Mon-
gol is more hideously mis-shapen even than the
average ; he is yellower, too, and more angular,
and has more dirt on each of his angles, and is
altogether more like a rickety jaundice than he is
elsewhere, and he runs the whole show on his own
scrofulous hook. He returns the town councillors
and the local member; he is treated with con-
sideration by everybody ; and every second man
you meet is a Chinaman, and you can’t tell what
the other man is till he is washed. short time
ago a fool of a policeman actually arrested a few
of these individuals for running a fan-tan shop—
he was a new chum and wanted to investigate a
gambling animal that wore its tail on its head —
and instantly the gamboge-coloured crowd rose up
as one leper and demanded their release. If it
were not granted they swore they would take no
part in the Boxing Day demonstration, and, as
they had undertaken to “procesh” clad in their
native indecency, and were reckoned the best part
of the show, the inhabitants were struck with
terror, and the prosecution collapsed. A fevV
ChiUese witnesses rolled up and swore that they
Aere dniy playing “grab” and “old maid;”
everybody knew, of course, that they were lying,
but the c£lse Aas dismissed amid much sympal hy,
and now the arresting constable wishes he Were
dead or were running a fan-tan table of his own.
* * *
The Spectator; tile comic organ of
holiness in Victoria; thinks that; in view of the
depressed state of religious fedlirig in the colony,
pastors and spiritual masters siidUld gb on a house
to house enq uiry to ascertain why the great majority
do not attend public worship and Bibie-cldss;dndto
impress Upon the wanderers in the mire and (‘lay
the enormous advantages accruing front a regular
participation in prayer meetings. In short, the
parsons should go canvassing for a
The idea is a brilliant one, and if the clerics possess
the perseverance of an ordinary book-agent, or
sewingunachine hawker, great and lasting good
may result. Quite a number of them may be
killed.
* * *
The Salvation Army threatens to go finan-
cially “bung.” General Booth says the position
is “really a serious one,” and he now seeks to
form a “ Self-denying League” to put things
square. ' The members of the league are to walk
instead of ride, to patch their old pants in place
of buying new ones, to put all the portable vani-
ties of this world up the heathen spout, to carry
broken-backed umbrellas, and wear broken-headed
hats ; in short, they are to mortify the flesh in
every way—their own flesh, not the General’s—
and send in the money thus obtained to the head-
I quarters of the great drum-pounding atrocity. Of
| such is the Kingdom, etcetera.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—The Australian
public has always a good word for the liberal man.
It gave a little pitV to Von Bieren, the fraudulent
insolvent, as he stood in the dock the other day,
because it knew that he had not all through his
I colonial career been utterly selfish. It did not quite
harden its heart against absconder Holt as it might
have done, because it was aware that when he
was affluent he had done many and many a
generous action ; and even when Adolphe Bechet,
the convicted arsonist, was led disgraced from the
dock, there were good and honest and influential
men who, because they knew that the unhappy
prisoner’s life had not been one of self-seeking
only, were not ashamed to hold out their hands to
him ere he was taken to the felon’s cell, and wish
him all the luck that could befall a man whose
folly had doomed him to herd with criminals for
seven long and awful years. But the liberal men
of the community are not those who most loudly
advertise their own generosity. There is one
tolerably vulgar man who gives huge semi-
public entertainments, which are designed
to bo magnificent and are attended by scores
who only go to stoke themselves with his
liquor and his viands. He thinks he has contrived
to build up for himself a reputation for open-
hearted generosity and lavishness, whereas there
are hundreds in this community who now know
that while his champagne was flowing down the
throats of the mob whose applause he thought to
buy, his bailiff was selling up the furniture of an
old penniless widow tenant of his, who had got
back in her rent. The wine of such a man is bitter
to the mouth. —Yours truly, Christian Socialist.
THE LAST CHANOE.
Poor Mr. Mayor,
Your blank despair
We must not mock -with laughter,
’Tis safe to bet
You'll never get
That title you are after.
Though, all the same,
You played your game
Which well was worth the candle ;
But Bert, and Vic.
Have trumped your trick—
You’ll die without Ihe “ handle.”
You might have Bat. —
But what is that
Compared with Vic. or Bertie t
His royal blood
Is not so good
(Besides, they say it’s dirty.)
Well, never mind,
You’ll often And
’Twixt cup and lip there’ll be slip ;
Nay, never fret,
For even yet •
There’s still a C.M.G.-ship.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Eight Rev. T. J. Carr, a particular
fiiend of Cardinal Moran’s, has been appointed
R.O. Archbishop of Melbourne. Triumphal Carr !
Cooktown objects to Mayor Young beino'
knighted in jubilee year unless the Mayor of
Cooktown (whoever he then may he) is also simi-
larly honoured.”
Redvers Buller, who has gone to Ireland
to harry the Moonlighters, is a Devonshire knight
with £ls*ooo a year, and is a member of Wolse-
ley’s “ Mutual Admiration Gang.”
Captain Thomas, commandant of the Vic-
torian naval forces, returns to England next
March. The gallant captain leased himself for
three years, and wouldn’t renew on any terms.
The trustees of the Victorian Art Gallery
have been “ had ” with a spurious Ary Scheffer—
The Temptation of Christ. ’ The picture is worth
about 15s. to hang up in a Sunday-school class-
room.
“The Right Hon. W. B. Dailey, Premier
of New South Wales, the ‘ man who sent the Con-
tingent to the Soudan/ is probably coming over
to London on a flying visit !” says the Court and
Society Review.
The English papers make iiierry over Lord
St. Leonards, and indulge in heaps of sarcasm
about the high prices given at Melbourne for his
lordship s dirty shirts when he was sold up bv the
Melbourne bailiff.
“ The fact is,” bluntly says an English
paper, “that Her Gracious Majesty is anticipat-
ing with some eagerness the pleasure of re-enact-
ing her favourite role of monthly nurse sometime
before Christmas.”
Mr. W. Wilson and Mr. A. Horton, of
the N.Z. Herald, are at present on a visit to
Sydney. By the way, more than one Auckland
newspaper proprietor has long cast longing eyes
at the rich pastures of Sydney.
Ernest Logan, sentenced last week in
Sidney to two years’ gaol for an act of fraud com
mitted at Bathurst, made an adroit extenUa*
tory speech which seemed to completely
‘fetch’ the Judge. His Honor however, had
the disadvantage of not having known Mr. Logan
in Fiji.
Prince Beatrice (Battenberg, we mean)
was recently dined by the Corinthians, a swell
Portsmouth club, and when in the Hall of the club
hadn’t any more sense than to hand his hat and
coat to one of the.smarto3t and best-set-up mem-
bers thereof. Fancy Ouida’s ideal being taken for
a lackey 1
“ What a ridiculous thing it is,” (says the
Imperial Review), for a gentleman to have
three surnames in the course of his life ; Cecil,
Cranbournc, Salisbury—such are the titles Under
which we have to trace our Lord Salisbury through
Hansard, as if he wore a woman and double-
barrelled widow.”
People are beginning to say that the
Prince of Wales is unfortunate in his eldest son,
and that he is disappointed in him. Prince Albert
Victor at 23 remains a stupid failure, and his
Royal grandmother knows it if his parents don’t.
Of the Marlborough House “set ” he is the laugh-
ing-stock, says an English paper.
Patchett-Martin, once of Melbourne, is
about to bring out in London a new paper, the
Journalist. “ Journalists,” he says in the pros-
pectus, “ are the only important class who possess
nojournal of their own.” Patchett overlooks the
fact that they already possess all the journals. Let
us hope they will consent to possess the Journal-
ist.
Lord Brassey, of Bulkeley, whose father
made a huge fortune and a title out of railway
contracts, has just discovered, and has loudly pro-
claimed, that he is a lineal descendant of one Do
Bressey, who came over with the Conqueror.
Apropos, a London paper cruelly remarks that
‘ William the Conqueror had in his train some of
the biggest blackguards ever turned out.”
The Very Rev. John Kenny, of North
Shore, Sydney, was somewhat of a historian in
his life time, and did good service in various ways.
Being a Scotchman he could not resist the tempta-
tion to lay up a little treasure on earth but his
pile was only a small one (£5000) and it has almost
all been bequeathed to such institutions as he
considered eminently charitable and religious.
Theodore Horton, ex-Crown Lands Agent
at Young, has pleaded guilty to a charge of
embezzling Governmentmoney, andmay, therefore,
rank as the second N. S.W. saint who has bursted
his tight-laced morals within a week. It is even
alleged that in his capacity of churchwarden ho
embezzled the offertory to the extent of £lO, and
thus robbed heav en and earth wdth equal impar*
tiality.
It is alleged that at Portsmouth the other
day an old Admiral took L. L. Smith aside, and
pointing to the Beautiful Burdett, hiccuped in the
Melbourne practitioner’s ear: “ Beastly shame to
bring an advertising apothecary like that fellow
Smith to meet gallant gentlemen who have braved
the battle and the breeze —hie ! ” Then the genial
but somewhat fuddled old warrior drew from his
pocket one of those world-renowned advertise-
ments.
The yearly insult to the Anglican Bishop
of Melbourne—who is an official sworn to eternal
poverty—has been increased to £2OOO. The ap-
pomtmentgoesto a Bloomsbury (London) reverend,
one Field Flowera Gee, or rather he goes to it.
Field Flowers Goe has just now in England only
£6OO a year and a house, so that by taking a billet
of £2OOO a year and a palace ”he sacrifices him-
self en the altar of conscience to the tune of £l4OO
a year ker-slap!
To the unspeakable disgust and consterna-
tion of all Melbourne mashers, the notorious Mrs
Taylor has been found guilty of manslaughter. It
is hardly necessary to mention that certain points
have been reserved and that Mrs. T. is still out on
bail. If the worthy lady should ultimately bo
convicted, we shall hear of a subscription-list
being opened and an address presented to her,
Melbourne sassiety (masculine) must keep ongoed
terms with its Taylor at any cost.
There is much excitement in Melbourne
legal circles. Counsel, judges, and even miser-
able witnesses are rebelling against the impudent
authority of the unpleasant Mr. Purves, Q.C.
Justice Holroyd started the insurrection by telling
the great P. that he (the judge) wasn’t afraid of
him. Ihis spirit of disaffection rapidly spread
tin ough the court, and now, when Purves com-
mences to cross-examine, the witness's counsel
wu-ites a re-assuring little nolc, " Don’t be afraid
of him ; the Judge isn’t.”


Here is a queer story, true as gospel. A
tnin sculptor was a few years ago commissioned
cer ‘ 1„ ft figure of the late Archbishop Vaughan,
f svdnev The Archbishop had a magnificent
i ml and face, as everyone knows, hut, in sporting
t vase he was (perhaps everyone doesn’t know
P'V, ..' a little hit dicky on his pins.” The artist
t once perceived the distressing fact, and being
man of infinite resource he waited on Larry
t , „ the pugilist, and got him to stand as model
for the figure of the brilliant and now lamented
dignitary.
According to Mr. Garland, M.L.A., Bank-
dofaulter Holt is having a “real good time” in
Parramatta Gaol, where he is as “ jolly as a sand-
l)V ” The facts are, however, that Holt is in a
si at e of hopeless misery, and has lost nearly four
stone in weight since he entered prison, and that
t here are impressed on his shrunken and quivering
face the evidences of such agony and remorse as
come to few men in this world. He is undergoing
every disability of “separate treatment ” except
solitary confinement, and it is simply with the
object of saving his life or reason that he is
exempted from even that.
Larry Foley is now teaching theN. S. W. Go-
vernment House crowd le boxe. Sometimes Lord
Bertie comes a little bit late for his lesson, and
sends up tb say “he has arrived.” “Tell Lord
Bertie to wait till I’ve done my breakfast,” says
the magnificent King Foley to his under-butler as
the latter hands up on a gold tray set with colossal
brilliants the nobleman’s pasteboard. By and bye
the gorgeous Larry unbinds and leisurely proceeds
downstairs. “Ah ! good-day, my Lord Bertie,”
he superciliously remarks: “I'll see about you
when I’ve had an hour’s walk. The exigencies of
digestion demand one’s fust attention, doncher-
know.”
Mayor Young’s invitation to the “ Austra-
lian Jubilee Municipal Meeting,” at Sydney, did
not excite much interest in Perth (W.A.) The
councillors merely read his letter, instructed the
Town Clerk to acknowledge same, and passed on
to gas, without even expressing their pleasure
at Jubilee Y.’s condescension. Most of them are
M.L.C.’s, and they look down on an ordinary one-
horse mayor with supreme contempt, and estimate
him about as highly as a Salvation captain. They
might, perhaps, come on the invitation of a
governor, but even then they would require a
guard of honour, and a gorgeous fossil to walk in
front with a drum, and clear the way,
Apropos of the Moran-Vaughan burial
imbroglio, we read that “ all that the wealthiest
Roman Catholics do for sons and daughters who
‘go into religion ’ is to provide them with a very
moderate annuity—seldom more than £5O or £lOO
a year—the principal of which returns to the
family on the death of the annuitant. When the
heir to an estate becomes a priest or a monk, he
usually waives his claims in favour of his next-of-
kin, taking only enough for his actual support.
Of the eight sons of the late Colonel Vaughan, of
Courtfield, Herefordshire, six entered the R.C.
Church. But Courtfield did not pass into the
hands of the Bishop of Salford, who was the
eldest son, nor into those of the late Archbishop of
Sydney, or of Father Kenelm Vaughan, or of the
redoubtable Prior of Fort Augustus, but tb Major
Vaughan, the fifth son.”
It seems that Violet Cameron, heroine of
the recent Lonsdale scandal, made one of those
marriages for which fascinating opera bouffeists
are famous. Violet was taken in. She thought
she had a real catch in Monsieur David de Ben-
saude, but as a matter of fact, David has never
contributed anything towards the housekeeping
expenses since the day when they were made one.
As a lover he hired private boxes and flung
bouquets to her, so Violet —little noodle—took
him on trust as a millionaire Frenchman without
a single misgiving. Others, like her, do the same.
They are so “tricky,” so cute, so versed in the
world’s ways (stage world), and above all, can
reckon men up so well, that they refuse fifty good
offers and waltz off with some transparent fraud,
whose only possessions are his debts. And when
they find how dear their folly has cost, they take
it out in giddiness.
Now-a-clays you sec Henniker Heaton s
name in every London paper, from the Times down
to Town Talk. The very latest abouthim comes by
wire : he has offered to construct another Anglo-
Australian cable in consideration of a Government
subsidy of £360,000. The London Echo (which
brought about the reduction of inland newspaper
postage to a halfpenny) says : —“We wish Mr.
Heaton every success in his endeavours to obtain a
universal international penny postage. In procuring
an offer from a great Australian steamship company
to take letters direct by sea to Australia for one
penny each, he has given such a wound to six-
penny postage between Great Britain and Aus-
tralia as it cannot recover. From henceforward
all persons having correspondence with Austra-
lasia will know that sd. out of each 6d. postage
they are obliged to pay is due to the action of the
Host Office, who have placed themselves in such a
position that they are obliged to pay to the pre-
sent contractors 500 per cent, more than they
could get the mails carried for at somewhat less
speed by a powerful steamship company. As a few
flays’ difference in the length of time taken by a
letter to or from Australia is of little importance to
most persons, especially the poorer classes of emi-
grants and others, it would be an immense boon
to them if Mr. Heaton’s suggestion could be car-
ried out. At present- 6d., in thousands of cases,
is almost a prohibitive rate.” So that, you see,
Henniker is not merely on the road to fame. He
has already got there.
“ The Last Bullet,” a poem by Mr. John
Farrell, will appear in the next issue of Ihe
Bulletin.
Apropos of the drink-bill of Australia, here
hrb some remarks —-from the Sydney War Cry
hy a “ saved publican ” —almost the first Salva-
tionist we have met whose intellect did not seem
to be made out of the shattered remnants of an old
hair trunk“ If ever I sold whisky I would
Want to go to a town where the mayor was a
Presbyterian elder, and the councilmen were
Methodist stewards, and all the boards were
Baptist deacons. I would have my lie ense signed
hp, and when I died I would have it put in my
coffin with me, and when the trumpet should
Wake me from the dead, the first thing I would
think about would be my license ; and when God
Summoned me before the great white throne and
Showed me the devastation I had made among
the children of men, I would pull out my license
and say : ‘ Lord, I didn’t know it was any harm ;
here is my license, signed by Presbyterian elder 3,
Methodist stewards, and Baptist deacons,’ and
God Almighty would put the whole shebang in
hell together,
POLITICAL
POINTS
How can the N.S.W. Assembly be a den
of thieves? “ There is honour amono thieves.''
In the Salisbury Administration, peers
and peers’ sons receive an annual sum of £llO,OOO.
In West Australia the Press must write
and humbly ask leave to be present at a deputa-
tion to any high official.
Mr. Wisdom, M.L.A., says the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly is regarded as a “den of
thieves.” There is Wisdom among thieves.
In the N.S.W. back-blocks, white men are
being turned out of billets and their places filled
by Chinamen. For this there is only one remedy
—the boycott.
“ A Civil Servant without Political In-
fluence” writes to a Sydney daily. Why doesn’t
he sign himself “ A Gone Coon ? ” It would mean
the same thing and be ever so much shorter.
It has been remarked that, “ while Re-
publican Melbourne allowed Queen Victoria’s
| Jubilee to pass by in sulky silence, without the
faintest notice, Royalist Sydney had a grand ban-
quet where Mr. Bailey obtained his Privy Coun-
cillorship.”
A HIBERNIAN VOLCANO.
“Mr. Dan. O’Connor, M.L.A., is again in a state of verbal eruption.’ — Sydney Daily.
Thus a leading London writer:— Re-
ligiously, we are cankered with hypocrisy ; com-
mercially and politically we are rotten with fraud,
and socially we are reeking with vice. How
thankful the people of N.S.W. must be that noth-
ing of the kind can be said of their happy land .
In Ecuador, South America, there is a
church for every 150 inhabitants. Ten per cent, o
the population consists of priests, monks, and nuns,
272 days in each year are sacred holidays, a quarter
of the country belongs to the church and i o per
cent, of the population can neither read nor
write.
The Victorian “ army ” is to be raised
to 10,000 men. The Government are also
talking of putting a whale-boat in commission,
and when they have finished these preparations
they will probably appoint some reckless scare-
crow as field-marshal, and declare war against
France.
The South Australian land revenue for the
years 1885-6 only fell £65,000 below the Treasurer’s
estimate. He must surely he related to the Hon.
G. R. Dibbs. He calculated that £192,000 would
be realised from this source, but the total only
amounted to £127,000. £195,000 is the estimated
return for sales, &c. of the land in 1886-7.
Sir Graham Berry writes to the Victorian
Premier, expressing the belief that France is
“ only waiting an opportunity to withdraw with
dignity from the New Hebrides.” Berry has long
been waiting for an opportunity to “ withdraw
with dignity ” from the Democratic business. He
has now withdrawn with the dignity—a K.G.M.U-
ship.
Mr. Gladstone, in a very recent letter to
Leveson Gower, M.P., in re Home Rule, writes ;
“ j advise you to take resolutely to the studj
of Irish history. I have done in that way the
little that I could, and I am amazed at the dead-
ness of vulgar opinion to the blackguardism and
baseness which have been practised on that un-
fortunate country,”
The Bundaberg Chamber of Commerce,
headed in this matter by Mr. D. F. Johnson, is
effectively agitating for the erection in Queensland
of State Metallurgical Works for the reduction of
auriferous sulphide ores. The question is worthy
of much attention in all newspapers, considering
how largely our progress is dependent upon the
development of mineral resources.
Colonel Hope declares it to be a fact that
to-day “there is not afloat in the British Navy
one single heavy breech-loading gun that the
captain of the ship has not been ordered not to
fii'e.” In other words there is not a breech-loader
in the navy fit for service. The Colonel adds that
the British swords are as unserviceable as the
breech-loaders with which England’s ironclads are
decorated.
Thus speaks Mr. George Coppin, touching
his recent Yurrupean experiences : “ As to Imperial
Federation, when it is talked about, most practical
minds ask what it means, and they find no ex-
planation.” Just so, but the more practical minds
don’t trouble at all about it. “imperial Federa-
tion —What are its aims?" is the title of a new
sixpenny pamphlet. Its aims are—More colonial
billets for British Tories.
The Imperial Parliament had not boen
sitting more than a very few moments
when the Tory cat was let out of the
Tory bag. Ireland is to be governed by
the sword. Sir Redvors Buller has been sent to
coerce it with all the terrorism which military
discipline is capable of inflicting. Happily Judge
Jeffries is dead, or, doubtless, Lord Salisbury’s
Cabinet would send him on another “ Bloody
Ass’/o ” throixghout the south and west of Ireland
instead.
When the members of the N.S.W. jaw
temple get riled they dispense blasphemy as if it
were threepenny beer. Last week Mr. Wisdom
stood up in pig-headed rebellion for almost a
whole night, and called the House “a den of
thieves” with impunity; Mr. Inglis termed At-
sorney-Goneral Want a bull dog, and Mr. Want
threatened to bite; Mr. courteously
offered to bury Mr. Inglis when the hangman had
done with him ; and then there was a general roar,
during which a vote for a few millions we
through almost unobserved.
“Atticus” makes a suggestion in the
Leader which shows him conclusively to be a
brainy individual of comprehensive sweep. He
proposes that as the people of North Queensland
have not yet found a name for their new colony it
should be christened Jubilea. To preserve the
eternal fitness of things it would then require o
be established next year, and with a loyal
Tory Ministry in power the Jubiles, or Jubdeans
or whatever they might be called, would certamlj
get what they ask for, so that they and their ne w
colony might ornament the fiftieth year of ' ic-
toria’s reign.
Here we are (says 'Vanity Fair) at as
critical a period in the history of the country as it
has ever known, and we are practically without
an army on which the country can depend in tfte
event of a struggle with a first-class European
Power. There is hardly an army on the Continent
the men of which are not superior in physique to
our line regiments, once the pride of the country.
The greatest marching feats of the British lme,
says our pessimistic contemporary, are mere child s
nlav to men who know of what the German or
Russian soldier is capable in the way of marching
and weight-carrying.
The “ Voice of the People ” is about to
sneak The N.S.W. Freetrade Association has
been writing round to the country papers of the
colony offering to supply freetrade leaders firsts,
in the hope that journals in which bone and beer
are more Plentiful than money and brains may
nrint their Cobden slush and thus enable them
to nnote their own utterances as the unanimous
outpouring of the national press. This is what
the P “ voice of the people ” has come to at last
to echo the husky, drunken, imbecile, stuttering
voice of a dying faction, and to give utterance to
the folly of men who do not possess one single idcr
which is worth leaving behind them when the”
die.
So the Sydney D.T. has taken another
curve! It now tacitly advocates the abolition o'
the lash, for in a strong two-column contributed
(anddoubtless paid/or) article by “ F.M.,”itallows
that well-knownprofessionalwritertosay; “I know
it would serve no good purpose to flog them (the
Mount Rennie offenders) or to flog anybody ; and
any man who will give a little thoughtful study to
the history of the lash in this colony will share
that most profound conviction.” But when the
lash in abolished and that must come soon—the
Australian people should not forget that Th i:
Bulletin was the one paper which for years and
years stood alono in advocating the abolition of a
aw which was not intonded to operate against
ruffians in Llio garb of gentlemen, and which never
scored the back of any man, good or bad, who did
not wear a workman’s coat.
Advance Ausfcialia ! Wo’vo trounced the
whole world on water, and we are now in a fair
way to secure the champion whisky-belt as well.
Recent grog statistics show that the amount spent
on intoxicating liquors per head of the population
is as follows :—United States of America, £1 13s
3d. ; England, £3 7s. lOd. ; New South Wales,
kl 13s. (id. ; and Victoria, £4 19s. lid. It’s a bit
of a jar on N.S.W. vanity to find the Cabbage
Garden ahead, but still the Cornstalks have the
supreme satisfaction of knowing that, young and
all as Llieir colony is, it spends three times as
much per head for fire-water as the United States,
and nearly one-third more than “ drunken
England.” One million of people spend £4,870,971
a year on grog, and yot teetotal truth-upendcre
have the ehebk to declare that ‘ ‘ the good cause is
gaining ground.” Burial-ground is probably
what they mean.
The way the money goes. In the N.S.W.
Registrar-General’s office there are two Siberian
slaves who act in conjunction with the Registrar-
General as Lands Titles Commissioners. Tlieso
two officials are paid by fees, while the Registrar-
General receives £750 a year, but no "perks”
whatever, as chairman of the Commission. This
year the two lucky dogs expect their little re-
muneration to total fully £BOO each. During tho
past month they sat eight hour 3 for which they
carefully drew £162 10s. between them. If this i 3
a fair sample of their monthly drudgery, it seems
that they draw £BOO each for 90 hours’ work, or 16
days of six hours each—exactly £5O a day. If this
money conies out of the pockets of those who
engage these fortunate commissioners, they have
evidently more money than brains; but if it
comes out of the Government Tieasury, the Minister
who sanctions the job should be shot out of office
without a moment’s warning.
More and still more re-inforcements are
going to Burmah. Already there are about three
soldiers and a field battery keeping guard over
each nigger for fear he should organise himself and
rebel, and if he lights out for freedom the guns
are ready to shell the inside out of him before ho
can take refuge in the nearest beer-saloon, but
this armament is not found sufficient. It has been
enacted by Providence that the white man shall
pervade all creation to tho confusion of every do
scription of coloured trash, that the pagan who
fights shall be mashed up so that his own mother
won’t know him, and that the heathen who runs
away shall have his spine blown out by a long-
range rifleman, and finally, that the Bible shall
ever continue to be the true source of England’s
greatness. In obedience to the dictates of
Providence Burmah will soon be represented by
one surviving native with a w r ooden leg, and a
British general with a wooden head.
More progress ! Hon. Dr. Mackellarwill,on
an early date submit, in the N.S.W. Legislative
Council a resolution affirming that no one shall
be hanged or flogged in pursuance of a judicial
sentence who has not been pronounced of sound
mind by a committee of medical experts. Dr.
Mackellar says he is convinced that under the pre-
sent system insane people are hanged and flogged,
and as the doctor has long been chief medical
officer to the Government he ought to know some-
thing about the matter. Very few people have
even the faintest idea how much insanity exists in
the world or how many people pass as being in
their right minds who are really the victims of
brain-disease. In all Europe there is only one
royal family which is free from the taint of mad-
ness, and only one hereditary sovereign—the
Emperor of Russia—whose sanity is beyond sus-
picion—unless, indeed, we give the infant King of
Spain the benefit of the doubt, and this alono
should furnish a very instructive lesson.
The Imperial Review (Melbourne) says :
—"France will have the New Hebrides, and Ger-
many Samoa—as certainly a 3 Holland. Germany
and France will agree about these things, and the-
opposition in England itself is tvl save Aus-
tralia worries Lords Granville and Rosebery in the
persons of Graham Berry and Co., and the Royal
Colonial Institute. . . ’ It is only this trouble-
some province of Victoria that is kicking up the
row, for obviously none of the other Australian
provinces care much. In Victoria it is an upper-
class agitation, as hollow as can be, the middle-
class being almost indifferent, and the working-
class not caring two straws. However, we may
look confidently to the people of Great Britain,
who will never consent to become embroiled with
the French, with the wrong on our side. Note
how the Governor of Victoria, Sir H. B. Loch,
has been reduced to an insignificant puppet by
the intriguing of Sir Graham Berry in London
Mr. Justice Higinbotham must be delighted,
bearing in mind his denunciations of the sj stem
which made Her Majesty’s Ministers in Victoria
subservient to Downing-street and the Governor.
A very fair idea of the style in which the
insanity dodge has been played off by some of the
favoured criminals of N.S.W. may be gained
from a perusal of the debate in the Upper House
on the case of Louis Bertrand. Dr. Creed Quoted
the case of Patrick Hall (a near relative of the
bushranger, Ben. Hall), who was twice convicted,
and while serving his second sentence, received an
injury, which, it was alleged, would lead to a
danger of losing his life, or reason, if further con-
finement was insisted on. He was, therefore, re-
leased, and in a few days after, this man, whose
health was said to be utterly broken down, and
whose brain was supposed to be fast giving way,
found to be most ably conducting intricate
business with a solicitor on a question of land, and
was riding long journeys on horseback through
the bush in perfect health of body and mind.
Bertrand’s own case was equally remarkable, for
shortly after he was relegated to a lunatic asylum
as being too mad even for the gallows, lie was
actually engaged as ciacliman to the supermten
dent of the asylum, and was at liberty to drive
the wife of that officer about the streets of Parra-
matta. This we take to be the highest confidence
that can be placed in a coachman.


C,K£AT PRIZE
Pic, Hr
-SATURDAY
LAW Fou£Ys
CvjAPEL
C,ATE-NIONEV
SUN PA?
SPECIAL 5E WOT
_ Against
CjANtBLirft;
Coi.t»ecrioN
jj- 0 0
The Reason Why.
REV. AMINADAB WORMWOOD (log.): “HOW IS IT, MR. FOLEY? YOUR SATURDAY NIGHT PRIZE-FIGHT DRAWS £800; MY SPECIAL SUNDAY MORNING
DISCOURSE AGAINST THE PERNICIOUS HABIT OF GAMBLING ONLY BRINGS ME £8.”
LAWRENCE FOLEY, Esg.: “YOUR REVERENCE, IT’S JUST THIS WAY. MY SHOW IS FOR THE YOUNG MEN, YOUR SHOW IS FOR THE OLD WOMEN.”


Sydney D.T. speaks of Mr. Garvan as “ Samson,
shorn of his locks.’’ Wonder who is the Delilah
in the case ?
De Freycinet hopes to “ solve the existing diffi-
culties with Great Britain in a manner conformable'
to the dignity of France.’'
The Murray river question is to be
settled amicably at last. The colonies
of N.S.W. and Victoria have each
agreed to bottle up its own half
f f S
The N.S.W.. Eight Hours
—Some people
have queer ideas of a holiday.
df
ftMWAy
* A “log” for somebody to “roll.”
British Scientific Person (who has
at last got a bona-fide invitation to
visit Australia) : “ Let me see, now ;
I think that this will be the only
scientific instrument I shall
need in Victoria. 1 *
, SIu,QX /Act?
y-y/%£-
focAy^t c~ Cc^z^Ay^/f£ /AAZx?/(. A<?<U>€^ a &y. _ $*- & Ioi~ J) o~*~/<L *ZJLJ—
mpdFPAUXfi'V'rt TTA 'ftWEKL-
Personal. —E. Han-
lan. —IHI see you later—
same place.
W, Beach.
Topics of the Time.


Society
There was some disappointment felt last
Thursday when it was found that Lady Carington
would not be “at home ” as usual, but had flitted
with H.E. to the National Park. A considerable
number of visitors to Sydney had put off their re-
turn for a few days in order that they might “look
in ” on vice-royalty, and it is needless to say they
thought her ladyship might have stayed in to see
them and gone a-parking some other day.
* * *
His Excellency and Lady Oarington gave a
large musical party on Tuesday evening, the 28th
September. A “select” party of the Sydney
Liedertafel were “ rounded up ” by a well-known
gentleman to sing for the amusement of the guests
on the occasion ; hence much discord in musical
quarters. By the way, not a few people attended
the affair thinking there Avas to be a dance.
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson leaves Sydney on the 14th
inst. for Melbourne, where she will remain for
the races. Then she will no doubt find her way
to Hobart, in order that the Russians may not find
the place defenceless during “ the season.”
* * *
A very successful and fashionable concert
was given in Sydney Protestant Hall on 1 st inst.
by professional and amateur performers. A
duet on two pianos by Mrs. Boesen and
Mrs. W. Cooper w r as well received. Mis 3
Frances Saville sang in charming style,
her appearance greatly enhancing the effect.
Her toilet Avas a most tasteful one, the front of
the skirt a mass of thick white jetted lace, per-
fectly fitting bodice (also richly jetted) and very
long train of rich brocade, cream and pink being
the predominant colours. Lord and Lady Caring-
ton, with a large Government House party, were
present, and took much interest in the performance.
The front of the stage was beautifully decorated
with flowers and evergreens. Immediately in the
front stood a lyre almost coA r ered with tiny
white flowers, the Avhole having a most pleasing
effect. The hall Avas well filled. We should think
that a good sum will be handed over to Miss
Bessie Doyle (a most promising young musician,
pupil of Herr Josef Kretsckmann), for whose
benefit the concert was given.
* * *
H.M.S. Miranda lias returned to Sydney
from the Islands. The reports are —sport dull
and niggers shy. Tickled a few of ’em with ball
cartridge and celebrated the Queen’s approaching
Jubilee, illuminating a few villages with shell.
Britannia rules the waves.
* * *
Captain Brooke and the officers of H.M.
p opular ship Opal gave an afternoon dance on board ,
at Farm Cove on Wednesday, 29th inst. The Opal
is comparatively small, but every effort had been
made to utilise all the space possible. Some time
ago the officers of this ship attempted to giA r e a
dance on shore, but they were sternly forbidden
to do so by the Admiral. They have, however,
done their best to return the hospitality of Sydney.
If there was any fault to find with the supper it
was that it was more sumptuous than was neces-
sary. The hosts had wisely restricted the number
of guests, and, as they had protected the gang-
ways with a file of marines and loaded guns, few
who had not been asked thought it Avorth while
to attend. The crew of this ship are daily
expecting the arrival of the Thalia, the vessel
that is to relieve them. Consequently, they had
a homeward-bound pendant flying from the main.
As usual, there was a good deal of dancing, the band
of H.M.S. Nelson performing admirably. Lady
Carington was attired in a very simple and quiet
costume of brown cloth, with golden embroidered
panels, bonnet and parasol en suite ; Mrs. Arthur
Blackwood appeared in cream brocaded satin and
gold bonnet.
* * *
A beautiful little example of feminine
spite is subjoined. It came to us on scented paper
enclosed in a pink envelope:—“A social writer
has a pretty story, and loves to tell it. It’s this :
‘ Oh, do you know, the dear Governor told me he
cannot bear to read any ‘ social ’ but mine. He
says ” —and so on. It is back-scratching with a
vengeance, as H.E. is spoken of in terms that
make his mistress a bad second, and Albert a
worse third.
* * *
The inaugural performance of the Burwood
Amateur Dramatic Association took place at the
local School of Arts, on 30th ult. The pieces
played were “Betsy Baker” and “Little Toddle-
kins.” The Misses Sandeman and Miss Friend
sustained a portion of the responsibility, and did
not disappoint: while of the gentlemen Mr.
Christopher Little bore off the principal honors.
The large and fashionable audience were at the
outset of the performance electrified by a pro-
logue in Averse of a distinctly Burwoodish brand,
the bard being Mr. G. Cansdell. The object of
the entertainment was to pay the expenses. The
object came off.
* * *
“The Vagabond’s” diplomacy, writes a
Bulletin correspondent, “ shone forth at Chester
Town Hall the other day, on the occasion of the
presentation of the Colonial gang to the magnates
of this place. The Duke of Westminster took
down to dinner the local lady mayoress. Follow-
ing this august couple, the Mayor had on his arm
the present beautiful Duchess of Westminster (No.
2,by the way). Hard on the heels of this aristocratic
pair what spectacle, think you, met the disgusted
eyes of Burdett Smith and Co., who were far off in
the rear ? Not to prolong the agony, the third
couple consisted of the ever immortal Julian
Thomas, upon whom rested the nude and some-
what over-plump arm of the wife of the Bishop of
Chester. When Burdett beheld this he closed his
eyes and almost fell off in a swoon on the tesselated
pavement.”
* * *
An irreverent Australian "who has just met
the Prince of Wales in England thus writes to a
Queensland friend: —“Albert EdAvard, who re-
ceived F and myself in what I suppose should
be termed a ‘ gracious ’ manner, is a fat —perhaps
I should say squat — bald-headed man of the
German Jew type. He talked Avith us for se\ r eral
minutes and seemed to be anxious to give one the
idea that he thinks himself no better than the
man he is talking to. But nevertheless I somehow
formed the impression that if you allowed him to
see that you entirely coincided with him in his
estimate of himself he would endeavour to sit
down on you ‘in one act.’ I have met in Aus-
tralia scores and scores of far more kingly men
than the Heir Apparent—he appears to be right
down commonplace in fibre. He is not taller than
T. N. Fitzgerald, the Melbourne surgeon, but
what a pigmy he icoulcl look alongside that
Napoleonically broad-browed little man, who, I
see, was selected to write, and has written, for
the latest edition of the best-known English sur-
gical text-book the article on hydatids. That is
what I call fame ! The selection is indeed an
honour for Fitz. ; the colonies are lucky in possess-
ing a surgeon who, if he chose to settle in London,
would make —well, perhaps neither he nor any
other man could anywhere make much more than
his present professional incomeof say£ls,oooayear.
Returning, however, to A. E. I was told the
other day that he had dismissed his valet because
the latter, in shaving him, presumed to catch hold
of the royal nose. The dignity of the Crown has,
it is plain, to be jealously guarded now-a-days.”
* * *
The scene is laid in Government House,
longitude 115, Australia. A dinner party was
assembled, and an exiled flunkey had just finished
banging a gong when the hostess —a pretty but
superstitious lady who, according to report, is a
spiritualist and amuses herself by calling up dead
sinners and asking them how they like the climate
—gave a cry of horror, and exclaimed, “I won’t
go to dinner ! There are 13 ! ” Reasoning, coaxing,
and entreaty, were all of no avail. The lady was
immovable ; the Governor grew mad ; and the
HOW’S THAT UMPIRE? CAUGHT.
At last ! rest for the wicket. Henceforth cricket on the hearth. Spofforthis married.
guests, who saw their victuals fading away till they
looked like Chinese perspective, used hungry
western cusses under their breath. Fortunately a
happy thought struck the lady, else they might all
be waiting yet. She summoned the gorgeous
menial and said : “James, give my compliments
to Mr. Bigphool; tell him to get ready as quickly
as possible and come to dinner.” There was
another awful pause, during which the guests
grew ravenous enough to devour each other, but
just as the Governor was beginning to -give vent
to some remarks, and the cook down-stairs was
subsiding into tears over the ruined dinner, the
door opened, Mr. Bigphool appeared in swallow-
tail and the crisis was over.
* * *
Thus “ Pendragon ” in the Referee: —
“In Melbourne, another disease from which they
suffer is the English, or rather Scottish, Sunday ;
which in one way came to our relief, as, when we
arrived at our place of destination, the Customs
officials were at prayers and allowed us to pass
into the town unmolested. . . . Public-houses
are entirely closed on Sunday here, but the bottle
passes vigorously at the street corners, and if peo-
ple ever do get drunk in Melbourne, be sure they
doit on the ‘blessed Sabbath.’” The table at
Menzies’ Hotel pleased him, but of the attendants
he writes : “ There is a strange air of familiarity
about the servants, as, indeed, there is about all
people employed in what we at home consider
menial positions in these colonies. Don’t think I
object to this ; I don’t; so long as men and women
do their work, I have always been ready to accord
them full freedom to anything short of absolute
rudeness ; indeed, undue civility is ever distaste-
ful to me —it only means expectation of gratuity.
Still, no one can help feeling surprise at the
change. I felt surprised, and so I commit my
surprise to paper. Almost as soon as I got ashore
I was seized with an acute attack of mine ancient
enemy the gout. When I began to get about,
‘ Well, how’s the gout this morning ?’ or, ‘ Hullo,
your game leg seems a bit better,’ in a tone which
suggested ‘ old feller ’ at the end of the sentence,
was my usual morning’s salutation from the more
agreeable of the men servants. Not the waiters,
who are too busy to talk and who are fairly polite,
but the other men, the porters and cleaners and
gentry of that ilk.”
* * *
Scene —a high-toned ball. Military man
to well-known lady-reporter: “Haw! thought
reportahs were not to be asked heah to-night.”
Lady special, for once silent, goes off with a snort,
* * *
There are a good many stories thrown
against the “ books ”by the holy brethren. Here
is another stone, but there’s some gold in it. When
Holt’s wife was left pretty well penniless, it was
not the club men, who had made thousands out of
him over the “ green cloth,” that helped her in her
sorrow; but the loud-voiced sons of the ring put
together no less a sum than £7OO, and started the
poor lady back to her friends. More than this,
they mean to give her husband a “lift” when ho
gets out and finds himself “cut” by the crowd
who “ travelled ” with him when he was on the
road to ruin. Just throw that stone again. It
will never hit a Union Clubman.
* * *
The tale goes that a titled London Lothario
was watched by eight private detectives during
the past season. They were working in the in-
terests of eight suspicious husbands.
* * *
Even the red-lieaded aristocrat and the
lady with the perpetual cold who haunt Govern-
ment House, Sydney, can learn something in the
matter of toadyism from N.Z. Lady Jervois, lilte®
Lady Carington, is charitably inclined, and hiar
particular fad is an annual doll-show, the
of which go to buy unmentionables for the locall
heathen. This year her consignment of undressed
wax and wooden babies came to hand as usual,
and she appealed to the ladies who compose Wel-
lington ‘ ‘ sassiety ” to undertake the duty of mak-
ing garments for the naked innocents. A day
was fixed accordingly when all the tone of the
capital was to roll up and the images were to be
taken away for the purpose of being dressed,
but an hour before the time some ladies, who-
were not “ in sassiety,” got in and abducted the
consignment, leaving only three broken-nosed
dolls behind. They sent word that they intended
undertaking the work themselves, and, of course,,
hope to find admission to Government House when
they bring back their load. Lady Jervois is so-
mad that she is half inclined to send a policeman
to recover her property.
* * *
From a London paper : —“ Special Detec-
tive. —Notice. —Slaters’ Detective Association
have the most complete arrangements possible for
tracing missing friends and suspected persons at
the Colonial Exhibition, same having already
proved successful in divorce and other matters.-
Henry Slater, manager, 27 Basinghall-street,
City.” We wonder what Graham Berry thinks
of it all 2
* * *
“ Sir William Clarke,” we read, “has pur-
chased for £9OO three panels of tapestry made afe
the Royal Tapestry Works, for the decoration of
his residence, near Melbourne.”
* * *
Madame Summerhayes, the 'well-known
pianist, has had the misfortune to fall down stairs
and break her arm. Her recovery is not expected
to take long.
* * *
People are quite tired of reading that
Marks and Moses and Aaron have taken steps to
sequestrate that Sydney man’s estate.
* * *
As the lowest blackguards in Sydney now
delight in holding high revel at Coogee, the trams
running in that direction often carry heavy
top-loads of larrikins. The other day a foul-
mouthed hoodlum, who regards the wide world as
a mere spittoon, incontinently expectorated on the
hat of a gentleman who had the misfortune to be
his travelling companion. The latter, a quiet
person who is not to be trifled with, calmly took
off his tile and deliberately wiped it on the artis-
tically-braided paget coat of the man with
the mouth. The latter, white with passion,
doubled up his fist, perceiving which the man
with the hat at once gave his carefully-dressed
friend a lightning backhander that made him
“ see stars.” The gentlemanfrom Woolloomooloo
dropped dead for two minutes. Then he came
round a bit, but considered it advisable to be half-
dead for five minutes more. Presently he stood
up somewhat “ groggily,” and on being asked in a
most brutally cynical manner ‘ ‘ whether he wanted
any more ?” blurted out: “Oh, you’re too good
for me. But (in a sulky tone), “ 1 don’t see why
yo\i should a made such a noise about that. A
fellow’d think you was a nobleman or a dook.”
Woolloomooloo definition of a duke : A man who
is so high-toned that he actually objects to be spat
upon.
* *
This is how a London paper refers to the
recent beslavering of “ representative Austra-
lians :—“ Some of the money voted for the pur-
pose of entertaining them has been wasted in the
perpetration of great follies, and our reckless
method of procedure is likely to give them the
wrongest of impressions with regard to England’s
real financial position.” Just so. Now that our
well-fed friends are returning to us, we shall hear
much about the increased prosperity of England,
and the improved condition of the masses. Our
representative ones have been looking at English
life through champagne-glasses and the smoke of
shilling cigars. When men who leave their
country in disgust, and with twopence in their
pockets, return thither to be stroked down by
obsequious mayors and corporations, it is hard for
those men to believe that their native country
hasn’t been going ahead during their absence, or
that the people haven’t all been making their
piles. They erroneously compare the struggling
friends of their youth with the ostentatious enter-
tainers of their cld ages.
* * *
St. Barnabas’ Church looked gay on Wed-
nesday last on the occasion of the wedding of Miss
Foster (eldest daughter of Hon. W. J. Foster,
M.L.A.) with Mr. M‘Lardy, the well-known
George-street printer. The bride wore a handsome
white ottoman silk draped in the front with
orange blossoms and wreath to match, with long
tulle veil. The chief bridesmaid, Miss Helen
Foster, and the second, Miss M‘Lardy, were attired
in white embroidered muslins, white lace hats
with cream feathers, and looked exceedingly
pretty. Miss Jeffreys, of Molong, a little fairylike
maiden of two years old, was the third brides-
maid. A number of handsome costumes were
shown by the numerous guests. Dr. M‘Cormack
acted as best man. Honeymoon at Melbourne.
* * *
Mrs. Frank Stephen (Melbourne) has
issued a large number of invitations for the mar-
riage of her daughter with Colonel Bingham on
the 14th inst.
* * *
A considerable .flutter was caused at the
recent return ball to Mayor Young by the action
of the committee in requesting the retirement
from the festive scene of the lady companion of a
certain gentleman guest.
* * *
A pretty wedding took place at St. John’s
Church, Ashfield, on the 22nd ult., when Mr. W.
C. Payne, of Melbourne, was married to Clare,
youngest daughter of Captain Adams. The bride,
in the usual wedding attire, looked very pretty ;
also the seven bridesmaids, who were dressed in
pure white China silk, each carrying a bouquet
horse-shoe shape, composed entirely of Marguerite
daisies. A large number of guests were present.
A dance in the evening, attended by about 70
visitors, brought the day to a pleasant end.
TWENTY-THREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’re the airiest thing,
Light as bird on the wing,
Or a skyward leaf on a tall, tall tree,
Or as flowers that rest
On a new bride’s breast,
Or as light as a false lover’s perjury.
In this world of whirls,
Where the white-necked girls
Are brilliant in lace, and are flushing with glee,
Perchance I might say
You are like to the spray
That is white on the waves of tho wind-blown sea.
Where the tread keeps time
In a sliding rhyme
To the grand “ Blue Danube ” or sweet “ Ma Vie,”
You’re a floating belle,
As your partners tell,
The best in the room—that is their decree.
Xu resplendent halls,
Where the waltz-tune falls
Like a cadence from heaven’s own harmony,
Oh, your dancing rare
Is beyond compare,
You are queen of the realm where the lightfeetglee
The ball’s nearly done,
The last dance but one,
An enjoyable night, so they all agree j '
But—l’ve something to say,
You are going ? No, stay
Just a minute—now don’t turn away from me.
Ye 5, I know, there’s the band,
But don’t c,lip out your hand,
Here’s your programme—my dance —we’re en-
gaged. you see;
Take me and my name,
Look, I’ll spell yours the same —
It’s for life now, as well as for twenty-three,
Sydney, October, 1886,
A. FRY


THE WHISPERING
CALLERV
On Thursday, 30th ult., Mr. and Mrs. Cooper gave a dinner
party.
Mrs. Busby, Double Bay, had a musical evening on Ist
instant.
On Tuesday, the 28th ult., Mrs. F. Moore gave a most suc-
cessful dance.
Mr. and Mrs. .T. Purvea gave an enjoyable picnic at North
Shore on 2Sth ult.
Mrs. Mitchell, of Eltham, Darling Point, gave a large
garden party on Ist inst.
Dr. and Mrs. Chisholm gave a dance at their residence,
As’ifield, on Friday, Ist inst.
On Friday afternoon, the Ist, Mrs. Fred. Moore organised a
driving party, which was a great success.
Mrs. Thomas Knox, of Double Bay, entertained her
friends at a water party on Friday, Ist inst.
The engagement of Mr. Thomas Rolin to the daughter of
a leading Sydney stockbroker is reported.'
Mrs. Alick Campbell gave a very pleasant water picnic on
Saturday afternoon, 2nd inst. About 40 guests were present
“ Thank you.” Radies, cut this out and commit it to mem
ory. It r<iay come useful when a gentleman offers you hi
seat in a ’bus.
They won’t let him alone. Even from far England come
Truth to throw a brick at the horsemanship of Lord Bertie
A.D.C. to the N.S.W. Governor.
Lady Oarington, on the 30th ult., opened a road in the
National Park district. Having ridden seven miles along
the track her Ladyship said it was open enough.
On the 29th ult.. at the new Masonic Hall, the Black Dia
monds Minstrels gave a charcoal entertainment. TTniversa
delight was the result at the time—and general depression
since.
Lord Carington says he is not going in for yachting much
himself. This is to be regretted, as so many would follow
even if it made them sea-sick or gave them a first-class show
of being drowned.
The East Sydney Football Club picnic at Longueville was a
success. It commenced with a sail round the harbour, anc
ended, as usual, with victuals, an arrangement which seemed
to give general satisfaction.
M. Kowalski’s promenade concerts at Sydney Exhibition
Building a success. Forty-two players perform on reed in-
struments, conducted by Mr. H. M’Mahon. The selections
chosen are familiar and popular.
The hot wind carried up a lady's beautiful baok-hair in a
crowded street, in South Melbourne, and left her blushing
and bald before the multitude. The little incident was aptly
spoken of as another rise in wool.
On Saturday afternoon Mrs. Edward Moriarty gave a
most successful garden party at her residence, North Shore.
Between 50 and 60 guests were present. Dancing and singing
was the order of the programme.
A leading Sydney undertaker went to a recent hospital
ball witli his family in a mourning coach. The sad procession
moved from his residence at 9 p.m., and returned at that
hour when church yards yawn.
“ It seems to me,” said Mrs. Foxpaw’s particular friend,
“ that dear Maria is liying in better style than ever since she
was divorced.”—“ Oh, yes,” replied Mrs. Foxpaw; “but don’t
you know why? She’s living on the antimony which the Court
gave her.”
The Bombala Quadrille Club held their first ball in the
local School of Arts on Wednesday, the 29th September. The
programme included 24 dances, and the ladies’ dresses and
the excellent supper made up for ary slight deficiencies in
the music.
There are no old maids in Japan. When a woman doesn’t
get married voluntarily, the authorities hunt up a miserable
old bachelor and tie the pair together for life. The operatic
Gilbert forgot this when he sketched out that demoralised
old wreck, Katisha.
“ Menevia,” Snail’s Bay (N.S.W.), was, on Friday, 24th
ult., tire scene of a pleasurable dance, given to signalise the
occupancy of the villa by its new tenants. Every provision
had been made for the comfort of the guests, who danced
With much emphasis till daylight.
Tight-lacing goes on as badly as ever. At a Sydney
Suburban hop, recently, a loud report was heard, which
proved to be the bodice of a too-tightly-compressed damsu
bursting from her shoulder to her waist! And “ oh, what a
falling off was there ! ” She was hastily enveloped in blushes
and a cloud.
On Wednesday, the 29th ult., an Oxfqrd and Cambridge
dinner came off at Baumann’s Cafe, Sydney. Over 50 guests
were present, including Lord Carington (jn the chair), Bishop
Barry, Professor Scott, Mr. Wallington, and others. Toasts
were crowded in as thickly as there was room for. Affaii
Successful.
In a N.S.W. town there is a bank-manager who is so lovely
and fascinating, in his own estimation, that he says he fears
to mix in local society lest his future path in lirle should be
an avenue lined with an unending double row of broken
hearts. Up to date he is the only person who has become
enamoured of himself.
„At a Sydney wedding (which would have been very
fashionable ” had it not been very quiet) the other day, !
young woman turned up, accompanied by a throe-year-olc
hoy, whom she insisted on bringing under the notice of the
bridegroom. However, the bride didn’t seem to mind—she
told ’em to go ahead with the music. And they did,
We must not he too hard on the Sydney Government
House young man who wears the balloon trousers, and the
many-coloured coat marked off into paddocks. Such things
are the custom in this country. Courtney, M.P., presented
himself to be sworn in the Commons lately, neatly attired
in a white hat, yellow waistcoat, brown coat, grey trousers,
sky-blue necktie, and with a red flower in his button-hole.
A fascinating young London lady, who can handle the
ribbons, has resolved to be independent and make a for-
tune. She proposes, therefore, to start a splendid hansom
cab, to drive it herself, and charge triple fares. Should she
be patronised she will start several more, each driven by a
young lady. The idea is a joyous one. No more shall the
brutal cabby descend from his perch at 3 a.m. to take it
out,of the penniless swell.
‘‘One thing is certain,” says an English paper. “Everybody
officially connected with the Exhibition is delighted with the
Prince of Wales. He has treated them all royally, and on
several occasions has personally seen to the comfort of the
commissioners. The climax was reached the other day
when several of them had tea with the royal family, the
Princess with her own fair hands pouring out the fragrant
jmhea, and inquiring with her own sweet voice if they all
took milk and sugar.
Dr. Wynne, who went broke recently in London, seems to
nave the financing bump well developed. He said that a
Sentieman had been paying him £550 a year “ for being
engaged to his niece,” and he had lived on that until he could
not stand the young lady's temper any longer. Then he
married a dressmaker and lived on her earnings. He
™e d Dis failun to the fact that when he returned his first
sweetheart as a valueless article the uncle grew excited and
tiVv l * allowance. His assets consisted of a lot of pawn-
■ icKets, and he left the court without a stain on his character
liabilities, £5O ; dividend, Is. in the £ payable in 12 months
At this year's British Medical Association Congress the
.jJ, mnnt spoke on “the higher education of women, con-
« ~r reti in the light of Herbert Spencer’s dictum — that the
that T ef iuisite of good living was to be a good animal, and
t 0 , a nation of good animals was a first condition of
KpbM prosperity.” He said that “ the strain of competi-
thp str . u ggles against the superior strength of men proved
w a m ruinc ! us unwisdom of encouraging the competition of
ediin? men * n severe brain-work, and that the higher
unfit? I??. °f women disposed them against matrimony and
w them for motherhood. The over-training of women
0 f u® more to deteriorate the race than all the triumphs
term?!?? 11 ? c °Ueges to improve it —in short, women were in-
ued to be, not men, but the mothers of men.”
The prosecution in the Mount Rennie
case 3 are trying to prove just a leetle too
. u . Take, for instance, the evidence of the
who deposed that the girl Hicks ‘ ‘ never
Gllt outj of an evening except to go to church.”
ahi^ la t Parisian papers term a “ deplor-
* e occurrence ” has jnst taken place in France.
t \vr> a ° had a good deal of property and
of \ 30n . S ’ the latter were getting rather tired
to „ lor the money. Accordingly, they tried
burr - ° tidy into an asylum for the insane,
stab in this attempt, they tied her to a
to n°. all d roasted her to death. It is satisfactory
e Veri ’ however, that they looked after her soul
thre U p der those depressing circumstances. They
w holy water over her while she was roasting.
BRIEF MENTION.
Not worth a rush—Kimberley.
Positive, Noble ; comparative, nobbier.
Parramatta wants a corps of Lanceahs. They’ve al-
ready got the intelligent horses.
Times are bad in Port Augusta. There are two un-
employed men there, besides the Civil servants.
A Mr. Wolf, of Melbourne, has lately married a Miss
Boan. Naturally a Wolf would pick a Boan.
A 255. coin to be called an “Empress” is the latest
Jubilee “fad.” Anew saxpence called “Brownless” wouldn't
be a bad idea.
A Penny Comic Paper is now published in Melbourne.
If it were re-christened “ Extracts from the Bulletin ” that
paper would do well.
They have a curious way of fixing dates in Otago, N.Z.
“It happened on one of them two fine days wo had about
18 months ago,” is near enough, and everybody understands it.
Extract from country (N.S.W.) police-court charge
sheet:—“Name of prisoner, Tommy (aboriginal). Offence
—Being of unsound mind. Remarks —First offence. Decision
—Discharged with a caution.”
Horror of horrors. In another month the virtuous
people of N.S.W. will be joined by rail to the land of sin and
grog, where every man, woman, child, and blackfellow, drinks
300 or 100 rums every year.
A dead juryman has been fined two guineas for non-
attendance at the Melbourne Central Criminal Court. As
the fine remains unpaid, they are going to instruct a dead police-
man to arrest the juryman for contempt.
The “correct,” not to say stilted, S. M. Herald is
our authority for the statement that in a Brickfield-hill buggy-
smash, the “ foot pedestrians were scattered.” Now, Mr.
Sam Cook, what are you giving US ?
A Wagga paper would like Governor Carington to
visit them pretty often, in order to induce the local aristocrats
to rise early. Our contemporary evidently forgets that early
rising is inconsistent with nocturnal insobriety.
Captain Pincombe, who seems to have
been hired as boss delusionist in West Australia,
says that “there never was such a gold-field
known ”as Kimberley. That is just our opinion,
and we can only hope that no such crimson sham
will ever be known again.
In Australia when a captain runs his ship
ashore out of sheer pig-headedness, the news is
published as “Marine Intelligence.” And simi-
larly when a policeman takes to the watchhouse a
man who has a fit and locks him up in the drunks’
cell, the item is labelled “ Police Intelligence.”
It is now reported that Alexander of Bul-
garia was taken by surprise in his bod-room and
forced to abdicate in his shirt and one sock. Even
then the conspirators were in such a hurry to get
rid of him that he had to start into exile carrying
his boots in his hand for want of time to put them
on.
Mozzle and Brocha.—Greeting ! This
Saturday being the Jewish day of Atonement, the
man who writes this will stay at home awaiting
visits from such Hebrew gentlemen as may desire
to atone in specie for the usurious wrongs done
him in more tempestuous days by the children of
Israel.
Mrs. Taylor, the Melbourne “nurse,”
who was tried for malpractice last w T eek, is a most
difficult lady to suit with jurors. Nothing in the
shape of a bald head or a grey beard goes down
with Mrs. T. This is unkind, considering how
much bald-headed men have, indirectly, done for
her, at one time or another.
The proprietress of a Melbourne hash-
foundry sued a boarder who refused to pay his
rent. It was proved that he was under age, and
the clerk of the Court cheerfully reminded her
that providing for minors “ was a mug’s game.”
“He’s not a miner,” growled the purveyor of
homes for single men ; “he’s a railway porter.”
Judge Innes complains of the immense
strain of work placed upon the Supreme Court
Judges of N.S.W., and risks the opinion tha*:
when a judge some day dies on the Bench more
consideration will be shown for his surviving
brethren. If Judge Innes feels that his brain re-
quires a thorough rest the best thing for him to do
is to take a seat on the jury. We are ready to
draw his salary.
In these pleasure-seeking days it is inter-
esting to learn of a novel recreation. The Mel-
bourne Jews — we have it on the authority of a
local paper—“spent their time in fasting and
lengthy devotional exercises” upon their New Year's
Day. This should be a valuable hint to the blast,
man of the world who is bored to death for want
of something to do. He can occupy himself with
not eating anything for 21 hours.
The 1200 juveniles attending the Mayoress
of Melbourne’s fancy dress ball are to be photo-
graphed at their hostess’s expense. In the ordinary
course of things a certain percentage of these
young people will live to be photographed at their
country’s expense—in quite a different sort of
fancy dress. We don’t want to damp their
ardour just at the very outset of their career,
but our assertion can be backed up with figures.
Speaking of the so-called N.S.W. Defence
Force, Plain Bill observed that Captain Walker,
whilst engaged night and day laying down tor-
pedoes during the Russian scare, was also “ ad-
ministering the great Telegraph Department of
the colony.” Just so. And the infuriated people
of this country were whooping mad to know why
the great Telegraph Department couldn’t hurry a
special “wire ” along any faster than a wooden-
legged man could kick his hat.
It is just 150 years since the last case of
“pressing to death” took place in England. In
those good old times when a man was brought up
for stealing a loaf, or something of the kind, and
refused to plead, they tied him down on the floor
and put a stone weighing 1001 b. on his stomach.
If he still, kept silent, the weight was gradually
increased to 3501 b. and then the executioner
jumped on him and finished the job. We can
afford to shudder at these things, for no legal
atrocity half so awful has happened in N.S.W.
these four months.
An Adelaide paper, reporting a cattle
show held a fortnight ago, said that “ His Honor
and Mr. C. Rake were the only exhibition of
Poland China boars, and two splendid speci-
mens they were. Here, too, the judges were set a
difficult task, but they decided in favour of Mr.
Rake. These two immense pigs were all that
could be desired, and naturally enough they came
in for a large amount of attention.” The law of
libel must be loose in S. A. We know of a good
many eminent men in Sydney who answer the
above description admirably, but it would cost us
more than we care to think of if wo alluded to
them as “ these immense pigs.”
Some of the Melbourne papers have made
George Darrell sit up by asserting, through the
medium of a letter, that he plagiarised the “Sog-
garth” from one of “ Garryowen’s” (Edmund
Finn’s) stories. Now George is going to make the
papers sit up, to which end he will use £lO,OOO
worth of blue paper as a lever. Before the case
goes to the jury, your Honor, we would like to
ask the plaintiff a question. Is it not a fact, Mr.
Darrell, that much of the interest of the drama
you dedicated to Plain Bill lies in the fact that
your gory villain makes the Soggarth an accom-
plice to his crimes by revealing the same to him
in the confessional ? And that the pivot on which
what is called your “ dinner-mong” turns is the
unwary reference by the said villain to the afore-
said crimes, when the before-mentioned Soggarth
alone was present, and no sacramental seal of
secresy closed his lips, as in the former case ?
Answer in the affirmative. Then, your Honor,
we submit that plaintiff is entitled only to a non-
suit, as the principal story in Mrs. Hall’s well-
known book, “ Legends and Stories of Ireland,
turns on exactly the same incident.
THE AUSTRALIAN
POLICEMAN.
We have a new find out to communi-
cate to the world, and are as proud thereof
as a hoy with a broken arm. The police of
Australia are getting fat. Treat it not
lightly, dear reader; tis a matter of vast
moment, and a grim fact. Taken from his
shovel and his hoe, and placed upon a
heat where the languishing cook, and the
big meat-pie abound, the youthful pro-
tector of our persons and our portable
valuables rapidly acquires oleaginous
matter, and feelingly appeals to thecountiy
for more uniform. The muscular, wiry
constable, with an eye which penetrated
like a gimlet, is but a memory. He is deed
and to-day his beat resounds with the
elephantine tread of an epicurean copper.
The policeman’s best friend cannot but ad-
mit that his efficiency is impaired by obese-
ness. A man in the last stages of fatty de-
generation cannot be -expected to pursue
the fleet larrikin with success, or capture a circus-tiger, out on a visit, with the celerity necessary to the public peace. Then the snow-dropper, the
chicken-thief, and the gay garotter, are turning the development to account, and rarely do we peruse pur respected morning contemporary without strik-
ing a case of some wily footpad butting a zealous officer in the vest, and getting right back to the Barcoo with a peaceable citizen’s property, while the
public servant is fossicking round for wind. The frugal wife of the Sydney “ trap ” finds material enough in his discarded inexpressibles to make the son
and heir a sabbath suit and a school cap, and have scraps sufficient for a patch-work quilt, a door-mat, and a kettle-holder ; this is a good thing for his
family, we admit, hut how about our bleeding country ? Endeavours of a strenuous nature must he made to restrain the force’s tendency towards corpu-
lency, or a hard-working community will soon he saddled with the hoarding and lodging of a few battalions of waddling comatose monsters—they can’t all
get into the Waxworks. There is hut one remedy, and we give it to every purchaser of a copy of The Bulletin. Bind the cooks over to keep the pieces.


A REMARKABLE FACT
in connection with the late Calcutta Exhibition,
and one which cannot be too highly valued for its
peculiar bearing upon these colonies, is the in-
creased knowledge of Australia which has been
already manifested through its agency, and the
evident interest that has been awakened in a direc-
tion in which it would be highly profitable and
in every sense advantageous for us to have
intimate relationship.
THE CITY OF PALACES,
As the metropolis of British India is called, is a
commercial centre of great importance ; and when
our hopes are realized of a big trade being opened
between these colonies and that vast emporium,
the advantages will be in every way enormous.
The population of Calcutta in 1881 was 683,458 —
that is without Howrah.
Among the many
SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITORS
at the Calcutta Exhibition were the proprietors of
St. Jacobs Oil, the world renowned remedy. Day
by day this great boon and true
FRIEND OF SUFFERING HUMANITY
is extending its beneficial influence. Testimonials,
unsolicited, are sent to the agents, accompanied
by grateful expressions of thankfulness on the part
of those who have been saved from disorders of
various kinds, or who have been relieved from pain
of long-standing by the timely use of the Oil, which
acts like a charm. Necessarily, the agents are un-
able to do more than select a few from the large
number of letters sent; and it may have been
observed that such as have been published repre-
sent all classes of society—persons engaged in all
manner of pursuits, from the hardy miner and the
sailor, whose occupations are those of hardship and
exposure, to the office clerk and others engaged in
sedentary occupations, and also the wealthy free-
liver.
ONE OF THE EXHIBITS
that obtained special distinction was, as we have
said, St. Jacobs Oil, the most celebrated medicine
of its class, perhaps in the world. The experience
of the Judges appointed to award prizes enabled
them to confer upon it a distinction never before
bestowed upon any other patent medicine, and
they accordingly award it
THE GOLD MEDAL.
Testimonials of the most convincing character,
showing the marvellous curative powers of the
Oil, as locally experienced, were forthcoming ; and
it was on the strength of these, and the general
evidence presented to them, that the Jurors
awarded the medal. This fact speaks volumes, i
and needs no explanation or comment to further
recommend it.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
of the value of the cure has been furnished by the
Inspector of Post-Offices at Calcutta, who used the
oil with most beneficial results whilst an inmate of
the Hospital at Sealdah, suffering from smallpox
It is as follows :
“Campbell Hospital, Sealdah,
Calcutta.
“Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of St. Jacobs Oil in cases of sore throats,
pains, &c., and suffering while in this institution
with a sore throat, I obtained the permission of the
medical officers, who attended me for small pox,
to use it, and have much pleasure in stating that
a single application gave me much relief, and in
three days, using the oil twice daily, I felt rid of
the sore throat. I have no hesitation in recom-
mending the use of the same to others, and feel
sure they will find the oil gives instantaneous
relief. I would also here mention that with the
sore throat I had a severe pain in the jaws, which I
was removed after only two appliations of St. I
Jacobs Oil.
“ (Signed) E. A. Pereira,
“Head Inspector of Post-Offices.’
ACCEPTED BY THE FACULTY.
It will be observed that the above testimonial
derives an additional value to the great majority
that have been published, from the fact of the
medical officers of that institution having so far
recognised the merit of St. Jacobs Oil as to re com-
mend its use by a patient under their care. This,
however, is not the only instance of the “faculty ”
having overcome proverbial prejudice.
FURTHER AFIELD. ,
Leaving Calcutta and coming nearer home, we
may take a peep at a pretty little city in the
Britain of the South, as some people call it. The
writer refers to Christchurch, New Zealand. There
are many old residents of New Zealand now
located here, and, apart from what is known in
that colony as provincial jealousy —a feeling
which, the writer believes, is fast dying out —those
New'Zealanders will ready admit
THE CATHEDRAL CITY
to be one of the prettiest of the towns in the two
islands. It was a Church of England settlement
originally, and has remained very English—very
much “Church of England”—and just a little
slow-going and Conservative, perhaps, ever since.
It has an extensive back country, and the output
of grain and wool from the port (Lyttelton) each
year is very extensive. Here, in this city, some
time since, one of those useful exhibitions was
held, the building having been erected not far
from the banks of the pretty artesian river, with I
its fringe of weeping willows—the last to shed
their leaves, and the first to don again their deli-
cate garb of green.
THE AVON
is the name of this stream upon which boating
parties enjoy themselves during the milder months
of the year, and which meanders through the
town, and constitutes one of the great attractions
of Christchurch.
Walking though the Exhibition Building during
the latter days of its brief existence the writer
came upon
AN OLD FRIEND,
or rather a somewhat new friend —a friend that
has done much for a great many people in this
world of aches and pains. It was St. Jacobs Oil,
which here also gained the distinction of a gold
medal. Throughout New Zealand the oil has
effected some remarkable cures, and testimonials
to that effect have been freely given by both
Europeans and Maoris—the latter regard it as
magical.
A SHORT RETROSPECT.
But who, it may be asked are the proprietors of
this St. Jacobs Oil that we heard so much about ?
And by way of anticipating such an enquiry, the
writer proceeds at one to state the facts.
The firm is styled the Charles A. Vogeler
Company, and is at present composed of Mr.
Chrisian Devries (President of the National Bank
of Baltimore), Mrs. M. A. Vogeler (widow of the
late Mr. C. A. Vogeler), and Mr. H. D. Umstaetter
(a journalist of high repute, and the author of some
well-known humorous works).
The offices and works of the firm are located at
Nos. 184, 186, and 188, W. Lombard-street, Balti-
more ; and over 600 hands are employed on the
premises, including the largest printing office in
the State, regularly engaged in producing the
“ St. Jacobs Oil Family Calendar, and Book of
Health and Humour."
ANDREW BERGLAND.
Above is a portrait of Andrew Bergland, the bravo sailor
who, at the disastrous wreck of the Ly-ee-Moon, so gallantly
saved the life of the boy Adams. Bergland, who is a man of
splendid physique and only 26 years of age, is now actively
practising as a sculler, and bids fair to become one of the
champions of Australia at no distant date. Elias Laycock,
who has watched his practice, is reported to have said that
he would give £5OOO to have his strength and chances.
Miss Blanche : “Wouldn’t you say, Mr. Bow-
string, that Mr. Highnote has a falsetto voice?’
Mr. Bowstring: “Well, I don’t know, Miss
Blanche, as I should say quite that; but I know
that he has a false set o’ teeth, and does not wear
one of those beautiful and stylish £3 3s. suits, to
measure, cut by one of the eight high-class cutters
employed by Summerfield and Company, the great
juvenile outfitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
BEFORE AND AFTER.
“Will you have a plate of Icecream, dear?” he asked. “ No,
thank you, I never eat cream in the winter,” she sweetly re-
plied “ Well, do try a dish of those delicious Oysters, won’t,
you, pet,” he continued. “ No, Alfred, they are so dear,”
“I thought I was the only thing that was dear.” “Oh,
Alfred, I must go home.” “lam so sorry,” he said. “ Oh,
pet I know what you want. Let me order a bottle of that
famous St. Louis Lager Beer?” Her Beautiful blue eyes
lighted up. Just a tint of crimson appeared upon her lovely
face. When she could breath easy, she said, “Oh, Alfred
do.”
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
CALLED BACK.
The busy throng in Pitt-street is called back to
gaze with wonder at the beautiful display of Spring
goods in the windows of Summerfield and Company.
The well-known excellence of our boys’ clothing,
the pretty designs and moderate prices need no
comment. For big boys and youths, we are show-
ing a very superior line of long trousers suits at
18s. 6d. and 21s. Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Good Remedy for a Cold.—On going to bed
take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in
water or camphor mixture. The diaphoretic action
of this excellent remedy speedily produces a
general glow, followed by a free perspiration, dur-
ing which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is
obtained, and on waking in the morning the cold
will be found to have dissapeared. The certainty
of the action of Freeman’s Chlorodyne is very re-
markable in Ague; it frequently prevents an
attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Free-
man’s Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use
of Quinine, and in the tea gardens of India noth-
ing else is given for Ague and other forms of Fever.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Wine I—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
IN THE PAST THIRTY YEARS
There have been many remedies advertised for the cure of
kidney and liver troubles and diseases of the urinary organs.
Of only one can it be said “It is never known to fail.” That
one is Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters.
Said he: “ I’ve been married thirty years and
have never given my wife one cross word.”
“ That’s because you never dared to, uncle,” said
a little nephew; “if you had auntie would have
made you hop.” Silence fell upon the circle, until
the red-headed servant girl came in and remarked
that the boy had better put on his new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit that had just arrived from
Summerfield and Company, the Great Juvenile
Out fitters 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
deoorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney. *
The Queen’s visit to the Colonial Exhibition
had curious results. Society flocked to the shew
and the throng of beautiful women of the highest
rank was unprecedented since the earlier part of
Her Majesty’s reign. The ladies’ dresses were an
exhibition of themselves, and the swell operators
among the London cut-purses made a field-day
The Duchess of Westminster had a jewelled watch-
chain, worth two hundred guineas, neatly cub
away with pincers, and Lady Dudley lost a neckletr
and locket, valued at three hundred and seventy-
five guineas for the gold and gems alone. As a
work of art and a family jewel the locket was
priceless. The Hon. Mrs. Cholmondely had a
jewelled bracelet actually stolen from her arm in
the pressure, and a most audacious attempt was
made to snatch a diamond earring from the ear
of the Countess of Exeter by a person who dis-
appeared in the crowd. Not any of the stolen
jewels have been recovered, despite the utmost
exertions of the police. The Marchioness of Ely
also lost a most exquisite necklet and locket, the
beauty of which had but a few minutes before
been commented on by the Princess Beatrice in
the private retiring rooms of the royal party ; and
Lady Rosebery had a massive albert chain snipped
clean away from her watch. In these last two
instance, however, London Society is laughing at*
the expense of the thieves. It appears that a
great number of the leaders of fashion in England
warned by past losses, do not wear their family
jewels on public occasions, or when shopping
They take the precaution to wear jewellery which
is indistinguishable from sterling gold and real
gems, but which, despite its beauty and lasting
quality,! 3 com aratively costless. This is kncwn
as Oriental Gold, which is made in all the most
delicate and beautiful designs, and can therefore
be worn with impunity by the highest ladies In
the case of Lady Rosebery and the Marchioness
of Ely it was these goods which deceived even tiro
practised eye of the cleverest London swell mobs-
men, and which had called forth the encomiums of
the Princess Beatrice. This curious incident has
occasioned quite a sensation in London, and has
created an extraordinary demand for these oriental
gold articles of jewellery. The manufacturers
have a branch in Sydney at 474, George-street,
opposite the Markets, so that Sydney ladies need
not be out of the fashion.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Willi a mson, Darner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
Of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Charming Fairy Opera,
lOLANTHE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1886.
Magnificent production (for the first time in New
South Wales) of Edward Solomon’s Opera,
BILLEE TAYLOR.
Musical Director, Mr. Alfred Cellier.
Prices—Dress Circle, os. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily from
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE HOME OF MIRTH AND FUN.
Astounding Applause Greets
OUR CIRCLE OF LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
EVERY EVENING,
in their Ballads, Comic Songs, and Comic Sayings.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 2s. ; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
J. TURNER, ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPKING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the enact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timato use has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. Tlie Oriental Gold Co.,
of 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Gold-
Brooches, Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant ) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, is. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
PlainSs., Jewelled,7s,6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
Ilg-ffe send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD GO.,
474 George-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1883.
WE have again much pleasure in addressing
our customers and the public. The rapid
expansion of our business, and the repeated orders
we receive from customers who dealt with us as
far back as 1882, are gratifying proofs that our
Goods and our method of doing business give
satisfaction.
We continue the same system. We buy direct
from the makers in London, Paris, and New York
all such Goods, Watches, &c., as are not the pro-
duct of our Company’s own works. We add a
fair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CASH,
thus avoiding bad debts, and steering clear of the
evil system of charging rates which compel paying
customers to make good the default of bad marks
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTI M.
The full value must accompany any order, or no attention
will be paid to it. Payment can be made by Postage Stamps
of any Australian colony up to £1 worth, by Cheque or uy
P. O. 0., payable to the Oriental Gold Co.
The Goods ordered will be sent at once. If they a'j not
approved they may be returned per first post after delivery
uninjured, and we will, according to the wish of the customer,
either substitute another article to same value, or
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN PULL
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charges.
Thus: Suppose you want a Brooch—you describe, as nearly
as possible, the sort of pattern you prefer, or you leave the
choice entirely to us, and you remit, say 10s.
We endeavour to match your description, if sent, or n any
case we do our best to please and satisfy you.
On receiving the Brooch, or other article, if you don t entirely
like the pattern or style, write by first mail explaining m tt’has
respect you would like it to differ—returning the Rrooci in
the same good order as you received it —thereupon we win
try again, and send a second one to same value.
Or, if you don’t like the first Brooch at all, and want your
money back, we will send back the full sum, less the posrar
outlay incurred.
We make this pledge in all seriousness, although with
something of a light heart; because, although we have iui>.
thousands of orders by post on same terms, diu/vag i«
four years we have been in business at our present address
474 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
£3* WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE SINGLE
ARTICLE RETURNED!
Customers will save themselves a good deal of trouble, w
ley desire to have a choice among numerous pattern
rdering a sample parcel and sending on the money tors
fe then send a variety, each article of which is inarMa
s prioe, and the customer selects one or more articles _
(turns the reßt, whereupon we send back the balance oi
loney by next post.


AT.Ti THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
ik 4!
2 7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
1
mm
a
m
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
mm &co.
27 YORK fSTREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
GLOOK
A red signal means stop, especially when
it hangs on a man’s nose.
Dr. : “I will leave you this medicine to
take after each meal.” Mike : “ And will yez be
koind enough to leave the meal too, docthor! ”
A genteel family, says a servant who has
been there, is one where they keep a carriage,
have three or four kinds of wine, and never pay a
bill the first time it is called for.
Furniture dealer: “Can’t I sell you a
nice strong rocking-chair, ma’am ? ” Lady (good
naturedly) : “Not just now, sir. My girls are
not yet old enough to have company.”
Mrs. A. went into the kitchen one morn-
ing and informed Bridget that Mr. Thompson, a
neighbour, had committed suicide. Bridget
looked at her with an expression of mingled as-
tonishment and disgust, and said: “ Oh-h-h,
mum, has he ? Wid who ?”
An Irishman, somewhat disguised in liquor,
was shouting in Edinburgh, “Three cheers for
Home Rule ! ” A Scotchman shouted in answer,
“Three cheers for Hell.” “ You are right,” said
the Irishman, “ everyone should stick up for his
own country.”
Last week, Mr. Marsh, S.M., of Sydney,
in sentencing to four months’ imprisonment a man
convicted of indecency, told prisoner that he had
narrowly escaped being flogged : “It was his
previous good character alone which stood him in
good stead, and saved him an ignominy which,
had he been subjected to it, might have driven him
to perdition.” The Bulletin recognises in this
magisterial utterance a sign of progress. A res-
pected magistrate has publicly stated that the
lash is an ignominy calculated to drive to
perdition the man who receives it. Up to the
present moment flogging has been airily dispensed
in the civilised colony of N.S.W. as though it
were whisky and seltzer, or ham sandwiches, or
holy water. But, anyhow, N.S.W. is getting rid
of convictism by degrees, and will he quit of it en-
tirely when the last of the old fogies now in
authority is shot into the dustheap. Four years
ago they tied up and brutally flogged a man with
ten years’ good character, who had unconsciously
done an act of indecency while drunk. To-day,
however willing they may be to act otherwise,
they are restrained by the growing force of public
opinion from going through the hideously unmean-
ing atrocity of lashing a depraved creature with
probably a diseased brain, even though that crea-
ture has been found guilty on what seems to be
conclusive evidence of an act which, in the opinion
of the magistrates, justifies them in sending him
to gaol for four months.
1> 0Y A L STANDARD THEATRE
Jl V Castlereagh-Street.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager... ... Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS EVENING,
First production of the Tragedy, in 5 Acts, entitled
. FAUST FAUST FAUST,
founded on GOETHE’S wondrous Tragedy.
AN ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION accorded to
Mr. DAMPIER Miss LILY DAMPIER
and the popular Company of Australian Artistes.
]YNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS.
J (Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
SYDNEY ARRANGEMENTS :
Forester’s Hall, St. Peters—Thursday, 7th Oct.
School of Arts, Botany—Friday, Bth October.
Manly—Mon., 10th Oct. Redfern —Tuesday, 11th
Glebe—Wednesday. Hunters Hill—Thursday.
Rand wick—(return visit) —Friday.
UiDOLPHO 'WOLFES SON>C°
rd
CS
V|oL*=E
17CRE
%
////Atfz/a.
K X//
tot
a 7LC/ /c
r //yxr/
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OP WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON
f |'*-HE above Hall is now the most completely -
1 furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane, The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding's Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms—Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
{AT J. HOLLOWAY
W • and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
A Ring of Iron," “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
‘Much Ado About Nothing,” “ As You Like It,”
See,
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
j > M . RILEY
‘ (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
.•ontidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
carriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Cents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
nthe Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Sew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
• lube. he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
vieuiti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
r:r»i t y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
ia the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children's Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
fe)
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing eoughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is- 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmacytical Chimist,
631 George-strait only.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 28, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
Cataract River, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Extension of Gosford Wharf at
Brisbane Water
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office at Wagga Wagga
Supply of One Van for Travell-
ing Gas Supply
Supply of One Truck for Travel-
ling Gas Supply
Supply of Two Steel Gas Holders
Erection of Gatehouse, Parra-
matta-road Crossing on Home-
bush-Waratah Railway
Supply of Kerosene Shale re-
quiredby Railway Department
during 1887
Tuesday,
October 12,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Contract 1, Bourke
Water Supply
Construction of Settling Reser-
voirs, Boiler-house, &c., Con-
tract 2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipes, Valves, &c.,
Contract 3, ditto ditto ditto
Supply and Erection of Engines,
Boiler, &c., Contract 4, ditto
ditto ditto
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Court-house Camp-
belltown
Repairs, Courthouse, Merriwa
Tuesday,
November 2,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited). „
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling. !|
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling. ] ■ j
SYDNEY WIM J niri
BANKING PREMISES. .. ~ j
Head Office: ' “ 3
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED, jj j
and interest allowed.: 1
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent. ’ i 11 1 m
j 6 Months, 8 Per Cent. Uu,
12 Months, 8| Per Cent. ?
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY. G
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flonr,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
0
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
ffli -■
o f M
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALGHIN, JOHNSTON & GO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
auEEMCIIiTE
Prepared, from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets,
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills : and Suva, Fiji
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
JJOLLO WAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of the LIVER
and STOMACH, they may be used with perfect confidence
by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is a guarantee
of their efficacy. Thousands of testimonials, from princes to
peasants, attest their marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st., London!
HSW Purchasers should look to the label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious. -


Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country are sitlier directly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases arc on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &c., are among the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no symptoms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, EE HON & CO, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales and Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At tlic Exceedingly Low Price of JCS 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
‘ THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 4 in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patchei Naft pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 2GB and 266 PITT STREET.
a
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
t 9
HATS CAPS it
438 C~EORCE ST
•SYDNEY J
f/yooufe l>atsettcj£_
)
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
E
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
O and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. ‘For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
* 61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
flight refreshments,
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the "Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FIIESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables ... Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
Kg’ THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow.lnterest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
df
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder ; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
Ph D., F.C.S., &o. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now be also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—El LiOT Bros.
E, Prosser & Co., Sydney.
sd
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.—If you feel
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and withal
truthful photograph of yourself,
accept what is hut well-meant
counsel, and at once pay a visit
to the vestibule leading to Gal-
leries in Sydney Arcade. There
you can inspect a choice collec-
tion of portraiture (the every-day
work of Creelman and Co.) the
excellence of which, we venture
to say, ought at once to determine
your choice in their favour, and
take away all doubt as to the
proper place to go to.
l’rlces: C.-D.-Y., 155.; Cabinets, 30s.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, Sydney Arcade.
W JDH N S O N',
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN AIL ITS BUANGHES.
C. H. SMITH & SO n',
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
Z Cabuijets
taken ft
on
3
p/5
78
yM
ROlzW/11/amS t
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary :
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory • • - Waverley.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
UMBR
LLAS
•-*
rftCOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Anything yon require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forvrarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. I‘INNES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
V SHOULD Y USE } PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
TLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Millreplete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 GBQBQs-sifißax, Sydney,
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6. 12/6. 17/6, XI/, X 5/, 80/,
46/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 30~
o
o=o
AUDORDEONS SgftSRJZ&KU'fi
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-,
10/8.15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to «20.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS
at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 130/-
to as is.
Specialities: The now “ Levy " model,
with water key £5 5 0
,i Thcncw '’Reyiiulda" model
with double water key... 0 10
The new “Itoynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 1? 10
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/-
V-
THE SYMPHONETTE
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The "* Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
42T Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionet?, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
r WORTH OF f? 1
JjO MUSIC FOR
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manage*


RAW YASELIKE.
m
'VS
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, andj all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, See.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
**V v *V i
O'
cy
&
\m;
(#'
° a 6^^
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
BP?holVs }
fCONFEC
HOIESAIC MANUFACTURI
ONFECTIONER
4ZoGtvrgesr<.
SYDNEY
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near IRBK»ne ST
*lo*2 A £aJU* o*i'4a**4,a***>*H*A
TP QROff^ -f* yj
wrrtHC^Ompots
m
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DAMS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I
u
p
H
0
R
B
<r<XG^
Q u^^^GUß£Feß
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
■! & *tl „_. PREPARED ONLV BY QV,
|Lft'||d^T H om a s Ingham f
: ''.ty 'J R o c k h a m p ton, i-
fs
9p
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
r fragrance.
Three Goed Metals—
PA1115,1678; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfunjfs
FAGR-35A & CY-MBIDITJM
are of rare and peculiar tragrance, ana Being
registered can be obtained onl> of the
° inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S
odour/ It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally tine periume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers
1 J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
„ Trade Mark-“'White Rose" 011“ Golden .
Lyre.”
'IHIUIJy/
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
[Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, See.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 little Collins-street, last, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures
We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all classes of Furniture, Crockery
Glassware, E.P. Ware, Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &c.
Also,
OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OF BEDSTEADS,
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES,
cm—mi Mmcim rat ufcjiit c
ii &
AT
IWONDERFU]
§ PRICES.
THE £2 15s. BRASS MOUNTED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS, FULL SIZE,
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
Will! EXTEND
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
DO VAT. FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
/A
Y v r/?//, w
«■ w
a
asr.
\'y
\
ru
>
feV
« «
x 7
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you proak my glass, too. Yell, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Blass Insurance Co.
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital .... £25,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
S Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &c., of all
descriptions covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING!
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE ST REE"
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLERS.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw —three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Begs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers'
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A ehoice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen's
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD lIILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. &3T Trice List on application.
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Margaret-street, Wynward square, Si drey l
£lO,OOO. £10,000.—“BARB’S” GRAND CON-
SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows :—The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards.—Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address —
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh - st., Sydney.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
V?
,lV
-4
o
o
a
r s y
a’ 1 ' o ts
nZZB KSDUft^
m fcy SHITE EE&LEHS, SEOCERS t&d BffJ&CISTt
m
1 HAtITHAWATC
lID lELUBLE
Feerloss
Gloss.
I necassify ia ivory
family. It blacks and
pclishas Ladias* and
Children’s Bools,
Shoes, Butters and
Satchels, with out
brushing. llway!
gives satisfaction.
BOSTON, 1869.
VIENNA.
PHII~A*» 487^
Is CG&CBdsd t 3 B 9
1878.. THE sTiIQABD.* 9
G. L.HAUTHAWAY&SONS,
zn ft 233 Congress Street. Costa*
MASS.. UJ3.JI
r
T
HE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may he taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
110 Kent-street.
BO' KS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
2P AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
0,UUU Books always on view at
WILLIAM BYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post-free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
LE 8
MANUFACTURING HATTERSP
GEORGE STREET
S YDNEY
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
H 3 AV
3flAi.il
—
Dr. E. G. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Veuetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
ail druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W,
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. pirbox in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headacne,
Mumps, Ilip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONIO.


“ Sir Graham Berry, in one of his recent New Hebri-
dean interviews with Mr. Stanhope, Secretary of State
for the Colonies, boldly stated that Australia was per-
fectly astounded at the insults and humiliation to which
Great Britain had calmly submitted at the hands of
a °
France* -London Correspondent of Daily Paper.
Weeping at His Humiliation.
JOHN BULL: “WELL, MISTER, WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH YOU?
SIR G. B: “BOOH-OOH-OOH! I CAN’T HELP WEEPING AT YOUR HUMILIATION."


Ki
bENTOt
isALicnru
GsXdV/q)^
exquisH e\
*BY THE PROPR/E TOR,
TOOTHPASTL
UjJriV/lled 90/{ itspfa septic
ft Rd CL£Af/S!//0 PROPERTIES.
T B.MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 W/11/am 3T ; SYDNEY.
\WS-
SK?
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH
TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
H
effectually destroy^
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS^
FLEAS, FU ES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES, AND iH
AT THE SAME TIME QUI'nHHB
I
dfsdfs
SOLDI
PbyAU. CHEMISTS
WO STOREKEEPERS.
wholesale
FELTON* GRIM WADEV-C®
- MELBOURNE _ i
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
DSONS
L\\
mm
FOR RENEWING PICTURE FRAMES, <fco.,
FOR ARTISTIC DECORATION.
1/6 & 3/@ per bottle. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, i... .
I DANIEL JUDSON & SON i LIMITED j, London ui.n .. >v V.. .
HENRY LANCASTER,
SALYIWittP -di
Ho/r/v ir//v
%£
~s./RON
*W» VAR 73
WAT
hiinini
J *»MCTIO
” «UTHR
INDER
though
STOOH6 iron Ttfluc
%
fits
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
price lists furnished on application.
65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, [near
Station.
organs
THE
SOLE AGENTS
I oil
SMITH
BRUCE & MASSEY,
IFI-AOSTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
aham s pills,
great liter remedy.
j> a f?' 01 *! Dandelion, and free from the
° “ercury or mineral substance,
m edioine of the nineteenth cen-
J? le > yet most effective ; they can be
{JV&i’fepn being a carefully pre-
Th° n - and tll e result of practical ex-
°*th overcome the worst form of
t 0 Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
He re j. “ear that they have not affonded
LEORGE street.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRACK MARK— *' TONIC NERVINE.”
A HAKK, CERTAIN, and SPKBDY CURE for Norrwia
uwl General Debility, and till ooiuiilaitits that, upriog from
i»ah of norv* force, »h Neuralgia, Toothache, Norvouiutum
ndigoHtioti, Tiosx of Appetite, Female Disorders, l.iyer and
Cldney Complaint*, General Pruatratioa, Impi.veimJjtsl Blood,
’reinature Decline, Lorn of Vital Power, to. By Its touts'
nil soothing ctl'enta it at once removes all crating for
Alcohol, Ry its ricluiea* in phosphorous and other powerful
itarising elements, A I.l/H TONIC NERVI NK nour-
*ho« artil gives vigor to die whole system. Price la. Cd.
Sold everywhere. MAUSHAI.L BROTHERS, Sydney.
N.8.W.: lioridou, Eng,
TA»2k NO SUBSTITUTE.
CINAI
OR
Baking
°f/}>
&
ano *a" o*ur
OBTAIN ED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
. ' O-R !
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
*KINC?V*J>
ISTHEB ESTIN TH E WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT *
§ WAUG H 3 ; r -,|
RC.‘.t!V to THE \ NTERN ATI ON AL
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Syoniit
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTEETH
-b
Completes FT
i
.3
MARSHALL BRO*
DENTISTS
133 ELI 2 ABETH ST
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
_ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
f " ,M 534 GEORGE STREET,
I ' Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
tST Country'Orders receive prompt attention.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H. M.) ,THEj ( KING J( ON,;THE NETHERLANDS.
II!
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
|pwv? (ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
D R RIDGE S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced int<> the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
COITFEOTION'EBS J I
506, 507, 507 i GEORGE STREET,
AW Every article in the trade. Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in J and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note.— Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
0
ort
O
CTi
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican ‘‘Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Stdnet.
m
•**3m3s
•/a*?
Photographing niggers is the highest kind of fun,
There’s money in it, too, if it’s only rightly done—
A lens that’s good, an eye that's quick, no dirt, or dust, or flutter,
A choice of rapid plates and a Lichtner’s lightning shutter.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the untrner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, [Catalogues.
AND AT 36 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “ BOOKS."
& ROBERTSON,
11!} MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent by
mail tp any part of Australia.


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER. JEWELLER & OPTICIAN
14
BOURKE STREET, \
MELBOURNE. J
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEARLY OPPOSITE THE
POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable time
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 gmnens. A. select stock of Gfold nnd Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION. -
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRYS MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTKR.”-Lan,cet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pigc and. Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersxnithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,^TAND9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. -A.. Pay dz Co., Cl2a.cim.:n.a,ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Pricks.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
■O A. ■BTTT’KT
J=ra dww« ■JLbhl mmm hmJLvimmviJL■JarSl
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country, friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines*
and'Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and Uy charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTO, SHERRIES, OLAEBTS, and CHAMPAGNE, at. the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
tit A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, nil returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purehasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY ~ 3 Bottles WHISKY 1 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
l Bottle PORT WINE . 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th ! Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALK*S/HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and" Single Bobtle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
ISTZEJW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
C. R. YOUNG’S Wm
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
GULGONQ.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
LEA&PERRI NS'SAUCE
r*Auz
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERS
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and T e _ .
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original’ WOR C
SAUCE is genuine. .
Ask for LEA: and PERRINS’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, 0i
Stopper. Wholesale' and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;
Blackwell, London, (Pc. , E’c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen the rr° <r^
Wt slesale.Agents: Montefiork,| Joseph &JCo.; David Cohen & Co., Sydß o^*^.
■<
m
s
» __ v
fo( >T?
<£•
WShoe BAzmj
252 a Gecrjfe £
Lctle jPeajCe turtcL flarceuxt/.
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
t
NEXT TO ROYAL ;HOTBL, and at 652 'aEORGE gT* l
J. MURPHY’S ereosM
CENTRAL LOAN AND
OFFICES, , jf*
"CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
win ;t.: :v per month. : 4 MIM -31
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, fClothing,
and every description of r Portable Property,
granted at Hates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
D. MITCHELL GO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
■■•"-rr-- ’M jfo-
STOREY, NOBLE *
%, AUCTIONEER^.
General Commission ASp*’
CORAKI, RICIOtOND
Try POGONO^^d
' * OH T T]Vf^
MUSICAL INSTHL-' 1
LI
The Largest Assortment **
705 GEOBQE STR^
Send for Price
JIHK CLIMAX OF P#
MONTSERB^',#
LIME FRUIT JUICE S
SOLD EVERyWH®*^,
‘ T. FODENjU
INDIA RUBBER R rf)
20 ERSKINE STB •'
Sydney, _ n c
For Every DescnP ' )O po-,
INDIA rubbEßy^®!*
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vig° r
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 and 331! HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded |the ONLY GOLDpIEDAL for Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Ue.lal for Liqueurs,
Bitters,
