

BULLETIN EXTRAORDINARY.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1886.
Price—One Penny.
The Mount Rennie Executions
AN APPEAL FOR MERCY.
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
Your Excellency has seemed to us in this
matter as one beset with a great crowd
urging one demand- —hang, hang and slay
and we conceive that you might desire to
put the clamour aside for one moment and
listen to a calm and reasoning voice which de-
sires mercy and is preparedto show cause why
mercy should be granted. We would direct
your Excellency’s attention, in the first place,
to the reasons given for the retention in our
code of the death penalty for the offence
of rape. It was as a measure of protection
for the helpless women of the bush for
shepherds’ and settlers’ wives and daughters
in remote and sparsely-populated districts —
between whom and an unwatched ruffianism
it was deemed necessary to set up the barrier
of the gallows. For the protection, in short,
of helpless, honest, self-respecting women,
and in no sense for the avenging of wantons
or of harlots. This fact should be recog-
nised as a foundation of argument. And
upon it comes instantly the question—What
is the nature and what are the circumstances
of this crime ? Was this the lonely, unpro-
tected, unyielding, fiercely but vainly pro-
testing woman, or some variety of that other
creature for whose special protection we
should hardly have cared to make ourselves
shamefully exceptional amongst all the na-
tions of the world ?
* * *
Will your Excellency consider this : You
have all the evidence, the full sworn state-
ments in your hands, and we have no desire
to make a gross publication of the shame of
an erring girl. We think that a careful re-
gard of this point only should convince you
that you would be more in accord with the
spirit of the law in sparing than in taking
life • but we will pass from the law to its
administration—we will ask your Excellency
to glance at the proceedings in the court—
the week-long trial, the eighteen-hour sit-
tings of the concluding days, the apparent
eagerness of the Judge in urging the matter
to the final issue, the weariness of the
jurors, the futile defence of some of the un-
paid junior counsel assigned to the prisoners.
Does it all seem the calm, deliberate majesty
of British law anxious only for truth as the
foundation of justice, or the eager justifying
of a fully-formed opinion ? If it appears to
your Excellency that there was any denial of
merciful opportunity to any of the prisoners
during that trial it will surely be your duty
to spare them the extreme penalty their con-
viction entails.
* * *
But this is a minor point, and only to be
taken as a make-weight with other and larger
reasons. It is your Excellency’s function
to give effect to the verdict of the
C ouro rather than to look into the
manner iu which that verdict was
obtained. Ana what is the full verdict ?
Not the “guilty,” which unlocked all the
old-time vengeance of our present code, but
“guilty of the offence, yet recommended to
mercy.” And how long has it been the
habit of British courts to stultify and curtail
the functions of the jury, as has been done
in this case, and what will the certain result
be if such a course is tolerated and folio-wed ?
We could point out to you cases on the re-
cords of our courts where juries certainly
have returned inadequate verdicts, fearing
that the recommendations which would
accompany the due deliverance might be
ignored, and we can tell your Excellency
that there are tens of thousands of men in
the city to-day who would deem it not a
pardonable offence, but a high and sacred
duty, to stand, despite their oaths, between
a prisoner and such a travesty of justice as
we have recently been shocked to see. It is
your Excellency’s high and peculiar mission
to guard the very founts of justice by action
here, and when such a need is shown ive
hold that action cannot be withheld. Your
Excellency will not disregard that recom-
mendation, for, past judge and responsible
advisers, to you it must directly come and
knock at the door of your heart and under-
standing and must be taken in. ,
* * *
Your Excellency personally and alone is
the final court in this matter, and how has
the case reached you ? ' Branded with an
appeal for severity by the judge, it is most
true, but stamped also with the merciful
recommendation of the jury, and how en-
dorsed by ‘your responsible advisers ? We
will ask you was there any unanimity in that
solemn conclave, or did not three at least
dissent, and in no vague or doubtful terms ?
And were not the members of that Council
practically a jury charged with the awful
question—shall we take life or spare it ? is it
not one of the deepest underlying principles
of British law, your Excellency, that convic-
tion shall only follow the unanimous consent
of a jury ? And yet shall the Executive
hang when unanimity among its members is
utterly lacking ?
* * *
It is well known in the city that there -was
dissent in the Council, and remember, we
beseech you, how strongly, how terribly,
how cruelly, and, as it seems to us, how im-
pertinently were the members of that
Council menaced by the daily newspapers
of Sydney, who, with one accord, led a
popular, unreasoning clamour for these lads'
blood. Your advisers were not left, as you
happily stand, free to calmly do the thing
that is right, conscious that no possible
penalty or loss can follow any action, but
the hand of a virulent Opposition was ac-
tually on their throats, and they were
thoroughly assured that the act of mercy
would by a powerful Opposition be laid as a
chief sin to their account. Your Excellency
may, if you will, inform yourself that this
thing is of no unfrequent occurrence, that
upon recent occasions the fate of Ministers
has depended on their manner of dealing
with great criminals, and from the unfor-
tunate tone and temper of the Opposition of
the present you may judge what undesirable
and, improper influences have been felt. But
to you a calm and unbiassed judgment is
happily possiole, and instructed by full in-
formation, we beg of you to give that judg-
ment effect.
* * *
We deem that we have already set forth
sufficient grounds of reason for a merciful
decision, and so doing have left untouched
the broad field of sentiment. We could if
we desired but to unseal a fount of unreason-
ing pity, point to the extreme youth of the
prisoners. They are boys, your Excellency.
When you were of their years your school
experience had hardly closed ; you were
fenced by all the care and control the most
elaborate social system of the world has de-
vised for the guidance of youth. These
boys were surrounded on every side by
temptations and opportunities of evil. The
society which would hang them now was at
no pains to protect them from the full de-
velopment of their own vice. The danger
was known, the shame which we now desire
to wash away with blood is of no new birth.
Three years ago, when Mount Carmel was a
name of horror in the community, the pen
which now addresses you was found advocat-
ing the employment of an armed and mounted
patrol for all those wilderness places
which surround the city, and it was
universally admitted that such a patrol
would have rendered similar outrage practi-
cally impossible ; but out of parsimony
or meanness we neglected such precaution,
and doing so are not, as a community, guilt-
less of any responsibility for this great crime.
We might have spared ourselves the shame,
we can certainly protect ourselves against
its repetition, and without any assistance of
the gallows, for if the object be only to strike
terror into brutal minds, the knowledge that
an armed and mounted man is near will be
of far more effect than the possibility of the
gallows a long way off.
* * *
We shall neither save nor purge ourselves
by this hanging, and what great crime, what
awful results, demand such unprecedented
vengeance ? An attainted woman has been
brutally used. Partially yielding, she was
beset by a troup of satyrs, and endured fear-
ful usage, bub she is recovered. She is now
not much worse a woman than before,
in that her virtue had been blemished before
this crime. No murder of life or of virtue has
been attempted or done, and, your Excel-
lency, is it not a logical and unassailable posi-
tion that death punishment should only fol-
low the taking of life. or of that which is of
equal or higher value, woman’s honour ? We
pray your Excellency to consider all this, and
if you cannot bring yourself instantly to
commute the sentences, we would ask you to
postpone the executions for three or six
months, being most thoroughly assured that
the impetuous mood which now, doubtless,
dominates a large section of the community
will soon have passed, and that the general
voice will assure you that Mercy is best.
* * *
Then, as a last appeal, one purely of sen-
timent, may we ask is it desirable to
mark the last day of the first week
of the Jubilee Year of the Majesty you
represent by an act of vengeance which will
shock the world, and degrade not the Aus-
tralian only, but the whole British race ?
Truly, when the matter is thoughtfully re-
garded, all things seem to conspire together
to demand mercy, and when mercy does not
bar the road of adequate punishment and
full future protection it should surely be
granted.
TO WOMEN.
Right upon the surface lie a thousand all-
satisfying reasons why the ordinary woman,
should not join in this appeal. It is indeli-
cate, unpleasant ; the sort of thing in which,
a woman should not meddle—thus a natural
repugnance makes first protest. And then,
is it woman’s work to stand between a
wronged sister and the terrible avenging of
her wrong ? Is it woman’s duty to appeal
for those who had no slightest mercy for
woman, or to thrust away that shield which
the law provides against foes possessed of
the lust of satyrs, the cruelty of wolves ?
Why, indeed ? Shut your windows and
doors, let the chains clank along the corri-
dor and rattle on the scaffold, the six bodies
fall into the pit, and the rope’s spin tell
the work of strangulation is complete. Ifc
is a fitting punishment, a proper expiation,
a necessary measure of protection.
So your unreasoning. instincts, your
ordinary advisers, have instructed you. But
does not all history show that any women
who have wrought to any effect in any crisis
of the world have begun by resisting com-
mon-place surface instincts and setting aside
ordinary advice ? If womanhood really de-
sires to reach a satisfactory reasoning and
acting ground in this matter, it must rise
from sentiment to principle and fromself-satis-
fying consolation to earnest searching after
living and, it may be, scorching truth.
Sentiment bids you pass the gallows with a
shudder, but the strongest principle of your
nature should compel you to ask and to ascer-
tain why it is raised ? Why ? To punish their
crime and for your protection. Look then
into the crime and realise all its brutality
and abominable filth. Say it merits death,
and by the laws of God and man it should be
punished by death, but will you not make
an effort to reach the true perpetrators—
the authors of the crime ?
* * *
If you begin to obey God’s teaching—an
eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for
a life—will you stop short of the doom pro
nounced against those who “ wrought folly
in Israel ” ? It is very clear if you will seek
it out—“ Then shall ye take them the man
and Hue woman and bear them without the
camp and stone them with stones till they
be dead.” The inspired ruler of the old
Theocracy knew how far back, how deep
down, lay the founts of crime and set him.,
self to seal them. But our social being is
too sick to stand such probing—you, gentle-
natured woman, would be shocked if the
strong hand of God-instructed justice, pass-
ing the Mount Rennie mob and even the
miserable cabman, should take the gentle-
manly, or at least the respectable, seducer
by the throat and say, “ You first to the
gallows ! You were guilty of a viler outrage,
a grosser breach of trust, than any ; you
made the victim fit for the slaughter, you
robbed the wretched girl of her only shield
and sent her to drift down, unprotected and
helpless, to that uncontrolled hurricane of
viciousness in which she was at last over*
whelmed,”
* * *
Gentle-natured woman and commonplace
woman, every woman in the community


would shudder with horror, would redden
with shame, if any general effort should be
made to seize the first and greatest crimi-
nals in these matters, for amongst them
would be found those whom we do not
usually associate with the gallows and the
lash, but with ermine and velvet, with stars
and orders, with monarchs caresses and
bishops’ adulations and prayers. The dogs,
the jackals, who sought to devour the rem-
nants of the feast, we may destroy them with
impunity, but the lion who struck it down
lies right across the track, and w r e make
obeisance to him and pass by on the other
side. Such is the inadequacy, the mean-
ness, the cowardice of the thing administra"
tive authority sets up as Justice and asks
you to approve.
* *
And why ? For your own protection—
“for the protection of the womanhood of
the country,” say the Judge, the jury, the
Executive Council, the flesh-and-blood-
hungry scribes of a press filled with the
writings of clergymen who seem to
have cast aside their Christian mercy with
their cloth. For your protection, mother,
matron, maiden, they will take these six
dead bodies and bind them as a cuirass, a
girdle of charity, about you ; they will make
of the ropes that strangled them a screen
for your virtue, they w r ill set you up in the
eyes of the world with the long-beamed six-
noosed gallows for your arms, the hangman
and dogger as supporters, and the motto,
“In this is my trust.” Is it truth or foulest
libel ? Do you require such protection, or
does all your nature revolt from it in horror
and dismay ? Is your trust indeed in such
things as these, or do you stand, as the
maidenhood, wifehood, womanhood of allnoble
peoples and times, upon that innocence
which is your strength ?
* * *
Fling at least this most degrading and re-
volting charge in the teeth of those who
bring it. Say, make and administer your hang-
man codes in the interests of the prostitute
arid the outcast, but do not talk of protecting
modest womanhood by such means. Woman,
pure and trustful, you know that you are as
safe to-day or to-night in any womanly task
or pleasure as was Godiva in Coventry, or
Florence Nightingale in the Crimean Camps.
You know that you can disarm ruffianism
with a look, and quell the most furious storm
of the unbridled multitude with a word. It is
not from them you need protection. They
are absolutely fangless till “ their betters,”
performing the mission of the Devil’s baptist,
prepare the way.
* * *
But because the lion escapes should the
jackals when taken be spared ? This is the
question which is most difficult to answer,
and yet the most important of all that can
be raised ? And it is a question which
clearest duty commands you to answer, and
aloud, for your silence in' the matter will
certainly be taken as consent. Why hang
them 1 Is their crime held by the broad
aenius of your nation and of the humanity
of the world to merit death ? The answer
is_No. Death for the offence is only in-
flicted by two small communities formed
originally of the felon scum of England.
Hanging them, do you punish the chief
sinner in the matter 1 The answer again is
The original seducer, the man who
struck down the victim, may stand in broad-
cloth beside the gallows while the meaner
and lesser criminals hang. And last, do you
yourselves need protection from such out-
rage 1 Again the answer is No from the un-
polluted lips of every woman in the country
we do not need protection in that
way.” What, then, does it amount to. The
very law that refuses to recognise vice, that
looks askance at the harlot or the fornica-
tress, brands the womanhood and insults the
manhood of the country with this monstrous
deed for her sole protection.
* *
Surely enough is here set forth to form a
reasonable basis for an appeal to woman and
to womanhood, but if it be too much on the
logical and practical side, if it heed too little
the sentiment, the tenderness, the sweet
compassion, which glorify and sanctify all
true-hearted women, let us point for an in-
stant to the shadow of the Gallows falling
over the cradle and the cross of the Christ
whose teaching, “ Forgive that ye may be
forgiven,” should, if his mission be not
utterly dead, be on all lips and on all hearts at
this Christmas time. Surely you may forgive,
for in your innocence you know that you are
neither menaced or wronged. And if the
erring sister’s wrong has indeed touched you,
would you not be doing more for her and such
as her by a little seeking in bye-ways and
hedges, a little careful tendance of those
who are lost, a little care and guidance of
those who are erring ? "Which would be the
more acceptable c tiering to the Christ : the
mortification of your own flesh for the
healing of others or the carrion reeking from
the gallows and red with the marks of your
vengeance'?
* * *
In the name of God and man, of inno-
cence and chastity,, and proper womanly
pride, is this appeal made to the womanhood
of Australia to aid true justice and work
towards the basis of a sound reformation in
this matter. Keep the tetth of the poor
jackals, the mongrel curs, from as-
sailing any other victims, but thrust from
yourselves, and with scorn, that shameful
protection you do not require, and claim for
them that mercy which all the tenderness
and intuitive justice of your natures must
instruct you should be granted.
* * *
You cannot purge the land of all the
guilt of this great crime. The pitiful sifting
process of the law permits all but the dregs
to escape. Had there indeed been a revolt
against the sovereignty of your nonour,
those who propose to avenge you would
have permitted all lords and leaders, spies
and arch-traitors to go free and have
dragged but some few wretched camp-fol.
lowers to the doom. But there is neither
revolt nor assailment, nor menace, nor
danger. Woman standing on the dignity of
her womanhood is safer in any slums of
Sydney to-day than in the recesses of many
homes and home places of those whose lusts
know no mercy, and yet suffer no exposure
because concealed beneath the effective
cloaks of wealth and power. The world has
scented the jackals and the lions dread dis-
covery. Hang, burn, slay the jackals, growl
therefore the lions. The world is shocked
at the full development of the vices which
the best-placed manhood of the colony have
connived at, tolerated, encouraged, enjoyed,
and this respectable well-placed manhood
takes thelast offendersby the throat, andholds
them in the face of unsuspecting woman-
hood, and says “ we must slay them to save
you yet knows right well that it proposes
to murder them to screen its own guilt, or
at least to. offer them as a sacrifice for its
own sins. Truly it is time that womanhood
was awakened, that an appeal was made
which every woman should at least heed.
TO THE CLERGY.
Your Eminence, your Lordships, Right Rever-
end Fathers in God, and sharers generally in the
Divine unction whereby you are consecrated and
set apart to expound to us the teachings of Christ,
what have you to do in this matter 2 Your
Eminence is rumoured to have made a direct
appeal for mercy. That was at least worthy.
The teaching of the New Testament is that the
human race, considered as criminals, have an
advocate with the offended majesty of God,
“even Christ Jesus,” and you following the Great
Exemplar become properly an advocate for these
poor criminals with the small majesty of our
unevenly-administered law. It is somewhat con-
soling to find a high priest of one great church in
this attitude of appeal, as it is sickening and
shameful to find others with their backs to the
Cross and their arms about the Gallows confessing
their own impotence and preaching funeral ser-
mons over living lads.
* *
But, most reverend fathers and teachers, may
we, with all humility, ask what is the main intent
of all your teaching 2 And may we not find a
satisfactory answer after this sort: “ To show
that in keeping the laws of God is all human hap-
piness and safety, and tnafe every great crime
grows and is bred from direct breach of these
laws.” This position seems so clear as to n* ed no
proving. This great crime and shame oome
upon us through neglect and breach of God’ g
plain law of chastity. It is the foulest fruit of the
tree of human lust; the horrid kernel of the
matured fruit whose odour sickens and insults the
world. And what is your duty as teachers and
purifiers —ignoring for a moment your other duty
as advocates for mercy—to lop the thin twigs
bearing the foul fruit or to lay your axes boldly
to the great tree heeding not where its roots
reach or its branches extend 2 You must acknow.
ledge the larger duty, and then—what of its per-
formance ? Let us look into the manner of
yeur performance of this duty, and let us begin
at the baginning, and passing the Cardinal of the
Church of Rome with acknowledgment of his ap-
peal, ask the Anglican Primate of Australia ‘ ‘ why
are you silent or placidly acquiescent in this
matter 2”
* * ■*
Yes, why are you beside the Doomster and not
on your knees at the fount of mercy, begging
with all the earnest eloquence of your undoubted
power, with all the weight of your high office,
that these youths may be spared becauseit is uot
meet that they should die? You may answer,
“It is wholly meet, it is absolutely necessary, the
crime is rank, the punishment must be stern and
repressive.” Such in effect is your reply, but will
you not be so thorough in the matter as to say
that when these vile things are destroyed the tree
itself must come down ? Will you not smite
foulness wherever found ? Have you not done
so ? Indeed you have not. Your Lordship has
stood by the grave-head of a great man who
never spared a woman in his lusts, whose victims
were found in the benevolent asylums and the
brothels of the chy, who died making neither
nor atonement nor decent reraration
to any of his victims, and you had no words but
eulogy, and promise, and assurance of v elcome
to the fie’ds of Asphodel and high place in the
courts of the most pine God Can it be that your
Lordship was ignorant of facts which were for
years notorious in the city, and were well known
to all your own clergy? We must in charity
suppose so much, but does not even such a sup-
positron imply a gross condemnation ? Is it not
a first duty of a physician of souls as of bodies to
acquaint himself with the full extent of the disease
he would cure ? Your Lordship tacitly confesses
the six victims to be so sick with the vile disease
that they roust be put out of the world,
but which is the large mission of the
gospel—to slay, or to save, to purge, or to destroy 2
Can you do nothing in the way of purgation !
Does it not seem to you that these depths of guilt
would never be reached if chastity were main-
tained amongst women? Would you not be
attacking the very power of the evil if you set
yourself strongly against the feminine wanton
however cloaked or crowned, if you put the edge
of the sword of Christ directly against the sin,
if jou bore the truth on high that no social posi-
tion or genius or * ealth could screen or condone
the sin whose ripe fruit and last growth is such
stain and shame as we now endure, and such
vengeance as we contemplate ? \ ou know that
the tree which bears this gallows-fruit strikes its
roots down in all fat soils, waves its branches,
blazons its flowers in all high places, and you
dare not set the axe to the one or the fire to the
other. Only when its natural fruit is found gross
according to the circumstances, and openly cruel
according to the hardness of the natures amongst
which it is bred, you say “ Smite and spare not,
let us cloak our shame with a barbarous severity,
for we cannot we dare not openly and thoroughly
purge it away.” How does it agree with the old
commands, “ Simon Peter feed my lambs, Simon
Peter Peter feed my sheep.” Is not the answer,
“ Nay, Lord, but we will hang them, for it is the
easier way ?
• * *
And not from the bishop on-ly is this awful, this
shan eful, teaching heard. Here is the Reverend
Dr. Steel, representing the Presbyterianism of the
colony, calmly asserting that “ these young men
now under sentence of death and soon to suffer
the extreme penalty of the law, owe their position
to the companionship of bad associates.” Doctor
Steel, have r y our sixty years of honoured life, your
extensive travel, your broad scholarship, taught
you no more th»n that ? Have you been concern-
ing yourself so deeply with abstruse points of doc-
trine, with the darkness of heathendom in remote
islands, that you are indeed so unlettered in the
broad book of human nature? Bad associates!
Are they victims, then, who have been led astray ?
They are, indeed, but not in the way you would
have us suppose. They are the natural result, the
miserable victims of a social system whose sick-
ness you dare not probe. The savage lust which
runs riot in their blood is directly akin to that
which sleeps beneath the broadcloth of
the smug church member, whose income is
augmented by rents of brothels and filthy beer-
shops, whose goat-like tendencies are well enough
known to his factory-girls and lads, but who
dreads no doom from pulpit or bench because his
crimes are all decently cloaked and his outward
show of godliness skilfully advertised. And dare
you begin and end with the hanging of these
youths, by your own confession led astray, who,
mark you, did no murder and wropged no un-
blemished virtue—the results Of whose crime will
be infinitely less disastrous than those of the
cloaked seduction or the brothel, and rum shop
net, prepared by the respectable citizen but spread
by his creatures ? What is your mission in the
world, Doctor ? Is it not to seek and to save that
which is lost, to prevent if possible the ultimate
loss, the eternal damnation ? If you are content
that the hangman should end these lives is it not
in the strong but sad hope that a terrible example
will check the progress of a fearful vice ? You
hang them, do you not, for the protection of the
womanhood, the purification of the girlhood and
youth of this city ? But how many girls or
women are done to death or ruined for life by
larrikins in the scrub, and how many seduced,
betrayed, and flung out to rot, to die, to pollute
with their presence and influence all who approach
them ? Which do you strike with your gallows
and cord—the offence which disgraces you some-
what in the eyes of the world, or the sin which
pollutes you in the sight of God ? These are
hard questions, but they should not be left un-
answered.
* * *
Next comes the most reverend head of all the
Wesleyans of Australasia, Pastor Fletcher, Prin-
cipal of his church, and also of its chief educa-
tional establishment, one who should be familiar
with boys as with men, broadly read in human
nature. The good man has nothing but a nioely-
worded funeral sermon—he does not say a word’
in mitigation of the sentence. Pity should touch
our wrath, he says, like the soft light around the
edge of a thundercloud —by which presumably we
are to understand that the boys should be hanged
as nicely as possible, but, light or no light, the
thunder must burst, the drop must fall —the enor-
mous crime ofeonspiracy to accumulate outrage'
on a woman must be expiated ; and, as we under
stand him, for the protection of unprotected?
womaliood, and for the healing of public morals.
Strange, is it not, that so acute and experienced?
a man misses the all-important fact that
the protection is only required by those who-
have already been betrayed, that this sickness
would never grow but for the presei ce of cast-off
victims of unpunished and uncensured culprits?
Why not place such truths as these before the
boys, for in them is the larger lesson ? And they
are not too deep or too dark for practical ex-
pounding, but under the accepted social order
they might be terribly inconvenient. It is easier
to caution ihe boy how lie starts on the down-
ward path to hell, and to hang the youth who*
drags the well-launched victim down, than to
denounce openly fearlessly the respectable-
ruffian who first thrusts her over the brink
* *
From the brilliant and enterprising pastor of
Pitt-street we have not and did not expect to hear
much in this matter. A sword in the name of
Christ against all corrupters of doctrine ; and the
gallows (whynot?) for all who tarnish so th-? respec-
tability of the community. But is it possible for a
moment and for this single occasion, to induce-
all parties, all teachers, all ministers of Christ,
and professed followers of His footsteps to face
that simple question, that final test : Where
would the Master be found if, re-incarnated, He
dwelt in the city to-day or to-morrow ? In the
pulpit demanding blood, in the columns of the
newspapers giving utterance to elegant platitudes
and vague warnings, in archiepiscopal palaces
silent and afraid or ashamed to speak: or suing,
imploring, demanding mercy, and in the name of
that full ustice, that absolute righteousness
which seems to be amongst the things dead ai d
forgotten in the world ? Answer, all you who
profess to be taught in the sp rit of Christ, and
then remember that this is Christmas time. If
there be any truth in your Gospels, any efficacy
in your doctrine, now while the bells ring and
the carols and anthems are sung, while the Prince
of Peace, the Preacher of Forgiveness, th«
Apostle of Goodwill, is acknowledged in all your
iomes and lauded in all your aisles, the black
seam of the most hideous human vengeance
totally overshadows the Cross, the angel of mercy
and forgiveness is driven from you with scorn,,
and the Hangman is espoused as an only saviour.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
The circumstances out of which this case grew
have never yet been taken into the public mind.
A band of ruffians, a helpless woman, are seen,
and indescribable outrage breeds general horror.
But what are the true beginnings ? How are
these"creatures,'so fierce,filthy,and pitiless, bred?
What peculiar training is responsible for their
vile distinguishing characteristics,? They are
found to be divided into classes —workers and l
non-workers. The workers, are employed in the
various industries of the locality— rope-making,,
wool-washing,or the rougher work of the building-
trades. The non-workers are loafers,’With doubt-
less some little skill in illegal games. And all are
resident in or thoroughly familiar with the
locality of the crime, with the waste scrub lands
about and included in the Lachlan Water Reserve
and the Cooper Estate. Even to those who work
honestly for a living, leisure hours are abundant
and holidays frequent. They are never so weary as
to retire gladly to absolute rest They seek pastime
and the* find it; it is indeed provided for them by
the neglect of painful duty on the part of the
citizens or governors of this state.
* * *
But surely those charged with the Government
of so great a city as Sydney know that there
always have been and always will be some hun-
dreds of women, professionally immoral, minister
ing to the illicit desires of men ; they know also
how in this bad life health and strength decay
with marvellous rapidity, how a handsome young
woman becomes a debauched and degraded hag
in a few short years, offensive to any locality,
driven out of all decent neighbourhoods, thrust
into gaol if caught in any public place, left other-
wise to rot and to die in any possible concealment.
The concealment they seek and find is usually this
scrub. They have camped there for decades past*
and have been hunted there by such larrikin
packs as those who are now in the condemned
cells of Darlinghurst. The youth of the neigh-
bourhood, fully fed, not hardly worked,precocious
lustful, have from their earliest years the oppor-
tunities these hunted-out victims afford before
their eyes, and within their power. It is no
romance to say that boys of twelve have- fre-
quently shared in such orgies, and have become
brutalised by a shocking familiarity with revolt-
ing indecency before they have reached the verge
of manhood.
And who have made these opportunities, who
supplied the training which has worked to such
awful results? Did not well-to-do members of
this community seduce those victims, and so long
as these wretched bodies offered any inducement
to desire, were they not well paid? But who
cared for them when once they passed under the
classification of hags ? They were simply hunted
out then. Their presence must not shock our
delicate sense of modesty. We guarded our own


sensitiveness quite heedless of what work of
temptation and corruption we wrought amongst
©thers.
« •
If society had but decently buried the bones of
its victims, it would have saved countless youths
from pollution, but its mean and paltry shame
prevented even acknowledgment of victims made
It would hide in any way its own guilt, and so it
has aided in the bringing about of its own dis-
grace. And let those who know most of the
nature of even the average English boy say into
what he would develope if, practically unre-
strained from the commencement of his teens, he
were subjected to all the temptations which exist
In that wilderness of city scrub.
* * *
Useless to say he would revolt in horror. What
is the truth about that abominable case of cruelty
which occurred some years ago amongst the
genteel boys of the' Sydney Grammar School?
Had that pack (lacking all the home discipline to
which we must suppose them to have been sub-
jected) run wild in the scrub and discovered a
victim, would they have been more merciful than
to the goat ? Would sensual impulse have been
7 esisted more than the desire to filthy, fiendish
cruelty ?
* * *
There are terrible possibilities in all our
natures, and the answer, “ Is thy servant a dog
that he should do this thing ? ” is not always
satisfactory or final. Remove the opportunities,
see to the provision of a propel refuge for your
own victims, bury your own [hones, and under-
stand the duty which 'all experienced teachers
know of guarding and protecting all youths
from the development of their baser selves.
Further, when warnings have been given, set
such watch and ward that further outrage shall
be impossible. These are the ways of true re-
form. Purge away your own sins at your own
cost, and do not seek to blot them out with the
blood of six victims for whose crime you your-
elves are in a degree responsible. Take the
shock of the great offence as a terrible warning,
not as a summons to vengeance, as an evidence of
disease in the whole social being, not as of
gangrene in a few isolated members which, being
lopped off, will for ever disappear. Reform is
for ever a better word than Vengeance, and if sin
of this sort is to be stamped out it must be by re-
form which may begin in the depths of those
scrub wildernesses, but must be pushed through
to places which for our credit sake, we had
rather leave unnamed.
HYSTERICAL ACTS OF LAW.
In appealirg for the reprieve of the Mount
Rennie criminals, The Bulletin stands alone
among the metropolitan Press. But it does not
follow that The Bulletin is wrong.
principles of Justice are eternal. the six
criminals may be hanged on 7th Januaiy next ■
the New Year’s gift of New South Wales to God
Almighty may be the corpses of six boys;
bht suppose the Governor respited these rniser-
ables for bix months would there then be a news,
paper clamour for their blood ?
The answer is—No !
No act of law should he done which would not
t tan d the test of six m on ths’ consideration.
The would-be assassin, O’Farrell, was hanged
to appease a public agitation. Who, in view of
the evidence which has since come to light, wil 1
deny that O’Farrell, like all his family, was irre.
sponsibly insane? Public feeling was so strong
against O’Farrell that the brilliant Aspinall, his
ounsel, was ostracised by the members of the
Union Club merely because he was about to defend
theaccused. Such aiethedepthstowhichthe people
of Sydney can descend in times of popular excite-
ment.
Yet the public judgment is ultimately sound.
In a month from now, even should none of the
convicts have been proved innocent, the people
will repent of their cry for bleed. Inamonthfrom
now they will he ashamed of their ferocity. But
shame end reientance alike will come too late.
A HYSTERICAL PRESS.
There was but one Sydney daily journal—the
SM. Hekald— which did not loudly call for
blood while the convicts’ case was yet unconsr-
Uered by the court of final review, the Executive
Council.
That Council consists of politicians who, though
sitting in a judicial capacity, cannot, being but
men after all, be expected wholly to divest them-
selves of their political character.
In this limited community, the fate of a
criminal or of a set of criminals, too often be-
comes a national political question-a matter to
be wrangled over alike by designing publicists
who seek to create political difficulties, and by
unscrupulous politicians who would force the
Ministry into a corner.
Thus a general election resulted in New South
Wales from the release of the bushranger
Gardiner. .
Such things could not happen m older countries
where the law is administered without passion,
without emotion. In England, in France, in
America, a criminal’s fate is a purely judicial,
never a quasi-political question.
In the Mount Rennie case, a strong section of
the Press threatened the Ministry with political
extinction should the convicts be reprieved. The
Government, beyond doubt, tried to act conscien-
tously and with the fullest sense of their awful
responsibility, {but they would have been either
more or Jess than human had they been able on
such an occasion to divest themselves absolutely
of the feeling that they were politicians as well as
judges.
When the Scdwalls criminals were convicted
the Executive sat and decided that the men
should hang. Petitions were presented, and the
Council sat again with the same result. Yet more
petitions, and they yielded to political pressure.
The culprits were reprieved. A system under
which this can happen must he radically wrong.
.And so, too, must a system under which the
blocd of men can he publicly clamoured for ere
the final tribunal—a tribunal which in at least all
other matters is and must be strongly susceptible
to political influence—has given its decision.
The Sydney daily press, while the Mount Bennie
case was still before the Executive, raved for
vengeance and touted for the hangman. At a
time when nothing should have heen done to dis-
turb the calmness of'those with whom the fate of
the men finally rested, it published from day to
day fiery articles calling for a terrible vengeance.
That same press which prejudiced the convicts’
case ere they were finally tried refuses, now that
the matter is fairly open to review by the greatest
of all tribunals—the tribunal of Public Opinion—
toj.be the medium of adequate expostulation.
Hence the appearance of this sheet.
PUBLIC OPINION LEAD IN N.S.W.
In New South Wales public opinion is practi-
cally dead. The gieat mass of the people are
content now, as in the grim old days, when re-
monstrance was rewarded by the direst penalties,
to at first calmly accept the most iniquitous de-
cisions.
They tolerate the continued existence of laws
which, in civilised countries, are obsolete and
matters of history. They also calmly endure
judicial actions which would be regarded with
horror in any country in the civilised world.
When, a few months ago, the criminal Johns
was convicted, he was sentenced to death at the
ghastly hour of 3 o’clock in the morning ! His
offence was a simple attempt at murder, an
offence for which the death j unishment has long
been abolished in England. Johns defended him-
self : prompted, perhaps, by the vanity of his
class— or perhaps by the fact that he did not
wish to be defended by unpaid junior counsel.
New South Wales, uDlike civilised countries,
provides no Crown fee for the defence of a penni-
less prisorer on trial for his life. Even a pauper
foreigner, who knew no English, when arraigned
for murder, was undefended by counsel.
The ineffable callousness of the convict days still
disfigures the code and courts of New South
Wales-
Rr s d this record of the time durir g which the
Criminal Court sat at Darlinghurst, Sydney, dur-
ing the trial of the six men now under sentence
of death for rape
Monday 10 a.m. to 9 pm
Tuesday 9 a.m. to 11 30 p.m.
Wednesday 9 a.m. to 6.30 p.m.
Thursday 9 a.m. to 6.45 p.m.
Friday 9a m. to 330 am.
Saturday 9 a.m to midnight.
As shown above, Judge Windeyer adjourned the
court at a comparatively early hour on tiro days
of the week —Wednesday and Thursday. On
Wednesday evenirg there was a dinner g' ven at
Government House to Sir R. W. Fowler, ex-Lord
Mayor of London, at which, according" to the
morning papers, Judge Windeyer was present.
On Thursday a dinner wasgiven by Mayor Young
to Sir R. W. Fowler, at which Mr. Justice Win-
deyer was also present. Did Justice w r ait that
Windeyer might dine ?
On the Monday night the counsel appealed to
the Judge rot to sit late, the case being a heavy
one. Judge Windeyer replied that personal con-
sider ations ought not to prevail in a case where
men were on trial for their lives and the jury
were likely to be locked up.
Yet on Wednesday and Thursday—see above !
Would such things be tolerated in any non-
convict country under the British flag ?
The meanest and poorest, and even the vilest )
man Is entitled, when arraigned, to a trial not less
fair and formal than that ordinarily given to the
most opulent and reputable citizen.
During the hearing of the Mount Rennie case,
several members of the jury, through sheer ex-
haustion, caused by protracted sittings, WERE
DOZING, IF NOT ACTUALLY ASLEEP, IN
THE JURY-BOX.
WHY THE SIX SHOULD
NOT BE HANGED.
1. THEY ARE MERE BOYS.
Their average age is less than eighteen years.
Five of them being under 21 could not be
legally held responsible for five shillings’ worth of
goods.
The law recognises their irresponsibility in civil
matters, and should not now make them respon-
sible to the extent of their lives.
2. THEY WERE RECOMMENDED TO MERCY.
The jury saw that their guilt was not worthy
of the highest penalty. That recommendation
meant something.
Judge Windeyer acted as if it meant nothing.
He mentioned it to the Executive, but probably
mentioned also the opinions he expressed in sen-
tencing the prisoners.
It is said that Judge Windeyer only recom-
mended one of the prisoners to the mercy of the
Executive ; hut the jury recommended them all
to mercy.
To hang them will make convictions on capital
charges impossible in future. So many persons
now urge the abolition of capital punishment for
rape that every jury must include one such re-
former at least.
Some months ago, in Sydney, a jury in con-
victing a man, Johns, of a capital offence, recom-
mended him to meicy. Their rrcommendation
was disregarded, and Johns was hanged.
A month or so after Johns’ execution, two men
were charged with murdering a policeman at
Canterbury, Sydney. The case was clear against
them. Their crime was a brutal one—they had
slain the constable with an axe. This offence was
all the worse because the victim was an officer of
the law. However, the murderers were drunk,
and though the law does not regard drunkenness
as extenuation of crime, the jury thought the pri-
soners should not, under the circumstances, be
hanged.
Nevertheless, they would, in keeping with their
oath, have found a verdict of guilty, accompanied
by a recommendation to mercy, had they thought
the recommendation would be respected by
the Executive. But, knowing that the Executive
had just disregarded such a recommendation,
they found a verdict of manslaughter only, in the
teeth of the judge’s summing-up.
Thus, what the law gains in severity it loses in
certainty. By punishing rashly or too much, a
state of things is brought about in which criminals
are not punished at all.
3. THERE MUST STILL BE REASONABLE
DOUBT AS TO THEIR GUILT.
One of the men acquitted said that he himself
was guilty, but that two others of the prisoners
were entirely innocent.
Their identification by the girl Hicks took
place under utterly improper conditions. She
at first failed to identify prisoners whom, still
seeing in custody, she subsequently accused.
How could she, w'hen in an excited state at the
Hospital, deliberately swear to 14 men whom she
had seen when in a state of confusion at Mount
Rennie ?
Guilty or innocent, once hanged there can be
no reparation.
In the Wyndham case, not long ago, three of the
men condemned to death on what was thought to
be conclusive evidence were, months afterwards,
proved not to have been near the scene of the
crime.
But what good will it do to any of these
prisoners to be proved innocent in three months’
time if they are hanged on the 7th January ? In-
nocent men have been hanged before : let not any
possibly innocent boy in this case be forced to
meet the unmerited infamy of the gallows.
While on this earth you can’t be too sure about
anything. In 1870, the Rev. Julian Tenison-
Woods, the geologist, whose name is a household
word throughout Australasia, sta*ed that, within
the previous 10 years in the course of his ministra-
tions as a missionary in Australia, two persons on
their death-beds confessed themselves to him
guilty of crimes for which others had been
executed.
4 THEIR CRIME, THOUGH BAD ENOUGH,
WAS NOT THE WORST OF ITS CLASS.
Hanging, if used at all to punish these crimes,
should only be used in the worst cases. In the
case of crimes which have not a single mitigating
circumsta> ce in cases where no jury would re-
commend to mercy— in cases where the woman
was an absolutely virtuous woman who had acted
virtuously, and wnere the offendeis were nien
capable of exercising reason, not boys to whom no
experience of manhood has taught the restraint
of manhood.
5. HANGING IS NO DETERENT AGAINST
CRIMES OF THOUGHTLESSNESS.
No prospect of punishment can prevent crimes
which result entirely from want of thought.
It is the very absence of reflection that makes
the crime.
No fear can deter when fear is forgotten in
passion.
Hanging failed to prevent thefts which result
from deliberate design ; how can it then possibly
prevent crimes which are begun with the de-
thronement of reason, aod b&sed on the primary
impulse of human nature.
G. THEIR DEATH IS DEMANDED CHIEFLY
BECAUSE OTHER CRIMINALS HAVE
ESCAPED.
To hang them would be to load them with the
guilt beyond their own.
They must be punished only for their own
offence, not for the offences of others.
Mount Carmel must not be piled on Mount
Rennie.
Judge Windeyer in his speech to the prisoners
indicated that the convicts had been tried also for
the crimes of others by enumerating ca*es in
which capital punishment had not been inflicted.
And one of these cases was the Wyndham
affair, whf re three innocent men—since released
from custody—were b> perjured evidence con-
victed and sentenced to death.
7. THEIR VICTIM WAS NOT BLAMELESS.
This is an important ihough repulsive plea.
She WBS once stopping at an hotel in Sydney,
and ‘‘a young gentleman from Bathurst,” not a
relative, paid her expenses.
She permitted a cabman to drive her out in his
can, although she might easily have got out or
stopped him.
After the cabman had, as she says, attempted
an assault while still in his cab on a publii road,
she remained in the cab and allowed him to drive
her homewards.
Was this the act of a virtuous woman ? In *he
w tness-box she admitted acts of immorality in
her past 1 fe.
There is no corroboration of the girl’s statement
that she was not at the first a consenting party.
8. NO SUCH EXECUTION HAS EVER
TAKEN PLACE ANYWHERE BEFORE.
I ot even in England, when men were hanged
for theft were b ys hanged for rape.
The shame would be unique in the history of
nations.
It was a crime of impulse wrought in a time of
unreason.
With the chance of committing the crime came
simuit-neously the whirlwind of blind passion.
Up to the time of the outrage most of the boys
had been of decent repute.
9. THE DEMAND FOR THEIR DEATH IS
THE OUTCOME OF EXCITEMENT
AND POPULAR PASSION.
In passion the crime was enacted ; in passion
the authorities and the people yell for revenge.
Want of thought led to the outrage ; the death
of the culprits would be proof of want of
| thought by the community.
Had the priscrtrs itarired when lemptation
met them no offence would have followed ; if the
community now will calmly reflect the wanton
offence will not be consummated by wanton
murder.
10. THEIR EXECUTION WOULD CONFER
LASTING DISGRACE ON NEW SOUTH
WALES.
That men should be hanged at all is a mark of
disgrace to any country ; for if hanging be in
any case necessary it is a token of the depravity
ot a community where so fearful a penalty is
enforced ; but if barging be not necessary it is
shame incalculable that it should be practised.
This of the hanging of men, but the case be-
comes infinitely more shameful when the crimi-
nals are still in their impetuous, unreasoning,
and passionate youth. The gallows is built over
the threshold of their manhood ; before they
have emerged from the byways of boyhood they
are closed in the felon’s grave.
For the sake of the colony, for the sake of our
reputation as a just, a humane, and a reflective
people, this proposed execution must be remitted.
It is within the power of the Governor to grant a
reprieve if he chooses to do so, and if the men of
the community with determined voice protest
against the brutality of the laws which sanction
this execution, and against the men who, with
misguiced enthusiasm would enforce such laws,
reprieve may yet be obtained.
Justice and the repute of our country alike are
imperilled until the sentence be altered as to each
and all of the six who now stand condemded to
death.
The Sydney Morning Herald contends that
the law which awards the punishment of death
for rape must be taken to be the will of
the people, inasmuch as it has been deli-
berately adopted by Parliament within the last
few years. 'I his law, says the Herald, is not
like one of those obsolete statutes under which in
England the punishment of death used to be in-
flicted with sickening frequency.
But the facts remain that the present barbaric
New South Wales rape law is an unrepealed and
re-adopted survival of the old English law, and
'hat England and all other civilised nations have
long since ceased to haDg for rape. The sister
colony, Victoria, has abolished the death penalty
for that offence.
Seven months ago, three soldiers of a Biitisb
line regiment, convicted of having jointly com-
mitted rape upon a woman near Manchester, were
upon conviction sentenced to ten years’ imprison-
ment only.
There is beneath the sun but one other civilised
country which hangs for rape, and that country is
Tasmania—the convict daughter of a convict
motht r.
The criminal code of New South Wales awards
death for over 20 different offences. That code
was mainly instigated by a relic of the past in the
shape of an official who 50 years ago was Crown
Prosecutor in Van Diemen’s Land, just after the
days when it was customary to hang men for
sheep-stealing. Is Van Diemen’s Land the school!
for the awyer who is to administer justice in an
enlightened country at the close of the nineteenth
century 1
If New South Wales is at issue with all civili-
sation with respect to her criminal code, which :s
likely to be right ?—the civilised world, which con-
tains proportionately just as brutal men and just
as many weak women as are to be found in Ni w
South Wales, or the lawgivers of an unhappy
colony which was baptised in blood and bred
under the shadow of the gaol-wall 1
The main- and, in fact, only—argument of
those who would retain the death penalty for raj e
is that it is necessary to protect lonely women in
places where the population is sparse. But the
great majority of the worst of the offences have
occurred in the centres of population, while they
are hardly known in the bush.
It is doubtful whether the death-penalty should
be retaint d for the punishment of any crime
whatsoever. But its being retained for any crime
short of murder is absurd in view of the fact that,
under si ch circumstances, it is a direct incentive
to murder.
Yes, if the death-penalty be retained in such
cases, then in sparse populations a large per cent
age of the cases of rape will be accompanied by
murder. “ Dead women tell no tales.” “A man
may as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.”
That is how the criminal argues.
All oiher countries find it best to visit the crime
of rape with a lesser punishment. Must humanity
be disgraced by the killing of these wretched con-
victs simply because they happen to live in New
South Wales ?
THE GOVERNOR’S POWER OF
REPRIEVE.
Can a Governor of New South Wales
pardon or reprieve a criminal after re-
ceiving advice from the Executive Coun-
cil to the contrary ? This is a question
still deemed by some to be open to
debate. Several Sydney papers, especi-
ally the little Echo, argued in Johns’
case that the Governor had no power
to reprieve against the advice of his
Council. Such a contention can only
avail in the absence of the only autho-
rity capable of deciding the question.
This authority is section XI l of the
Imperial Instructions to the Governor
which reads thus :
“The Governor shall not pardon nor re-
prieve any such offender unless it shall appear
to him expedient so to do upon receiving the
advice of the said Executive Council theron ;
but in all such cas>-s he is to decide either to
extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve
according to his own deliberate judgment
whether the members of the Executive Council
conrur therein or otherwise, entering never-
theless on the minutes of the said Executive
Council a minute of his reaeons at length, in
case he should decide any such question in
opposition to the judgment of the majority of
the members thereof.”
Nothing need be clearer than this.
The Governor cannot in the case of a
criminal either pardon or reprieve before
he receives the advice of the Executive ;
but having received that advice, he 'is to
act entirely according “ to his own deli-
berate judgment Lord Carington
cannot imitate the action of Pontius
Pilate and wash his hands of the blood
of these men.


The Gallows and the Cross.
