

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
STDE
Wy
*
PROOF
PNE'CS
Netting !
BRAJND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BBOS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
SPECIALITIES:
Bayis* Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., Sec.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22>nd*24lClarence-st., Sydney.
flemiws
MBTJATMMC
BUGGIBS
FIRST GRADE
STCLS,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
U«bd by Adl the
liTff-f eMfzeng.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT^crw'GGioei
I
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
■fUkd
Call and Inspect
i«I»»»Ml
ijjTui
/ GOID£\SYR!/P t
jTntiii. W lfH.lii.nu'.lVil«iriM.Ti!|iHlllll
ANUFACTURERS,
cgSs iv AKO
Trcacu
RFf//\fRS
HltmilHlllllimHmtMnMM.MimiltlltlMlM.lll '/Ssel
OMIBMDEO® *
UUUkUAU
8
HtAD Office & factory, ivewtowh
AJA/OAS IS JDUOJO ‘HDNViJQ
0
cn>
UNIQUE -'FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Amo,
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
beeakfaat, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. DeMeious with
milk, superb with wine, and ineomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 StrssßK Street, Sydney.
Jkvttlßg yt£ require from Sydney
i’ORWARDHD AT
COST PRICE.
NO CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Wflpia foorasded fr»e of all
g&aStfOS.
SBSKD BO AN BBTABOB3HED CITY FIRM.
JOM T. MlMffi & GO.,
MVBNT H?RIOT, »¥I»BHG¥, NJ».W.
Jbeek&M
r/;
3.
78
l/amS
REMINGUON
C±Jmim
TYPE-WRITER
MtW,,,,, -
Seres labour, stationery, and dime, writing much faster
peeioen, and eoadensiag matter to less than
ene-mur ttia sraa.ee occupied hjr pea writing. Beautiful
■“*:y oe fefcen in the usual manner ia theietter-preee
Seta wneieeale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
4*6 Keat-sfrreet,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO„
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING.
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ &c.
*
MERf.HANTSr
-r—■
*
m nib
E fH
IwM MERC HA
!-■-- -> RON YAM .’^Z 1 4;.U IWfflf ■ 1.1 1M
of five
mm
m
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and PLAII? IRON}
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDERS’ IRON
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGINES, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING, SHAPING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE STEAM
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT PULLEYS}
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse •
Iron and Implement 'Yard-
Bulk Stores- • !
London Office
• 54 YORK STREET.
. HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, D ARLING*H ARBOUR.
SVDITEY.
~7 . 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
DUSW«SaMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDStY.
DtXSON A SONS
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODLE
OIXSON A SONS
SIRROGER
OIXSON A SONS rM ' c f
N AILROD
OIXSON ft SONS
CHAMPION
OIXSON A SONS AXBMAItt 0» WB#
CUT . In Tins begets. Baits
R.C.R ÜBY. ORIENTALMIXTUBC
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF. Ada
sV
o>v>>^x
o
V/v,
\» .it
6 -<
o fl
COOLALTA WINES
FILTER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
K.
1
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
GIiAItLOTTH-PLAOB IKS GtoOBOS-STBrBBK.
HANIEY’S
DOZEN CASE
ASSORTBD
WIRES, SPIRITS, ani MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OP OITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. ease as you please fisosn the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle.
Dunvflle’s Shamrock and Barkers
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Beru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart do **• u
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. Id. &Be. Bd.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s-
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per, gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Pouter, and Laser Beer.
Certificate of merit of the firet-etaas and Bihar medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised hr big
ExoeUency the Governor’s household, 6d. par Bfcttte. AH
flrst-oloas Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle Be-
Srtmeilt ofthe GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
George-street and CharloWe-plaoe. Orders by post miMtecL
Mrs. Hanaey attend* personally on lady patrone.
MACHINERY.
LAND
AHO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PIMPS*
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL -
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH.
LOWEST COST!
IRANCS
A NO
HO IST I MU
ENGINES*
LAWN
MOWER&
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, &Q*
ESTIMATED FOE OOMPLBTB.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER,
SOLE AGEKT^M
Sydney:
HI, PITT STREET.
Melbourne;
M, KING STBHT


The Bulletin
Vol. 7—No. 350.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1886.
Price., 6d.
Daylight Robbery—The Demons of Trade and Their Victim.
SUGGESTED BY THE RECENT SHORT-WEIGHT INVESTIGATIONS.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
tERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
Rot annum - - - 4 ■£! Os. Od.
jdalf-yearly - - - - 0 12si od s
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d-
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to \Vhorrt all orders for the paper, advertisements;
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
p y sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Tost Office Order, Oue-
pouud Note, or stamps of any Australian colony- you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
THE Bulletin is not delivered by ma*il, but i 3 entirely m
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere. .
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1886.
The Lessons of Mount Rennie.
In choosing such a subject, and departing
from the stereotyped method of treatment,
there is always the risk of being mi' under-
stood. The person who raises his voice
against the operation of barbarous laws and
in favour of enlightened ones, must be pie-
pared to have his views questioned and his
motives misrepresented and caricatured. He
is pourtrayod either as a dangerous visionary
or as an active sympathiser with ciime. lie
becomes a target for the dull platitudes of
the great dunce family, a mark for the
clumsy ridicule of the self-righteous. Maud-
lin 'sentimentalism,” “ mawkish philan-
thropy,” and similar well-worn catch-words
from the vocabulary of abuse are fired at
him from pulpit and from press. In this
connection we would seriously suggest to
those able persons who, in the daily leading
article, the weekly sermon, and the occa-
sional address from the Bench, say so mucti
that is not new when true, nor true when
new, that it would be judicious to choose
fresh adjectives to strengthen their argu-
ments, as “mawkish,” “maudlin,” and a
few more of that class have done such good
service in the cause as to be fairly entitled
to a little rest. Barren as our tongue is in
synonyms it is not so barren as to deny
appropriate, ones to those writers or speakers
who desire to give a well-earned repose to a
few words whose original vigour has been
sadly marred by long ill-use and over-work.
Ever since the Times, many years ago, used
the word “maudlin” to designate the in-
decent squeamishness of those who considered
it iniquitous to force opium on the Chinese
at the bayonet’s point, these unfortunate
adjectives have not had a moment to them-
selves when savage laws had to be passed or
barbarous punishments inflicted.
* * *
Communities lose their heads like indivi-
duals. It is then that true citizenship is
shown in reasoning with wild national im-
pulses instead of blindly following them.
Twenty-five years ago a thrill of pleasure
ran through England as Jefferson Davis
drove home the wedge that was to split the
Union. The prospect of two jealous and
hostile Republics on the North American
continent was pleasant to those who watched
the growth of Democracy with no friendly
eyest No doubt the triumph of the South
meant the perpetuation of Slavery—its
victory the defeat of humanity. But what
was freedom or humanity to the Times, the
Saturday Review, or the descendants of
those sprightly ladies the way to whose
chamber doors was as well known to the
handsome Jack Churchills of the time
as to the Stuarts ? When Bright
stood up to tell the English people
the true state of affairs, to explain to them
that the cause of the North meant progress
and of the South retrogression, he was be-
spattered with vituperative mud. Grave
prelates turned away their heads ; learned
judges frowned on the unpatriotic tribune ;
Tory editors shook their rattles in his face
and expressed fear lest some wicked people
might put him under the pump. It was
precisely the same when Romilly and
Brougham thundered against the penal
laws that were the scandal of Europe. The
Bench of bishops shot out the tongue and
damned in dainty English the proposals
to regenerate society by means of the
school-house instead of the gallows. The
progeny of the Cecils, the Churchills, the
Cavendishes, and the Fitzroys, could not
repress their laughter at the idea of govern-
ing without wdiipping naked women at the
cart’s tail. Even with us at this end of the
world the position of the reformer, or of him
who struggles against a burst of popular un-
reason, is not without its drawbacks. The
opinion is now all but universal that the N.S.
Wales expedition to the Soudan was “a
blunder worse than a crime.” But when a
citizen ascended a Sydney platform early last
year to explain how foolish, wficked, and
supererogatory the project was, the appear-
ance of his coat and hat after a short argu-
ment proved the impolicy of obstruction and
the strength of the popular voice.
* * *
And so to our text. The cry for blood
that went up from the Bench has been
echoed by the press. A perusal of recent
leading articles would lead one to suppose
that the crime of rape was peculiar to N.S.
Wales, and unknown beyond its borders.
Yet the offence, in its worst form, is scarcely
known in the colony. One never hears of
the forcible defilement of chaste and circum-
spect women. The Mount Ronnie case is no
exception. The outrage usually springs from
a drunken orgie participated in by lewd men
and women as lewd. Newspapers spread the
opinion that the proper treatment for such
men is to wipe them out of existence. If
under such a regimen the offence disappeared
there would be nothing to urge against the
gallows. But the lesson taught by universal
experience is that neither this nor
any other description of crime can be
eradicated by such means. Indeed, advanced
thinkers have long since abandoned the idea
of putting down crime entirely, and now
content themselves with the humble task of
conlining it within the narrowest limits. On
one thing they are agreed- it is the certainty
of detection rather than the severity of
punishment that tends to check wrongdoing.
It is not what he will suffer if found out, but
the chances in favour of escaping, that sways
the criminal. And yet so peculiarly are
some men’s minds constituted that even
when detection is certain and punishment
severe, given but the opportunity and the
crime will follow. With the assurance that
discovery must take place a clerk makes a
false entry, daily attends his office, and
chats daily with his fellows. So far as he is
individually concerned it matters little
whether the penalty extends over a week or
over a life-time. The chance comes in his
way and he takes it. It was the same with
the Mount Rennie satyrs and with the others
mentioned by the presiding judge. Would
the knowledge that death was the penalty
have had any effect ? Those know little of
human nature who think so.
* * *
Owing to the early circumstances of N.S.
Wales the feeling among the ruling classes
in favour of capital and of corporal punish-
ment is still strong. The idea that but for
the rope and the cat-o’-nine-tails society
would fall to pieces, has a firm hold on the
colonial mind. If it could be shown that
with the gibbet and the triangles we would
have ten murders and ten rapes in the year,
while without them but five of each offence
would occur, there are legislators and judges
among us who would prefer to hang and flog
and put up with the ten extra outrages.
Colonial judges are seldom men of wide
sympathies or of profound acquaintance with
subjects lying outside their profession. In-
deed, their views on some important matters
are rather mirth-provoking than otherwise.
This was well shown recently by the pam-
phlets of two Victorian Judges, and the
speech of a New South Wales one. Speech
and publications dealt with some of the theo-
logical questions which during the past 2000
years men have been in the habit of discuss-
ing when they had nothing else to do. To
the reader acquainted with the attitude of
the best European thought towards these
subjects, there was something almost gro-
tesque in the efforts made by the speaker to
infuse fresh life into the moribund beliefs,
and by the writers to attract attention to
their elementary scepticism. Judges cannot
learn too soon that when they choose to
circulate their view's by means of words
written or spoken they must submit to
criticism like meaner citizens. Their posi-
tion gives them no right to expect the ac-
quiescence of thoughtful men in their exploded
dogmas, ortheirmildcoquettings with unbelief.
As for the Victorian Judges, their pamphlets
were about as interesting as a lecture on long
division would be to a class of Cambridge
Wranglers.
* *
Considering all the circumstances, it is
doubtful whether, outside of Australia, there
exists a country wffiere such sentences would
be passed or such demands be made to carry
them out. It may be, of course, that Aus-
tralia is wiser than the rest of the world,
but then the opposite opinion is also tenable.
The wisdom of employing torture at all is,
after centuries of trial, denied by the leading
nations. The practice of combining it with
life-long imprisonment is peculiarly Austra-
lian. When the British army and navy were
at their worst, when on the -barrack-square
and the quarter-deck, the swish of the lash
was heard from morning till night, corporal
punishment and penal servitude never w ent
together. Such a combination was seen to
be so meaningless and wanton in its savagery
as to find no advocates. But it is a favourite
plan with us. The regret of Judge Wixdeyer
that the wretch Sweetman was not in better
health that he might bo able to bear more
stripes is worthy only of Patagonia. It will
be remembered how Gulliver, placed upon
the King of Brobdignag’s palm, strutted
with pride as he bawded into his Majesty’s
ears of European conspiracies in the palace
and prowess in the field. We can imagine the
dwarfish traveller’s surprise when instead of
expressing admiration the king replied —we
quote from memory—“ From what you say,
friend Gulliver, I fancy thatyour people must
be about the meanest lot of vermin that ever
crawled on the earth.” Some years ago the
officials of the Melbourne gaol showed the
officers of an Italian man-of-u r ar through
their establishment and among other things
exhibited the scourges and explained the use
of the triangles. Instead of admiration the
foreigners—citizens of a country wherein
even Passanante, who wounded King Hum-
bert with intent to kill him, was not put to
death—were filled with loathing for a people
who could thus glory in their shame. On
their return to Italy a book vras published
in which scathing allusions were made to the
Victorian method of treatment. At the last
elections, when a prominent member was
asked his opinion on flogging he naively said
that the punishment should be administered
when deserved. The answer was considered
satisfactory. Had breaking on the wheel or
crucifixion been in vogue the same reply
would serve the purpose.
* * *
Just as the decline of barbarous punish-
ments is the sign of a nation’s advance, so
their growth is a sure symptom of a people’s
decay. Much of the crime in New South
Wales is directly traceable to the ferocity of
former laws. To cure the criminal tendency,
then, by the very means that caused it, is
marvellous if only as an example of folly.
Next to the crime at Mount Rennie there is
plenty of cause for national humiliation to
be found in various parts of the address
from the Bench and in all parts of the yells
sent up by the newspapers for triangles and
blood. The manner in which the prisoners
were bi’ouglit one by one before the unfor-
tunate woman did not give them a fair
chance for their lives. 'J hey should have
been in company with men who were known
not to have been present at the outrage.
Had some of the jury, or even the judge
himself, been treated similarly it is by no
means certain that the girl in her bewilder-
ment would not have fixed upon them also.
The manner of their trial, during which
judge and jury sat one day eighteen and a
half hours, and next day fourteen hours,
counsel rising to address the jury at 3 o’clock
in the morning, was a disgrace'to civilisation.
One thing at all events is certain. If this pack
of degraded boys are all hanged, or, in lieu of
that, flogged at intervals, murder and rape will
probably go hand in hand in the future.
And if, after the capital punishment or the
torture, one or more of them should be
proved innocent—a possibility far from re-
mote—the increase of crime may be looked
for with tolerable certainty.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wrecks and Recklessness.
Wrecks aro stock subjects of conversation in
these Eastern colonies of Australia. They are the
absorbing “Eastern Question” of Australasia.
The interest aroused by one disaster has barely
subsided before the telegram announcing another
gives an excuse for sensational “ special editions
describing a collision at 9 p.m. as “an appalling
midnight catastrophe,” and then the series of
narrative, inquest, inquiry, subscription, and
sometimes trial, has to be gone through: and be-
fore the facts of one wreck have lost their vivid
interest another chapter in the page of marine
disaster is begun. It may be said with absolute
certainty that although the coast between Mel-
bourne and Brisbane is the safest in the world,
both as regards weather and reefs, and the steamers
equal in seagoing qualities to any of similar size
afloat, the per centageof loss of vessels, and of lives
of passengers, are both higher than on any coast
under heaven. The reason of this is obvious.
Nine out of ten of the wrecks and disasters that
have taken place within the last ten years on this
Eastern sea board are directly traceable to the
gross carelessness of someone concerned with the
vessel’s navigation. And this carelessness is al-
most solely referable to the want of natural dan-
gers on the track. The cupidity of directors
prompts captains to do a lot of “ cornpr-cutting,”
and the depth of water round these “corners”
leads to fatal carelessness in presuming on the ad-
vantages which Nature has afforded. To a compe-
tent ’captain, navigation between Brisbane and
Melbourne is mere child’s play : he usually has
steam-stearing gear on his vessel, and the rocks of
thecoastgo down like a wall. So,if conceitedhe shows
off his ability to gaping landsmen. He runs his
vessel close enough to the Seal Rocks to admit of
seal-shooting ; he goes through the South Solitary
passage when there is evident danger in the
act; and on rounding other points he is proud of
being able to do so, “inside of a quarter of a
mile.” Nautical skylarking goes before a ship-
wreck, Some day a little less than the usual skill
is employed, and then a coroner finds the necessity
of collecting a j ury. Anyone who has travelled
much on the Australian coast is not surprised
that disasters occur so often ; his marvel is that
they come so seldom. It is only a few months
since a captain took his vessel through the South
Passage of Moreton Bay, although this had been
declared too dangerous for navigation months
before, in order to get to Sydney before a
faster vessel, which kept the safe track.
Three times his ship struck, but each time was
lifted off by the succeeding wave. Quite recently,
too, captains have sailed their vessels “ three
times round ” others in brutal exultation at pos-
sessing faster ships. These are the incidents
that precede murderous wrecks. It is too early
yet to assert the immediate causes leading to the
Corangamite or Keilawarra disasters, but it is
perfectly certain that human error, not the forces
of nature, was responsible in both cases. So with
nearly all the rest of that dreary and shame-
ful catalogue of wrecks. For a vessel to be
lost by stress of weather as in the case
of the Dandenong, is the rare exception ; the
rule is that, as in the case of the Cahors, or,
worse still, the Ly-ee-Moon, lives are sacrificed
and property lost at sea by gross negligence and
criminal carelessness. When human skill and
science are conquered by main force of the ele-
ments one can but grieve at the record of those lost
in the defeat, but when lives are thrown aw 7 ay by
the man to whose care they are entrusted grief is
forgotten in anger. The only remedy is in the
hands of owners and directors of the various com-
panies. If they retain officers on their steamers
who are known to be “flash” and careless by
turns, disaster will certainly follow. It is useless
to blame that useless sham, the New South Wales
Marine Board ; they don’t appoint officers and
have no control over them until a smash comes.
Hitherto the A.S.N. Company have had a mono-
poly of wrecks on the East Coast trade ; now
Messrs. lluddart, Parker, and Co., and
Howard Smith and Co. have followed the evil
example. If this is a sign that the directorate of
those companies have started to follow the policy
of the ill-starred Sydney company they would
profit by observing that company’s fate and that
of so many of their passengers.
♦
Chief Justice Darley and His Model.
It is curious to note that Mr. Darkey at the re-
cent s vearing-in ceremony discarded the idea of
folowing in the footsteps of his predecesjors, Sir
James Martin and Sir Alfred Stephen, as a
perfectly hopeless project. “ When I contemplate
their careers,” he said, “my heart sinks within
me.” But his Honor was inspired by quite a
different sentiment when he came to speak of Sir
Matthew Hake, a Chief Justice who nourished
in the reign of King Charles 11. He quoted at
length the “ things” this judge declared “neces-
sary to be continually held in remembrance,” ap-
proved of a dictum to the effect that these
“ things” ought to be inscribed in letters of gold
on the walls of Westminster Hall, and finally
promised to bear these rules of conduct perenni-
ally in mind and to pray for Divine help to obey
them. Nevertheless a perusal of Sir Matthew
Hake’s rules of conduct serves mostly to induce
a shuddering recollection of copybook exercises.
He begins by affirming that in the administration
of justice he was “ entrusted fjr Goo, the King,
and country, and, therefore, that it be done up-
rightly, deliberately, resolutely.” He then lays it
down for himself “ that I rest not upon my own
understanding or strength, but implore and rest
upon the direction and strength of God.” This
sounds veil, but we cannot forget that our friends
of antiquity had a weakness for throwing the re-
sponsibility of their actions—bad, good, and in-
different —always upon the unfortunate Deity.
An Archbishop of Toledo is said to have fasted
and prayed three whole days and nights with the
view of obtaining “the direction and strength of
God,’’the result being a terrible auto-da-fe-, andtheic
was a good deal of preliminaryprayingon the eve of
that awful Bartholomew’s Day. Even this very
Sir Matthew Hale showed by his performances,
that his pious assertion about imploring God for
direction and strength was vain and bootless.
Take one remarkable incident in his career. In
the spring of 1664 this judge went on circuit to
Bury St, Edmunds. There was great commotion
among the local ecclesiastics, and numerous
prayers were offered, asking for Divine aid in be-
half of the matters to be tried. It is d that
Sir Matthew Hale “demeaned with marvel-
lous devotion, and humbly prayed God to
graciously yield him insight of the business he
might have in hand, so to judge and determine
them as to lead to the glory of God, and the well-
being of the King.” The most important trial was
that of two widows who W'ere charged with witch-
craft. It was alleged that these women were re-
sponsible for certain ills that had befallen two
little girls, and that devilry was at the bottom of
it. The evidence went to show that the Devil was
remarkably subtle in his methods, and that The
children had swallowed some pins. Sir Matthew
Hale did not even go over the evidence to the
jury. But, as the historian says, “ only this he ac-
quainted them : that they had two things to inquire
after. First, whether or no these children were
bewitched ; secondly, whether the prisoners at
the bar were guilty of it.” His Lordship then
proceeded to say : —“ That there were such crea-
tures as witches he made no doubt at all. For,
first, the Scriptures had affirmed so much ;
secondly, the wisdom of all nations had provided
laws against such persons, which is an argument
of their confidence of such a crime. And such
hath been the judgment of this kingdom, which
hath provided punishments proportionable to the
quality of the offence.” He then beseeched them
‘ strictly to observe their evidence, and desired
the great God of Heaven to direct their hearts in
this weighty thing they had in hand. For,” he
added, “ to condemn the innocent and to let the
guilty go free were both an abomination to the
Lord.” This was the Gharge'of Chief Justice
Darkey’s beau ideal of adjudge. The verdict
was in accordance, whereat Sir Matthew was
fully satisfied,” and the were indue
course executed —probably burrit at the stake.
The narrator of this striking episode in the life
of Sir Matthew Hale does not neglect to tell
how a certain Serjeant Keeltng, who chanced to
be present, “seemed much unsatisfied with the
evidence, and thought it not sufficient to convict
the prisoners.” “For,” Serjeant Keeking
argued, “ even admitting that the in
truth bewitched, yet it can never be applfa# to the
prisoners upon the imagination only of the parties
afilicted.” However, theiearned Sir Matthew
thought differently, and simply urged the women
to confess their evil transactions with Satan, ad-
monishing them that confession and repentance
then and there might save their souls from ever-
lasting perdition. This is a typical excerpt from
the record of that Chief Justice whom Mr. Darley
has pledged himself to copy as nig]h as he can.
The outlook is not very hopeful. 'I he same
pandering to vulgar prejudice and superstition is
presented to the mind as a by no means improb
able fulfilment of the promise avowed. The very
suggestion of a witchcraft prosecution in these
days is unspeakably absurd, but the Judge
who goes back to an age when such
fooleries were dominant for a pattern for
imitation is not likely to take thato-broad, en-
lightened, Nineteenth-Century view of analogous
matters so plainly demanded by the age. The N.S.W.
Criminal Law Consolidation Act provides punish-
ments in respect of numerous offences scarcely
less monstrous than the ancient method of dealing
with old women suspected of being in league
with the devil. By virtue of that extraordinary
enactment there are nearly a score of crimes
punishable with death ; while the lash can in-
flicted (even, in some cases, without trial by jury f
for comparatively venial infringements of the
law. In these circumstances the presence on the
bench of a Chief Justice imbued with reject, not
for the sapience that satisfied the good folk of
Charles ll.’s time, but for the most advanced
thought of this current era, would seem to be a
desideratum of the first magnitude. Possibly
when Mr. Darley discovers that his adoration
for the blind slave of a superstitious and ignorant
age is not shared by the public, he will cast about
for a new model. The sooner he does so the
better for the progress of the country.
Alger Bunyard, who was sentenced by Judge
Docker to ten years’ imprisonment, has had the
sentence commuted to three years. This result is
chiefly owing to the personal activity of Mr. J. M.
Curtis, who in one sense may therefore be re-
garded as a “Docker” of hard sentences. But
this is trivial and by the way. What we wanted
to point out to his Honor is that this commutation
amounts to a vote of censure on his own conduct,
and would most fitly be met by a request for
leave of absence. Judge Docker should go for a
long holiday. He should take the European trip
with Judge Windeyer, for whose society he is


admirably suited. Such similarity of taste and
thought is seldom seen, and a tour in company
would be a foretaste of elysium to each of them.
They oould compare sentences and recapitulat
the admirable, if occasionally tedious, advice the
have at various times given to prisoners whon
juries have recommended to mercy, and migh
even work together in their spare hours for th
production of a book to be called—say, “ Feurtee
Years and the Cat as an Incentive to Holiness,
“ Sinners I Have Sentenced,” “ Sermons to Con
victs,” or “Mercy the Sign of Lunacy.” W
merely suggest these titles in a kindly spirit
others of a similar character will readily sugges;
themselves. And if their Honors should decid
to exhibit their popular smiles under foreig
skie3, we would further suggest that as trave
enlarges the mind they should travel as soon anc
as far as possible. And as long.
♦
That Cardinal Moran is unfit for his position
has long been abundantly clear to all except hi
own particular crowd. His zeal is bigotry am
his enthusiasm an offence. Just now he is pain
fully prominent in the daily papers. At first lm
raised the green flag in an attack upon Mr. Goon
i.et, asserting that that gentleman, under the
garb of charity, was proselytising adherents of the
Romanist faith—alluring them to his own private
hospital by saying that it was a non-sectarian in-
stitution, and then refusing to permit them to see
a priest. This complaint having been proved to
be utterly baseless, he proceeds to make similar
charges against the Sydney Ueaf and Dumb
Asylum. Whether these latter charges are
true or not is still doubtful. The evidence
consists so far of bald assertions and flat
denials, but in any case the Cardinal does
not show well in the affair. Hi 3 charges are
made in a manner calculated to arouse bitter
sectarian hatred, and are disfigured by vulgar
abuse indicative more of animus than of religious
emotion. Bigotry has been given a new lease of
life by the Cardinal’s action, and he
stands discredited by the proved falseness of his
mot charge. If, instead of raising the green flag
of scctarianism’Jin this matter, he had employed
his spare time in explaining what has become of
the money subscribed for Archbishop Vaughan’s
burial it would have been better for himself, h ; s
Church, and his people.
A ROMANCE OF THE LASH,
This article is written not with the hope
of redressing an injury, nor with the purpose of
hoisting on the gibbet of public indignation the
individual actors who took a part in the very
commonplace tragedy herein related. For that
reason names of places and persons are altered,
and the description of occurrences so amended as
to preclude the possibility of recognition, save by
those who took part in them. Nevertheless, the
narrative is true from beginning to end. It is not
fiction founded upon facts, but the bare facts
unadorned, unexaggerated. Within the last seven
years, in a colony and near a city famed for its
exalted religious fervour—with the spires of its
churches visible from the warders’ watch-towers
—the swirling nine-thonged lash has stripped the
flesh from the quivering backs of convicts for
simple breaches of discipline, for offences so venial
that there is not a free man in Sydney from the
Premier to the pot-boy who can honestly confess
that he is not a sinner in an equal degree.
* * *
An English “ Divine,” as it is the fashion
to call our Church of England clergymen, Gurdon
by name, has written in the Times that “we
suffer from a general condition of unwhipped-
ness,” and with others would fain bring again
into operation all those delightful instruments of
torture which civilisation has relegated to the
chamber of horrors in the Tower and at the Wax-
works. The Mosaic Code is not stringent enough
for these wrathy mortals. They would prefer to
see the Indian code introduced. To catch a fellow
by the collar who insults a woman or assaults a
feeble old man, and administer a thorough casti-
gation with any weapon you have handy would
be fair retaliation ; but in cold blood to tie up a
human being and administer deliberate torture is
debasing alike to those who inflict the punishment
and those who witness it—you brutalise them.
The rank and file of our soldiery was brutalised
when flogging was in vogue, and only since its
discontinuance has the standard of morality in our
army been raised.
* * #
But this is a digression I ought not to have
permitted myself. The story I have to tell is af
the suffering entailed upon a man, Thomas Kane
by name, the victim of cruel circumstances in
which you or I, delicate reader, might have un-
happily been placed.
* *
This Thomas Kane was a hawker, the
owner of a spring-cart and pair of horses, and a
small stock of fancy goods (including cheap jewel-
lery), which he peddled about among the small
stations and farms in the interior of the colony.
He was accompanied by a woman, who might have
been his wife if she had not had a husband already
in existence. Ido not claim for this man that he
bad an unblemished moral character. He may
have been a cheat and a trickster in his dealings
with the simple country folk ; he was certainly
given to use bad language ; occasionally he drank
wore than was good for him ; was slovenly and
dirty in his habits; and, worst of all, he never
went to chapel, though now and again he 're-
sponded to the begging appeal of a clergyman of
the church to which he nominally belonged. During
one of his hawkingtours he made the acquaintance
of a clrover, Foley by name, who was then out of
employment. Foley happened upon the hawker’s
camp one evening at sundown, and, turning out
his horse, boiled his billy at the Kane fire. In the
course of the evening Foley and Mrs. Kane dis-
covered that they had met in a previous sphere of
existence, when the lady was retailing liquor over
Jhe bar of a small public-house in Castlemaine, and
the drover had been driving the butcher’s cart
Which brought the supplies of meat to the Dig-
ger’s Fleece. Foley camped next day with the
Hanes, and, according to the statement made by
the hawker, being hard up for cash, and having
n ° property but his horse, a silver watch, and his
SWa g, sold the watch to Kane for £ 2.. The same
evening Foley gave Kane Bs. of this money to buy
a bottle of gin at the nearest bush public-house, a
mile from the next camp, and the liquor was con-
sumed by the three friends that night. Foley and
the lady had now become more intimate ; and, as
the drover was not a bad-looking fellow —though
a rather dissipated appearance; and the lady,
hough approaching the forties, was not altoge-
her ill-favoured, it may be that each found in the
tner a magnet of attraction strong enough to
'’ercome all counteracting considerations.
* * *
Early the next morning, while Kane was
eeping off the effects of his over-indulgence,
c oiey left the camp, and, riding to the nearest I
police station, informed the officer in charge that
on the previous evening he (i.e., Foley) laid camped
near a hawker’s cart. After tea he had been in-
duced to drink some gin supplied by the hawker,
and had then fallen asleep. At daylight he awoke,
and, feeling for his watch, discovered that it had
been stolen from him. Some one-pound notes had
also been stolen from his trousers pockets. He
described the watch, having fortunately kept the
guarantee issued by the Melbourne watchmaker
who had sold him the timepiece six months before.
Ho did not remember the numbers of the notes
alleged to have been stolen. The police-
sergeant rode out to Kano's camp, made
a search and discovered the watch in
one of the boxes on the cart. I need
not go into details of how Kane was ar-
rested. It may briefly be mentioned that he
was brought before the local bench at the nearest
township and a prima facie case having been
made out to the satisfaction of the magistrate,
the unhappy prisoner was committed for trial at
the next District Court, which fortunately for the
speedy attainment of justice, commenced at this
town m three days. The prisoner had given into
the charge of his “wife” the small stock of
money they possessed (some £7O), but so confident
was he ol acquittal that he engaged no counsel to
nd .J Um ' Tho caso came 011 f °r trial, and
after the constable, Foley, and the watchmaker
had given evidence, the Prosecutor called Honora
Oaflery into the witness-box. With much falter-
ing and many tears the estimable creature con-
fessed she was not the lawful wife of tho prisoner ;
and it was not until much persuasion and many
threats had been employed to extract the evidence
from her that she admitted having seen Kane
take the watch from Foley while that unsuspect-
ing gentleman was lying on the ground in tho un-
consciousness of intoxication.
* * *
Kant* told me, long afterwards, that lie
looked at this woman while she gave her evidence
but all power of speech or even of thought’
seemed to have deserted him. He asked no ques-
tions and answered none ; he heard as in a dream
the verdict of guilty, and the judge’s brief homily
pi loi to passing sentence—Twelve calendar months
with hard labour in Her Majesty’s Labour Prison
at Dismal Creek.
* * *
In 18781 applied for, and obtained the appoint-
ment of warder at the Dismal Creek prison. My
discharge as an officer from the Imperial service
with a certificate of merit from the colonel of my
regiment, were my credentials. The duties of my
new situation were not severe, but monotonous,
compelling one to stand with rifle loaded and
bayonet fixed, keeping guard over a gang of from
3 Ho 40 prisoners while they worked in the quarrit s
from early morn to dewy eve. I had been there
for about two months, when I was promoted to
inside duty. It was part of my work to examine
the cells while their occupants were at the quar-
ries to see that everything was secure. In one of
the cells I found two or three rations of bread
behind the prisoner’s bedding. The cell was
tenanted by Thomas Kane. The next day I ob-
served the whole of the 24 hours’ supply had been
untouched. Not to weary with details, I may
mention here that Kane deliberately refused all
food for five days and reported himself sick. He
was examined by the gaol surgeon, and ordered to
go out to the quarry. Kane refused and was put
into solitary confinement on bread and water.
Out of sheer hunger he ate his bread, but at the
expiration of his confinement sullenly refused to
wmrk in the quarry. He was a man who had
evidently been unused to hard manual labour, and
was as physically unfit to wield a mauling-hammer
upon a block of stone as any draper’s shopman.
He was labouring under the impression that he
had been unjustly condemned to his present
misery without having the common-sense to
understand that he must make the best of a bad
job. It was at this time, and this was the only
occasion, when he spoke to me of his trial. After
two weeks’ of solitary confinement on bread and
water without bed or light, he came out emaciated
pale as a ghost, but sullen-looking and obstinate
as ever. He was then brought before the visiting
magistrate—a coarse, sensual, immoral old gen-
tleman, whose evil life has since been happily
brought to a close—and sentenced to 25 lashes at
the triangle. It was 8 o’clock of a cold winter
morning, the frost had not yet melted in the quad-
rangle where the triangle was fixed. When the
gaoler, the justice (just out of his warm bed and
impatient for breakfast), the gaol-surgeon, the
hangman, and the warders stood awaiting the
arrival of the principal figure in the piece, I and
another brought the unhappy wretch out into the
yard. Shivering he was, having been all the cold
hours of the long night in his bedless cell of stone
and as we drew off his coarse cotton shirt and
baied his white back to the morning air it
sickened me to notice how thin and woe-begone the
gaunt creature looked, as with bowed head he
s’ood awaiting further developments. Had it
been the scaffold upon which he stood there would
have been less for him to dread—only the mo-
mentary pain, and then—rest. But defter hands
than mine now seized the prisoner, and, drawing
him to the triangle bolted into the stone-wall
lashed his wrists to the beam above his head, and
secured his ankles firmly to a ring in the stone.
I The stubbornfellowuttered never a word. The cold
air seemed to strike through his thin frame and as
he shivered and cast his eye hopelessly around upon
the stolid crowd, I felt as I have never felt
before, and shall never feel again, a desire at all
hazards to throw prudence to the winds and help
a human being in the agonies of physical suffer-
ing, yet powerless to move hand or foot to help
himself. Another moment and the cruel whip is
raised and falls with hissing sound upon the
quivering flesh, curling over tho shoulders and
around the ribs ; the purple and crimson stripes
spring out clear from the white skin and the drops
of blood are already oozing from the punctures
where the knots of the lash have pierced the skin
With a groan and a cry after each stroke, and a
brief exclamation to the God who created him for
mercy where men have shown none, the
miserable man receives his allotted punishment.
A coarse towel is thrown over his shoulders, he is
unloosed from the triangle, one of the warders
remarks that “the beggar is warmer now than
when he came out of tho cell,” the justice is
driven home to his breakfast, a prisoner is sent
with a mop and a bucket of water to clean up, and
the performance is ever for the day.
* *
Is this horrible enough ? There is more to
add which I will shorten as much ns possible.
IKane still refused to work, and the gaol surgeon’
who was a moderately humane man—for a gaol
surgeon—gave him 14 days’ release from work on
half-rations. At the end of that time the recusant
fool still objected to go to the quarries, and when
the gaoler remonstrated with him on his folly, he
was ungrateful enough (or mad enough, call it
what you will) to pour out a torrent of abuse not
only upon the judge who sent him there, but
upon the gaoler who kept him there. The lan-
guage, I was told, overstepped the remotest
£o U option d bu e t n ?o If re^ eCt> and the *«*«■
before iVi • ... have the prisoner once more
befoie the visiting justice, who this time came
ccompained by a brother magistrate and nm
wh n o e bel!eved b hi of th? e Bibl ° ChristiaJl connection,"
monic nreeent “ y he .,"® w Version of the old Solo-
man ” tKi 130,1 th ° rod ’ bufc don ’t spare the
a , ’ Th e pnsoner was ordered to be again flogged
and over the unhealed sores the punishment was
p omoted to charge of a smaller gaol inland As
savages become accustomed to torturing their
and uhlm°M Tl ° f cnjoymcnt in inflicting
pain and ultimately take a keen delight in watch
mg the writhings and torments of their wretched
a caliousn°eM n tn n h gßt ' h ° ' vardcrs 1 soe 'nc d to detect
hito 1 ™ h ’, lman su tiering which developed
into a coarser and more brutal bearing towards
only of wLTh 01101 ’ 8 ' a J!ut this is the narrative
wnh . n happened (o this unfortunate prisoner
fec wni h Gn I 1 ™ n ViC ° flo^ed - became a por-
ed, wild beast. I umshment by continued soli-
oTb-ul''h!!!!" ° nl for cne'eanly habits and the use
stead of be f S< T? d t 0 ~lako him worse in-
stead of better, and his last outrage was to
vl ,i V Vh-!f a oni ' ! i 01 Wa,Ul ' at tho surgeon’s head
hcal h n /i 1 was inquiring after his patient’s
health in the course ot his rounds. Again was
tencerl SO to ei a flo ghL befor ° ,be Jnstices and sen-
tenced to a flogging. He had then all the
aj.peamnce of a madman. He was worn to a
k n ’ ndon y °. pened bis niouth to curse man-
i !?■ exumined by a physician sent, for the
pm pose, he wa? pronounced t o be sane ; and
again the triangles were erected and the sickening
spectacle re-enacted for a third time. Knowing
that I had been in the army, the gaoler had re
quested me to flog the prisoner, but I could not
muster courage to lay the lash upon the broken
l tZauZ nlof bunmnity, and soon afterwards
™ uecossaiy to resign to .-.void dismissal.
I heard subsequently that Kane was allowed to
pass the rest of his term of imprisonment without
further molestation, and at the end of it he was
I know not. 6 mt ° S ° Ciety ’ What boeame of him
*
But this J know. That the woman who
fusion of e 7d enCe V n liCh COnvicted him kept pos-
afte th b , Sr r n P ro P crt y and immediately
drover Fnlcv u-u eCame the c °m panion of the
drovei Foley, (hey were last seen living com-
ortabiy in a bush public-house in New England
respected by all who knew them. Yet I cannot
olp believing that Kane’s story was true, and that
vh-Hm S nf he ."roeb-mjured and most unfortunate
rev-n r, f hoart essn< ' ss and malice almost too
ievoicing to conceive.
* * *
Perhaps I ought to mention that the nro-
were A f th ° Court Worc never made public, nor
were the floggings witnessed by any other persons
but the magistrate and gaol officials. Whether
I& i USCd n ° W for ta ming refractory and
disobedient prisoners, as it was during my short
term ef service, I cannot say ; but as flogging is
becoming so popular in the colonies the presump-
tmn is that the triangles at “Dismal Creek” are
not suffered to become warped by disuse.
Dear Bulletin, —Concerning the hang-
ing of meat or cut apples to attract mosquitoes,
and thus keep them away fjcqin mankind. I once'
told a lady in India of the meat trick, and she
tried it on one very sultry night in Mooltan, be-
tween which and Sheol there is only tissue paper.
Unfortunately, the meat went bad, and Mrs. B
became so sick that she had to be sent to Simla
(where she wanted to go), and thus she avoided
mosquitoes. At the end of the hot weather she
thanked me for my prescription.—Hiram Abiff.
The Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society is
an institution established by the Salvation Army
for the purpose of assisting discharged prisoners
and providing them with tools of trade, &c., till
they are able to earn their own living. It has
done a great deal of good work in Melbourne.
I here are a number of discharged prisoners, how-
ever, who are very much dissatisfied with it.
They complain that they have been unable to
obtain tools of trade on application. Perhaps
this is not so surprising, as the tools in
question were crowbars, “jimmies,” revolvers
and dark lanterns. As it happens this class wili
in future be amply provided for by a new society
—the Burglars’ Benefit Society—which is now
being promoted.
An esteemed correspondent sends us the
following little idea :
.. In reference to the N.S W. Centennial, my suggestion is
that the colonists should celebrate the occasion by erecting a
finals bu,ldln .S t0 told from 3000 to 1000 people!
a Itte of h (^U h ?nm VVeSt lm Provements as regards health, on
a site ot (say) 2000 acres, which would accommodate our
surplus prisoners for the present. It is my opinion that, if
crime takes the strides it has done lately, in less than five
years two or three such places will be inadequate to our
necessity. Ail the guests at this establishment should be
made to work, and this rule might be enforced by means of
the Labour Bureau system used in Holland, wheie every man
who takes to permanent loafing is put into a tank with a
pump, and if he will not pump he drowns. I think this will
be better than building an Exhibition and burning it down
again, or 14 days, hard booze and diinking all the beer in the
country, for we all know that drunkenness is the father of
crime and idleness is its mother, and N.S.W will never be
prosperous while her politicians go boozing about the coun-
try or fuddling in the Parliamentary refreshment-riom."
Justice has a leaden heel—and moves bu-fc
slowly. AtCamooweal Q.) she got her hoof by
mistake on Theodore Mirls and then she went to
sleep. Mirls was suspected of something and
was remanded for three weeks by a humane jus-
tice because he was too ill to be brought up, and
there being no gaol lie was left to recuperate
chained to a post. Kind-hearted people came
along now and then to fee what the animal was
like, and looking in at this bush temple of justice
would advise the prisoner to “keep his pecker
up,” or would admire him from a distance as if he
were a dugong in an aquarium. He has since
committed suicide, and when he was dead he was
shoved into the tomb, boots, clothes, and all, with
a brief intimation above him to the effect that he
had been “ ordered up.”
A clue has at length been furnished re-
garding the old Bermagui mystery. Almost any-
thing will answer for a clue in N.S.W. — a stove-in
hat, a button, a flat-iron and a dream have all
been used for the purpose ; a smell of beer and a
dry bone have proved very serviceable in their
way ; and a yell, a dishonoured cheque, a disem-
bodied spirit, and the fragments of a man who had
been chawed up by a shark form a chain of evi-
dence that is almost irresistible. The present clue
comes in the form of a yell. The mate of a vessel
that was drifting into Bermagui harbour on the
night of the supposed murder remarked to his
captain that “ the sea gulls had been kicking up a
d d row this watch,” and his captain now re-
ports that the row in question must have been the
shrieks of the victims. He doesn’t say how he
arrives at his conclusion, hut some men don’t
need to arrive, they are there already, In fact,
they were born there,
CORRESPONDENCE
Jl'l MVLLKr ™ WiU return all MSS. when the
~ w specified and stamps are enclosed. But wo desire
reZSlf I®' t 0 diBtinCtly UUjeratand that « afe not
jjgg ' or the Preservation or transmission of sucli
llp You are to ° polite to be sincere
'hZ : Yo ,", r poetry is no good, and no wonder. You
The hind nlm J* W ° h,lte the mme of *ewy.
ally S nfth a°p * man wb ° Se f ' ont “ is i» *ener-
chest d ihn H 5 ° y ° U i ht t 0 be 9ft - lligh ™th an 80in.
generdlv a T*. “ ° rB ° g ° d ’ lnsteacl of which he is
watery L e “ rofulo, ‘ s verson who wears a plug hat, and
..... , y ye8 ‘ and a weak chin, and the air of a played-
aut drapers assistant...." Herbert Wardour": We said it
s " i traightwire (Port Macquarie): Your friends are
Helen R. (Mount Hope): If the gentleman who gave von
hese dems still holds a position in your him
for heavens sako, to sand his hands and hold on to it like
grim death ‘.Maurice Farjeon.” (Mdb ) • Your versro „
they don t fit in with Th e Bulletin nolfev_wh;,m -I f 1
Lord Salisbury and all other lords a wide berth, and Lotto
unnecessarily contemplate the possibility of Aus ralie nua re.
link with foreign powers. We shall never fight w JW
or Russ,a or Germany, while we mind our Own business and
keep civil tongues in our heads. Such songs are the ditties of
2-0 a.m..... James Cowlishaw”: It’s only what Ouida says-
lt you are m business, respectability is as necessary to you
as dishonesty. Every big fraud wears a frock-coat and is a
deacon, or something — “Edgar Leighton”: Boxing is a
peculiarly English institution-so is sculling. You can’t
draw any special inference as against the rest of the woHd
from the fact that Englishmen excel in those sports any mo e
than you can argue that because a Chinaman carries - tre
mendous weight of vegetables balanced on a bamboo he L a
better man than the white unaccustomed to such an exercise
i(. German is just as good a man physically as the English-
man but his sports are not altogether the Englishman’s
theF 8 i, an Eng ’. ishni;ln hits a Frenchman with his fist and
the Frenchman retorts by kicking the Englishman in the eye
the general verdict of Englishmen would be that the French
man was a coward. But, you see, the Frenchman-whose
custom ‘t is to fight with his feet, and who is trained to fight
wi h his feet just as the Briton is trained to fist-fighting—
thinks it as fair to kick as to hit, and he is right. You hit a
Lane and he butts you under the chin with his skull and
breaks your neck; you hit a nigger and he smashes in your
chest with his head. These things are all matters of national
prejudice and training ■■ p. Ainsworth”: Outspoken
comments on Royalty at the present time are nothing in
flavour to those of a former date. When the people wer
duly taught to humble themselves in lowliness and reverence
towards “their betters,” and any cuts at the behaviour or
ev, n attire of the said betters were visited with penalties and
press-gagging, the resentment would somehow burst forth in
° f a ™ atureB of BU <* an advanced description
that anything of the same kind now-a-days is mild iff com-
parison....“C.S.S.”: The chief lesson of the Mount Renle
affair has been overlooked, and it is this-tliat no woman
should, by voluntarily or carelessly breaking down the first
barrier between herself and brutal men, encourage the latte,
to deeds of which they would not dream save for her own
readiness to walk in the crooked path. A woman's best
protection ,s not the lash or the gallows, but her own virtue
and the law should recognise degrees of guilt in cases of rape
just as m all civilised countries it recognises different grada-
tions of criminality in murder cases. Criminal ass lult on a
woman who beyond all doubt was virtuous and who acted
virtuously, is an altogether different offence from criminal
assault on a woman of another sort. If under all the cir-
cumstances we hang the Mount R. nnie offenders for their
brutality towards Miss Hicks, what punishment shall we in-
vent for the men who outrage the pure and circumspect girl
or matron ? We do not remember any case, by the way, in
which such a girl or matron has been assaulted in N.S W
“ Hannibal ” : May use them. Lo not recollect your having
sent any poetry, but as we get miles of it daily, it is impos-
sible to remember any of it for long. If we did there would
be a continual vacancy in the office,and a.continual crush in the
lunatic asylum...." Gus Manley”: May do with some altera-
tion. A new title is required, also a new pcem,,. J
Campbell ” : You say jou forgive all liars. Does this charity
begin at home ? Your wild effusion is not worthy of a match.
Why not send it to the Sydney Herald people, they have
published letters of ycurs quite as foolish. They allowed
you to state as an evidence of the inability of Protection to
provide employment for the masses that only 18 millions of
men were employed in the States, forgetting that as only one
man in five in any country is supposed to be able-bodied
the full number of men capable of work at a trade would’
m the United States, be only 12 millions. You say you are
always ready to argue with your equals ; where did you ever
find them outside of the infant 5ch001?,...“ W. F. B. Jones ’•
You are wasting your genius, you should be writing Christ-'
mas pantomimes. We have seen worse stuff than
yours in pantomimes. Bat not much worse
“ Ingoldsby”: Your work has many faults. To begin with
your style is loose, and decidedly lacking in originality, and
you fail to estimate fairly the relative importance of various
incidents; and although there are some evidences of ability
m your novel we should not adjise you to publish if your
object be the acquisition of either money or fame
“ L.0.T.”: Will consider...," Censor”: There are now 2975
lunatics in the asylums of N.S.W. This, however, only
comprises about one-half of their sane persons, for no official
return is given of the number of lunatics employed on the
railways and tramways of the colony... .‘ Ernest Wilton ”:
Held over... .“Over the Cliff”: Next week.... “Barry L"•
Will probably publish.... “Razor": Will write y0u..,.'
“N G.”: Have itin hand “Cerberus”: You ask, "Which
is better as a literary production—the Sydney Herald or
Melbourne Argus ?’’ Entirely a matter of taste. We don’t
aspire to accuracy in estimating the value o'f journalistic pig-
iron. ... “ Enthusiast ”: It is merely a matter of opinion, but
judging by results we should consider “The Mikado” the
most popular of Gilbert and Sullivan’s works...." Anti
Cant”: Glad of your letter, which contains mueh valu-
able information....“R.A.”: UR A duffer “PW B ”•
No, ’there’s plenty room for graves in Australia
“Bulletin Reader”: Thanks "Hiram”: Let it rip
they-U rob the usualB “The Occasional
Poet (Cambooya): Write us again “C.BB”- Queen
Victoria s name is not Guilph, but Wettin “ J M ars
land : Henmker Heaton beat the cabman at law, the' latter
having overcharged him Kiora ” (Brisbane!- Tmul
Wilmot was a Freethinker, but she lectured chiefly unsocial
subjects, regarding which her ideas were numerouf ,Xf free.
She is said by the parsons to have died repentant, using bad
language about the Freethinkers who had deserted her
whereas the Atheism say she passed away calling for “ three
cheers tor perditum, or something of the kind*? You can
deid WhlCb R u y ° A b i>ti The , only certain fact is that she is
aeaa..... ■» is. . A little weak man may Sbe an atrocious
° . c J ne * would hit Abigail, who presumes on his phy-
sical infirm l ty to bounce pe0p1e....“ Patrick Molloy": Argue
the case on its real merits, if you like, but please don’t give
r?® ??± tba ‘ ou , r Wlve s, mothers and daughters cannot walk
the streets after dark without being insulted and having their
people SoaUed by f ° Ul ansuage ‘” aa a reaßoß for hanging


The Keferee
If there is any truth in the cable that
£lOO aside has been staked in England to bind a
match between Hanlan and Beach to row on the
Nepean for £5OO aside in June or July next, The
Bulletin contends that Beach has made a big
mistake in playing into Hanlan’s hands by fore-
going his long-stated determination not to row on
any Australian course but the Parramatta. On
tho fresh, calm bosom of the Nepean, its waters
ever flowing with the scullers—perhaps a fresh in
the river—Hanlan will have a hundred to one
better show than he would on the tidal waters of
the orthodox champion course. With age, Beach
will, in the course of nature, further increase
in avoirdupois, and it is not likely he will
again row under the Jumbo weight of 13 stone
—a weight which it will take a big boat to
carry buoyantly in fresh water. Should Beach
be defeated he can bet his bottom dollar he
will never again get a show of meeting Hanlan on
the Parramatta ; and it is to be hoped when it is
all over the champion will not have reason to cry,
“Save me from my cabling friends !” That we
saw Hanlan —“ gasbag ” though he be—at his best
on the Parramatta we never believed, and we do
not think Beach is justified in throwing a chancp
away. When in Australia, Hanlan held Beach
cheap, lived on chicken and champagne, and wor-
shipped freely at various shrines which he didn’t
oughter. Hanlan is evidently not yet by any
means smashed up, and we are heretical enough
to believe that, should he return to Australia and
train squarely for four months, the Canadian, with
youth and everything else on his side, exeept
brute strength, will beat Beach hands down.
There, now!
* * *
The Newcastle annual regatta eventuates
©n New Year’s Day, as usual, when several Port
Jackson craft will no doubt compete. Many years
since, Mr. Hyam took George Fletcher, the late
George Montgomery, and a small fleet of sailing
craft up to Newcastle, and won pretty Well every
sailing race on the card.
* * *
The Doris has again ehanged hands and
her new owner, “Dr.” Botterell, intends to keep
her under cruising gear —the only work for which
she has shown herself suited. The Camma and
those likely clippers Harpy and lolanthe are still
in the market.
* * *
Moses was anything but satisfied to see his
bails fly in the first innings of the return match,
and appealed to the umpire, a most unusual event
for this fairest of fair batsmen. “ Bight you are,”
said Moses, when the umpire decided against him,
but he walked to the pavilion with a very dubious
look on hrs countenance.
* * *
Wrestlers are rolling into Melbourne from
all quarters of the globe. The latest arrival is a
frail-looking Italian named Sali, who, with a height
of sft.' 6in., measures over 48 inches round the chest,
and weighs Isst. Sali has put up a deposit of £lO
for a match, Grseco-Roman— chewing and gouging
strictly prohibited—with the winner of the Miller-
Cannon match. This match comes off on 18th
inst., from which it would appear the men have
not left themselves much time for preparation.
Cannon says he does not think much of a man who
cannot get into condition in a fortnight or three
weeks, which sounds very much as an excuse for
the early date at which the match is fixed. If
Cannon really wants some genuine work why
doesn’t he make a fixture with Connor ?
* * *
The unfinished races at Balmain Regatta
were brought off on Saturday afternoon in an easterly
breeze. 1 At the start the Sao came into collision
with the Poyen and brought the centreboarder’s
topmast and gear down by the run. The Sirocco,
scratch, finished five-and-a-half minutes ahead of
the Assegai, 6 minutes, so the Assegai secured
first prize. The 20 to 22 feet raoe was won by the
Guinevere from scratch, beating the speedy 20
footer Nereus by 2min. Bsec. outside the time al-
lowance. The 22 feet and undes 24 feet open
boats proved a great race bet ween the Harold and
the Rosetta, the pair being sailed by the old-time
professionals, George Fletcher and Tom Colebrook
respectively. Neck and neck they raeed through-
out, and Colebrook eventually brought the Rosetta
in first some ten lengths ahead of the Harold.
* * *
Poor Teddy M‘Grade may be said to have
died at his post, for when the last was seen of
him on the doomed ship Keilawarra he was stand-
ing at the horses’ heads on her deck. Many a
good “ tip ” was given by Teddy, and his last
word§ to a fellow jockey, made on leaving the
wharf were, “ I think Bfexham will win the Sum-
mer Cup ; I have backed him and advise you to
do the same.” M’Grade was a general favourite,
and if the wagers were made known, racing men,
proverbial for their easy-come-and easy go in
money matters, would no doubt pay up and keep
the wagers good. In the event of a win it would
prove a holp for his widowed mother. Ishmael,
by First King, dam Emily, one of the horses on the
Keilawarra, ran lately under black and rose
colours, but was not successful. He wa3 bred by
Mr. Lee, and was one of the handsomest horses
seen at Randwick.
* * *
A bit of sport was brought off at Foley’s
Athletic Hall on Friday last, when Summer and
Winter met in the persons of Jack Molloy and
Sandy Ross, for a knock-out with the mittens.
Old Sandy has cultivated quite an aldermanic
bingey since we saw him last, and it looked so in-
viting that Molloy could not resist trying its
quality with a heavy stab from the left. This
roused Sandy up, and upon his leading, Molloy
stepped in and brought his right heavily on to
Sandy’s jaw, bringing the old ’un to the boards.
Sandy was knocked groggy, and within half a
minute of the men shaking hands the sponge was
thrown up in Ross’s corner. Poor old Sandy
looked more in training for a Mayor Riley’s feed
than a glove fight. King, a recent arrival from
England, then tackled Molloy, and suffered the
same fate as Sandy. Molloy is now possessed of
a good right hand that, given he is fit and well,
will put any hut the best of them in their little
cots.
* * *
A. Trinder, Newcastle (14 yards), 0. E.
Armstrong, Cootamundra (18 yards), M. Solomon,
Sydney (18 yards), competed in the final of the
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap on Saturday last,
Ilillyard, who was eligible to start, being too un-
well to do so. Trinder won by a yard from Arm-
strong in the stated time of 13 l-ssec., but the
idea that Trinder on a level track can run four
yards under “evens” is too ridiculous for com-
ment. The wiener was in the hands of Dave
Dunlop, who used to train “ Scone ” Watson.
* * *
Hutchens and Malone are matched to run
150, 200, and 250 yards on 22nd and 21th January
for £2OO aside. However, until Malone regains
the laurels he recently lost in Melbourne, it can-
not be said Hutchens is matched against the best
man Australia can produce.
* * *
The best fight at Foley’s on Saturday night
was between the lads Willis and Potter, a couple
of light’uns. Willis shapes like a tradesman, and
when it came to real fighting brought his man
doWh with a cross-oounter on the point of the jaw.
In the second round Willis was generous and @om-
menced to play light, but his opponent commenc-
ing to got rough Willis in self-defence brought'
Potter down with another on the jaw. This com-
pletely demoralised him, and W illis had him at
his meroy for the remainder of the bout. Mul-
holland, who is more of a fighter than a boxer,
then taekled Nestor, the pet of the Miller’s Point
“ fancy.” Nestor disappointed his followers, for
Mulholland outfought him in every particular and
slogged him out in a couplp of rounds. King, who
takes his knocking out with the utmost good
humour, went through his usual fate at the hands
of Gorman, and champion Foley wound up pro-
ceedings in a playful bout with Jack Molloy.
* * *
The two N.S.W. jockeys, J. Hales and R.
Ellis, head the list of winning Australasian
ioekeys on the flat. Hales has won 13 out of 39
mounts and Ellis 13 out of 44. Young Gorry
comes next with 12 out of 50.
* * *
It seems a strange thing that Cyclist
Bennett, who has refused so many inducements
to re-appear upon the racing track, should seem
so anxious to take part in the proposed “ mixed ”
match. We fancy the only good to be derived
from the affair will be a big ad. for a certain
make of bicycle. Bennett and Wood and the
Englishmen are representatives of the same make
of machine, so that whoever wins they can adver-
tise it as the winning machine of the celebrated
mixed mateh.
* * *
Donald Dinnie is still in print over his
proposed weight-putting match with Finucane.
Donald knows of 1784 methods of putting the
weight that no other man has heard of.
*
The fact that eight out of the ten of the
Englishmen were clean bowled on Saturday
is indisputable evidence of the excellence of
Turner and Ferris’ bowlhsg. The English-
men are a strong batting team, there can be no
denying, and with a splendid wicket and glorious
weather their score might reasonably have been
expected to reach 300. Had it not been for the
phenomenal stand made fayXohmann and Sher-
win, who even surprised their own men, the score
would have been very moderate indeed.
* * *
Much surprise was caused at the order the
Englishmen went in to bat in the match against
the N.S.W. Juniors, till the crowd found out that
the novelty of putting the names in a hat had
been resorted to, a little game we do not think they
will play when meeting a decent team.
* * *
The outside race for second-classers in
connection with the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
found out the fresh-water sailers, for of the five
yachts which faced the starter only the Sao and
Guinevere completed the course, which was round
a boat at Broken Bay, obligingly moored by Mr.
Black. The winner turned up in the gallant
little Sao, which finished shortly before 10 p.m.
some distance ahead of the Guinevere. That the
six-tonner ; hould have completed the course when
the Sirocco, 10 tons, and the Carina, nine tons,
failed to d< so speaks eloquently for the little ’un
and her ei husiastic skipper, Dr. Milford.
* * *
It is sa' 1 Jack Dempsey has nevdr been
defeated in the ring, and has never received a
black eye ( r a bloody nose. If such be the case,how
eomes it thar. Jack, in his portrait in lastweek’s Syd-
ney sportij g weekly, is represented as having two
black eyes, and the best part of his nose and lower
jaw km eked away 2 Jack will have a terrible
reckoning with these people some day. He is
shown as shaping in the real old Danny Mendoza
style, with his legs far enough apart for the big-
gest of Sydney aldermen to crawl through.
* * *
America is looked upon as the home of the
centreboard boat, hut if the J. S. Poyen, jr. (why
doesn’t Sir. Jewett change her name ?) is a fair
sample, Sydney has not much to learn from the
Yankees. When the J. S. P., jr., arrived in Port,
Jackson she had a wooden board about the size
we carry in a 14-foot dingy, her heavy mast had
only one shroud, and to set that up the end was
rove through the eye on the shroud-plate and
seized on to the standing part of itself, a method
that made it impossible to set up the stays at all
taut without putting on a strain sufficient to tear
the shroud-plates off the side of the boat. Her
sails were badly balanced, and Mr. Jewett soon
saw that to stand any show with the splendidly
equipped Sydney craft, he would have to refit her
from stem to stern. George Ellis’ weae the able
hands into which the craft was placed. The mast
has been put a foot further aft, the mainsail has
been cut down, two cloths added to iib, and a
steel plate 10 feet long and eight feet deep substi-
tuted for the wretched bit of wood which did duty
for a centreboard. It is also said lead has been
moulded to her keel, and that she carries shifting
ballast, but this we cannot vouch for. However,
one thing is very certain. She came with a repu-
tation for speed from America, Where they are
supposed to know all about the centreboarder,
and showed herself little better than a tub, but,
having had her fitted up in Port Jackson fashion,
Mr. Jewett is now the possessor of a smart crafc.
* * *
Poor Fred. Archer seems to have been in
the saddle almost to the very last. On October
21st he won a race in Ireland, riding for the Lord
Lieutenant, and on the 28th he was only beaten
a short head for the Cambridgeshire, riding the
Duchess of Montrose’s St. Mirin. In this latter
event the “demon” nearly brought off a very
clever coup, as the stable had a warm first
favourite in Carlton, who finished third. One of
Archer’s last mounts was on Ormonde, probably
the best horse that he or any other jockey ever
rode. Talking of that, an English bookmaker
laid £3OOO to £5O on Ormonde—a pretty high com-
pliment to horse, jockey, and owner. There are
not many Australian books who would care to
risk that amount of money in a similar specu-
lation.
* * *
Since his financial affairs got into a queer
state, Cook, the billiardist, seems to have pulled
himself together and returned to something like
old form. At latest dates he was playing a‘ ‘ spot-
barred ” game with Roberts —receiving 3000 in
11,000 —and holding his points. During one
evening’s piay, Cook put in such breaks as 101,
154, 103, 147, and 313. In a previous match
against Mitchell, Roberts cut the record by totting
up 534 il an “ all-round” break. And they once
talked of matching Weiss against the English
players!
* * #
Scott was out seven times l.b.w. during
the last English tour. Grace, Shrewsbury, Horan,
and a lot of other crack batsmen appear to find it
answer to cover their wickets with their fogs and
risk the l.b.w. Now, in the happy days ofchild-
hood, when we played cricket, the juvenile bowler
would order a batsman off the wicket if he eheso.
It was the correct thing from our point of view.
The “demon” of that"period was supposed to be
bowling at three slumps, and he liked to see ’em
before he made a start.
* # •
None but red-hot Beachites will accept
his statement that Australian amateur rowing is
better than the home article. The Americans
have tried conclusions with four-oar crews from
Oxford University and the London Rowing Club,
and on each occasion the Yanks were very badly
beaten. Professional rowing has fallen into dis-
repute in England, and its present exponents are
men of poor physique and little intelligence.
There are but a few of them even at that. But
it must he remembered that there are at least
seven times as many amateurs in England (in fair
practice) as there are in Australia, and the average
weight of the University men is greater than that
of the N.S.W. and Victorian amateur champions.
* * *
Beach-poetry is making us very ill.
“ H.E.” —we suppose it’s Lord Garington—is a
bard of promise, and when we find such stirring
lines as these we wish we were a poet, too, who
had died in the last century :
“ Your late career upon the Thataeg
Has opened the world’s eyes.
And left the Yankees in a mess,
With sorrow in their eyes.”
Not to he outdone, Bard Halloran emerges from a
silence of several days and gives us something to
go and die on. We merely quote the last verse so
that the first may he guessed at: —
“ Nay, do not slink away,
All have not equal powers*
But where he holds the sway
His glory still is ourg.
Give welcome gladly still,
And let owr greeting be,
Welcome, brave-hearted Bill!
Australia welcomes thee.”
“ Brave-hearted Bill,” is nearly as good as “ Plain
EMU.” We now claim that we possess the “two
Bills ” of the universe.
* * •
Poor Donald Dinnie’s reputation for canni-
ness—based upon his well known caution in the
scattering of small siller—is irretrievably ruined.
Donald kept possession of somebody’s horse for a
disputed debt. The fiery steed grazed in a pad-
dock attached to Donald’s rural pub. at Alphing-
ton (Vic.), and for a time the braw Scot seemed bo
have the best of the deal. Then commenced a
long wrestle between Donald and the remorseless
law. After about six trials, sundry executions,
and a few summonses for assaulting bailiffs,
Donald had to part £4O odd of accumulated penal-
ties to keep himself out of gaol. At latest date
Donald was still guarding those bones of conten-
tion which constitute the horse, and another trial
was pending. The derned quadruped is valued at
£l3. That’s where the joke comes in.
* *
Nearly all the present English Eleven
keep pubs, in their own country. Gunn and
Sherwin are the two crack goalkeepers at the
association game of football.
* * *
There must have been some mistake about
the last Sheffield Handicap at Botany. Something
must have gone wrong. Tlw favourite icon.
However, there is not much fear of its happening
again. On perusal of the reports we are forced to
the opinion that about 99 per cent, of the spieling
fraternity “ run stiff.*
* * *
After this who will say that the cornstalk
is not plucky ? Some time ago a tight-rope walker
exhibited in Yass, N.S.W. He asked for a boy to
be carried over on his hack. A boy came forward,
but ewing to some mishap the two came to the
ground and the boy got his leg broken. Some
time after another ropowalker came. He asked
for a boy ; and without the slightest hesitation a
local youngster—a good heavy boy, too—came
forward and went through the whole performance.
Judge Giblin (Tasmania.)
Mr. Justsck Giblin, whose portrait appears on
page 9, is a man of many premierships and many
honours, having during his brilliant career at-
tained to the highest position with whieh a colony
can reward its citizens. His public life began
when at the age of 24 he, la partnership with Mr.
W. Dobson, entered into business as a solicitor.
Upon the death of this partner Mr. Henry Dobson
succeeded to the vacant place, and two years Inter
Mr. G iblin accepted office as Attorsey-General in
the Wilson Administration. Upon Mr. Wilson’s
death the Ministry was reconstructed and con-
tinued under the leadership of Mr. Chapman. A
further reconstruction upon Mr. Chapman’s re-
tirement made it necessary for Mr. Giblin to take
the office of Premier and Treasurer. Since
then his terms of office have been fre-
quent, and it was while holding the At-
torney-Generalship in his own Ministry that
he accepted the puisne judgeship which he
still regains. Subsequently the Chief Justiceship
was offered him, but he refused it, and used his
influence for the appointment of its present
holder, Sir W. L. Dobson. - Mr. Giblin recently
has been acting as Chief Justice during absence
on leave of Sir W. L. Dobson, and upon Sir
George Strachan’s departure was for a time
acting-governor. The sons of Judge Giblin would
seem to inherit his talent, one of them having
lately won the “Tasmanian Scholarship,’ an
honour worth £2OO a year, and tenable for four
years. Mr. Norman F. Giblin, the recently ap-
pointed manager of the Bank of New Zealand,
Sydney, is a brother of the subject of our sketph,
THIS WICKED WORLD
In Gisborne, N.Z., litigation is carried
on to a perhaps greater extent than in any other
part of the globe. There is a lawyer to every 130
inhabitants Six hundred miles of railway is
being constructed through a howling wilderness
in Western Australia A Gippsland woman has
lately given birth to triplets for the second time.
The body of a child was brought to the Med
bourne morgue the other day. When Dr. Neild
called to inquest it he found that the performance
was already aeeomplishfed. Nobody would say
who did it. Perhaps it was the rats It is pro-
posed to send the contraband Yankee Bibles con-
fiscated by the Melbourne Customs to where they
will do most harm —the Solomon Islands
“What is the matter with you?” said a Mel-
bourne magistrate to a prisoner who was brought
before him on a charge of drunkenness. “ Spiri-
tualism, your worship, ’ was the prompt reply
The examinations in operative surgery at Mel-
bourne Hospital had to be postponed the other
day for want of a dead subject No body was pro-
curable, though £3O was offered Melbourne
Herald has got the first snake-yarn of the sea-
son. A Mr. Dunn caught a cod fish in the Goul-
burn, and found that it had swallowed a mon-
ster black snake. We would net advise Mr. Dunn
to bait with back snakes, or he may get a bite.
The Age stated that there were adults in
the steerage of the Corangamite. Whioh half of
an adult was it that completed the total 1
More Imperial Federation ! We are promised a
new paper, the Australian Military Gahette.
Hill End, N.S.W., boasts a cricket club in
which there are four blackfellows and three
Chinamen A pig that devoured a baby is said
to be on the loose at Temora, N. S. W. He is being
held over for Christmas.
* * *
Nobody knows what has become of the
£60,000 subscribed in ’72 to provide a memorial of
the National Tnanksgiving for the recovery of
“Wales.” The new giant, Winkelmeir, an
Austrian, is Bft. 6in. high. He has no particular
intellectual energy Merlatto, the Italian artist,
who, to outdo Sueci, has undertaken a 60 days’
fast on filtered water, claims; to have been able,
ever since childhood, to do without food for long
intervals, and says he fasted in London for 86
days, losing only 271 b, He says that Succi'a
mysterious liquid composition is only a mystifica-
tion, and that the truth is Succi’s stomach is
simply like his own—capable of enduring a more
or less prolonged fast “ A hundred pounds,”
says an English writer, “is by no means an un-
common price for good dogs of all breeds. I have
known a fox terrier sold for £350; £5OO I
once myself refused for a pointer, £750 was
a short time ago actually paid for a mas-
tiff, and a St. Bernard has brought £lO3O
“How to treat an Editor”—hand him the de-
canter and turn your back Prince Alexander,
when he went to Bulgaria, was penniless, barring
£2OO a year. In seven years he saved £71,000
At Durham Quarter Sessions.—John Young, sixty-
nine, pilot, for stealing a cotton shirt got five
years’ penal servitude. The Judge was a parson,
and, says an English paper, ought to be thrashed at
a cart's tail Sir Charles Warren, now head of
the London police, said that “ the brandy and
rum bottle went before the Bible into the hands
of native tribe* in British colonies.” It is plain
that the British people are really getting to know
something about Australia at last Mrs. Par-
venue : “Laura, go and aak the leader »f them
orchestras to play that sympathy of Meddlejohn’s
over again ; it’s such an awful favourite of mine,
and your father’s
Sir James Caird a Scotchman—the
highest agricultural authority in Great Britain,
says that it is an impossibility for five-sixths of
the Irish tenants to pay their rents —the whole
produce of the land would not meet the annual
extortion. But Britain sends soldiers and police
to screw the blood-money out of these miserable
wretches all the same, and keeps that sympathy
which she always shows to the oppressed for
Egypt, JSuluiand, and Burmah. And the people
of these three corntaies say unanimously that
England's sympathy is the greatest curse that
has come upon th-im since the days of Ham ben
Noah.
Eighty-five per cent, of the subscriptions
to the N.S.W. “ Patriotic ’ Goat and Asa Fund
are to be returned. Most ef the other 15 per cent,
has, we presume, been used in advertising the
names of the donors. Subscribers who want to
get their filthy lucre back mudt prove their iden-
tity if required to do so. The testimony of the
warder at the asylum will be aoeepted as conclu-
sive. If there is a breath ef real patriotism in the
fat*capitalists who, for the first time in all them
lives, unlocked their cash-boxes that Arab throats
might be eut, let them now instead of sneaking
off by the back door with 85 per cent, of their
miseiable money, repent of their crime against
manhood and freedom and hand over the dross to the
fund now being raised for the widows and children
of those who died in the Keilawarra.
Bailee versus Wales may be an interesting
case, but we are not deeply concerned at what a
weak-nerved young Sandhurst grog-seller says
about a bald-headed London rouL The people
who are so excited about Publican Bailes’ re-
marks in re sinner Wales’ morals can’t have read
much history, or they would know that hardly
one British prince for 200 years has had any morals
at all, and that Wales is only a rather good speci-
men of his class. Had a stronger-spined man
than Bailes taken up the case he might have made
the people of Victoria ashamed of their frantic
desire to invite out to this country a man of the
Wales class, but the miserable Dutch-couraged
grog-seller caved in when he heard that a pack of
his grovelling constituents were indignant at his
utterances—a report which, by the way, turns out
to be almost entirely a lie, Bailes now says he
didn’t mean to say anything bad about Wales,
and the lickspittles of the Victorian Assembly
pheered him as he made his abject apology.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Thbatb® Royal. — ‘ Oaly Diiafc “ p. 16
Alhambra Music Hall.—Minstrel*
Apollo HALLfKidntan’s Buildings)—SfcraßburgCloek .
Nbw Mabokic Hall—G. S’. Root's Oftnt itsa .. ~
Country Tour: Wingham—Lynch Family Bellringers „
“ Only Dust,” a eomedy of jalap, vanity,
and worldly shams, deserves better luck than it
is getting at Sydney Royal—but not much better.
There is no particular hero in the piece, for Dr.
Bolus, though the most prominent male charac-
ter, is not constructed that manner. He is an elderly
physician, a mild, fat, fussy, beaming individual,
whose only patient seems to be a dead bricklayer,
and whose assets consist of very little except his
second wife, his daughter, and his mortgaged
furniture. A good young man of the shaky, un-
easy order of architecture has his eye on the
daughter, and Bolus, backed by liis' ambitious
wife, tries to act the mercenary father. This is
hard enough for an individual of his feather-bed
character, but when the young man’s parents a-
rive to take stock things get worse. Mrs. Bolus,
however, throws herself manfully into the breach.
She persuades her visitors that the 16 creditors
who are howling for eash downstairs are all
wealthy nobleman waiting for the physician’s ser-
vices, and only howl on account of their inward
agony ; she spreads £lOO which the doctor had
raised on the furniture all round the room, until
it looks as if the “ Man made of Money ” had
been wrecked thereabouts, and she passes off a
fifteen shilling Ghromo as a Correggio. The visitors
consist of a very fnll-blown lady, and her washed-
out lugubrious husband, who looks as if he wantel
to weep at the sight of his own legs, and this pair
of vulgar frauds get the blind staggers as they look
on all these e 1 lences fw e ilth. Finally Mr". Bolus
borrows a supernaturally pompous flunkey from
next door and sends him on to deliver to the
doctor a letter from a countess and to announce
the arrival of seven earls and a duchess who are
all supposed to be ill with measles down stairs,
and the work is completed. The ex-sugar-broker
and his wife are convinced that from earliest
mom to nigh;, mounted couriers are spurring
from east, west, north, and south ia eearch of the
learned and solemn Bolus ; and that in the street
below the litter conveying the duke with the
broken leg is raced by that bearing the marquis
with the dislocated spine, all speeding in rearoh
of the healer; and when they learn in addition
that the great, man is writing a book on “ The
Inner Ipecacuanha of the Hippopotamus” they
flop in silent awe.
** * .
The remaining two acts show a woeful
falling off. Mr Samuel Puddicombe the awe-
stricken sugar-broker tries to play the doctor's
own game, but he only succeeds in making 120
differed kinds of a fool of himself, and gets
laughed at by his ooal-heaving brother. His wife
whose intellect was shattered and blighted by the
“ Inner Ipecaeuanha of the Hippopotamus” re-
solves to show that she is also possessed of
scientific knowledge, and discourses learnedly of
neuralgia in the legs, and by way of outdoing
Bolus in the world of fashion she abducts a small
shoe-black and polishing his phis with his own
blacking, starts him as a negro page. She hires
12 flunkeys in order to crush her rival in one act,
wnd dresses them up like green goblins of the
Middle Ages—and then her brother-in-law bowls
the doctor out at the last moment by expia'ning
that he can’t pay for his coals. After this the
good : hnmourod ooal-heaver tips his long white hat
over one rakish eye, smites his yellow waistcoat,
and says he will give £20,000 to the young couple.
Bolus had just offered to settle £2,000,000 on them,
having resolved in a frensy to go the whole hog,
but he utters a moral sentiment, and the curtain
falls.
* * *
Signora Majeroni was excellent as Mrs.
Bolus, and the other characters were well filled,
Mr. Grevilie especially making a success in the
part of Samuel Puddicombe. We reserve the rest
of our blessing till next week, but we are prepared
to take a large red affidavit that the company is
worthy of a vastly better piece than “ Only Dusk”
## # #
James Ralston, alias “Jim the Penman,”
dies nightly to admiring crowds at Sydney Opera
House. We once knew another man whose sur-
name Was Ralston, and his way of writing signa-
tures showed whole oceans of genius. They were
of his own name every time,but the waiting looked
as if it had been done by a Rotorua earthquake
operating on the business end of a fire-shovel. It
was ttie copyright joke in that office to tell a new
clerk that the signature—which no living man
ever read at sight—was that of Jonathan J.
Juggins, and the innooent youth would take an
early opportunity of raising a tornado by address-
ing the signator as Mr. Jtjuggins. But the signa-
ture of this worthy was not so bad as that of a
Sydney bank-manager who one day signed and
issued, a lot of new notes. Such an atrocious ap-
pearance did his writing bear that before mid-day
a man wa3 in the lock-up for trying to pass one of
these notes, which an evening paper pronounced
to be “an exceedingly clumsy forgery, too bad to
escape instant detection. ’ That manager did not
aign many more notes; the bank rose appre-
ciation of the fact that his writing was not suit-
able for exhibition purposes.
* * *
But it’s time we said something of the
show. Mr. Frank Cates seems to have infused a
lot more of humanity into, and to have extracted
a heap of rigidity his Louis Peraival, who
uow really looks aishe had otioe lived and loved,
before his soul and body bad been played up»n by/
a sere*© frost. As to the other characters it is
not possible that they could have improved much
on their first essay in this drama in Sydney.
Which is more than we have ever said in praise
of anyone since nurse first exhibited to our enrap-
tured gaze—but there, you know how it is your-
self most of you.
* * *
Minnie Palmer will delight the dudes at
this resort on Boxing night. Already bouquets
are advancing to a fabulous price in anticipation
of her advent.
## * #
We desire above all things to be chari-
table. It is not our practice to drive the hind leg
of dark malignity into the digestive organ of
genins, and we would like if we could to spread
the perpetual fruit of the cow over the actor’s
iwatfc —but we oan’ts. We have witnessed “ Called
Bask at Sydney Gaiety, and we regret to say
that, we are unable to lift up our voices and de-
cln»e that all is O.K. Mr. Sheridan takes the
past of Maoani, and makes that conspirator a pon-
derous, beetld-browed desperado who is perpetu-
ally hanging on to a stitotoo and saying in hollow
a entente, “Beware !” He commits the first murder
in business-like style, and then Mr. Taylor, in t.ho
ebametor of Gilbert Vaughan, walks In with an
easy stride as if he were a policeman instead of a
blind and helpless stranger who hail stumbled
into a den of assassins, and kneels down alongside
th« body. In the second scene the conspirator is
heavier, darker, and looks more than ever as if lie
ought to be hanged at sight. He haunts Vaughan
remorselessly and sit.s about like a conundrum
ended up, or an Egyptian hieroglyphic cocked in
the air, while that gentleman is making love to
Pa uline, till at last some faint of la is
villainous and depraved “mug" reach even lior
clouded intellect, and she has a vision. It
is a gorgoous affair of the lurid, smoky order,
and prominent in the foreground is Macari
dancing among an assortment of vegetables. The
natural result is that Pauline gets madder than
ever, and Macari becomes more and more unpleas-
ant. His voice gets raspier, he grows depraved
and tells lies, and he champs his jaws when he is
found out, and tells his enemies to “ Beware.” He
visits Vaughan, and muses in a whispered roar
while that gentlemen fetches his half-insane wife,
and from his language it is evident he fears his
dire Italian apple-cart is in danger of being over-
set. And so it is. The dramatist at this point
takes another liberty with the text of the story by
again introducing the vision of the murderer and
the vegetables, and as the result of this and one
or two other incidents Macari is bowled out on his
next visit, and rotires with a haughty Guy Faux
stalk, and with his poisonous nose held high up in
the air.
* * a
We did not wait to see the last act, so we
camgrt say for certain how Macari dies. He
passes away somehow or other we are certain, but
whether he goes in bathing and a oral) gets hold
of his foot and keeps its grip tall mortification en-
sues, or whether he hauls down a dish of boiling water
over himself, or is poisoned by some tinned salmon,
or Rough on Rat s Sand wishes, or wc are unable
to explain. Vaughan goes on a journey to Siberia
and comes back to live happily ever afterwards,
and on his return, according to the programme,
“ Macari plays a bold game,” so it is possible that
he takes it up and go@3 alone with an ace in each
boot, or tries to scoop the pool aud bo't , but: F
scalped just as he fleos through The doorway. lie
was just the sort of person to try some little more
tricks like these, and his fate is, after all, a matter
of indifference.
** ' *
Haring already done justioe to the chief
conspirator we have only to mention that Miss
Davenport took the part of Pauline w ith moderate
success. While watching her wo came to the con-
clusion that she is the only lady we have yet seen
who can make her mouth a complete square. Mr.
Taylor, ns Gilbert Vaughan, was a failure as a
blind man, and was still worse when he recovered
his sight Mr. J. A. Nunn made a decided suc-
cess in the part of Arthur Kenyon, and deserved a
bettor character than any m “ Called Back,” and
the rest of toe parts were moderately filled—very
moderately.
## # #
Dr. Lynn, at Sydney Academy, plays there
for only a short season, as he is due at Melbourne
for Christmas week. He is a clever man ;he puts
half-erowns through hats where never cqins went
before and never will go again ; he draws cab-
bages out of places where such articles, would
never be expected to hide ; and, cleverest of all,
he fills the Aeademy with an ecstatic assemblage
of humanity. The vanishing lady is still the chief
attraction. Dr. Lynn should extend this feature
of his show. If he could run it by steam and
vanish mothers-in-law, amateur singers, Abigail,
Dibbs, and the deficit, he would get a double
encore every time, so long as a mother in-law, a
Dibbs, and a deficit could be discovered in the
whole wide world. The vivisection show is less
clever khan horrible. The doctor should leave
that work bo the butchers, or olse do it a lot more
eleverly.
## # #
Signor Majcroni makes “happy Christ-
mas ” for Mr. G. L. Goodman, treasurer of Sydney
Theatre Royal by donating him a benefit on the
23rd hist. The Signpr has found “Goodie ” to be
so elever in conserving other people’s money that
he naturally desires him to have some more of his
own to look after.
## # #
Brigadier-General M‘lver, who, it may be
remembered, and even believed, “forced the
hand of Lord Derby, and compelled Prince Bis-
marek to show his cards,” will inundate the intel-
ligence of his audience on Thursday, 22nd, at
Sydney Protestant Hall, with a flood of interest-
ing Information on various nicely- assorted topics,
beginning with “ the coming European war ” and
ending up with “ a description of comrades (dead
we suppose) en a battlefield.”
## # #
It is not true that the so-called Opera
Carnival in Melbourne is supported by all the
musical talent of that city. Mrs. Palmer,' Madame
Christian, Armes Beaumont, Gordon Gooqh, and
nearly all the other principal vocalists hold aloof,
on the ground that a bazaar is an undignified way
of raising the £3OOO necessary to secure Mr.
Ormond s £20,000 to endow' a chair of music, and
that in making the offer Mr. Ormond intended
that the money should be subscribed.
## # #
Melbourne worriers of the Divine William
have been discussing the question : “ Was Shake-
speare a Custom-House officer ?” There is reason
to believe he was, and that his wife assisted him
in the business. Mark what he said of Cleopatra,
evidently with Mr 3. S. in his mind’s eye, “Age
cannot wither her nor mistom stale heclnfinite
variety. Again, it was evidently the seizure of
some rery orerproof rum which suggested Ham-
lets soliloquy, “ This spirit which I have seen
may be the Devil.” Yet again, the words “spirits
rrom the vasty deep ” evidently refer to certain
goods in transit. Oh, Shakespeare was in the
Customs right enough. Many and many a half-
sovereign must have been slipped into the hand
that wrote “Macbeth.”
## # #
A real rousing burlesque lias taken the
place of “ Silver Guilt ” at Melbourne Opera
Douse. 'Which its name is “ YouDg Fra Diavolo.”
In this Mr. Royce plays his old London Gaiety
character of Giacomo, and Mr. Robert Brough is
Beppo, a lively coadjutor in crime. They keep
things moving from start to finish. Mr. Wardo
dances as no other man in Australia can dance,
and Miss Fanny Kobina—the dainty Diavolo —has
to do everything twice over and still leaves her
admirers hungering for more The rest of the
company have caught a little of the principals’
enthusiasm, and, judging from present appear-
ances, burlesque is likely to be a thriving fixture
under the Brough-Boucicault management. “ Vice
Versa” holds its own as a first piece, and
would go better than it did a month ago, if that
were possible. This is about as much jam as wo
over put on at one helping.
*V- Jj.
7V "TV' "TV
Horatio Gilbert Parker has gone to Tas-
mania, having failed to persuade R. S. Smyfch'c to
bring him out in Melbourne. The much-trftveiled
probably does not Indievo in Shakesperian reciters’
who have been described as men who would not
play the smallest part well on the stage, yet do
not hesitate to attempt the entire cast of charac-
ters, male and female, tragic and comic, on the
platform.
## # #
Two years ago Mr. Francis Ormond offered
£20,000 for the endowment of a chair of music at
Melbourne University conditionally on the public
supplementing his cheque with another three
thou, within 12 months. The total amount of the
first year’s subscriptions was twopence and a littli
over, so Mr. Ormond gave the music-loving Vic-
torians another year’s grace. Now, in their last
extremity, they are holding a Grand Operatic
Carnival in the Exhibition Building. It is to
extend over three weeks, and considering that
£lOOO was taken on the opening day, in shilling
admissions and fancy goods, the Chair is in a fair
way to be set up. The Carnival is a somewhat
live affair, especially about the witching hour of
0p m. Then the 500 ladies and gentlemen who
bleed the gentle visitors march around the build
ing in costume. There are “lolanthe” fairies,
“Bohemian Girl” peasants, “La Sonambula’s ”
with candles, “Carmen” gipsies, and a lot more
of it. The dresses are above the average level of
oostumery at bazars, and if the ladies inside
them had new faces aud figures, this procession
would be out-and-out dazzling. It is very evident
however, that the music enthusiasts of Melbourne
are a rum-looking lot. Plenty of side-shows help
things along, and, take it altogether, the man who
gets in on the “nod” and doesn’t buy anything
has a fair evening’s entertainment for his money.
MINNIE PALMER.
The yarn is told as new and original. A
Melbourne hatter sent round to the Theatre
Royal, requesting “the favour of complimentary
tickets.” He got his tickets and enjoyed the
performance immensely. Next day the Trium-
virate sent a delegate to their friend, requesting
“the favour of a hat” They had him for the
“ tile ” and also enjoyed the performance im-
mensely. It was a case of the hatter hit. This is
either a fossil fact, or a brand-new lie, we don’t
know which.
•ft* *7v* 'Tv*
Carrie Swain, the latest American novelty,
is selling freely at Melbourne Theatre Royal.
“The Tomboy” is a five-act oomedy drama
“ written expressly ” for Miss Carrie.” This is
what the hill says. Many are of opinion, how-
ever, that Miss Carrie was expressly born, nur-
tured and educated for this particular comedy-
drama. It is a work which puts no strain upon
the spectator's intellectual faculties. The thread
of the Narrative can be dropped at 8.30 and picked
up again at 9 45 without marring the spectator’s
enjoyment. All he has to do is to “ plank his
greed,” secure a seat, look at the lovely Tomboy,
and wonder what she’s going to do next. Miss
Swain may be said to drop upon the public like a
hundred of bricks —
O ! make no blooming error,
This young lady is a “ terror,”
She is full of fun and frolic
As an egg is full of meat ;
Though merry, young and oharming
Carrie’s very quite alarming—
She is sometimes on her head,
And she’s sometimes on her feet.
In a general way the Tomboy is kicking off some-
body’s hat, fondling her blind mother, jumping
out of a four storey window, dressing up in boy’s
clothes, singing gentle lullabies to a child, or
swimming across the Atlantic Ocean with said
child on her back. Any spare moments are filled
in with somersaults and jigs. But there are two
styles of getting through this sort of work, and
Mies Swain has the style that takes. She sings
her songs as though they same straight from her
wild untutored heart, and dances as though she
gloried in the job. She can be pathetic, too, and
bring the salt tear-drop to the gallery boy’s eye.
There is ail about and around her performance a
rough spontaneity, conspicuously absont from tha
kittenishness ” of Miss Minnie Palmer. And yet,
and yet—well, there is only one Maggie Moore.
Miss .Swain s supporters at the Royal are mora
than equal to what they have to do. That isn’t!
much. As a blind and phenomenally credulous
mother Mrs. George Gordon deserves special com-
mendation. The piece is well mounted, and, as
the present season only lasts for three weeks in
all, business is bound to bo good right away
through. Three weeks is nothing to anyone lika
Miss Carrie. She could “do it on her head, yen
worship.”
## # #
Life is short—and art is not very extended
—with the English music-hall artists. The “great
Georgo Leybourne ” died a broken-down old man
ot something under forty. In his case, perhaps,
the wonder was that he lived as long as ho did-
But within the last lew months there have shuffled
olf two “ celebrities ” who might reasonably havo
boon expected to roach middle ago. Most young
new-chums, expiating past sins with a spell of
colonial experience, ’’remember Frod Coyne and
Fred Albort. The former gave an admiring world
Mary Ann, Mary Ann, I’ll toll your mar,” and
‘ The Swing went a little bit Higher.” The latter
was the “renowned topical vocalist,” who com-
posed his own songs, so called, and talkod them
at the audience with a deal of inappropiate ges-
ture. Both men died from catching slight colds.
So, too, did Charles, who assisted his
massive wife in singing duets, They were gone
to-day and here to-morrow, as tho widow O’Brien,
put it. Evidently the vitiated atmosphere in
which a music-hall star spends his evenings plays
the dickons with chest and lungs, and is a more
deadly enemy than tho drink supplied by in-
fatuated admirers.
## # #
Why Lord Carington failed to do the dnty
for which the colony pays him, by refusing to ex-
tend his patronage to Moos, and Madamo Pous-
sard is not exactly clear ; but it is certain enough
that his abstention from the show was the signal
for unmitigated condemnation by the Sydney
dailies. This oensure in the case of the violinist
was so manifestly unfair as to escape (ho imputa-
tion of-malice only by its own inherent signs of
incompetency. As a violinist Mons. Poussard can
play three times round lots of men who having
secured vice-regal patronage have also secured
the most, extravagant praise from the daily press.
Toadyism infects even newspaper criticisms of art
in the City of tho Beautiful Harbour. Mons.
Poussard’s next concert is on Friday, the ITthiiwt*.
Those persons who love music will go there, those
wdio love to be where the Governor is will go else-
where.
## # #
Fryer aiid Co.’s circus menagerie, engi-
neered by Bert Willison, have had a good run
through Western Australia. They go next to
S.A., showing at the Port on the 30th December
and Adelaide Ist January Sara Berhardt haa
been presented with 6000 acres of land by tho
Argentine Republic. We’d better give Minniet
Palmer our beautiful harbour as a set-off It is
said that the popularity of “ Indiana,” lately per-
formed at the Avenue Theatre, London, was
entirely owing to a well-known and highly attrac-
tive wife of an English peer who nightly displayed
her comely limbs in tights as one of the chorus.
Habigle, Hem-P., got ’arf a ’earing hat
Cootamundrer.
Jubilee Young is about to be created Earl
of Never Never.
Where Protection would be bliss ’tis folly
bo be Wise.—Proverb by The O’Sullivan.
Another distinguished colonial lias arrived
in London. Mrs. John E. i.'edinond has presented
her hub. with a young patriot.
Another rich find is reported from Mount
Morgan. The Excise officers struck good beer in
the claims of Mrs. I’hibbs and Mrs. Bourke.
Dan. O’Connor’s name was omitted by tha
D.T. in its report of the picnic to Beach. Tho
journal’s apology was quite unnecessary, for
everyone knows Dan was there, and as for Dan’s
spache—well, that’s supposed to be understood
too. *
The Jennings-Dibbs Government are at
their old tricks—ordering the expenditure during
the recess in direct opposition to the expressed
wish of the people. An “ Imperial Exhibition ’
is the latest discovered means of piling up tha
national overdraft.
Mr. C. J. Buckland, who has been seleotod
to proceed to England for the purpose of putting
on to the London market certain well-known
Queensland and other mining properties, was
entertained at dinner the other evening by a'num-
ber of his fellow members of the Atbenroum Club,
the festive board being presided over by the Hon*
Edmund Barton. Should the present inclination
on the part of the English public to invest in Aus-
tralasian mining stocks be sustained, the colonies
will reap much solid benefit from Mr. Buckland’s
trip, as among the properties with which he has
to deal are undeveloped mines located on lines of.
reef which have secured North Queensland her
present pre-eminence in the mining world. It is
to be hoped, also, for the sake of the ultimate
reputation of Australia as a field for mining capital
that the same good fortune which has attended
many of the companies for which Mr. Buckland is
responsible will attend his present ventures. It
was ho who, in the youth of the N.S.W. silver-
industry made the first move in the direction of
importing from America the latest silver-smelting
appliances and Die best skilled labour ; and the
shares of the huge Broken Hill Co.—an enterprise
floated by him—originally £9, are now worth and
soiling at £7O to £6O.
As the public know, nine men are now
under son fence of death at Darlinghurst prison
Sydney. The sjze of the present permanent gal-
lows at that institution is such as only to allow
of the simultaneous execution of two men—and
there has for many many years been in Sydney no
occasion on which more than two criminals have
had their necks judiciously broken at once. As it
would perhaps be rather too much for* the
stomachs of even the N.S.W. public to have the
hangman choking Ins victims and carrying their
eoffins off under his arm two at a time for a
whole morning, it has been thought best to make
preparations which will permit of the execution
of the whole nine men at once, and instructions
with that view havo been issued to the Sheriff.
This latter official is already being worried night and
day by would-be spectators of the forthcoming
hideous orgie of dislocated vertebrae—by men
who would gaze on the horrid sight of a noseless
hangman slaughtering the sons of old women who
wait the while outside the prison gates—men who
would feast their eyes on the hell-like spectacle of
the official man-slayer cutting down his corpses
and coolly humping them off, as a butcher humps
away the body of a slaughtered sheep. Such
is the civilisation of the so-called Nineteenth
Oentnry.


Pepper And Salt
Merry Christinas is in hail, the season of
carnival and gorge, time of reckless revelry and
concrete cake. Now poultry is nurtured with
wondrous care ; the haughty turkey lives a life of
luxury and ease, the common hen and the lowly
duck are treacherously induced to eat, drink, and
make merry. But it is the staid old goose that is
the main object of popular anxiety. This in-
teresting feathered songster may be found in every
family to day, being feted and feasted till she
has inherited a kingdom ; but the contemplative
biped is of a perverse, stubborn disposition, and it
is interesting to note that, though every oppor-
tunity is given her to acquire an aristocratic
obesity, she grows more spare and spiteful every
day, becomes slovenly in her habits and neglect-
ful of her appearance, and developes into an ex-
pensive epicure, tickling her appetite with luscious
bits, eating only dainty, indigestible trifles, and
regarding wholesome food with royal scorn. The
restless endeavour to improve the condition of the
tame goose has failed, resulting only in disap-
pointment and regrets. We have had a gander
chained to a log in our yard, and surrounded by
the fat of the land, those many days. We hoped
to see him grow corpulent and contented, and
fostered him like a teething infant. We spoon-
fed him with farinaceous diet at regular intervals,
and watched his health with sympathetic love ;
but the wretched bird is waning away and waxing
thin like unto a consumptive kanaka. He came
to us a fairly handsome, healthy gander, but now
he is a wreck, a very monument of desolation.
His plumage has come out by the roots, his neck
is nude and knotted, and scurvy is pillaging his
sparse frame of its scanty juice. Three lank, in-
glorious feathers mark the spot where a tail once
flourished, and when he rears up you’d think he
was a worn-out hand-broom on crutches. All day
he mopes, gaunt and grim, brooding o’er his pris-
tine splendour We feel we can never bring our-
selves to slay the morose, dyspeptic fowl; we must
make him a present to our aunt at Dapto.
* * *
The various branches of the Geographical
Society of Australasia have received a communi-
cation from Lord Carington conveying the intel-
ligence that Her Majesty the Queen has graciously
permitted the Society to assume the title of
“Royal” :
There are people who, if allowed to, would
paste advertisements on theirmother’s tombstones.
Read this from a Melbourne paper
“ Fire! Fire ! Fire at Beeston Mills. Fifteen hundred
persons thrown out of employment. In consequence of this
terrible calamity we are enabled to offer job-lots of miLinery,
&c., &c., at prices ridiculously low.”
And so on, as though they gloated over the
calamity, and were only sorry it was not greater,
so that they could have got more job-lots to sell.
If, by any stretch of imagination these persons
could be pictured as angels remaining in Heaven
—they would have been sure to have been on the
side which paid best —after Lucifer and his fol-
lowers were cast out, then we might safely go on
to picture the celestial battlements as covered
with advertisements something like the follow-
ing :
“ ROLL UP ’ ROLL UP !
“Now is Your Time (Ob Eternity?).
“ In consequence of the eviction of the Great Archangel
and a third of the population of Heaven (from henceforth
to writhe in everlasting Sheol. Hosanna !) the enterprising
Angels Smarty and Hardasnails are enabled to offer at a
tremendous reduction from cost price a superb collection of
Crowns, Thrones, Harps, Shawms, Trombones, &c., &c.
(secured by them while the rest of the inhabitants of Heaven
were fighting). Remember these must be disposed of to make
way for a new stock of saints—expected to be created soon-
heavenly outfits.
“Do not miss this chance. You may never have another.
“ Smarty and Hardasnails,
“ Angels and General Dealers.”
* * *
The Victorian Assembly became a bear-pit
during the discussion on the Waterworks Con-
struction Encouragement Bill. 'I his patriotic
measure “ provides for 250,000 acres in the Mallee
country (with river frontage) to he handed over
to the Messrs. Chaffey Bros, for the establishment
of an irrigation colony.”—
A consignment of Bibles sent from Sydney
to Melbourne ha 3, as the world already knows,
been confiscated by order of the Commissioner of
Customs on the ground that they are an American
piracy of tke Revised Edition. The Commissioner
says he will not destroy them because of their
sacred character. Just think of it —a holy Ameri-
can steal! If this God-fearing official were to
distribute a portion of them among the various
police courts of his colony he would be doing a
good action. The use of directories and diction-
aries for swearing upon is considered to have de-
preciated the value of oaths about ninety per
cent, during the last two or three years. How-
ever, it can’t be denied that the Revised Edition
is not as good for Police Courts as the old-
fashioned Bible. The prospect of going to Sheol
if he prevaricate, doesn’t strike the same healthy
old terror to the soul of a ' haky witness as the
threat of Hell did. At tbe same time it must be
admitted that the Revised Edition is an improve-
ment on the Directory and the Age annual.
* * *
Henry Ward Beecher, in answer to a
question put to him concerning the Trinity, said
some time since to a congregation of ministers and
students for the ministry that “ He believed the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost were separate per-
sons, but what was their mode '•of getting along
together he did not know.” If we made such a
statement we would be called irreverent and de-
nounced in every little so-called Christian Hair-
Oil and Holiness Society in the country as blas-
phemers and sons of Belial. But, no matter—
what we want to know is why Henry Ward
Beecher, who is a shining light of his own variety
of religion, doesn’t know how the members of the
Trinity “ get along together,” when every little
bush-parson and bible-thumper throughout the
Australian group is acquainted not only with this,
but can tell you the division of labour among the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost — and ivhat each
thinks of the other ! Mr. Beecher is behind the
times.
Two mates occupied the same sleeping
apartment in a Rockhampton boarding-house.
One was a Caledonian with a sentimental turn of
mind. This particular evening before retiring to
“ rust ” (Doric) he, with “ a voice of dolorous
pitch,” read for his friend Poe’s “ Annabel Lee.”
During the recitation the other man wept salt
tears. The next morning the reader could only
find his waistcoat in which to make his public ap-
pearance. The audience had also cleared. ’Tie
supposed he took this method of revenging him-
self for the agony he endured while listening to a
beautiful poem read with a Scotch accent.
Mr. Judge-for-a-short-time-by-special-com-
mission Stephen does not seem to be quite posted
up in his work, and, like Mr. Salomons, requires
a little information from Judge Windeyer with
regard to sentencing prisoners. When, for in-
stance, he sentenced Vere Hunt for his share of
the Sydney Lands Office frauds, he ordered him
“ three years’ hard labour.” “I am not able to do
any hard labour,” pleaded the prisoner, “ and ask
you to make it imprisonment only.” “Oh,” said
his Honor in a tone of evident surprise, “ I always
understood that ‘ hard labour ’ meant a mitigation
of the sentence.” Nice sort of young man Mr.
Stephen must be to try prisoners by commission
or any other way! Splendid chance a criminal ha 3
in N.S.W. courts when Judge Docker thinks that
he is not able to give less than 10 years for embez-
zlement, and Mr. Stephen thinks hal'd labour a
“mitigation of the sentence.”
Tidings of joy for this lucky society
Through the good Governor came,
Now it can flourish, without impropriety,
“ Royal ” in front of its name.
Charming variety ! Proud notoriety
Can this Society claim ;
Rejoicing before in a sober mediety,
Now we are filled with a fearful anxiety
Lest all the savants renounce their ebriety—
That is the danger of fame.
Tidings of joy for this happy Society
Through the good Governor came—
Everything “royal” goes down with sassiety,
Grovel’s its end and its aim ;
Though this Society swells with satiety,
We, who are watching the game,
Must, in a spirit of cold contrariety,
Beg to express our disloyal dubiety
Whether this title (excuse our impiety)
Isn’t a prefix of shame .
Shorthand Notes, by our own Reporter.
“ You’re a liar, you’re another, villain, dotard,
fool —
Rascal, rogue, now touch me if you dare !”
Legislators carry on like little boys at school,
Decent folks can only blush and stare.
Pelting hats with paper balls, standing on the
seats —
Chaffing, howling, cursing, raising h —l;
Take any lot of larrikins who spit about the
streets,
They’d do the business every bit as well.
Out upon such senators—who neither spin nor
toil—
With nothing to commend ’em but their jaws ;
What’s a country coming to when aliens g-rab the
soil,
And empty-headed blackguards make its laws?
THE LADY, THE UMBRELLA, AND THE POET.
“It was at the unveiling of Kendall’s Monument. I was there with my umbrella. Lady
Carington was there without her umbrella. All of a sudden it came on to rain like anything. (I
am a poet, and like to use striking similes. lam also considered to be something like Parkes, only
not so plain. My poetry is something like his too his is the murmuring of the stream, mine is
more like the gurgling of a gutter.) Well, it was raining, and would you believe it, her Ladyship
ac ually allowed me to ’old my umbrella over ’er ’cad.”
“ After the rain was over, I says to her Ladyship, says I, “ Does your Ladyship see this um-
brella ? ” ‘My word I does,’ say she. “ Well,” says I, “ this umbrella ’as kept the rain off your
Ladyship’s'ead, and if you’ll allow me I shall keep it as a souveraineer.” ‘ Certainly,’ says she
gratified like. So I keeps it in a glass case and shows it to all my friends with a proper pride,
and I’m goin’ to write a poem, ‘On Some Water Squeezed out of a Umbrella Which Kept
the Rain off Lady CARINGTON.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Wales” has been invited to Victoria ;
but he’ll see Victoria dead first.
Aaron Waxman is back. To the day of
his death he will regret the fact thatM’Quade was
on tap during his absence.
Just now the champion bicyclist, champion
sculler, champion wrestler, and champion sprinter
are all in Sydney. So is the champion liar.
Walter Coonan, Esq., M.L.A., is at Tee-
tulpa, digging for gold. The honourable member
will find it harder work than making out bills.
Sheriff Cowper entertained Chief Justice
Darley at .1 inner last week. We don’t like the idea
of dining with the Sheriff. It looks too much like
supping with the devil.
Potts and Slurk again ! A Macleay
(N.S.W.) paper politely refers to its rival’s staff
as “the pusillanimous curs who run that eccen-
tric apology for a sixth-rate newspaper.”
It is said there is very little chance of
either the German Emperor or the Empress sur-
viving the winter. The Emperor is so feeble that
he now never eats unless in the presence of the
doctors.
When L. L. Smith was orating the other
night, a member of the Victorian Government
caustically enquired: “Don’t you feel well?”
Unlike most Parliamentary questions, that had
the distinct merit of being rather funny. But
L. L. turned the laugh by quoting from his own
pamphlet : “ The honourable member has ‘ feel-
ings akin to the following.’ ” What a mercurial
doctor it is to be sure !
The row between Judge Windeyer and
Salomons, Q.C., occurred thus. Salomons said he
had come to tell Windeyer his reason for accept-
ing the Chief Justiceship. “ You had no reason,”
quoth the genial smiler.
The mother of F. H. Stubley, who died of
sunstroke on the way to Croydon goldfield, is
about to get a testimonial. Frank struck a patch
of £lOO,OOO or so, but spent it. His mother is in
necessitous circumstances.
Henry George was a gas-mspector at the
time he was turning the light on “Progress and
Poverty.” We don't wonder at a" man who had
seen the ruin brought on respectable people by the
gas-meter writing a book on Poverty.
“ Sir John Robertson is to be presented
with a testimonial.” It should take the form of a
scroll on which the third commandment should
be printed in illuminated letters Is it, by the
way, the third commandment that deprecates
the constant use of strong language ?
In the long ago, ere Albert Edward was
20, he, while enjoying unwonted freedom during
a visit to Ireland, met a eharmiDg Irish girl and
eloped with her. They were tracked; the girl
was sent home and A. E.’s dream of bliss rudely
dispelled by an application of the paternal boot.
In returning thanks for his election as
Mayor of Sydney, Alderman Riley said that “ in
that moment of victory he felt saddened and too
full to speak.” Lots of people at Sydney Town
full are always too full to speak. However,
they’re not sad. They leave that to the ratepayers.
Sheriff Cowper, the genial “ Charley,” has
long felt that the Mayor of Sydney is not a suffi-
ciently gorgeous being, and sq has sent round the
hat for money to provide His Worship with a gold
chain of office. If we were Mayor Young we’d ob-
ject to the sheriff putting anything around our
neck.
The fat, rubicund Dowager Duchess of
Montrose has quarrelled with her long-time pet
jockey, Charley Wood. She used such language
about his handling of a two-year-old that Wood
sent in his cap and jacket. When the Duchess
gives vent to her noble feelings the gods put wool
in their ears.
“Pendragon” is a man after Charles
Lamb’s own heart. In his latest letter (about
Auckland, N.Z.) he says : —“ We were soon busy
gazing in the shop windows —a pursuit which, to
my mind, knocks into a cocked hat all your in-
spections of the grandest and most picturesque
natural scenery.”
The Australian Record has it that Mr.
Water-jug Foster has been admitted to the higher
legal dignity of a Queen’s Counsel, together with
Mr. G. B. Simpson. Surely the Queen might
have granted a patent to each of those gentlemen.
It does seem very shabby to roll the two of them
into a single Q.C.
The new Marquis of Ailesbury, who
married a ballet-girl and sold the reversion of his
ancestral estates to a Hebrew money-lender, is the
patron of eleven livings in the Anglican Church,
As this kind of thing is increasing year by year,
the selection of the girls for burlesque choruses
should at once he entrusted to the Archbishop of
Canterbury.
Mr. J. J. Lough, the well-known Sydney
architect, was amongst the saved passengers on
the Keilawarra. This is the gentleman who
lately disappeared off a Newcastle steamer and
was missing for ten days. Then he re-appeared
just as his representatives were applying for pro-
bate of his will with a view to drawing his insur-
ance money.
It is common in Russia, says Vanity Fair,
to attribute everything that goes wrong to the
personal action of the Sovereign. Then the rumour
is spread Gzar is going out of his mind.
Then the 45«8ri3 murdered. This rumour has re-
cently been spread about Alexander 111. In.
anuary, 1801, a similar rumour was circulated in
the official paper of St. Petersburg in regard to
the Emperor Paul. In March he was murdered.
The slaughterous family of O’Farrell have
again dug up the boomerang, the solicitor of that
name having been committed at Melbourne for
threatening to blow the liver out of his brother-
in-law with a charge of shot. This same indivi-
dual was in trouble once before, when he tried to
shed the blood of Archbishop Goold, and his
brother the madman, who wanted higher even if
less holy game, was hanged for attempting to blast
the Duke of Edinburgh with gunpowder and lead.
“ Our Premier, Mr. Gillies,” says a Vic-
torian writer, “is an antipodean Disraeli.” En
passant, we may say that we never heard of
Disraeli giving a penny to a hotel “ boots,” yet
perhaps he did. But let the writer continue :
‘ • When he informed the astonished House of the
intention to hold a great Centennial show his
manner was as cold, passionless and unsympathe-
tic as if he were merely moving a vote of £l5O to
build a bridge over Quartpot Creek.” What a
picture of magnificence !
There is a Maori patriarch over 102 years of
age who says he spends half of every night in
prayer. He was a cannibal, and assimilated
several missionaries in his heathen days. They
have onlv begun to work him lately. So you see
that a missionary does good even when dead. Thi3
should be an to young ministers
who are moved to spread the Gospel among tha
benighted heathens of the Solomon Islands. Even
in the form of soup—toe-martyr soup—they will
yet be circulating the blessed tidings.
That merry soul, W. Pritchard Morgan,
of North Queensland celebrity, is said to be hand;
ling millions of mining money in London. W.P.M.
for a long while found much trouble in making
the Cockneys believe that there was any gold at
Charters Towers. The first mine he tried them
ftit.h was that excellent claim “ The Scotchman ”
■Abut as “ Scotchman” didn’t sound well in Eng
land the diplomatic Morgan changed its name,
dut of deference to Conservative prejudices, into
“ The Disraeli.” Then it went off with a rush.
The election of Alderman Riley as Mayor
of Sydney will be unpopular in some quarters.
The fact is that Mr. Riley is too confoundedly
sesthetic : he has never kept a grog-shop and he
has never stuck pigs for a living. He is generally
understood to look with favour neither upon the
Corporation ring which is “on the steal,” nor
upon that other ring which affects to believe that
a man can’t be tolerably honest unless he froths
at the mouth and invites such of his enemies as
happen to be about eight stone under his weight
to “ come outside.”
The new Mayor of Melbourne seems to be
something of a gusher. At the banquet a week
or two ago he said that “ if the Isle of Man were
called upon to elect a patron saint that saint would
be Lady Loch.” Humph ! The Isle of Man would
naturally make a woman its patron saint if it
wanted one. By the way, Mayor Cain is a Manx-
man. A suburban paper says this fact might be
made known to throw some light on the question as
to where the precious Cain died. Our own opinion
is that he never died, but flourishes in Australia
at the present day under another name —as a
Supreme Court Judge.
The Melbourne Age says in a leading
article : —“ A few years ago a colonial writer
sought to restore the doctrine that each member
of the human body is governed by a separate and
independent mind. Hence it was possible
the hand to write one thing while the brain die,
tated another. If the attempted revival failed it
was because people shrewdly suspected tb»t :
writer in question only wanted to escape respon-
sibility for sundry works of his hand of which he
was naturally and properly ashamed.” the
writer referred to Mr. James Smith, of the AR6 uB,
How these journalists love one another ! 1
Ballarat is beginning to pose as the cul.
tured City of Australia. A statue of Burns tba
poet is about to be erected there, and a movemen
is on foot to obtain subscriptions for the purpos
of raising one to Tom Moore. The Scotch an
Irish residents will then be satisfied, we supp° se ‘
But what about ihe natives—the Victorian -born
resident}. Have they no intellectual pride ?" n
poet to commemorate ? Several of them mus
have heard of the name of Adam Lindsay Gordo
who was a poet and an athlete too. Some nay
wandering Hungarian, or Polish, or. may
Japanese, minstrel, may come out here and IV *
for the price of a monument to him. Till


we fear he must—unless the Jews or the Chinese
siltecrib’e the pfice of a statue of him—go without
q’riS, sdfS his wdrits, vtliich are after all a poet’s
best iridnurilent.
The DWn and GuJtree Jernel has
another scandal on hand. As usual, they have
put “ Wales” into it. For some reason or another
Alfred and Wal.es don’t seem to “hit it.” “ The
story goes that:' a young and lovely peeress
arx’ived at a .country ball in ‘an unmis-
takable- jcpndi|4on.’” In fact the peeress
was drunk,: ;and; in her moments of whisky
joyiShe said ajlot qf f things.regarding Alfred’s foe
lliat rather went sgainst the young man when he
got home to his domestic hearth. But after all
tjfis is-pnly-Alfred's version, and we have yet to
hear what Albert Edward has to say in the matter.
! Miss Gillon, a witness at Captain Cain’s
inquest, stated in her evidence that she asked
Mrs. Hall in her husband's presence why Mrs.
Peters, a former domestic, left her. Mrs. Hall
replied that Mrs. Peters had got an idea in her
head that Hall wanted to poison her (Mrs. II.)
“ You know,” added the wife smiling at her hus-
band, “ Tom is always reading ‘ Taylor on Poisons,’
and I don’t half like it.” When Mrs. Peters left
his service Hall tried to get her confined as a
lunatic, and whoa ho was arrested the poor crea-
ture got so frightened at being called as a witness
that she actually went stark mad and had to be
sent to an asylum, where she still remains,
another victim of this great criminal’s villainy.
It is rumoured that there arc awful times
in stqre Jot Duncan Gillies’friend “Wales.” He
had a narrow escape from appearing in a very
othudgy Character among the co-responding crowd
whom Lady Coliil Campbell lids brought into
trouble, but his mother came to the rescue, and.it
was thought, saved him from destruction. She
got his letters from the Duke of Argyle—by what
means is not known. But revenge is sweet, and
the corrupt brood of Argyle seem likely to have
plenty of it. Somehow or other a Yankee pub-
lisher has procured copies of the precious docu-
ments, in which the Heir Apparent has outpoured
his one-horse soul to another man’s wife, and they
will either be issued to the world or someone will
have to pay the damage.
There is bad news for Queen Victoria
with regard to the Holloway “ Pill and Ointment
Asylum ” (the Holloway College for Women)
Which her ‘Majesty opened, and then regretted
having had anything to do with, finding that she
had been made the central figure of a mammoth
advertisement. But the sad truth must be told —
which is, that, unless some arrangement is come
to out of court, Pillionaire IldlloWay's will is to
be presently disputed, and the world furnished
with some interesting—aye, and startling—par-
ticulars of the career of this would-be benefactor of
middle-class girls who have a weakness for study.
Thomas Holloway had his romance—and the tell-
ifig might cause the eyebrows of some of our
leaders td vary tileir ndrmal elevation.
lb is a matter fot congratulation that
Chief Justice Why, of Soiitli Australia; was not
engaged to sit on the N. S. W. Bench, for' we learh
with regret that he also is “ wanting in dignity,”
and his “presence” is not what it ought to he.
Years ago he was a thin, plodding little party ; he
used to take down office-shutters in these days
and he didn’t look as if he was going to rise to
greatness. Now he is a stout, jaunty individual
who looks rakish except when he is hanging some-
body, and then he tones himself down till he only
looks gay, but though his intellect would fill a
barn he hasn’t been able to add an inch to his
stature. It was somewhere back in the fifties
when Chief Justice Way took down the shutters
for the last time, and at iust about the same period
the present N.S.W. Premier, Sir Patrick Jennings,
abandoned his one-horse grocery store and his one-
dog post-office at St. Arnaud, and likewise took
the path that leads to fame, after having scattered
his little all in a wild* cat silvermine.
It may not be generally known that last
Monday was the anniversary of the day when
Smith, of Naseby, N.Z., disappeared with the
cash. Smith claimed to be the father of the
sluicing system employed on our alluvial gold-
fields, and many years ago he took possession of a
claim and a small waterfall at Naseby. Then he
got a sheet of galvanised iron and sticking it in
the middle of the fall he sent the water on to the
Washdirt below, and thus introduced genuine
sluicing in these colonies for the first time. The
claim, however, gave out after yielding 100
ounces, but the local banker was so impressed by
Smith’s colossal intellect that he advanced him
£lOOO. With this sum Smith undertook to introduce
a whole deluge of Water, and to put a square
mile of galvanised iron below It to sluice all Cen-
tral Otago into the middle of the Pacific. Then
he gathered up the £lOOO, together with his own
little pile, and did an alluvial skip into the wilder-
ness. From that day to this he has never been
heard of.
David Buchanan is permitted by the editor
of the London Times to relate in the columns of
“ the Thunderer ” the story of his life. David
says he landed in Sydney with a few shillings in
the year 1852, and lumped coal on the wharf—
" Year after year,” he goes on, “I was engaged at the
hardest of work in Sydney and in every part of N.S.W. and
Victoria, such as stone-breaking, quarrying, splitting and
fencing, draj -driving, shingling, sawing, shepherding, hut-
keeping, sheep-washing, overlanding with sheep and cattle,
butchering, splitting logs for furnaces, hut-building, getting
the timber to do so, working in boiling-down establishments
and in soap and candle works, reaping, mowing and all farm
work, and an occasional voyage to sea, working my passage
whoreverl went.”
He never found any difficulty, he says, in getting
employment, hut after a while he grew tired of
making a comparatively honest living, so he went
into Parliament, and then turned lawyer and
made a pile. He winds up by saying that every
mau in N.S.W. can go and do likewise ; that be-
cause he got work 30 years ago anybody can do
the same to-day : and that Chinamen are never
oat of work. But it-happens that in the days
whan David was lumping coal there was no
Chinese competition worth speaking of, and when
Providence, owing to an awful mistake iti identity,
took him from the coals and set him to defending
horse-thieves and extracting fines and costs from
the pockets of men who could get no coals to
carry, it did not intend that he should get inflated
and bumptious and stuck-up, and begin to rail at
other men who had not turned lawyers. David
should remember that ail fish can’t bs sharks.
John Maclean of Hawera (N.Z.), lias
ocaans of cheek. He had a grudge against a
neighbour, so he went and borrowed the latter’s
gun, and then he laid for his enemy for six months
till he got a chance to pot him with the borrowed
implement! John missed after all, however, and
the victim now sees the Anger of Providence in
the circumstance that he lost all his cash in wild
cats years ago, fop then the bailiffs levied on his
breechloader, and almost everything else, and as
he was too poor to buy another good weapon the
one he lent to Maclean was an old blunderbuss
1 hat would have missed even in the hands of the
cherubim.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ives is to be N.S.W. Colonial Treasurer
when Parkes is Premier, not before.
The Yass people ought to get Colonna-
Close to explain how it is that on one memorable
occasion his style so closely resembled that of
Macaulay.
W. R. GIBLIN, PUISNE JUDGE, TASMANIA. —(See page'6.)
The Austrian Premier’s organ declares that
England is “ outside the sphere of Continental
alliances.”
The Maoril'-uidcrs want to take away the
sovereignty of Norfolk Island from N.S.W., and
place it under the New Zealand Government,
“ England, under proper laws, has abun-
dant room for all,” writes Sir Graham Berry.
Such laws would leave no room for K.C.M.G’s.
Vanity Fair says that a supreme convul-
sion is imminent in Russia, and that the army and
navy are honeycombed by revolutionary agents.
On dit that the N.S.W. Ministry have re-
solved to take the hull by the horns and impose
an all round 10 per cent. Customs duty “ for
revenue purposes.”
The day is not far off when the N.S.W.
Parliament will have been increased (by the
operation of the expanding clauses of Parkes’
Electoral Act) to 200 members. Parkes is a great
statesman.
Mr. William S. O’Callaghan writes to the
Herald to suggest that the maxim of Victorian
boys should be “ Victoria expects her boys will do
their duty where honor calls. “ Honor ” seems to
be somewhat hoarse in these days, Mr. O’Calla-
ghan. “ Plunder ”is the party with the voice.
Sir Julius Vogel got a glorious reception
at Lawrence (N.Z ), the other day, but he didn t
seem to like it much. He made a speech and his
auditors cheered again and again, but the enthu-
siasm appeared always to get up at the wrong
time, and when he said he had only a very few
years to live, the applause was deafening.
“ You would make a grand sample of our
unemployed for exhibition purposes,” said a Mel-
bourne stipendiary to a mean, unkempt, moon-
struck dead-beat, who stood forninst him the
other day, charged with beiDg a beggar, loafer,
and vagabond—showing what a masterly tact for
insulting the people your fat, haughty, heavy-
salaried public servant has.
The officers of the N.S.W. Customs De-
partment seem to be much interested in the
struggle now proceeding between Messrs. Harper
and Baxter for the appointment of second landing
waiter at Sydney. It is said that the Cabinet are
divided on the question, and that Dr. Itenwick
declares lie will resign should Mr. Harper not be
appointed. Dr. Renwick’s threats to resign are
becoming monotonous.
The Sydney D.T. wanted to know why
Mr. Hyam, M.L.A., did not attend the Balmain
meeting. The D. T. is never satisfied. The great
Hi Ham was at the meeting, and he didn’t get
much of a reception. It is significant that in all
his recent speeches Parkes has carefully avoided
reference to the Free-trade versus Protection
question. He and his party evidently mean to
“ rat,” if they get the chance.
The Victorian Parliament has voted £1125
to the family of late railway commissioner Agg.
Messrs. Woods, Gaunson,’ Big-foot Smith, and
Carter—windy-professed Radicals all of them—
pleaded for more. Commissioner Agg worked
hard, but ho was really well-paid by the State for
?>o years of his life-time. The very mention of
State help to the widows and families of minor,
poor-paid Civil servants sounds absurd in the
Ministerial ear.
A petition will be presented.to the N.S.W.
Parliament by Mr. Stokes, M.l/.A., from certain
women (?) of his constituency, praying that the
punishment ot criminals convicted of rape may be
altered from death to emasculation and branding
on the face. When all the women of N. S. W. shall
have become liko in nature unto the alleged
women who are capable of publicly making this
horrible proposal, then will the time have arrived
for so dealing with every male child that the
human race shall become extinct, and the oarth
be relieved of a monstrous burden.
“ How is it,” asks a London newspaper
correspondent, “that the two most important
IMtish commands, naval and military, are at this
moment in the hands of Germans? Wo have the
ommand at the Noro, the gateway of the Thames,
leading to London, committed to one of the Lein-
ingens, whose principal sea service exploit was,
when in command of one of the Royal yachts,
running down the Mistletoe. The army in Ireland
is commanded by Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar,
who was the despair of the umpires at sham-fights
whenever he had charge of troop 3.”
Colonel Disney remarked proudly at the
Melbourne Mayoral banquet a short time ago
that “ in the event of war breaking out in Europe
he felt sure that they would look with confidence
to the men of the colony to shoulder a rifle and
fight for the country.” Of course. So would we.
But we would also look forward with the same
cheerful expectation to a small minority of the
men to shoulder their rifles —and pawn them.
Some of them would probably be even mean
enough to sell the enemy the tickets. But taking
it for all in all there is a lot of patriotism in Vic-
toria —at banquets.
Some paper or person stated a little time
ago that if England were to engage in a great war
she might have some difficulty in raising the
money necessary to carry it on. A warlike writer
in the Melbourne Herald points out that more
money was subscribed to buy Guinness’s Brewery
than would be necessary for three wars, and from
this fact draws the patriotic conclusion that there
will be no trouble in getting money whenever
England chooses to fight. Gallant, but misjudged
enthusiast ! He forgets the radical difference be-
tween the two things—Blood and Beer, ou put
your money in blood, and probably lose it ; you
put it in beer, and it comes back to you increased
seven-fold. Patriotism is a very good investment
in time of peace, but when war threatens there is
nothing as sa'e as beer.
A few r weeks ago there was but one royal
family in Europe—that of Russia —which seemed
free from the i aint of hereditary insanity. This
exception has now been wiped out, for the Czar
is mad. He has become so through suspense and
crazy unreasoning terror, but yet this man
coarse, insane and commonplace—is, as before, the
absolute ruler of a hundred million souls. All
night he walks about, muttering, thinking, dream-
ing, and looking round for imaginary enemies ;
not long since he shot dead an officer who ap-
peared with his tunic unbuttoned, because he
fancied he had unfastened it that he might draw
some weapon hidden underneath, but the life of
an officer does not count for much when the
Lord’s annointed ” is frenzied with ceaseless
fear. It is one of the joys of hereditary mon-
archy—and hereditary lunacy—to be ruled—and
shot on sight—by a man like this, who can t be
got rid of except by assassination.
The Victorian Presbyterians have sent a
mournful petition to her Gracious, &c., beseeching
her in mournful numbers to so influence her
Government, that it will, without more ado, toss
the unregenerate Frenchman from the New
Hebridean cocoa-nut garden. Six of their valu-
able missionaries, they say, have been destroyed
by the hungry natives, and a number more valu-
able lives lost by other climatic influences. God
has given them 9000 converts, and 50,000 so far
civilised as to wear some clothing—counting in a
shock-headed chief who wears a linen tie, and
several tribes who have eo'oured socks and braces
for Sunday suits. The whole boiling are just ask-
ing to become British subjects, and are ardently,
even passionately, attached to Her Majesty’s
throne, &c. But it is chiefly by the fact that
£lBO,OOO of- good Scotch cash is scattered round
the islands, accumulating increment for the glory
of the Presbytery, that the sky pilots hope to in
duce the British lion to get up and rear till the
French eagle moults with terror.
“ Bismarck s policy,” says a London
writer, “ has no bowols ”
” At the first convenient opportunity he will shove his
Austrian ally or dupe out of Germany. His heart lusts ait
his fingers itch for her German lands and for the 8,000,000
German subjects over which she still rules. The German
Chancellor has already declared that Austria's centre ol
gravity is the East. But Russia will make short work Oj
Austria-Hungary in the interests of Pan slavism when she is
abandoned by Prince Bismarck fora prints This price wi
be the annexation of the German lands held by Austria, and
the completion of German unity by making the Empire co-
extensive with the German race, not excluding the Dutch
ports and a seaboard. To extend, complete, and round off
the German Empire is the dream of Prinoe Bismark’s ima-
gination. But he is not the man to dream dreams only ; he
converts them into living realities. To achieve this end, he
will allow Russia to havo her fling in the South-East of
Euroi e ; and, since ’England to-day counts for nothing, to
carry out the design and the dream of Peter the Great 1 y
establishing Russia's seat of power at Constantinople
Allied with Russia, Prince Bismarck may then defy Prance
with impunity ; or, acting on the principle do ut ilex, he may
buy off Prance's hostility by giving her Belgium. Who is
to-day the master of Europe ? Not England, for she is
asleep ; and, though she w&ti not of it, asleep on a volcano.”
So long as the laws of England are made
ancl administered by the rich for the rich it is
vain to dream of any amelioration in the conditii n
of the masses. It seems that a working man,
driven by destitution to the “ Union ” door,
breaks some statute or another in daring to put
his own price upon his labour. This we gather
from tho fact that Henry Shedd, a native of the
“glorious o'd country,” was sentenced to one
month's hard labour and 12 strokes of the cat for
refusing work offered him at three shillings a day
and electing to enter the workhouse. The magis
trate in this case was a lawyer and it is pretty
certain that his sentence was well within the
limits of tho law. It is also certain that Henry
Shedd was standing out for a principle in acting
as he did, and that the 12 lashes were intended to
convince him that starving labourers must have
no principles. It would be interesting to know
the very low-est wage which can be offered, with
the cat as an alternative. Perhaps one shilling
per week. But even taking the case of Henry
Shedd as it stands, we have the spectacle of tho
British capitalist standing at a workhouse doi r
with a cat-o -nine-tails in one hand and 3 shillings
in the other, offering hungry applicants their
choice between the two.
The Germans are the "coming race. Jn
London there are now 150,000 of them, and alnn sfc
all are well off even among the prevailing poverty .
Half the members of the Stock Exchange and one
fifth of the great city merchants arc German?,
and these are almost without exception the richest
of the London plutocrats. Two thirds of the great
fortunes made in tho capital of late years are in
the hands of the Teutons, and the other third aie
scrambled for by Jews, Americans, and Greeks.
Three Germans boss the iron, copper, and t'n
markets respectively, and if one of these says that
the price of his particular metal is to go down all
England cannot hold it up. They are gradual,y
monopolising flic banking trade, too, and to al
appearance the only men who can really oompete
with them are the Greeks. As for the EnfclisbQ
men, their conservatism, their extraordinary
ignorance, slowness, stupidity, and conceit are
putting them out of the race. They got up their
mercantile reputation only when they were free
from foreign competition ; now they are being
beaten on their own ground. Even the English
journals reflect the wooden-headedness of the
nation. From the Times down to the humblest
provincial rag they bear the one character—
chloroform and lead, edited by a corpse, and you
couldn’t tire a Gatling gun into a graveyard with
out riddling a dozen gayer corpses than the
average English editor.
The balance-sheets of Guinness’s brewery
show that during the last four years the concern
has netted £450,000 per annum. The figures are
big, but don’t impress one as much as they oughtin
view of the fact that one Sydney brev r ery firm
pocket over £lOO,OOO annually of net profits.
A ship’s name-board, evidently belonging
to the Thermopylae has been washed ashore at
Point Plummer, N.B.W. It is hoped that the
board merely went adrift in a gale, and that no
mishap has befallen the vessel named, which is
perhaps the fastest ship that ever sailed the seas
Twelve months ago the stocks of Indian
gold mines were quoted at an average of from
2s. (id. each to ss. less than nothing : to-day the
same stocks are w'orth from 15s. to £lO. In Lon-
don there is but one idea and that is gold. Even
in Scotland, where small quantities of the precious
metal have been procured from time to time ever
since the days of James V., it is believed that
payable yields—payable anyhow to the brokers —
will yet be obtained, and there are vague whispers
abouta great—brokers’ —gold-boom which isabout
to break out in Wales
The old lambing down style is played out’
This is how they do it in Jabbaloo. A policeman
goes round the big sheds just before cutting-out
and volunteers to take any cheques or money to
Jabbaloo and leave same in the bank or at, a store for
the shearers. Many jump at the offer, knowing the
temptations in the way. The shearers repair to
Jabbaloo, but the policeman is away on duty, and
the publicans tick the wool-choppers for a week
or so. In the dead of night the cheques are
handed to the respective publicans. Next morn!
ing the boys are primed with whisky before
boniface produces the little bit of paper, and—“ as
it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall
be! Amen and amen.” Round ’em up again,
“ Bally,” for another year.
We rise to report that a Scotch doctor has
made a joke. He is employed on a contractor's
camp somewhere in N. S. W., and is paid by a
small deduction from the men’s wages. Most of
them like the arrangement well enough, but the
other day the nasty man of the camp got drunk
and bailed up the medico, telling him he'd be
if he paid any more money for a that he
never wanted. Thereupon the doctor jumped
from his buggy and exclaimed in the peetic lan-
guage of L. L. Smith, “ You don’t look well, young
man. Let me see your tongue.” The lout looked
stupefied and solemnly rent asunder a huge pair
of jaws; a moment later he tried to close them
but the jalap-broker had got in a pair of pincers,
and -when he brought them out again a large tooth
came along with them. “That’s ten shillings’
worth, so you’ve got the value of your money,”
said his enemy quietly as he got into his vehicle
and drove away, and the navvy, squatting on a
heap of broken stones by the roadside) was so
amazed that it was half an hour before he remem-
bered to close his mouth again.


A Horrible Alternative.
THE WINDEYER OF THE FUTURE (after alO hour summing up): “ YOU HAVE ALL BEEN FOUND GUILTY OF A MOST HEINOUS AND REVOLTING CRIME,
AND I NOW SENTENCE YOU TO BE FLOGGED AND HANGED BY THE NECK UNTIL YOU ARE DEAD —OR I GIVE YOU THE OPTION OF MAKING A VOYAGE TO
MELBOURNE OR TO BRISBANE ON A VESSEL BELONGING TO ONE OF OUR VARIOUS LINES OF COASTING STEAMERS—IN EITHER CASE MAY THE LORD HAVE
MERCY ON YOUR SOULS.’


Dr. Lynn Abbott : “ Now, you all sec this lady sitting there,
you? You are quite certain she is there? Well, I will
put this veil over her for a moment and. then she will vanish
utterly. There is no deception in this. You just watch ms, and
how it is all done.
The Vanishing Lady of New South Wales Politics.


Society
On Saturday, l.Oth inst., the hig day of the
English t). N.S.W. cricket match, the day whs
glorious. The arrangement by which persons who
are membersand their girls,and those who are not,
are divided, is bad in the extreme. It spoils the
appearance of the ground, and keeps up the dis-
tinction of sheep and goats that is secured by the
payment annually of two guineas Still, the three-
and-sixpenny people on the lawn have their honey
and joy. For the Imperial box is placed amdng
them, and there is much in that. In fact; there
is so much that the moment the Governor arrives
all the very exclusive two guinea pebple throw tip
their claims, and riish to a woman to the domain
of Vice-royalty. The fcr-y of “They’ve come!”
Would Clear a Sydney church-yard of all the
grovelling society corpses, if they wore leaded and
screwed down for the Day of Judgment. At about
i p.m. H.E. and the Marquis of Stafford, Mr.—no,
Gaptoin—Sheriffe, and Cornet Williams arrived on
the scene. We at once say we don’t like U.K.’s
new hat; it does not in any way suit his Style of
beauty. The Marquis-, who-, by the way, will one
day be Duke of Sutherland and owner in fee
simple of a couple of Scotch counties, looked very
‘"fetching ” in a pair of fireman’s boots and
spurs to match, and light-tweed suit and
hat. But he did not look happy—no Mar-
quis on earth could live up to those boots.
In time Lady Carington and the Marchioness of
Stafford rode up. Lady Carington wore that
little riding-dress that has won for Leu among the
irreverent, the name of “ Flap Jacket.” Her
Ladyship, it is alleged, rather likes the chaff, and
tells her friends so-. Lady Stafford is a young
woman with fair and rosy eoinplexion, bright
eyes, cherry lips, and a self-possessed air. Her
hat troubled her a good deal. Being ih riding
costume the ladies Werb uhabl'e tb show thein-
SelvesOn thelaWii, ail'd as tile royal—we mean the
Vice-rbgai -bbk has a front that reaches nearly to
&hy Woman’s bhin, they were not seen so much as
itiahy bould have wished. We felt sure that the
howest thing in vice regal boots and pants would
not long remain in exclusive possession of royal
legs. We were right. A youth (who had come
by tram, no doubt) disported himself in a similar
rig to the joy of his friends, and the’triumph of his
enemies. But all saw through the sham. He was
not once mistaken for an Aide, or even for the
Governor’s grOofft. Therb is an air about the
truly hoblb that mbre Loots add pants cannot
Confer. This should the youth know, and build
fbr himself ancestral halls before he attempts
to don the habiliments of the Peerage. Mrs.
Pilcher wore an evidently Engl i slid res a which was
decidedly stylish, the hack part being wide stripes
of dark-blue and daik-greeD, the body and front
were made of the green shade,bonnet to correspond;
Mrs. Cecil Griffiths, a remarkable combination of
purple and white muslin ; Mrs. C. Hogg, a grace-
ful gown of cream crepe cloth, with pale-blue
velvet waistcoat and cuffs, cream and blue bon-
net ; Miss Mitchell, dark-green satin di-ess and
bonnet, A strikiug dress was striped yellow and
brown and plain brown bodice, with sailor hat. A
pretty little frock was plain-bine zephyr cloth
with braces of black velvet. Mrs. Roberts had a
lovely gown of dove-coloured silk, with trimmings
of the same coloured passementerie, small high
bonnet with roee-colourod feather,
*■ * *
The malignant and no doubt intentional
satire involved in the proposal made by a mali-
cious female—{—correspondent of the S. M.
Herald that a sixpenny subscription should be
started for the benefit of the wife and family
of the present N.S.W. Chief Justice, has
given dire offence. The gifted “Matron”—
how dull the HeßaLd people must have been to
passtheoldcat’svenomonto its destination! —states
that if every man, woman and child, planked down
What the “boys” term a “sprat” the man of
many sacrifices would be the better by some £25,000.
No doubt, so would we. But we think this was
an insult that Mr. Chief Justice Dailey lias not
yet earned. When we consider that like the
Roman Quintus Cu-rtius he has leapt into the
gulf, and with a nobility all his own has accepted
a poor £5500 per ahniim, a pension, of £2OOO, a
knighthood, and the Lieutenant- Governorship in
the distance, it will be understood what a truly
patriotic man we have in Australia. It goes' to
show that the artificial state of society wherein we
live has failed to obliterate from the liun an heart the
best and noblest instincts of our nature. Given
the occasion, and the man of sacrifices comes
forth. Given £3500 a year, and the highest dig-
nity in the land, and such is the splendid public
spirit of the day that a citizen can be found who
will accept the painful position. Nothing since
when Dan O’Connor stepped in and saved his
bleeding country by becoming Postmaster General
has been so finely done. We thought that when
Sir John Robertson accepted that £lO,OOO he had
come as ngaE the noble Roman as a man without
wings can get. But we were wrong. It still re-
mained possible to go one better, and accept the
Chief-Justiceship of N.S.W. When the present
shall have grown dim in the mists of ages,
when Dailey shall be a misty memory and there
are conflicting opinions regarding the Soudan
donkey, when Manly’s little boy shall be among
the cherubim, the travelled Hotentot sitting on the
ruins of the Sydney Post-office carvings will muse
upon the glorious pastof that people who were able
to rear a man capable of the noblest triumphs of
self-sacrifice.
* * *
Tlie moral of that little Darlinghurst
omnibus affair is that no lawyer, however
eminent, should be enthusiastically ati entire to a
girl he doesn’t know unless he’s quite sure her
husband isn’t sitting outside on the ’bus-box.
* * *
Speaking of Lady Carington’s last Thurs-
day “ At Home,” “Humming Bee” writes : “ Of
course everyone noticed the Marchioness of Staf-
ford, now a guest at Government House. Her
ladyship was downed in white, with a brown
sailor hat trimmed with red ribbon.” Fancy that!
The Marchioness wasn’t dressed, dontchcrknow.
She was—ahem !—“ gowned.”
* * *
That illustrious bread-waggon officer, Sir
E. Strickland, K.C.8., who seems to have been
the real author of the Soudan Filibustering Expe-
ditioh, has got it into his head that Queen Vic-
toria wants a shield. The General does not say
whether the old lady is going to take an active
part in the next Zulu war or not, but we fancy
she “has it in contemplation,” and has given the
General the straight tip. The shield is to cost
£lOO0 —a good sum, but not too much when we
come to consider its many uses, and no one is to
contribute more than one guinea. The idea of the
shield is good whichever way you take it. It’ll
do for a cradle for little Bat. It’s not bad as a
foot-bath, and as a. pie-dish it will come in handy.
No doubt a soft-bottomed chair and a foot-warmer
would have been more serviceable to the Royal
consumer of the succulent peppermint, but a
shield is good. Probably £lOOO was never put to
a better Use ; it might have been wasted m re-
lieving the sufferers by the late shipwreck. Money
is so dreadfully fooled away by some folks.
* * *
Another sample of cdrnstfllk politeness
came to the surf abb the other day, when an old
gfentleman who wits peacefully surveying “ the
beautiful harbour ” froth the deck of a newly-ar-
rived steamer was sternly pounded on the back by
a youth who thought he was his father. It took
the stiflterer SOhie time tb eohvmbb the punching
colbnist of his mistake.; whbn.he was cbuvinceU,
howevei’, he dpolbgised, but lie fevidbntly thought
that a hbaky smite on the spinb. was the correct
grebting for a lbng-lcstpareht. Ot’ course it niust 10
admitted that mistakes as to a ncestry .are not un-
common ; Alexander tlic Great, for instance, used
to append hia signature as “ Alexander, son e.l
Jupitor-Ammon,” whereas he was immediately
descended from a lame and drunken individual
named Philip, but then he did not hit the god on
WHY, CERTAINLY !
FOND MOTHER: “LOUD CARINGTON IS SUCH A CHARMING MAX YOU SHOULD
HAVE SEEN HIM COME UP AND PAT MY BABY’S HEAD AT THE FLOWER
SHOW.”
HER OLD MAID FRIEND: “YES, I DARK SAY. LORD CARINGTON ALWAYS
MAKES IT A POINT OF NOTICING COMMON PEOPLE’S CHILDREN.”
the back with an umbrella and yell “ Hello, dad !’’
It takes an Australian to do that sort ot thing
properly.
*' * *
New Zealand still goes in for nominated
immigration, and settlers who send home for their
friends very often find that they have imported
trouble as well as relatives for themselves. A
Napier man lately nominated his brother, and on
his arrival left him in charge of his house and
young wife while he went up country on business.
Returning one night late and unexpected, he
found that his wife and brother had taken his de-
mise for granted, and had consulted-with Moses as
to their subsequent duty to each other, and acted
accordingly. On making this discovery the en-
raged husband seized a poker and argued success-
fully therewith that the Mosaic dispensation did
not in this case apply. When he had convinced
them into a state of coma by the force of his argu-
ments he furthermore “grabbed them by the wool,”
and dragged them out of doors to cool their heads
while he went up to the garret to load his rifle.
Fortunately, however, some Maoris who heard the
hubbub rescued the delinquents before lie had time
to send them to Jericho in search of Moses.
* * *
At a bazaar. Vendor (carrying a hideous
blue crockery vase to be rallied) to blonde and
aesthetic visitor: “Oh, you really must take a
ticket for the raffle —only threepence.” Visitor:
“Oh, no! I should he too dreadfully afraid of
.winning it! ” Fact!
* * *
In Sydney, recently, a man got rid
of £lO,OOO in three months’ time, and ended up by
dying of a broken heart* Uow jolly j
Here is a tragic item for you. In a cer-
tain N.S.W. townsliip there lived a lady—young,
i ich, possessed of a dark beauty, and (it follows)
“ sought after.” She danced and sang from rosy
morn till dewy eve, and was first favourite every-
where. But trouble hovered. One calm morn
she rose to find hersvlf the unhappy possessor of—
a be.u-d ! Yes, a black beard quite two inches
long depended from her fair chin, and, at latest
advices, was still waving in the breeze as the ill-
fated girl refuses (so far) to suffer the pain at-
tendant on,its removal. The only exegesis offering
is that she,, by mistake, has used liair-restorer as a
cosmetic.
* * *
In Sydney, the other clay, a great-great
grandmother fell down stairs and broke her col-
lar-bone. This might only he a matter of congra-
tulation if the octogenarian had not inadvertently
fallen on her favourite grandchild and pulped the
latter past recognition. Lord keep our staircases
greasy I
# * *
A married lady eloped with a young man
at Teddington, Q. The forsaken husband swore
nbt but, Wept, and his faithless one relumed, to
he recbivedWith open arms. They Were Poly-
nesians.
* * ft
There is in Melbourne a Society fur the
! AssiSta-nbb of the Educated Poof. Befbrb obtain-
I ing relief the applicant is expected to be able to
i sign iris name—or anybody else’s name—with ease
and accuracy'. He must show that he knows
something of history, too,-and does not confound
William the Conqueror with Captain Cbok, It is
j a very exclusive society.
The title by which Prince Albert Victor is
to be I; .own.by upon his being created a Duke
later on “will partake of the nature of a compli-
ment to 6no of .the colonies.” From which we can
only infer that'this sawney youth is to created.
Duke cither of Toorak or of Darling Point.
* * *
Lord Carington evidently intends keeping
up the “ brilliancy ” of his statf, fop we hear that
Captain Cowan, who lef(. England in the K.M.S,
Clyde on November sth, will shortly ioin 11.E.’8
statf of ornamental young men.
* * *
If women were admitted to the franchise
there would be a good more hustle about
our elections.
* * *
Lord Tarhat, now on a visit to Lord
Ca' ington, is known to his intimates by the play-
ful title of Lord Tarpot. What hearty homely
vyays these aristocrats have among each other !
If one of our patricians played on the name of
another in this way there would be an action for
about a million damages. W o are so sensitive,
you know.
* * *
“ A wyonian should he like Crcsar’s wife
above suspicion,” sententiously remarked a Potts
Point resident the other day. “ I don’t know the
present Mrs. Ctesar,” observed Mrs. Malaprop,
who was present, “butl can only say the first
Mrs. Cresar was in every sense of the word a
ladv ” We fancy we have heard this before.
* * *
The Duke of Edinburgh has, we read,
made his mamma very angry by selling au bis
everything at EastweJl Park, including tile pr§-
sents made to himself and wife by his
Queer stories are current as to the presents hp
gave, in accordance with the Eastern custom, on
leaving Constantinople. To the Sultan ''he
offered, as a pleasing novelty, a cheap edition of
the Queen’s “Life in the Highlands”; to the
Grand Vizier he presented a shilling wooden pipe
with an unscrewable bowl. Among the various
high officials he divided an aluminium pencil-case,
aWaterbury watch, ahalf guieea sewing-machine,
a cake of Pears’ soap, a button-hook, a pocket-
comb, a bottle of china cement, an odd volume.of
the “Sunday at Home,” a box of sardines, a pot
of jam, and a bundle of cfuill toothpicks? And, to
show that he wasn’t proud, when he got on board
ship he totted up his expenses on his shirt-cuff,
and found that he had got out of Constantinople
for £1 17s. 6d. Whereupon, in a fit of suddjen
generosity, he went back on shore again and spent
the odd half-crown. ‘
* * *
The two Scottish gentlemen who wrote
“ Populaire” have left their mark upon the sands
of time in a way thoy little expected, for thqse
Who Witnessed the production of this “comic” opera
at Government House, Sydney, last week, have not
eVen yet Recovered from the shock. The authors
have crowded the piece with adlusions to “ sweat’’
and “perspiratioir” and “ beef ” Until it reads like a
parody on a butcher’s shop, and when one of the
characters tells another that he is short of
“lights” the impression gains groiind that
“ Populaire ” is somewhat lacking in that higli
tone .which alone could gain for it the fatoiti*
of Potts Point, For inntaiice, the foilotvin#
dialogue is calculated to demoralise a whole tLartn
ing-scliool
Enter George, muffled up, preparatory to taking a sweating
walk.
George : Daughters of ray native land, I salute you.
All : And, champion of our shores, we return it.
Muriel : Are you cold ?
George: No, I am not cold, but my trainer says I am too
beefy.
Muriel : What is that ?
George : Too much flesh on me. It will all come off after
I a 20-mile spin.
All : What 1 in pieces?
George : No, ladies, in perspiration.
Ann :Oh !—oh !—oh !
George takes his spin, and on his return, while
ilis trainer io throwing water over him, the
dialogtie goes on :
MuriEl : lias he lo§t any htef ? , . .
Sl'AtlN; Well, ifliss, hfe was a trine beefy at tlifi staff)
hut i leaf thdt he has pullfed dp a trifle gfOggfr.
I’ll strip fiiih afld fhb hlifl dowfi
before he gets his feed. . ~„f ,
Muriel : You talk about him as if he were a horso.
From beef to grog appears only to remove tile
alleged satire from a slaughter-yard to a public-
house, and when the opera reached this point
there was sdeh a look of frojlon meat about tile
audience that Lady Cdrington bfegan to fear they
were not enjoying themselves. Hbr ladyship wa? as-
sured, however, that refill j r aristocrdtic Aiistrdliflnfj
always looked like that when steeped in p’rofoilho.
unfatnonmble bliss, and the pe'rforfnance went Hii
pretty smoothly until this remarkable utterahfcS
came to the front: —
Charlie : Perhaps pluck goes further than muscle.
Spavin: What’s the good of “pluck” without “lights.”
Why, you’re as narrow-chested as a curlew.
Spavin goes on to sing the story of a narrow-
chested young man without “ lights ” who lost a
race and then—slaughter once more !- cut his
throat. lie missed his mark, however, and got
three months for the attempt. After this there is
one solemn joke, but it is so long in coming that
it loses its point. George comes back laden with
trophies, and his trainer says poetically, “ Yes,
them's the jugs.” Evidently the two Scotch
gentlemen who wrote “ Populaire ” were too sad
for the work, and after enduring their parody on
Muscle it is a relief to hear that Beach is engaged
writing a lightsome satire on Brains, which is
also to be produced at Government House. Beach
is not a Scotchman, “for which relief much
thanks,” for W. S. Gilbert has absorbed in himself
all the humour of North Britain, and while he
lives all operas by men whose names begin with
Mac. should be strangled in the cradle.
* * *
Describing the Beach reception, a Globe
reporter says that the Hon. George /Thornton
looked “as handsome as Apollo.” Such an ancient
comparison is unnecessary while we can refer to
Burdett Smith.
* * *
According to Reynolds a “ gentleman ”
“ is a superficial prig with a docent coat, a loud
voice and an impudent stare.” ,
* * *
Quiet, modest, unostentatious liberality
such as the following shotild not he allowed to pass
unnoticed :
“ As an evidence of the thoughtfulness and liberality of
our citizens towards the inmates of our charitable institu-
tion?, more particularly during the Christmas seasoD, our
attention has been drawn to an advertisement, appearing in
the Herald, from the superintendent of the Kandwick
Asylum, notifying the-receipt of a very handsome donation
from Mrs. L. W. Levy, of Macleay-street. We are informed
that Mrs. Levy visited the institution yesterday and caused
the very acceptable gif is to be transferred from her carriage
to the superintendent.”
Need we say that it is the S. M. Herald which
holds up this touching example for imitation by a
j purse-proud bourgeoisie ? • . /
This is a true bill. Up the country some
ladies drove over one day to visit a neighbouring
squatter. He was very anxious for them to stay
aIL night, and even went so far as to say that -their
horse was dead lame and could not take them home.
They said they must go, and that he would have
to lend them a horse. Now, being a man of ex-
perience and not being particularly anxious to
lend any of his horses to ladies, he got their horse,
the supposed lame animal, whitened his face and
three legs, and started them off with instructions
not to spare the whip, as the horse was very lazy.
A woman will always overdrive a horse ; she will
extra overdrive him when he is borrowed, and
when she is told to beat him it is a'case of Lord help
him. So they sent this moke along in style, whip and
umbrellas going all the lime. When they arrived
home they told the master of the house that “ Mr.
Johnson lent us a horse, such a lazy brute, and
told us to beat him well.” Then the boss went
out, and after viewing the distressed moke for a
few minutes, he recognised his favourite buggy
horse, and saw through the affair. Then he joined
all women, Johnsons, and horses in one fearful
malediction, and sent the nag round and had him
washed clean. There is a coolness now between
those families.
* *
A squatter out West has a “ loan ” horse.
He lives near a fairly large town, and when any
of his numerous friends are stopping there, they
always.ask him for “ the lead of a horse” and he
always sends this one with a message that “ You
must he a bit careful getting on it.” The animal
has a trick of wheeling sharply round when any
one is getting on ; the result invariably is that the
would-be borrower returns him next morning
with a polite note saying that he has decided not
to go out at, present, and takes temporary quarters
in the hospital, Now this nag began to get old


and the squatter thought of selling him. He had
no sooner announced his intention of so doing
than the three medical men of the town sub-
scribed about double the horse’s value as an in-
ducement for the squatter to keep him, saying
that if he went they would lose their best friend.
As they remarked, “He is a very quiet horse —you
only have to be a bit careful getting on.”
* * *
Lord Carington’s brother, the Hon. Rupert
of that ilk, will arrive in Australia shortly. The
gentleman, jt is understood, spells bis surname
with only one “r,” of which fact Potts Point will
please take note.
** . *
The Sydney Club is to be resurrected
under the name and style of “ The Austral.” The
Austral, it will be remembered, went under water,
the club, the ship’s namesake, goes under,
won't go under water.
* * *
Some time ago, in Australia, a barmaid
who had graduated at a Melbourne hoot-factory,
married an English baronet. One day an acquaint-
ance of the baronet’s called at his residence and
enquired of her ladyship whether Sir Henry—
Henry will do—was in. “ S’elp me —he’s not in !”
replied her ladyship; “I’m afraid lie’s on Lhe
booze again.” Lady - —— U now in Ilingerland,
and when she begins to talk she will make tho old
nobility sit up and cough.
* * *
“ The Chaplain’s Craze” is the title of a
now story by George Manville Fenn. We have
not read it, hut guess that the “Chaplain”
referred to must have had an objection to accept-
ing presentation slippers and purses of sovereigns,
and a penchant for preaching sensible sermons and
dividing his income with the poor. Mad, of
courso.
* * *
“ Your mother-in-law used to live near
you—l hear she has moved.” “ Yes, she has
moved —next door to me.”
• * *
•* I am afraid,” said Lady C ~ the
other night, “ that these people are not enjoying
themselves thoroughly. I noticed that some of
them have been looking straight ahead for
the last half-hour without a smile.” “ Your lady-
ship,” interposed a cynical man, “when you get
to know Potts Point thoroughly you will become
aware that it never displays emotion.”
* # *
The course of true love wouldn't run very
smooth if all the girls were like Lottie Jackson,
Lottie —it came out in a London police court—is
an actress of jealouy temperament and sleuth-
hound determination. We don’t know what a
sleuth-hound is, but the simile reads well. To re-
turn to our Lottie, however, it seems that she
“ suspected the fidelity ” of her best young man.
Not being one of those girls who are content to
chew the cud of suspicion and equalise matters by
hugging another fellow, Lottie put on male attire
and tracked her giddy' Augustus. She saw him enter
a railway-carriage with two sweet things in golden
hair and dress-improvers. She also entered the
carriage. And now, mark the inconsistency of
the sex. Lottie hit one of the girl vin the ey'e,
pulled off the other one’s bonnet, and-left the
faithless Augustus unscathed. It is positively
alarming to find that this exacting maiden was
discharged with a caution. Speaking as an en-
gaged young man, we think they ought to have
made an example of Lottie.
* * *
} {lt is alleged that Madame Simonsen had
to advertise several times before she could get
board and lodging for the members of the Italian
Opera Company now in Melbourne. The hoard-
ing-housekeepers know too bitterly from old ex-
perience the appetites these tuneful foreigners
bring with them to Australia. Poor old Rosnati —
peace to his jaws!—used to eat two ducks and
drink two quarts of claret at a meal.
* * *
Social affairs in Hobart are improving.
With H.M.S. Nelson anchored in the Derwent
and a lady receiving guests at Government House
— after a masculine reign of five years—things
are decidedly “losking up.” All the feminine
war-paint is being prepared, and, with the naval
officers’ assistance, a lively season is anticipated.
Sir Lambert Dobson’s popu’arity as Acting-
Governor contrasts strongly with that of Sir
George Straohan ; as it is an open secret that the
latter's departure was not “ deeply regretted.”
* * *
A Loudon correspondent of the Argus
describes Marshall and Snellgrove as “ two (heap
linen-drapers who have a shop in Oxford street.”
The wives and daughters of our recently returned
“representative Australians” will rustle their
silks and satins in indignation as they read this.
Marshall and Snellgrove are the drapers, par
excellence, of the West End of London. Outside
their Regent-street entrance lines of carriages,
two deep, can he seen every afternoon during the
season. The squatter's wife who has laid out 50
guineas in a mantle at M. and S.’s won't, like to be
told that she patronised a “ cheap linen-draper's.”
She must console herself with the reflection that
nobody pays any attention to an Argus statement,
nowadays.
* * *
A FAREWELL.
[Strictly Original.]
Oh ! darling, one fond word before we part,
To bind us soul 10 soul and heart to heart
Whatever joy', whatever grief you’re in,'
Oh, love ! sweet love ! wear flannel next your skin.
* * *
The London correspondent of the Canter-
bury (N.Z ) Times says that those nonsensical
lucubrations by “A Peeress, the Daughter of a
Powerful Duke,” which appear in tha Sydney
Town AND Country Journal, and which have
excited so much derision in all quarters, are I.he
work of Lady Colin Campbell, who, by the way, is
neither a pearess nor the daughter of a duke. If
this statement is correct (and we see little reason
for doubting its accuracy in view of the facts that
Lady Colin has from time to time offered work to
more than one colonial paper, and that the letters
themselves contain internal evidence pointing to
the lady named as their writer), the lengthy and
suggestive telegrams which are now almost daily
appearing in the E. News re the progress of the
Campbell divorce case at once acquire an addi-
tional amount of interest. And so do the letters
given some time ago by “the Peeress” as speci-
mens of the private correspondence of the Prince
of Wale?, concerning whom, it has been broadly
alleged, Lady Colin knows a good deal more than
sh 3 would care to tell.
* *
Rouge,-powder, and pads are now quite
fashionable in Sydney sassicty. Who sets that
fashion ?
At the Congregational Church, Petersham,
on Wednesday, Mr. Herbert Roseby was married
to Miss Ada Say well, eldest daughter of Mr. T.
Saywell, Tarana, Petersham. The bride wore a
beautiful gown of cream ottoman silk profusely
ornamented with rich lace, and the usual wedding
veil and flowers. She was attended by six brides-
maids —three in pale blue and-three in pale pink
In each case the dresses were trimmed with cream
lace. Mr. J. Ellis was best man.
* * *
From a Perth (W. Australia) paper :
“BIRTHS.
“ Snowball.— On the 7th October, at Stirling-street
Perth, the wife of John H. Snowball, of a son.
“ Snowball.— On the 29th October, at Beaufort-strect,
Perth, the wife of Willi,im 11. Snowball, of a son.
“ Snowball.— On the 31st October, at Stirling-street,
Perth, the wife of George H. Snowball, of a son.”
Messrs. John, William, and George H. Snowball
were all married on the same day less than a year
ago, and now all are happy parents. This is most
satisfactory.
* * *
In the same issue of the paper appears a
birth-notice in German fashion :
“ Adolph. — Mr. John Adolph wishes to inform his
friends that his partner in life has this morning given birth
to a healthy little boy.”
However, Mr. John Adolph, in the happiness of
paternity, seems to have totally forgotten to
supply any date, and so (as the advertisement
appeared several times) people marvelled much.
* * *
G. F. Root’s cantata, “The Flower Queen,” is • to bo per-
formed at the New Masonic Hall, Sydner, on Friday, 17th
inst., by a choir from Cleveland-street Public School. Mr.
Percy Jones and Miss Kmonie Hamilton will assist.
On Monday evening, the (ith, the members of the Sydney
German Club gave a successful benefit concert to Herr li.
Kohler. The hall was crowded with a well-dressed and
fashionable audience. During the intervals ices and light
refreshments were served.
On Wednesday evening, Bth inst., Mrs. E. C. Batt gave a
delightful dance at her residence, Banksia, Edgeclift'-road,
and in spite of the rain, which poured down in torrents,
between 50 and 00 guests assembled, and dancing was kept
up until the small hours
BRIEF MENTION.
The Chinese question —Fine cabbagee ?
A real Colonial Exhibition -Hanging nine
men.
The A.S.N. Company. —The All Sold Now
Company.
A man who would sit in Parliament must
stand first and lie afterwards.
Aroma is a settlement in New Guinea.
The name is derived from fried missionary.
Up North in some of the bush schools
they’re utilising the aborigines as blackboards.
’ ’ “ The way of the transgressor is hard”
when he or she is poor', hub otherwise ’tis soft
enough. I
A Queensland editor is afraid his morals
will be corrupted should any of the Royal Family
visit us.
“Fetch on the next corse,” as the New
Hebridean savage said when he’d picked the bones
of Presbyterian missionary number one.
“A stale handbill, run by a lot of drunken
slabs, and supported by horse-thieves,” is the way
a Queensland editor describes the rival journal.
“ The lock-up is now without an inmate,”
writes a Maryborough (Q.) paper. This a splendid
tribute to the influence exercised by the local
belles on the “foorce.”
“Hell —what is it, and where?” is the'
theme of a Melbourne parson’s advertised sermon.
Some men are so confoundedly impatient—they
can’t be reasonable, and ’bide their time.
The height of the Melbourne Post-office
tower, when finished, will be 191 feet. It is
reckoned that its summit will then he elevated
some ten feet above the stench of Elizabeih-
street.
Scene : Sydney Insolvent Court. His
Honor the Chief Commissioner, with much pomp :
“ This—ah—mattah stood ovah simpliciter ?”
Enterprising attorney : “ No, your Honor, it stood
over for a week.”
“ Thou shalt have no other gods hut me.”
We recommend this commandment to. the Beach
reception committee, most of whom, being in the
public business, are probably not too well ac-
quainted with the Decalogue.
At a concert in aid of a religious cause,
held here t’other night, an anchor suspended from
a clock formed part of the decoration. This is
selon les regies. Mo3t churches are anchored to
tick. This Jen d'esprit is worth ten shillings.
“ Qui Viva Vesia ’’.says the Paris corres-
pondent of the Melbourne Age in answer to a
question he puts to himself. This comes of get-
ting Paris correspondence from Collingwood I hit.
Tt may be economical, but it is somewhat hard on
the French language.
Here is a specimen of depraved ambition.
A young man was arrested in Melbourne the
other day for representing himself to be a police-
man. The magistrate said that if the charge
were proved he would be severely punished. Why
not make him one in reality ?
“ The old identities of Mudgee are slowly
but surely gravitating towards the big smoke,”
says the local Independent. Perhaps the editor,
when he says “ big smoke,” means Sydney—per-
haps he doesn’t. Anyhow, he reminds us that
“All men must die, and after that the Judgment.”
Politeness costs nothing. Says a Macleay
(N.S.W.) paper of its local rival: —“ The miserable
placard issued from the equally miserable hovel in
Brown-street exists by a persistent course of
lying, which only imposes on the few ignorant
supporters who out of misguided charity keep the
abortion going.”
There is a row on at the Auckland (N.Z.)
Lunatic Asylum. The warders won't salute the
medical superintendent, as by regulation directed;
and on the other hand, that gentleman won’t
allow them to carry keys admitting them to the
apartments of the female patients, lest saluting
should be carried on there.
Specimen sentence from the Melbourne
Herald —subject, an engine running over a bul-
lOGk: —“ With a sudden snort and shriek the en-
gine. which was travelling at a high rate of speed,
was impacted on the unfortunate bovine.” Name
of the Pope! There i 3 style for you ! If we could only
write like that w.e would take to grave-digging
immediately.
A Ballarat East young man put a billiard
hall in his mouth for a wager, but couldn’t get it '
out, “and went about for some time like a cat
with its head in a salmon-tin.” There is only one
man we know who could safely perform this
billiard-ball feat, and he is a Sydneyite, a legal
glutton who never puts bones in his mouth while
he can get- meat.
Racing Certainties.
There is nothing certain but death and the
taxes. I take that back. Tlrere is nothing cer-
tain. The Bible shows that death is not a cer-
tainty, and the Legislature fails to regulate it for
the taxes. It is possible, however, to make a
moral and to work it. Johnny Armstrong is sure
when you know that you have him. All this by
the way • so to my theme. I shall tell you of a
few well-arranged certainties. Let me see. I
am 43 years old, so it must have been about ’63. I
had learned to drink “brandy-hot” and was
doing so in Birkenhead. Two turfites Vvetia pre-
sent. They had each a horse in a selling-race at
Chester next day, and there were only throe
horses in the race. Mr. B. gave Mr. T. £lOO on
condition that he would let his jock, wait on B.’s
horse until within the distance. Ho then gave
his own rider strict orders not to pass T.’s horse
on any account until within the rails. Tho third
horse, which belonged to a farmer and had no
show against the others if fairly ridden, cams in
an easy winner whilst his opponents were trot-
ting at the back of the course. Mr. B. netted
£5OO by backing the farmer through a commission-
agent.
* * *
In ’O5 I was serving my Queen and country
in the shiny East at Allahabad. Captain D— had
the best “ Waler ” horses in India, Two of them,
Prince Alfred and Bonnie Morn, wore in the big
race. Now, the betting in India in those days
was all done by the lotteries held in tho clubs and
mess-rooms. D. had failed to buy Bonn o Morn
in the sweeps, as sho was bid up by a staff-officer
from the Hissar stud. My friend, Baron Bob, of
Port Jackson, knows that officers are commis-
sioned as “ our trusty and well-beloved Cham-
pagne Charlie, gentlemen, greeting.” No suspi-
cion of roping was attached to any officer in those
days, and D. was tho best rider I have ever seen—--
Ido not except George Fordham or Tom Halos.
He rode so well that Bonnie Morn lost 50 lengths
behind a tope (clump) of palm- trees at the far
side of the course, and Prince Alfred, ridden by-
little Collins, an English professional in the em-
ploy of Captain D., won by half a length. I regret
exceedingly to state that the Indian turf lost the
patronage of the owner of the first and second
horses soon after, as he paid a visit to Coventry
on the recommendation of the Calcutta Turf Club.
Skipping tho doings of commoners, I shall
touch on Royalty first, to cut out the paid Peeress
of Potts Point. Fit/,-George is the name by which
the sons of the Duke of Cambridge pass muster.
One of them was A.D.C. at Gibraltar in ’67. A
better fellow never lived. Ilis hobby was walk-
ing. I think he feared the Hanoverian adiposity.
Every morning he used to struggle up the rock,
into the galleries, have a look with a field-glass at
the gallops on the neutral ground, up to the Rock
Gun, coffee with the keeper, and back to the
bathing-place at Rosia Bay. A few days before
the races a trial was got up for his benefit. A
barb called Rabat gave au Arab, Rothesay, a great
doing. They were actually started by a signal
(the dropping of a red silk handkerchief) from the
very embrasure in which Fitz-George was stand-
ing. A friend met him accidentally and accom-
panied him in his walk. Rothesay won the “ Barb
and Arab Maiden,” and our chip of Royalty dropped
£2OOO. A telegram to li.R.H. brought the money
and the loser gambled no more. If 1 wore to meet
him in Sydney now he would trust me in prefer-
ence to Captains B and S , of the crack
Light Infantry regiment that was with him in
Gibraltar, and I am only a turf-tout,
* *
Thus you see, my young friends, that it’s
better biz. to head-’em or to buy lollies, than to
hack a horse, unless he is a certainty and you are
in the swim.
HIRAM ABIFE.
THE LATEST PATTERN.
“ The new Bishop of Bathurst the Bev.
F. W. Goodwyn, does not enjoy the reputa-
tion of brilliant scholarship, but he is a type
of muscular Christianity such as would have
rejoicsd the heart of Charles Kingsley.”—
S. M. Herald.
An epidemic of su'c do is laguig among
the Chi'amen of Melbourne. Jame 3 Chin, a
cabinet-maker, was found found dangling at tl e
end ef a rope last week. He§Jiad then beep hang-
ing for two days, and the policeman who had the
job of cutting him down didn’t exactly relish it.
A Chinaman doesn’t require to be hung as long as
a saddle of mutton or a hare.
The Nationnal Permanent Building
Land and Investment Society
Tiie history of the operations of these institut ions
of the people classed under tho general head of
land and building companies is yet to be written.
But when that work is done it will be found to
show almost a revolution in tho condition of the
people of this country, as by their means we have
quietly being accomplished here what centuries of
political combat and oven the conflict of arms
have failed to secure for tho oid world—tho land,
tho common heritage of man, has here been par-
celled out so as to allow every man to become a
holder of the soil. Within a radius of 1 5 miles'*T
Sydney large estates held intact fr**m the first
day the flag was hoisted to the breeze at
Dawes Point ha\ e been broken up, and a thou-
eand families found roofs to cover their head
where previously little lords held their sway, and
bellowing herds proclaimed their sovereignty.
One company that has signally done its work
quietly, slowly, surely and solidly a stylo that
alone permanently fixes the solid, slow going peo-
ple of Sydney—is the National Permanent Build-
ing Land and Investment Society. In its un-
pretentious olllce in Park-street this company ha3
carried on a safe and going business, aiming and
securing in every instance an unchallengable solid
average—an average which gave just and legiti-
mate returns to the company, and at the
same time secured the public in the posses-
sion of land and buildings, to which were
not, by auctioneering or contract dodges, given
forced or speculative values. The National
all through its operations, has held to the one
principle of letting the public set their own values
on their estate—that is, the directors and manage!'
have steadfastly shut their faces against arranging
with contract-builders on the high percentage
principle, with whose aid the land is given a
fictitious, temporary value; consequently the
transactions of the Company have worked out
with signal success, less buildings or land pur-
chases being thrown back on their hands, than
was ever previously experienced. With this
solid, even success, the Company have been able
to erect splendid new offices in Pitt-street, a small
sketch of which is here given. The building is
like the company—solid and strong. The oflicera
will actually give free office accommodation to the
Company, and at the same time a return on the
capital. The dii ectors are Messrs. J. B. Gibbs, Mr.
J. Broomfield, Mr. F. A. Wright, Mr. Ellis Robin-
son, Mr. W. Uentsch, Mr. H. Chapman, Mr. J.
H. Carruthers, and Mr. W. H. Paling, and the
manager is Mr. James A. Todd, a capable and re-
liable man of business. The company have just
recently secured a portion of the celebrated
Cooper Estate, a city property, and have resolved
on disposing of it privately. They have already
the plans out, and have resolved on asking only
50s. per lot deposit, and the balance at 20s. per
each £100, including 6 per cent, interest, virtually
ten years’ texnis, with Torrens Title. This is vir-
tually Sydney city property, and is reached by
tram, but more particulars will be forthcoming in
a future article’
The Proposed East Perth Freehold
Land Company.
The fact of English and Australian capital con-
tinuing to flow into Western Australia —and
especially its capital, Perth—gives additional in-
terest to the proposed formation in Sydney of the
East Perth Freehold Land Company. The general
opinion among people visiting the capital of our
great Western colony, is that it presents at this
moment the same opportunities to land investors
and others which Sydney presented 50 years, and
Melbourne 30 years, ago. The West Australian
coast is nearest Europe, and at no distant day it
must be the first point of arrival of the great mail
and ocean steamers. This, together with the
great railway undertakings already in hand, must
give the place the impetus so long needed. Pri-
vate letters from Sydney people who have settled
in Perth say that the place is soundly prosperous
and must go ahead; and that Frtemantle and
Perth must become great centres if maritime
trade owing to the enormous stretch of coast-line
and the wealth of the newly-discovered coast
country and harbours, from which facts
the venture can be confidently recom-
mended. The projectors of the company
have decided on a solid, good programme
in forming a company to purchase the East Perth
Estate, consisting of 80S acres, and similarly
situated to the city itself as Newtown or the Glebe
is to Sydney, being only half-a-mile from the city
boundary'. This estate is already a railway
suburb, as the Government railway line runs right
through the city and right through to the property
and connects with the Great Hordern line now
being built by Engiish capital. The owners ask
at the rate of £25 per acre for this, while portions
sold have brought up to an average of £75 per
acre, the total of £lOOO being cariied to the credit
of the company. 'Jhe terms are £BOOO in cash,
£6OOO paid up shares, and £6OOO to remain at 6 per
cent, for five years. It will be unnecessary to call
up more than £13,000 unless the company decide
on erecting buildings on the plan which has given
some of the Sy'dney building companies a huge
and vastly improving interest in all the suburls
of Sydney'. The East 1 erth Estate has communi-
tion with the city by road, rail, and river, and is
consequently convenient to the city. The capital
of the company is £30,000 in £1 shares, payable*
on these very easy' and very attractive terms, viz.*
Is. on application, Is. on allotment, and 1?., if rej
quired, at intervals of not le,-s than two months.
The provincial directors are the following •well
known Sydney men, namely, Mr. John See,
M.L.A., Chairman ; Mr. W. Frazer Nortor, J,P.;
Mr. J. G. Griffin ; Mr. John Bennnet; Mr. R. I.
Murray ; Mr. E. G. Barker. The Broker to the
company is Mr. Marshall Bayley, of 19 Bridge:
street, Sydney. The support accorded the com'
pany already iud eates early operations,


The above is a faithful likeness of the man whc
says that rheumatism is an invention of the devil.
He is a gentleman and a scholar ; speaks severs
anguages, and has got the biggest foot in Aus
tralia.
He is very wealthy and good-looking; ha
plenty of friends, but his clothes don’t fit him,
He has completely used up every profane wor
the Colonial and other languages, still he is not
nappy.
He says there is enough thoroughbred agor
and hellish torture in his foot to kill every sinner
n creation.
He has been a Member of Parliament, a Ministc
of the Crown, and an Alderman, but does not re-
member having done anything to deserve
sufferings.
He has always been devout; and at one peric
of his life a government contractor.
He has tried all the doctors and nearly every-
thing under the sun, but the villain still pursues
him.
He telD everybody that trying to cure rheu-
matism is like trying to shovel wind off the roof.
Or trying to get a sinecure in the Civil Service
without friends in the House, or marrying into a
high-toned family.
He says that rheumatism cannot be cured. Hi 8
grandfather told him so. And he thinks that
settles it.
He is sadly mistaken. It is a fact that a remedy
has been found which relieves and cures rheu-
matism, just as sure as the sun shines in the
heavens. It is used externally. It conquers pain.
It goes right to the spot. It cures when every-
thing else has failed. It penetrates to the seat of
the disease. It is simple. It is safe. It is cer-
tain.
Mr. James Marlow, merchant tailor, ll.Flinders-
street Bast, Melbourne, was under medical treat-
ment for rheumatism for months at a time, and
Buflered severely both in health and packet. He
tried all sorts of remedies without obtaining rePef,
until he got St. Jacobs uil, when “ the first appli-
cation gave me instant relief, and I am thankful
to say that I have not experienced the slightest
symptom of pain ever since.”
Edward Evans, formerly with Davey and Moore,
London, was declared incurable at three hospitals.
He was nearly crazy from rheumatism. The
doctors said he must die. St. Jacobs Oil cured
him. He says: “It saved my life.” William
Beach, champion oarsman of the world, writes :
“ I gladly endorse St. Jacobs Oil. It conquers
pain.”
Maurice D. Benjamin, Esq., importer and whole-
sale merchant, late of Brisbane, Queensland,
writes :—“ I had my doubts at first of St. Jacobs
Oil eradicating rheumatism ; but as I have practi-
cally tested its efficacy, I can honestly state that
it has wonderful rheumatic healing qualities.”
Henry Ricketts, Westbury, Gloucestershire, was
pronounced incurable at Bath Hospital. His pains
were terrible. St. Jacobs Oil cured him. After
practical tests on invalids in hospitals and else-
where, St. Jacobs Oil was awarded six gold medals
in America, Australia, and India. It has cured
people who had been crippled from pain for over
20 years.
William Gitechink, a stoker, belonging to
H.I.M.S. Albatross, was compelled to remain in
Auckland when the Albatross sailed for Samoa,
on acoount of his dreadful sufferings from rheu-
matism. He says:—“l have now perfectly re-
covered, and it is entirely owing to the free appli-
cation of your wonderful remedy—St. Jacobs Oil.’
A CASH reward of £lOO will be paid by the
CHARLES A. VOGLER COMPANY, of BALTI-
MORE, MARYLAND, UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives, to any per-
son producing proof to the effect that the testi-
monials published by them in regard to St. Jacobs
Oil are not strictly genuine.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers every-
where.
Price, HALF-A-CROWN.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales
ELLIOTT BROS, and CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet roams tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney. *
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold hy
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. (id. Rigney, 141 King-street.
Sheep-Farming in N.S.W. —Wool, which is the
staple production of the country, is according to
the latest statistics, being sent away in larger
quantities than ever, showing that sheep-farming
has considerable attractions. Formerly the pur-
suit was attended with a certain amount of risk,
and the great distance from the station that a
doctor could be found necessarily increased the
danger when illness occured. The introduction of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne has dispelled this
alarm, as the shevp-farmers know this invaluable
remedy to he a compendious medicine chest in
itself, and a specific for all the diseases incidental
to their following. Insist upon having “Free-
man’s” only. Trade mark, an elephant.—obtain-
able from aU chemigts and storekeepers.
THE HALF WAS NEVER TOLD
Of the wonderful powers and virtues of that best of all medi-
cines, Dr. Bell's Bitters. It has been tried and proved. Its
cases are numberless, and the record of supposed, incurable
cases that have yielded to its influence is astounding. If
you have trouble with your kidneys, liver, or bowels, if you
suffer from constipation or piles, if you are a victim of rheu-
matism or malaria, take Dr. Bell's Bitters. You will find it
the remedy you need.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Pisces.
THOSE TRAMS AGAIN.
A HARD BARGAIN.
ENTOLMOLOGICALL V-INCLINED YOUNG LADY: “NOW, MY LITTLE BOY, I WANT
YOU TO GIVE ME THE LOCUST YOU HAVE IN YOUR HAND.”
HE: “ALL RIGHT, MISS, I’LL GIVE IT YER IF YE’LL MENU MY TROUSERS.
To the Editor.
Sir, —No one can travel half an hour in our
clean tramcars without a grievance. Either
somebody tramples on his toes, or the conductor
is too surly or too fresh. If the car is crowded he
is obliged to hang on the platform and get
squeezed against the rail, all the time haunted by
the horrible suspicion that somebody is picking
his pocket. There is a certain class of citizens
who are very disagreeable fellow-passangers on a
street car. They are a loud-talking, grinning,
boisterous lot, one of whom will not hesitate to
bellow an ancedote of how he got the best of a
brother dealer in the matter of 50 cases of over-
alls over a stranger’s shoulders, and in regard to
! pushing and jostiing these ruffians are particularly
violent and forward. The only method of self-
vindication is to tramp on their toes. They are
nearly all martys at the corn and bunion shrine,
and when this punishment is properly administered
they will have no voice for anything but dismal
groans during the rest of the journey. The ladies
often distinguish themselves in the nuisance line.
If, when standing up and hanging on to the
straps, an unfortunate citizen chances to bump
against them they favor him with a ferocious
“ tell- my - big - brother - and - have - you - licked ”
glance, making no allowance for the awkwartjness
of his position. Some read the papers and tickle
your ribs with their elbows, or suddenly choke
with laughter as they fall across one of the funDy
advertisements of Summerflold and Company, the
well-known tailors and great juvenile outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street who are showing start-
ling lines in boys’ school suits, at 7s. 6d. and
Bs. lid. Pretty drill washing sailor suits, blue
collars and cuffs, all sizes. ss. lid. for big boys
and youths, tailor’s-made suits from 21s. to 355.
I am, Sir, your brother-in-arms,
LAUGH AGAIN.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERE S THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrumen
which, while it weighs less than three pounds ht
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and execute
its music with absolute precision and perfec
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in thre
keys, and all the parts of most difficult music. O
it a child can correctly play, without instractior
any of its music, which at present consists of eve
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &cs. 1
is best adapted, to the kind of music which suits a
organ best, but also- has wonderful power in exe
cuting very lively pieces, m" It is pitched for th
voice, and has a little card holder for convenienc
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for countr
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, an
also for dancing. The music is compact, and fa
cheaper than that which is made for any organettc
The Autophone is like every other good thing, th
longer you have it the better you like it, and a
new music is being published every week it has aa
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each! instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of prioe.
Sole Agents for Australfe and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMHROI!
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this -
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen,— It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the WAtch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watehes I have hitherto tested. Tt main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochroniam of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, those
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect
“Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches whieh are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
Pieet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Notk. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ora
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
all appearanoe and in wearing qualities the
f of silver.
in National Watch Co.’s Key winding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band ease, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 llnejewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, piteut pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ...
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£3 0
£3 10
£3 5
3 15
£lO 0 0
ORIENTAL
Is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
aad endurance of sterling Sold'. A legi-
tlmat® UB6 has been found for this nobis metal, by
working H into Jewollsry of ths most exquisite da -
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEREAG-H-ST., Sydney, has
large consignments ef these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, aH of Oriental Sold—
Broaches,sB.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brllliantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55.. Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Loeket
ss.,Jewelled, lOs.; Ladles’Alberts
payable Oriental Gold
Co.
Wo send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Kail, and we repay the eash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD 00.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by poafc.


One of the leading bakers of Sydney
admits that he has lost £2O per week by the scan-
dalous action of the authorities in insisting that
all loaves shall be full weight.
Mndgee Taylor writes : —“ Being confined
to my room through an accident to my foot, I have
been obliged to suspend the publication of my
political criticisms till I get better.” We al-
ways did think that with his feet.
Sarah Howard got three months for steal-
ing Father O’Meara’s vestments from a Melbourne
church. Rum and religious feeling were at the
bottom of Sarah’s trouble. She merely borrowed
those vestments to frighten away “ all the devils
of hell.” Unfortunately the one who took Sarah
in charge refused to be frightened.
The evidence of the Campbell divorce
case is said to be “ more repulsive in its un-
clean character than any ever given in an Eng-
lish oourt of law.” So far, Lady Colin has rather
the worst of the argument, and one of her wit-
nesses, a lady friend, who alleges that she saw
eorfcaia naughty things going on, has been clean
bowled out by the medical evidence.
There were some ghastly omens at the
Mount Rennie trial. Firstly, the prisoners had
the hick to be tried before Judge Windeyer, who
is not a “ soft ” man, and who, if lie believes a
man to be guilty, generally manages to let the jury
see It. Nextly, a certain very well known under-
taker was, during- the progress of the case, con-
stantly and prominently en evidence. “ Nosey
Bob,” the hangman, bustled in and out of the
court a good many times, and for some hours ex-
hibited his hideous countenance to the assembled
Bpeetators.
“ All things come to him who knows how
to wait.” Stephenson (the informer) and Lambert,
the principal witnesses for the prosecution in the
great N.S.W. rail way-fraud cases, have skipped
beyond the ken of the detectives. The Crown
has consequently applied for a further postpone-
ment of this interminable trial, which, after oc-
cupying the Police Court for a few weeks, went
into the Supreme Court, where, after making a
juror very ill, it helped to kill the presiding judge,
the late lamented Sir James Martin, C.J. It
would be interesting to know the amount already
expended by the Crown in feeing counsel in this
monstrous legal juggle. The defendants, who at
this their second trial have put in a plpa of “ de-
fence,” contend that as the jury who sat before
Sir James Martin intimated, after the judge’s
death, that they were ready with their verdict,
and as that jury has never been formally dis-
charged, it is illegal now to proceed further with
the charges. A queer fact in connection with this
second trial is that a woman is at the bottom of it
—that, in fact, it has been in one sense brought
about by a buxom servant girl.
The George Hotel, Market and Pitt-
Streets.
A grand and lofty new hotel, The George, which
has for many months been in course of erection at
the corner of Pitt and Market-streets and adjoin-
ing Her Majesty’s Theatre, has just been opened
by Mr. Harry Payten, the widely-known sports-
man and boniface of Goulburn. Great efforts
were made by the theatre syndical e to secure the
corner for the purpose of a grand theatre hotel,
but the owner, Mr. George Hill, declined the
figure offered, and as a result we have a fine new
hotel that really is of advantage to Sydney. The
George has a grand frontage to Market-street and
rises to a height of six storeys, having on its
summit an expansive promenade “Look Out.”
Deep excavations were made for the basement,
and vast and cool cellarage and store room have
thus been secured. At the corner ia a grand
public bar of now design and very elaborately
furnished, and a fine private bar is likowise pro-
vided. On the street level, Market-street side,
is a commodious commercial and reading room—a
feature new to Sydney hotels. This the proprietor
means to conduct on a new stylo as far as Sydney
Is concerned, furnishing it with all the latest
newspapers and publications. Privacy, com-
fort, vontilation, and freshnesi must como
from the bedroom arrangements, and the
architects, Messrs. Rowo and Green, deserve
any amount of credit for the skilful manipulation
of the space available. Baths, &0,, are on every
floor ; lifts travel the whole building for the or-
dinary requirements of the hotel, and, in addi-
tion, there is a ground passenger lift, worked by
hydrajilics, which runs from basement to top-
most area with the greatest facility. On the
ground floor is a spacious dining-roem elegantly
furnished, cool, and well lit, and here a first-class
luncheon, in addition to the ordinary table d'hote,
will be served daily. On tho same floor, at the
opposite end of the building, is a grand billiard-
MR. HARRY PAY[?]EN.
room fitted with two of Alcock s best billiard-
tables and all the latest and newest billiard fur-
niture. The cooking is done on the ba3ement,
with splendid ranges. The great feature of the
hotel will be the “ look out ” promenade on the
roof, separated from all other parts of the build-
ing. It commands a view over the house-tops of
all Sydney, of the parks, the harbeur, the oceaD,
and the far-distant mountains. It is virtually a
glorious little garden in mid-air, and every breeze
that blow* from the ocean is enjoyed there. Most
N.S. Wales, Victorian, and Queensland people
know the proprietor, Mr. Harry Pay ten. He’s born
to the business, hospitable, yet a capital manager,
that The George will he a big hit in
his hands is simply a certainty. On the
Bth inst. the formal opening of the hotel took
place, and, despite the wet weather a goodly
number of friends were present an an enjoyable
luncheon. Among the guests were Mr. F. Tait,
M.P.; Mr. D. O'Connor, M.P. ; Messrs. George
Thornton, F. Gann-on, James Allison, Mr. Green,
James Hunt, William Beach, J. Conroy, Mr.
M'Arthur Webster, Mr. F. Smith, Skarratt,
J. Garling, H. Oxenham, C. Huenerbeiir, Glen-
ister and Ritchie, and Pain, Holdsworlh and Co.
Mr. F. Gannon proposed the health of the proprie-
tor of The George, and refened in very compli-
mentary terms to him both as a sportsman and as
a citizep, and he could not hut succeed in Sydney,
seeing that he was known not only in Sydney but
all over the colonies. Mr. Payton, who received a
grand reception on rising to reply, said his 1(5
years' experience in the business would enable
him, he thought, to make The George a big
success, and his friends could always count on the
same welcome as of old, After the luncheon the
pariy were conducted through the hotel, and very
high eulogiums were passed on ail coneerned in
the erection of the grand edifice.*
An “informer” was badly sold the other
day near Townsville (Q.). He was a revenue
jackal and made his living by entrapping small
storekeepers into selling him a bottle of whisky
and then laying an information against them.
On his last public appearance he figured as a
bushman on the wallaby, and after laying in his
stores, he almost prayed for some liquor ; it might
save his life in the bush on an emergency, and it
could go down on the account as “ pickles.” It
did go down accordingly—“ one bottle picales,
7s. 6d. ” —and then with a triumphant grin the
snake-juice hunter said : “My good sir, I have to
inform you that I am an official of the Revenue
Department, and it will be my painful duty to lay
an information against you for having infringed
the law by selling me a bottle of—what’s
this ?” “ It’s pickles, my good fellow,” said the
storekeeper, blandly. “ Seven-and-six ; pickles is
riz in price, you see. I knew your hang-dog mug
the instant you came in. But they’re awfully
good pickles and they’re worth the money any-
where. Got out, or I’ll cowhide you'down the
street.” The revenue man “got.”
PREJUDICE.
Surry Hills, 364 Cleveland St. (Sydney)
N.S.W., May 1, 1886. —About the beginning of
last December I was taken with what some call
the Colonial Fever. I shook from head to foot,
accompanied with cold clammy perspiration, was
exceedingly nervous, and had aching pains all
over my body. My appetite failed, and I was
thought to be near my end. During this time I
was attended by medical men without the least
beneficial result. I was advised to try Warner’s
safe cure. My preiudice against proprietary
medicines was such that, although I had the best
evidence of the value of the medicine, I did not
for some time try it; when I did, however, I had
not taken more than two bottles when I began to
prove its value. Eight bottles taken and I was at
work again quite weII.—JOHN HAYES.
CURED THE BANK MANAGER.
National Bank of Australia, Georges y x.
S.A., July 27, 1886. —When I was a boy, J 1 . J
what Dr. Crooks, of Melbourne, ■»A ,O a
severe attack of dropsy, and ever sincu, 1 I. re-
cently, I have suffered from pain and wellness in
the small of my back. A few months ago the pain
increased considerably, and I felt the same drow-
siness that I experienced before I had dropsy.
Seeing that Warner's safe cure was advertised
a remedy for kidney disease, I procured and took
one bottle, and then another I did not Beem to
get much benefit from them, but being determined
to give it a fair trial, purchased half a dozen
bottles. Before I had finished the third bottle, I
felt considerably better, and after the fourth, was
completely cured, not having felt any pain or
drowsiness since. lam letting a friend have the
remaining bottles, for I don’t think I shall need
any more. —E. M’MICHAEL.
IN PRISON.
“ I see,” said an Adelaide gentleman who was
arrested, tried, and convicted a short time ago for
an offence which startled the whole community.
“ It's terrible for a man to be in prison. I suppose
they are not allowed to have a cigar?” “No,
sir.” “ It’s hard. Not even a bottle of that
famous St. Louis Lager Beer?” ‘No, sir.’ Just
see what I have lost—health, happiness, and a
good name.
ROYAL.
T
HEAT
K E
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS
OE THE MOST LAUGHABLE
and the
FUNNIEST of FUNNY COMEDIES.
ONLY DUST. ONLY
ONLY DUST. ONLY
ONLY DUST. ONLY
ONLY DUST. ONLY
DUST. ONLY DUST.
DUST. ONLY DUST.
DUST. ONLY DUST.
DUST. ONLY DUST.
SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNORA MAJERONI,
MR. J. It. GREVILLE,
and full strength of the company.
Prices as usual.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
gTRASBURG CLOCK.
APOLLO HALL,
Kidman’s-buildings, Market-street.
Open daily, from 2to 5 and 7 to 10.
THE ONLY PERFECT MODEL of the
GREAT ASTRONOMICAL, MECHANICAL, and
APOSTOLIC CLOCK OF STRASBURG
Grand PROCESSION W C TIIE APOSTLES
every 15 minutes.
THE DENIAL OF PETER.
THE STEALTHY VISIT OF SATAN.
The Model is 12 feet high and 6 feet wide, being
one-fifth the size of the original, forming the most
marvellous and interesting Exhibition ever pre-
sented to the public of Sydney.
Admission Is. children Gd.
C. JAMESON, Proprietor.
WM. GIFFETT, Agent.
CLEVELAND STREET SUPERIOR PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
On FRIDAY EVENING, 17th inst., at the
NEW MASONIC HALL, CASTLEREAGH-ST.
G. F. ROOT'S CANTATA,
“ THE FLOWER QUEEN,”
will be performed in two parts by the pupils and
Junior Teachers of the above School, assisted by
Mr. PERCY JONES and Miss EMONIE
HAMILTON.
CONDUCTOR, Mr, J. A. DELANEY.
Between the first and second parts of the Cantata
A GRAND FLORAL MARCH
will be performed by the pupils under the con-
ductorship of MR. EDWARD M‘LEAN.
Under the distinguished patronage and in the
presence of His Excellency the Governor Lord
Carington, Lady Carington, and suite, &c.
Reserved Seats, ss. Body of Hall, 3s. Gallery, 2s.
Doors open at 7.15. Concert to commence at 8.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
Wingham, Saturday and Monday, Dec. 18 and 20.
Cundleton, Tuesday, Dec. 21.
Croki, Wednesday, Dec. 22.
Coopernook, Thursday Dec. 23.
Laurieton, Friday Dec. 24.
Port Macquarie, Mon. and Tues., Dec. 27 and 28*
BERT WII LISON
HAS returned to Australia in advance of
Fryer’s Circus and Menagerie. Managers
and others desiring route, &c., write Adelaide.
S. A.
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
AI HAMBE A MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Even
at 7.30.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, p,nd at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
CAIKiISIG IN ALL ITS It RANCHES,
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 14, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in tlje colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Snjpplfes.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Court House atid
Wardens’ Quarters, Silrerton
Laying and Jointing about Five
Miles Piping—Sydney Water
Supply
Erection of New Court House,
Hay
Construction of Passenger Sta-
tion, Cootamundra
Refrigerating Appliances and
Alterations, Meat Market,
Darling Harbour
Emptying Privies, Victoria
Barracks, &c.,1887.
Tuesday,
December 21,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Barracks, Naval
Station, Garden Island
No. 2 Contract : Bridge, Snowy
River, at Buckley’s Crossing
Post and Telegraph Office, Wee
Waa
Additions Post and Telegraph
Office, Mudgee
Construction of Earth Closets,
&c.. Railway Works, Eveleigh
Erection Band Stand, Botanic
Gardens
Supply of Building Sand, Rail-
way Departmont, 1887
Tuesday,
December 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture in Colony of 3 Lo-
comotive Boilers for G.S. &
W. Railways
Tuesday,
January 4,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Steel-wire Rope, North |
Shore Cable Tramway
Tuesday,
January 25,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and Amber.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 LITTLE COLLINS STItIET EAST, Melbourne,
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
SHornra.
V YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USB,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM
STERLING QUALITY,
Lowest Prices.
Mmra
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED,


THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
And FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, 6J Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 8j Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 18G9).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
lilt Ano ties : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
T> M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
12 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. Prom R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expeaitKn and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
premp'- ,y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
Flour! Flour I Flour I
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
MEXSXCiaiTE
T. JONES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination', Ldndoh),
Medicine, Perfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality-
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI,
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
- will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
> necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
"I his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
-Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
<i ,s agency can he seen. Admitted by the Medical
‘Faculty to he the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street only.
•#llO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
■Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
$7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets,
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
190 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and F.lectro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in fhe world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Comer for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Railway—Section 2.
lENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
-—in accordance with Plans, Sections, Drawings,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endorred “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way,” must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 11 day of January, 18S7.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
Under llie Patronage of Ills Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
■ ' i A ivt
Establishments : 1
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
JP -A- Hi T.i 3^-A.XjT.ij
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING I
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was j
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE"
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’ r
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
Worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
The beat medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORB-STEEET, SYDNEY.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
E V SHOULD Y USE } PEIELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJEI
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Gbobge-strsbx, Sidney,
WHA
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
fail to impress
fact. Thoua-
ands are using; it,
it is a medicine
even more than
WILL
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. My
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
jight spot, and puts all
’'Vie machinery of your
body into working order.
CONVINCE
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat, anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the window, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
l'r you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific for. Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIED,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LlVER—the great organs of the body—
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Note.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Oid People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o
BUTOHEB, FEHON & G 0„ Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly how Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
r
V-T-
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
\mWtic
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY 1
Pfiposite jLassetCens
//
E 1 El NN EH, HITS - ’S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
208 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. G-ARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-clasa
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can.be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBIT!
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
» and CO.’S
Cognao.
*. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day In Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. ‘For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rgIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N, F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHa¥eMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
VOLUMES New and Secondhand
Books always on view at
25,000
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
/<?/<?
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in the
/LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


RAW VASELINE.
%
A
¥(
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches :
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YOKK ST., SYDNEY.
\V-
*5
<b^
O
o v
£'
s rß
A*(*
<; v
6£°
LM
s° 7 -^-
fiA
d2S
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS *»<i OAFS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
4ZO Gwrge S?
JAMES STEDMAN
Stcam works,Kent $ t near Ermine ST s
CeJsU* OM' s£U*o, OMi>l
TO OR OS fi OR SHORT AST ftOTIGR.
#*>■
SINGER
and Co.’3
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANIS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I HE
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS!
AND ALL CHEST AFWECTIONS
r, T , p fi.E pA RED ONLY BY rX- !
f®» 4} T PfcO MAS iNGHAM.'f
o G K H AMP T O IST. ’’ I
p
I
i
1.1
A
r ATKINSON’S N
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PATHS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting m use.
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers —
J & E ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on*
fcs Lyre."
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincoladel norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &o.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st,
J» V, WARHEAM, Manager,
invite inspection of our LARUE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all classes of
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
GENERAL IFTXIRIsriSIXIIN'G- IOXiAATPIEIR'^r.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
■
-RS : a
■*
vn
ra 4
rCTTIi!
wnn
i. Hi.-' i
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
2ft. ~i ... £0 18 0
3ft 10 0
3ft. Gin. ... 1 2 0
4ft 14 0
4ft. Gin. ...150
DOUBLE FOUL-LOST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTR ALL, £2 ss.
Write or send for our revised - 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
■ 1 i’.;'/ :
a w* rti
hi m
©
> \ \rl
t<L
VP
J 1 IX
m
IMk
m
m
MZ'm
3
\ ®
X/
mm
m
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
p»i a r^ T "> r v ' '
NEWEST SHAPES 1
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
kfs3 smsm
is 3 if %m mim, si
iefSs
8. if
- •:••
ml
*:j
wi>
vit
62J mm
j o s
niflfl
J fc?a
'
fsnßj. 8 fcsls isfl
FS-*» USigS* id
S&llfrscft
Esses, EsLiai- id
Saisisii, f; it | ill
fcwMus. Iliifs
oves s&fisfastSsa.
"IS W’
BOSTON?,
smsNpa-A,
PHILA-T
fsea.
6878.
C.t. **' r 'T HAWAY&sansb
l . „ StmSb S&ilm
mass., rr,3.A-
UMBR
LLAS
■E&OVE&JKr
b.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes Repairs neatly executed
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, mid tilnnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Go-
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital ... - £25,000.
Head Geitice : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
itST Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requea
J, CCraiKCHAM,
MARGARET-STREET, WYNWAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
HERV
SHAH*
.
TREATMENT
Tjt. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment,
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits
•Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused b
the use ofalcohol ortobaceo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression
'Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading t
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused b
over-esertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each hoi
•contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes fo
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar
anteesix boxes T-■ cure ANY case. With each order re
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we wil
end the purchaser our written guarantee to refund th
.coney if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantee
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£OlOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
Tolaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated bills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and. imitations. The
.genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. p?rbox in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
.Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
•Mumps, Hip 'Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY. CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY !
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS.
£35
PI AN OFORTF t
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
Cish only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-stroet. ,
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, , DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
W
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
J
[ 23
LS J
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimea
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY.
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, an<*
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
■'VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
■LA SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from 5s. 6d. each.
LEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
Ktzal
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.-The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass, Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SPRING MATTRASSES-.
Woven Wire, bes-
make; also, Spiral Spring*
Price, from 14s, pach.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB,


Grim Death at the Wheel. —A Mummy on the Look-out.


ttY THE PROPRIETOR,
SALK CfifLll
TOOTH,PASTE
* UfhotyLLEO '£% rrs/u/iiSEfnc
CLEAf/sif/6 PROPERTIES .
,Melhuish
, 134 Willi a
Pharmaceutical Chemist
V ST, SYDNEY'S!!
DOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods m the above Lines.]
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
FLEAS FLIES. BEETLESMOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
a-
m
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
N \ v\
X
w
§
A
w
,4?
PTrAUCHEMISTf
AND STOREKEEPERS;
WHOICSAIX ;
FELTON-CRIMWAD£V.C®i
MELBOURNE.—- i
aSIIOH AH3AH NI aaXNYAV
1“ | Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
JUDSONS
ERFECT
URITY”
JUDSON’S “PERFECT PURITY" FILTERS
ARB THE ONLY RELIABLE FILTERS.
E2GHE6T AWARDB—Diploma of Merit, Diploma of Honour and Silver
Medal, Inventions Exhibition, London, 1886.
CATALOGUES POST FREE.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED!, London and New York.
5 vjj
f v^J
m
HENRY LANCASTER,
yr C/S TJFArAr-S
yv/Wtf-/' Aa//vsi>*
/ 0/7 .v|
' £M/_ VA/v/s/ro
: <*-:
2
'■lllilllltlf'lltltil!
/TX z t RON
/ cr WATER CA
CANT.
BOOY
UUlilUlil
HOT
WATER
IMP
NOT AFFECTED
BY WEATHER
ICYLINDER
THTLE TRO
lUIUlix
UCHX
I’JJT *G>TOC Tk ouuk
CANNOT BE BROKEN!!
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wood
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
See., Sc o.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 G-EORG-E STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
ORGANS!
SOLS AGENTS FOR THE
“SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,
ZPHLAJSTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
THE GREAT LITER REMEDY,
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
bury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
tff»nrnnghlv recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I hare yet to hear that they have aot afforded
feamediate relief.
464 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver ana
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. 15y its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving for
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigor to the whole system. Price 4s. Bd.
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney,
N.S.W.; London, Eng,
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
THE original
C^.bAKI
&
»»T/,rwt» A
FIRST C LA Sc> AWARD
HIGHEST: DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHEREST I NTH EWORLD!!
RONE OTHER BUT *
ItaKtfAOUMo pyJames Chanhon
€& S* SYMtT f
$43 to Ail NcirMid Sfcwtkwpßit
ARTIFICIALTEETH
PLETE
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
J 33 ELIZABETH ST
Robert butcher & cO.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
13T receive prompt attention.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
!Nin' tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
Agents lor New South Wales
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
TRAPP & ELLES
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enorr ? s sale in England,
and is now bC introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS, *Wtl
505, 507, 507£ GEORGE STREET,
KBT Every article in the trade. 1 f Caterers supplied
with New Goods. .
Acme Loaenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in $ and llb tina
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are aU of
regular quality.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,.
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
n
r'
mms
Finger on the trigger-line, keeping cool and steady,
No fussing round the oamera, or firing tiM you’re
ready;
Train, or tram, or steamer, trioycle or bike,
There’s nothing now lttilf fast enough, take wMoh
one you Mke.
By the sad sea waves she photos while tbeynaoani
Of love she never raves, but plays her hand alone t
Her camera the friend to help her fancy’s flight;
Her Mfe is one long blend of beauty with de-light.
L
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be bad at
prices to suit all requirements.
tsr Send for GaUloga*. IS®
''"" ..*■■■• . — r ■ ■=sssmamsat
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want “BOOKS.”
ANGUS &, ROBERTSON
m mikkot STBurr, stikney, *
luargo stook of new and second-hand Books. Pr*oe of any book on application, (Books sen*
mail to any part ed Australia, .


ALLAH A. MARSHALL & CO.,
ZUPOWTEaS aad MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Bkuw and Bed Folding, Fialsking, Art Metal Work, Coppersraithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
gnnflrtitinc. Tank asd Girder Bmlding, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH,” “VALVB,” and “PAN” CLOSETS. “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &C.
Sate Agents for Verity Kras., Patent Air rrepeilers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, ©as Fires, Heaters,
Warners, «te.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
FUEC, PARTICULARS AND PRICK ON APPLICATION.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T- -A-. IPa-sr cS z, Co., Clncln.:na/tl
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERT REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
SkND for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines'
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OP ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OP WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
tSF A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous s£3 Cases, containing the following i
3 Bottles BRANDY
i Bottle JAMAICA RUM
i Bottle PORI WINE
3 Bottlea WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS:
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Ihe articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P, E. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NUW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AN®
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUS|CRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALT, AAH BROTHERS.
LEA&PERRINS' SAUCE
SAUS
58UW
sAiTpßttWifij
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapisr, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <s re., &Tc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents ; Moni’kfiokk, Joseph & Co.; David Cohex & Co., Sydney.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERGER,
AND IMPORTER OP
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
C -A_ H. 31. _A.T
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace,
Where yon ean getjl
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to yom measure) for 10/5,
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Fit Guaranteed.
PATTERN|AND .MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST.} I*®*
722 George-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music Hall.
PERDRIAU & 00.,
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
18 ERSKINE STREET.
GARDEN HOSE, ALL SIZES AND LENGTHS. IS*
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general purpose*.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
%
} OOT
_ _ <£*
Shoe BaZAajr
252 a Gecrjfe S *
Lj ZgjLs jPactle tzrul' Ifnrccicrl' SXBJOaL
ATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STREET.]
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones' Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d,
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs Is.
Clayton s Nervine tor toothache and cold i the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Caatharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patehea and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & GO..
177, 288 and 266 PITT STREET.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OP KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATH OP INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans oa Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J: Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
t. .ant Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the’Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coeoa, &0-, with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, erders may be left tor delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency foe
“ KOUMISS.” so highly reoommehded in pnlmo.
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office ... ... 21 Harbour-street.
Stables ... ..; ... Liverpool-streefc,
Factory Mittegong.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIIHWOI,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES j
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & GO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA!
J. S. PRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
11 AN ORDINARY COT CONTAINS MOB.H AOiTYB IHftOPRRTIKB OT MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER. Lamcse.
E. ROWLANDS,
lATJG ROWIAVDA k LliWlk
Manufacturer of all kinds of jSSsaied Waters, Gordiale, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
WAJAAJfcAl 1 , aad at
3 1 amd 33 HUM TER STREET, SYDNEY.
Galesifca H*h|bitio« awarded tke OKLI GdLD MEDAL tmx JBbm led and MEiuhkvl Waters ; al«o, another Gold Medal f«fr Lique*u*, Bitters, &c.
