

The Bulletin


ASK FOK COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
£DE
PROOF
N ’ES^.
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & GO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE .STREET, SYDNEY.
0
CO
Q
XXI
25
. o
Mfe'
CM
QQ 2 in
i
CD
QC
S'
0
RE&9
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st. } Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Used by All the
Leading Citizen*,
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD l
Sic
>■
1 >
-
m
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
&
MtJARTIIY & 00.,
TOBACCO MERCHANTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
KS" Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N. B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices!
SAUCE
sd
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
PERRINS* Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper Label Bottle and.
M/ k ’ London , &V-> &C.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Whol6»ale Agents: Montefiobe, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
Roberts; chalmers, &. co,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANT
Importers of
AT
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING T
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL Lg)
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACIIBUILDERS’
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. No.
r'l
ipo>;
plain
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, i £
S 'REWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS
Patent rolled shafting, quicksilver, &c.
'Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED pULh
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and I Ai
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS,
&
Head Warehouse •
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores- • •
• 51 YORK STREET. „ rfic!
• HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLAS
GRACECHURCH STREEj
London Office
i/Wv
W
my
i*p
JLI
i'fill
31
JHS
ftOMASQM
h mt*'
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY,
DJXSON
)im & sons n'O
CONQUEROR
YANKEE
SIR ROGER,.*'
f & SONS _ M
nailrod
n & sons , _ - n
CHAMP &l>
)N & SONS
CUT.In Tins PflCi<cf5 y yNR£
R.C.RUBY.ORIENTALMIa |U ,,
OIXSON 4 SONS
YA
QIXSON
<
QIXSON & SONS
OIXSO
. ■ I
OIXSON * SONS
IWN IrOTS
f %IW
monJj>
m
6®
S 5?
mw°
Tram**'' Land
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georg e-stre et.
K. II A> KEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, an! MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. : —
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies , Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
***
Square Gin ...
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, fid. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanuey attends personally on lady patrons
machinery
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST e
CRAH £S
Af“>
koisTl*-'
ehciW* 8,
o* ,s ‘
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUN^ r
ESTIMATED FOR COME 13
UNCH£ 8)
ROBERT COOPER „
' SOLE A REN*.
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melb °cTßEiT'
22, KING S TRE


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 347.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1880.
Price., od.
Asleep on the Battle-Field.
“We have a good army and plenty of fight in us, but where is our General ? ” —Sydney Globe


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pttt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. .. £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ~ .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. U. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £l.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted —whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as striotly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1886.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance —which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
Bon Voyage !
Some days ago, just before the Consul at
Sydney for the United States of America left
our shores on a visit to his native land, a num-
ber of prominent citizens assembled at a bril-
liant banquet to wish him GoD-speed and desire
his quick return, bringing with him an im-
proved appetite and a higher official rank.
As a rule it is unwise to attach much sig-
nificance to speeches delivered at such
gatherings. They are mostly of the florid
type of oratory and in not a few cases break
through the thin partition dividing real feel-
ing from unreal fustian. But at the late
banquet representative men alone spoke-
men generally recognised as the exponents
of colonial thought and culture—men of light
and leading. Their opinions, calmly pon-
dered, calmly expressed, passed —or were
intended to pass—over the heads of their
audience and reached the public. Let us
hearken.
* * *
To begin with Sir James Martin :
“ I came here,” said he, “to express my sincere
and heartfelt desire for the closer union between the
British Empire and those great confederate States
of America. . . . Europe is armed to the
teeth. It is therefore of the utmost importance
that these two great communities, neither of them
desirous of conquest . . . both of them so
powerful—together irresistible—should be bound
together in the closest ties. . . The English
character of the United States still stands as good
as when they were the 13 colonies of America.
» . . There is the community of race and the
community of blood. . . . There was a time
When it was said that the high offices of the
United States did not fall to the lot of the most
eminent men. ... In the list of Presidents
there were men who could not be said to be
eminent. . . . The time is coming when . . .
a tie of steel will hind them [England and
America]. I propose ‘ The President of the United
States, who, next to the Queen of England, is
Worthy of the highest honour from the lips of
Englishmen.’ ”
Let us try and examine these excerpta and
the lessons sought to be inculcated by them.
Let us turn on them, not the rush-light of
harrow patriotism, but the bull’s-eye of com-
mon-sense cosmopolitanism.
* * *
Over a hundred years ago, when the
Obstinacy and savagery of our present Mon-
arch’s grandfather convinced the sturdy
Tom Paine that in independence alone lay
America’s chance of happiness, the convic-
tion was accompanied with the assurance
that in the struggle for existence a mixed
breed will leave a pure one hopelessly be-
hind. So the States, when they shook them-
selves free of Guelphs, Hessians, and
Indians, opened wide their doors to the down-
trodden of all lands. Germans, yho had
Smarted under the canes of Frederick’s
Corporals ; Frenchmen, who had struggled
Under Bourbon rods ; Irishmen, half-flayed
by Lake’s cat-o’-nine-tails ; Italians, Poles,
Scandinavians, all turned to the West. To
call the Americans a “ British people ” is on
a par with calling the inhabitants of the
French-speaking Swiss Cantons, “Gauls.” A
good deal of innocent enjoyment is some-
times derived from this tendency to claim as
cousins those who happen to speak our
tongue. When the Brooklyn and Bowery
legionaries executed a masterly movement
at Bull’s Run, leaving their commissariat
and cannon behind, London journals made
things pleasant by addressing them as
“ Yankee pedlars ” who would never be got
to face Southern chivalry. When Grant’s
doggedness opened the way to Richmond,
British broadsheets referred to his troops as
“Anglo-American eagles.”
When prominent men both here and at
home take credit for the non-aggressive
characteristics of our race, the Russian lady’s
delicate way of putting the case to the Eng-
lish ambassador occurs —“ for people who
have no appetite it must be confessed you
English have made a remarkably good meal.”
Considering how the British Empire has
grown and is growing, the word “aggression,”
used as a term of reproach, is one which
English statesmen should studiously avoid.
A country just capable of occupying a circle
with a 200-mile radius, which has succeeded
in securing one-sixth of the earth’s dry land
and one-fifth of the earth’s inhabitants, must
be allowed to have made a hearty meal. It
is not strange that with such a dinner to
digest, her appetite should show signs of fail-
ing. Yet some doctors would assist her
powers of assimilation by prescribing a
dessert of Pacific islands. Sir James Martin
thinks that a close union between the British
Monarchy and the American Republic would
be able to impose peace on mankind. At a
London entertainment the other day a
ci-devant Radical, Sir Graham Berry, went
further. According to the Victorian Agent-
General, war was to be prevented by a good
understanding between Britain and her
colonies. When the nations learned that
perfect agreement existed between London
and Melbourne, the “ Marseillaise ” would
cease, the “Rhine Watch” be heard no
more. But even if the frankest cordiality
accompanied with the firmest alliance sprang
up between the Capitol and St. Stephen’s,
the effect upon European Cabinets would be
less than that caused by the movement of an
extra regiment of Zouaves towards the
Vosges or an additional troop of Cossacks
towards the Danube. On her own ground
America is impregnable. With this she is
content. Non-intervention in disturbances
outside her own territory is her traditional
policy. For her to play a leading part in
European affairs would not only be opposed I
alike to interest and common-sense but
would necessitate the creation of a vast
standing army with all its attendant evils.
The citizen who in Philadelphia or Washing-
ton stood up to advocate such a course would
find himself the object not so much of sus-
picion as of laughter.
* * *
Perhaps the oddest thing about this
bizarre desire for an offensive and defensive
alliance of the scattered communities speak-
ing the Saxon tongue is the fact of its being
almost entirely the growth of Australian
Conservatism. No English or American
public man hazards his reputation for sound
judgment by dallying with the wild sugges-
tion. It is not practicable—it is not meet.
Even if it were both, there are circumstances
connected with the thoughts, feelings, and
actions of the two countries which would
render such a union powerless for good.
Towards America, dependent or independent,
British “ society ” has always occupied the
place of a harsh step-mother. There is no
necessity to go with Sir James back to the
days of Washington or the war of 1812—to
examine again that item for ‘ ‘ scalping-
knives ” supplied by good King George to
his “loyal” Indians, or read with disgust of the
stupid Vandalism which found vent in des-
troying the Capitol—for illustrations of this
churlishness. Only the other day when
America was battling and bleeding in defence
of a great principle, derision, not sympathy,
came to her over the sea from Conservative
and Aristocratic Britain. It would not be
too much to say that, with a few honorable
exceptions here and there, passionate sup-
plications went daily up from cultivated
English homes beseeching Heaven to look
kindly on the efforts of Davis and Lee— to
assist them in driving the wedge of Secession
through the heart of the Union. From Can-
terbury’s Archbishop in his palace to the
poor curate struggling with the filth and
foulmouthedness of “Seven Dials” as-
cended prayers for the success of the worst
cause for which brave men ever laid down
their lives. The “society” that snivelled
over “Uncle Tom” sneered and shot out
the tongue on reading how the ranks of those
who had sworn to wipe out LEGREE-ism
staggered, tattered and torn, from the guns
of Stonewall Jackson.
* * *
The following is, perhaps, a fair sample of
America’s attitude on this subject of rap-
prochement :
“You Australians are a peculiar people. You
are afraid to go alone—to even entertain the idea
of having to do it ultimately. Your highest
aspirations do not get beyond clinging to your
mother’s apron-strings or crowing with childish
glee over the pinchbeck decorations contemp-
tuously thrown you by distant officials to whom
you and your wives supply food for mirthful
bewilderment. With a land whose climate, soil,
and size point to a prosperous future, you shiver
at the word ‘ Independence ’ and tremble when a
Foreign Power seizes a few fever-stricken rocks
separated from you by 20 degrees of longitude.
And now you want us, who are at peace with all
men, to turn our country into a drill-ground, our
artisans and ploughmen into armed idlers, to
espouse your and your mother’s quarrels. Really,
gentlemen, your modesty is most attractive.”
* * *
Sir James Martin’s statement that all
the American Presidents were not eminent
men, but that many were merely “ respect-
able ”is a little curious. It is not difficult
to discover in it a mild undertone of com-
miseration—a friendly suggestion of the in-
feriority of Republicanism, so far at least as
success in choosing a First Magistrate is
concerned. No form of Government has
ever succeeded or ever will succeed in
always choosing the worthiest man to place
at the head of affairs. Republicanism
does not pretend to invariable success in
lifting the ablest to the top. It contents
itself with saying, ‘ ‘ Follow my plan and i:
you do not always get talent you will at least
get respectability.” But. there is another
method in vogue among men for obtaining
a ruler—a method which seldom succeeds in
securing either talent or repute. It is that
of heredity. Whether this absurd system
is viewed from an a priori standpoint or is
brought before the bar of universal ex-
perience, the verdict is the same—mostly
mischievous, always stupid. If proof were
wanting of the slow progress of mankind it
would be found in the prevalence of kings
after a trial extending over ages. In human
annals the longest and bloodiest pages detail
the vices of hereditary monarchs—the
dreariest their virtues. There is something
so exquisitely droll in a man’s governing
because his father did, that, but for its
lamentable consequences, it would provoke
mirth rather than alarm. Yet, in most
countries, bland, high-salaried Judges, patri-
cians, and priests, discover in it a marvellous
adaptation of means to ends—a nice con-
sonance with the laws of Nature and of
God. “ Whenever,” said a late philosopher
with brusque candour, “ I hear of an
‘ eternal truth,’ I think of an ‘ infernal lie.’ ”
This is the feeling that comes over one bred
in the creed of Democracy on reading of the
parallelism blasphemously sought to be
established between the rule of the Creator
and one of His creatures. When we hear of
Spain’s infant King squatting on a golden
salver and being carried naked, bawling, mew-
ing, and puking through a gorgeous hall that
white-haired statesmen and soldiers might
recognise their heaven-sent master, we feel
that—it is time to return to Sir Jambs
Martin.
* * *
“ Many of the American Presidents were
respectable, but not eminent men. ” With the
exception of the ten years from 1649 to 1659,
England since the conquest has enjoyed
hereditary rulers for over eight centuries.
But, omitting the present Monarch, there is
scarcely to be found one who was not a mur-
derer, a blackguard, a trull, or a fool. This
may sound harsh, but the evidence proving
its truth cannot be gainsaid. From the
time the canaille of Europe garotted England
under the First William to that when the
Fourth of the name bawled lewd stories
across his own table to the amazement of the
assembled ambassadors, the hereditary prin-
ciple has given us a succession of magistrates
whose names in most cases would fitly head
the rosters of the villainy of their time.
It would be tedious and unprofitable to go
through the whole list of royal rascals, nor
would we touch the unsavoury subject at all
but for Sir James Martin’s covert condem-
nation of the system where ‘ ‘ the high offices
did not fall to the lot of the most eminent
men.” But a few examples are necessary.
Beginning, then, with the present dynasty,
George I. burnt the wills of his wife and
father-in-law and so possessed himself of
property intended for others. He kept his
wife in prison for 32 years and was with
difficulty prevented from putting his son to
death for visiting her there. He kept a
seraglio with two eunuchs— Mustapha and
Mahomet —to mind it. His favourite mis-
tresses, Kilmansegge and Schulenberg—
the latter known as the “Giraffe,” the
former as the “ Elephant’’—were made
Countess of Darlington and Duchess of
Kendal. They were the ugliest women of
their age, but, as Chesterfield said of his
Sovereign, ‘ ‘ no woman came amiss to him if
she were only very willing and very fat.”
George 11. destroyed his father’s will. The
morals of his court were indescribable. His
Queen filled towards him the dual offices of
wife and procuress. Says Macaulay : “ Not
one magnanimous or humane action Is re-
corded of him.” He consoled his dying wife
with ‘‘ j’aurai des mattresses,” when she ad-
vised him to marry again. George 111.
was unfortunately a lunatic during only part
of his reign. Had he been mad during the
whole of it, the country might have been
saved from humiliation and expense. He
spent £140,000,000 in vainly trying to
coerce America, and over £1,000,000,000
in bringing the Bourbons to Paris,
from which they were hunted 15 years
afterwards. He was a bigamist—a fact
which his promising son threatened to
make known if not supplied with money.
He applied to the Czarina of Russia for 20,000
troops to turn loose on the Americans, and,
being refused, secured as allies 17,000 Ger-
mans together with the Creek and Cherokee
Indians. During his madness, his sons
amused themselves by tying his leg to a bed-
post and playing at “bait the bear”
with the Defender of the Faith. George
IV. tried bigamy like his father, and used the
secret-service money to prove that his second
wife, Caroline of Brunswick, was an adul-
teress. As a liar and a roue he could hold his
own against all-comers, and was not above
lending himself to a racing swindle. Of Wil-
liam IV., Greville says, “ He always con-
tinued to be something of a blackguard and
something more of a buffoon.” When the
President of the Royal Academy showed
him the portrait of Admiral Napier, the
King courteously remarked:—“Captain
Napier may be damned, sir ! and you may
be damned, sir ! and if the Queen was not
here, sir, I would kick you down stairs, sir.”
How thankful we should be to live under a
system which, unlike the American, secures
the most eminent men for the highest
offices !
The Progress of New South Wales.
Ihe alarming indications of retrogression
which the recently-published N.S.W. official sta-
tistics for 1885 disclose, have, as is usual in such
cases, been studiously ignored by the Sydney daily
press. As we regard it as the first duty of the
Press to warn the public of dangers and expose
continuing evils, rather than to congratulate it on
unreal prosperity, we will, at the risk of being
somewhat unentertaining, notice a few facts culled
from the statistics referred to.
* * *
The rapidly-widening difference which ha
for the last few years existed between the import
and the exports has very much increased durin
1885. In 1883 it was £1,074,139, in 1884 it wa
£4,575,479, and in 1885 it amounted to nearly seve
millions (£6,923,451). This has not only been du
to an increase in the imports but also to a stead
decline in the exports. Not only have foreign good
been forcing N. S. W. out of hor own market to an in
creased extent, but she is gradually losing th
trade of the few outside markets to whie
she has had access, although from th
resumes of the 1885 statistics with whic
the public have been favoured it would seem tha
New South Wales continues on that uninterrupted
career of phenomenal prosperity of which we hav
heard so much. Yet, as a matter of fact, nothing
could more clearly demonstrate the fallacy of the
policy which has been pursued than do
these statistics; they prove that not even
the promiscuous circulation of enormou
sums of borrowed money has been able to
check the decline of trade and prevent the
rapid retrogression to be seen in every branch o
industry. With extensive lines of railway under
construction, which can never pay, with a loss o
nearly a million annually on the loan interest ae
count, with a rapidly increasing deficit of nearly two
millions, and with a land law which has had what
ever good there was in it squelched by gross mis
management, the colony is asked to look forward
to the cheerful prospect of inviting the world to
come, at the colonial expense, and see how success-
fully we have neutralised our magnificent re-
sources, and how prodigally we have expended
other people’s money and fostered the industries
of other countries.
* * *
The falling-off to which we have alluded
has been in most instances too marked and con-
tinuous to admit of Mr. Colonial-Secretary Dibbs’
favourite device of saddling Providence with
Ministerial improvidence. With hardly an ex-
ception the export of colonial productions has
been steadily falling off for the last five years.
Most of the important trades and manufactures
have also either declined or remained practically
at a standstill. The tonnage of vessels inwards
has decreased nearly a quarter of a million, and
the tonnage outward nearly half a million ; the
number of vessels built has fallen from 103
to 65 in 12 months, and the Customs figures
have been practically stationary. Turning to the
statistics referring to mills and manufactories, we
find that the refined sugar manufactured in the
colony decreased from 514,400 cwt. in 1880 to
380,550 in 1885 ; tobacco, from 24,654 cwt. in 1879
to 21,474 in 1885 ; soap and candles show a still
larger falling off; 45 per cent, of the woollen manu-
factories at work in 1879 have been abandoned,
the production standing at 187,750yd5. in 1885 as
against 330,037yd5. in 1878. The number of
stone-dressing works, paper-mills, glass-making
and staining works, tile works, and lime-kilns was
in each case twice as great in 1876 as in 1885 ;
while, during the same period, the establishments
i n other important trades —principally boot manu-
factories, jam manufactories, tanneries, ship and
boat-building yards, smelting works, and fell-
mongeries—have decreased to a greater or less
extent. This falling off has spread over 10 years,
during which time the population has increased
from 629,776 to a million, and the public debt has
quadrupled itself.
* * *
These figures, it will be seen, embrace a
period too long to admit of the customary plea of
meteorological misfortunes. They indicate very
clearly, to all who will permit themselves to be
convinced, that some radical error lies at the root
of the whole system of governmental and fiscal
policy. They ought to finally convince those
gentlemen (who, with our customary courtesy, we
will call the statesmen of the colony) who have
charge of the public concerns that the history, the
prejudices, and the mistakes of older and dif-
ferently-circumstanced lands are not necessarily
precedents which it devolves upon us to adhere to
at any cost. There is a very great opening for a
few men of independence and ability to get loose
amongst our one-horse road and bridge politicians
and rub into them the very necessary lesson that
the great nations have been those which have made
precedents instead of being governed by them. It
is not very reassuring to the people of N.S.W.
—who must have been feeling the brunt of the
hard times and foolish policy which these returns
reveal—to know that the power of remedy lay un-
fortunately in the hands of those remarkable
examples of general, all-round incapacity who
collectively form the Parliament, and who, with
characteristic imbecility, throw away every oppor-
tunity of reform and spend the time—as, indeed,
they have spent the last 12 months—in feeble
quarrels and useless blather, unrelieved by one
single useful measure, but occasionally varied
by a very poor and badly-conducted exhibition of
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Justice on the Sea.
The philosophic maxim, “Happy is the nation
which has no history,” is sadly in want of revision
in the nineteenth century. Happy rather is the
nation which writes its own history and has no
carping critics to tell how its “glory” is only
atrocious murder, and its so-called justice a
system of hideous brutality. The story of Euro-
pean justice as it is dealt out to offending islanders
in the Pacific has as yet been written only on one
side of the page. Hardly a month passes without
news of some burly ironclad having visited one or
more of the South Sea groups, and blown a dozen
defenceless villages and a few score of naked
savages mto atoms, in retaliation for a reported
murder or some other piece of wickedness, but
unhappily w-e only hear the white man’s version
of these tales of blood and cruelty, and the out-
rages by which he commenced the strife are buried
in oblivion. As a rule too, the British Govern-
ment, in common with many other “civilized”
administrations, boasts complacently of what the
steel-clad destroyers have accomplished, but in
the case of H.M.S. Diamond an exception has
been made. Her record was too atrocious even
for them to publish, and in the Commons, a week
ago, the First Lord of the Admiralty positively
refused to produce the report of her cruise. The
report which the islanders could give can easily
be imagined, but unhappily they are destitute of


all means of publishing their wrongs and suffer-
ings. In point of civilisation they are far behind
the ancient Aztecs, who used to sketch a wild-
eyed cat on the end of a brick, and could thereby
convey a whole emotion to the receiver of the
hard-baked manuscript; they are even mo
ignorant than the dusky tribes of Central Afric
who can record a solemn agreement by cuttin
down a tree, or by planting both feet in a tub o
flour, and who can spread valuable informatio
by splitting a dog down the back, and sending th
decaying dogument from village to village. Bu
if the tribes of the South Seas had made but 01
step in the march of progress—if they knew on!
the rudiments of the art of writing as they wer
known in Egypt six thousand years ago, the
would probably ere this have sent to all the Au
tralian capitals a dead fish with a cockroach tie
to its tail or some corresponding symbol whic
would have told a harrowing story of sufforin
and oppression. They are startled on some sun
mer morning by the arrival of a strange schooner
and are presently visited by a crowd of short fa
men who smoke long pipes, and growl out “ Mei
Gott! ”as they plod heavily about the shore
These pilgrims are hospitably entertained, an
when they leave they carry off the wives or sister
or sweethearts of half-a-dozen natives, and whei
the latter attempt to protest they are shrivellec
up by lightning from the tubes that the visitor
carry in their hands. A few weeks later anothe
party arrive who seem to be the very duplicate
of the first, and the islander, little versed ii
philology or oaths, fails to note that the latter say
“Goddam” in place of “Mein Gott,” and tha
one crew was commanded by a murdere
with a broken nose and the other by
ruffian with a bruised eye. The latter ar
rivals may not perhaps conduct themselve
as badly as their predecessors, but they seldon
fail to keep up the reputation the white man ha
accpiired for evil-doing, and the natives, with
their old wrongs to avenge, make a dinner of
them and get chronic indigestion as the result
of devouring wretches who are not fit either to be
eaten in this world or to be sent to the next.
Then probably 12 months elapse until a cruiser can
be spared to wipe off arrears of slaughter, anc
finally the armour-plated murderer as likely as
not goes to the wrong island and blows to pieces
half of an unoffending tribe who never even
heard of the original murder. These bloodthirsty
visitations are made on the reports of white men
only. No one enquires by what vile atrocities the
complainants first roused the natives to madness,
nor even takes the trouble to ascertain whether
the seamen did not murder each other in mutiny,
or as the result of a drunken brawl, and then hide
their crimes by laying the blame on the dusky
savages of the islands, and, though in many cases
the accusers are men whose oaths would hardly be
accepted in open court, their bare assertion is re-
garded as sufficient justification for the slaughter
of a hundred natives or as many more as can be
found. British justice in the South Seas is one of
the vilest among the many vile cruelties which
stain the name of this sin-cursed Empire, and it
would be well if philanthropists and others of that
ilk, when they have finished sympathising with
the victims of other nations’ outrages in the re-
mote spots of the earth, would spare a little
attention to the sufferings of this dying race in
the Pacific. All Britain rings with the tale when
a Jew is roasted whole to make a Russian holiday
or a Bulgarian is cut in two by a Turkish scimi-
tar, or an Irishman with one sort of flag raises a
yell of indignation because he is not allowed to
murder another Irishman with another sort of flag
or an obtrusive missionary is beheaded for pokin
his nose into the concerns of an African king,
and perhaps on the principle that every dog
has his day a voice will yet be raised in th
British Parliament to stop this long series o
horrors in the far Pacific.
A G-enerous Journal.
It is located at Market-street, Sydney, and th
generosity takes the form of “Encouragement t
Australian writers.” There is positively no de
ception : specie to the amount of £75 is to begivei
away in five prizes, and to avoid the suspicion o
favouritism the readers of the Journal are to b
the judges. All tales, save those which “are so
Weakly or defectively written as not to be worth
publication ” (even in the Journal !), will be
printed, and the fractions of £75 paid to the sue
cessful competitors after balloting has taken place
What the unsuccessful competitors will get is no ;
definitely, or even indefinitely, stated; we are
therefore unable to assert authoritatively whether
to use a common phrase, the smell of the prize
Will be their share, or whether the proprietors of
the paper will pay for the published “ copy ” with
tha,t princely munificence which has ever charac
terised our Market-street contemporary. If un-
successful competitors are to be paid, we ofFei
them our congratulations ; if on the contrary they
are not to receive anything, we —ah, well, we
congratulate the Town and Country Journal.
We felicitate the latter in any case ; any
effort to elevate the character of Australian
literature is worthy of all admiration, and perusal
of the News or Journal any week is sufficient to
prove what a huge task awaits the willing re-
former. Even in the announcement of the prize
competition, the sentence, “ Each tale must be
signed by a nom de plume,” occurs. We have
never seen a no. . i de plume signing anything—in
fact, we have hitherto believed the virtues of a
nom depfame to be of an exclusively passive nature,
and therefore regard the quoted sentence as a
very inferior sample of Australian or any other
sort of literature. It is a useful condition of the
competition which directs that the stories shall
deal with Australian subjects ; these latter should
not be difficult to discover, and we sincerely hope
that gratitude may inspire some gifted writer to
select for his theme, “A Generous Journal—News-
paper Enterprise in Sydney,” making special men-
tion of the price per column he expects to get in
case the MS. is published but does not receive a
prize.
“An Alien and a Pauper.”
You know how many and many a one has been
buried with that epitaph, how swagmen without
end, aliens and paupers from the time they set
foot on these hospitable Australian shores, have
died and been buried, or have rotted in the thick
scrub, or dessicated on the plains. Nothing re-
markable about that. “ D him, he might
have done it in another place !” says the' super.,
when told that there is a “stiff un” in the tra-
vellers’ hut or the horse-paddock. But this was a
black and he died at Narrabri, and, says the
Sydney Morning Herald of the 17th inst., “he
was buried by the blacks in that portion
of the cemetery devoted to aliens and
paupers.” No other place for him. Natural heir,
doubtless, to a goodly tract of the fat plain land
which rolls away westward from Narrabri, but
robbed of it all, houseless, homeless, debauched,
diseased, dead in his own land, and buried in
an alien’s and pauper’s grave. So dies out that
long-drawn wail of agony whose crescendo, could
it have reached, would have shocked and thrilled
the world. How easily from the alien’s and
pauper’s grave at Narrabri can we reach back,
stage by stage, through the chapter of horrors :
see that hunt in the Gulf country when all the
stations turned out to avenge a horrid crime, and
shot and stabbed through a three weeks’ butchery
without mercy or remorse; to that “bad” New
South Wales murder, when six convicts
“supposed to have been instigated by superior
persons,” surrounded on horseback a camp of
36 blacks and took them out and butchered them
one by one ; to gins ravished and boys stolen now
within this present decade throughout the north
and west; to the tales —or rather the facts —re-
corded by so eminent an authority as Doctor
West, of the “Tasmanian War”; of the stock-
men who used to persuade gins to climb trees and
then make targets of them, betting plugs of
tobacco as to which came down first; of old
Jimmy Scott, who, having shot the black who
stole his flour, strung his bleeding head around
the gin’s neck and drove her before him as a prize ;
of Harkison, who kept 16 women in a condition
of slavery on an island in the Straits “ whom he
used to flog regularly with military severity, and
some of whom he put to death ;” of fore-finger
joints used as “ bacca’’-stoppers ; of —shall we
turn, for relief’s sake, to the “ shocking cruelties,”
of Cortez and Pizarro, to tales of the Spanish
Main, being sickened with horror by any fair
recital of Australian truths—or bury the whole lot
in the alien’s and pauper’s grave, and try to believe
that, while there is a God who judges. He will
overlook our sins and enable us to forget them ?
+
Carington on the Stump.
He went to Albury last week, and attended only
by his aide-de-camp. It would appear also that
he had forgotten his bag, or otherwise the private
secretary had been very busy with lawn-tennis
and Mr. Dalley too sick to be bothered, for he
spoke for himself, and what did he say? Oh,
worshippers of the golden calf and the Deputy
Crownship, take up the full and ample record sup-
plied by the daily press and tell us what you
think of it. He was going into a new country, he
halted at Wagga, the old historic town, the
cradle of some of the most thrilling tragedy
and broadest comedy of Australian life ; he
went down to Albury, old Hercules Robin-
son’s federal city, and he spoke in both
places. Nay, he did not speak at Wagga, but said
he would get a reply written to their address when
he reached Sydney. At Albury he dined and
drank and was toasted, and so perforce replied.
And what did he say ? What evidence did he give
of thought, knowledge, appreciation, perception of
his surroundings? Why, if little Tommy Tucker
had not sung better for his supper than Lord
Carington talked for his dinner at Albury, he
would certainly have gone to bed hungry. And
we pay £7OOO a year to his lordship, and we got
men like old Sir Herky and Sir John Young at
the same price and heroes like old Arthur Phillip
and John Hunter at about one-third of it. They
of course were not so nice as “ Carry.” There is a
leaven about the existing arrangement which in
certain quarters is doing good and necessary
work. The tone of Sydney society needs elevat-
ing, all the “upper classes” require toning and tun-
ing to make them accord with the “ high life ” of
“ the Empire*” And “ Carry ” does that sort of
thing admirably ; but, oh ! all you workers of the
land—bricklayers sweating on the walls, farmers
toiling in the furrows, tankmakers, shearers,
tradesmen of the bush and the town —does it seem
a pleasant thing to you that £7OOO a year should
be taken from the taxes you pay to make Potts
and Darling Pointers nice ? His Excellency set-
ting himself to perform that task, however, is the
last man in the world to be envied. We don’t
envy him, but we don’t like paying him—at least
for that sort of work.
A Betrayed Religion.
“The Rev. Ward Beecher is preaching sermons at £lOO a
time. 1 ancy a clergyman asking that sum before consenting
to point the road to heaven, while the first ploughboy you
meet in a country lane will point the road to the nearest
church for nothing, and touch his hat into the bargain
English paper.
“‘Ah, what a horrible betrayal of Christ has
been the history of churches and of religious
sects!’ said Henry Ward Beecher the other day
in London. Churches and sects do not think so.
I hey, or rather their ministers, are always pro-
claiming what immense good they effect, and con-
stantly cadge for funds to carry on their devout
efforts. Christ was an ideal democrat. He
dressed in mean garments, and possessed an empty
purse. How like Him are our State-paid snobs,
with their outrageous incomes and emoluments,
their luxury and idleness, and their avowed
struggle to maintain all manners of abuses in-
jurious to the people !” The above is from Rey-
nolds Newspaper, and reminds us somehow or
other, that in the S. M. Herald of Saturday last
there appeared a sub-leader earnestly contending
that as it was desirable that the vacant Anglican
Bishopric of Bathurst, New South Wales, should be
filled by a good man,” it would be well to provide
a salary in excess of that enioyed by the late
Bishop, viz., £BOO per annum and quarters. Time
was when the best Christian clergymen were
those who worked for the least money. But we
have changed that now. The ponderous Sydney
organ of latter-day Pharisaism tells us that “a
bishop is not an ordinary clergyman,” and that it
is not possible for any gaitered representative of
the le bon sans culotte— the Carpenter’s Son, the
meek and lowly Nazarene, who knew not where
to lay His head —to “take his proper place in
society ” and “ properly educate his children ” on
£BOO a year. We agree with the Herald. So
long as the average Bishop continues to show that
he has in his breast no more of the true Christian
spirit of self-sacrifice than is possessed by
the average pagan member of Parliament—so long
as the magnates of the alleged Christian clergy of
England continue to turn up their aristocratic
noses at, say, the bishopric of Melbourne because
it is only worth £36 a week in hard cash—so long
shall we concur in the opinion that £BOO a year, or
£l6 weekly, is but a poor salary to offer to a
bishop. In these days, no bishop can be so holy
on £BOO a year as on £lOOO, and as the only recom-
mendation and use of a bishop is his presumed
piety, the more he has of it the better. And the
Scripture should be altered accordingly so as to
read : “A bishop shall be the husband of one wife
and the proprietor of, say, eight thousand a year
and perks.”
Pharisees and Larrikins.
“The Mount Rennie outrage”was the text of
several in Sydney churches on Sun-
day last. The newspapers have made much of this
subject, dilating upon the most meagre evidence
in a hyper-sensational way : it was only in accord
with usual custom that the clergy should follow in
the same line. Such hasty comment and con-
demnation was to be expected from evening news-
papers with a circulation (in Woolloomooloo and
bussex-street) ten thousand greater than any other
paper, or from the philo-Ohinese Daily Tei.e-
grapii, but justice and decency would seem to re-
quire that the pulpits should have reserved judg-
ment until some real facts were established. There
were, when these sermons were delivered, only the
unsworn statements of a passing mechanic, and
that of the girl herself, as evidence of the crime.
And the latter statement was inconsistent and
contradictory to a degree : a philanthropic young
man from Bathurst, a designing cab-driver, an
address m a questionable part of Sydney,
and a rendezvous at the rubbish-heap of
the city these were its chief features, certainly
suggestive of immorality, but not proof enough of
iegal crime. Whence, then, did these orators
obtain the knowledge which enabled them to call
the sternest punishment of the law upon these
untried men ? The men now in custody were
marked for sentence by these fervent clerics be-
fore their defence or the charge against them was
known, and if any of their future jurors were
among the congregations they were probably in-
fluenced to the certain disadvantage of the
prisoners. “Public Morality” cannot be main-
tained by such sins against justice as these. But,
taking the pulpit anathemas by themselves, it is
remarkable that one point is left untouched. It is
urged, that holiness alone can remove these “ out-
rages, but no mention is made of the fact that no
effort is made by the churches to reach the lowest
classes. Churches offer no inducement to men
who do not wear good coats, and who cannot sub-
scribe to church purposes. The typical cleric where-
ever situated is bon camarade to the rich and
aristocratic, and will loftily patronise the stray
workman who may come to his church, but of
active sympathy with the degraded ones there is
none shown by himself or his chosen “ set.” If
the Church has the elevating power which is
claimed for it, why is this elevating power never
tried where it is most needed ? The answer is
that the Church has grown too aristocratic:
respectability is the curse of modern religion. In
England, says a recent number of a home journal—
TflL^l 0I ’ S A t 0 T"\ au ’ as ? oc Ete with such men as Lord
St. Leonards, the Duke of Marlborough, the Karl of
Shrewsbury, the late Lords Aylesford and Lonsdale, as
also the present Lord Lonsdale, because they have some
nice little pickings in the shape of Church patronage at their
I j h ® latter owning 40 livings in the Church, whose
vin nAn lncludmg P arsona « es and Aebes, must be worth nearly
=£lo,ooo a year. More than 50,000 persons are dependent for
T h onsdnl°e mt r ent t£ f ™ elr £ piritual pastors upon the Earl of
ii d n! 0 T th Au hu r ch ever be the Church of the people
while thousands of the clergy are dependent upon great land-
owners for bread and promotion ?” 8
Marlborough, Shrewsbury, Aylesford, and
Lonsdale (a married man who was the other day
fined for kicking an actress’ husband out of his
the Earl’s “ private sitting-room,” where his lord-
ship was in quiet confab with the lady)
these are none of them such as a man “ with
the spirit of David ” —ahem ! —would converse
with, but the bishops spend their times in salaam-
ing to these noble ” debauchees, regardless
of the spiritual destiny of the less distin-
guished and socially lower herd. As a proof that
a dilution of the same sentiment animates some
of the Australian parsons, the Rev. W. G. Taylor,
a leading Wesleyan, to whose pulpit-slush the
Herald gives over a column, in the course of his
Waterloo sermon remarks :
“ Some of the noblest men in the land—3ome occupying the
highest positions in social life — led lives of impurity, ruinini
artless young creatures around them to such an extent as to
make one wonder that the judgment of God was not at once
sent forth to put an end to lives so vile.”
How noble men can lead such lives is a puzzle to
the ordinary mind, yet this man preaching on
behalf of a church which is nothing if not demo-
cratic, goes out of his way to point out the nobility
of askunk who commits crimes which it “ would be
unjust to the brute creation to call brutal.” And
the same cringing to respectability is shown by
the apostle of Wesleyanism in his statement that
“He himself dared not speak as he could speak of what he
had seen as he had walked about the streets of this city at
midnight engaged in rescue work, when he had had to gaze
around him as he turned the street corners, to see that he
was not observed speaking to the poor lost girls he was trying
to rescue and to win to morality and Godliness.”
What good does he expect to do by sneaking round
on his missionary work ? No man ever did much
as a reformer who looked round the corner to see
that no one was about to view his stealthy efforts
in a good cause. Is it that it is not respectable for
a clergyman to rescue Magdalenes, or is it that
the clergy are so little honoured and esteemed that
the object of their converse with abandonnees is
certain to be misconstrued ? Either alternative
proves that the clergy have lost that force and
boldness which made converts, and led to martyr-
dom. Holiness and fashion, piety and the conven-
tional usages of the world, have eaten the heart
out of Christianity, and the studied platitudes and
strictly conventional language of a Barry, as well
as the aristocracy-worship, and genuflexion to the
idol of social .respectability of the Rev. W. G.
Taylor, all prove that it is hopeless to expect
much in the way of social reformation from the in-
vertebrate, timid, wealth-worshipping skeleton
which now aspires to hold up the banner of the
Founder of the Faith.
Every man in the community who is the owner
of an ounce of sympathy must bestow at least a
portion of it upon the Sydney Daily Telegraph.
That paper got hold of what seemed to be a real
good thing in the shape of an “ outrage ” in Sydney
Domain, and gleefully invested the skeleton nar-
rative with the vestments of a surpassing indigna-
tion, and held up the manufactured figure as a
comprehensive atonement for all the vices already
proved to be inherent in the Chinese. But the
police court proceedings ripped the editorial
adornments from this figure and discovered to
public view a very different apparition. The
“poor innocent unsuspecting girl” who had
been the subject of so brutal an “outrage” was
shown to be not so much a victim after all—in
fact, the evidence seemed to hint that the “ vic-
tim ” was even partial to such occurrences, and
was not in any sense very much better than “ the
men who,” &c., &c. It really is very unpleasant
for the D.T. to be so deceived ; this seemed to be
a first class weapon to use in defence of the much-
cherished Chinaman, but proved to be a very in-
ferior club after all. For about the thousandth
time in its history the D. T. has been badly left,
therefore anyone who has the smallest portion of
spare sympathy ought certainly to let it go to that
very much edited and exceedingly excitable
journal.
Prince Alexander of Bulgaria is a patient
and long-suffering saint. Throughout his recent
troubles he was only once heard to use cuss ex-
pressions, and that was when he got back to his
kingdom and found Victoria’s telegram lying on
his desk. It contained only sympathy, and was
marked “ collect.” There was Is. 6d. to pay,
which only left the Prince 3d. to go on with.
The Germans are a contented people and
hate innovations. The Postmaster-General sent a
letter-box to the village of Drebkan, and the
people took the excrescence up by the roots and
sent it back, saying it was “ an undesirable and
totally superfluous piece of furniture.” If Dreb-
kan were in N.S.W. the Postmaster-General
might send an elephant there without the faintest
chance of a refusal. The gift would be accepted
without thanks, and the people would begin to
agitate and to send deputations to Sydney asking
for a whale as well.
CORRESPONDENCE
R. J. : In the case of Robert Bernard Dunn
the evidence was held to disprove the charge..,.
Urana : Liszt was not a priest. His title of “ Abbe ” was
an honorary one conferred by the P0pe...." Locomotive”:
You say the man who lacks expression is the essence of an
ass.’’ You lack expression...."Lincode: True enough,
but too indefinite for publication “Quiz”: May be all
facts as you say, but if so we prefer fiction....“ Genesis" :
We believe there are some Uibles of the description you de-
scribe, but we have not one such at this office....“ Harrie"
(Cudal): We are not aware of any punishment for burning
effigies, unless indeed under enactments against arson. We
don't know what “Marie Brizard ” means. It may be
coming actress, a new kind of improver, or another novel by
Isaiah Cohen, but we await its advent with resignation what
ever it may be—"X.”: Thanks; it will be useful “W
J. Davey (Laun., Tas.): Cannot get hold of the particulars de
sired. We only know that the company played in Brisbane...
U.-street : You have no claim for exemption from serving
on a coroner’s jury. Next time, you had better plead lunacy,
or else offer to present a small testimonial to the jury-raiser.
.... J.H.B. . More blessed to give than to receive ” such
contributions as yours...." Subscriber" (Taree): As far as
can be seen, the professional Hibernians of N. S. W. are not so
mean, spiteful, hypocritical, and intolerant as the Orange
chiefs, the majority of whom seem to have worked Protestant-
ism for all it is worth commercially and politically
J. Robinson : ” How the cleric managed to ring in a tirade
of abuse of The Bulletin in a sermon dealing with the
1 harisee and publican we do not know, but probably he
meant to show' what the spirit of self-righteousness really
was. He is not the first ecclesiastic who has set himself to
overturn The Bulletin, which, nevertheless, still lives and
flourishes like a blue-gum tree....“ J.H.": Send them on
with envelope for return if necessary...." C. H. Cazaly: ”
Your patriotism is simply immeasurable. So are the lines of
your poem. Try again “ Ambulator An ambitious
attempt, but weak in execution. Lack of strength and con-
sistency in details. So improbable a theme required the
most careful treatment... “ Lelex ” : If that is poetry give us
some prose “R. J.” ; The best N.S.W. industries we
know of are selling beef, selling rum, selling the S.M.
Herald, and selling The Bulletin “Pro Patria” ;
You don t see why we should go out of our way to rake up
all those old matters.” That is not it, you see ; you don’t
know anything about it. You don’t know now that we are
going to commemorate a time when women were marketable
commodities, and were publicly flogged at the cart-tail
through Sydney streets by order of the Governor, and when
men worked naked save for some wretched waist-rag—when
marriage was unknown, and universal bastardy was the
established order. You are prepared to believe a lot of lies;
we are masters of a few facts. Learn the history of the time,
and then if you really are “ Pro Patria ” give us a hand
to bury it.. „. “ Ben.” ; Hope it is the “ straight griffin.”....
Annie B. : That’s nothing. Thackeray says somewhere
that every good woman is a matchmaker “ J.II.M’C.” :
Many thanks “ J. Rose”: If the meekest curate alive
were suddenly grabbed in the street, divested of clerical
attire, hustled into a brickmaker’s shirt and trousers,
and run into the hospital between two policemen, he
would probably have been “identified” as one of ’em....
“James Marks”; Judging from what one reads in all
quarters the Trench army is now most efficient and very
numerous—“R.J."; Queen Victoria was utterly penniless
when she came to the throne...."T.M.”: 2min. 2sec. would
be areally good amateur half-mile... .“Chas. Fitzgerald”-
An interesting item “James Haigh”: Under the circum-
stances, it would be sheer waste of time to try Captain
Webber over again “Hjalmar Nissen”: Regret that we
cannot accept. Please send for it....“R. Jones”: We sup-
pose that women are fined heavily for drunkenness because
it is consideied that they have no right to trespass on the
privileges of the men. If a man wore a hat trimmed with a
pelican, two diamond birds, velvet ruching, and ten yards of
pink ribbon to match, he would most likely be fined heavily
too, or at least would deserve to be...." W. Longford”: You
say you believe your lines to be nearly perfect. Your modesty
libels your poetry—it is quite perfect. Perfect r0t....“ Bush-
man”: Thanks; will probably use “E. G. Jebb”: Extract
interesting..,.“Francis Westlake": You abuse, you don’t
argue. That a girl, no matter how bad, should be liable to
be assaulted in broad daylight by one or by a dozen ruffians,
is an infamy. But that it should be possible in the Nine-
teenth Century for a citizen to be flogged under circum-
stances such as those attendant on the case of Mildwater or
Anderson, is also an infamy. Whether an illegal outrage
such as the Mount Rennie case does less or more to brutalise
the community than the legal outrages referred to, carrying
as they did the seal of authority, is a question which we
leave you to consider for yourself “ Lowly”: Pedantic and
priggish as “Pikkax.”,...“R. Scott” (S. Yarra): You forget
that the Marcus Clarke vote was probably passed more out of
deference to Rosebery’s opinion than as a tribute to Clarke’s
genius.,— “J. Nathan”: Please call and obtain items....
B.B.” : Lord Carington has now, we believe, about Itaides-
de-scamp....“F.H.B.” (Orange): Thanks... .“Emily C.’’: We
accept the stipendiary magistrate’s decision as final espe-
cially as he said defendant “ left the court without a stain
on his character.” Too many men have been ruined by a
malicious, woman, assisted by a prurient-minded baby
’rotest”: Why, it’s only the other day that the old man,
having power to foreclose on a valuable security, ordered the
mortgagor to plank down £40,000 in gold at short notice.
Don t talk to us about the post-mortem “ charity ” of people
who in life take out their pound of flesh “J. W. Lansley”
(N.): Justice is more often defeated by the suppression of
lts , Publication in the papers. When the
police say that the publication of the evidence in the “Mount
Rennie Outrage case would defeat justice, they mean that
it would interfere with their plans. Police plans are some-
tunes made in the interests of justice. Sometimes they are
only made m the interests of a conviction In an^
“ a F e V'nMif re " S i n * C ,t rely i s ? rry for th,: evening papers *
F. Goldberg (Albury): In issues of August 15 and Novem-
ber 7 you will find articles dealing with Protection as also in
many other numbers. It is, of course, impossible for any
H? al an exposition ”of any such subject. “ /
Williams : We adhere to our statement that the Chinese
take £6OO-000 of solid capital from the colony annually
come<l gold taken by the Celes-
tials, then the balance of trade, gold shipped by Chinese
firms to pay for tea imported without corresponding evnort-
in return, and lastly gold privately carried. 'The total cannot
be accurately estimated, but we have reason to know tw
our figures are under the mark....“E. Thomson ”•
gather from the remarks of Mr. B. R. Wise at
j? e = Co “ s J<? ers >t undesirable that women should work S
factories. This may be a very chivalrous sentiment but it is
“ ot to b e shared by those women in NSW who
would wdlmgly attain honest independence by such means?
... Heathen”: Your “Ode to the Sydney DT” is worthv
of the subject. This is the most savage criticism we mn
make concerning the D.T. and the poem. “ k „i „
Enter your tale for the Down and Gumtree IRerary com’
petition. M hen it appears—it’s quite good enough for The
D. and G.—buy £a worth of coupons and give 200 votes fnr
yourself.,,.“ Raspail ”: We have no space to waste on the
of an “bandonne4. Write to the D T 1
R ookto , wn rLi W f U rea ,' i for uext week “ Tim
Butterfly (Barcoo): Thanks...." W. A. Abel (Brisbane^
You are a good live, well-meaning, healthy specimen nf the
Australian apologist for insensate brutality. P We propose at
an early date to do ourselves the honour of printing you? letted
just as it stands and commenting upon it in an article M F
“Walter”: The furniture men who charge you?wo shillings
for collecting an instalment, and sixpence for writing ycn/a
letter, cannot, we think, have a legal right to Xfees
unless under an agreement with you, or unless S S
prove that this is a known, definite, and reasonable custom
in their trade.... W.A.N., Hector, W Hill Gol i
J. Atkins, Ada M. J. C. Kew Wat Wimin’n« a «i,„ a ’
M.A.R., John Williams, Henry C„ Oscar? fe’
and many others : Letters and contributions duly received;"


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
It was a very well-known Sydney book-
maker who spotted a splendid thing in Ring-
master for the Metrop., and seeing such a lovely
chance of landing a little fortune, it was only m
accordance with his business reputation that he
should go to work very quietly and back that
horse for all that there was in the market. But
the owner of Ringmaster wished to have his share
of the plunder, and when he found that this was
not obtainable he calmly scratched the horse, and
now a very clever “bookie” is sadly wondering
how he came to be “ had ” for £lOOO.
* * *
A sensational event comes off this Satur-
day night at Foley’s Hall, Sydney: Lees, of Vic-
toria, and “ Black” Jackson, of Sydney, fight for
the pugilistic championship of Australia. The
betting is pretty level, each man being thought
invincible by his friends. On paper the affair
should be a foregone conclusion in Lees’ favour,
he having twice defeated Farnan, who as often
performed a similar office for Jackson; but still
in spite of past records we pin out faith to the
“ brunette,” who is unquestionably the cleverer
man of the twain, though he needs good seconds
to steady his pace.
•* * *
Long live Beach, and may he never keep
a pub. !
* * *
The principal winners at the late Hawkes-
bury race meeting were —Messrs. R. K. Maitland,
£352 ; J. Stockton, £268 ; A. F. Smart, £255 ; A.
E. Cornwell, £220 ; Hon. James White, £l6l ;
Hon. W. A. Long, £152 ;W. Gosper, £lOO. The
total amount paid away was £2106 10s., and the
meeting left the club £470 to the good.
* * *
Mr. Ironside tells us we were wrong in
stating that the score of the Parramatta Alfred
C. C. (508 runs) in a single innings is the largest
made by any club in the colonies ; as on April
23rd, ’7B, in King’s School v. Oaklands, the former
scored 532 runs in one innings—J. Hillas made
120, W. S. Brown 114, and E. Pell 105. The
highest total ever made anywhere in a single
inning 3 was 1238 by the Ulster Club in ’75 on the
Pigeon Ground, Pyrmont, Sydney.
* * *
Beach’s victory over Jacob Gaudaur in
their race for the world’s championship and £lOOO
is in every sense a popular one, for Beach has
always been as honest-as he-is game.—there is not
the shadow of a crooked transaction to darken his |
name. While rejoicing in the victory of our man,
sportsmen of Australia pay an enthusiastic tribute
to his gallant adversary, who seems to have rowed
perhaps the most brilliant, as it was the fastest,
race ever seen on old Father Thames. Both
pulled with the same dogged determination, and
neither yielded a jot to the hitter end in a contest,
the record whereof is 17sec. less than the wonder-
ful time, heretofore the fastest on record, made in
the Beach-Teemer race. On this occasion, Wil-
liam hadn’t time to set his cap at “Australian
ladies on the banks.” The latest is that Hanlan,
who accounts for his tardiness on the plea of ill-
ness, is on his way to England, and wants Beach
to row him on the Tyne. Should the champion
beat Ross on September 25, he will be well out of
England. We hope to see him return unbeaten,
and to row but one more race in Australia —viz.,
on the Parramatta against Gaudaur, who, as he is
many years younger than the Illawarra man,
must, so far as Beach is concerned, eventually be
the champion.
* * *
The Referee, after remarking that the
recent sculling match between Perkins and the
Australian Kemp was one of the grandest strug-
gles, one of the most cruel and doggedly-con-
tested races ever seen, goes on to say that though
Perkins stood the terrible tension the longer, he
was all wrong for days after his hardly-earned
victory. Yet Kemp, instead of giving himself a
rest, set to work next morning to reduce his
weight by heavy pedestrian exercise. The Re-
feree observes that if that was a fair sample of
the intelligent Australian’s method of helping
nature to recuperate, the sooner Beach took to
himself an English trainer the better.
* * *
Matterson’s easy defeat by Lee lias cer-
tainly been a surprise to us here, and makes us
think he must have been very stale. It is poor
work finding excuses for a beaten man, but after
the men he has defeated and the game race he
pulled with Teemer, we can hardly think he went
down on his merits. Matterson has been in train-
ing for a long time, and after pulling Perkins
twice and Ross and Teemer one on top of another,
must have come to the starting-point in anything
but good condition.
* * *
There was a big attendance at Foley’s last
Saturday night on the occasion of a benefit ten-
dered by Foley to his old antagonist, Abe Hicken.
After several pugilistic displays of varying quality,
Foley and Hicken Indulged in three rounds which
partook rather of the character of a skylarking
than of a boxing exhibition, and Hicken tendered
j his thanks far the substantial compliment ten-
dered him.
* * *
i The list of winning owners for last Aus-
■ tralian racing season shows Hon. James White
first, with £15,027 ; Mr. S. Miller, of Victoria,,
second, with £4606. Then follow Hon. W. A. Long,
i with £3543 ; Mr. M. Loughlin, £3436 ; and Mr.,
i Oxenham, with £3122,
* * *
Some miscellaneous items.—Power, while
paddling in a light skiff near Spectacle Island, last
I Sunday, was collided with by a clinker four, which
ran clean through his boat, practically cutting it
in half Edwards and Sons (Melbourne) took a
contract to build a gig in ten days for a Sydney
club The Sydney Yacht Clubs boast four steam
yachts, one schooner, 26 cutters, and two yawls.
Some tall scoring was done in the cricket
match, Lord Londesborough’s team versus the
Australian Eleven. The Britishers in the first
innings made 558. The Australian Eleven, all
going down for 231, they followed on, losing one
wicket for 192. The match resulted in a draw.
Mr. M'Quade will give £5O to the winner of
the Lees-Jackson Queensberry “soft-glove”
mafeh,; £l, will be. charged l for admission. Jack-
spp wih spale, 12st. 101 b., and Lees about 61b. less.
...... On clip th&t a young Victorian boxer is anxious
and willing to have a try at Lees —“ all he wants
is,a bicker. Balmain R.C. will bo represented
hy ap eight at N.S.W. Association regatta
Thp. Balmain Working Men’s R.C. is full of
vigour, and should be a grand nursery of profes-
sional oarsmen. The club-house is the best in
Sydney So far as can be gathered, Hanlan,
since he left Australia, has not sent a line to any
one of the many friends who stood to him so well
here The Sydney sailing boats are coming out
of quarters after their long winter sleep
George Fletcher intends to shake up the 16-footers
this year with “ Our Beys,” into which Don-
nelly has worked a bow the image of Mr. Hyam’s
old “ Ettie.” Foley, who hitherto has had a
most profitable monopoly of the boxing business
in Sydney, is no w to have opposition, Dooley and
Seymour having opened a capital little hall in
Engine-street, Haymarket Beach has offered
to row Hanlan on the Parramatta, laying £lOOO to
£BOO. Having been much shaken by the severity
of his struggle with Gaudaur, he advises his
friends to be cautious about backing him for his
race with Ross this Saturday Gaudaur and
Hanlan row in May Hutchens, the celebrated
English sprinter, is coming to Australia to run
Malone......Spofforth is going to marry an English
girl.
Sir Henry Parkes spitefully wants the
N.S.W. Speaker’s salary reduced from £l5OO to
£l2OO. This childish move of Sir Henry’s re-
minds one of the little boy who cried because he
wanted the moon.
William Matheson, a member of the
N.S.W. Soudan Contingent, was found drowned
in Wellington Harbour, N.Z., on September 6th.
He was a native of New Zealand and a well-
known athlete. He had written an account of
his experiences in the Soudan which appeared in
a Dunedin newspaper the morning of his death.
He is supposed to have fallen into the harbour
when trying to get into a boat alongside the wharf
on a dark night.
A blank statistical grain-form was sent
to an American farmer. It came back a few
days later with these woids in pencil: —
“ All we’ve got in this neighbourhood is
three widders, two teachers, a patch of
wheat, the pig-scurvy, too much rain, about 50
acres of ’taters, and an old fool who married a
cross-eyed gal because she owns 80 sheep and a
horse, which the same is me, and no more at
present.”
Mohammedanism has made a fair start in
Sydney, the festival of Eeduzzohah being cele-
brated with great pomp a few days ago. A large
number of devout Asiatics dressed themselves in
theatrical scenery and rolled up on the occasion, a
spotless bullock was killed, so were sundry goats,
and all went off successfully. Mohammedanism
promises to spread in N.S.W., some of the Moslem
customs—especially that of having four wives—
being already very popular.
An : atrocious attempt to kidnap a judge
was - made in Sydney last week,, a thief being in-
tercepted just as he was making his retreat carry-
ing: His Honor tied up in a brown-paper parcel.
The package, in fact, contained the scarlet and
ermine-robes which the majesty of the law encases
Himself in while on circuit, and but for the fact
that the- wig was overlooked, there would not
have- been enough judge left for an ordinary
Christian to swear by. Several of the N.S.W.
judges only consist of clothes.
Mr. Frank Rogers, counsel for Oarl von
Bieren, pleaded in mitigation of sentence that his
client had a good pedigree and a bad digestion—
which so touched Judge Innes that he only seat
up the patrician dyspeptic for 34 months without
hard labour. Mr. Carl von Bieren, before hi>• con-
viction, belonged to that numerous class of gentle-
men who don’t know whether to throw themselves
on the mercy of the Court, or enter a libel action
against the newspapers. It is no secret that he
fully intended to “go ” for several Sydney
journals had he been acquitted. Yen Bieren was
what was known as “ a good sort,” and he has
quite a crop of friends who assert, and with some
reason, that, fraudulentinsolvency and all, his moral
turpitude is not one whit greater than that of
several most respectable- individuals who have
contributed to his ruin.
Our song of sympathy with Ballarat in its
“ social purity ” infliction has stirred the hearts
of many men in many places besides the mining
city. Even a Melbourne parson has lifted up his
voice against the Ballarat “Inquisition.” So
liberal are this gentleman’s sentiments that they
deserve a line. “ The time may come when wo
shall be angels and archangels, and spend the
countless ages in playing upon golden harps. We
are not angels yet, but men and women living on
the earth, with certain passions, feelings, desires, ,
and aspirations.” There now ! The gulf which
separates Holy Church from Messrs. Tom Walker,
JossSymes, and Co., is graduallybecomingbridged.
It is refreshing to find a parson admitting the
existence of those “passions, feelings, and de-
sires ” which parsons so freely indulge. We have
hopes of the orthodox, even yet.
The Corporation of London propose to’
spend £30,000 or so in raising graven images off
four tough old murderers- Richard 1., who mas-
sacred 3000 defenceless prisoners ; Edward 1., who
slaughtered the Welsh and Scotch and wanted to
have his worthless carcase boiled after death and
his bones carried at the head of his army; and
Edward 111. and Henry V., who lied and plun-
dered and murdered in vain in the attempt to steal
the French crown, and at last departed in com-
pany with a lot of other brands all tarred and
dried and kerosened for that remarkable burning
that H. A. Long takes such an interest in. There
is something really cheerful about this way of
spending money, when thousands of people in the
self-same city are dying of hunger. How is it that
every “ corporation” is so blatant and swinish —
how is it that no gentleman ever becomes an al-
derman ?
The French Club of Sydney gave an
elegant farewell banquet on Saturday night last
to Le Comte de Louvieros, who leaves for France
by the Oceanien. The speeches made have caused
a terrible hullabaloo among the Jingoes. The
N.S.W. Chief Justice said in effect that he wel-
comed France as a neighbour, and didn’t grudge
her the New Hebrides; the N.S.W. Premier,
according to the reports, treasonably said that
“France was in the front of European civilisa-
tion, and we should cherish friendship with her” ;
Colonial Secretary Dibbs said that the only anti-
French agitators in N.S.W. were the ignorants
and the religious bigots; and Mr. Julian Salo-
mons, Q.C., supplied the climax of “sedition”
by talking “somewhat prematurely,” says the
D.T., about “the Australian Republic.” Sir
Patrick Jennings, the spineless, now alleges that
he didn’t utter the words attributed to him ; but
we are glad to notice that Sir James Martin, Mr.
Dibbs, and Mr. Salomons stand by the words
ascribed to them. Sir Patrick is invertebrate and
should keep out of such bad company as that of
Sir James and the Colonial Secretary.
“Beach has challenged aP. and O. steamer to race with him from London to Austral!
As the cable has been out of repair lately, we don’t know whether it is safe at present to lay 5 to 1
on Beach— the report may he only an imperfectly transmitted lie.
SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young men that go betting—go betting,
You are soft, it is easy to see :
Your wits you had better be whetting be
whetting ,
For the books are in league with the d——.
Sing, hey, for the books and the d—— 1
Ah, me ! with what cunning—what cunning,
You spotted the winner that day .
You were'left in the rear in the running—
the running,
With the books and the devil to pay.
Sing, hey, for young men that can pay 1
You play well at yourbilliards—your billiards,
The “sharp" quakes at your break and
your stroke ;
And yet, I dare say, on the steelyards—
the steelyards, ;
He’ll weigh heavy •when you are dead-broke.
Sing, hey, with your pot in his poke !
t
Young pnert that go drinking—go drinking-,
Whal is it you think you enjoy ?
Hebe, while you press her, is winking—is
winking
At the next inexperienced boy.
Sing hey, for the next drunken boy 1
Young men that are living— are living
With roses and youth both a-bloom,
If, perchance, o’er'lost brains you are griev-
ing—are grieving,
Go look in your pockets, there’s room
Sing, hey .since they're empty, there's room
Reply
“Yotwg men who are thinking—are thinking
That pleasures are apt to cost dear,
If"', from he'll in the future vou’re shrinking—
you're shrinking.
You’re living in misery here
Sing, hey, for the hell you're m here !


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“ The Mikarin” I
New Opera House—“Theffing of Iron " " ” »• 14
;; ::::
I>ARD Theateb “ It's Never too Labe ” ”
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels' ” ,V
Belmore Fauk—Ridgway’s Circus ” " Fl 5
Burwood—Lynch Family Bellringers ” ”
.iX-i/A'A man I and many yer-
&> -r -5E
2S‘«*xs&ss& irs? it's*?
'extent that Ins friends had to carry him quietly
Pat /’T ° n the back < and read
■ «e„ home’ toucher” 1 he ™ ® to »«
*
Mn?fl th a lUen in tlie P resent cast, Mr. Alfred
Maltby deserves the choicest of the eulogistic
; adjectives in the office vocabulary. His make ~0
was complete to the merest detail—even the pawn-
ticket,as we were told by a reporter for one of the
evening papers, was the real thing and renre
vab,o ’ aCCOr^? g t 0 the same eminent authority’
*£&£*!!£ Trs X? of t g , em,i ™
wp'kXX s[ d M mb " K s "™ este 't'”y the p™
Kia ° h OC “ iO X
®l C kS> nglymildkind - so " dld in fact Tat irs
Birketts query as to whether he had “ ever been
m Ireland ” entirely lost its point. The only part
of the performance which lacked interest was that
the first act when the captain and his host are
■ °f S ! n tbe Sidney Echo, and naturally enough
fails hxmentabiy in the attempt ; yet in spTte of
the dispiriting influence of this failure he hv
: S unno l u fc n C f" ,l °!' t 0 bllsiness ’ merits the continued
h- « P Q m f P atrons - Miss Hattie Brown as Betsv
worth VerT’ and W ° rks ifc for aII that it is
Tf mi ticrligiu'e is just what the part requires
It is always the petite maiden who ramps round
SsZT wa j nto r mr,nis »* oi S
wavs ?nd u an n ! ake ' S lifo uncn durable in other
He inf and lfc 18 always the prim and demure
up thoseTittffi 1 v 768 re f- ing 0,1 pivots ’ who works
conjugal felieu hlne n WhlC o ftre half the sum of
bo?2v ™ arCy Stanfield was the good
KocrtHcolT® VeiT mUch wrong, and to his
verdanev fv t and carefully-sustained
and useful foil "l as a refreshing contrast
55?“ r;° S' wh“ wS'reqiSJed
hngly n con S pLuous’. Shareof thG Pi ® Ce WaS not start '
“fa
stilTmkf ■ f deral Minstrels at Sydney Academy
Horace He 11 !^ 01167 “ tbeir artless Federal way 7
visSe aS m, W f- a PP° ar ed, and his polished
of a bluet f nightly from the stage like the glow
a black retriever in the howling desert Dnrinu-
his lyric jaw mi rtf preBc . nt . Programme he strike!
Wonm ;P h ( > the subject of “ Woman, Lovely
thing neV on thlTaen™ 06 kardly tell us any-
-8 won that well-worn subject, and
Woman, in her hours of ease,
, . uncertain, coy, and hard to squeeze,
well be ea pu Z zffid n t , ! S Jr! UP S ° ° ften thafc sbe may
African which 1 h £ nd a spot on fc he versatile
broomstick h “ S £ ot alrea,ly bit with a
chord and is wo a • ? eer tou ches a tender
the Raynors’received, and after this comes
enough to event tormance, which is amusing
omnibus horse t° f > a muc h-flogged
are not the gavert h sk ? tches which follow
are more th!!' ™! g ?' ve bave se en, but they
“Lucrezin r ll *! ed f em ed by the humble piety of
nnce. • Our sym!mC up the perform-
dispenser ~fJ , ' tby for tbls much-maligned lady-
though histo!ia Seni ? 1S Stdl on tlie increase, even
order an eaHvL doa f ert that she was wont to
ready oveZ-ffigi/// 101 ' 3,1 f ° r SIX and get the cor P se s
## # #
flowing at d Svd° f c morality is still
too Late to ‘ u?! ?°J al Stand ard, but “ Never
closer acQu-iim d d p es n °t improve much on
story of aVa lhe drama is a pathetic
and difficulties' i lth n ° ut a collar " r ho is in love
raise enough l vho goes out to Australia to
girl of his!hofce V^h 6l^ 1 !: ° f his marr ying the
soured by disaminim tbe brst act he is appm-ently
shed his brother- P s°^ mtments, for he endeavours to
only restrained f nose ln unholy- strife, and is
timely interfeLn' 01 " pl . ugging that proboscis by
George FielchwJ A , At this pei ' iod of his life
itself into a comm-ff tOCk f Seems t 0 bare resolved
the chair and /he ® 6 °, onehorse with a dog in
schemer with ! 1 / genius of the play, a
a greasy voice h-!^? 6 deceitful countenance and
The hero leaves for fh'e ? n these Pities,
a tottering rlieum \ tt' s n c K 010i u e s a m id the sobs of
hard-cursing Hebrew* 0 t ’ bl f sings of a
heart, and theS ! anguish of his sweet-
faced villain who m!! ! exultation of the large-
Ws absence In hS cxde°f m f ryhis best girl in
through the agenev nf |° rt f e ™ iles on him
100 miles, and I* ° f a fcble t who has walked
wed of English B lm? Shed - nigger whose
susn unde filed consists chiefly gf
(Limn. -A- sunrise on the dififfinnsrs is fv»A
“°crii?OTb S T- e - in he Wh ° le P e^°nnance,
a crimson orb shining down on five blue hush
position**!? a green solicitor who has sunk to the
position ot apprentice bootblack to a band of
out g£ bl d fh bUt i . S Vile horde is Presently knocked
of valour 6 Wh ° performs Prodigies
ssftjrs srsusssg
worm «oo s ,',‘ r r; “”>»«* to “eatS
fragLio’ t", 11 » b «ouslr a ml,,
rragment of road-metal that even a new
chum ot weak intellect, could hardly Te drived
gjre in Kr efl£ I”"* rcta ™ “»d wade in
USHSHfH
ssH-sssrsi:
may be passed without further comment!
** # #
Romeo and Juliet ” was performed with
ISS nVht OC bS' ItOTOI Standard
moral in tlie tragedy but th/v? ht “ e visible
of the" past S and C t ft fr ° m fche cavern!
sasSS-
awS*
rlio spread herself on the lilconv is » * 1 '
ss °r £ "“i
sFarsa 'dr#
red an aboriginal to sob over Mr Boothman
te hour of the nia-ht n„,a • , tiu a
as the best figure in the n^ Pler ’ aS Mercutio >
'lm Merton, as the NuJse a“d C Ho,, an<i MiSS
Ir-aKHMS
** * #
(Rlhert and Sullivan’s masterpiece, “ The
--ado, at Sydney Theatre Royal is still “up
> beautiful snore of EliraWh ’t » ’ . Pkc
- chamber from ceiling to floor ” hot •
hans thm it ’ songs are better sung,
r allThat, Ve the fc mis! n F I™P^ls3dp^^”'a^®d^^! 1 ™ P^Is3dp^^”' a^®d^^!
lour is so niarked'usTnVtt 011 . of Gi , lb crtian
n the sum of artistic success 'Gilbert's h*' erably
Asr, b rdr° z
author did desired
fjssz'irjttssi “ &
” in order fn hAir» , . toff about
the" sns"
in, but its triumph would kL™? * “
,be still more colossal iJi,’ -f , artlstlc
presented in itsTbSsLpS 8 WOrk
. # #
lhe Ring of Iron” at Sydney Onera
3 is announced as being now on for itS
3, and will be succeeded hZ lts lasfc
•sta„»T£*r„“u, d d r rm W H“T
*# # #
J “Ridgway Temple of Varieties” »
3 edifice in Paddv’s xec i les ) a
re Park, Sydney has started h’ . otherwise
“=ieS?m=~S=
t ne# ±lL v company is a
#* # #
Lynch Family of Bellringers having
once more got into marching order staH , l S
day next round the suburbs of Svdnev
have once or twice before proved a !. ch
ground for the company. ilapp * huntln g ,
wo“ 0 "T® 0 ™? U h I , t ' S „r in!!est “O wildest
a London audience. He produced it wilh’^fl’’ 'i°
a? I, we m Srier T fi“sTlhr‘" t
sporting iueMenS. I 'Dim wt
handling of turf or horsL nL/i 7 at , sea ln the
take counsel J “v MOIM to
■•Firing Scud.'i'S prcdSd” S 5 *“«>
hero was supposed to have an oum brother Xthe
mar^s 1 didn’t L usually \)a4° liters °of t 6 f d ! Ut
srtr £
Of plot in “ Flying Scud'’ wh ,Vh 7, g eccentricities
FwHsr
Jefferis would he r,,i “ lterest than the Rev-
sinners in the same boat „hh hi,T S”
dabbles with horse-racing and ‘ 1 odds ’’ !h? U m a
to a the!t n abf e “!; WMChiS perfectl y disgusting
## # #
Our own Verdi is not the sort of baritone
do rifled with. He called round at Melbourne
left instructions thlt^oth! 68 *' Alllson }, ad
from the theatrp Q ?°H nng was to bo removed
faithful servant thatch d - tl ? e stage doorkeeper—
and glared Verdi ’ 8 cbeat
Verdi procured the t^ mkli ng' of an eye
tleman with a black evlffi ° f a muscul ar gen-
chest and doorkeencr 4?’ and pi ' oceeded to hoist
summons a°rirJ™' 4 P oli ce-court
songster. Ouite % deciBlve victory for the
withouthis t couldn ’t sing
sits „„ it
rp , *# # #
hurled fromTlm fj° jec , fclles ai ' e now being
Our bet witching 8 ™ ol 4 h iu Melbourne,
secured for [L , lg f “ end -®°la has boen
divinity named V j llage ’ while a rival
Frank Clark at St If ls . doi “» the trick for
are odious where ladies «r° S HaU ' Comparisons
refrain from menH™f ,lre fl cotlce ™cd, so we shall
equalled ifheivftZ?* , that la is Btill nn-
hold of the danS r lm f of arL Her wrist-
the .catch-as-cafchma?grip 18 0 V B the°o?h tri f l T -
jectile. It is lp ,° ko other fair pro-
that has been S . uaderstood m Melbourne
«». ;• m ri b rd B SmWtt to ‘! hmmtc
maidens. Thus shn of the Japanese
social interest? become an object of much
rni * * * * #
day, at Z g hurried on, night and
mTIXoTL™ 1 ™' 1 * »» OctobTl
we have it that 1 '??? 83 dps of Mr. Joubert
broadest, deepest best Adexandra stage is the
nicest of any in ’the an . d alto gether
that remains Vm mbeS£?r Ph ? All
of equal merit, and the future of h ? la^ S
assured. The inmio-,,,. i , mc of the theatre is
Lads,” a corned vo l? 4 L °7 will be “Had
Mr. “ Mixed ” Crave? i? the h M Z oloila Pattern.
Lads (in a literary happy fa ther of these
and it is to be hoSd the? w ? hG r ° lafcionship, >
money for their “ old 4 ey dI earn Plenty of
is »«te to h„e a ffi
don’t like it, they cS Aad lf the Public
worth in the brand new glortes of the r ™° ney ’ s
and a velvet drop-curtaif o,
Imrnortal'winiam ‘“aC* 1“*? m »™ of the
the Bijou in the'shlj? ofv?° P tT Upafc
which comedy has brnbun <■ i As ou Hike It,”
5 S *£«
worst play of It,if„JM^oXi^T^We“omT
our criticism end there The i,4 W ® wdl let
and it behoves us to s,‘,eak gentl? ffTim'- d ° ad ’
sequence. “As You nt P rf” • ?[ ln m in con-
well-known author am t 1 is the work of a
pany both strong and nfuscuk^ 1 ’ 151^?* 1 f, a Collv
herculean actor, Professor Miller, JtS
*# # #
Frank Clark’s “ Silk Stockings ” commnv
has been carrying on at st n n , TT company
ior the last to™ ?*" l h Mclb ' l
on mastodon proportions a4i ?? d ? n ® here 18
nonneetnent is ISSSSJ “Jr "““S “It
“e reT„r( h TcrSt ri “ 1
ttether quite a happy family ‘'''A! . of ™on—alto-
programmes and sedueti™ postern Fmh'??*?
seems to be filling a lnmr fait J ,r> * rank Clark
After all, there a liW? Melbourne,
these enlightened 1 Zcp ituua,e in
SS§r“
their institute on Sundays. 10 t 0 open
m, , * # # #
rp. la good-hearted old warrior y n i„
at WelhngtS pan ° ra ™ a renown, has settl’ed down
Hotel, where he and of the Alb ion
are up to the elbows hi busSesfl? CCt ' half
flowing with fonmino- t- ® ss ’ with a bar over- .
hilariously ]Sgiin°4 mi ?f esn an ? ards aad a till
quakes and the o 1 ittrepero !4'VF r ° earth ‘
Ma„« and
mi • , # # # %
, 18 story comes by cablegram. A Ton
coatfand sevjrj^ 6 hi saccess ~ in a new
_ severai of his acquaintances ordered I
MoLc' " r h “l Mother
"fora co.S r tor °” e
answered the Tishirw n Wfys lie an actor?”
™p l .rtt l ;^r^T|su'» No ’ Bir/ '
0 "' e Bee - have
Emmett was at Fast In • Ne . W York : Jo °
naught but lemnnnrio a lrrriln gham, drinking
Loufse Pomezw C h-n 4 f 0 much ; and
Oswego, N. Y. 11 as Paying at
'Sfiffi™' 1 " «>» ext « nt <> f a
who is responsible lorYh *‘ |,jEas the gentleman
and the disruption of X° f?? nf * U of Gia <ts(.ono
he not lead the Grand am M ral . Party : for <*«
him a letter by writil »»
throughout the provinces i msfmn a • tbeatre ' goei * a
his Irish policy?” CO^ lall J endorsed
tendency to hang- honw w save or
and stretch them out of YIT sh« S 0,1 to bi 3 words,
Walter played fairly well h P ® B
measured business woo u-' ' ' * 'his long.,
should reform it altogether for r"? faU Y‘ He
some good acting stuff*wiin-’ * f< mcy ho has
composition.” Wllhin the coafl nes of his
## # #
villainy, iTwhiZhthe C ° mistont of
his own personality. ” Thm c t 0 bavo i°st
which the Age criticised Titheradge's KiS
music hall
lovers. She used to 7™ Pufc her iv in
songs every evening- Yen Y'? ° r tbree Pathetic
badly as any human being wellcoulTan^l^
her down. He did howl » wn ’ undertook to howl
but after the fifth intnr>- CCO j r - <ilng y witb vi &our,
rough-looking object Hvh^^ttf
kind of game d’ye call lthisT 'ri™ T J? at tbe
old cow a chance to rfn mi/y.* Ve P°°r
she’s a fraud ye can cuss her fcl i m \ and th en if
ain’t fair to shut up the YZY ° tf • b "t it
till she’s hed a show.” Them sbo ' cat 3 yawp
on the part of the lover after 11, . rts a d ® ad silenco
singer, bowimr YnYY * hls > and the foreign
clafmed, ‘‘Tafk “
find zare is at least mm Y J tP> w ? Phased to
ence.” Gentleman in dis audL
#* # #
haJbYn Gr “‘
and will cruise around to diffcrenflJt'nT’ Show '
towns during the summer. ...YYi 0 ' r.^ sbsb seaside
of this scheme is Mr. Bill Holland wh °? sinator
his hand at every nossihie *T olland ’ w ho has tried
A truly remaSle Zn isSf of / ntertai nment.
of Londoners. He has given bel °ved
Contests,” and even enaY ° n L , bc i lri barmaid
bull-flghts. The AgricultunYrTim t 0 accli matize
of these latter, but to toll t' ri , i il .. waa tbe scene
lacked savagery ’ <) w in ! Y uth >~ t be hghts sadly
and the deSiedSSftlon
were uncommonly tame Th th bulls ’ tbln & 8
London torreador wis , ln ' . be . career of tne
a. Sydney Lancer. * re risltJr tban that of
*# # #
««% jumbled
Australia at the same HmTS'MSori’h’, "??, ™
on evil days. Once she ew,w-r ni tOlI > has fallen
horrid word “fatness” a" Pap Y aildes to his—
worship T- nnwiefdy ” iaB°‘£ U JT ,m w ™' t
at Verdi Dion fl n Y f „ o \ Won t the y •' Look
Melbourne as “ advance ” U foV Yff’Y 8 back in
KOI into a BrasUian £“? vStl? 2”***
.id »^i S ‘n J.ondon "S
SSSShrlS'tuoj” "
libel-damages from nn t’ a " tboress ’ has got £250
.mod tiSSoS^t^So JgZZT rw-
to get £lO,OOO damages out o h h mea " 8
papers which printed n IpH-Y “ . Melbourne
Plagiarising ‘‘The f r- CUS “ g him of
Mr. Edmund Finn An 7 \r St ° Ty by
fiddler means to divorce Ms’wife 7 ’ & Melbourne
thJciowi edif y in g to see a Minister of
, A j' r ° wn standing outside his olhce in a fearful
SSawrafcvsrrS
KNIGHT ASTONS
F The London correspondent of the Sydney
D.T. does not seem to have enjoyed himself
thoroughly at a torpedo-boat trial the other day
Meve al ',oT„o'« ta.Sf' “™ doieg, ,
that we could wZ*™
knew this gifted correspondent his tTS? T 6
went knots at meal-times teeth onl^
The return ball by citizen*
Sydney to Mayor Young was as succes
fulm most points as the affair which
was given to acknowledge. Even in
dress was largely worn, but some of th
g ancy costumes were conspicuously han
Another millionaire, in public est
motion at least, Mr. Aithon” Hordern
i U -n . de P arted to the land of silence
His skill in business was not less than h;
success; he was head of the well tn
Urn, of Anthony Hordern and Yon, Td”
ney, but his ventures were hv nr.’ ' J
limited to this vast S ml *°ST
spicuous energy havim? most con
connection wifh the
railway There are many representative
iTSzz. who °° m mL
mn Tlle T - and c - Journal offers a
Union Club Bachelors lht
matter, we wonder ? Hasn’t \ if,.' m S v , tdo
invited ? asn t Alfred been
i n lu lmmens ely sensational weddino-
at Melbourne the other dav Th* •
are afloat; some to VL S ol l Srumours
bridegroom.elect had chantred if- effe ? fc that the
eleventh hour, and that Miss P mmd afc the
lover °of X^(f 8 ’
critical moment and mSLZtYeZI “ tho


Pepper And Salt
Mr. Cheong (whose name bewrayeth him)
has been telling the Melbourne people that there
is “no great moving cause or impulse for the
Chinese to emigrate.” The tom-tom immediate y.
Speaking of the recent livening up in the
drill of the N.S.W. Permanent Force, the Pro-
fessor of Classics on the staff of the Sydney
Nooze remarks “ Time was when the ultima
thule of a colonial soldier was deemed to be that
he should ‘ cut a figure’ on parade.” Ultima thule
is eood, and now we’d like to hear something
about the non compos mentis of the Professor
himself, or the ex nihilo nihil fit of the whole of
the Nooze’s brilliant Je ne sais quoi banditti.
When it conies to a matter of simplifying foreign
tongues so that they can be understood by even
the Bogan blacks, the Market-street Porsons take
the “ rekerkay ” bun from all comers. Au revoir,
Alfredo, mong bong camarade.
* * *
Yen Lung has gone hack to China. Yen
Lung hung himself at Ballarat in 1865, and for 21
vears he has been mouldering in the grave while
his spirit smoked a shadowy opium-pipe on the
banks of the Styx. He was dug up recently, how-
ever and put in a hag to he taken home. He had
to he hauled out of the tomb piece-meal, a Mongol
cook having attempted in vain to drag him to the
surface by his legs and only succeeded m pulling
him to fragments in the effort. When he was
safely packed up, his cousin Wee Too slung the
remains over his shoulder and wandered about for
half-an-hour breathing words of sweet affection to
the object ill the bag. There is no doubt some-
thing pathetic in the idea of communion with the
dead but the pathos wears off a little when the
scene is made up of a Chinaman embracing a
dusty rib and talking of love to a spine and a
batch of miscellaneous pagan bones.
* * *
At a Hawkesbury River fishing-camp the
campists went to a farmer’s house to buy some
water-melons. One of the party put down a fish-
ing-linc with a hook on which was some bait.
The farmer’s pig immediately incorporated this
with his anatomy, and then, after taking two or
three half-hitches of line round the legs of some
of the audience, sought refuge in the sty, whence
nothing could dislodge him. ‘ Look here, mate,
said the farmer, “ you’ve spoiled a bloomm fine
nin with your cussed carelessness leavm yer lme
about. That pig’s worth two notes, and you can
just hand ’em over and take the pig, and
clear out of this.” “ Well,” stammered the ap-
palled fishist, “ I don’t think he’s quite worth
that, hut I’ll tell you what—you gimme five hob
and keep the fishing-line.”
* * *
At Lithgow (N.S.W.), the doctrines of
peace and goodwill are being sawn asunder by
the malevolent influences of grog. In that beer-
sodden region liquors have hitherto been sold at
six-pence each, but the local “ Grand United Three-
■nennv Drinks Association” demand a reduction to
threepence, while on the other hand the Publi-
cans’ Protection Union ” are bent on maintaining
the ancient figure. The Grand United Drunks are
carrying on the campaign vigorously by boycotting
the local Bungs, and though they present a sinister,
drought-stricken appearance, and are footsore
through trudging over the length and breadth of
me lind in search of cheap alcohol, they
Sow no signs of giving in. The struggle
recalls some events which happened in Far
Northern Queensland many years ago On
the Hodgkinson, in those days, a furious
competition raged between sixpenny murder at
Palcdonia camp and the delirium, insanity and
snakes vended in Thornborough at a shilling. The
latter beverage found scope for slaughter chiefly
through the presence in the leading Thornborough
shanty of one Jimmy Hunter, a weazened shrunken
dwarf who in the adjacent dance-room extracted
heavenly melody from the bow and the inside of
the cat—until the stalwart Julia who ran the
most prominent Caledonia bar, resolved to kidnap
Se musical atom and end the strife at one fell
blow Accordingly a hand of miners raided Thorn-
borough one dark night, and the only local fiddler
found himself seized by a burly ghoul who rammed
him into a sack fitted with holes, from which his
head and arms were allowed to protrude, slung
him over a pack-horse, and carried him off m
triumph. Which deed of abduction utterly
crushed Thornborough in one act, and soon a
Ser could drive a spike into his coflm for six-
pence in any part of the Hodgkinson.
* * *
In a weltering and sinful Queensland town
there is a man who so far perverts the custom of
the place as to get drunk occasionally and start
it praying as a steady job, and usually in the
middle of the main street. When he relapses
into sobriety he is every hit as sinful as the worst
af his neighbours, hut with each renewal of the
rum-soaking process, piety once again possesses
his soul of which it has a freehold as long as the
spree lasts. He is a perfect puzzle to the local
theologians, and they cannot determine whether
it is best that he should keep in a perpetual state
of drunk for tihe good of his soul, or be a teetotaller
and a blasphemer, with a big chance of coming to
grief in the hereafter. They would probably agree
to keep him on a chronic drunk were it not that
they would have to stand the racket, for he has
not a cent, ; and they possibly would keep lam
always sober if it were not for his rooted aversion
to that virtuous state. He is a puzzle however
you look at him, and was obviously created for
the benefit of Y.M.C.A. debating societies.
* * *
The Argus has fairly grasped the difficulty
in connection with that there bishopiic. It
would be a sound investment,” says the chosen
organ of property, “on the part of the wealthier
members of the Church of England if they were
to raise the endowment to a more satisfactory
figure. Considering how much the Church may
owe [true, indeed !] to the bishop for its success,
the least thing they can do is to provide such a
sum of money that the very best men will feel
themselves amply rewarded for accepting a colo-
nial position.” Let us have a rhyme. Not a high-
class pome, but one in keeping with the subject
“ Their Royal Highnesses, the Duke and
Duchess of Connaught left England to-day on
their return to India.” —Reuter’s telegram.
A young German, named Adolph Boldt,
suicided in Melbourne last week. It was the old,
old story of love and gunpowder. Adolph came
out to Australia to build a nest for his pretty little
birdie, who had promised to fly from the Vater-
land and join him. Luck was against Adolph,
and his girl got wind of the fact that the con-
struction of her nest was proceeding but slowly.
She accordingly “broke off” with Adolph, and
that misguided young man inserted a gun-barrel
in his mouth and pulled the trigger with his big
toe :
Lines to the Fickle One.
That fatal shot has o’er the seas
Your own and Adolph’s knell borne,
For, though you live at home in ease,
Your Boldt is shot in Melbourne.
* * *
At Napier, N.Z., there is an obese elderly
party who weeps for his wife and refuses to be
comforted. A few months ago his son, aged 19,
was spooning round with his best girl when the
old man came across them and fell in love with
the lady at first sight. As the result, he straight-
way offered to bestow his horny hand where his
cowhide heart was already gone, and a marriage
was the result. But in a very short while the wife
regretted her bargain, and the son has now eloped
with his ready-made mother, and the head of
the family is plunged into gloomy despair.
Whether he will take refuge in the divorce-court
or not remains to be seen, but a case with a son as
co-respondent would possess all the charm of sub-
lime novelty.
* * *
The N.S.W. Government’s intention to
celebrate, as the “ Centenary ” of the Australian
nation, the hundredth anniversary of the day on
which the first convicts landed at Botany Bay, is
already derided by more than one Queensland
paper. Sir Patrick Jennings’ absurd proposal re-
calls a good story. When the 77th Regiment
landed in Sydney after the Crimea, an applieation
was made to the colonel for the loan of his band
for “Anniversary Day.” “Humph!” growled
the grim old officer, “Anniversary Day—the
Thieves’ Jubilee ! 1 suppose we must do it. Tell
the bandmaster to get ready the Rogues’ March
with variations.” Should the N.S.W. Govern-
ment be so pig-headed as to persist in keeping-
up ” this date of shame, what a snigger will go
round among the “ distinguished company when,
at the bogus “Centennial” banquet the chair-
man, whoever he may be, stands up to propose
“The Day we Celebrate! ”
* * *
A Jewish literary and debating society has
just been floated in Melbourne. The worthy presi-
dent announces that the object of this society is
“to teach Jewish youth something about the
Jewish race, as well as a horse race.” ’Tis a noble
end, but it will never be arrived at. The young
Ikes, and Loos, and Moshers won’t interest them-
selves in any race unless they can open a book
on it.
TOO GOOD TO RE TRUE.
Ijike a message from heaven, that is wafted
To earth in an angelic song,
L’o soothe the sad souls of us mortals,
So seem thy glad tidings, O ! Cheong.
By a horrible dread we’ve been haunted.
For months and for weeks and for days—
But now, light of heart and undaunted,
Rejoicing we go on our ways.
By the sons of that country whose monarch
Is akin to the Moon and the Sun,
This country—oh, can we believe it,
Good Chinkee ?—will not be o’errun ;
They have really no cause that is moving
To fly from the land of their birth,
And to journey afar, ever proving
The wondrous extent of their worth.
Good Cheong—gentle, yellow-cheeked charmer,
Like music thy words to our ear :
Like the splash of the spring in the desert,
Revealing that water is near ;
And we ask thee, with proud exultation,
In speech that is pithy and plain,
To collect the stray sheep of thy nation
And lead "’em to China again.
They are useful, and patient, and smiling ;
Their morals are all that is nice ;
They haven’t a word in their language^
Which could be translated as “ vice ;
They are cleanly and sweet in their quarters,
But yet do we fervently pray,
For the sake of our sisters and daughters,
That an impulse will lake 'em away.
There is a certain bishopric
Which now a-begging goes,
For when ’tis offered to a priest
That priest turns up his nose ;
It is not that the work is much,
The life too hard or rough—
One fault alone that billet has —
The screw is not enough.
Rent free and eighteen hundred pounds,
That is the yearly pay—
A paltry wage with which to cheer
A bishop on his way ;
For that he’s asked to leave his home
And pitch his tent abroad —
Scarce £4O a week to fight
The battle of the Loard !
Another thou, (or even more)
At least they ought to add,
And then the bishop’s berth would be—
Well, not so very bad ;
The lesson of the past is plain
(We learned it in a trice) —
The men who sell the Bread of Life
Are putting up their price.
A WORD WITH BATON TEUTER
Have they laid us down a cable
Where the raging waters hiss,
That you, Baron, might he able
To send telegrams like this ?
We ask now, what the deuce is
It to us where goes Connaught ?
Ah, how base, how base the uses
To which cables may be brought!
If to puerile tastes you’d pander,
We would rather have, by far,
Some more “skite ” by Alexander,
Or some bosh about the Czar ;
Though our interest in such is
Very feeble, we confess,
In this blooming Duke and Duchess-
Well, our interest is less.
Baron, hear our prayer pathetic :
Let these greasy items slide,
For they act as an emetic
On an honest man’s inside ;
But stay ! You might (for this is
What might happen, don’t you know)
Wire if Connaught and his missus
Make a trip to Jericho.
POLITICAL
POINTS
7 Ah English Tory journal triumphantly re-
works that Imperial Federation is “ now in the
air.” That is so, and it will always stay there.
Were we Dr. Ross, M.L.A., we should he
proud of having been burnt in effigy—by the
rullians who, while doing it, gave cheors lor
Coonan.
The French voters are now completely in
a minority in Alsace-Lorraino. At the late elec-
tions no member of the French Protest Party was
returned.
The subscription-list opened with a view
to enabling Mr. Ninian Melville to square his
creditors and retain his seat in Parliament has not
been very successful.
“Missions to the Heathen” simply mean
the opening of new markets at the point of the
bayonet. “ For every Christian wo have made m
India,” says Canon Farrar, “we have created a
hundred drunkards.”
Says the Globe of Mayor Young “ A
far more acceptable and intelligent purpose lies
behind his festivities than is usual in these
junketings, and he will not fail of public appre-
ciation accordingly.” We don’t wonder what this
means.
In the Indo- Colonial Exhibition is the
inevitable gilded pillar representing the bulk of
gold raised in Victoria to date. A London paper
suggests that at next Exhibition the colonies
should send a pillar-effigy representing in gold
their debts.
At Condobolin the other day Lawyer
Coonan, M.P., said “ My mind is clear, and I
still have a higher tribunal to appear before than
the N.S.W. Supreme Court, viz., my conscience.
We are glad at least to hear that there is one
lawyer who has a conscience.
Mr. J. P. Abbott takes The Bulletin
view of the bogus Centennial. He says that he for
one is not disposed to ask the world to meet m
January 1888 for the purpose of commemorating
the shame which environs the foundation of the
convict colony of Botany Bay.
“ No longer do we bow down to Pope or
Czar—no longer do the nations recognise the
divine right of certain families to rule and rob
them ” quotes the Macleay Argus. We wot of
one nation that recognises the divine right of cer-
tain families to rule and rob it.
“ Mr. Alexander Woods has been appointed
Canadian Agent-General to Australasia.” The
appointment is said to have been made for the ad-
vancement of the trade interests of the Dominion m
these colonies. The news is welcome. Sydney is
just pining for want of some more consuls, and
things.
J. B. Neild, M.P., says that if the N.S.W.
Ministry wore not -so completely ruled by some of
their supporters, public business would be less
delayed. Similarly if Mr. Neild were to get a
Providential visitation of lockjaw, there would
be a chance for Parliament to go ahead with
public business.
Who is this Mr. Wilshire who is touring
N.S.W. to work up the centenary celebration
and who or what pays him for his trouble ? At
Wagga he tried to convince people that they
yearned for an exhibition, but after hearing the
oratory of Messrs. Halloran and Kerr, the meet-
ing decided otherwise by 19 votes to 4.
At last we know it. The Great Jawbone
has condescended to explain that he spoke for nine
hours in the N.S,W Assembly, “ because if he had
not done so, nine other members would have
spoken for one hour each, which ‘ would have
been all the same.’” Jawbone, you are wrong!
Some of the nine might have managed to say
something.
We ask that N.S.W. constituency why it
should continue to return a gagged „ member.
Whenever the “honorable gentleman” rises to
move any resolution which isn’t perfectly in accord
with the views of a certain political magnate op-
posite, the latter whispers: “If you don’t with-
draw that motion Til produce that letter. It s all
about a girl.
Mr. Quin, of the Sydney Sacred Heart
Debating Club, thinks it a sorry outlook for the
colony when such men as his co-debaters, Messrs.
A. E. Wiley and Crick, aspire to wear the mantles
of Wentworth, Cowper, Donaldson, and Martin.
We are anxiously waiting to know whether Mr.
Quin is ready to immolate himself on the altar of
his country.
In the Washington House of Representa-
tives last month during debate, Member Laird
called Member Cobb a liar. Subsequently, in the
lobby, Cobb retorted with an oath that Laird was
a perjurer: thereupon Laird hit out and drew blood.
Premier Jennings should challenge Cobb and
Laird to come over and fight Clarke and Lyne on
the “ Day we were Lagged.”
N.Z. has at last got far ahead of N.S.W.
in the matter of railway muddlement. A gentle-
man bearing the Sanscrit name of Smith sent three
logs by rail a distance of 25 miles, and when he
called to pay the freight, the Pooh-Bah who
greases the engines in that region demanded £l4
carriage and £l5 demurrage. The timber was
worth about £9, so Mr. Smith let the Government
keep it, and it is rumoured they mean to saw it
up into Premiers.
Kiama Reporter asserts that one line on
the Berry estate, at Nowra, N.S.W., measures
two miles 26 chains more than the lepgth stated
in the description of the grant. If this be true, a
whole legion of selectors may eventually succeed
in obtaining freeholds there, for areas in excess of
that for which grant has been made, since the
N.S.W. Land Act of 1884, still belong to the Crown
no matter how long they may have been in posses-
sion of grantees or their successors.
Touching that Presbyterian spec,
New Hebrides, it is gratifying to learn that “the
mission land is held with properly-certified
title deeds.” So says the irrepressible Mr. Paton,
and we accept his statement in good faith. A
legal-minded missionary engrossed the agreement
on the fly-leaf of a bible, and then a chieftain
dipped a piece of stick in the rum-bottle and
led his mark. But it is feared that a French
oral has purchased the remainder of this
able territory for a quart of absinthe,
o Australian Contingent shall ever smoke
lounge and curse on the walls of Khartoum.
“rebels’’have wiped out Gordon’s city ; the
ly goat now stamps on the Pasha’s throne,
the remote African cow sits in solitary state
he halls which that hero trod before he was
Lded by treacherous spears across the shining
r (pathos). There is nothing left to fight for
the Upper Nile, and only the shadow of past
y, some bones, and a bell-top hat with the
vn stove in remain to unfold the tale.
lr. Slattery’s motion, in the N.S.W.
emhly, that N.S.W. and other colonies and de-
dencies should subsidise England as a testi-
ly of loyalty, &c., is still unmoved, and will
bably continue to be so until the Day of Judg-
it. It was dated first for June 8, but has been
tponed by half-a-doxen stages to October 1, on
ich date it will be further postponed. The
y Tom could not stand the ridicule involved in
ceeding with it, although it is good for a lot of
los from those who are “ loyal ” to the verge of
>cy.
Mr. Ross, of Camperdown, publishes a
nphlet to show what Freetrade has done for
land. At the Union in 1801 it was agreed that
i Irish protective tariff should be abolished in
years. In 1821 the country had a population
li 800,000 ; in 1841, after 20 years of protection,
s had increased to 8,175,000 ; while 20 years of
eetrade brought the total down to 5,798,000 in
51, and these were starving. In the old days
■land had some of the finest manufactures in the
irld. To-day she has nothing but potatoes,
namite, disaffection, misery, and ruin.
The Queanbeyan Age suggests that, should
e Charles Dilke visit N.S.W., an attempt should
once be made to induce him to settle in th 6
lony and he should be offered the Premiership,
very justly observes that a much worse man
an he would be of incalculable benefit to this
ffering land, and his scarcity of morals cannot
i much harm to a crowd of legislators who have
>ne at all, so that “ until ruined by association”
j would be an unmixed blessing. Moreover, he
as good a man as ever he was; the trouble
lly starts when he gets into other people’s
mses.
The “ ex-M.L.A.” who is summing up the
Lembers of the N.S.W. Parliament in the E.
ews says that Mr. F. J. Gibbes, M.L.A.,
figinally owed his seat for Newtown to his dili-
ence as a municipal councillor. “He made the
mnicipal officials loathe the very sight of him.
[e was as instant in demanding the removal of a
ead cat from a gutter as in seeing that,” &c., &c.
y e don’t know whether this is true of Mr. Gibbes.
!ut, anyhow, it is a good figure of speech. The
verage aldermanic, secret society M.P. simply
ets into the Assembly because he picks up mors
ead cats than anybody else. ,
The following are samples of the ques-
ions used in the catechism published by th«
People’s League in England, a body that intends
o abolish the House of Lords“ What are men
nade peers for ?—For various reasons. Name
;ome of them ? —For winning battles, for serving
heir party in the House of Commons, for being
fid and no longer of any use to it, for being
voublesome to their colleagues, for being behind
he times, and for being political nuisances that
jannot be got rid of in any other way. Are great
men of science ever made peers?—Never. How
many clergymen are appointed to their livings by
peers ?—Nearly 5000.” We needn’t ask after this,
why men are made C.M.G.’s.
What has the N. S. W. Freetrade Association
to say about the following advt. from the London
Standard: —
“CHEAP LABOUR, CHEAP LABOUR.—To Manu-
V facturers requiring, the advertiser can offer »
French Military Prison in the North of France, where IUU
men are employed. The remuneration to be paid as
wages is If. per man per day. Open to offers to
treat for the whole or a portion of the above for one or
more years. Various kinds of work can be undertaken,
as mat-making, basket-making, brush-making, boot-
making, helmet-making, and saddlery work. Apply by
letter to A.N., care of Messrs. Beal, Son, and Chartres,
20, Regent-street, Waterloo-place, London, S.W.”
Suppose some N.S.W. capitalist bought en gros
the labour of the New Caledonian convict prisons,
would Messrs. Pulsford and Co. allow the pro-
ducts to come in untaxed ?
Long years of Government extravagance
have taught the N.Z. people how to get revenue
out of most things—even other people’s misfor-
tunes. Bankruptcy is a fine art in the Britain of
the South, and, after a good many attempts, the
Government have learned how to make it pay.
Last year there were 1870 bankrupts in the
colony, and the fees paid into the Treasury under
the new Act came to £18,526. The Government
paid for managing and winding up the estates
£9917, and, of course, pocketed the odd £8609.
The sum wasn’t much, but it was on the right
side of the ledger, and it was no doubt comfort
ing. Meanwhile the creditors got on an average
three shillings and a farthing in the pound. Let
us hope they were comforted too.
When Judge Docker compared the N.S.W.
justice to a machine he came pretty near the
mark hut for the sake of accuracy he should have
explained that he is a hybrid between a harrow
and a steam-roller. One of these gentlemen with
his steam-roller side uppermost heard a case up
North a few days ago, a widow being charged
with neglecting to send her hoy to school, and in
consideration of the fact that she was almost
penniless he let her off with an aggregate damage
of 16s. She had only 11s. in the world, and
begged with tears to be allowed till evening to
raise the balance, but the official beak only glared
and refused. Ultimately a gentleman in court
squared the difference, and the solemn jaw of Aus-
tralian justice relaxed once more into a smile.
This country is governed too much.
At a certain Queensland port the officials
have an ingenious way of reckoning tidewaiters
pay. These waiters are engaged at 10s. 6d. per
diem, and fees and overtime at fixed rates are
payable in addition. But the higher officials
work it thus : Suppose a man has worked 20 da,ys,
and has earned £4 10s. overtime besides, the
latter amount is deducted from the £lO 10s.
otherwise earned, a voucher for Ilf days at IUS.
6d signed, and the sum, £6, paid over with the
£4 10s. payable for extras, thus making the total
equal to the amount due, less overtime and fees.
I This has to be read carefully. Queensland finance
is not to be easily comprehended. If the waiters
should earn more overtime than pay, it is sup-
posed they would have to denote the i surplus to
Government. It’s nice to be a tidewaiter at that
port.
“ j wonder,” says an English writer,
“what effect the reading of paragraphs descrip-
tive of “marriages in high life’’has upon th
mind of the daughters of the labouring man
They must surely conjure up strange fancies as to
the amount of money expended in the purchase of
dresses, with their gaudy accompaniments, anam


the costly preparation for the marriage festival.
Further, they must think it a strange world
where a farthing to millions is of as much value
as a five-pound note to the favoured few. One
would expect that young girls, with their tenden-
cies towards freedom, would be red-hot Demo
crate. It is very remarkable, though, that their
political tastes in England lie almost exclusively
Torywise. The teaching of the State-paid parsons,
impressing the holiness of unwavering obedience
to a criminal social system and to our “ pastors
and masters ” accounts, in some measure, for this
state of criminal degradation.”
Sir Henry Parkes, be it said to his eternal
credit, voted the other night for the Abolition of
Flogging Bill. Premier Jennings, who, on his
public utterances, is pledged to help in abolish-
ing flogging, did not vote on the occasion. Here
is the division-list, which every citizen who would
see the last traces of the brutal convict regime
swept away from N.S.W. should carefully paste
up
Abolitionists. —Bowman, A.; Dawson, H.; Ferguson, D
A.; Fletcher, J.; Garvan, J. P.; Hammond, M. J.; Hassall,
T. H.; M Culloch, A. H.; Melville, N.; O’Sullivan, 15. W
Parkes, Sir Henry; Roberts, 0. J.; Sawyers, W. B S 0 •
Slattery, T. M.; Stephen, Harold; Stokes, A.; Toohey, J. M
Tellers: Moore, S. W.; Targett, W. S.
Non-Abolitionists —Abigail, F. ; Barbour, R.; Bull, N
G,; Burdekin, S.; Burns, J. F.; Cass, G. E.; Clarke, H •
Clarke, W.; CHlins, 0.; Copeland, H.; Creer, J.; Davies J •
Dibbs, G. R.; Fergusson, W. J.; Foster, W. J.; Garrard, J :
Hawthorne, J. S.; Hayes, J.; Heydon, L. F.; Hungerford,
T.; Ives, I. E.; Kethel, A.; Kidd, J.; Lee, C. A.: Lloyd, Hon.
G. A.; Lyne, W. J.; Renwick, Dr. A.; Stephen, S. A.; Suttor,
F. B.; Tarrant, H. J.; Teeoe, W.; Thompson, R. W.; Trickett,
W. J.; Vaughn, R. M.; Want, J. H., Wilkinson, Dr. W. C.;
Young, J. H. Tellers : Humphrey, F. T. ; Smith, S.
England, the home of Free-trade and the
Bible “ Hundreds of men are standing about
the streets all day long with nothing to do, yet
bravely and patiently bearing their bitter trials.
Hundreds of little children, emaciated and naked,
save for a few dirty rags, hang about on the door-
steps with gaunt, famished faces and hungry eyes,
too weak, too starved to play. My friend, in the
course of conversation, was informed by one old
fellow that he had had no work for two years, and
was getting used to being without food a'l day.
The worst time, he said, was last Winter, when he
had nothing for five days but an apple and some
chestnuts. There are in Middlesbrough at the
present time 2000 men out of work, and as there
is only one main street the sight of all this misery
congested into it is appalling. There is very little
crime, in spite of the distress. The workhouse is
full, the money in the hands of the trades’ union
nearly exhausted, and as there is little chance of
matters righting themselves in Middlesbrough,
owing to the falling off in the iron trade, the out-
look for these ‘unemployed’ is not a pleasant
one.” This, in a country where the bishops have
from £3OOO to £60,000 a year, is to be expected.
One of these individuals lately died and left to his
family £470,000 ! wrung from the misery of thou-
sands who “have nothing for five days but an
apple and some chestnuts.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rabbi Davis, of Sydney, has a £lOOO a year
stipend.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne coroner, has helc
12,000 inquests.
Lord Carington says he “is sick almostuntc
death of Mayoral addresses.”
Sir Charles Dilke is a bald-headed man.
He is also a “ prominent Methodist.”
“ What’s in a name ?” In Sydney lives
one Lindsay Gordon, He is a pawnbroker.
Mr. W. S. Targett, now M.L.A. for Lith-
gow, will, it is said, be made a police magistrate
shortly.
It has just transpired that three members
of the glorious Soudan Contingent were gaol-
floggers.
“ Lord ” Londonderry, the new Irish
Viceroy, inherits the blood and name of “ Cut-
throat Castlereagh. ”
The latest about Henry of Battenberg is
that he has been seen pensively gazing into the
window of a baby-linen emporium.
The Anglican bishopric of Melbourne is
worth only £lBOO a year. Hence no high-toned
exponent of the Gospel will accept it.
At Albury Agricultural Show Lord Caring-
ton made himself agreeable to every beast he saw.
His Excellency can’t help it—it’s his good nature.
On dit that a big Sydney limited liability
firm is about to treat the city to a colossal insol-
vency. One of the directors says so, and he ought
to know.
The still unpaid-for and now historic bust
of the red-haired Sir Salmon Wilson stood for
months at Melbourne University in a common
gin-case!
It is said that the story of the petitioner in
the big Victorian divorce-case Weeding v. Dr.
Rose, M.P., is, as told by himself, “ wildly im-
probable.”
Douglas B. W. Sladen writes all his poems
on an empty stomach. From such of them as we
have read we knew his verse came from some
thing empty, but we thought it was only his head.
“The righteous of Shepperton, ” says ai
English paper, “are sorely exercised in their
minds by Sir Charles and Lady Dilke attending
Divine worship, and the worthy vicar is at his
wits’ end.
Thus the editress of the Sunny Comer
(N.S. V.) Silver Press :—“ A short time ago our
comp, forgot there was such a thing as a paper.
He was interested more in selling his clothes for
more drink.”
It seems that Mrs. J. C. Stewart, now
reigning at Melbourne Town Hall, is the first
\ ictorian-born Mayoress of the city. The average
Mayoress, you see, runs a bit older than the
colony itself.
Captain John M‘Lean, the fast steam-
ing A.b.N. skipper, is dead at last. He was
a good man and true, and for more than a
quarter of a century he had voyaged on the Aus-
tralian coast.
Henniker Heaton is sticking to his Anglo-
Australian penny-postage scheme. He will suc-
ceed within two years, and within seven years he
will have succeeded in a vast assortment of other
schemes, and will have become at least a baronet.
The late Ameer of Bokhara believed in
godliness and clean shirts. In the days of his
glory he had fifty washerwomen and seven chap-
lains, from which it may be presumed that he
wanted a fresh “ dicky” seven times as often as a
sermon.
So Arthur Adair, alleged unsuccessful
swindler, has been sent to Europe to stand his
trial i it will be a severe one, but not worse than
that of the Darling and Potts Point “quality” who
saw in him only a scion of a noble house and
threw their daughters at him.
A magnificent personage who the other
day “ filed his shovel ” for a saintly figure was
overtaken by about £35,000 of bad luck in N.Z.
some years ago. On that occasion he called his
creditors together, and said : “ Before we pro-
ceed to deal with this unfortunate matter, gentle-
men, let us pray.” Perhaps he meant prey.
After devotions he made ’em a formal offer of
half-a-crown in the £.
How fleeting is fame ! Not three years
have elapsed since Ilosebery was the idol of the
Australian hour, and already he is forgotten. We
read that in transferring the license of the Earl of
Rosebery Hotel, Melbourne, the court granted
permission “ to change the name of the house to
Clarke’s Hotel.” Heigho! In another decade,
probably, there won’t be a single Carington Arms
left in New South Wales.
J he Victorian Assembly has, we are glad
to see, decided, by 30 votes to 28, to grant £lOOO
to the widow and children of the late Marcus
Clarke, author of “His Natural Life.” Poor
Marcus was at no time of his life a good business
man. A few minutes after his marriage he left
his bride in the charge of her father (the late John
Dunn, comedian) and went in search of lodgings
for himself and his pretty little wife.
James Junior, who sent a love-letter to
Her Gracious, &c., at Windsor, and then called
for a plain answer, yes or no, has been sent to a
lunatic asylum. This should be a warning to
Burdett—
James Junior would his monarch wed,
He wished to soothe her sadness :
Proof positive, the doctors said,
That Jim was shaky in his head —
To love the Queen is madness.
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, the well-known bar-
Irister, returns to Sydney from Europe at the end
of this month. Mr. Pilcher is famous among the
members of the legal profession for never never hav-
ing in his life accepted a brief to which he could not
give his undivided attention. One Sydney bar-
rister has been known to hold briefs (or rather to
hold money for those briefs) in four cases proceed-
ing in four different courts on the same morning.
A tale of Kimberley. Price, Government
resident, has a Chinese cook. The other day that
dingy Asiatic was at work by the wayside on a
leg of mutton for the great man’s dinner, when a
big bearded digger, whoso aspect told of ldwt, to
the square-mile, came in sight and stopped to
gaze at the frizzling hindquarter. Then he calm] r
seized the meat, and turning to the astoundei
Hung Fat, said, “ John, you tell your master I’v
taken this. He can get another ; /can’t.”
The present Duke of Cambridge ought,
witjt good luck, to draw his £12,000 a year, a
Commander-in-Chief of the British Forces, fo
another 20 years. His mother has just come up
smiling to her 89th birthday. Tho Duke, wo
guess, will “ like a soldier fall ” on a comfortabl
spring-mattress at the green old age of a hundred
or thereabouts. And, so far as the enemy’s bul-
lets are concerned, there will be nothing to pre
vent that other royal warrior, Connaught, from
living for ever.
The Victorian Government is at last fairly
quit of the Kelly gang trouble. They have granted
£lOO compensation to Mrs. Jones for the loss o
her son and daughter in the “ siege of Glenrowan.’
The young people were held as prisoners by the
redoubtable Ned, and were unfortunate enough
to get in the way of some police bullets. Mrs.
Jones has been a long while getting her compensa-
tion. Possibly the Government held out on the off
chance that death would remove her ere a settle-
ment was arrived at.
Father Manuel de Viliga is a party who is
about to enjoy rather a lively time. Manuel lately
let Bin. of daylight into his bishop with his little
stiletto, and now he is sentenced by the Madrid
authorities to have his vestments torn from him
by two bishops and two priests. A bishop will
next scrape his shaven poll with a knife, and then
sand-paper it till it shines like a monster door-
knob. This will remove all traces of consecration.
Then they’ll strangle Manuel with a clothes-line
and he can finish his fight with the bishop in the
hereafter.
Mr. Thomas Clapp, a witness for the de-
fendant at the Von Bieren trial, deposed that Mr.
Carl Hiram Clinton Walbridge, &c., Von Bieren,
was closely related to the Von Bierens and Van
Burens, of New York, who were two branches of
one family, and held a high social position in New
York. Witness had seen prisoner’s name in the
Von Bierens’ family Bible, and often heard in-
quiries after him after he left New York.” Now
“Von Bieren ” is a German name, white the Van
Burens are a Knickerbocker family. This, how-
ever, is a queer world.
The estate of the late Mr. Thomas Walker
is given at a million and a half. The uninitiated
may, however, be surprised to learn that this
valuation is only an approximate one, arrived at
on the basis of a kind of running account kept by
the old man wherein all his property was set
forth at cost price. For instance, his Bank of
N.S.W. shares would be at £25, and his Collins-
street (Melbourne) property is down at what it
cost 16 years ago. Even the stamp-affidavit,
which usually fibs somewhat, will show a bigger
total by something like another half-million of
money.
“ Through some informality in the pur-
chase of Mr. F. Morgan, junior’s, share in the
Mount Morgan mine by Messrs. Hall and D’Arcy
some years ago, it is rumoured that those gentle-
men have had to pay the original owner £lO,OOO
to set things straight on his recent coming of age.”
Thus the Daily Northern Argus last week.
1 his little “informality,” it would appear, was
the fact that young Morgan, being a minor, was
unable to legally sign the necessary papers at the
time of selling his interest, and at his majority
put the price of a cool “ ten thou ” on his auto-
graph.
The series of death-warrants, extending
from 7th April, 1808, to Bth December, 1832, be-
longing to Sanson, the notorious headsman of the
Revolution, has just been acquired by the City of
Paris. The collection was bound up in 19 volumes,
and Sanson has prefixed to each volume a sum-
mary of the contents. During 25 years Sanson
executed 7143 capital sentences, being an average
of over 300 executions in each year. During the 25
years he only twice ascended the scaffold without a
fatal result —one of the occasions was in 1815,
when Count Lavalette escaped through the hero-
ism of his wife.
Frank Weston has been telling a melting
story of his financial misfortunes in the Melbourne
courts. But the law has a hard, hard heart, and
poor Frank has failed, up to the present, to obtain
the dispensation, or release, or something, which
would enable him to face his most truculent
creditors with serenity. “ Wizard oil,” it seems,
is almost a thing of the past. The manufacture
abiuptiy terminateti a, yeiir ago. Yet there was
a t me when a little extra expenditure on printer’s
ink would have established Frank Weston on a
rvfvi e _J n \Qht have been a Holloway or a
cockle ! He is an insolvent. Alas !
That wicked paper, the Pall Mall, won’t
let poor Sir Samuel Wilson alone. It keeps talk-
mg about the time when he was plain Samuel,
and when his friends hailed him as “ Sam,” or
amply yolted I say, you! ” and it also says that
when he arrived in London he found himself an
obscurity until he procured a great personal ad-
vertisement by buying the retreat of Burke and
Beaconsfield, and got himself Barnumised by all
the newspapers, on the strength of these ready-
made ancestors. “He has hoisted himself before
W, but is still dangling. ” Then the writer
adds that he plays the host on an extensive scale
and endeavours to feed himself into vogue,” an
mi worthy suggestion which would seem to imply
that he hopes to carve his baronetcy out of a
aunch of vension or to find a peerage floating in
he soup. And after all Sir Samuel’s hospitality,
the Gazette does not even give him credit for
being sociable : it merely says, “he is as gregari-
ous as his own sheep.” Such is fame !
A certain great warrior while at Port
Moresby, New Guinea, was invited by Skipper
Mackenzie, of the Thursday Island steamer, to
dine on board one day at 1 o’clock. The skipper,
however, went ashore and forgot all about his in-
vitation, and was discovered by the great warrior
(who had got tired of waiting on the beach for the
boat) at 1.30, putting away a square meal at
Goldie’s store. Exclaimed Mackenzie (a perfeat
little bear): “Oh, by Jove, I really forgot all
about you! But, never mind, old man, come
along and feed here.” The hero then stood upon
his dignity and would not be pacified ; so at last
little Mackenzie said : “ Look here, my son, if you
don t like it, you can go to •, and if you don’t
care to do that, you can take it out of me. I’ll fight
you with fists, swords, gatlingguns, scissors, or any-
thing you like.” “Well,” said the warrior, “I
don’t know whether you are joking or in oarnest;
if you are joking, all I can say is that it’s in ex-
tremely bad taste ; but (rising slowly and frown-
ing severely) if you—are—in earnest—but, there
(sitting down again) I don’t think you are in
oarnest I” And that was all!
The Keferee
There is a 12-stone amateur in Goulburn
who is very anxious indeed to box Mr. George
Seale. He says he cannot see how a 10-stone man
can stand against a man two stone heavier if the
latter keeps cool and “ counters” properly. But
then he forgets that Mr. Seale’s life has been one
weary round of wiping the floor with 12-stone
amateurs who “ couldn’t see,” &c.
* * *
Referee suspects that funk is at the bottom
of the Australian Eleven’s many defeats, and re-
marks that the series of checks they have met
with will ‘ ‘ have the effect of preventing another
Australasian expedition to the Old Country for a
good while. Once in every two years is rather too
often.” The Referee obviously doesn’t know the
Australian Eleven. They don’t mind meeting
checks so long as they meet cheques.
* * *
We had a private conversation with the
undertaker’s horse just before he started for the
N.S.W. Derby. Said he: “I don’t like blue
ribbon ; I like crape. lam afraid my master will
never be a success on the turf. Under it —down,
down six feet —is his game.”
* * *
Mr. F. G. Moule, speaking at a meeting
of the Melbourne Cricket Club, ascribed the Aus-
tralian Eleven’s reverses to over-banqueting. The
insinuation is ungenerous and absurd. Two of
the most signal defeats sustained by the present
team were in “ All England ” matches, and it is a
dead certainty that with their personal reputation
at stake they came fit enough up to the scratch.
We should fancy that over-anxiety was what they
suffered from most.
* * *
Mr. Maitland, the owner of Meteor, told
“ Nemo,” of the Herald, that he “ hadn’t six-
pence on the horse.” All the while, however, the
facetious Mr. Maitland was quietly “ filling up ”
Rowley. The horse started heavily backed by his
“ crowd.”
* * *
According to London gossip, the “Austra-
lian Abroad ” has been having his little flutter, on
the turf. We are told that “ a young Victorian
millionaire” landed a grand coup over the Eclipse
Stakes. He took £3OOO to £2OOO about the winner
and £l5OO to £5OO about the second horse getting
a place. The chronicler of this transaction inno-
cently assumes that “therefore the young gentle-
man went home richer by £4500 than when he
started.” It doesn’t at all follow. Possibly the
youthful “ millionaire” dropped a bit over the
other events of the day and forgot to publish the
particulars. But anyhow, taking three to two in
thousands is rather like licking honey off thorns,
and if many of our distinguished representatives
have been going for these grand coups the British
bookmaker must be waxing fat on colonial gold.
By the way, it seems that every Australian in
England (not excepting George Collins Levey and
the Vagabond) is accepted as a millionaire. In
I the same confiding style, we accept on trust the
distinguished pedigrees of all new chums who wear
eye-glasses and tight pants.
* *
A Times correspondent points out that in
the Surrey v. Australia match there was a curio-
sity, new in first-class cricket: two of the Surrey
men beat the Australians in one innings off their
own bats by 38 runs. Australia in the first innings
scored 185 ; in the second, 107. In the one Surrey
innings, Maurice Read scored 186 ; Abel, 144.
* * *
There is very little encouragement for the
guileless stranger to dabble with coursing events
in Victoria. The Hawthorn Puppy Stakes, run at
Moonee Valley, seems to have been a masterpiece
of crookedness. Considering that this was only
an eight-dog stake, the amount of “ arrange-
ment ” it inspired was nothing less than pheno-
menal. Four dogs and four men have already
been disqualified over the job, all bets are declared
off, and more explanations are demanded by the
stewards. The canines probably sinned in ignor-
ance. They didn’t know that they were running
under assumed names, and passing themselves off
as puppies ”at a mature age. But they were
Yes, the dog is a faithful animal and the friend
of man, but as a medium of speculation he is
rather less trustworthy than a horse or a srold
mine. s
* * #
Knifton and Smith are matched to fight for
the English championship.
* * *
Attewell, who was rather off-colour during
the Shaw-Shrewsbury Australian tour, performed
a big bowling feat last month. Playing for Not>
tingham against Sussex, Attewell took nine wickets
for 23 runs.
* * *
Shrewsbury’s penchant for stopping balls
with his legs, when he can do so with safety has
provoked a mild protest from a London pkper
The practice is not pretty, but it is a question
whether Shrewsbury’s stand at the wicket is not
preferable to that of W. G. Grace or Tommy
Horan neither of whom leaves anything but pads
to bowl at. Against the “champion,” in particular,
appeals for leg before” are quite as frequent as
m the case of Shrewsbury, and they are more fre-
| quently allowed.
* * *
The wholesale fining and “suspending”
of jockeys, to which we have become accustomed
of late, is a turf development calling for more than
passing notice from the Press. Sixteen jockeys
rode in the Hawkesbury Handicap, and 14 of them
were fined for disobedience at the post. On paper
it would seem that the average Australian jockey
revels in insubordination and general cussedness.
But, as a matter or fact, he is better behaved and
more respectful than his upstart English brother
ifc ’ that in Ell S lan <h with a large
eld of horses at the post for an important handi-
2 ap > happens that 14 of the jockeys are
The* 1 nM dlsobedlGace ” 1 The answer is apparent,
The old country starter-rightly or wrongly-
allows the boys a good deal more latitude than
they get here. In a general way, it takes
longer to send off a big field of horses at
Newmarket than it does at Randwick or Fleming-
ton, but the breaks-away are borne with more
hnim. 11111 ]?! by the boss -” He may swear a bit,
but he seldom goes beyond bad language. If he
does, his wrath falls upon the jockeys who are
feasf anxious to get away. In Australia things
are the other way round, and it frequently hap-
pens that the starters fall foul of the tryers to the
secret amusement of their confreres, who are
really at the bottom of the trouble, inasmuch m
they are not particular about getting off at all
In a race like the Hawkesbury Handicap, where
we charitably presume that everybody is trvino-
hard, the “ disobedience ” is almost™fve“a?Tp®
patently. From a starter’s point of vfew^ny-
*
According to several of the accounts
cabled demi-god Beach has good reason to
devoutly return thanks for his narrow victor?
o\er Gaudaur, whom he only just managed to
beat in what seems to have been a sort of Tquatto
death-agony. We congratulate Beach’s friends
on his hard-won victory, and hope that William
will carry out his intention of returning to \ “
tralia. In view of the exciting Sto the
fastest race recorded on the Tharno* n . 8
that the Gaudaur Party Tnew well’ whit toe?
were about when they put forward their man to
lower the colouns of our William, who it would
almost be fair to say has, if the cabled'versions If
the affair be substantially true, only won because


Sketches A.J.C. Derby.


PLAIN BILL: “WELL, YES—I DID PILE IT ON RATHER THICK IN THAT GREAT
SPEECH I MADE IN PRAISE OF BISMARCK, A YEAR AGO. BUT I NEVER
DREAMT THAT MY ORATION WOULD BRING A LOT OF YOU FELLOWS OVER
HERE OFFERING- TO WORK FOR THREE BOB A DAY.”
THE LONG LOST BROTHER
According to the vicious construction placed by the Jingo Press upon the speeches
of the N.S.W. Premier and Chief Justice at the French Club banquet.
“ Mister, have you any
small ‘ bulldogs ’ for a
. penny ( ” 1
Not a bad idea for a young lady to take a few lessons in
Itoxing of her brother Bill (if she has such a thing). t
Some one suggests the formation of a
Vigilance Committee for the protection of females,
would be a new field of usefulness for the clergy.
Here
. S&y* a Philosopher: “ WOman's best protection next to virtue
is ugliness.” A maiden lady who lately heard the saying re-
solved to leave off being beautiful very suddenly indeed
How very provoking Yonder
is a young man staring at me in
the most, unmistakable manner, and
I can’t find the pocket where I
keep my revolver. Anyhow he is
rather far off to hit, and I don’t
care to waste a shot.
The D.T.’s female “Constant Reader” writes to that paper suggesting that young girls be allowed to carry revolvers to protect themselves against “ being stared at,” &c.
Apropos of this we suggest a few “ safeguards” of our own —no charge.


Sociely
A most delightful evening was, we are told,
spent recently by the youEg ladies of Ilurlstone
Training College, Sydney. They gave a fancy-
dress ball, at which only ladies were present. One
half of the fair creatures were attired as soldiers,
sailors, mashers, and as miscellaneous examples of
the tailor-made animal who is so very superior in
feminine eyes when he wears anything in the shape
of a uniform ; while the other half appeared in the
ordinary garb of woman. We’d much like to have
been there. And so, too, we dare say, would a
large number of the bald-headed school-inspectors.
* * *
The mock-solemnity and vulgar pomp
which are so dear to the undertaker —and to his
clients —are slowly dying. On the occasion of the
funeral of the late Mr. Shepherd Smith, general
manager of the Bank of N.S.W., the church and
altar were decorated with white flowers, and there
was no outward sign of mourning in the edifice.
The funeral was totally destitute of dismal
pageantry.
* * *
The next of kin of the late Mr. Thomas
Walker, of Concord, Sydney, are much exercised
in mind as to the matrimonial intentions of Miss
Edith Campbell Walker. Should that lady die
without leaving children the next of kin afore-
said will be entitled to £500,000.
* * *
The correspondence-column of the Sydney
D.T. now seems completely in the hands of that
milk-and-water zealot, “E. J. H. Knapp,” nervous
old maids who want to carry revolvers, and the
exponents of prigdom and slobber generally.
Amongst a number of hysterical suggestions lately
made in that “ valuable journal” is Mr. Charles
Moore’s proposal for the formation of a kind of
private vigilance committee —Mr. Moore doesn’t
say whether it is to be on the lines of the saintly
Adelaide organisation of that character —for the
purpose of “protecting women.” We have a dim
and shadowy remembrance of a Sydney police-
court case in which a Mr. Charles Moore figured
as having objected to an affectionate husband put-
ting his arm around his (the affectionate hus-
band’s) own wife’s waist while sitting on a seat in
the Botanic Gardens. There is such a thing in
this world as too much Moorality.
* * *
At a Sydney restaurant. Gentle-voiced
woman relating anecdotes of native barbarity:
“She ran away with somebody. Her husband
caught her and cut her feet so that she should not
run away again, but he did it as soon as he caught
her, and so he had to carry her back ! (Sweetly)
Wasn’t he stupid ! Of course he ought not to
have cut her feet till after he had got her home !”
Sympathising listener : “To be sure ! He should
have waited.” We commend this pleasing story
to those philanthropists who object to sundering
what God hath joined together.
* * *
The Waverley people, lacking funds to pro-
perly maintain their glorious park, have long been
compelled to let part of the ground to Chinese
gardeners, whose presence would spoil even Para-
dise itself. It has now been determined to get rid
of the uniesthetic Confucian. Funds for park-
maintenance are to be raised by a flower-fair, to
be opened as it is hoped by Lord and Lady
Carington on the 16th October. Fancy costumes
worn by the stall-holding banditti are relied upon
to add to the beauty of the scene.
* * *
A great deal of attention is now given in
Sydney to “invitation-cards.” We have not for-
gotten the huge plank issued by Mayor Young.
Not to be far behind, the return ball committee
has sent the Mayor a perfect hoarding representing
a view of his residence, the exhibition that he (?)
built, hops (a pun in colour, we fancy), and many
other fixings. The Mayor has accepted it.
* * *
The engagement is announced of Mr. M.
Maclardy and Miss Forster, daughter of the late
William Forster, M.L.A. The marriage will take
place shortly.
* * *
Rear-Admiral Tryon has issued cards of
invitation for an “ At Home ” at Admiralty House
on the 22nd inst., at 3 p.m.
* * *
Last week, during drill on board H.M.S.
Nelson in Sydney Harbour, Mr. Tilly, a midship-
man, met with a terrible accident. He was in
the maintop when the truck fell, breaking in his
forehead and almost crushing out one eye. His
life was for a time despaired of, but we are glad to
hear that he is improving. He seems fated, as some
time ago another middie shot him through the
nose “ in play.”
* * *
It is said that Mr. Sturges, A.D.C. to
H.E. the Governor of Victoria, is shortly to be
married to Miss Rhoda Grice, daughter of the
late Mr. Grice, of Grice, Sumner and Co.. Mel-
bourne.
* * *
The following choice item comes from the
Sydney D.T. : —“At Lymdale, Potts’ Point, on
Wednesday evening, the 15th inst., Mrs. Gullett
afforded a small circle of .friends an opportunity
of hearing a recitation by Professor Parker, which
was deservedly appreciated by those who had the
privilege of being present.” Ahem! It’s so nice
to know what’s going on in the “ hupper succles.”
* * *
One of the surgeons of H.M.S. Nelson is
to marry a young lady of Hay, N.S.W.
* * *
The wedding of Mr. Cecil Bloxsome, of
Ranger’s Valley, near Glen Innes, with Miss
Fenwick, of Orrandumbey, took place at Walcha,
New England, last week. The Misses Denne
(Sydney) and the sisters of the bride acted as
bridesmaids.
* * *
We are afraid that “ Pendragon ” (Mr.
Henry Sampson) will get himself disliked in Aus-
tralian sassiety. In his latest letter to the
Referee he courteously remarks : —“ Unless my
experiences are altogether at fault, two colonial
ladies can give the proverbial pig under a gate,
for noise, several pounds and an easy beating.”
He further says—and this will particularly distress
Toorak and Darling Point :—“ These colonies
ought to be very loyal, if one is to judge by the
names given them, not at the time of their dis-
covery, but comparatively recently, and now
borne so proudly. King George’s Sound is old as
a title, but Albany is of late date, and means the
prince of the blood who died not so very long ago.
Then there are Adelaide, and Victoria, and a
whole host of big and little and middle-sized and
important and inferior and mediocre places, every
one of which is consecrated to some one member
or other of the beloved House of Brunswick.”
* * *
Touching the “baby boarding-house”ques-
tion, which is just now agitating the police mind
of Melbourne, the Age says that “ Victoria has
not yet become so over-populated that she can
afford to look with a calm eye upon the infant
destruction which is reported to be carried on.”
The morality of that sentence is worthy of the
journal in which it appears. The Age evidently
considers that babies ought to be protected up to
a certain point only. But when Victoria does be-
come over-populated it will be necessary to think
about legislating for the trouble. The Govern-
ment of the day can introduce a Baby Suppression
Act and offer a royalty on the scalps of the little
innocents.
* * *
At a certain recent New England (N.S.W.)
wedding, the bridegroom made quite a sensation
by blowing a large bugle-horn around the town-
ship for the edification of the natives. When he
had finished blowing his own trumpet he left it at
the local railway parcel-room in the care of the
clerk; but shortly afterwards, hearing its well-
known strains, he at once went for his “music,”
and, ye gods ! found a local Chinaman attached
to the mouthpiece “ giving it lip,” to the amuse-
ment of several facetious onlookers. People are
wondering whether the happy "wain will get a
new bugle.
THE “AGE OF REASON.”
“Minnie Wilkinson,” in a letter to the Sydney D.T., sug-
gests that, in view of the present prevalence of fearful outrages,
“every girl who has attained the age of reason” should carry
“either a bulldog-revolver or a pinfire-pistol.” Our artist has
here depicted the Wilkinsonially-armed female of the future.
A terrible catastrophe befell a young
couple who, the other day, had a tremendously
swell wedding. She took away with her up the
line the usual 40 trunks, and they arrived at the
honeymooning spot before it was discovered that
she had forgotten to bring the keys of the boxes.
* * *
Your writer of society pars, is expected to
have a deft and delicate hand. The subject is to
be just daintily effleurk, with a light and breezy
touch, as of a fire-fly’s wing. The Echo people
know this. That’s why their description of the
festivities on board the Nelson the other day was
such a lilac-tinted success. The duchess who
wrote it says that the light was “ modulated by
an awning.” “Modulated” is good. There was
also a “happy blending of the opposing arts and
peace and war—the formidable guns and the
various munitions of deadly carnage consenting to
lend themselves to a more merciful purpose.”
When we read that delicious bit about the for-
midable guns (howwid things !) and the various
munitions of deadly carnage, we positively thrilled
with sympathetic emotion. Had the writer been
handy we would have fallen on her neck and
caressed her —with a meat-axe.
* * *
“ Old Artilleryman ” points out in a Syd-
ney daily that a great deal of unnecessary crime
and not a few desertions are caused in the N.S.W.
Permanent Artillery force by the fact that the
non-commissioned officers and men are denied the
privilege (granted in the Victorian foroe) of wear-
ing civilian clothes when off duty. The writer
adds that the knowledge that he will be foroed at
all times to wear the uniform is a drawback which
prevents many a young man of the right
character and physique from joining the N.S.W.
force. “Old Artilleryman” is right. In Mel
bourne, some years since, a fine, well-set-up
young fellow, who wore a most fascinating frock-
coat and eye-glass, and heroically endured a collar
that oame within a tenth of an inch of cutting his
jugular, attracted much attention in Collins-street.
Well, when this young man (who, by the way, was
an educated gentleman, and a right good sort)
wasn’t mashing ’em on the block, he was mount-
ing-guard, or something (without the eye-glass)
in the uniform of a private soldier at the local
barracks, for a net screw of say one and six a
day. By-and-bye, a handsome young widow
came along, and snapped him up ; and now, in-
stead of being a private at eighteenpenoe a day,
he is a bloated but hard-working merchant, an
officer of militia, and a distinct ornament to Vic-
torian “ sassiety.” The chances are that had
this young man been compelled to appear in uni-
form on all occasions, the widow would never have
ooncentrated her gaze upon him and he would
still have been mounting guard. If the men of
the New South Wales Artillery are not allowed
sometimes to wear private clothes, then their
officers also should be ever compelled to appear
in uniform. These military swells are, for various
private reasons of their own, glad to get out of
uniform sometimes, though it might be just as
well in the public interest if they applied to them-
selves the rule as to clothes that they so diligently
enforce with respect to their men, some of whom
know quite as much about soldiering as do the
gorgeous array of field-marshals, generals, and
colonels located at Paddington and the harbour
batteries. Yes, let us by all means keep our
colonels and majors eternally in uniform. Then
we’ll be able to watoh them, as we watch the
poor, underpaid, and comparatively innooent red-
ooated postman.
The Randwick Derby Day of 1885 will be
remembered among the most enjoyable anniver-
saries of the contest. Everything
went to contribute to the success of
the occasion. The weather, which,
after all, has more to do with
pleasure on such occasions than even
the races themselves, deserved our
warmest thanks. As usual, the dust
along the Randwick Road was all
a patriotic alderman could wish for.
Left to its own sweet impulses, and
unrestrained by the vulgar trammels
of a water-cart, it rose on the balmy
air and had a “ real good time.” It
found out the secret places in one’s
coat or dress and filled them with
lavish generosity—we mean dust.
It is scarcely to be expected that
the “ city fathers” can neglect
their little contracts and do their
duty. We never expect them to
and they never disappoint us. On the
course, matters were better ar
ranged. But we must protest against
the barbarous mode of vending
tickets. The scene at the ticket-
windows is a disgrace to civilisa-
tion ; the public suffer long, but
we fancy if they simply rushed the
gate and refused to pay, the law
would deal leniently with them.
With this exception, the manage-
ment is to be congratulated, but
a little more attention to the lawn
would prevent bald patches of sand
showing all over it. The band of
the Permanent Artillery (which, by
the bye, has greatly improved of
late) began to play at 1 p.m., and
shortly afterwards H.E. and Lady
Carington came on the ground ac-
companied by the usual “Aides”
and attendants. Our hints on dress
do not seem to have been thrown
away on some of these Government
House young men, and we are
pleased to chronicle a great improve-
ment in their attire. We do not re-
member ever having seen more
fours-in-hand at Randwick. Some
were well worth looking at and
some well worth burning ; but, on
the whole, the carriages were hand-
some and the horses well up to the
mark. The lawn was very largely
patronised by the ladies, who were
evidently anxious to show their
spring dresses. In this they suc-
ceeded. When Mr. White’s Trident
landed the Derby, the pretty colt,
with the “ blue ribbon ” round its
neck, was led up to Lady Carington
to admire, and some 2000 persons
rushed from the saddling paddock
to admire Lady Carington ; all were
satisfied. The racing was admirable
throughout. Lady Carington wore
black silk and black lace, neat and
quiet as usual, with overall of grey
Melton cloth, slashed with tartan
silk facings. All eyes were turned on
Mrs. Terry, the bride of a fortnight
ago, who appeared in brown canvas
and red merveilleux satin with hat
to correspond.
* * *
Old Sir John Robertson’s last bust is to be a marble one,
and ought to satisfy him for some time. The promoters are
heads of the N.S.W. Civil Service, who wish to show their
gratitude for the many salaries the grand old man voted
them. A strong committee is formed, including Mr. Crit-
chett Walker, Mr. John Rae, Mr. A. Oliver, and many
others. Sir John gave Signor Simonetti, the sculptor, a sit-
ting on the 13th inst. Mr. G. F. Wise is hon. treasurer.
* * *
Wild flowers are having rather a bad time of it around
Sydney just now. Kogarah has determined to hold a native-
flower show, and Government has offered to employ its forest
rangers to gather and contribute flowers from the National
Park. It seems to us that the Park is not intended to be run
in the interests of Kogarah, nor are the rangers paid by the
State for that purpose. The object of the show is wisely left
unstated, but we suppose it is the usual curate business.
* * *
Mayor Young, aware of the uncertainty of human and
Mayoral life, has arranged a Jubilee Australian Municipality
meeting ! The thing sounds formidable ! He won’t wait for
that Centenary, but is going to have this little affair on the
12th prox. On the 14th, H.E. has to feed the aldermanic
corporations, and has consequently scoured the South Seas
for turtle. Sir P. Jennings also ‘ 1 extends his hospitality,” and.
though the fact is not mentioned, the only Dailey will “orate.' 1
Prior to returning to Germany, the land of music, that
clever pianist, Herr Koehler gave a farewell concert. Lady
Carington was present, as also were the officers of the Ger-
man man-of-war. The gallery was crammed, but all the
chairs in the hall were not filled. Those near the vice-regal
party were not empty. In the jargon of the musical critic,
“ the recitals” were deeply interesting, each part of the pro-
gramme being “ superbly interpreted.” Herr Koehler was all
smiles.
* * *
On Wednesday, 15th inst., Mr. and Mrs. L. Aarons, of
O’Connell-street, entertained a number of guests at Needs’
Rooms at a dance. Upwards of 180 persons were present,
among whom were noticed the Mayoress, Mr. and the Miss
Kiss, Mr. and Mrs. Skarratt, Mr. and Mrs. Alderson, Misses
Cohen, and Mrs. Frankel, &c. The dancing, which began at
9 p.m., continued until the early morning. There were many
brilliant and elegant costumes, and a most enjoyable night
was spent.
THE WHISPERING
CALLERV
. Thei popular Mr. “Ted ” Lee is better and will soon return
to N.S.W.
Surprise party at the residence of Mrs. J. C. Williamson on
the 15th inst.
JN° n Boucicault, sen., talks of “early retirement.” Pooh
Why he has just got married.
The members of the Sydney Union Club intend holding
their annual ball on the 24th inst.
The Glebe footballers wind up the season with a dance at
the local Town Hall on the Bth October.
A dance given by Mrs. Chisholm at her residence, North
Shore, on Wednesday last, was a great success.
N.S.W. Thistle Club’s annual gathering, Nov. 9, at Sydney.
Protestant Hall to be engaged and concert held.
A dinner party was given by Sir George and Lady Innes on
the 16th inst. Among the guests was Rear-Admiral Tryon.
The Royal Society of N.S.W. intend holding a conversa-
zione in the great hall of the University on Wednesday, 6th
October.
The Cercle Prancais last Saturday evening banqueted M
le Comte de Louvi&res, who leaves for Prance by the
Oc^anien.
Have you heard the very latest story of Sydney sassiety,
winding up with: "lam afraid Henry has again been suc-
cessful ?
“ Fifteen last birthday ” is the maximum age for children
eligible to attend the Mayor of Melbourne’s juvenile fancy
dress ball.
An advertisement, “Wanted a clerk,” will now in Sydney
be answered by at least 200 full-grown men willing to accept
£2 weekly or less.
On Monday, the 13th inst., Captain Thalenhorst and his
officers gave a well-attended dance on board the Salier. All
went off admirably.
Mrs. Russell-Barton’s dance, which was to have come off
on the 15th inst., Has been indefinitely postponed owing to
illness in the family.
(( Mr. Crawford, of divorce celebrity, is described as having
a dry official manner which seems hardly compatible with
the exercise of the tender passion.”
For a real exhibition of caddishness the conduct of some
of the audience at the last Sydney Liedertafel “took the
cake. What’s bred in the bone,” &c.
The last of the Gundagai (N.S.W.) Winter Assemblies was
held on the 14th inst., with the usual gratifying result. Social
gloom is the present prospect of that town
“ Mrs. W. Buggins, my Miss Rosine de St. Foix,” is the
legend which a Queensland lady has had imprinted on her
visiting cards. Society is getting real “ toney ”up North.
Yass show last week. There are 50 people in Yass
society,” and exactly 50 different cliques in the same, and
none of these cliques speak to the other. Gay town, Yass.
Eighth smoke-night concert of N.S.W. Art Society takes
place 7th October. Art should be helped a little, even if it
does put us above the popular level of burnt-cork and beer-
gardens.
Mrs. Crawford received over a dozen offers of marriage
during the hearing of the divorce case—one was from an
eminent lawyer who had been captivated in court during the
proceedings.
Sydney bank-employes just now are astonished at the
amount of ability which bank-directors have found the sons-
in-law and prospective sons-in-law of certain general mana-
gers to possess.
More deaths. This time the Hon. J. Byrnes. He was a
highly-respected man, which is a singular fact when it is
remembered that he was for a considerable time a member
of Parliament.
“Mrs. Crawford,” says an English writer, “ has a well-tuned
and pleasant voice, and her manners have all the artlessness
of an ingenuous girl of fourteen. But women are not always
what they seem.”
Gloves, two yards and a quarter in length, are the latest
Melbourne craze. These are worn crinkled from the wrist
to the shoulder. They are such a novelty that as much as £5
have been offered for one pair.
The Sydney socials assembled at Leigh House on Tuesday,
14th inst. The programme was extra long this being the last
dance. Mr. F. Meacle in an address gave a review of the past
season. About 140 were present.
The proceeds of the Marrickville wild-flower show on 23rd,
24th, and 25th inst., are to be divided between the local
Church of England and the Congregational Church, whose
directors now kneel in sweet harmony to the almighty
dollar.
The Scandinavian domino masquerade ball of last week at
Tattersall’s Hall, Sydney, attracted over 100 guests, who
danced until 5 a.m. Dominoes were worn till midnight only.
Messrs. Hjalmar Nissen, C. Miller, and N. Hansen were the
responsible officials.
There is not a particle of truth in the rumour that Miss
Nina Boucicault is engaged to a wealthy Melbourne man.
Nor—we are requested to say—is it true, as was reported by
several of the papers, that Mr. and Mrs. W. Cooper “gave a
dance” on 9th inst.
“ Grosvenor-square has oeased to be specially the residence
of the haute noblesse, albeit a few still linger there. Nouveaux
riches anxious to obtain an aristocratic aroma have invaded
the famous quadrangle”—Spitefully says a London paper,
which points out that Salmon Wilson, for instance, lives
there.
The Woollahra Private Assembly held their last dance at
Needs’ rooms on Friday the 17th. The room was even more
crowded than usual, so popular have these dances become.
Supper was quite in Baumann’s best style. Messrs. Needs’
band gave undiluted satisfaction, and the floor was equally
appreciated.
At Clifford, Potts Point, the residence of Mr. Thomas
Robertson, a delightful ball was given on 17th inst. in honour
of a daughter of the house, who has thus made her debut.
The evening was charming, and the guests, who included
many officers of H.M. fleet and representatives of Govt.
House, numbered about 130.
At the club. They gave Brown a very bony help of fowl.
Said he to the waiter : “Take this back to the cook and say
from me that if he can't carve better he will have to be dis-
missed." Asked Brown when the waiter returned : “Well,
what did the cook say ?” “He told me, sir, to ask you
whether you’d like a whole fowl.”
The Princess Beatrice has quite given up tricycling, an
exercise to which she was formerly devoted, and as a conse-
quence is rapidly adding to that redundancy of chin which
in late years has detracted considerably from what beauty
she possesses. Her Batt. is not troubled with a double chin;
the redundancy with him is in "cheek.”
At Wollongong (N.S.W.) a girl aged 18 years was charged
with having made a false declaration on the occasion of her
marriage. Among the witnesses was her mother, an astro-
nomical female, who said she “had just cause to complain
of her conduct since the transit of Venus seven years ago.”
The girl was only seven years of age then but that fiendish
transit demoralised her.
Abbe Liszt’s funeral was a great success. The “Master”
was followed to the grave by all sorts and conditions of men
and women, chiefly women, who wept all along thi track.
Old loves came for hundreds of miles round, and were, no
doubt, surprised to find they were not the only ones. The
Burgomaster of Baireuth (the local John Young) delivered
an oration at the grave side.
The patrons of a concert in Hobart, one evening lately,
had an unexpected addition to the entertainment. A banker
and his wife were confronted on leaving the hall by an in-
furiated member of the demi-monde, who ventilated her
grievances in the crowd, disclosing some alleged facts “ not
intended for publication.” The police came to the rescue,
and the mondaine is now in gaol.
At the Beautiful hash-house village of Manly—which has
of late years become far too civilised to be pleasant—an en-
joyable promenade concert took place on 16th inst. The 2nd
Regt’s. band provided good instrumental music, and Miss
Glendinning sang “It was a dream.” We did not think so,
we thought it was something else, but refrain from saying
what. Usual crowd—usual chairman.
At Auckland, N.Z., the performance of amateurs under the
direction of Herr Carl Schmidt, of “ Les Cloches de Come
ville,” has been a splendid success. The impersonator of
Grenicheux (Mr. J. Edwards) leaves for Australia shortly
with a view of adopting the lyric stage as a profession. Mr.
Du Faur, another amateur, has a splendid voice. Auckland
is just now the place for managers in search of musical
talent.
A Masonic ball held in Hobart Town Hall on 2nd inst. was
a great success. Many of the ladies’ costumes were hand-
some, and among the pretty faces honours were considerably
divided. The Misses Lewis wore pink silk and tulle; Miss
Susman, black satin and lace; Miss Marsh, pale blue and
creme; and Miss Walker (from Adelaide), in white lace,
were all admired, while the married ladies surpassed them-
selves. Mrs. E. L. Crowther wore a very pretty costume of
white satin and beads; Mrs. W. Ferguson, creme etamme;


Mrs. Walter Watchom, blue with coffee lace; and Mrs. D.
Lewis was gorgeous in creme, with red and gold striped
satin. Some exceptions to good taste were present in the
forms of a ‘‘grass widow” who appeared in a pink gown very
unbecoming to her complexion; the wearer of a black and
cardinal costume with her face rouged to match; and a
bijick costume trimmed with silver, unpleasantly suggestive
of a coffin.
At Ryde Cricket Club concert on Tuesday last one per-
former sang an adaptation of “ Other Arrangements " which
ran:—
11 Mr. Wright, they say, is an innocent man,
But he’ll have to make other arrangements,”
and so on, ad nauseam. Considering that some of Mr
Wright's family were there, this savoured rather strongly of
an 'Arryism which called for the “cat” quite as loudly as
many other less fashionable offences.
The epidemic of giddiness in South Australia is affecting
all classes alike. The Harmy has got it very bad just now.
Not even the band is free from its ravages. A nineteen-
year-old Salvation drummer named Brown has eloped with a
fair-fat-and-forty married woman named Prior. They first
met at “ knee-drill,” and they subsequently met on the
strict Q.T. Query : How could drummer Brown love when
he had formed a Prior attachment ? '
Very recently the Footscray (Vic.) Council—perhaps in the
hope of their own individual turns coming in due time —
generously voted the Mayor an annual allowance of 2J per
cent, on the gross revenue of the borough. This arrange-
ment is full of promise for the promoters. At the present
moment a 2£ percentage amounts to £250 per annum —in a
few years' time it would amount to five times as much. Out
of pure cussedness, however, 69 ratepayers signed a petition,
requesting that lucky dawg, the Mayor, to call a public
meeting to discuss his good fortune. He was amazed. He
laid the petition before his brother councillors. They were
amazed. The idea of ratepayers presuming to question the
private jobs of the mystic circle was altogether ridiculous.
Mr. Mayor was advised to treat the application of those
outside “nonentities” with silent contempt. He did, and
hence the trouble. A monster meeting of the nonentities was
held, awful resolutions were passed, and it looks as though
the 2j per shent scheme will fall through. The eye of every
mayor in Victoria has been anxiously fixed upon Footscray,
and now those eyes are filling with bitter, bitter tears.
BRIEF MENTION.
Notice to Sydney mashers. —“ Puppies
must be registered by 30th Sept.”
History must be respected. The N.S.W.
“ Centennial ” drink will be rum.
That undertaker’s horse ran last for the
Derby ; he thought he was starting for a funeral.
A doctor is wanted at Nambuccra Heads
(N.S.W.) to fill along-felt want, viz., the local
cemetery.
Dibbs says he will suppress the sweeps.
We are sorry. We don’t like to see members of
Parliament go to gaol.
Burrawang (N.S.W.) is agitating for a
policeman. This, we presume, is a roundabout
way of saying that the local “ slavies ” have gone
on strike.
The Revd. Ralph Brown is lecturing in
Victoria—subject, “My Trip round the World on
Six and Sixpence, and how I did it.” On the
cheap, evidently.
The Manning River Times reports that
a resident in that district is in a very dangerous
condition from an attack of dropsy, ‘ ‘ said to be
caused by drinking water.”
The leading toast at the so-called ‘ ‘ Aus-
tralian Centennial” will be, not “The Date we
Celebrate,” but “ the Day we Celebrate.” A dis-
tinction with a difference.
The North Queensland journalist is brief
and to the point. “We recommend the Inspector
of Nuisances,” says the Northern Miner, “to
Stand in front of Allen’s stores and sniff.”
Advt. from Sydney D.T.: —“ Lady partner
with £lOO wanted, to join another with similar
amount in purchasing an old-established lodging-
house. Eleven beds, nearly full of gentlemen.”
At Mirboo (Vic.), a J.P. has been fined
10s. for being drunk and disorderly. The pillar of
justice happened to be hard-up at the moment,
and was consequently sent to pine away in a
pestilential dungeon.
A condemned prisoner has had to be re-
moved from Portland (Vic.) because there was no
local gallows. It is hard for a N.S.W. man to
understand how any town can be run without a
complete set of hanging fixings.
An Adelaide boniface has been recovered
from the bottom of Torrens’ Lake. They say that
“ how deceased got into the lake is a mystery.”
Very likely he made a mistake and drank some of
the liquor set apart for customers.
The latest idea is to print newspapers in
luminous ink, so that they can be read at night.
-It will be a relief when we are able to speak
about “ that luminous leader in the Herald ”
without risking our immortal soul by perjury.
At Kempsey (N.S.W.) the local Charon
and the local parson have had a lawsuit arising
out of the former’s refusal to ferry the latter
gratis over the local Styx. Charon won. In the
next world the poor parson may get a cheap pull.
Religious mania at Melbourne. An Irish-
man rushed into a Salvation Army meeting with a
razor in his hand. It took three policemen to pre-
vent him from carrying out his dire purpose. He
had intended cutting the throat of the first trom-
bone.
A Melbourne paper says “ it is the criminal
ability that has made all the great judges in the
old country.” We never before saw such a state-
ment in print, but colonial experience inclines us
to accept it. Set a thief to judge a thief, doncher-
know.
“ Robt. Baine, printer, aged 20, has been
fined 10s. for walking about South Melbourne
dressed as a female with a sofa-pillow for an
improver.” The police saw through the disguise
at once. A woman would have worn at least two
sofa-pillows.
In Otago (N.Z.), a young lady chloro-
formed her father’s big dog and eloped with a
local puppy before the other animal had recovered
consciousness. It is now reported that she wishes
she had chloroformed the puppy instead and
eloped with the dog.
In writing an account of a ball at Rock-
hampton (Q.) recently, the reporter tried to say
that a lady “ looked au fait at waltzing,” but the
compositor made it appear that she “ looked all
feet.” The feet, we believe, were rather con-
spicuous, and that was why she was so angry
about it.
The Melbourne police have, it is wired,
“ drawn attention to the fact that a giddy dance
is being performed at a place of entertainment in
the city.” As the Victorian Ministry consist
chiefly of bald-headed men, we presume Police-
Commissioner Chomley has got from the Cabinet
a pinch for stale news.
A Commissioner in Lunacy was lately
visiting an English asylum. One of the patients
insisted that he was the Prince of Wales. “Oh
come,” replied the Commissioner, “ the last time
I was here you told me that you were the King of
Greece. “ Very true,” was the ready answer,
but that was by another mother.”
New Guinea correspondent of the S.M.
Herald: —“We found civilisation had made
rapid strides in our absence from Port Moresby.
A gaol was in course of erection, and the site for a
cemetery is marked out.” Which recalls what a
certain lady once said: —“ Mr. Stiggins, my
dear, is a very holy man—he believes in a material
hell, and his vestments are all that they should
be.”
That well-known individual who calls a
spade a spade is living j ust no w at Gundagai, N.S.W.
He writes in the Gundagai Times “to draw
attention to the fact that some dirty, filthy brute,
not fit to live.” &c,, and adds that “the contempt-
able skunk who has committed this gross outrage,”
&c. It seems that the bridge has been newly
upholstered and some one has been damaging the
paint.
The Melbourne papers have not yet done
gushing over Bishop Moorhouse and his remark-
able powers. To illustrate the muscular Chris-
tianity of that good and fortunate gentleman, the
Herald tells a story about him climbing Snowdon
in quicker time than a guide. The guide, it seems,
had a wooden leg. After this we are fully pre-
pared to hear that the Bishop can read small print
better than a man who squints.
“ These ‘ larrikin ’ boots,” said a Sydney
boot-factory manager when interviewed last week,
“give us more trouble than any others. You
have no idea how vain a larrikin is of his feet.
One of them with an ‘ 8 ’ foot will get into a ‘ 6 ’
boot, and the consequence is he always walks
with his toes doubled up beneath him. We make
the heels so high in these boots that none but a
practised man could stand in them, let alone walk
about.”.
On the road to Kimberley an overladen party
resolved to bury part of their stores. To mark
the spot and keep the treasure safe they put up a
tombstone bearing an unholy lie which repre-
sented the tobacco as a dead ratepayer, the
petrified delusion announcing itself as “ Sacred
to the memory of Peter —” This wickedness, how-
ever, did not prosper, for the next party who
came along dug up the grave and put the corpse in
their pipes and smoked it. The man who tells
this story also says that he killed 32 cockatoos
and 11 pigeons in three shots, so his yarn is likely
true.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Mr. J. F. Whitely, of Goulbum (N.S. W.),
wishes it to be distinctly understood that the boy
Camby was proceeded against for the larceny of a
letter addressed to Mr. Whitely aforesaid and not
for purloining the lunch of Brother Fenton O’Neill.
The police, according to a statement forwarded,
would seem to have thought the lunch of more
value than the letter, especially knowning that it
was intended for Brother Fenton O’Neill Mr.
Gresley Lukin will probably contest Hartley. We
hartley wish him success One Leavey of Warra-
gul, Vic., advertised that “he would not be re-
sponsible,” &c. Whereupon his wife wrote
“ Editor Guardian.—lt would be as well if my
husband paid his own debts. I will pay mine.—
Theresa Leavey.” Farm produce to the
amount of £120,000 imported into Sydney during
August The St. Petersburg correspondent of
the S.M. Herald tries to make out that Baron
Maclay, of Sydney, isn’t a Baron after all A
deputation from the Borough of Kew (Melb.)
waited upon Chief Secretary Deakin to protest
against the damming of the Yarra. Such pro-
tests are indeed futile. Victorians who possess
any sort of sense of smell will continue to “ damn ”
the Yarra—aye, as long as the river flows The
Melbourne coroner’s own constable has tendered
his resignation after holding the gruesome billet
for 24 years. The hundreds of corpses this con-
stable has seen through their trouble ought to
give him a testimonial An old Grenfell miner
writes from Cambridge Gulf that Kimberley
“goldfield” is the biggest swindle known for
years Extract from the official log-book of the
Wardell (N.S.W.) honorary magistrates:—“So
and So, for being drunk, fined 48 hours in the
lock-up, or five bob.” C. G. Dickson, who re-
cently suicided in Townsville, had “knocked
down” £240 in eleven days, £l4O of which
was spent in one hotel At Napier (N.Z.)
15 Salvationists were brought up for breach
of bye-laws, and one of them rose and
testified in court, saying, “ The devil makes laws
and magistrates fire the balls.” He was committed
for contempt by the outraged worm on the bench,
but he grovelled abjectly and got off. The
Mount Lyell (Tas.) goldfield is apparently a mag-
nificent discovery. Interests have already changed
hands at enormous prices The Tasmania gold
mine (Tas.) has now paid £420,000 in dividends.
That muscular, smoke-dried, and lucky indi-
vidual, Sir A. Mitchell, has been appointed
Governor of Fiji S.M. Herald’s London cor-
respondent lately said Baden Powell, M.P., had
publicly “ scouted Heaton, M.P.’s pretensions to
be a representative Australian. Powell, M.P.,
now denies that he ever said anything of the kind,
and invites perusal of Hansard report of his
speech. The Herald owes Heaton an apology
The latest about Spofforth is that he was at the
Canterbury (Eng.) cricket-ball “ enjoying himself
like an ordinary person, and appearing to be quite
harmless in the waltz.” At Braidwood (N.S.W.)
when the news came that the town was to have a
railway, everyone “ was intoxicated with delight,
and ran about to and fro in an excited manner. ”
We presume that “to and fro ” means in and out
of the local whisky-mills...,The race-mare, Actress,
stolen at Herberton (Q.) Leslie and Smith ar-
rested on suspicion. Not the first time two men
have got into trouble over one actress.
* * *
Commander Yicary (93), Admiral Sir G.
Sartorius (94), and Lieut.-Col. Fynmore (95), are
the three last Trafalgar officers alive. But the
Waterloo veterans are about 150 ahead of their
total on the morning of the battle, and are adding
to their numbers daily Ismail Pasha, ex-
Khedive of Egypt, is tearing his Egyptian hair in
Rome. He went there a year or two ago with 30
wives and now he has only 27, the other three
having sloped this is Coptic for eloped—with an
equal number of gay Italian officers Ominous
fact. The three most important members of the
British Cabinet—Randolph Churchill, Salisbury,
and Hieks-Beach—are all in bad health Glad-
stone s Midlothian election expenses amounted
only to £l9l 3s. Id The Paris Petit Journal
has an average issue of 886,000. The profits are
over £200,000 per annum There is enough
good land still unoccupied in various parts of the
British Empire to give about 30,000,000 people
each a farm of 150 acres Referee says that
Lord Randolph Churchill as Chancellor of the
Exchequer is the mastodon joke of the century.
ll Italian professor says that the inhabitants
of the planet Mars, who are supposed to be a race
of giants 14ft. in height, are engaged carrying
round lights and signalling to the earth Bis-
marck weighs 2111 b The Prince of Wales draws
£6OOO a year as Field-Marshal and £2075 annually
as a general! There is an attractive novelty at
times even in suicides. An American has just
accomplished a perish by putting a handkerchief
in his mouth and poking it down his throat with a
ruler. The only disadvantage of this mode of
death is that the deceased can’t blow his nose at
the last moment Dilke, when he finally left the
Divorce Court, got the reception the world
generally accords to a fallen wretch. The mob
sent him off with “ Dirty Dilke ! Three groans
for dirty Dilke.” Certain Waterford people
are trying to mako the Corporation remove
from the Council Chamber the portraits of the
Royal Family and substitute a portrait of T. F.
Meagher, convicted of sedition in ’4B, and trans-
ported to Tasmania, whence he “skipped” to
America Mr. Labouchere on the new Tory
Lord Chancellor of England : ‘ ‘ Lord Halsbury is
a third-rate lawyer of the Buzfuz type, who dis-
tinguished himself last autumn by the grossest
political jobbery, and by putting his own relatives
in good places.” Lord Yarborough, lately mar-
ried in England, was, with the exception of the
Duke of Portland, the most eligible parti of the
period. He has a splendid estate and had a
longish minority.
MATRIMONIAL MATTERS.
“ Reformer,” writing to the Sydney Evening
News on the Divorce Bill, says, among other
things : —“I would make it criminal for a man
to get married until he could prove (say to
the police magistrate of the district) that he
could properly support a wife. I would also
make it criminal for a young woman to get
married until, in like manner, she could prove
that she was tidy in her person and habits, and
possessed some knowledge of cooking.”
Oh, delicious ! We fancy we see ’em—
The man and his prospective bride—
Going up to be passed by the P.M.
Before they can have the knot tied ;
In “ our mind’s eye, Horatio,” we look on
A man who dare go into court
And unblushingly swear, the great Book on,
That he has enough to support
A colonial young damsel, whose notion
Of wedlock is wide of her vows,
Of obedience and lifelong devotion
To that humbled mammal, her spouse—
Who immediately after the marriage
Intends to play up and kick high,
And drive round with the loveliest carriage
And pair that mere bullion can buy I
Some ethereal sweet virgin with cheek as
Tne lily, and hair of old gold—
Some soft maiden as timid and meek as
A fawn, who will surely unfold
And develope a bit after wedlock,
And show who’s the “boss,” and proceed
To run Love and Bliss to a deadlock
Unless the old man planks the greed !
Who has yet passed her life ’mid the shadows,
And had till now no chance to sate
All her soul’s secret thirst for strange dados,
And hay-coloured hangings, and plate
Wrought from rare designs, ancient and costly,
And quite too unspeakably sweet;
And malachite card-tables, mostly
Borne on pearl-inlaid crocodiles’ feet!
Who designs, with a thought full of menace
To her hub’s purse, to give a grand ball
Every month, and run weekly lawn-tennis,
And have the “ best people” to call —
Think of him whom this girlish thing blesses
With her love, making ready to swear
He can keep her in diamonds and dresses,
And flowers, and old china, and hair I
Here’s a glimpse of the future. Miss Fanny
Fitz-Pottzpoynt is called on to prove
What her knowledge of cooking (if any)
Is like, at the jury-room stove,
While a bald-headed beak, who is toothless
And deaf and dyspeptic, hangs round,
And in tones that are beakish and ruthless
Finds fault where no fault can be found.
First of all he insists that her fritters
Are tasteless and burnt to a coal;
Then he further oomplains, and embitters
The hapless young candidate’s soul
By informing her that, for the sake of'
This life, which is sweet, he’ll not try
Her poor toad-in-the-hole, or partake of
Her pound-cake, or veal-and-ham pie !
Who, uncaring that his stern decision
May wreck the fair hope of two hearts,
Her plum pudding regards with derision,
And with open revulsion her tarts ;
Who maintains her short-bread must be shorter,
Her fish far more thoroughly fried,
Much more carefully browned her fore-quarter,
Ere she can be passed as a bride !
Whose relentless demeanour quite flurries
The maid who is trying her best
Through the medium of peppery curries
To render her lover more blest—
Whose Draconic judicial comment is
That she should not hasten to wed
A poor man whom a sea-cook’s apprentice
Would manage to keep better fed !
Who would fix a chill spectacled eye on
Her hash, and inquire if the groom
Was expected to live on, or die on
Such stuff; and, in words full of doom,
Worthy any fierce Crown Prosecutor,
Indict her endeavour at bread
As being tasteless as long-emptied pewter,
And fatal as death-dealing lead!
Who informs her, with sternness that, since pie
Is made to sustain, not to slay,
The best use she can make of her mince-pie,
Is to carefully chuck it away ;
Who exults in her woe, and, in summing
The case up, proceeds to explain
That there’s no sort of use in her coming
And wasting the Court’s time again !
Think of Love —the divine high emotion,
The magnet that draws heart to heart—
Being baulked by a magistrate’s notion
Of how you should make a jam-tart!
Think of two loving souls separated,
And left to wear life out alone,
Just because a grim P.M. has stated
That the maiden can’t “ devil ” a bone !
Think of this, O, most drastic “ Reformer ”
A youth is beloved by a maid,
With a love that is wilder and warmer
Than even poor Juliet displayed ;
He has gold in abundance—the sweet one,
In order to pass her “exam.,”
Has for twelve months read up Mrs. Beeton—
Can make all description of jam—
Can fold napkins three ways, can brew ketchup
That the P. M. himself must extol,
Can to ardour work e’en that old wretch up
By the way she turns out a rissole,
Can preserve hams, make yeast, and in hashes
Excel —can bring in a warm broil
Without any suspicion of ashes
Or cinders—can fry things in oil!
When the youth cannot win the sweet bride he
So longs for, because the cold Beak
Thinks back hair and a bustle “ untidy,”
He starts in a wild vengeance to wreak—
First, he brains the P.M. with the griddle,
Then he and the candidate oat
Two bath-buns not yet warmed to the middle,
And expire at the magistrate’s feet!
No, “ Reformer! ” There’s not any magic
In your help. Just let things abide
As they are. Life’s sufficiently tragic
At present for bridegroom and bride,
Over wedded life now there’s some shedding
Of tears —and some shedding of gore—
Only now this comes after the wedding,
While by your law ’twould happen before !
Up North, the other day, the Birksgate
(s.) saw a signal of distress. She headed for it,
tore through the water full speed for a whole
hour amid great excitement, and at last ranged
alongside a large full-rigged ship with the ominous
blue light still at the masthead. Then, in answer
to a hail, an officer solemnly inquired, “Which
side of the island ahead was reckoned the best
anchorage ? ” It was too much. With a yell of
rage the steamboat captain told the stranger to
anchor in the crowded depths of perdition, and
then he steamed away. It would have been
hardly possible to improve on the joke unless a
poker-party on board had run out of change and
the signal of distress had been hoisted with a view
to obtaining sixpen’orth of coppers.
The Bishop of Exeter has gone in for a new
line —the confirmation of idiots. The Church wants
recruits, and his reverence accordingly picked out
five promising young lunatics in the Western
Counties Idiot Asylum, and admitted them into the
communion of the English church. They were all,
of course, hopeless cases, for it would hardly do to
waste a shovel-hatted blessing on a lunatic who
might afterwards recover and explain that he
took the bishop for a circus, but the man with the
sacerdotal gaiters speaks highly of the “devout
reverence of these carefully-prepared candidates.”
And yet these youths, who are thus supposed to
understand all about the solemn mysteries of
religion, are not regarded as fit to be trusted out-
side the asylum walls ; they can hardly tell their
right hand from their left, and do not probably
know the difference between predestination and
potatoes, or between blue ruin and regeneration.
But perhaps this is just the reason why they were
regarded as such good subjects for confirmation.
The alleged victim of the hideous Mount
Rennie (Sydney) assault case tells one of the
queerest stories ever heard of. She is 16 years
old, and was educated at Bathurst Convent. She
doesn’t know where she was born. She doesn’t
know her father ; she doesn’t know her mother.
She has no sister, but she has four brothers, three
of whom she knows nothing about, and the other
of whom she can’t find. Her uncle, a most mys-
terious person, wrote to her to come to Sydney,
but he didn’t turn up at the railway-platform
according to promise, and she could find out
nothing about him or his address. Her board and
lodging was for a week or so platonically paid for
by a benevolent young man whom she had known
at Bathurst, and after getting into and out of
various situations, each held by her for but a very
short while, she put up at the house of a woman
living in a back-lane in the Haymarket quarter,
who obligingly charged her nothing for board.
Then one day, while walking in classic Sussex -
street near the Chinese quarter, she was hailed by
a philanthropic cabman, who, finding that she was
in search of a situation, volunteered to drive her
round, persuaded her to jump into his cab, and
finally drove her off, quite against her will, to
Moore Park, where, after escaping from the cab-
man, she fell into still worse hands.


SYDNEY AS IT IS.
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED BUSINESS.
THE REWARD OF ENTERPRISE.
That all the sights worth seeing in Sydney are
not available to the visitor who secures admission
by the payment of an entrance fee, is patent to
everyone who has by chance got off the beaten
track which connects the show places of the city.
Many, indeed, of those which would provoke the
highest interest and the most lasting satisfaction
are to be found in quarters where the sight-seeker
would be the least likely to look for them, or
expect to find them. In the great arteries of com-
mercial life, in the streets in which business reigns
supreme, there are sights to be seen of such
magnitude and importance, so much of novelty,
and such fabulous store of the world’s everyday
necessities that they come like a revelation to the
man who thinks he has “done” Sydney, and
suggests to him the possibility that he may have
commenced the wrong end.
Not that such establsshments can by any stretch
of the imagination be supposed to come under the
generic heading of “ sights” in the ordinary accep-
tation of the term, but that they are so self-consti-
tuted, in their relationship to the enormous trade
on which the wealth and prosperity of the colony
are founded. In this connection may be appro-
priately quoted the extensive wholesale iron-
mongery and hardware business of
MESSRS. T. W. EADY and SON,
centered in the handsome and commodious block
of buildings in Kent-street used as bulk stores for
the reception of imported goods, and in the actual
business premises, showrooms, and offices belong-
ing to the same firm in York-street. This well-
known business dates back to the year 1839, when
it was established by Mr. T. W. EADY as the
first tannery in the colony. As such it was suc-
cessfully worked for some years, developing
gradually by the addition of leather grindery,
shoe-findings, coach and saddlers’ ironmongery,
&c., always increasing and surely gathering the
respect of its constituents, and an ever-enlarging
circle of support from the general public. About
thirteen years ago the respected founder of the
business (Mr. T. W. Eady) retired from it in favor
of his son, Mr. R. 11. Eady, who was joined by
Mr. J. J. St. Clair, since which time it has been
carried on by these gentlemen under the well-
known name of T. W. Eady and Son.
The tan yards have long since been closed, and
the specialities of the firm comprised under the
the heading “General Ironmongery” in its
relations to Builders, Furnishers, Spuatters,
Agriculturists, Coachmakers, Saddlers, Tanners,
and Curriers, &c.
The BULK STORES consist of a massive block
of buildings at the top of Kent-street, used solely
for the reception and storage of imported goods.
They are of five storeys, each of which is devoted
to a special class of merchandise. Under the
courteous guidance of Mr. R. H. Eady, a visit to
these premises revealed enormous quantities of
every description of articles suggested by the name
of the business, including Hickory Poles, Shafts,
Wheels, Spokes, Hubs, Tilt Hoops, &c., Lamps by
the thousand; all kinds of cunningly devised
vehicular springs, Tanners and Curriers requisites,
large crates of Crockery, and a generally bewilder-
ing quantity of articles, the very names of which
are a mystery to the visitor. Floor upon floor in
these warehouses, stacked with merchandise and
connected throughout with ponderous lifts, are
occupied by men packing, unpacking, classifying
or distributing the wares in each; and in the
basement are cellars of great area, containing
hundreds of tons of galvanised and bar iron,
cement, sheet and white lead, nails, and sundry
commodities known as “ builders’ hardware.” In
the oil cellar are tiers of casks of whale and cod
oils, with other varieties adapted for special con-
sumption ; the kerosene business done by this firm
being exceptionally large, and extending over a
very wide area of Australia. Amongst the brands
of kerosene is the now famous “ Snowflake,” large
quantities of which are placed in circulation by
Messrs. Eady and Son, and referred to by them
(with the encouraging admission to refiners and
agents of “Snowflake”) that the number of re-
orders of that favourite oil have marked its rapid
advance in public favour ; an advance attributable
to its purity, safety, and brilliance in combustion.
SHOW ROOMS and OFFICES.
These are situated at No. 36 York-street, and
maintain a reputation second to none in Sydney.
The building consists of five stories, each of which
is devoted to a display of samples of the goods
received from the bulk stores in Kent-street; the
first floor carrying the offices of the principals
(Messrs. R. H. Eady and J. J. St. Clair), and the
clerical staff connected with the establishment.
Each floor is connected by a lift, the motive
power for which is supplied by a neat little gas-
engine in the basement, which is also used as a
packing-room. In addition to the every-day
wants of a large population which are apparently
provided for in every direction within the limits
of this trade, there is a great deal that is interest-
ing and novel to an outsider. During the recent
visit of Mr. Eady to the United States and Europe
he appears to have been very successful in collect-
ing samples of inventive genius destined to pro-
cure for him the blessings of numerous victims.
Such, for instance, as
MUSGRAYE’S PATENT MILK TESTER,
an entirely new invention of English origin, which,
at the cost of a few shillings, enables the anxious
housekeeper at a glance to protect herself from the
machinations of the milk-adulterating fiend on the
occasion of his every visit. This necessary adjunct
to every domestic manager is in the form of a neat
crockery-ware mug, in which is confined in a metal
cage a small red object not unlike a diminutive
gourd ; if the milk poured into the mug be pure
the gourd rises with it and floats visibly on a level
with the surface. If not, it remains obstinately
at the bottom of the cage, and the prospects of the
milkman are at the mercy of his customers.
There is also a machine known as “ Evan’s
Patent Potato Washer,” a thoroughly practical
and cheap blessing, but characterised by so much
simplicity that the temptation to exclaim “ how
is it no one thought of it before ? ” is irresistible.
Many contrivances of a similar description, and
most of them designed with a view to the great
necessity of the age—saving of labour—are to be
found in this portion of the premises, and the
display of an attractive exhibition of lamp-ware,
leads to a confirmation by Mr. St. Clair of the
opinion that as a safe and excellent light, the
popularity of “Snowflake” Kerosene is assured,
no instance having come to his knowledge in
which it had failed to give every satisfaction to
their customers.
The privilege of inspecting such orderly, exten-
sive, and well-arranged premises as those known
to the commercial world by the name of T, W.
Eady and Son is impressed upon the mind of the
visitor by his introduction to a variety of subjects
of which he was previously ignorant, and by hav-
ing added considerably to his stock of knowledge
through the medium of his courteous guides and
the vast amount of descriptive information at
their command,
THE RULING PASSION.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER: “GREAT HEAVENS! THERE’S A MAN FALLING
FROM A SCAFFOLDING. IF I ONLY HAD MY INSTANTANEOUS APPARATUS
HERE, WHAT A STRIKING PICTURE I COULD MAKE OF IT ?”
In Persia a bell rings for prayer five times
a day, and business men instantly rush out of their
offices and do a Mohammedan flop in the nearest
mosque, and yet nothing is stolen in their absence.
Perhaps that is because the people are heathens.
In this country, whence we send missionaries to the
heathen, if a man went out to attend prayers, he
would tie his clerk to a pump, lock up the door,
and then hire a policeman to watch the store and
a nigger to watch the policeman, and then he
would stay himself to watch the nigger until he
was too late for the service. Besides, he would
not go to prayers at all.
ECZEMA AND BAD SORES.
Your Cutioitra has done a wonderful cure for me more
than two years ago. Not a sign of its reappearance since.
It cured me of a very bad eczema which had troubled me for
more than twenty years. I shall always speak well of Cuti-
cura. I sell a great deal of it.— Frank C. Swan, Druggist,
Havenhill, Mass.
I had a dozen bad sores upon my body, and tried all reme-
dies I could hear of and at last tiied your Cuticura Reme-
dies and they have cured me.— Jno. Gaskill, Hebron,
Thayer County, Penn.
Proctor, the astronomer, in one of his
lectures, says:—“The idea of sacrifice was bor-
rowed from nations having a debased conception
of the Deity ! from men who imagined a God after
their own likeness. They gave Him all the attri-
butes of the being most powerful in their eyes—
the Oriental despot—cruel and relentless if
offended, and ready to take offence at the least
(even accidental) fault of omission or commission.
The cruelties of the King of Dahomey scarcely
surpass those committed by Moses claiming
Divine authority for his conduct (Numbers, chap-
ter 31). The most debasing superstitions des-
cribed by African travellers are not more ghastly
than the method of divination by a medicine-test
appointed in the fifth chapter of Numbers.”
A JOKE ON THE JUDGE.
A Queensland Judge, who is the perfection of dignity on
the Bench, swore in a witness, rather frivolous-looking
female. ‘‘ What is your name?” “Happy Ann.” “Wheie
do you reside?" asked the Judge. The witness giggled and
replied, ‘ * What’s the use of me telling you where I live, you
wouldn't call on me anyhow—would you, Judge?” “Oh, yes,
I would, if you could offer me any inducement.” “ Oh, thank
you, Judge; indeed I can. I know your weakness.” As she
was leaving the court she tipped the wink and said, “ Will
the famous St. Louis Lager Beer be any inducement?” The
Judge adjourned the court and joined Happy Ann.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Scia-
tica and other analogous affections should try
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne, a medicine that
has, since its introduction in 1844, been tried on a
very large scale both by the Medical Profession and
the Public in every part of the habitable Globe,
with unvaried success. Since its introduction
into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and
is now regarded as the most efficient and valuable
medicine that has ever been introduced into the
Colony. The Profession prescribe it; Missionaries
prefer and use Freeman’s Chlorodyne, and people
leaving Sydney for the interior invariably take a
sufficient supply to last them a twelvemonth.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark an Elephant.—Obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
The Queen’s visit to the Colonial Exhibition
had curious results. Society flocked to the show,
and the throng of beautiful women of the highest
rank was unprecedented since the earlier part of .
Her Majesty’s reign. The ladies’ dresses were an
exhibition of themselves, and the swell operators
among the London cut-purses made a field-day.
The Duchess of Westminster had a jewelled watch-
chain, worth two hundred guineas, neatly cut
away with pincers, and Lady Dudley lost a necklet
and locket, valued at three hundred and seventy-
five guineas for the gold and gems alone. As a
work of art and a family jewel the locket was
priceless. The Hon. Mrs. Cholmondely had a
jewelled bracelet actually stolen from her arm in
the pressure, and a most audacious attempt was
made to snatch a diamond earring from the car
of the Countess of Exeter by a person who dis-
appeared in the crowd. Not any of the st 'cn
jewels have been recovered, despite the utmost
exertions of the police. The Marchioness of I'y
also lost a most exquisite necklet and locket, Iha
beauty of which had hut a few minutes bc 'oro;
been commented on hy the Princess Beatrice ini
the private retiring rooms of the royal party ; a d
Lady Rosebery had a massive albert chain snipped
clean away from her watch. In these last f.v3>
instancs. however, London Society is laughirg at
the expense of the thieves. It appears that a
great number of the leaders of fashion in Eng 1 and,
warned by past losses, do not wear their fa“'”y
jewels on public occasions, or when shop: ’• g.
They take the precaution to wear jewellery wlrcii
is indistinguishable from sterling gold and ’e il
gems, but which, despite Its beauty and la°ti lg
quality, is comparatively costless. This is kn"v n
as Oriental Gold, which is made in all the i-o;t
delicate and beautiful designs, and can there’ e
he worn with impunity by the highest ladies In
the case of Lady Rosebery and the Marchioi c s
of Ely it was these goods which deceived ever. ’ '.e
practised eye of the cleverest London swell nr •-
men, and which had called forth the encomiums cf
the Princess Beatrice. This curious incident has
occasioned quite a sensation in London, and his
created an extraordinary demand for these orieii’ al
gold articles of jewellery. The manufactu c 3
have a branch in Sydney at 474, George-street.
opposite the Markets, so that Sydney ladies need
not be out of the fashion.
HEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10,30.
It is with feelings of great pride the directors
refer to the
GRAND INAUGURATION of their
ANNUAL OPERA SEASON,
by
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROYE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CONPANY.
And the directors content themselves by simply
announcing that Gilbert and Sullivan’s most suc-
cessful work
THE MIKADO
will be repeated until further notice.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessee ... ... ... Mr. Jno. Solomon.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Stage Manager Mr. Alfred Maltby.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY,
and for the
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF THE SEASON,
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY,
The Latest Criterion Success, and Farcical
Comedy,
TWO TOO MANY.
Prices Orchestra Chairs, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Gallery, Is.
Box Office at Nicholson’s.
General Business Manager, Monty Browne.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE HOME OF MIRTH AND FUN.
Re-Engagement of Miss MINNIE HOPE, the
great favourite.
First Appearance of Miss G. HARRIS.
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25,; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
EW OPERA HOUSE
Under the lesseeship and management of
E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
LAST NIGHTS of LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS of LAST NIGHTS
Mr. W. J. HOLLOWAY,
and
Miss ESSIE JENYNS,
universally pronounced by press and public to be
the foremost ACTRESS OF AUSTRALIA,
in Frank Harvey’s great success,
A RING OF IRON.
A RING OF IRON.
Box plan at Nicholson’s music store, corner of
King and George streets. Prices of admission—
Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; PIT, ONE SHILL-
ING.
Bus. Man. for W. J. Holloway... W. H. Manning
Royal standard theatre
Castlereagh-Street.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
This and every Evening,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
FRIDAY Next, SEPTEMBER 24th,
Grand Fashionable Night,
ROMEO and JULIET.
JULIET Miss DAMPIER.
In preparation, FAUST and AS YOU LIKE IT,
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph, of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timato use has been found for this noble metal, by-
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. 'l'lie Oriental Gol<l Co.,
of 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Soli Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of tho fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Soli—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Cent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Cold
Co.
dgp“We send tlieseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the first
Mail, and we repay the cash, less post ng;e.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD GO.,
474 George-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1882.
WE have again much pleasure in addres: ' r
our customers and the public. The rani l
expansion of our business, and the repeated orc' j i
we receive from customers who dealt with us a ’>
far back as 1882, are gratifying proofs that or
Goods and our method of doing business £. vo
satisfaction.
We continue the same system. We buy dir -it
from the makers in London, Paris, and New Y.i ;
all such Goods, Watches, &c., as are not the p—>
duct of our Company’s own works. We ad l a
fair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CAP ,
thus avoiding bad debts, and steering clear of tnj
evil system of charging rates which compel pa.' i
customers to make good the default of bad ma -
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTEM.
The full value must accompany any order, or no attcn 11
will be paid to it. Payment can be made by Postage Sta’.i s
of any Australian colony up to £1 worth, by Cheque, or
P. O. 0., payable to the Oriental Gold Co.
The Goods ordered will be sent at once. If they are >t
approved they may be returned per first post after del v •/
uninjured, and we will, according to the wish of the custo ,
either substitute another article to same value, or
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN FULL,
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charges.
Thus: Suppose you want a Brooch —you describe, as no
as possible, the sort of pattern you prefer, or you leave i.,.‘
choice entirely to us, and you remit, say 10s.
We endeavour to match your description, if sent, or hi .. y
case we do our best to please and satisfy you.
On receiving the Brooch, or other article, if you don’t ent., ’ v
like the pattern or style, write by first mail explaining in w i i
respect you would like it to differ—returning the Brooch i
the same good order as you received it —thereupon we will
try again, and send a second one to same value.
Or, if you don’t like the first Brooch at all, and want j ir
money back, we will send back the full sum, less the po.. 1
outlay incurred.
We make this pledge in all seriousness, although w h
somethin? of a light heart; because, although we have I
thousands of orders by post on same terms, during i’ii
four years we have been in business at our present address —
474 GEORGE ST,,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE SINGJ.E
ARTICLE RETURNED!
Customers will save themselves a good deal of trouble w'.i *n
they desire to have a choice among numerous patterns, by
ordering a sample parcel and sending on the money for same
I We then send a variety, each article of which is marked vi'h
its price, and the customer selects one or more articles, and
returns the rest, whereupon we send back the balance of the
money by next post.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
American buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
ip **
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
•SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
Emnxiira.
2 7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
A.
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
]'to; rietor and Manager ... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Cci.oral Business Manager ... Mr. A. L. Cunard.
769 NIGHTS 769
And still the leading attraction of the city.
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
in conjunction with the RAYNOR BROTHERS.
T.emendous success of our Burlesque Opera,
IJCREZIA BORGIA.
T > IDGWAY’S PAVILION OF VARIETIES.
I \; Belmore Park.
Tlio WORLD-RENOWNED RIDGWAY FAMILY,
In conjunction with
HERBERT’S and FITZGERALD’S MAMMOTH
CIRCUS.
3090 People witnessed the First Performance on
Saturday Evening. 3000 could not get admission.
THE LARGEST, BEST, AND MOST COMPLETE
SHOW EVER SEEN IN SYDNEY.
The Same Programme This Evening.
Doors open at 7.45 ; Overture at 8 o’clock.
Prices of Admission. —Private Boxes, containing
4 chairs, 155.; Extra Chairs, 3s. each; Reserved
Scats, 35.; Stalls with chairs, 25.; Gallery, Is.;
Ch.ldren half-price, gallery excepted.
Box Plan open daily at Pavilion entrance.
Proprietor ... ... ... Mr. G. Ridgway.
Equestrian Director... ... Mr. Robt. Johnson.
Badness Manager ... ...Mr. H. F. Wachsmuth.
YNCH
I
Manager
J
FAMILY BELLRINGERS.
(Organised, 1867.)
Mr. Harry Lynch.
SYDNEY ARRANGEMENTS:
School of Arts, Burwood—Monday, 27th September
School of Arts, Asbfield—Tuesday, 28th ~
Albert Hall, Petersham —Wednesday, 29th ~
Oddfellows’ Hall, Waverley—Thursday, 30th ~
11a ,onic Hall, St. Leonards —Friday, Ist October.
r £ HIE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY
J and HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
First Australian Tour. Great Success Every-
where.
Caadelo —Fri. and Sat.. Sept. 24, 25.
\ ,'Humla —Mon., Sept. 27. Pambula, Tues. 28.
Wyndham, Bombala, Nimitybelle, Cooma, to
follow.
Prices of Admission —45., 35., 2s.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
T £ HE above Hall is now the most completely-
. I furnished and popular place of amusement
no. Hi of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
find Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons; also return visits in this
11 all.
For terms—Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
\\” J. HOLLOWAY
\ ' • and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
sir, ported by their especially selected Company,
in
" A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
lb >ken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“ iuch Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
8.C., &c.
O.’ERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WIIITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
I NSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing
.I Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
tonus, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
F>M. R I L E
-* • (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
coud.lential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
Uivuir. , libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
-1 ,iun md others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
in ■ rn.. ,e, or death, obtained in any part of the world
1 .enib .nd debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in me Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
3v .v /.ealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
V l i m, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
< x;»-i,tion and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
pr.imptly attend to all business entrusted to h care.
N
V\r JOHNSO
> • COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Ca.Y.j, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spi. it Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
There's a magic in the art, and a pleasure in it too,
Just buy yourself a Camera, fry what you can do;
It's not now what it was in the old collodion days,
It's a harmless, healthy, cleanly, and economic way.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the xetuner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
Ldfor] 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
[Catalogues.
HENRY LANCASTER,
IRON
Watzfr CAR 71,
’ZZ7
not affected
BY WEATHER
A
|cA
JlfiEi
CH^
TROU
5 CANNOT BE BROKEN
/ G/ST/FRA/*y
/»a//vs£>,
X CA
£ CALVAN/S&D -jA
-v/y
f
limMlll
HOT WATER
nnin iinimmg
CYLINDER I
STRONG jfOC TfrOUC
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
9^
mufnnnTf Treacle
REEL/VfRS
/e S 5B
■o-
ft
V Golden Syrup/
AND
ANUFACTURERS
nmntminmntunutnnm
HEAD OFFICE & FACTORY. NEWTOWN
Branch. Georoe ST Sydney.
S)
&
0
H
H"< v
5.
ƒd
OOT
/V]
Shoe Bazaar
252 a George S t
lale. PecUe ancl/ /farcvurl' SyDNJEV
fd
Barry’s Tricopherous.
Guaranted to make the
hair grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER,
The original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Government. Put up in three
sizes.
Sole Wholesale agents:
S. HOPFNUFG and CO.,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Co
PATENT
LLS
P
4$
©
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite., short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &e. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
lone it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
jarnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
.hey will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
is a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
.pen all obstructions, and bring about all that is
equired. No female should be without them. There
s no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
?ILL-S for removing any obstruction or irregularity
if the system. If taken according to the directions
•pven with each box they will soon restore females of
ill ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
lisorders of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a
Jew doses wili be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
ippetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
>f health the whole physical energy of the human
fame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
unbracing all classes of society; and one of the!
jest guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent,
nedicine in the world.
3EECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS..
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma; Diffi-
;ulty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness)
md Oppression of the Chest, Tfheezing, &e., these!
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labsuring under
my of the above complaints need only try One Box;
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the;
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty-
jf breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those-
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled,
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s.
Con oh Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he.
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that-
•he words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
[f not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
JJ OLLOWAY’S
pills.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of the LTV!
and STOMACH, they may be used with perfect confide,
by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is a suaran
of their efficacy. Thousands of testimonials, from minces
peasants, attest their marvellous virtues
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st ' Lonffi
BSF Purchasers should look to the label on the Boxes a
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London th
are spurious. *


MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIB
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
o and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world- renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
.Trade Mark—“ White Rose'' on “ Golden ,
Bn Eyre.” A
dfg
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Che ap
JOHN HANKS
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES
10 s
l/A l
fO*
Trow
alchemists
1NI0&2OOZ BOT s
WHOLESALE AGEMT
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will he found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
“The Chinese Church at Botany is making great strides." —Sydney Daily Paper.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Miss Blanche: “Wouldn’t you say, Mr. Bow-
string, that Mr. Highnote has a falsetto voice?”
Mr. Bowstring: “Well, I don’t know, Miss
Blanche, as I should say quite that; but I know
that he has a false set o’ teeth, and does not wear
one of those beautiful and stylish £3 3s. suits, to
measure, cut by one of the eight high-class cutters
employed by Summerfield and Company, the great
juvenile outfitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
nf C wS°w- of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanneys Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patoomsed by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard 1
rjIHE BANK OP NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
A 61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROY AT, ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maroaret-street. Wvnward sqttare. Sydney
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes oan possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder ; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
Ph D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now be also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard?
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
deoorated with flag and floral decorations, 601 Hunter-street
Sydney. *
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard'?
CALLED BACK.
The busy throng in Pitt-street is called back to
gaze with wonder at the beautiful display of Spring
goods in the windows of Summerfield and Company.
The well-known excellence of our boys’ clothing,
the pretty designs and moderate prices need no
comment. For big boys and youths, we are show-
ing a very superior line of long trousers suits at
18s. 6d. and 21s. Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
THE MERCANTILE BAH OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K. C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory ■ - - Waverley.
&T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
UMBRKLLAS
KE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Anything yon require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Everybody
SHOULD USE
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 Georqe-street, Sydney.
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEOKGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 1/6. 9/6. 12/6. il/6, *l/, *5/. SO/.
4S/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ - - Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35
...
o
Jflomuram
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6.15/-, 20/-, 25/-. 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
COMETS
at 40/-, 5.0/-, 75/-. 105/-, 130/-
to £lB.
fgdfd
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Coooa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/-
n\
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra times, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
£3T Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
£5
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager*


fd
W.[H. PALING & CO.
LIMMITED
356 GEORGE-ST,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best Selected
STOCK OF
PIANOS, ORGANS,
AND
MUSIC.
Best Makers, Lowest Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT STSTEM
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Appliction.
W.H. PALING & CO.
356 George-st., Sydney.
m
WHOLESALE MANUFACTURIftfc
fdg
CONFECTIONER
4-ZOfiwroe JK
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near Erskine ST
C&s\44 <MV OM*>t*U*A
TV OR OCR Oft SHORTEST notice .
»3o O t>
Counthy A SmrrtHC Okoeks ATTSUfj
S(ftO\)NTCAST !■£<? SO/i/$
'MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY i
'•»»*! i:: T! r ini— 1 1 1 I
NEWESTSHAPES.
ii'MAnd>t QUEENiSTREET, BRISBANE.
F
H
o
R
B
I
A
jTi
The
i) Qu^4^acuß^FGß
!ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
JjT H O M A
EO v ONLY BY ryC
s Ingham Y*
KHAM PTON,
7
i
j
B
A
%
Co
'v
fA
A
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout, selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
■A ihur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot he excelled. To be procured everywhere.
KUIGWIN & HARSTON, Sole Agents.
fg
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
[Fire-proof Briars. 1 [Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker
I Little Lollins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
MALTINE.
malted barley, wheat and oats.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3tn hntflps
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular an£ fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.” °
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd P Jh in most persons of thin habit
Highly recommended for delacite f em ies , weak aud debmtated
children and infants, and tor mot .ers whilst nursind
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.*
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
JJebihty &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe
maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
tor Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcases that will not readily yield to this preparation
Maltine with Hypophosphites IS most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softeuing of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronrhitis r«rmdßc
Colds, and difficult Expectoration. * ronc ™™’ Coughs,
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Ood Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strveh-
mne a most powerful aud nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phpsphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
bramS and those of se dentary habits, suffering from General
Maltine With Alteratives is a remedy of the highest val le in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, Ac.
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUPACTUhING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Gent. Oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
btomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy
oea sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Reef, Wheat, and Milk
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef
or similar productions. ’
™fv? Crib ? d i an , d r , eco “ me “ d ed by all leading Physicians, and used in the
-argest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
N
Design for a Ladies’ Ulster-Button.
DR. GEORGE ON LEE,
31 CARLTON TERRACE,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
WILL see patients September 11 at Goulburn;
16th, see Patients at Queanbeyan ; 22nd,
see patients at Broughton Creek ; 26th, see patients
at Dubbo ; 30th, see patients at Bourke ; 31st re-
turn to Sydney.
—— ... ... ... ... lUU
Starters, £lOO j Non-Starters, £lOO ] to be divided
amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1886.
2000 Sbbscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse 300
Third Horse 200
Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tiekets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,”
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales
care of J. P. T.
135 King-street,
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Said he: “ I’ye been married thirty years and
ever given my wife one cross word.”
That s because you never dared to, uncle,” said
a little nephew; “if you had auntie would have
made you hop.” Silence fell upon the circle, until
tlw red-bewle*! servan t girl came in and remarked
that the boy had better put on his new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit that had just arrived from
bummerfield and Company, the Great Juvenile
Out fitters 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who ia Marie Brizard ?
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Marie Brizard? Who ia Marie Brizard?
A MAN REPORTED MISSING
Is worae than dead to his friends and relatives, but if a man
’i 8 . ,ng Bell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters he
win always be his own m aster and never be missing, a miss-
ing man nine times out of ten wanders away when out of his
mma, and nothing effects the brain more quickly than
kidney, liver and urinary troubles.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS.
Extract from Sydney Sunday News :—
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of ‘ Democrat’s ’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, but in ‘ Democrat’s ’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of ‘ Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion.”
Several other newspapers have borne similar
testimony to the genuineness of “ Democrat’s ”
consultations.
MAMMOTH CONSULTATION
MELBOURNE CUP of 1886.
7500 subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £5OOO
Second Horse ... 1000
Third Horse ” 500
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All Democrat s ’ consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
and respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. t.
Cauldfield, 136 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TOZB KEDAH,!
S&3E KfiLEW, WKto cal BWCCIST*,
ƒ
BOSTON, fB6O.
VIENNA, 1878.
PHIL*.., 187^
mmmrs
•LA BELUBLE
Peerless
Gloss.
I necessity ii erery
family. It blacks aid
polishes Ladies' am)
Children’s
Shoes, Bubhers and
Satchels, wit I out
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is concaded to 89
"THE SUIDIBD.”
C.L.HAUTHAWAYftGONS,
181 * 233 Congress Street, Sorts*
MAM.. U.d.A
o
dfg
(jfy
S'
6i°
RU
W
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
11',,'.,
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE, CONVENIENCE
ECONOMY.
OS’ THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves abour,
stationery, and time, writing much faster than expert pen-
men, and condensing matter to less than one-half the space
occupied by pen writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in
the usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants, bankers,
solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors, reporters, and all
men of business should use the type-writer and save much
valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents, .. ~i
IMRAY & CO., him
110 Kent-street.
RAW VASELINE.
A
rX°RSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
r Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
C Bu Sgy Harness, Ladies’ and
S 8 Saddles, Spurs, and: all kinds of
Saddlers Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
•04 popu944u' jfßdmojd saapjQ AißinoQ
senSopsq'BQ
ASNGAS iLHSHLIg LLIcI 805 ‘HGYOHV 2009
SJOQWAfI WVIIH/K
4U A\.9lA UO Ss[oog; AAA ( /)/S
puuifpuooog puu MO IV T sawnßOA 000
poguuqoxa; JO ‘pjog ‘qqSnog
sxooa sNooa -sx<ioa
m
0
rv
$
*
on


Bismarck lias intimated to Russia that, so far as Germany is concerned,
fihe is perfectly free to take her own course with respect to the Turco-Billgarikii
business." — Da ibj Payer.
RUSSIAN PEAR (soliloquises): “ HE AS MUCH AS ASKS ME TO GO
OVER THE WALL. SO 1 WOULD, IF, LIKE HIM, I COULD
SEE WHO WAS AT THE OTHER SIDE."
THE EUROPEAN SITUATION.


SUPPLEMENT TO “THE BULLETIN."
NOTES ON THE RANDWICK SPRING
MEETING.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1886.
This week we present our sporting
readers with a sketch of the Sydney Derby
winner, Trident, whose phenomenal perform
.ance on Saturday last stamps him as th
greatest equine wonder that has ever graced any
racecourse in the Southern hemisphere ; indeed
we may safely assert without fear of contradiction
that his “gallop” has never been excelled in any
.part of the world. The hero in question first saw
light at the once famous Terrara breeding estab
lishment presided over by one of New South
Wales pillars of the turf, Mr. E. De Mestre. As
is pretty well known, Trident is by Robinson
Crusoe, a descendant of old Fisherman, from the
imported mare, Cocoanut. In colour he is a haze
■chestnut, with a small white stripe down the
forehead ; the near hind leg is also white fron
just below the hock down to the hoof, and on the
near fore foot, too, a small circle of white hair is
visible. When a yearling, Trident was sold a
Newmarket, Victoria, at the October sales held
by Messrs. W. C. Yuille and Co., the purchaser
of the colt being his present owner, the Hon. Jas
White, who secured him at the extremely low
figure of 800 guineas. His first appearance in
public was at the Randwick Summer meeting
1885, wherein he foretold his goodness by comfort-
ably winning the Christmas Gift—a weight-for
age event run over the ten-furlong course, his
immediate followers being Kathleen, and thai
.sterling good filly, Crossfire. Journeying, to
Flemington we next find him running third to
Maddelina in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, six fur
longs; and subsequently second to the same
smart filly in the All Aged Stakes over the
mile course. The colt’s defeat twice in sue
•cession by Maddelina did not impress close ob
servers of Derby aspirants with any too much
confidence in Trident, the almost unanimous
opinion being that he could not ripen into a stayer.
But in justice to him it may here he stated that
■during his sojourn at Flemington he was subjected
.to rather severe treatment by the farrier,
which necessitated his being confined to
his loose-box for over a week. This un-
fortunate circumstance of course interfered with
his preparation, and at one time Mr. Fennelly
despaired of getting him to the post at all; luckily,
however, the colt mended rapidly, and started in the
two events quoted above, but had everything pro-
gressed favourably with him we are confident in
the assertion that his winning record as a two-
year-old would have been richer than it is, by two
points. At the conclusion of the V. R. C. Autumn
Meeting, Trident, in company with the Leger and
■Champion Race winner, Matchlock, and the re-
mainder of Mr. Fennelly’s charges, returned to
Randwick. The Autumn meeting of the Austra-
lian Jockey Club served to introduce the Derby
victor to our notice again, the event being
(the rich Sires’ Produce Stakes. It is now a matter
of history how Trident, without the support of the
stable—which pinned their colours to Acme-
swooped down and defeated another loose-box
companion in Tamarisk, together with the Queens-
land-bred colt My Lord, Chesham, and others.
But he failed to concede ten pounds to Blairgowrie
in the Champagne Stakes, and finished unplaced,
and only managed to secure third honours to the
pony-wonder, Cerise and Blue, in the All Aged
Stakes of one mile. Thus it will be seen that he
.started six times as a two-year-old, winning twice,
•once second, third twice, and was once unplaced
—a most meritorious record. Independent
of the brilliant victory achieved by Trident on
Saturday, and his prospects of further success-
reference to which is made in another column—
the result has a particular charm for those of our
sporting community who delight to linger over
pedigrees. Neither is it confined to those only,
but the old school of race-goers will par-
ticipate in the enjoyment of a chat over the
doings at Randwick of Trident’s blood relations
in the ancestral line. Briefly referring to the latter,
it may be remarked as an item worthy of notice
that Robinson Crusoe, sire of Trident, was led
back to scale a winner of this self-same event in
1876, exactly 10 years ago ; while another of the
same family, Richmond, did similar performance
a year previously ; and in 1877 Woodlanas, also a
grandson of old Fisherman, perpetuated the name
by his brilliant overthrow of the mighty Chester.
Six years after Robinson Crusoe’s victory, his
black son, Navigator, appropriated the Derby for
Mr. De Mestre ; then again, in 1881, Tamarisk’s
half-brother, Bargo, a son of Maribyrnong, carried
the Hon. James White’s colours to victory. But
perhaps the most important, and at the same time
most sensational event annexed at Randwick by
any horse claiming Fisherman blood, was in 1867
when Fishhook, a full brother to Angler, and sire
of Trident, defeated Mr. John Tait’s wonderful
black horse, The Barb, in the St. Leger Stakes.
We well remember the excitement that prevailed
and the wordy warfare, accompanied by torrents
of abuse and innuendos that permeated the whole
racing community for the time being ; but any
further reference to them is not required here. A
few words only will suffice to prove the excellence
of Trident’s breeding. His dam, Cocoanut, was
bred in England in 1866, so that at the time she
produced Trident, she was in her seventeenth year;
while Robinson Crusoe had reached his
tenth year. The sire of Cocoanut was Nut-
bourne, who was by The Nabob out of Prin-
cess, by the Merry Monarch, out of Queen Char-
lotte, and traces back to the bluest of blue-blood
strains. If any further proof were required of the
value of Cocoanut’s strain, we may, in drawing
this brief notice to a conclusion, point out for the
benefit of breeders that Winterlake, the sire of the
South Australian-bred mare Sandal (unhappily
both are now defunct), was also by Nutbourne,
from Whiteface, whose dam, Nan Darrell, was a
grand-daughter of Blacklock, while Miss Vivian,
dam of Cocoanut, was a grand-daughter of Sir
Hercules (by Whalebone) and Evasion. Nothing
need he said of the sire.
The tabulated pedigree of Trident will be
perused with interest by searchers for and admirers
of a highly-bred animal: —
Oh. h. TRIDENT, 1883.
Winner of A.J.C, Derby Stakes, 1886.
Fisherman
Heron
Bnsiun!, by vnairei —Orville mare
s
Main brace*
Sheet Anehoi, by Lottery.— Huy Middleton mare
3
3
Marchioness
(Imp.)
Melbourne
Humphrey Clinker, by Cornua.—Cervantes mare
U
(Jinisu'Ui
TinicliRti.Do — Brocade, by Pantaloon
5
r
stuchweii
The Duron
Birdcatoher, by Sir Hercules, - -Echidna by Economist
3
o
iT
Pociiti'jnbis
Glencoe, by Sultan.— Mnrpeasa. by Mtlley
£»
Juliet (imp.)
Touohstouu
Camel. Iiy Whalebone.— Banter. by Master Henry
Lancashire Witch
Tomboy, lay defy -Kite, by Bustard
C
The Nabob
The Xob
Ghtueus, tiy 1'aTtisun;— Qctsye, tiy Kmilius
c
Hester
Camel.— Monimiu. Ivy Muley
J
Princess
Merry Monarch
HUne. Iiy RoyalOufc. —The Margravine, by Little Jnbi
Queer Charlotte
Flis, by Langur. —Charlotte West., by Tramp
a
Raule
Fallow Hack
Venison, by Partisan — Plenary, by Emilius
2
The Humble
Camel.— Fanny, by Whisker
>
n
Sir Hercules
Whalebone, by Waxy.— l’eri, by Wanderer
S
■Subterfuge
FVtwion
Kruibus, I)? Orville —Variation, by Bustard
The accompanying table shows the classical
events in which Trident is engaged during the
present racing season :
1 V
o
Him.
5
Wcishtv
ut‘ Uunning.
A..1C. Second Foul!
Stakes.. .. !({■ iqIIm
OaulttrUl uutnciHj . 1 mile
V.K.C Derby BtnJto.q.. 1mile
‘V.It.i '.Mmvw lYodbor
Hta least .. 11 mile
V K.O. St. LejjerSUi.keij'lS mile
i 132 yds
A-.I.C. St. LojjcrStii.lii K mile
3st- Gib.
Sat. Mb.
Sat. lOlb.
8*t. 1Q1K
Set. 101m
Sst, JOil).
riimsi.bi.y, Scji. 3;)
Saturday, Ocr. 9
Saturday, Out. 39.
Saturday, Nov. 6.
Hut., Feb. 26, 1867.
* Winner of V.R.C. Derby has to carry 71b. extra.
Favoured with “Darby Day” weather,
there was an unusually large concourse of specta-
tors within and without the Randwick enclosures
on Saturday last. The whole surroundings were
seen at their best save that the lawn, although
not actually as bare as marble, did not wear that
verdant tinge we have been so accustomed to
meet with at Randwick race meetings, especially
on the opening day. We do not mind the running
track or carriage paddock; neither should we
object for one moment to walking about ankle-
deep in dust in our attempts to “ take the book-
makers down,” or be treated in the same gentle
operation ourselves. It is not our intention to
attempt to describe the dresses worn by the ladies.
We had made extensive and elaborate preparations
for so doing, but, in the language of heads of
racing establishments, we here exclaim : “That
we have been forestalled by the Sunday Times.”
We take the defeat, and frankly admit that the
flowery language introduced in their description
of Lady Carington’s rig-out is far beyond us, we
cannot get near it; we are distanced, we are dis-
graced, we are short-weight, we are disqualified ;
in fact, we are electrified, magnified, stupified,
and expire gracefully.
* * *
The afternoon’s racing opened with the
time-honoured Hurdle Race, for which a
field of 15 started. We are willing to accept all
risks in stating that with the exception of one,
the actual winner, a more miserable field never
before possessed cheek enough to face the starter
and run for such a prize. Amongst the lot, too,
were the Victorian horses, Goodwood, Sultan, and
Buzza, neither of which could win a hurdle race
in their own country with as many pounds on
their backs as they were allotted stones here.
Goodwood, perhaps, is a trifle better than the rest,
for he has the redeeming feature of being able to
negotiate big timber ; that is ability enough to
win over Randwick with the fields that are met
with there as a rule. Buzza is entitled to sympa-
thy because he is a cripple, and never likely to be
anything else ; but even were he ever so sound
and well, hurdle-racing is not his game. We
were surprised to see old Belle Brandon finish so
near the front —indeed we cannot solve the con-
nundrum how she got round at all, for she stripped
a wreck only of her former self. Caloola’s vic-
tory, or rather Caloola’s trot round the course
and over the hurdles, should, at any rate, con-
vince the Messrs. Lee that they made a grave
error in not having a cut in for the Grand
National Hurdle Race at Melbourne in July. We
have always held the opinion, and still hold it,
that Caloola is the very best hurdle racehorse in
Australia at the present moment. Admirers of
The Agent are loud in their expressions of belief
as to his infallibility with anything at level
weights, but we are more than sceptical of his
ability to defeat Caloola. Probably it has never
yet struck those admirers of the handsome little
chesnut, that in all his contests he has
never yet met anything many steps above
mediocrity, with the exception of Sheet
Anchor and Gasalier. The former will not
jump hurdles, but the latter ran him to a
length in a weight for age event at Flemington.
The Trial Stakes was so much wrecked tlia
out of an original entry of twenty only nine crie(
content when the summons-bell to weigh out wa
rung. We were very favourably impressed witl
the action of the brown colt Blue Blood, who
however, requires time to mature. The Wreck
was installed a warm favourite, and should have
won easily enough had any judgment been usee
in piloting him. As it was, however, it appearec
to be a tussle between the colt and thccoxswain, anc
the colt prevailing when once in the straight his
chance of victory was wrecked —and so were the
backers. N o doubt the colt is a very difficult one to
ride, and on this account there is some excuse
for the boy. A word of praise is due young
Huxley, brother to the deceased jockey, for his
riding of Neophyte. The stable were not at al
sweet upon their chance of winning, and allowec
the filly to go out unbacked, but the public fol-
lowed the colours and landed their dollars.
* * *
Important an event as the Derby was, it
can be described in a few words. It was simply
Trident first, the rest nowhere. Such was the
actual result, although Blairgowrie and King
fish were second and third; and should the
stable decide to stand the same colt for the
V.R.C., Derby, and make up their minds to sup
port him for a substantial stake —which no doubt
they will do —their acceptance of even money
about his winning is wholy and solely due to the
exhibition Hales made of his field at the finish.
We shall not be surprised if the books asked 2 anc
3 to 1 on Trident if he sees the post, and, as a
matter of fact, it resolves itself into that question
it is not 7 to 6 against Trident for the V.R.C.
Derby, it is simply 7 to 6 against Trident going to
the post. We feel justified in remarking thal
Hales miscalculated the future position of the colt
in the betting-market by winning so easily. Had
he been satisfied with a half-length, or even a
length win, the books would have been induced
to pencil against him at something like reasonable
odds ; but now the murder is out —they are a
pretty shrewd school, and nothing will convince
them that anything else has a thousand to one
show of defeating Trident. Yet we can hardly
blame Hales for erring on the right side,
for the reason that his past experience has taught
him that waiting for his stable-companion to come
back to him too ofhru proves disastrous
* * *
Blairgowrie’s trainer stated publicly that
he would run the distance in 2min. iOsec., or
under, and he was quite right, as the colt got
home a trifle under 2min. Exception has
been taken by some people, who profess to be
judges, to Robertson’s horsemanship. They say
that Blairgowrie was pulling his head off from
the start to the five-furlong post, and that Alec,
should have indulged him a little. For our part,
we think that Robertson rode him without fault,
and respecting his final effort, we never saw him
to better advantage. But it is just possible that
the pockets and not the opinions were speaking.
* * *
We are not alone in the opinion that the
noblest looking Roman of the quintette was the
well-bred Kingfish; and if a Divine Providence
purposes upsetting the calculations of Christian
backers, and once more asserting that the yid-
dishers are the chosen race, this is the channel
through which the said delivery must come. But
Kingfish is terribly backward in condition, and
requires bustling along in real earnest to be ready
for the Y.R.C. Derby. He ran an excellent race
on Saturday last, and it was condition only, pure
and simple, that enabled Blairgowrie to deprive
him of second money. Of his gameness their can
be no doubt whatever, and even at this period we
prophesy that Kingfish’s defeat of Blairgowrie in
the Y.R.C. Derby is as certain as is Trident’s
absolute victory.
* * *
The two last events on the programme call
for no special comment beyond the fact that in the
Spring Stakes Crossfire split her hoof, and Trenton
pulled up dreadfully lame. The feature of the
Welter Handicap was the performance of Meteor,
who, with the crusher of lOst. Hbs. in the saddle,
ran a great second to Industry with 7st. That
Meteor would have won had he been able to get
through his field every person present will admit,
and it must also be borne in mind that half-a-mile
from home he hurt his shoulder ; and to add still
further to his troubles the bridle came off below
the Leger Stand. It is a thousand pities such a
really brilliant horse should meet with such an un-
fortunate accident, more especially at this time of
the year when so many rich prizes were within
his grasp. We were also anxiously looking for-
ward to his meeting Trident in the Melbourne
Cup in which the pair would have had a hard
struggle for mastery. But our hopes and our cash
are scattered to the wind.
* ’ *
After Trident’s creditable victory in the
Derby on Saturday enquires were made about him
for the more important V.R.C. event. No money
was obtainable, of course, and it would be highly
interesting to know what are the actual odds that
he does|not repeat the Martini-Henry performance.
We have always maintained that a first-class
three-year-old has invariably the best of the
weights in the big two-mile race at Melbourne.
Last year it will be remembered that Nordenfeldt
got home for Sydney Derby with nothing in hand, and
at Melbourne he defeated First Chester by an eye-
lash. In the race for the Melbourne Cup he
finished close up fourth after being interfered
with all the way home, from the turn into the
straight running. If Nordenfeldt, who although
a consistent plodder, was not by any means a
brilliant horse, could get so near the front rank in
the fastest run two-mile Cup on record in Austra-
lia, what must Trident’s prospects of success be
worth ? On the other hand, it will be well for
backers and layers not to allow the Bargo affair
to escape their notice.
* * *
The meeting held last week by the Austra-
lian Jockey Club to consider the question of early
two-year-old racing terminated, as we anticipated
it would, in nothing being done. With the ex-
ception of our legislators we never listened to a
worse lot of debaters, both pro. and con.
Mr. Henry Austin, the mover (as far as
the public know) in the affair, utterly failed to
prove his case. He produced nothing to show
that what he wanted done was worth doing. No
statistics, in fact, nothing at all but a conceived
notion, happily restricted to a very few, that
buyers of yearlings shall not do what they like with
their own property. Mr. Austin would have shown
to better advantage had he informed the meeting
of his intention to lay out a few thousand pounds
in yearling stock and not race them until they
were three-year-olds.
* * *
Was it bad luck, or bad judgment ? Mr.
W. Cooper was once the owner of Lord William
and sold him to William Duggan, the trainer.
Directly the colt changed hands, he won a race at
Rosehill. Mr. W. Cooper sold Cairo in Melbourne
for £75, and purchased Solo in this colony for
something like £lOO. The first time the pair met
at Randwick Cairo proved the winner. Mr. W,
Cooper gave £2325 for Trenton a month or two
ago. The first time the big gun meets the cast-off
two-year-old the latter runs a dead-heat with
Crossfire, and Trenton hobbles in last as lame as
the proverbial cat.
* * #■
We regret to learn from M. O’Brien, the
popular and accomplished professional horseman,
that he does not intend riding in any races at the
present meeting of the A.J.C. Although looking
well he has not recovered from the effects of his
fall from Rapid recently at Randwick.
In our happy ignorance we rejoiced in the
belief that the Victorian Selling Plater, Mabel
Gray, recently purchased by Joe Thompson, be-
longed to the “ weaker ” sex. But we are wrong
if the Melbourne Sportsman (what’s in a name)
be correct. In describing a race ran at the last
Moonee Valley meeting, the beautiful Mabel is
returned as a “ b.g.,” which we take it means
bay gelding. But really that is nothing out of
the way for the Melbourne Sportsman, for it is
on record in the same journal from the pen of the
corpulent “ Vigilant” that L. L. Smith’s horse,
“ Dougalston, was added to the list, and put to
the stud.” What a happy coincidence. Let us
suggest that the b.g., Mabel Gray, and the added
to the list, Dougalston, be mated ; the pair might
jointly assist in producing a youngster that would
astonish the universe.
Not a Metrop. crowd by any means ap-
peared at Randwick on Tuesday last to see the
big money run for. Possibly the weather was in
some degree answerable for this, as clouds ominous
of rain drifted through the sky at noon; still
Weather apart, the attendance was not so great
as might reasonably have been expected. Only
one shower fell during the afternoon, and it was
not much more than sufficient to lay the
dust. The 12,000 or so who did venture out
were well repaid for their trouble, as each
of the three best finishes of the after-
noon were alone worth going out to see.
The big race plunged most of the Sydney con-
tingent into deep mourning, for Bohemian was
not much supported by sports hailing from this
side of the border. The Jewel’s backers had but
little reason to blame their judgment or to censure
the performance of their favourite, for the finish
between the Jewel and Bohemian was one of the
best this race has ever produced. Coming clear
away from their field at the distance the pair
settled down to a regular Beach-Gaudaur struggle,
and had not the Jewel changed legs in the last
few strides the verdict would probably have been
in his favour. New South Welshmen may find
some consolation for the fact that the stakes go to
Victoria in the consideration that Bohemian (who
is by Maribyrnong from Nina, by Kingston from
Ghiva, by Velocity from Atalanta) was bred by
Mr. Andrew Town, of Hobartville, near Rich-
mond, and is, therefore, a N.S.W. horse in all but
the essential point of present ownership. Another
desperate finish was the dead-heat between that
constant filly Crossfire, and the Hon. James White’s
Tamarisk, Acme the third starter, who cut out the
running in the early part of the journey, being
third, ten lengths away. Yetman only managed
to get home a neck ahead of Matador in the Rich-
mond Stakes, the favourite Sumatra, who was the
last to leave the post, running into fourth place.
Corday beat Myall King by two lengths in the
Squatters’ Handicap; My Lord, a hot favourite,
got home a long head in front of Hogmanay fo,
the Shorts ; and Industry made a half-length win
of the Spring Maiden. The time for the Metrop.,
3m. 31|sec., has only been beaten twice; by Acolyte
last year, who did the trip in 3m. 31j.sec., and by
Pontiff, who in ’BO was sent to cut out the running
for his stable mate Democrat, and led from start
to finish, covering the distance in 3m. 31 6-10 see.
Taken all through, the books, did not have very
happy times, the winners in four of fihe events
being very fairly supported.
The Prince of Wales, it is cabled, pro-
poses the establishment of a permanent Colonial
and Indian Institute. The Bulletin, on the
| authority of a London correspondent, predicted
this proposal weeks ago, and indicated the two
distinguished persons who would benefit most
thereby.
An English paper having railed at Queen
Victoria for having practically turned Presbyterian
and received the Communion from a Dissenter, a
Scotchman writes to the editor:—“The Queen
must be a Protestant, but not by any means an
Episcopalian, hence, when here, she may—indeed,
ought to—give the Presbyterians a turn, and when
she does she is not receiving the Communion from
a Dissenter, but the Established Church. It is
vour aristocratic Anglican Church that is the
Dissenter in Scotland. Presbyterianism is not all
it should be, but I have yet to learn tha t it is in-
ferior to the Anglican Church which, in my opinion
is the most rotten institution under heaven,
Presbyterians don’t buy and sell livings like pigs
at an auction, nor do they pay Bishops £15,000 a
year for doing little, and give their hard-working
curate the pay of a journeyman blacksmith ; nor
do they accept Protestant State Pay and preach
Popery, nor are they such ignoramuses as to allow
one Clergyman to hold three livings at say £l,OOO
each, live on the Continent, and pay three curates
£lOO a year each for doing his work, nor do we
believe in Apostolic succession ! The idea of your
coach-and-four and footmen-and-flunkey-attended
Bishops being the successors of the poor fisher-
men ! No, sir ! we may be ignoramuses in some
things, but we cannot believe that.”


WILLIAM WILKINS—A BALLAD OF LOVE
AND MONEY
William Wilkins was a merchant, one who pros-
pered very well . n , , , .
By mixing foreign matter with the goods he had to
sell: , . , „
He ran a store in Sydney, did the subject ot oui
rhyme,
The date’s of no importance—it was once upon
a time.”
The merchant, deep in commerce, ever piling up
the pelf, ,
Had treasured up this maxim, and applied it o
himself :
“ No man should ever marry till lie s getting on m
life
So, at something after fifty, William thought about
a wife.
He was earnest in this matter, as in all he under-
(For ne'er a man in Sydney better understood his
book), ,
Mrs. Wilkins, he determined, should be every-
thing that’s nice—
The very best obtainable in ladies at the price.
After many reconnoitres in the theatres and
arcades, „ ~
Quong Tart’s and other places where assemble
pretty maids, . . ~
Our William felt persuaded that the nicest girl he d
Was a dainty pet rejoicing in the name of Mary
Green.
Oh, the merry eye of Mary ! it was full of fun and
Her ankle, too, was all the keenest critic could
desire ;
The heart of William Wilkins very soon was m a
blaze, _ .... , „
And ho started mashing Mary Jin a multitude of
ways.
Now, a wealthy single merchant, you will gener-
ally find,
Can make a deep impression on the simple spin-
ster mind; .
So we wonder not that Mary, m a very little
while, ...
Learned to show her teeth at William in a modest
maiden smile.
He called her “popsy-wopsy,” “lovey-dovey,”
“ pretty thing,”
He always fetched her music when she sat her
down to sing, .
And when at length he ventured on a ponderous
caress
She referred him to her mother, with a hesitating
“ Yes.”
Then a happy swain was William, and a happy
girl was she ,
(As all engag-ert couples are —or, rather, ought to
t)e)
The hours seemed but moments as the bridal day
drew near,
When —pardon us |for pausing while we, chase
a briny tear—
The merchant, foolish fellow ! brought his'Mary
dowrn one day, „ . .
And showed her round warehouse in a patronis-
ing way H-i!I 1 1 U ‘-G&
She was looking fat the fixtures, and expressing
her surprise, _ . .
When she saw a smart assistant with a pair ot
wicked eyes.
That dashing young assistant [J’twas’as Mr. Noah
Jinks,
His master introduced him) gave her many loving
winks, !
And all regard forJWilli m 4 her fickle oosom
fled — ’
Mary formed a sudden ,fancy for. the other :hap
mstead.
Thought Mary, “What a';'pit~ that to William
I’m engaged, _
For Noah looks much nicer and.he s not so nnddle-
The very type of fe ow it'were ecstas to mash —
I’d marry him to-morrow, if it wasn’t for the
cash.’j _
The old’un never “tumbled” what was passing
in her mind, .
For love, as poets tell us, is invariably blind ,
Her manner seemed more tender than it ever yet
had been —
Oh, an artful little fairy was this merry Mary
Green!
But, ere a week was over, she had hit upon a
scheme
By means of which she realised her sentimental
dream.
She coyly said to Wilkins—“lf your passion is
sincere,
You’ll settle on your Mary (say) a thousand pounds
a year.”
‘ My darling,” he responded, “it is done as soon
as said;
I’ll bring you home the document the day before
we wed —
To let you see, my pansy, what a lot I thin of
you,
Instead of just a thousand, we will make it into
two.”
Said Mary, “Make it over to mein my maiden
name;” ,
The poor old hoy consented, never dropping to
her game;
Young Noah got a billet doux that very afternoon
Which said, “Be true. All’s well. Prepare to
have a honeymoon.”
The lawyer drew the settlement, which William
Wilkins signed,
And handed to Miss Mary, who remarked,
“You’re very kind,
To-morrow I’ll be wedded to the darling I
adore” —
William never once suspected what the future
held in store.
The marriage-morn of jMary dawned beautiful and
She putfon’ orange-blossoms 'and a bridal dress of
white ; f - iai in __ ~ _ ■
Then— having told a story fetoj* her mystified
mammar— win J wi n
She drove away with Noah to a'Sydney registrar.
Since this happy their well-
assorted love*, „ . .
They bill and coo together [like a parr of turtle-
doves ; win- v**“
Poor Wilkins, still ownsjiis misery
in “drinks," * ,M 1/11 M
And babbles e£ a broken [heart, Mary
Jink*.
General Post Office,
Sydney, Ist September, 1886.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
CONVEYANCE being required for the Post
Office Mails, either by COACH or on HORSE-
BACK, to and from the undermentioned places,
for one year (Ist January, 1887, to the 81st
December, 1887 ), or for three years (Ist January,
1887, to the 31st December, 1889), (with the excep-
tion of those lines for which a special term is
named) —persons willing to contract for the same
are invited to transmit Tenders in the approved
form, before noon on Tuesday, the 26th day of
October next.
Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender for
Conveyance of Mails.”
For full particulars see Government Gazette.
Western Roads.
1. Railway Station and Post Office, Parramatta,
four times or oftener daily.
2. Parramatta, Field of Mars, Ermington, Car-
lingford, and Pennant Hiils, six times a
week.
3. Baulkham Hills, Castle Hill, and Dural, six
times a week.
4. Windsor and Wilberforce, six times a week.
5. Windsor and Pitt Town, six times a week.
6. Wilberforce, Ebenezer, and Sackville Reach,
three times a week.
7. Richmond, North Richmond, and Kurrajong,
six times a week.
8. Richmond and Grose Vale, six times a week.
9. Railway Station and Post Office, Mount Vic-
toria, twice or oftener daily ; and Railway
Station, Mount Victoria, and Post Offices,
Mount Victoria, Little Hartley, Hartley,
and Hartley Vale, seven times a week.
10. Bowenfels and South Bowenfels, six times a
week.
11. Railway Station and Post Office, Rylstone,
twice or oftener daily.
12. Railway Station and Post Office, Mudgee, once
or oftener daily.
13. Mudgee, Avisford, Hargraves, Windeyer,
Pwe Point, Campbell s Creek, Long Greek,
Upper Pyramul, and Crudine, twice a week.
14. Mudgee and Merindee, three times a week.
15. Mudgee, Budgee Budgee, Ulan, and Cassilis,
via Bobadeen, twice a week.
16. Mundooran, Merrygoen, and Coolah, via
Q.ueensborough Flat, Bothcro, Digilah, and
Dunikimini, once a week.
17. Rydal, Meadow Flat, and Mitchell, six times
a week ; and Mitchell, West Mitchell, and
Yetholme, via Main Road, three times a
week.
18. West Mitchell and Palmer’s Oakey, twice a
week.
19. Tarana, Mutton's Falls, and Oberon, three
times a week.
20. Oberon and Black Springs, twice a week ; and
Black Springs, Porter's Retreat, and Jer-
rong, once a week.
21. Oberon, Fish River Creek, and Duckmaloi,
three times a week.
22. O’Connell, Wiseman’s Creek, and Essington,
twice a week.
23. Railway Station, Raglan, and Post Office,
Glanmire, once or oftener daily.
24. Railway Station and Post Office, Bathurst,
twice or oftener daily.
25. Bathurst and Esrom, six times a week ; and
Esrom, Dunkeld, Evans’ Plains and Fitz-
gerald’s Valley, three times a week.
26. Bathurst and Fremantle, via Benjamin Bul-
lock, senior’s, Turkey Ridge, and Rock
Forest, once a week.
! 27. Peel, Clear Creek, and Limekilns, twice a
week.
28. Hill End, Tambaroora, and Hargraves, once a
week.
29. George’s Plains Railway Station, and Post
Offices, Cow Flat and Rockley, six times a
week.
30. Cow Flat and the Lagoon, twice a week.
31. Rockley, |Swallow’s Nest, and Burraga, via
Sewel’s and Warby’s Eagle Vale, once a
week; and Rockley, Judd’s Creek, and
Burraga, per Mount Lawson Road, once a
week. iai i n
32. Railway Station, Newbridge, and Post Office,
Caloola, three times a week.
33. Trunkey Creek and Tuena, via Sands, Coppa-
hannia, and Pine Ridge, three times a week.
34. Blayney and King’s Plains, twice a week.
35. Mandurama an 1 Galley Swamp, twice a week.
36. Millthorpe, G uyong, and Byng, three times a
week. ' 1
37. Millthorpe and Forest Reefs, three times a
week ; and Forest Reefs and Cadia, once a
week.
38. From Orange to Ophir, via Lewis Ponds, Tre-
wick’s Station, Upper Lewis Ponds, and
Singleton’s, returning by direct road, twice
a week.
39. Orange and Springside, twice a week; and
Springside, Cadia, and Carcoar, via Burnt
Yards, once a week,
40. Railway Station, Borenore, and Post Offices,
Cheeseman’s Creek, Cudal, Toogong, Murga,
Nangar, Eugowra and Forbes, six times a
week.
41. Cudal. Gregra, and Meranburn, twice a week,
42. Cudal and Bowan Park, three times a week.
43. Murga and Bumberry, once a week.
44. Forbes and Marsden’s, via Bundaburra and
The Gap, twice a week ; and Forbes and
Marsden’s, via Wongagong, Bundaburra
Creek, Dog and Duck, Green Hills, Boyd,
and Battery, once or twice a week.
45. Condobolin, Wardry, and Eauabalong, along
the south side of the Lachlan river, twice a
week.
46. Eauabalong, Willanthry, Hillston, Whealbah,
and Booligal, twice a week. (Contractor to
travel from Willanthry to Eauabalong once
a week, via the north side of the Lachlan
River, returning from Eauabalong to Wil-
lanthry, via Lake Cudgellico, Cooper’s,
Uabba (Cumming’s), “Merry Abba Hotel”
(Mann’s), and Merri Merrigal (Brewer’s), on
the south side of the river ; and once a week
along the south side of the river by way of
the places mentioned, returning by the
north side).
47. Eauabalong, South Mount Hope, and Mount
Hope, once a week.
48. Sandy Creek and Nymagee, twice a week, for
one year only.
49. Molong, Boomey, and Warne, three times a
week.
50. Molong, Garra, Meranburn, Bumberry, Bin-
dogandra, and Parkes, six times a week.
51. Mullion Creek, Whiteley’s Flat, and Kanga-
roobie, once a week.
it. From Ironbarks, via Upper and Lower Moo-
kerawa, thence along the left bank of the
Macquarie River to Mr. Schon’s, thence
along the right bank of the River to Bur-
rendong, returning to Ironbarks, via Stock-
yard Creek, three times a week.
it. Railway Station and Post Office, Wellington,
twice or oftener daily.
54. Wellington, Montefiores, Comobella, Murrun-
gandy, Cobbora, Merrygoen, Warkton, and
Coonanbarabran, 7_byl the new line of road,
twice a week.~j»«<ZZ—3B
55. Wellington and Anhurville, once a week.
56. Dubbo, Broklehurst, Burslem's, Gilgandra,
Curban, Gulargambone, and Coonamble, via
Coalbaggie Creek, Talbragar Bridge, and
Terramungamine, three times a week.
57. Dubbo, Beni, Murrungundy, and Cobbora,
twice a week.
58. Dubbo, Ten-mile Reef, and Bulgandramine,
once a week.
59. Dubbo and Belarbigill, twice a week.
60. Dubbo and Obley, via The Meadows, The
Springs, and Wambangalang, twice a week.
61. Coonamble, Buggil, and Walgett, via Yowee,
Bundy, Wingadee, and Nugal, twice a week.
62. Coonamble, Urawilkie, and Baradine, via
Nebea, Billeroy, Terembone, Teridgerie,
Dinby, and Bimble, once a week.
63. Timbriebungie and Tenandra, via Burroway,
Bundemar, Reak’s, and Wonbobbie, twice a
week.
64. Warren, Mount Harris, and Carinda, twice a
week.
65. Nyngan, Hermitage Plains, and Cobar, three
times a week.
66. Nyngan, Monkey, and Gongolgon, once a
week.
67. Railway Station and Post Office, Byrock,
twice or oftener daily.
68. Byrock, Tarcoon, and Brewarrina, three times
a week.
69. Brewarrina, Talawanta, Brenda, and Goo-
dooga, via Bundabulla, Liangboyde, on the
Biree, Weilmoringh Station, on the Culgoa,
Tatala, Guomery, and the Biree Stations,
once a week.
70. Bourke, North Bourke, Mungunyah, Enngonia
and Barringun, via West Bourke, Gedia
Camp Lake, Box-holes, Native Dog Spring,
Lila, and Belalie, twice a week.
71. Bourke, Cobar, and the Cornish, Scottish, and
Australian Copper Mines, once a week.
72. Bourke and Wanaaring, once a week.
Southern Roads.
1. Railway Station and Post Office, Liverpool, as
often as required.
2. Bringelly and Greendale, via Greendale Public
School and Greendale House, six times a
week.
3. Brownlow Hill and Werombi, three times a
week.
4. Dapto and Marshall Mount, three times a
week.
5. Douglas, Cataract, and Wilton, six times a
week.
6. Bowral, Kangaloon, East Kangaloon, and
Robertson, six times a week.
7. Railway Station and Post Office, Moss Yale,
twenty-two or more times a week, including
the clearance of the Letter Receiver at the
Railway Station, six times a week.
8. Sutton Forest and Cross Roads, four times a
week.
9. Kangaroo Valley and Broughton’s Creek, six
times a week.
10. Broughton’s Creek and Nowra, six times a
week.
11. Broughton’s Creek and Coolangatta, six times
a week.
12. Nowra, Tomerong, Wandandian, Conjola,
Yatteyattah, Milton, and Ulladulla, six
times a week.
13. Nowra, Berrellan, Pyree, and Greenwell Point,
six times a week.
14. Conjola and Redhead, once a week.
15. Milton, Brooman, Nelligen, and Bateman’s
Bay, via Currawang, once a week.
16. Bateman’s Bay, Mogo, Mullenderee, and
Moruya, three times a week. (It is clearly
understood that the mails shall leave Bate-
man’s Bay immediately after the arrival
there of the steamer from Sydney, and shall
leave Moruya as required to meet the
steamer leaving Bateman’s Bay for Sydney,
the Contractor finding adequate means for
both requirements.)
17. Railway Station and Post Office, Goulburn,
four times or oftener daily.
18. Goulburn and Crookwell, three times a week.
19. Goulburn and Woodhouselee, Laggan, and
Crookwell, three times a week.
20. Crookwell, Binda, and Junction Point, three
times a week.
21. Bigga, Greenmantle, and Lyndhurst, once a
week.
22. Bigga and Mount M'Donald, once a week.
23. Crookwell and Pejar,. twice a week.
24. Wheeo and Narrawa, twice a week; and
Narrawa, Reid’s Flat, Graham, and Cowra,
along the south side of the Lachlan River,
via Bennett’s Springs, once a week.
25. Taralga and Curraweela, twice a week, and
to and from Curraweela and Jerrong, once a
week.
26. Taralga, Wowagin, and Laggan, once a week.
27. Queanbeyan, Molonglo, and Foxlow, once a
week.
28. Queanbeyan and TJriarra, via Yarralumla,
twice a week.
29. Queanbeyan, Williamsdale, Michelago, Colin-
ton, Bredbo, and Cooma, six times a week.
30. Nimitybelle, Brown Mountain, Numbugga,
and Bega, via Benbooka Station, and Glen-
bog, once a week.
31. Nimitybelle and Cathcart, via Railway Bridge,
once a week.
32. Craigie and Upper Quinburra Public School,
once a week.
33. Adaminaby and Rosedale, twice a week.
34. Braidwood and Monga, twice a week.
35. Braidwood, Jembaicumbene, and Majors
Creek, three times a week.
36. Major’s Creek and Krawarree, once a week.
37. Ballalaba and Krawarree, via Jerrabat Gully,
once a week.
38. From Ballalaba to Braidwood, and from Braid-
wood to Ballalaba and Krawarree, via
Stony Creek, once a week.
39. Cobargo and Bermagui, twice a week.
40. Cobargo and Wandella, twice a week.
41. Bega, Wolumla, Pambula, and Eden, twice a
week.
42. Pambula and Merimbula, twice a week, for
one year only.
43. Merimbula, Wolumla, and Bega, or Tathra,
Tathra Road, and Bega, on arrival and de-
parture of steamers.
44. Eden and Timbilica, once a week.
45. Breadalbane, Parkesbourne, and Merrilla,
three times a week.
46. Breadalbane and Collector, six times a week.
47. Breadalbane and Gurrundah, once a week.
48. Gunning and Dalton, six times a week.
49. Upper Gundaroo and Ginninderra, twice a
week.
50. Rye Park and Five-mile Creek, via Frost’s
Farm and Digger’s Flat, once a week.
51. The Yass Railway Station and Post Office,
Yass, including the clearing of the letter
receiver at North Yass, seven or more times
a week.
52. Yass, Murrumbateman, Jeir, Ginninderra,
Canberra, and Queanbeyan, three times a
week.
53. Yass and Boambola, once a week.
54. Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
55. Bowning and Bookham, three times a week.
56. Bookham, Chidowla, Bongongo, and Tumut
via Smith’s, Kiley’s, Red Hill, and Geary's’
Wyangle, once a week, for one year only.
57. Railway Station, B nalong, and Post Otlices
Binalong and Burrowa, six times a week;
and Burrowa, Marengo, and Young, three
times a week.
58. Burrowa, Morongla Creek, and Cowra, via
Narellan and Breakfast Creeks, once or
twice a week.
59. Marengo, Monica Vale, and Cowra, via Bang
Bang, Watemandra, and Crowther, twice a
week.
60. Railway Station and Post Office, Murrum-
burrah, twice or oftener daily, including the
clearance of the Letter Box at the Murrain -
burrah Station, when required.
61. Murrumburrah, Demondrille, Wombat, and
Young, six times a week.
62. Murrumburrah and Marshall M‘Mahon Reef,
once a week.
63. Railway Station and Post Office, Young, once
or oftener daily.
64. Young, Bono Bang, Monica Vale, and Cowra,
along the railway line, three times a week.
65. Young and Mounteagle, via Five-mile and
Ten-mile, twice a week.
66. Morangarell and Barmedman, via Tarangalay
once a week.
67. Railway Station and Post Office, Cootamundra,
four times or oftener daily.
68. Cootamundra, Kilrush and Jugiong, via The
Grove, Cullinga Creek, Grovesend, Temple-
more, Cowong, Kyron, Rathden, Jereleamby
and Sandy Creek, once a week.
69. From Cootamundra to West Temora, via
Dacey’s, Geraldra, Grogan, Croumbie, and
Narraburra Stations, returning to Coota-
mundra, via North Gundibindyal, Woods-
town, Gundibindyal, and Stockinbingal,
twice a week.
70. Temora and Merool Creek (Harman’s), twice
a week.
71. Temora and Barmedman, three times a week.
72. Coolac and North Gobarralong, twice a week.
73. Coolac and Jugiong, three times a week.
74. Gundagai and Brungle, twice a week.
75. Gundagai, Gocup, and Tumut, via the
Marked Tree Line, three or six times a
week ; and Adelong Crossing-place, Gra-
harnstown, Shepard’s Town, Adelong, Gil-
more, and Tumut, six times a week.
76. Adelong, Middle Adelong, Reedy Flat, Laurel
Hill, Upper Tumberumba, andTumberumba,
via Hastedt’s, Parrott Hill, and M‘Bow-
ling’s, of Upper Tumberumba, once a week;
and Adelong, Middle Adelong, Reedy Flat,
Taradale, Bago Station, and Tumberumba,
once a week.
77. Adelong and Mount Adrah, once a week.
78. From Tarcutta, via Humula and Oberne, to a
point 9 miles above Oberne, returning via
Humula, Murraguldrie, and down the
Umbango Creek"to Tarcutta, three times a
week.
79. Bethungra, Mitta Mitta, and Yamrnatree,
twice a week.
80. Bethungra and Ironbong, once a week.
81. Illabo Railway Station and Eurongilly, twice
a week.
82. Railway Station and Post Office, Wagga
Wagga, four times or oftener daily.
83. Jereelderie, Wilson, Spring Plain, Argoon,
Waddai, and Darlington Point, via Kulki,
twice a week.
84. Lowesdale and Middledale, once a week.
85. Corowa, Bull Plain, and O’Brien’s, Victoria
Park, via Redland’s School and Sandy
Ridges, once a week ; and Coorowa, Bull
Plain, Savernake, Berrigan, and Murray
Hut, via Sedgwick’s, Spry’s, Pine Lodge,
North Collendina, Kenneth Murchison’s,
M’Farlane’s, Dicker’s, Boxer’s Kilby’s
Whiteley’s, Wealand’s, B. Creeed’s, W.
Creed’s, Carpenter’s, Shand’s, Green Hills,
Mitchell’s, M‘Neill’s, Fry’s, Austin’s,
Brown’s, M'Lelland’s, Cooper’s, Garland’s,
Burn’s, and Ryan’s, once or twice a week.
86.. Corowa, Hopefield, and Carnsdale, via Tyrone
School and Oil Tree or Kentucky Station,
once a week.
87. Jindera, Ebenezer, and Walla Walla Station,
twice a week.
88. Hare field and Yathella, twice a week.
89. Rankin’s Springs and Wallandry, via Eura-
thra, Malonga, and Nariah, twiee a week.
90. Darlington Point and Hay, travelling on the
south side of the river, three times a week.
91. Railway Station and Post Office, Hay, once or
oftener daily.
92. Hay and Booligal, three times a week.
93. Hay, Boorooban, Wanganella, and Deniliquin,
six times a week.
94. Booligal, Mossgiel, flvanhoe, and Wilcannia,
three'times a week.
95. Balranald, Euston, Gol Gol, and Wentworth,
three times a week.
96. Menindie and Mount Gipps, once a week.
97. Line withdrawn.
Northern Roads.
1. Hornsby, Farnell, and Peat’s Ferry, six times
a week.
2. Gosford, Blue Gum Flat, Wyong Creek, and
Cooranbong, twice a week.
3. Gosford, Erina, and Wamberal, twice a
week.
4. Woy Woy and Mullet Creek, three times a
week.
5. Stockton and William Town, three times a
week.
6. Railway Station, Waratah, and Post Office,
Waratah, four times or oftener daily ; and
Waratah, Lambton, andWallsend, six times
a week.
7. Wallsend, Winding Creek, and Cooranbong,
three times a week.
8. Raymond Terrace and Nelson’s Plains, six
times a week.
9. Booral and Bulahdelah, three times a week.
10. Bulahdelah, Boolambayte, and Bungwall Flat,
twice a week.
11. Bulahdelah, Nerong, Tea Gardens, and
Hawke’s Nest, once a week.
12. Bulahdelah and Cooloongolook, once or twice
a week.
13. Taree, Cundletown, Ghinni Ghinni, Croki,
Coopernok, Holy Flat, Camden Haven Punt,
and Port Macquarie, six times a week.
14. Taree and Redbank, three times a w r eek.
15. Dingo Creek and Wherrol Flat, twice a week.
(Contractor to travel via Dingo Creek
Bridge in times of flood.)
16. Cundletown, Oxley Island, and Mitchell’s
Island, twice a week.
17. Port Macquarie, Blackman’s Point, Telegraph
Point, East Kempsey, and Kempsey, six
times a week.
18. Port Macquarie, Blackman’s Point, Rawdon
Island, Ennis, and Morton’s Creek (Beech-
wood), via Craig’s, three times a week.
19. Telegraph Point and Rolland’s Plains, three
times a week
20. Kempsey, West Kempsey, Greenhill, Wame-
ton, and Sherwood, three times a week.
21. Kempsey, Frederickton, Smithtown, Glad-
stone, and Summer Island, via Seven Oaks,
three times a week, with a branch mail t®
and from Summer Island and Spencer’*


Creek (Robinson’s Wharf), twice a week.
(Mails to be conveyed between Kempsey,
Frederickton, and Gladstone by boat, in
times of flood.)
22. Kempsey, Frederickton, Clybucca, Nambucca,
Deep Creek, Fernmount, and Boat Harbour,
three times a week, with a branch mail to
and from Namhucca and Nambucca Heads,
via Thomas Davis’ Saw-mills and the Lower
Nambucca, three times a week.
23. West Kempsey, Greenhill, Skillion Flat
Hickey’s Creek, and Bell Brook, once a
week. 1
24. Fernmount and East Raleigh, twice a week.
25. Boat Harbour and Never Never, once a week.
26. Gresford, Allynbrook, Halton, and Eccleston,
three times a week.
27. Hinton, Seaham, Glenoak, and Clarence Town,
six times a week ; and Clarence Town,
Brookfield, Newpark, and Dungog, three
times a week. (If floods prevent the mails
being conveyed between Hinton and Sea-
hain, contractor must travel via West Mait-
land and the Belmore and Dunmore
Bridges.)
28. Bendolba and Underbank, three times a week.
29. Wollombi and Laguna, three times a week.
30. Railway Station and Post Office, Branxton,
twice or oftener daily.
31. Singloton, Boggy Flat, Warkworth, and
Jerry's Plains, via Thorley’s, three times a
week.
32. Singleton and Rix’s Creek, twice a week.
33. Warkworth and The Bulga, three times a
week.
34. Glennie’s Creek and Camberwell, once or
oftener daily. (Contractor to convey the mails
arriving by the evening train when the
steamer arrives too late at Newcastle for
them to be forwarded by the mail train.)
35. Railway Station and Post Office, Muswell-
brook, twice or oftener daily.
36. Musvvelibrook. Denman, Giant’s Creek, Gun-
gal, and Merriwa, six times a week.
37. Merriwa, Bow, Borambil, and Cassilis, four
times a week
38. Merriwa and Idaville, via Terrag* ng Moun-
tain Station, Cream of Tartar Creek, and
Messrs. Bourke and Simmon’s residence,
once a week.
39. Cassilis, Uarbry, and Denison Town, via
Lamb’s, O’Malley’s, and “ Piper’s Hotel,”
twice a week.
40. Cassilis and Turee Creek, via the surveyed
line near H other wood, twice a week.
41. Aberdeen, Kouchell Brook, and Davies’Creek,
twice a week, for one year only.
42. Quirindi, Warrah Ridge, Pine Ridge, and
Colley Blue, via Kickerbil and Webland,
twice a week.
43. Quirindi, Spring Ridge, and Goran Lake, via
Abbotsley, twice a week.
44. Colly Blue and Yarraman, twice a week.
45. Railway Station and Post Office, Quipolly,
twice a week
46. Boggabri and Mullaley, via Wightman’s
Mxon’s, Jackson’s, Clemesha’s, Goolhi,
Willmott’s, and Cunningham’s, twice a
week.
47. Boggabri, Barney Springs, and Manilla, once
a week.
48. Boggabri and Rocky Glen, via Ramsay’s, Cul-
lendaddy, Donaldson’s, M‘Lean’s, Lower
Arrowralne, Pebbles, and Boro, once a week.
49. Rocky Glen and Baradine, via Yamambah,
Redbank, Sandy Holes, Dandy North, and
Wittenbrie, once a week.
50. Railway Station and Post Office, Narrabri,
once or oftener daily.
51. Narrabri and Dunmore’s, via Gregory’s Arn-
dell’s karm, Baker’s, Billingsley’s, Davis’,
Capel’s Roache’s. Orman’s Standford’s,
Pratt’s, Sorel’s, Thirkettle’s, Miller’s, and
Ward’s, Eulah Creek, once a week.
52. Narrabri, Eulourie, and Bingera, via Killar-
ney, Edgeroi, Single’s, Berrigal (Terri-hi-hi
Out Station), Rocky Creek, Pallal, and
Derra Derra, once a week.
53. Walgett and Goodogo via Springs, Grawin,
Wilby Wilby, and Muckerwa, once a week.
54. Walgett and Carinda, via Kidgear, Polly Bre-
wan, Bogewong, and Warren Downs, once
a week.
55. Millie, New Oriel, and Mogil Mogil, via Wil-
lalee, Munyga, Oriel, Buleori, Colleytudula,
Merriwynebone, Pockataroo, Collymungle,
and Werribilli, once a week ; and Millie,
New Oriel, Collarenebri, and Mogil Mogil,
via Willalee, Munyga, Oriel, Buleori, Colley-
tudula, Merriwynebone, and Pockataroo,
once a week.
56. Millie, Meroe, Currigundi, and Benarba, once
a week. • j j ’ -i m I *i
57. Garah and Kunopia, via Whalan New Station,
twice a week. (In time of flood contractor to
travel to and from Moree and Kunopia, via
Garah and Whalan New Station, if neces-
sary).
58. Kunopia and Mungindi, via Graman, Colunah,
Champain’s, and Myall Plain, once a week.
59. Kunopia and Goondawindi, once a week.
60. Tam worth and Moor Creek, twice a week.
61. Barraba. Eulourie, and Moree, via Burindi,
Campo Santo, Tareela, Little Creek, Cur-
rangandi, Ullembarella, Pallal, Dera, Bang,
het, Gineroi, Gravesend, Binnigi, and Bald-
win’s, once a week.
62. Bingera and Bundarra, via Coorangoora,
Keira, Beverley, and Long Reach, once a
week.
63. Bendemeer and Kingstown, by the old mail
line, via Green Valley, once a week.
64. Walcha Road and Glen Morrison, via Sur-
veyor’s Creek Station,. Aberbaldie, and In-
gleba, once a week.
65. Walcha and Yarrowitch, via Ohio, Europam-
bola, Waterloo, Tiara, and Tia, once a
week
66. Railway Station and Post Office, Uralla, twice
or oftener daily.
67. Urall, Balala, and Bundarra, via Toryburn,
Stoney Batter, and King John Swamp, three
times a week; and Bundarra, Stanborough,
Tingha, Gilgai, and Inverell, three times a
week.
68. Uralla and Rocky River, three times a week.
69. Bundarra and Kingstown, once a week.
70. Kingstown and Orabah, once a week.
71. Armidale, Yarrowyck, George’s Creek, and
Bundarra, via Invergowrie, Laura Station,
and Abington, once a week ; and Armidale,
Yarrowyck, and Bundarra, via Invergowrie,
Laura Station, and Abington, once a week.
72. Armidale and Oban, via Guyra, Burying
Ground Creek, Rock Vale, Armidale Gully,
Aberfoil, and Ward’s Mistake Head Station,
once a week ; and Armidale and Oban, via
Guyra, Green Vale, Coningdale, Kilkoy, on
the Chandler, Fairview, Camperdown Lynd-
hurst, Aberfoil, and Ward’s Mistake Head
Station, once a week.
73. Armidale, Wollomombi, Bellbrook, Hickey’s
Creek,'Skillion Flat, Greenhill, WestKemp-
sey, and Kempsey, via Hillgrove, Giogla,
Long Flat, Towel Creek, Peedre Creek, and
Toorookoo, once a week.
74. Armidale and Puddledock, once a week.
7 6, Armidale and Castle Doyle, once a week.
76. Armidale and Mother of Duck’s Railway
Station, via Guyra, once a week.
77. Ben Lomond Railway Station and “Ben
Lomond Hotel,” three times a week.
78. Glencoe and Graham’s Valley, once a week.
79. Glen Innes, Swan Vale, and Inverell, six times
a week.
80. Wellingrove and Emmaville, via Wellingrove
Station and Strathbogie, once a week.
81. Inverell, Reedy Creek, and Warialda, via
Gragin, and Myalla, twice a week, by coach.
82. Inverell, Oakwo r >d, and Wallangra, via Ban-
nockburn, Kulki, and Graman, twice a
week.
83. Tenterflcld, Sandy Hill, Boorook, Drake, and
Tabulam, twice a week.
81. Drake' Lunatic Reefs, and Pretty Gully, once
a week,
85. Tooloom and Acacia Creek, via Mungarragan,
Woodenbung, and White Swamp, once a
week.
86. Clarence River steamers and Post Offices,
Iluka and Yamba as required, to meet
steamers, that arrive and depart, or that
pass up and down the river; and Post
Offices, Iluka and Yamba, twice a week.
87. Clarance River steamers and Post Office, Har-
wood Island, as required to meet steamers
that arrive and depart, or that pass up and
down the river, for one year only,
88. Ocean steamers and Post Office, Maclean, as
they pass Maclean up and down the Clar-
ence River.
89. Ulmarra and Upper Coldstream, twice a week.
90. Steamer’s Wharf, Grafton, and Post Office,
Grafton, on arrival and departure of
steamers.
91. Grafton and Southgate, twice a week.
92. South Grafton and Gerrymberryn, twice a
, week - ” . JZs -3 '
93. Lismore, Bexhill, and Clunes, twice a week,
(Bexhill mails to be conveyed by a branch
line if necessary) ; and to and from Clunes,
Eureka, and Brunswick, via Benny’s Creek
and Togarah Grass Main Road, once a
week.
91. Lismore, Goolmangar, and Nimbin, once a
week.
95. Goolmangar and Jiggi, once a week.
96. Murwillumbah and Brunswick, once a week.
97. Murwillumbah, Tumbulgum, North Tumbul-
gum, Cudgen, and Tweed Heads, three
times a week by steam-launch. (Contrac-
tor to provide for the porterage of mails to
and from the various Post Offices and the
steamer). • - ■CtZgj
98. Tumbulgum and Tweed pleads, via Cudgen
(Boyd’s), once a week, for one year only,
99. Wardell, Rous, and Alstonville, twice a week.
100. Ballina and Upper North Creek, once a week.
SITBURBANftROADS.’
1. Railway Station, Kogarah. and Post Offices,
Kogarah and Woniora, twice a week.
2. From Ashfleld to Canterbury, three times a
day ; and from Canterbury to Ashfleld,
twice a day. <; A
3. Canterbury and Belmore, six times a week.
1. Burwood, Enfield, Druitt Town, Bankstown,
and Upper Bankstown, twelve times a week.
F. B. SUTTOR.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 21, 1886.
TENDERS j for PUBLIC j WORKS and
TENDERS are invited for the following PU BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can he received
at this office.
Construction of the Prince Alfred
Hospital Connecting Sewer
Kerbing and Guttering in
Grounds of University of
Sydney
Alterations, &c., Lock-up, Ta-
ralga
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., Cowra
Erection of Lockup, Mount Vic-
toria
Ironwork Contract, No. 23,
Sydney Sewerage Works
Manufacture in the Colony and
Supply of Twenty Soho Pattern
Smith’s Anvils
Tuesday,
September 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
on Potts Hill, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wentworth Water
Works
Ditto Pump Chamber. &c., ditto
ditto, ditto
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes,
V a Ives, &c., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and Fittings, and
erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto
Ditto Flexible-join ted Pipes, &c.,
ditto ditto ditto
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Wilga, Great Western Railway
Tuesday,
October 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
Cataract River, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Extension of Gosford Wharf at
Brisbane Water
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office at Wagga Wagga
Supply of One Van for Travell-
ing Gas Supply
Supply of One Truck sor Travel-
ling Gas Supply
Supply of Two Steel Gas Holders
Tuesday,
October 12,
at 11 o’dock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Contract 1, Bourke
Water Supply
Construction of Settling Reser-
Toirs, Boiler-house, &c., Con-
tract 2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipes, Valves, &c.,
Contract 3, ditto ditto ditto
Supply and Erection of Engines,
Boiler, &c., Contract 4, ditto
ditto ditto
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
LADIES OF SYDNEY.
TT behoves every thrifty housewife to
look to the future, in order if pos-
sible to
SAVE MONEY.
It is a well-known fact that a large in-
crease has occurred in the price of wool at
home, and it is only to be expected that
prices of Woollen Goods will be higher
next winter than they are this ; so that if
any of you will be requiring
NEW BLANKETS
next winter, how much better to buy them
now, and save the inevitable increase in
price.
Those who have bought blankets from
this winter know what excellent value we
have been giving, and we feel sure that if
you do so also you will never regret it.
OUR PRICES ARE—
4s. lid., Ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. lid., Bs. 6d.,
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 205., 255., 305., and
up to 50s. a pair.
HORDERN BROTHERS
(HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET),
211 PITT STREET.
Newest Invention • Greatest Novelty.
THfc
Y
PATENT
DIAGONAL DAM
COESET.
Patented in England end on the o'T>tin«nt. Wm not snlit in
the s> srr t nor tear in t h e Fabric Exquisite model Perft c>
corof it Guam teed wear.
Le Fellet says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal, Nsw Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets, London
International Exhibition, 1884
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
gfeSgaSS^asiai'BigTOffiiji
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Auctioneers, General Commission Agents.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also,
Sales of FAT STOCK at HOMEBUSH and COR-
PORATION YARDS.
Office—l7s CASTLEREAGH STREET.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &e., &e.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
First-class Accommodation for Commercials.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
BEDDING ! BEDDING I BEDDING !
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREL
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER 5. ,:
None but the celebrated “ Samarang ’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
fm
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL VVINDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
XW Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
_£«10,000. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
dt' SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to he run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards.—Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
0. o, T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
2v£EIDICI2STE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by-
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills • and Suva, Fiji
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Beos to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best seleetions
seen m Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading. Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers'
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A ehoice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspectien Invited. Priee List on application.


WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
effected by its use fail to impress
repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. My
Dr.
cures that have been
upon your mind this
ands are using it,
it is a medicine
even more than
WHAT
WILL
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
the machinery of your
body into w'orking order.
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the win -low, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
CONVINCE
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia.
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
I'i you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIER,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic keeping the KID
NEYh and LIVE .—the great organs of the body-
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of an\
Hospital, Asylum, or O d People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application t,
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Mimstei
of the i .ospel, certifying that they are unable to pa;,
for medicine.
bell’s Titters
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA
BUTJHER. FFHON&OO..Syd. -
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queens ;■<
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 4 in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patehes and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
'Tt
manufacturers
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS'CAPS it
438 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY %
fifiposite J-.CLssetter£
//
f
w.
17 CREWIN'
Guilty A?^(9
S^AIBUP3-
vd/e,At/
O,
'Mlfr.
A/sre>
YT/IO 7777
OVT^i
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures
'’■ We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all classes of I urniture, Giookery
Glassware, E.P. Ware, Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &c. Iti
AISO, 1: , o
OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OF BEDSTEADS,
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES.
■■j—l
IT" —»
([WONDERFUL
*
j i ;
| PRICES.
THE £2 15a.
od am mounted half-tester bedsteads, full size, with extend
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
ALEX.
BORTHWICK
GLASS,
WALLPAPER,
PAINT, &c
281 George-street, Sydney.
H
m
©
si
u
k
&
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Go,
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital .... £35,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
£3T Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &c., of all
descriptions covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
•
xV..
rip
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing eoughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
li, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Achino Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can he seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to he the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, PharmacjJitM Chemist,
531 only.
NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
ƒ
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
AGATELLE BOARDS, ~ Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
H
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY^
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
- streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
O' FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
C match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
fd
ďf
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
TTTALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VV VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
mnell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
LEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
JN
fYPn
10
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
df
BDSTEADS, all sizes,
i Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and.
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
d
SPRING MATTRASSBS
Woven Wire, beat
DlJ ,k« ; also, Spiral Springs
pn<-.«. from lls. each.
HRADLEY, NEW luM and LAMB.


PENITO)
\ %jJn exquisite
S T THE PROPRIETOR,
f
dfd
&ALICYU
I TOOTHPASTE
Uflrivalled foe{ /ts/z/t/seft/c
/fifo CL£Af/S!f/G PROPERTIES.
.MELHUISH, Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 William S* S YDNEY^jj
Opts
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the abovb Lines.
278 and 412 Georgorst., Sydney.
SlO H
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT,
w'laatjko jrjsr iujusjz.
fd
F|EAS.FUES BEETLES MOSQUITi
COCKR OACHES. VISA': AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMIESSTO BIRDS DOGS
fowls or other;;v ,
'W
animals
fd
fd
SOLOji
AND STOREKEEPERS!
WHOLCS/u-C |
FELTON-CRIMWADEUC?
- MELBOURNE :_al
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
HUDSON’S
df
erfect,
Urity’l
f
A . PERFECT PURITY” FILTERS
**®*®B* THE ONLY reliable filters.
AWARDS—Diploma of Merit, Diploma of Honour and Silver
Medal, Inventions Exhibition, London, 1885,
l>AVn?r CATALOGUES POST FREE.
JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
df
! BUDGEREE U
trade
if
MARK.
Itii
DISINFECTANT Is the most wonderful Germ-killer, and Fever-destroyer
J fcy) drains. '° UBe hold should be without' it, as it instantly kills all bad smells arising from
. y ’ ° CC ' by all chemists.
p?AS. O. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
°^GANB
“OLe
agents for the
.Smith.
BKUCE & MASSEY,
PIANOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney. *
lAiUm1 Ai Um
S PILLS,
UTER REMEDY.
ry or min eral substance,
y et^ e . of the nineteenth cen-
t ff f cLive : they can 1)0
in S i.7’ » careiuiiy pro*
v ov ei .o heresultof P ractical ex ’
K l C 4v e r COme the worst-form, of
® a r thn? tnac ' 1 ’ Head and Kidneys.
j ~*4 }l V/I *j nemi and iviiiuoys.
<:f - 1 tJl ny have not afforded
): RGE STREET.
MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
DE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINI
. CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE
and General Debility, and all complaints that
f nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nerve
stion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders,
y Complaints, General Prostration, Impoveri
ture Decline, Loss of Vital Power, ic. I!,
ootliing effects it at once removes all crav...
Ucohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other pow
italising dements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
ishes and gives vigor to the Whole system. Price '
| m ‘m MARSHALL BROTH!
ORI
CINAL
dAKIIVC p
&
&
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O-R
■ .
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
WopoJSm
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT -
m
SHOSJI
Manufactured byJaf'esChannon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Crocersand Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COW«hFffiSET
5c LOiy*. 7* ■
V
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH S 7
■KMiniM—irrrmr~r
R. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-strcet, be-
tween Park and Ilathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal Con kgk of
Physicians of England. Consult him for the
best and safest treatment on nervous debility,
skin, contagious, and blocd diseases.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
£
r/ff '
.: ■ »
A
JLi
: >V'<
tXTRA DRY
DUALITY DRY
J n l:.
■ 1 vi' u.,iS' - L*.i!iffu;*H
fiEIM-S
H.LM THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Walos
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Aktiiub
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
PARRY & Os
NEW EXTRACT
df
fdfdf
ď
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OP H'/fts
V
to
CJ
C/7j
JXJ
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson's Ame
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incqmparible
with codec or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
df
AiAS* 'luih
y, rn u
smi
.Eczema on 8c»lp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
from
ISO
*®jl
hi
Borofula on heck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cutioura and CimoußA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both.sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Coticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
ft. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Furl-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the lialr, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beantifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, afra Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, lafge boxes,
$1.00; Coticura Soap, 25 cents; Cbtioura Shav-
ing Soap, id cents; Cuticura Rbboiysjht, $l4O
per hotUe. -
Prepared »t the
Potter Drug * Chemical Co., Bostfg, U.S.A,


THOMAS
WATCHMAKER
i 4 B °MEL^)URNEf T ’}
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY #
{ NKAI OEFXCIS-.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments,
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases,'warranted a most correct and reliable
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
FRYS
A-SK YOUR GROCER FOR *
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MART THAN A PINT OF THE ; BEST ARE OR PORTER.”—I.ANCET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksraithing, Plumbing.
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &o. *
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fir as, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaMI) MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full “Particulars and Price on Application.
SCHWEITZER’S COOOATXNA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUBLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR
OR ADMIXTURE. • ' >
The Faculty pronounce it the “ most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon, an
Supper;’’ and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
. Being aosolutely “all Cocoa," With tile excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of preparations thickened yet
weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast
cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, kseping for years in all climates, being in a concentrated
form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
IST CELEBRATED FOR REMARKABLY SUSTAINING PROPERTIES. SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR EARLY
BREAKFASTS. ADOPTED AS A MEDICAL COMFORT IN THE ROYAL NAVY
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in air-tight tins, at Is. 6d., 35., os M Gd,, &c.
Wholesale bv the Sole Agents,
Schweitzer & Co., 10 Adams-st., Strand, W.C., London,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
I?_ 13. LAEKIIT,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions .to. his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines"
and Spirits, .personally selected by the,proprietor.
H. can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit tho patronage
which ha# hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEf'I BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
ttft A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAI/PRICES FOR CEASES OF THE ABOVE. TBt
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best .quality, all returns being allowed for.
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway Station or any Wharf in the city or
any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous kS3 Gases, containing the following’:
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Botjtle JAMAICA RUM
l Bottle PORT WINK
3 Bottles WHISKY
l Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHEIU'tV WINE
Total 18.
Bottles LOWNDES' RDM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
The articles contained in P. R. Li’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th ,'Haymarket Post Office.
KINDRY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPP3 ( STREETS, IIAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departmentr, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney. ~
WALLAC
3STEW
FURMTTJRE warehouses;
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
"' } -» ; > \ ‘
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
-
CATERER AND CONFECT'
654 GEORGE STREET.
srii"-*- 1 'I*' 1 *'
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A
SCHOTT
, ; MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
BRUSSELS.
tub
Also, at LONDON, MAYENCE, PARIS, And
NI # s
LARGEST STOCK IN THE C 0 Lj)
C. R. YOUNG’S
COMMERCIAL HOf^
GULGONG.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRA
vellep^
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL
LI. P. GREGORY & ° 0 '’ A
V
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T- -A.. cSS Co., CirLcijf
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated MA
EVERY requisite for wood-working and saw-miiaiN g
Send for Catalogues ani> Prices.
Quay
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, .Ciro»l*r^
- —■ ■■■■■■
:> “BOOKS.” : Any Book You Want. "aO?’
ANGUS i&TIROBER 1 „
112 MARKET STREET, SY#SEV*
AC
; Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book
! • mail to any part of Australia.
OFFORD & CO.’S
- LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAP
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GE
tiou
appl lo
$
\ fp
G $
MDF, PE NOUVELLES’
Old aixl experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
'f equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
} starohed linen.
£>old by all Grocers-'ftnd Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. * l?y Elliott 8r05... and E, Prosser
’apd Go., Ritt-strcet; W. J. Norris and Son;Poorest
'Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
.None genuine unless bearing, the name and address
Of the only maker. -
J. BITTER Mil t», Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
f - • Street, ltcilfcru.
-'LINEN Gr L 0 ; S S.
t 7 i\ foden & co.;
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERBKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
.. . i.
STOREY,
aV on°* e
I J
General Oo
pi v
30RAKI, IUCH^.°5 P
po@o^o
Try
MUSICAL
The Largest A^j
705
IHK CLI
MON tS ;
LIJViB F IiIJIT
SOLD
pi«
Tt
for
Send
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 and 33 MNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta tfxlnUition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for iErated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs
