

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
a
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
THE ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Wo contribute eomethio* to enhance the natural
Marino a# il * . . , r '’“PPv lu fe ovdij nttuiauu iiloo till IT tjvßry rflti u irfiTTiftTif.-
O anoe of the feminine form; we assist in a most economical fashion in mixing the Early Tea and the Late Coffee; and in the Mmcer represented we add a most useful"
article to the household machinery.
Wmmuwm
The Napoleon
Spirit Stove.
Stove 7d, Kettle 6d
Complete, Is Id.
TEA AND COFFEE
nr
HALF A MINUTE.
; 1
v m
PERFECT.ED.
The A. H. and 9.-38. 3d.
The Empor.um —4s 9d.
PALACE
CORSETS.
The Palace —3s. lid.
The Haymarkct— ss. 6d.
Sponge’s Enamelled Mincers,
Jfo. 1, Gi. Bd. 2, IDs. I, 138. 6d.
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, IS CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
Household Fixings of every kind are bsst bought at THE PALA.CE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKJBT.
';:r -
t s™*.
■
n '
1
Weigh Everything,
Including
THE CONSEQUENCES.
F-iIRBANK’S
GEissnpion Scales.
Will weigh from Ji'oz. to 2401ba.
Price, 19s. Od.
’§ COUNTER SCALES.
s > 4s. 9d.; 141bs, 6s ; 281bs, 10s;
*«, 661bs, 13s. Cd.
4n, s don nro Muz, 2s. the #ct.
Jfc * V{S HY
Tib
'SSPS>
(Mm
v
Palasa 6ranUa
TOIBBT BBT,
viz *
1 each Jmr. Basin Brush, and Soap Tray,
2 Chambers- 6d , complete.
A BEAUTIFUL CHOICE Of TOILET
WARE.
“ Ircvantioa is batter
than Care,”
and without implying anything
derogatory of Sydney water, wo
can strongly reoommend
CHEAVIHTd
IMHKIi
, ( aji" I *’;
! i /
an
ii i
Our prico3 are lower than those of any other Sydney House.
00 0 1 2 2
j 7-j 30s. 425. 50s.
\u 2 X A 3 >J ? 6 ■Jans,
larger tizes in proportion.
Many Harden: Mons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and 00
IMFOSTSES and MANUFACTU&SHS of
onrgsie GEAR, Brass & Nlokal-platad SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
of every description,
EOULTON’S “FLUBE-OUT,” "YALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “YACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents fop Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c,
mm mmmß mmm, eaena©quari3eFia©@,s^dnaf.
Full particulars and price on application.
\
->
V
n
Genuine
Economical
- a
Makers to the Q
e
e
n
u
'lSiiw
ViM \il-i
i,!U
n
I: V
4^
f' ;,S T S
,;r; -’1
£ *o|
m
m
W-.
1
ifcr
m
JSSIfL-
mw
)Vj-
.< / «/;Y e a '
V
* ff;
Jsss
mmrfi&Jrrv * •
nfis Hm jLol&'tai.ex*,
24 O’Ccnaell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOaEtAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete FliotograpMc Outfits, in great variety, from £J3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS MB PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and P.APID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
1 §
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 SEOftSE STREET
VW WKDDINGB, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
ISiCSSOTT A GO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HEE MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, R. 5.1.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
LAlifiBST STOi K~II THE COLONIES
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
rriHltt Hotel Is centrally situated, being' close to Poet and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav kv
| Sup* nor Accommodation lor Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Winea and Spirits
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the oity.
Sa'ulximucui,
2.07 SPitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
L«JNQB£ON Aim REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
1
and Cl
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINBJ
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
<9
T
Importers of
dI'IAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MAC®®!®
RAiLWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT®
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &0.
SAB, PLATE, BHEBT, ?
and HOOP IRON j.
Q A LT 7 ANISED OORRU- :
GATED and PLAIN 6
IRON t
UIKET and PBIFO-
HATED ZINC: TIN l
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD *
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
PINCIKG WIRB
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
89LLBD H GIRD3S3
•vj>
Qfi(sCsi
J V
nr k". i
L
s^Uir
»cr ~
♦rffffJ-
r&~
i
88J*
oti 1 '
VERTICAL *O d
ZONTAL
TK A M M» d
PUMPS
LATHES.
shaping, s^i;
ING, and ER^
MACHINES
STEAM
ENGINEER 8 ’
FOUNDRY
patent rov
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER* **
Pries Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
BOBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse - - * - 64 YORK STREET,
Iron an I Implement Yard - - EASY AND ENGINE STREETS, «tiOl
Bulk Store* .... HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
STTfeSTKY 1 ;
London OSSoe - - - - 25 GHAOSOHHROH BTBUMWI
Mgk* Borthwick. g| aS <
WALLPAPER, PAINT, Ac. BJS ® >
2SI O-eorg-e-st., S^rd-n.^
OFFORD & CO.’S HAI
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
IST Next to Eoyal Ilotel, and at 652 George Strict*
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la.
Asiatic L’nlment, 23.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—la
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, i in box, la.—makes two
quarts flas custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clayt: n’a Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Besr'e
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2i. 6d,
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 2G3 and 280 PUT STREET. "
■ I 1
complete SFT
I tm
FJS
MiMMlii
133 ELIZABETH ST
Mec
til
t
machinery.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
si»; WITH AIL -,dd
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
' > ' ... ■ ' ' AT *
LOWEST COST!
c^
ho |S
eH* 3 "
LOCOMOT! VES, TUGS, LAU NCH &
ESTIMATED ECU COMPLEX
ROBERT COOPER M
mmm
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET,
• KING &
It.
T H O
may be consulted bO
Nervous Debility, Skin ar-'.d Corstft^'vjet*
Medical Establishment, 203. Eb**
near Bat h u rst-rifree— jr
Hours : 9 till 10 dailf* A
Dr. Thomas is the only medical e gi K/ ff
in Australia w bombas passed the
lish Physician and Surgeon. b n t yni
—Licentiate of the Royal College t
London, 18‘ ! 4; Member of tho
Surgeons, London, 1859.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 147—New Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 6, 1886.
Prlo»-e«.
An Historical Parallel.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, MARCH 6,1886.
The prosecution of Mr. H. M. Hyndman, the
Social Revolutionist, recalls some of the
most interesting and infamous chapters in
the English history of the last hundred
years. When William; Pitt, the Tory
ruled the destinies of Great Britain, and
scourged Europe with perpetual conspira-
cies and wars, having no other object than
to stamp out the results and principles of
the Frenoh Revolution, and to restore the
Bourbons with their system of Divine right
to oppress, he was mortally afraid of
debating societies! Pitt, who trampled
upon liberty in England as elsewhere with
ruthless violence, had suppressed all such
societies. He died; his funeral was on
a Saturday, and on the following Monday
the debating societies re-opened. Cyrus
Redding, in his “ Recollections,” narrates
how, previously, these meetings
“Could not be held, for fear of informers, who
were ready to swear to words which were certain
to be construed into sedition, or topics connected
with Jacobinical principles, the bugbears of the
time. Such were Parliamentary Reform, and,
indeed, the discussion of any political grievance
whatever.”
Honest Mr. Redding comments :
"The Government is timorous that cannot resist
the wordy attacks of the advocates of impracti-
cable tr iths. I have lived to see some of the
treasons yf that time becime the laws of the
land.”
Anachronistic Cyrus! How could “im-
practicable ” truths ever become the law of
the land? The prejudices of the dominant
class—imitated as they always are by a
stupid or servile following, consisting of the
jackals who feed on the scraps and entrails
of that great prey of plunder which the
privileged classes feed upon —are worth re-
calling. Henry Cockburn, in his “Memoirs,”
mentions how Dr. Alexander Adam, reotor
of the Edinburgh High School, when he was
a pupil there, was regarded with suspicion
and disfavour. The poor schoolmaster was
no politician: he lived in the past, and for
him the affairs of his own times had scarcely
any interest. Yet, because he, as a teacher
of Greek and Roman literature, discoursed
academically of liberty, the people, the ex-
pulsion of the Tarquins, and of republics,
his very pupils were encouraged to report
upon his discourses, and he was looked at
askance.
* * *
People who are foud of asserting that
Britons never shall he slaves are equally
fain to assert that Britons never have been
slaves. Why, they are slaves to-day, did
they but know the truth. There are enact-
ments in the Statute Book efficacious to
quench every supposed right which they
believe themselves permitted to enjoy.
These enactments are allowed to lie latent
until urgently required, hut they exist none
the less. The Constitution is no more pro-
tection to civil rights than a wall of wattle
and daub is against wild beasts. Such a
wall may look impenetrable from inside or
out, but when the attack is made, it shivers
to pieces. Parliament, whioh in no wise
really represents the people of England, can
always set aside the Constitution, and
always does so, when a real danger to pri-
vilege and plunder seems to threaten. A
charge of sedition never fails, except when
uo amount of packing can secure a jury
which will not resolutely oppose authority
““aye, even authority on the Bench. In
1793-4, the infamous State trials for
“sedition ” were held in Scotland, with
the result of sending to Botany Bay,
James Muir, a noble and spirited man.
The sedition in this case consisted in advo-
cating reform of the Constitution, and the
arguments used by reformers of his day
appear to have been pretty closely in a
parity with those of Hyndman and the
modern Socialists. For instance, Mr.
Gerald, another Scottish victim, in defend-
ing himself, said that all great men had been
reformers, “ even our Saviour himself.”
The Judge who presided was, of course, like
almost all men who have flown or crawled
to a position of advantage, a strong Tory—
that is to say, a strong advocate for holding
on to the advantage he, with others, had
gained. The prisoner’s plea merely excited
his Lordship’s derision. “ Muckle he made
o’ thaat,” chuckled Lord Braeield on the
Bench, when the reference to Christ, the
JACOB GARRARD, M.L.A.
(Photo, by Freeman.)
Reformer, was made. “Muckle he made
o’ thaat: He was hangit!”
a
At the pressnt day every aspirant for pro-
gressive reform is libelled as a Socialist.
This is merely a repetition of history. The
cant term earlier in the century was
“Jacobin.” Cockburn remarks, with re-
ference to the first years of the century,
that—
“Jacobinism was a term denoting everything
alarming and hateful, and every political objector
wasa Jacobin. No innovation, whether practical
or speculative, consequently no political or eco-
nomical reformer, and no religions dissenter, could
escape from this fatal word.”
One has only to be a regular reader of the
Colonial Tory newspapers—say, for instance,
the Sydney Morning Herald— to recognise
how exactly this disposition to traduce is
reproduced to-day, substituting the term
“ Socialist ” in lieu of “Jacobin.” Sydney
Smith bore testimony identical with that of
Cockburn. According to the former—
“ It is always considered a piece of impertinence
in England if a man of less than two or three thou-
sand a year has any opinions at all on important
subjects ; and, in addition, he was sure to be
assailed with all the Billingsgate of the French
Re volution-JacobiD, leveller, Atheist, Socinian,
incendiary, regicide, were the gentlest appellations
used; and any man who breathed a syllable
against the senseless bigotry of the two Georges,
or hinged at the abominable tyranny and persecu-
tion exercised against Catnolic Ireland, was
shunned as unfit for the relations of social life.”
Tricky Tories to-day are fond of enlarging
upon the perfection of civil and religious
liberty, which people in British communi-
ties are alleged to enjoy ; and a credulous
multitude are ever ready to applaud the
picture. Fiction it really is. There is, for
example, the supposed “right” of public
meeting. Why, it is only the other day that
in New South Wales, a professedly Liberal
Ministry allowed to be issued regula-
tions for the Sydney Domain, which effec-
tively placed all public meetings in that—the
only available open space—under a censor-
ship so absolute that in the metropolis of
one colony the “right” of public meeting
is at the present moment practically sus-
pended, and only permitted on sufferance.
This is merely in accordance with all prece-
dent. There is actually no right of either
public meeting or of untrammelled speech
inherent in British citizenship. Cockburn
tells that in Scotland there was in his earlier
days,
“No free, and, cansequently, no discussing:
Press.”
As to public meetings the same narrator
alleges
* 1 doubt if there was one during the 25 years
that succeeded the year 1795” (the year of the
French Revolution). “ Nothing was viewed with
such horror, as any political gathering not friendly
to existing institutions. No one could have taken
part in the business without making up his mind
to be a doomed man. No prudence could protect
against the falsehood or inaccuracy of spies, and
a first conviction for sedition by a judge-picked
jury was followed by 14 years’ transportation.”
Macaulay is equally emphatic and explicit
in the same theme. Pitt, he statps—
“ Put down English Jacobinism with the strong
hand. The Habeas Corpus Act was repeatedly
suspended. Public meetings were placed under
severe restraints. . . . Writers who pro-
pounded doctrines adverse to monarchy and
aristocracy were proscribed and punished without
mercy. It was hardly safe for a Republican to
avow his creed over a beefsteak and his bottle of
port at a cbophouse. The old laws of Scotland
Bgainst sedition- laws which were considered by
Englishmen as barbarous, and which a succession
of Governments bad suffered to rust, were! now
furbished up and sharpened anew. Men of cul-
tivated minds and polished manners were, for
offences which at Westmeath would have been
treated as mere misdemeanours, sent to herd
with felons at Botany Bay. Some reformers
whose opinions were extravagant and whose
language was intemperate, but who had never
dreamed of subverting the Government by phy-
sical force, were indicted for high treason and
were saved from the gallows only by the righteous
verdicts of j uries. This severity wss at the time
loudly applauded by alarmists, whom fear had
made cruel, but will be seen in a very different
light by posterity.”
• e ■
Macaulay’s reliance upon the verdiot of
posterity is to some extent unfortunate.
While nearly all agree in condemning the
particular abuses of power of those days,
there is, and has been, an extraordinary
alacrity in applying a close imitation of the
very same methods to modern times. For
example, as reoently as the year 1848, in the
present reign, when the Chartist agitation
was at its height, all the old methods of
Pitt’s tyranny were resorted to with alac-
rity. Mr. J. Sketchley, a veteran Chartist
still alive and now a member of the English
Social Democratic League, writis of those
days :
“The Government, while recognising the re-
public in France, prepared for the work of
slaughter ta prevent a republic at home. The
most tyrannical measures were adopted, and the
provinces again filled with spies—those dirty tools
of every execrable despotism. The infamous
Crown and Government Protection Bill was has-
tily passed, making the advocacy of republicanism
an act of felony. Not content with k this, they
brought to the front an old and obsolete Act for
the suppression of all open-air meetings.”
But it may be still insisted that these con*
ditions are past Jand gone, and that no
British Government would resort nowa-
days to such unconstitutional expedients.
Persons who argue thus are either inte-
rested liars or dwellers in a fool’s paradise
It is only requisite to refer to the treatment
of the Irish people during the past five
years to demonstrate that all the bad old
modes are as live as ever. What Pitt had
done in 1800, and the Cabinet of Lord John
Russell emulated in 1848, the Administra-
tion of Mr. Gladstone repeated in 1884-5.
And now, in 1836, we have the old system of
Btate prosecutions for sedition revived, and
a distinct disposition to resort to the old
methods for preventing free speech and
public open a’r meetings. These things
are worthy to be pondered over, and persons
who imagine that “ Britons never shall be
slaves” would do well to study history, and
investigate seriously wh*t protection for
political heresy—and 'all predelicticns for
reform are necessarily heresy—the.;iaws at
present subsisting really afford,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Berry as a Tory.
Mb. Gbaham Berry, lecturing on politics in
Melbourne, the other day, declared that it was
disgraceful that the three and a-half millions
people of Australia, as prosperous as any in Her
Majesty's dominions, or perhaps more so, should
suffer the poor hard-working people of Great
Britain to pay taxes for the defence of Australia
against Itussia, or any other power. If people
here wanted responsibility and power they must
pay for it, and he prepared to defend themselves
from any possible invasion, which, if federated,
the would be able to do. Mr. Bebby starts with a
fundamental error. His premises are vicious. It
would he disgraceful that the wealthy people of
Australia should suffer the poor hard-working
people of Great Britain to pay for the defence of
Australia against enemies provoked by Aus-
tralians. But, as a matter of fact, the case is en-
tirely different. The people of Australia have no
hereditary foes from whoso animosity they might
apprehend injury in the way of invasion or attack.
It is absolutely just that tho people of Great
Britain should bear the cost of defending Austra-
lians from invasions or other injury consequent
on quarrels with which the people of Australia
. have nothing to do. The entire argument of Mr.
Berry -is, in reality, radically unsound, and pro-
ceeding from so shrewd a reasoner, the perverse-
ness of the plea can only be ascribed to the desire
of Mr. Berry to make smooth his ways in
anticipation of his approaching appearance in
London. It is a shame, truly, that the poor hard-
working people of Great Britain should have to
bear the burden of heavy expenditure for military
and naval establishments, which these very people
dislike and deprecate. But it is not the Australian
people who are responsible in this matter. It is
the monarchical, aristocratic, and oligarchical
castes in the old country, in whose interest alone
existing burdens have been created, and existing
armaments have been rendered necessary. It is a
fact too little known that nearly every pound
sterling of the National debt of Great Britain has
bBen incurred in wars, undertaken either to
gratify the hereditary ambitions and animosities of
the House of Hanover, or in efforts to suppress
the spirit of freedom and democracy in some part
of the globe. The National debt originated in
loans raised to enable William of Orange to
carry on his ol 1 warfare as statholdcr of the Butch
against the French. It was augmented by the
campaigns of Marlborough—campaigns in which
the poor hard-working people of Great Britain
had no more interest than had the Chinese.
It was further swelled to maintain the
Hanoverian Georges in their hereditary do-
minions on the Continent. It was enor-
mously inflated by the obstinate determination
of crazy George 111. to crush the English colo-
nists in North America, when these rose to resist
gross and arbitrary exactions. It was nearly
doubled by similar efforts to strangle the birth of
democratic and republican freedom in France,
and in a reckless war thrust upon the first Napo-
leon, whose empire was resented as an invasion
of the hes editary principle of monarchy. And in
recent times it has been augmented afresh by ex-
peditions to punish savages, as in the Abyssinian
and Ashantee wars, and to quench national rights,
as in the instances of the Boer and Egypto-Soudan
campaigns. In none of these had the poor hard-
working people of Great Britain any interest,
unless it be granted that their interest w■ s identi-
cal with the cause of national liberties, and con-
sequently in direct antagonism to the objects
of wars into which they were dragged and seduced
by the wealthy orders. Mr. Graham Berry used
to pretend that he held Liberal principles. Did he
still care to maintain that farce, the proper moral
for him to inculcate would be that the free people
of Australia should make, to the best of their op-
portunities, common cause with the poor hard-
working people of Great Britain in their efforts to
shift the burden of taxation on to the shoulders of
the privileged classes which created the load, and
constantly refuses to sustain it.
» —
Twin Geniuses.
The licensed victuallers of Sydney are to be con-
gratulated upon securing the services of Mr.
Dalley as spokesman and apologist at their last
annual picnic. There is no person in the colony
who could more efficiently discharge the func-
tions which had to be fulfilled upon that occasion.
Even Mr. Daniel O’Connor must be regarded as
in some respects inferior to Mr. Dalley as an
after-dinner panegyrist, Mr. O'Connor s delivery
is more fervid, and he slaps on his enconiums with
a superior emphasis it may be. There is a breadth
of treatment in his manner of slobbering, which
is almost unapproachable. But it must be con-
fessed that in Mr. Dalley’s method there is a de-
licacy-a sort of light and shade—which is lacking
in Mr. O’Connor's style. As a professional flat-
terer Mr. O’Connor tears the passion to tatters.
Not only are all his geese swans, but they are
swans in the superlative. He is not content with
ascribing to the clacking flock which he under-
takes to glorify, the most snowy of plumage
and the extremest curvature of neck, but car-
ried away by the ecstacy of his admiration
he would not hesitate to outrage the unities by
celebrating in glowing periods the exquisite beauty
of voice possessed by the objects of his adulation.
Now, Mr. Dalley does not blunder in his detail.
His touches are light and airy. He may paint
geese as swans, but once the initial sacrifice of the
Yerities.has been made, he maintains a creditable
consistency, and the imaginary bird he describes is
a real swan—a specimen of the noblest description,
indeed, but always with the natural attributes.
Upon the whole, therefore, we repeat that the
licensed victuallers are to be congratulated.
There are, we believe, only two public men of any
notoriety who could be procured to undertake
with the requisite abandon and effrontery, to
deliver an eulogium upon the profession of grcg-
selling. These are Messrs. O’Connor and Dalley,
Of the two, Mr. Dalley is distinctly the superior
practitioner. Perhaps, however, it was more to
chance than to appreciation that the licensed vic-
tuallers owe their good fortune on this occasion-
Mr. O’Connor has, of late, to a certain extent re-
tired from this line of business. He seemed to have
surpassed himself, and attained the meridian of J
panegyristic achievement when, on acquiring the
status of a Minister of the Crown, his e(torts cul-
minated in the delivery of an impassioned eulo-
gium upon himself. This supreme achievement
appears to have exhausted Mr. O’Connob, at least
temporarily, as he has not since been heard to
splutter, save when in the Legislative Assembly
he invited the House to a review of ancient his-
tory, and was prematurely extinguished by a gust
of opprobrious laughter. Mr. Dalley, conse-
quently, has the field to himself, and may be ex-
pected to reign without compeer as the champion
professional spouter of the expiring picnic season.
Happy the community which is secure of so gor-
geous an alternation of talent! When it is denied
the fluent gushings of its O’Connob, it is blessed
with the liquid inconsequences of its Dagley.
Brethren in method, though rivals in renown.
Mr, Justice
Fbom one point of view the breakdown of the
Jennings-Robebtson Ministry is one of the most
laughable political events conceivable. Lord
Cabington is waiting, the clerk is in attendance,
most of the Ministry are present, and at the last
moment it is announced that there will be no per-
formance. What more farcical situation could
there be ? The only wonder is how His Excellency
could keep his countenance. But when we come
to the cause of the fiasco, the matter is a more
serious one. Two honourable and learned gentle-
men indulging in a most undignified scramble for
one particular office—that of Attorney-General of
New South Wales—not that that post is, either for
its inherent dignity or for its accompanying
emoluments, so much more desirable than any
other in the Cabinet—oh dear, no I—but because
unless rumour is in a more than usually men-
dacious mood, there is a chance of an almost im-
mediate vacancy on the Supreme Court Bench ;
and because, by a most vicious usage, the
Attorney-General for the time being has a first
mortgage on the appointment. Now, the modest
salary of ministerial office, coupled with, in a
: weak Ministry, its very precarious tenure, is a
1 poor thing compared with £2,500 for life,or a good
pension at the ead of a few years’ service.
Easy work, combined with an exalted dignity, that
| is a proposition evident to the very meanest
capacity, even to Ministerial intelligence. Hence
the row. What, then, are the claims of the rival
aspirants for office ? One is, indeed, an advocate
of undoubted powers, yet hardly fitted either by
age or dignity of manner for the judicial office—at
all events, as yet. The other, a pompous person-
age, whose unimpeachable elegance of attire and
exquisitely-fitting gloves form one of the principal
attractions of George-street, Sydney, any fine
afternoon between four and five o’clock, and who
also, we believe, for a short time adorned with his
portly presence the District Court Bench of the
colony. The political distinctions of both gentle-
men are, however, great, and approximately
equal. One has been in the Assembly for about
four months, most of which time has been wasted
by one would-be Premier after another attempting
to form a Ministry; the other has for a consider-
ably shorter period served his bleeding country in
that Upper nouse, which he has discovered to be
(since his own elevation to it) the most distin-
guished, the most useful, and the most intelli-
gent Upper Chamber in Australasia. Finally,
each gentleman has filled the exalted office
now forming the bone of contention for a period
of something under two months, during which
in each case nothing but ordinary routine work
has been done. Why, when recently in Victoria,
a gentleman, known for years as an active politi-
cian, who had served in several Administrations
(and a Victorian Administration generally lasts
longer than the three months which now seems to
be the rule in the city of the Beautiful Harbour),
and who had had wide experience in that making
of laws which is perhaps a more arduous task
than the interpretation of them—when this gen-
tleman was raised to the Bench there all parties,
all divisions of the Press united in denouncing it
as a gross political job. What would they say of
that which seems to have been contemplated in
Sydney ? What we say is that such an appointment
would be a political job beside which that of Mr.
Justice Kebeebd would sink into absolute insig-
nificance.
-
A Colonial Peerage.
Considering that from time immemorial mon-
archs have staked their very existence, and poured
out like water the blood of their subjects, to steal
or retain a province, the anxiety of the aristo
cratle faction in Great Britain to promote Imperial
Federation as contrasted with the indifference of
the English Liberals and their occasional prompt-
ings to the Australian colonies to set up for them-
selves, is quite comprehensible. It was a Liberal
Administration which withdrew Imperial troops
from Australasia. It is an aristocratic idea to
6upply the place of troops with a body of Colonial
Peers. Next to an army of occupation, an in-
fluential corps of traitors is the most useful force
to maintain in a community which it is designed
to keep in a position of dependence. Lord Rose-
beby, who professes to be that impossible crea-
ture, a Radical Peer, is credited with being the
originator of the idea of .instituting a Colonial
Peerage. But as it was subsequent to his visit to
these colonies that the conception was made, it
seems probable that it had its origin among our
own snobocracy. Australians will, we trust, never
submit to be insulted by the alleged distinction of
a few individuals. They have had warnings suf-
ficient in the choice which has been made for the
minor “ distinctions ” heretofore allotted to colo-
nists. They have seen the meanest creatures
among the colonists selected for royal honour.
They have, moreover, the warnings of history as
applied to existing British peerages—a narrative
which shows that peerages have in a majority of
cases been the rewards of female prostitution or ,
male debasement.
—
Bis Friend and His Country
Sib Jo n Robebt3on’s reason for abandoning Sir
Patrick Jennings when the attempt to form a
Coalition Government was comparatively a
settled thing, throws a lurid light upon the prin-
ciples which govern the former Knight in his
political relations. His conception of loyalty is
directly antagonistic to the ideas which have been
endorsed and applauded by tho universal consent,,
of mankind for 2000 years. Sir John, with a fine
Independence, repudiates the systems of Spartan
virtue and of Roman public spirit. With him the
State may count for a good deal, but a friend
counts for more. He prefers loyalty to a friend,
over devotion to his country. The sacrifice by
Brutus of the life of his own son to the public
weal must appear to Sir John to have been an
unmanly and unnatural desertion and betrayal of
a primary duty. The Coalition was to rescue the
colony from grievous and imminent disasters. It
was practically arranged. The country was as
good as saved, according to the idea of Sir John.
But a political hanger-on, in the person of G. B.
Simpson, interposed his claims to office. If
the arrangement were clinched, he (Simpson)
would regard himself as sacrificed. Brutus
would not have hesitated for an instant. The
whine of the friend would have quickly been
changed into the shrieks of the sacrificed. And
Sir John aleo did not V esitate an instant. To save
the country and abandon a retainer, or to stick to
the retainer and let the country go to destruction,
were the alternatives before him. Sir John in-
stantly elected to prefer his dependent to his
country, and with amazing effrontery calls upon
gods and men to admire his virtue. Anything
more lamentable we do not remember in the
whole history of modern politics. Such things
have been done repeatedly. But the chief actor
has always had the sense to recognise, and the
decency to hide, his shame. Sir John is the only
public man known to our observation or reading
who has dared to maintain that to sacrifice one’s
duty to th© State in deference to one’s obligations
to a follower is an instance of virtue deserving of
applause.
■—— ————
A Cabinet of CTontradietions,
Political jealousy, not less absurd and contempt-
ble in its operation than disastrous in its effects,
has brought a New South Wales Ministry into
existence under the nominal leadership of Sir
Patrick Jennings. Individually it is a stronger
Cabinet than that of Sir John Robertson; col-
lectively, it is—if such a thing be possible—weaker.
It is a Coalition Cabinet in that members of en-
tirely opposite views and opinions on cardinal
points are included, but it has not that strength
which abandonment by parties of principle and
mutual condonation of abuse and condemnation
is usually able to secure. The disgrace of a Coali-
tion has been undergone without the attainment
of compensating force. With regard to matters
financial it is worse than feeble. Sir Patrick has
yet to earn reputation as a Treasurer, and he will
be as sailed by the conflicting opinions of his col-
leagues— Dibbs, Garvan, and Copeland. The two
former are the most inveterate foes in the
Assembly. Mr. Garvan’s best speeches have
been his incisive and bitter denunciations of Mr.
Dibbs and what the latter was pleased to call his
“policy.” Twice has a Ministry in which the
png member for Murrumbidgee was a pro-
minent figure, been overthrown by the pitilessly
keen logie of the member for Eden, and now
behold Goliah of Gath, the financial Philis-
tine, and David, his political destroyer, are
to fight under the same standard I To do so
one or other mffst fcompl.tely abandon ail pre-
vious opinions and habits. The lion must lie
down with the lamb. Mr. Dibbs has made light of
the deficiency, possibly because it is the off-
spring of his own Administration, and airily pro-
poses to fly a Treasury kite so as to postpone
the evil day. Mr. Garvan has committed him-
self to the opinion that the whole amount must
b 8 cleared off in one year. If the Dibbs “ policy”
guides the Cabinet, Mr. Garvan s former con-
demnation will recoil upon his own head; if on
the contrary the Garvan proposals are adopted,
Mr. Dibbs, by giving his consent, will be a party
to a vote of censure on himself. Mr. Garvan’s
inclusion in the team was a risky experiment, but
the allotment of a portfolio to Mr. Dibbs was a
fatal blunder. The latter created the deficit,
denied its magnitude and even existence during
the g'eneral election, and now stands charged
by Mr. Burns, the Robertson Treasurer, not
only with the grossest political negligence, but
also with “ transferring to the loan account
charges which dearly should be made against
consolidated;” accusations which have not been
refuted or ever.', denied. It is useless to urge
that these tilings should be no bar-Mr.
Dibbs is not Treasurer. His very presence
will discredit the Ministry from Twofold Bay
to the Tweed, for critics are more implacable out
of the House than in it. And of Mr. Garvan it
may be said that unless he now refuses consent to
the continuance of those abuses which he has so
ruthlessly condemned, his political character
will suffer for every day of his adhesion
to the party permitting these abuses. It will
be of interest to notice his conduct with re-
gard to the “cooking” of railway and tramway
acoounts, which, in the previous Parliament, he so
plainly proved. Will he now be a party to this
“oooking ? ” Nor can Mr. Want’s inclusion be
now considered a wise step, in view of the fact
that it is only a fortnight since he proved that
personal dignity was dearer to him than political
expediency. It seems impossible that this Cabinet
of contradictions can last for any length of time.
Nor is it to be desired that it should do so, for its
members being particles possessed of mutual re-
pulsion, can only be made to cohere by an over-
powering desire for Place, Pay, and Power. In
their fervid anxiety to exclude Sir Henry Parkes
from office, the leaders of the Coalition have
simply played into his hands. A proportion of
electors may justifiably, and, indeed do, distrust
Sir Henry, but this Cabinet will bo regarded with
still greater distrust and aversion, and while Sir
Henry is known to be a man of capacity, it is
equally clear that it would be utterly absurd t>
expect anything approachi g statesmanship from
that body of which the aristocratic and Conserva-
tive Sir Patrick Jennings is the ornamental
figure-head.
An indignant correspondent, writing to tho Syd-
ney Telegraph, urges against Sir Henry Parkes
the fact of his having passed the Treason Felony
Act, in consequence of which Irishmen could not
obtain employment in the colony. This corres-
pondent is not correct in his deduction. He has
mistaken the cause and iffeot. Irishmen were
hated, and feared exceedingly by the bigots of
those days, and this distrust and hatred produr a
tho Act, which is the chiefest political crime i
Sir Henry Parkes’ Legislative career. We ha
frequently, and do now, count this as d 6
stain upon Sir Henry’s record, but at thesa
time would point out the probability that a siraT 6
measure would have been passed had a Dibbs
Stuart, or a Robertson been at the head ‘ f
affairs. In those days there was no such thine- 01
a Liberal paper in Sydney. The Bulletin hUs
not arisen, and the whole power of the P a
was devoted to the worship of Imperialism S®
O’Farrell incident made the fires of bigotry a a
“loyalty” burn with tenfold vigour, and th
Herald, more effusive in its lickspittling th* 6
than now, fed the flame. A “loyalty ” Act w
demanded, and this Sir Henry supplied: to-d 88
more liberal sentiments prevail, and even thoT
who then howled for the measure, now cast th 6
disgrace of its enactment on the Premier whn
passed it. He must take his share of the obloquv
although he but responded to the bigotry of the
time. He was base enough to bend the knee to
the people. Since then we have had a Ministry
which did not scruple to rip up the Constitution
and override the code of national justice in order
to bend the knee to Imperialism by sending a few
hundred deluded men to share in a nigger-battue
in the Soudan.
When, a month or two ago, “ Jack ” Want
took oliicB as Attorney-General of the Robertson-
O'Connor Government, ke provided himself, at a
cost of £3O, with the orthodox Attorney-General's
gown, and when, in the words of the conventional
draper’s advt, “inconsequence of having to leave
the premises” he “sold off,” he disposed of his
gown of oliice to Mr. G, B. Simpson; tne incoming
Attorney-General, for a consideration of £lO, con-
ditionally on the latter gentlemans agreeing to
re-transfer the garment at the same price to the
vendor should he (J.w.) return to offl.'e witnin a
year Jack further laidawsger of £lO that he
would again be Attorn y-General within that
period, as things eventuated, Mr. Simpson only
neid office for a few weeks, and so the ingenuous
Jack, who is once more in office as Attorney-
General, gets back his gown for nothing. Here,
then, is the real reason of the split-up of the Jen-
niDgs Kobertson Coalition. We are now prepared
to hear of Sir Patrick going out over a waistcoat.
It is an historical fact that Parkes almost politi-
cally wrecked himself about a bedstead.
The Blue Ribbon Army have pirated the colour of
Wolf e s Schnapps Trade Mark.
Sustain the vigour and elasticity of the system
with the inestimable tonic Wolf e s Schnapps.
T f * B i TIIS 0T SuBSCaiPTioN to Thb Bullitt.
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year. 12a m*
quarter, 6s. 6d.-In advance. ' a ‘ 8d -:
Thb Advbbtisino Batss are 5a. per i nnh .
special positions In the paper 7s. 6dnL
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. perLnh*
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise*
ments ordered for periods, as follows
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Leri
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive inaerHrmlr
nnnt r °KrF‘ : iF or 52 consec utive insertions, 25°pS
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise*
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent ini
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payabie to W. H. Tbaill ; for amounts
under Jl, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony mw be sent, if more convenient.™ 80
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9a.
Small Bottle, , [la. 03.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shilltnars per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB XNYALIDP.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
89. pur Bottle
SUM,
In Flasks, dottier, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
Tire Key Brand, and Henke# Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGBST SIS*.
'IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY,
OLD AND MBLLOW,
£n Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
feerge and Btarket Streets
SYDNhX


Editor Bulletin.— “Sir,—l think you must
have understood the gist of my complaint
Suien you say ‘ What a correspondent from the
West writes about is beyond our sphere.’
What I meant to convey to you was that, under the
iodine- Ireland, the B.M. Herald publ.tshes on all
m-nasions a string of diabolical outrages; that it
and other papers take their Irish news from anti-
Trish journals, and that though every week con-
o+itutionaJ meetings have been held whereat the
Corrupt and dishonest means by which the Union
Art was carried, and the present grievances of
fha Irish people are properly set forth—the only
rnaetings we read of in the S.M. Herald in con-
npction with Ireland are those of criminals
nf the iro3t cowardly stamp. We are never
told about the ciuelties that are perpetrated
Her Dilemma.
GRANNY (log.): “MY PICTURE OF TRISH BOYCOTTERS IS A NICE DELICATELY-HANDLED THING; NOW, LET’S SEE; HOW SHALL I PAINT OUR OWN BOYCOTTERS?
“A letter from the N.S.W. Trades and Labour Council was read, which stated that it had been determined to boycott Mr. Shadier. "—(Sydney Newspaper Report.)
“The Sydney Stonemasons’ Union has declared Jennings’ Contracts ‘black’ for two years. "—(Ibid.)
on the people and drive them to exaspera-
tion. What of the ejectment processes, for
example, that have been served during the
last winter as numerously as when Mr. G ladstone
said ‘ The landlords have scattered broadcast their
sentences of death, and trey fall like snowflakes over
the land,’ &o. Or, wbat of the evictions that fol-
low?—the driving of families from their homes
and only means of subsistence by the armed ser-
vants of the (landlords) Crown ? We are not told
that those people had expended time, money, and
labour in the improvement of their holdings, and
that all is confiscated by English law; because,
foorsooth, Providence had the impertinence not
to ordain that the land Bhould never ceafie bring-
ing forth as much as would maintain in luxury
those drones, who, in the hive of industry, not
onlysap up the earnings of the working-man, but,
by taxing his efforts (charging rent on his im-
provements), keep the country from yeai* to year
on the very blink Of starvation. All the ire of
English politicians and journalists seem to be only
for those who retaliate, and for Mr. Parnell,
because he does not, Ilk# themselves, keep howling
into the deaf ears of a suffering people to keep
still, but rather elects to make them so, and to
put an end to outrages by the very efficacious
means of removing their cause. That notoriously
infamous man, James Carey (who hated the move-
ment under Mr. ParnelJ, and tried to ruin it in the
sight of the world, seizing his first opportunity, as
Queen’s witness, to state that he believed the
funds, which supplied the Invincibles with sinews
of war, eame from the Land League organisation),
admitted on cross-examination that Brady and
others could not see the necessity of joining his
‘ society ’ until open agitation was put a stop to by
Mr. Forster. Very well. The Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, with reference to the late London riots,
has pointed out very clearly that, ‘ln the eyes of
justice, it is not those who strike the blow are
reprehensible, but rather he or those who caused
Its necessity.’ One of England’s greatest Consti-
tutional writers, the D.T. says, it was who laid
down this sweeping dictum. So that, according
to ’England s greatest constitutional writer,’ it is
Mr. Forster, add not the ignorant, brutal Joe
Brady,who ought to have been tried for the Phoenix
Park murders. But taking outrages of the same
magnitude in Ireland as, say, those committed
lately in the London streets, compare how the
comments run in each case from the.pens of such
editors as of the S.M. Herald, Daily Telegraph,
News, &o„ and it will be seen that, instead of ex-
planations and half-hearted condemnations, there
are wholesale exaggerations and demands for the
most stringent forms of coercion. And so it is
with the Press in England (from which block I dare
say the Sydney chips have sprung). The howl for
coercion is put down by a willing Legislature
granting all that is asked for. Thus fuel is added
to the fire of discontent in Ireland. Meetings are
suppressed ; in other words, the safety-valves are
hermetically sealed. Mr. Forster and the Press are
jubilant, when, lo I a terrible explosion takes
place in the Phoenix Park. Then there is a yell for
coercion. The hangman is busy for a time, and
English rule in Ireland starts again at zero to go
over the same old circle of failure. All this time
one man has been zealously working to remove the
cause of poverty, disloyalty, and crime, and history
will yet record that Mr. Parnell was the harbinger
of peace between England and Ireland, and that
his work was greatly impeded by the reptile English
Press, Permit me, before concluding, to say a word
re Irish Loyalty The Sydney D.T. accused Dr.
O'Doherty, M.L.C., of Brisbane, of duplicity be-
cause he ‘speaks something much milder, much more
constitutional, and, more loyal in Australia than in
Ireland.’ Admitting what the D.T. evidently
wished to convey, without telling a direct He, viz :
that Dr. O'Doherty makes disloyal speeches in
Ireland, and loyal speeches in Australia, what
does it prove ? I think it is an instance of a rebel
becoming ioyal on ‘touching the sacred soil of
freedom.’ It proves, however, that the Irish
people do not want any parleys about loyalty,
and as one who has lately come from
amongst them, I can assure you suoh Is the
case. Of course, the Queen is respected by
the Irish, just as other women are who respect
themselves-respecially those old ladies who have
endeavoured to bring up large families in th«
ways of rectitude and honour. If she graoioualv
nnf 6 /!^ 81 ' the island it is considered that she does
not do so gratis. Then there is no need for obei-
lnvaltWntl l hi r n ParL But lfc has beon said that
Quee ? means respeot for the insti-
°^ unt u y * In that Bense the people
wi*a a o ® H lo 7 a1 ’ l h ®. y have no reason to beother-
Znni A d nrt viOUB reasons the Irish are not
th6 v were, while the institutions
oti: their country are those of landlordism. Dolioe-
mvrfi« 0 o or i loUBes, *? lld Prisons, I should change
my brogue and pawn those ‘ ancient jrarments of
my ancestors (which would be so useful in the
B ot able to become the founder of
my ..own house) in order to avoid the shame of
being known as an Irishman. The Irish leaflet?
has said (and he is not remarkable for extravagant
language) that, if the Irish people had Home Rule*
‘ they would not be more disloyal than they are at
present.’ Cardinal Moran says that they will be-
come loyal and strengthen the Crown—l suppose
in its wars—to wit; the bloody Boudan fiasco. He
also told us, on his late arrival from Ireland, that
Mr. Parnell is ‘ loyal to the Crown.’ The utter-
ances of Doctor Croke, or Doctor Nulty may be
worthy of notice on the subject; but I would
rather take his Eminence as an authority on low
bodies at a dance v. tights at a trapeze—which
produces the worse results—than on a question of
latter-day Nationalism. Tours truly,—P. J. O’D,’*
February 23rd, 1886.
Advise all your friends to use Wotfe’s Bthntfsp9>


Personal
Items
The Mayor of Sydney has been “laid up
With a bad cold.” And yet we didn’t think there
was water enough in the city to make his feet wet.
Thd S.F, Wasp asserts that Mark Twain,
the jester, is dead and that the only present repre-
sentative of the name is Mark Twain, the money-
grubber. Rough this.
“Well, I don’t know,” said Lord 8., sitting
discontentedly on a log at Government House,
whilst they were caparisoning his charger; “they
call this a sinecure! Why, I’ve had something to
do, once, nearly every day I’ve been here.”
Long ago, in one of the other colonies,
upon the very day an ex-Minister received Royal
permission to entitle himself “ honourable ”
throughout the colony, he was posted a defaulter
at Tattersall’s for the fourteenth time.
A writer in the Sydney D.T. says:—
"Parkes is in his senile days.” Well, judgingfrom
the style of the screed, we think it would be saner
to travel on the senility of Sir Henry than on the
ability of his critic. That is, if you wanted to travel
far.
“Marshal” Booth, of the Salvation
Harmy, has left us to go to Europe. Now will be
the time for the Devil to make hay. We are will-
ing to wager he will have paid the Harmy with In-
terest for all their insults before the Marshal has
returned.
A reminiscence of the Princes’ visit to
Australia.—Time, 5 a.m.—Princes in bed. Prince
G.: “I say, Edward, how many times did you
dance ?” Prince Ed. (with a groan): “Five times.”
Prince G.: “ Who with ?” Prince Ed. (shuddering):
“Five grandmothers.”
Mr. Wilkinson, the visiting magistrate at
Lord Howe Island, has in his possession an object
of great historical interest—the Bible which the
mutineers of the Bounty took with them to Pit-
cairn Island. It was bound by one of their number
in wood, held together with strips of tough bark.
“ Her Majesty the
Queen has authorised Mr.
H. E. Cohen, late Minister
of Justice, to retain the
title of Honorable within
the colony of N.S.W.”
Bosh! We’ll bet a hat
that Queen Victoria has
never heard of the Hon.
H. B. Cohen in her life.
Further, we’re ready to
wager that the colony of
N.S.W. has been a per-
fect blank to her ever
since a madman tried to
kill one of her sons. Even
at that period, Her Ma-
jesty could not by any
means be induced to be-
lieve that the colony of
N.B.W. was not the capi-
tal of Queensland, a
suburb of Melbourne
Bituated in New Zealand,
near Van Diemen’s Land.
“His Honor Judge
Ward and Mrs. Ward con-
ducted the service in the
Invercargill Baptist
Chapel last Sunday,” says
a N.Z. paper. This inci-
dent ia of the happiest
augury for the future of
both the law and the Gos-
pel. We have been accus-
tomed to hear the legal
fraternity designated the
“Devil’s Brigade.” If,
however, the heads of the
Jirofession will only fol-
ow the pious example
set by Judge Ward,
clearly this injurious
appellation must be
dropped. It can hardly
fail to strengthen the
heart of an anxious liti-
gant to behold seated on
the judicial bench, be-
fore wbichhis cause is to
be tried, the “dear
brother” whom he sat
under on the previous
Sundayatthe Tabernacle.
The solemn and edifying
spectacle of a Judge and
a Judge’s wife praying
and preaching in concert
at a Baptist chapel can-
not too soon or too
often be repeated.
Moruya, N.S.W., was nearly reduced to
a memory by bush-fires lately. We hope the pro-
perty of our old friend, the proprietor of the
Examiner, was spared, though he has called us
hard names before now. If It was not, the giant
gooseberry and the five-legged calf will have lost
a good friend.
It is always pleasant to hear a legislator
assert his integrity and independence, even if he
gets reckless in his grammar while so doing. The
renowned Tommy Bent, cabbage gardener and
M.P., of Brighton (Vic.), told his constituents the
other evening that he had “never laid on the
hearth-rug of any man to get into a Ministry.’”
The family of Mr. Gladstone, says an
English paper, is an exceedingly happy one, and
this arises in a large measure from the fact that
each one has chosen his or her own mate without
interference on the part of either the present
Premier or his wife. If this were the case in many
other families there would be less work for the
Divorce Court.
The Americans are furious, and no
wonder. They’ve discovered—and here’s an idea
for Lord Carington—that on last 4th of July the
President that shook hands with them at the rate
of 35 a minute at the White House was an India-
rubber dummy resembling Cleveland, and driven
by compressed air. The real President was in a
side room all the time playing poker. Whether
Republican institutions can stand this strain re-
mains to be seen.
Mr. Dailey considers Major Macdonald, of
the Sydney Lanceahs, one of the first soldiers of
the age, because “ his education has consisted in
reading good books and riding good horses.”
Judged by this standard, Field Marshal H.R.H. the
Prince of Wales is an indifferent commander. He
seldom rides anything more dangerous than a
Shetland pony, while, as for looks, he prefers Zola
to the most convincing pamphlets issued by the
Christian Evidence Society.
How we wish it had been ever our lot to
out our mutton in the house of Vanderbilt! Ac-
cording to an observant banqueter, “All the
tureens, dishes, plates, knives, forkes, and spoons,
were of of gold or of silver gilt.” A gold knife
might not be of much use with a tougn chicken,
but it would do splendidly for slipping up the
sleeve. Even one saltspoon would represent a
week’s work. Ye gods! What a field-day Lord
Derby could have among plate like that!
Mr. William Liddiard, the gentleman who
is charged with murdering a man, and putting his
body into a stone-weighted bag, at Pimlico, N.S.W.,
was in the habit of calling his victim “ an Irish-
man and a Fenian.” The other fellow did not, it
seems, look either, but Liddiard maintained he
was both because “ he was against the colonials
going to the Soudan.” It is logicians of this
pa ttern we should just expect to grab a tomahawk
and chop the head off a man for disagreeing with
them ’
Speaking of the spurious Louis Cihsar de
Bourbon, who for many years posed with profit as
the grandson of Ferdinand VII., of Spain, a little
Melbourne paper (often inadvertently’ funny)
says ‘he was really the son-in-law of a Parisian
photographer.” This Is a droll way of disposing of
*i 0 a noblG .i sj irtb ' shall ex-
direct 0 deseendan^ a Bf'SKSiS
whereas, as a matter of fact, his wife’s aunt keeps
a tripe shop.”
We are sorry for poor Father Hug-hard,
whose painfully significant name gives him away
ftt one©. According to Svdnpv tt’rffman’s
Journal (RC.)—which declares that the priest
“did a wrong to society, whose law he broke; a
wrong to the father whose rights be invaded: and
a wrong to the child whose disobedience he en-
couraged;”—the reverend offender received an
exeat from his priestly office a week before he
distinguished himself by abetting the locking-up
of the girl in the Bourke convent?
James Anderson, who received a gold
o h o a „?A?ShI?! r ay nCr af hSf b“!n SKKjSdS
the Government Railwavs but his sivht failed
him, anJhe was of no turthir use to the Depart-
ment. The police found him wandering about the
town and took him to the lock-up. Is there any
wonder we boast of our civilisation when all we
can do for a man like that is to run him into gaol
as If he were a criminal?
u,,- . , „ , . .
hi^f'ir^ oll^ 1 la B * l W6 ? e]i „
himself on Mount Wellington, Tasmania, for 48
hours, but was ultimately found, not much the
worse for his mishap. The result might easily
have been different, for on the summit of the
mountain is a rude monument to the memory of
a certain naval officer, wh-o. 40 years ago, while
roaming in the locality, disappeared and was
never afterwards heard of. There is in Hobart a
8 a io«t b y t i b ett b tSl b ;oS&/ orre “ 01 ‘ ot h,s 0Wb ’
a- a i w-i y ‘ .
Sir Salmon Wilson stood a iive-to-one
chanee of losing his prospective son-in-law a few
weeks back. Young Lord Cairns is among those
who go down to the sea in ships. Nice ships—with
expensive fittings and elaborate culinary arrange-
ments. The Cairns yacht, it appears, encountered
a pretty stiff storm in the Bay of Biscay, and for a
while it looked as though vessel, Cairns, cham-
FAITHFUL BEYOND DEATH.-THE STORY OF A MISSIONARY, IN THREE CHAPTERS.
The Missionary.
The Reception Committee.
VOICE FROM WITHIN: “My friend,
you forgot to say grace.”
pagne, and all would fall victims to the fury of
the waves. We are happy to state that Miss
Wilson’s intendu escaped from his peril. But the
time may come when he’ll wish that yacht had
gone down. Who can tell what the future may
bring forth ?
The high-handed style in which Victorians
are chucking—yes, chucking-away knighthoods
is something to ponder over. Francis Ormond,
Graham Berry, James Service, have, one and all,
hung down their blushing heads and coyly
whispered “ No.” Even Peter Lalor, who fought
and bled against his Queen in the brave davs of
old, is said to have sternly refused to “ rise Sir
Peter ” upon two occasions. We admire the spirit
which animates these gentlemen. At any rate,
they are proof against the paltry temptation of a
knighthood. But let us hope that the Home
Government is not going to “ spring a bit.” There
is one among that quartette—we won’t say which—
who would accept a dukedom.
We are sorry to see the following notice in
a late number of that well-conducted paper, Ue
Wilcannia (N S.W.) Times: —“The bank having
foreclosed on me, this wifi probably be the last
issue of this journal under the present proprietor-
ship. I beg to thank heartily those who have so
liberally supported me in the past, and those who
have paid their accounts regularly. Had all my
clients done this, probably this termination would
not have taken place. During the many years I
have resided in Wilcannia I have met with much
kindness, and made many true friends, to whom I
reluctantly say farewell, and I can assure them the
many kindnesses I have experienced will ever hold
a principal place in my heart. Walterus Brown.”
When Graham Berry (who, on the prin-
ciple of political expediency, has much humoured
the Salvation Harmy), was leaving Hobart wharf
the other day, after the close of the Federal
council sittings, a big detachment of Salva-
tionists turned up with the big drum and howled
hymns and hallelujahs to the ex-Victorian Pre-
mier. Graham, when he saw the demonstration
was meant for him, assumed the holiest look that
ever adorned the visage of any human being.
You’d never have thought that the recipient of
such an ovation could be identical with the
perky and giddy gentleman of 02, who, as with
white tile perched on three hairs he sauntered
along the Hobart streets arm in arm with his
proteqe, Mr. Justice Kerferd, made all the girls
exclaim: “ What a wioked-looking old man!”
Some years ago, while her husband was in
gaol for sheep-stealing, Mrs. Wilkie, the attractive
wife of a Dubbo grazier, struck up a liaison with
•Mr. John Oxley Norton, the local police magis-
trate. She became jealous of her lover, whom
she interviewed with a loaded pistol, and shot
right through the brain. To the astonishment of
the surgeons, the victim lived on and was
conscious for weeks, but one day he suddenly fell
back dead. Mrs. Wilkie was tried for murder, but
being a'pretty woman’it was concluded that she
had committed manslaughter only, and so she
escaped with two or three years’ gaol, part of
which term she spent in Darlinghurst, where she
fascinated and bore a child to a son of one of the
prison officials. Last week, in Sydney, Wilkie
divorced the irrepressible masher, his wife.
Here is something new in the obituary
line. We quote it from the Melbourne Age :
“ He longed to drink the spiced wine,
Within Jerusalem new;
Himself to it he did resign.
And bade the world adieu.”
This sentiment is both candid and cheerful. We
like it much better than the usual talk about
leaving friends in tears and going to the cold and
silent tomb, and such like lugubrious stuff. The
idea of this gamesome ghost resigning himself to
the spiced wine “in Jerusalem new” leaves
nothing to be desired on the score of humour. If
all who go to the new Jerusalem are like him, it is
high time they had a Blue Ribbon movement up
there.
Sporting men will be shocked to hear that
Alf Joseph, the bookmaker, of Sandhurst, is a
possible candidate for that dubious commodity
known as “ Parliamentary honours.” Let us trust
the story is as unfounded as that which ascribed
legislative longings to Handsome George. What
agony did we endure when it was first whispered
abroad that Rignold intended to stand for Colling-
wood! We thought of him in Henry V. madly
dashing once more into the breach, dear friends—
and in the still, small hours of the night we would
start up in bed and cry—“ Can this thing be?”
We pictured Paolo Macari vainly endeavouring
to catch the Speaker’s glittering eye, and shrank
back from the vision in affright. And. after all,
there were no grounds for our fears. It is from
the stage only that G. R. will continue to labour
for his fellow-men. Not as an M.L.A. The shade
of Shakespeare has, at present, no need to blush
for the gifted delineator of Harry of England.
It has often been a puzzle to us to fix the
nationality of that eminent advocate and would-
be politican, Mr. Colonna-Close. We know he at
one time dwelt in Russia, and we have heard it
said that his pupil the present Czar (the Czare-
witch) seldom smoked a cigarette or projected an
Indiad invasion without consulting him, and from
this we had taken him for a Russian. We have
fogged out the history of the great Italian house
of Colonna, but cannot find where the Close closed
in with them. We, therefore, concluded he was
not an Italian emissary for the Pope. But next he
speaks French, and you think you can trace the
courtly ways of the Empire, or that he is a Bour-
bon prince—or he tackles you with so true a Ger-
man accent, and has such a military bearing that
he might have been aide-de-camp to Von!Moltke, or
private secretary to Kaiser Bill. But now the
murder is out. The Armidale Chronicle an-
nounces that Mr. Killarney-Close will be a candi-
date for Yass Plains.
Had the Jennings-Robertson Government
been formed, it was to have been called the “ Haw t-
G— D—l Ministry.”
Mr. G. H. Traill is a gentleman who has no
particular reason to give thanks to Fortune. He
was manager of the Oriental Bank in Melbourne.
It burst. He was manager of the Melbourne
branch of the Commercial Bank of Adelaide,
which institution has now “gone a rocketer.”
Thank goodness, we have always too powerful a
fbirist on us to put money in any bank. The cause
or failure of the C. B. of A. is in connection with
mismanagement at the head office, with which
Mr. Traill bad nothing to do. Mismanage-
ment in this case means simply gambling. It is of
no consequence whether the phrase used be this
or the less offensive one of speculation if the
money was lqst. By the failure of the bank much
misery has been caused to the smaller depositors.
Among others there is the case of two sisters who
have lost by it an annuity of £lOO, which was all
they had to live upon. When one reads of these
things they can hardly wonder at people keeping
money in old stockings or lolly-eanisters.
Prince Bismarck has received from the
Pope the Order of Christ. This, of course, was
because the Chancellor flattered his Holiness by
referring the affair of the Carolines to his arbitra-
tion. Not long since, if he had wanted to present
Bismarck with any Order it would have been the
Order of Judas—even if he had to create such an
Order especially for Bismarck’s benefit. But even
Infallibility can sail with the tide and change with
the times. The curious and significant part of the
affair is that, according to the statutes of the
Order of Christ, a declaration of faith is necessary
on the part of the recipient. As, however, it
would be the foolishest kind of folly to expect
this from Bismarck the Pope has granted him a
dispensation from the ceremony. How the man
of Blood and Iron must laugh in his helmet at all
this solemn mummery I But it proves one thing
clearly—which is that, rigid and unalterable as she
seems, the Church of Rome is the most elastic of
all the churches when it comes to yielding a
shadowy point of ritual for a practical gain. We
can conceive circumstances under which the Pope
might canonise even John Davies —such as if he
took the whole Orange Brotherhood of the colony,
with the Black Chapter thrown In, down the har-
bour in steamers and drowned them.
a rmthetto \ a in rr
ai ii° 0 r / n „ nl lro , m Her gOtt
m ed rode searly5 early 80(5
Astern JP South
consumptiom from which he wi^sufffrinl 00 w r
reached the Hergott on the evening of the Ito
j nB t., and was admitted to the railwav
where a tew horns he dfed!
something more than pathetic in this. The det«; 8
mination which carried him onward through ton
lonely bush over miles of barren country with
It.*
beat:- * V ° r a bero
In that dying bushman’s bosom lodged the spirit
Q of a n kni s h t, P rlt
0f a gallant who would conquer ere he perished in
th© fljfhtj
’Neath his ragged woollen jumper, ’neath his tat-
. „ tered shirt, there ran
All the blood which makes a hero, heat the pulses
-.of ?. man *. _ ..
1 110 ™ his pallid lips no murmur ever sighing found
.. . „
As he battled for the yict ry which he hoped before
him lay; K ' slore
U wefbThSder 1111 companion - I)8ath -rode
T -Toy I Lord Carington aa a newspaper man!
In the Sydney Echo of Saturday week annpn,.Ui
an article, headed “Life in Indffi; W A
His Excellency Lord Carington.”
Whether the alleged literary contribution referred
by bis lordship specially for the
pious little. fly-paper of Hunter-street, or whether
the ecclesiastical authorities of that holy hni
obscure print scissored and annexed it
unable to say. We can only remark that theario?
humoured gentleman who just now cam no
Government House, Sydney, appears fortnnato 7 l
having so far confined his attentions tntos
columns of an evening newspaper which
out in the morning and is read by several
our maiden aunt, the curate, and the heMmor?
Here is a slab of His Excellency's narrntV^. ’
“Then the fight began. It lasted five mini,
S'
hfm l » US tt B Ddalso Kicking
b * s 6^'S- . Under the circum-
K'f Vk 6 „ ry f n UC “ surprised that he
t ® t r® r Wlt h his arms and
n? Be ’„ representative of the
AlAonL i?!,~vi22; y be “oesn t represent the
i 8 * or< lship has our
r? rB ' ivenes3 . We suppose
the matter of le s always was a bit weak in
the Abrahatns-
“ Quade trial, the N.S.W.
Justice said he
couid not make out what
wiih wanted
with £2O wortli of per-
& c , in so few
flonor Httle
knows the ft vBra c ft
masher. Why, in bai“
bering him up, the Pro-
fessor he employs uses a
<3B. 6a. cake of Pears’
soap, a quart bottle of
rum-and-gjycerine, an( j
TUnnm h^i e M ° f % b ° X 01
Bloom °1 Ninon - A pint
of lavender water hardly
suffices for his “scrav ”
a bottle each 7 6f
Jockey-club and Opopo-
nax mixed are barely
for the scenting
of his handkerchief. £2O-
- of perfumery—
pooh! Why, a strong
man is exhausted after
hiS hat ’ A “ d
At a time when
y £ quarter of a
million hungry wretches
are crying out for bread,
L ond°n, it is interest-
Hfifr i£„ r fi Cord an act of
self-sacrifice on the part
of Lord Brougham—
brother of that “dow^»
statesman whose memorv
*LH ep £ green in our
b< L art f i* 7 eer tain four-
wheeled vehicles. Lord
Brougham once held the
office of Master i n
m™»n7* In 1853 Mas terS
m Chancery were deemed
°° onger necessary to
Englanu s well-being, and.
my Lord B. gracefully
° n fui i pay Of
ftttfp«- a +h e ? r u Realising,
at last, that he wasn’t bei
havmg exactly iair.y by
Tnr/ e I T°> w countrymen,
Brougham has
kindly consented to die.
rrf £ r 2 nd old epitaph—
Tr.c b ad ag oo d innines,”
story of his
lordship s life eloquently,
and to the point.
The present Earl Cairns, we read in a deli-
ciously innocent article from a London Conserva-
tive paper, was surrounded from bis childhood
up by all the zealous care that the straightest sect
t?™«to2\, Up !? n aeiieri stle(a ehjJd | e stined to con-
tmue the family traditions of piety. . Hi«
qualities are such as, if fully developed’ will
assuredly render him a notable member of toe
House of Peers.” This is lovely. Especially when
w© recollect that Earl Cairns, before he aceedS to
?' considered it necessary to uphold “the
family traditions of piety” by fooling around a
pretty actress who eventually sued hini for breach
of promise, and the then Earl had to ante-un a
Sfa ° r £lO,OOO to get his “cherished child ”
out of the mess into which the guileless
“dest ned to continue the tradittons or
piety,” had fallen. With his experience of ac-
tresses, and the world of Bohemia generaUv
Gumboil, when, as our contemporary remarks*
his qualities are fully developed, ought assuredlv
a , n . ot , abl ® member of the House of
?K er t , /u Or S 1 er i ainly he must know quite as much
a,bout the Totties and Lotties of London as most
of the gay old sparks whom he wiU meet in the
course of bis legislative career.
new book, ’‘Oceana,” Mr. Froude
“claSu' Snios w"cb’ > belon t Sf tiTto Imt
generation of distinguished lawyers, and well read
in the best modern literature. He was a brilliant
talker, and I sat with him alone after coffee in th*>
stern gallery, hearing his opinions on many inter-
esting subjects-Greek and Roman literature
modern poetry, modern philosophy, and then
naturally, modern democracy, with its causes and*
tendencies. Again, as at Melbourne, I perceived
that in respect of intellectual eminence the mother
country has no advantage over the colonies Tf
Martin had been Chief Justice of Eng-
land, he would have passed as among the most dis-
tmguished occupants of that high position ■ and T
Bh ° u * d ?£ y - tbat th s Australian colonies. to propor-
tion to their population, have more eminent men
than we have.” Exactly. But we wish the SatWe-
born Australian would get a thorough grip of this
latter fact, it would save him from grovelling
come' wre * ch „ specimens of humanity who
®2m? , tblB J ,ar * : of the earth either in the shane
of drunken lords who don’t Day their wisher
women, or of “ blue-blooded ” fashionaWerwhose
diminutive skulls are as empty as their verv
vacuous pockets. In the presence of the hie
rtw®* forceful, bull-headed Sir lames Manin
w«r« h^° U ?, h * he i8 ’ and tyrant though he would be
were he arbiter ot the destinies of the Australian
democracy, the manhood of this country can doff
her f grovel) it can prostrate
befo.e the Chief Justice of New South W ales with !


very much less self-abasement than it has mani-
fested times out of number when in contact with
titled crawlers of all sorts, whose only recom-
mendation was that they, like the rest of mankind,
had fathers.
An old shepherd named Moses Dodds died
in the Orange (N.S.W.) hosoita'. He had been on
the station for 40 years, and was notorious for his
miserly habits, not allowing- himself the neces-
saries of life and dressing in rags. He had a
paralytic stroke and died intestate. He left £l6OO.
Let us make the old man a present of a tomb-
stone:—
Stranger attend. Beneath these clods
Repose the bones of Moses Dodds.
In life his coat was full of holes,
And patched all over were his moles.
All p'easures Moses Dodds ignored,
And ration-mutton was his board.
He never ventured near a town,
And never one s had bsen lambed down.
To screw and save was ell his aim,
And for full forty years this game
He followed till there came a bill,
All men must oay whate’er their will.
Death handed In his small account,
And Moses sobbed, “ What! the amount ?
I’ve only sixteen hundred pound.
But in ten years more I’ll be bound
I'll double that. If you’ll but wait
Then you can come, or soon or late
You’ll find that I’ll be up to ddtej
And square without a groan the bill!
Just give me ten years. Say you will.”
".Cash down,” said Death: “ now come on, Mo,
My answer straight to you is 1 No.’ ”
You’ve neither chick nor child nor wife,
You’d swindle me as you have Life,
You’ve tended your last flock of sheep.
Pay now or ten years hence, what odds ?
Here’s my receipt: “ Here lies Mo. Dodds.”
Bret Harte is beginning to fall rapidly
into the sere and yellow leaf, This is what is said
bf him by oiie who bfti seen Him lately:-" People
#ho knew him -tfhen he went abroad a
slenden graceful, dark-haifed; elegant man, would
scarcely recall his former lineaments In the grey,
wrinkled, Corpulent person he has become. His
hair is now as white as snow; he is of full habit,
with a decided tendency to embonpoint, and hss
lost the graceful elegance that once rendered him
So fascinating. One of his sons, Francis B. Harte,
named for his father, is an actor of great promise,
and has taken Dion Boiicibault’s place in the rhost
famous Irish parts with success., The other, and
elder, is in business, and prefers its compdratiVelV
Sure of success to the precarious ways of
literature and the drama. Bret, having lost his
consular position, his future is a serious question,
as he has saved very little, is naturally extrava-
gant, and the blush and bloom of the reputation
that made him master of the situation a dozen
years ago, have been dulled and tarnished by
commonplace later work, produced for what it
would bring with the two maeic syllables of Bret
Harte affixed to it.” We told in this paper some
time ago how he lost his consular position. The
fact is he was too big for his consular boots. But
he can still make his salt, and, we daresay, even
pepper occasionally, by his pen. There are many
quite as deserving people worse off than Bret
Harte. Not to put too fine a point unon it, the
writer of this paragraph has frequently got up in
the morning without knowing clearly where he
wohld get his little bottle of champagne with 12
“ r °P s .of absinthe in it. But it is curious to note
the difference between the commercial instincts of
Bret Harte and Mark Twain. The former has
nothing now but his pen to depend upon. The
latter is partner in a great printing-house, and a
IJ®h l £ an : n! et both started poor-in fact, of the
than h *d Hssl chances in the beginning
than Bret Harte. He hsd more than his shrewd-
ness, however, and this made the difference.
, -£he celebrated M‘Quade ease, heard
in feyaney last week, recills the immense amuse-
ment caused some time «go by Mr. M’Elhone's
hk tke s legislative Asiem-
tQfj C 0r * IDsr th ® msoivency schedule of a cer-
tain gallant warrior, whose financial ruin was
Ored t ra in d th b fi y n buyi f 8 ’ kJov ® 3 and Perfumei yon
credit, in the present case, Mr. Abraham, chemist
-Cu p ie sS ,t434 Greorge-street, Sydney, a shop
W*> n /n° Mr. Frederick M’Quade, asked the
OT® 0 ® l nfor ce an agreement made by
Mr. M Quade to sell to him (Mr. Abraham) the
£innnn 88 M Pre E?£ eB aforesaid' for the sum of
M Quade, who but recently came of
* » ® to tb© local world as a cJovfir
fa?e fftthc Pl ? Disfc ’ succeed ed under the will of his
HoV 0 a a h n- r t 0 agt ® afc deal of money and property
M Ah;l 6ee . me t d ’ befn in th ® habit of visiting
borrtwm^ at t 8 Bhop - before he came of age and
mone7- «nr om anO ,Y S purp ° 8 ® 8 ' small sums of
iDterl st „ £10 ~ an( ? 80 on ’ on which nominal
/ ap pears to have been charged, and I
minded Chm^tL 1 ? Wh,t B , eemed to ‘hf simple-
young m«n® f * ft J K Stlce a - Jar * e amount for a
been a vm,nl° i b^ y ’ • viz ’ £2 ° If he had
11 a young lady, innocently remarked Sir
MR. FRED. M'QUADE.
whft?n e^^ ould have understood the
teen with *? gentleman could have
s 'ble to uEi»l& ort &,£ f scent 14 was impoe-
P ar ley, oo° msj? tand * Tb ® more worldly Mr.
tantthatft’^ould U nnwn azar K ed an ldea 8 ° bril-
man alike of whnL™ ly h f ve been conceived by a
‘here milht have b««n“o e fun an ? of genius-toat
?Qd Sir James a youn g lady in the case,
the matter weighing and consider-
&ncy that euoh d with considerable hesi-
to make a mrfi^t? oBBl^7 bave been the fact,
diuch-perfumed JSL s ® f short, the festive and
debt to Mr. Abrahnm Dg Pjamstgot considerably in
ft°P; M‘Quf d e who asked j him to sell the
formally, aßd j’who was then going to America,
that Abraham C s n * Be - nt l d ’ 011 condition
9iientiy, on Dressnrm k 4 d^ tai P him - but subse-
flence the action 8 aiP ? y bls T brothers, refused.
cafi« try ’” a] one took Mr 81 ? nes 5 who “Quoted
oase r em e took Mr. Abraham’s view of the
„ ay falsehood m i? ould see no evidence of
Kfssnre on th °«, ““representation, or undue
cn^ the Power Of P enL of Mr - Abraham-who ha!
contract 04 ent ering an action for breach of
| 4 discing 6 tSt ad p 6y ? r ex P resse d surprise
Wh?oh m * e Court Of N « c ar ta + in , Boll cltora of the
“■asfo*
Se“?
directed but notes from their
for°?t J s n dlords thev hi puba * in obscure suburbs
5 “bdwhere thev * o “ e , wbile “appeared
tney rooBt at night, provided they
£mir! a ? h “ on of the necessary “ toll.” In
nhomoif heSo v. men are afc once detected by the
» an lu eoil i C^ra^er of their coats, and the
swarthy nature of their linen. This, and a bit of
??H t <^. over the eyebrow—and they are de-
vard of the e cenri n ? ipa^k i l i? tln8 '‘ grollnds are the
Police Courf ThL and the Bt l* D ® of the Water
,Y ourt * They are wonderful physioano-
mists, these forensic frauds. They V can spot
wife W r a ‘?thT tk , a J u “ mon B- the Prisoners
xrriiu’ or that s got her feller un ”
with an unerring glance. Their first art-
on learning some of a female client’s story
is to move over to the hotel and drink her
too confusion to her next door nei«fh:
i“°nr, and, having Daid the fee, parts with her
adviser—probably for ever. Inherconfu-
sion she misses the hearing, and only realise? the
nation when she is arrested next day on a war-
rant, and taken, fighting and screaming back to the
police court in a cart. There are evefydly occur-
rences, bless you I and it is really hard to suggest
thieve Up till quite lately one of these wo?-
thies used to invariably turn up amongst the
befoie nio An th f cell, b Pt was charitably let loose
keen fiuth v,-o P^P e< l’ m m rder that he might
Keep faith with his clients. This one is now in a
private lunatic asylum, and opens the court nn rut
tlnftTr r |F u W* ia hisyard. the're^e^nt^.'
i° ? r ‘ Marsh being seated, with great dignity
upon an up-turned washing-tub. When last
spoken to by an outside friend, he said he managed
hnt n hn£, hl, ? Belf at home amongst these madmen,
but he must come out of It sood, ' ‘ as he beard Tom
Lowe was getting all his cases.
Formerly it was considered sufficient if
the Sydney Evening News published a state-
ment one day, and contradicted it on the next, but
a, ' O(JO ’P OO °f subscribers began to hunger
* hin ? a ffff novelty, they now publish the
statement and its contradiction in the same issue.
This, probably, accounts for the fact that one of
f, n£ c cent e i nt ble cablegrams informed us that
Sir Charles Dilke will immediately accept office,”
whilst a brilliant brevity on the next page declared
l** a . s , ‘rumoured that Dilke will resign,” All
* f° r even the News’ ingenuity now is to
publish the contradiction one day, and the fact
itself sometime during 1 the next week.
The Illustrated Sydney News for Feb-
Publishes an illustration of scenery in the
»w Cl j- ni u y of South Brisbane. As a representative
sketch of the appearance of the district a quarter
ml‘ a i c ? ntur y a *° is a creditable production.
The letter-press.accompanying the sketch is also.
A PAIR INFERENCE.
ART GALLERY TRUSTEE: “YES, THAT WAS PAINTED BY ONE OF THE OLD MASTERS.
BUT, I BEG YOUR PARDON, SIR, YOU MUST NOT TOUCH IT WITH YOUR UM-
BRELLA.”
OLD MR. COCKATOO: “WHAT’S THE MATTER—AIN’T IT DRY YET?”
contemporary with it. Amongst the matter is
found the following:—“ Several omnibuses now
hfy to various parts of the city and suburbs and
the introduction of tramways is under considera-
tion. That was true 25 years atro. Now as many
buses leave the metropolis of Queensland for the
Southern suburb as run down Pitt-street, Sydney,
and tramways have long since found their way
there. Asa record of antiquity the picture pre-
sented by our contemporary is valuable, but its
production leads people unacquainted with the
growth of the Northern colony to imagine South
Brisbane a similar place to Botany.
. pf all classes will be more than surprised
work/* 0 ' 6 8 Schnapps assist them in theirbrain
®P d , blooming health in Hop Bitters
wiKt a the C m. S) Read Q 0 17 ° an afford to be
ball-room decorators of New
anH Wales / Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
s“dnS?» ° ,al Huntor-atT^
UDdn 11 B A?^f™ e a?S 6 l Ul that rouare “at imposed
Schnapps f k f dfe sure you obtain Wolfe's
Mb. I>* CotJßor Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New
•nJri 68 ?' -Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book ”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
™2 e $ lB f Sl P ort - ArbitratorrAdviser
? lfc i es , A^ ent > Beresford Chambers’
Castlereagh-street, Sydney * UHrs ,
They got married, honeymooned in Mel.
bourne, made their home iu one of our suburbs
S Bh o l^ei t H& the la £? e9t and best-selected
earthenware, china, and slaea in
anH°?ru’ri Vblcb everybody knows as Bray’g 402
and 404 George-street, Sydney.* ya ' SU "
THE FRIENDLY BARMAID.
K lB very true * s you oft will find
That a woman’s no is not her mind:
Hut when you hear, as your pleadings end
I shall always prize you as a friend,
bhall value your friendship when it’s near.
And ask you to take St. Louis’ Beer.*
SYDNEY PUBLICANS PICNIC.
it eventuated on Thursday, 21th inst., at
the Sir J oseph Banks’ grounds at Botany Bay. Sir
Joseph was unavoidably absent, but the Hop. D.
O Connor, late Postmaster-General, was there, and
so were we. We were whirled out there by
tram at the rate of fully two miles an hour. It was
an exciting ride. Every minute or so the con-
ductor darted into the car, and with a sort of
you're-not-going-to-do-me look on his face,
bawled “Pares, pleasel * We disbursed on each
occasion, and when the glad announcement,
“ Botany,” reached our ears, found we could have
ridden as cheaply to our destination in a hansom.
We gained the gate as the luncheon gong
was sounding, and made a break at once for the
pavilion. Seven hundred licensed victuallers had
already taken their seats, and the clash of steel
and clink of glasses announced the battle had
begun. It was a desperate struggle. The gentle
goose and long-necked turkey, the less pretentious
hen, and the wallowing swine, a'l went down
before the fell invader. The tickets to the
matinee cost 205., and each individual then
and there present seemed fully resolved to
gft a pound’s worth of fun at the festival, and
30s. worth of eatables and fluids. We watched
the banqueters (the female ones), and
al^ m that through the lips just formed
wuv, kl, i 8 ns:! disappeared portions of the edibles
with alarming rapidity, while the pearly teeth of
the syrens champed and chawed on the frag-
a - which seemed
likely to militate against the caterer's profit
There were plenty vacant seats and we rushed
one. A banana and a bottle of champagne were
before us. We assimilated these in the time the
waiter was withdrawing our luncheon from thl
flery furnace. He asked would we have turkev
We returned a dignified affirmative, and from his
r Ub rari lt v, ab3enCe we tbinl£ he went there to get
it. Wmie he was gone, the chairman (Mr. James
? h °°n ey ’ MLA *> announced that His Excellency
G would like ha ve been with them;
and so, by the way, would scores of others whn
slept that night in the Domain. The Governor
sent an apology which announced his sorrow; the
others did not. Our luncheon by this time arriv-
w® beard with much pleasure the health of
«> Wia Queen proposed, after which followed
fll the Governor.” We were too
full of loyalty and turkey to cheer, but we waved
our knife and fork in the intervals of business
During: our frenzied tribute to Lord Carington we*
came nearly lifting one of Prank Smith’s eyes out!
whereupon he asked, “What in thunder are you
trying to do ?” “ Trying to get lunch/' ‘‘Pishing
A* » p » w 6?, you {. head -” “No, no, that’s
loyalty. Well, perhaps; but you’ll be leaving
someone an eye or two short yet if you get so
Vfcly wi? s ?i ; keep your elbows ? down
« nl™]? What d 0 you think °f the spread P”
‘Grand.” “Pine crowd, ain’t it?” “Best I ever
“ a Wen U viS" h nnf 6 k + e h eping muBt be a «ood game!”
"pads?
?Ks2| mnnfW >,?u' l “V" coula *«*» 4ilok on
blll ir No lucre, no liquor, seems
?t°T? e y ° ur “otto. How do you make Dad debts ?”
Don t make em, old man, lose ’em.” “ Good one
to you. Now, seriously, do you think all publicans
are sinners ?” “Do I what ?” - Oh, no matter
only I vereadit somewhere, something that wav'
anyhow.” “Well, it’s like your-. But haveTou
w d enough? Nearly. What is this ?” “ r r ur -
KfinV if ?. ~ H e, a l. of course. What do you
think it is, imitation? Oh, if you say so. How
J?-S a y do you think there are here?” “750 ”
Did your supplies run short?” “Oh no, we could
ear „; a aS
baskets of fragments?” “i’ll pick up about"™
do^ s ° of half-empty bottles of champagne claret
®bd beer. That’ll be my share of this miracle »
8 that speaking?” “ Dailey,” “ Who’s he
publican?” “No, patriot. Not much differ’
ence, though, both grow fat nn
nesses of their fellows. Come and hear him ”
Mr. Dailey gave utterance to a very honest ev
pression of opinion regarding the necessSv for a
of the juice of the grape. He bo!
ve A IP and thought a man should not swear
off, at any rate while there was any chance of
standing in a shout. The best way when a man
swore off was to do it quietly and' unostenta!
ho?* caself, so to speak, then he could still
have his lot, and no one be any the wiser He who
p ot, of course, compelled to shout. The man who
would, sftor obtaining 1 all th 6 CDiovniGnt
out of the whisky bottle or beer cask, turn round
and curse the flowing bowl was an I* 1 !? 41
deepest kind of mufky hue. and fit fnfnrffi- 11 ®
better than to punch the big'drum in the Salvation
at a , t ® mper ance tea fight!
rersonady, he loved a publican; if he had no
fefnffSSbS?«n w 1f have A een a Publican him.
brightesfc blessing ® ,Ti!f e and daughters were th
dearest- pro j'* publican could hay©, and tho
« h r°
B \%! D V o »ns rDh SH Bop^ “ a^?F h ‘• fl
gently with the ‘ dead bea?*” ° TO hl 0 t l i ld be ». Deal
rsafsas irsriS' c »»&
the m ?TOr'? r law ,' *»«>* backhand
E"S Silu p £«/2
£SSS"“HS
s&sns “id°-
sl-:i£rSil-lsss
mismmm
the er r^ W h e the aB hiV plac£ ?
others would sail boldfy bar of^hotrl
elV^^erj'T^’^aUey’s^^Hh^^p^^weirt^th©
"The Parliament 'TaV * • proposed by MnHeng
fh^> y * <rri lce ' preBiden l' ot the association, and
OConnor responded as he only Sn
Gentlemen and ladies, we oug’ht all tn
greatesht reshpect for the Parliament itvfl 1 fln«
and though I’ve losht me Sff ul officeSdd
the foine carvins and the high tower, where 7h2
man was killed a while back, shtill I feel no loss iv
dignity. As a citizen and man iv the wurrld lam
alwus on hand at a picnic it saves oi i m
in the matter of board ed a m| n £ o w fYo be
o h?n+ r by the people. Much av me presint
ability wid a knife and fork is due to me attindanoe
vof P h CniC v,V * a ?V v opinion that the colony will
Liscontinent e w lts proud Position as ehfef W iv
avltl W wan ma;l nmst hould the hilm
Hf b “ nar a
majority of the audience had shifted to
the JawD, and while the band played they subse.
wYci 1 * y gy^ te « ’ bgured, and terpsichored, other-.
S7ufii ove s th ? flo3r of the pavilion. The few re-
gulation toasts were drunk by those who oared to
and general jollity, with the assistance
of bis officers, wound up the gathering. 9
Cuticura Resolvent,
and tbus removes the cause. Cuticura thn ffrDll t
skin cure, instantly allays itchingand inflammattoli
the skin and scalp, heala ulcors ai£“ orw
auisite skin beautifll? prepareTft-tmCraicußA 6^
iMssffiSbi'mCr* sun
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wine*
selected vintages, for invallls and ooMOteseuS
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
A ybr s Sarsaparilla cleanses, enriches,
nf the blood, stimulates the aotlon
of the stomach and bowels, and thereby enables
iii G to re l i . Bt aDd overcome the attacks of
all Scrofulous Diseases. Eruptions of the Skin
Catarrh, General Debility, and ali
an Q d i ers re ®ulting from poor or corrupted blood
and a low state of the system.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry
371 a Pltt-straet, Sydney.
THE LATEST THTOMPH of MWINCJ MACHINE
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Planes.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPAHY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole Importers
BEALE AMD_COMPAMY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


Woman Items
The woman question. Is it straight •
Thomas Waldock, who shot himself dead
very youngr in experience if not * -naners
bad lived a little longer, and read the papere
regularly, he would seen that the ru e
other reasons for being m a hurry. a . afl : nn
KbS d f‘j£»\C|i“T(« g "a“v‘S
wouldn’t he a heart union. . f
An American paper explodes m a lit or
virtuous indignation because she sang it as fol-
‘°Mid play sure, sand pal aces, though heam a
Be it° averse, oh wum hull there, snow play sly
sis wraat?s
" cornerman.” (9.M.H.,
i t r Yes Well, female wardsmen, female
medical men are rap ymv b minstrelsy and
to hi entered into and occupied by
Sa^tssfjg
washboard There will be no room in the outside
world for him. -
Mr. Hampton, now famous as head of the
he was asked if lie believed his wife was in-
Stad bSw Bbe .“owed it. I melanoboly smile
Noised the countenances of every man in the
answered that she had shown her in-
by opposition to his wishes. If
a sufficient sign of madness the world
this w . - jej-aga.widowers, and all Australia
JSSd Sot mitl fESg."££» luoatio settlement
for their wives. , „
Mrs Dug dale, the most advanced among
+v,o fair members of the Victorian National
iMhorni T imlue has given a public explanation of
why she her “onnet off at the League s late
nnroarious meeting. She removed her head-gear,
m she says “it is to protect the brain from cold or
sun not" to create perspiration in a close air.
Mrs’. D. is wise in doffing her “ cadey indoors, but
-i TOOQr nf anv time ? Such solicitude for her
brin it altollthe? unnecessary. No matter, Mrs.
■Duirdale’s explanation is opportune. Ihe gas was
suddenly burned out at this particular meeting,
ui natiirod neople might have insinuated that
Tiffi taking her hat off before the darkness
?ame on, was only anticipating the inevitable
nsculatory developments of a state of gloom. The
not altogether in the dark as to
the behaviour of certain leaguers when the light
went out.
As we predicted, Dr. Laura Morgan, the
“ fair pleasing, and exceedingly refined and in-
telligent” Melbourne practitioner, is dolD ? ® l°?J~
inc trade and there never was a time since the
C»b£e Garden was first planted when there were
more men on the sick-list than there is at present.
The Queerest nart of the affair is that the bulk of
the male invalids over there seem to have sud-
denly lost all faith in the doctors of their own sex,
tn he fully persuaded that no one hut the lovely
Laura can snatch them from the grave. The most
DOimlar complaint, however, is the toothache,
and we have it on the authority of a very respect-
able old church elder that when Dr. Laura puts
. aiahostpr arm round the neck of a patient
and XSSK bSTaw for the offending tooth, the
sensation is something akin to that of goiog up to
hoaven between two rows of hot pancakes, while
all the little angels stand on top and pour honey
down your spine. One young man, in the Postal
Lenartment, has had alllnis natural and two sets of
fafse teeth hauled out already, and he j« now try-
ing to persuade the fair daughter of ASwulapius
to pull out the teeth of his father's saw. He wants
Dr P Laura to do the tugging while he holds the
saw and sings “ Star of my soul, and talks about
his great expectations.
A gentleman named Russell,who resides at
Bathurst, N.S.W., has been In the habit of amusing
himself by disciplining his wife, and appears to
carried on the practice in a wretchedly bun-
gling fashion. He came home drunk the last time
and teund his wife at the clothesline. He took
down the line, and doubling it up, heat her till he
was tired After taking breath he then dragged
her inside, tied her hands and feet to the bedstead,
and resumed operations;with his boot, staying in
several ribs. Por this exercise of authority Mr
Bussell receives one month in Bathurst gaol-one
month s leisure with free board and lodging, when
ho will be free to come out and resume the work
Sfiißrnhe left off. They did things differently in a
"SjJf m a village in Ohio. The local Bussell
was takln out of his bed at night by three pairs of
strong arms and tenderly taken to a tree in the
middle of the village and tied up. The men then
vanished, and every woman in the place turned
out The broom handle he had used was then
uassed from hand to hand and they took turn
Shout lammed him black and blue, and left him
thereall through the rainy night. In the morning
ho managed to get clear and has never been heard
SfSlf His wife has not advertised for him,
either. ————.
Muscoviana. Before the local judge of a
village in Little Bussia there appeared a widow, re-
nuted to be given to strong drink, laid three
bloodstained fingers on the table, and moved to-
wards the door. “ Ha, Eugrafia, whence did you
those fingers?” “I found them, Porflri Kus-
get those ? Where ,»in my
mouth” “Who lost them there?’ Pafnuti
Yeffgrafltch, so please you. As I was fetching
brandy for my last money, he rushed at me and
squeezed me so hard that I screamed aloud. Then
he gagged my mouth with his fingers, and as he
reached in too far, my teeth closed on them. Then,
scfpleaso you, he ran away, and I drew these three
fingers out of my mouth.” “Ha, ha, very good!
and I am to hand him those stumps, when he calls
fa thom?” “If you please, Porflri Kusmitch.
The three fingers are still lying at the courthouse,
for Pafnuti Yeffgrafltch has not been for them
yC This letter is cut from the Times The
Times is the greatest newspaper in the world. It
nrints Herniker Heaton's letters, and it represents
Pnglish “Bociety”“Uncut Books.—lp the Editor
of the Times -Bir, -I thought to enjoy a quiet
afternoon over the new volume of Lord Penny sou
which came to me as a Christmas gift. But, alas 1
n was uncut, and my clerk, who has to cut my boosts
aZ do other menial work for me , was away lor his
holiday. Now, there is nothing l abominate more
IsSspIISSS
S 8 k ’T\ h ese d are B th“ y wmdsoit W of which guillotines
are conjured.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,,
HaymarMt only=.
Will save its cost in no time,
THE PALACE MANGLE.
24in. Roller, £2 15s.
m H B A T B 1 ROYAL.
I Under the direction of
Messra. Williamson, Gahnkr and Musgbotb.
Leslie. Mr. a. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. U Ooodman.
0 '
Under the patronage of hie Excellency the
Governor,
BARON CARINGTON, K.C.M.G., P.C.
Last night but-one of
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD,
and
Miss KATE BISHOP
CALLED BACK. CALLED BACK.
FRIDAY, MARCH 5? Benefit and last appear-
ance of Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Hay market. ...
Lessee and Director ... ••• Mr. Prank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment.
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is. __
CAD B M Y OF MUSIC.
THE PALACE of the MONARCHS of MIRTH and
MINSTRELSY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E- Hiscocks.
Another splendidl Success 'accomplished.by
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union.
in their new programme of BURLESQUE and
UNADULTERATED FUN terminating with
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN (re-painted).
For Vacant Dates, apply F. E. Hiscocka.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee “ .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
"Rnsineas Manager. .. Mr. B N. Jones.
21st WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
4 CROWDED HOUSES.
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
achieved the most positive success ever recorded.
THE ONLY JOHN F. SHERIDAN and Miss
MAY LIVINGSTONE.
Mr DAMPIER and Miss KEMBLE created an
* IMMENSE SENSATION.
Manager for Mr. Dampler .. ..FRED. GUNTHER.
T
lO the MEMBERS of the AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—
I respectfully solict your Votes and Interest as
a Director of your Society. I think it due to you to
sneak with no uncertain voice with respect to the
action of the Board in establishing a Branch in
England for the taking of English risks.
I believe the step to be unwise, and that the
opinion of the members should have been obtained
prior to adopting such a momentous change in the
policy of the Society
P I deem this the more incumbent on the Direc-
tors, as the decision was NOT the unanimous vote
of the Board, hut only carried by the votes ot a
majority of the Directors. FREDK. LEE.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1861).
Manasrer Harry Lynch.
NOW ON WESTERN TOUR.
BATHURST SEASON COMMENCES
WEDNESDAY. Bth MARCH.
Afterwards— Blayney. Orarge, Molong, Dubbo,
Wellington, Mudgee, Gulgong, Forbes, Parkes
will be visited. JAMES SMITH, (Advance
H. B. BARNES, j Agents.
ACTORS. ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &c
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
includs,V“ “.TOSS*.” :? op if“ m o&e
“ Dramatic Review, Bat, &c., at moaerare
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to MaDag^’ IMPEIIIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collics-street, Melbourne.
Nervous and debilitated sufferers.
-A medical treatise, showing how you may
cured without consulting a medical man. With
mluable recipes for purifying the blood, removing
ikin diseases, urinal afft ctione, lndigest.o n, _ &c•,
fee Sent post free, for six penny stamps. Address
Medico, P. 0., Box 166, Sydney.
CONSTANT SUCCESS attends the footsteps of
the world’s youngest theatrical agent BERT
viLLISON, engaged as Press gent with I ryers
‘ircus and trained animal show in Australia.
Rrmio overland from Melbourne to Sydney, then
Snaland China & Java. Write, G.P.O , Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, Sydney.
FLEMINB’S
RELIABLE
mm.
first grade,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
""
USED by ALL tlie
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT MOW GOOD !
?se
FLEMINGS
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS;
WAGGONS,
■with Side Springs,
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAC GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
Expiration, of Lease.
Great Sale of MUSIC, STATIONERY, BOOKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing
MONDAY NEXT, Bth inst.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-markecl, and a discount of 35 per cent., or Is. in the £, will be
allowed on previous prices.
The profession and the public are invited to this extraordinary chance of replenishing
their stock of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. 6d., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangings, Embroideries, Vases, &0., all reduced 25 per cent.
Extraordinaty value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £L. Ask for Circulars for
particulars.
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &0., &c.
Account books, Day books, Ledgers, and Cash books, at wonderfully low prices.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 George-street.
the new south wales property
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED;,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPiVAKDS for shorter periols; IIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WARE HAM, Manager.
rwrr FEE sc R i FTIONS are to
PnlllL be found in the “LIGHT AND
LlFE,’’forthe speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Addrcss-
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
TO CONTRACTORS”AND OTHERS.
THE Government of Western Australia is pre-
pared to receive Tenders up to noon of
Thursday, Ist April, 1886, for the following works: -
Erection of a line of Telegraph-from Roebourne,
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
with iron poles. Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen oh applieationat the
Office of the Commissioner of Works, Sydney,
New South Wales.
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Vork J ,
Perth, Western Australis,
3rd February, 1886.
TEE NEW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Joass, Lawson Bros., & Co,
Cabinet Makers & Uphonierers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, ayvd bought for
cash in the best English and Co rammed
bv Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
f rom Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Price?.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &o ,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET ANDWINDOW DECORATION
will bo under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm ot
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONF.B, LAWBON BROS., & CO.
POMEROT-CHAMBBR?,
CASTLEREAGH-STRE IT, -
Near Hunter-street.
FCLLVS SYDNIY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Eoxing,
Gymnastics Wrestling, Fencirg, Ac. For
terras, &e., a pply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, March 2 1816.
TENDER? for PUBLIC WORKS and 8Di-
PLIES.— TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbbnmhnt Gazbttb, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tender*
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Katun of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders oan be
received at
this office.
Excavation of a New Entrance
for Yanko Creek
Supply of Suction Pipe, Hunter
hiver District Water Supply
Erection of Cottage Hospital 1 or
Insane, G1 desvili©
Supply and Delivery, at Eve-
ltirb, of 3000 tons of Gravel
Tuesday,
March 9,
at 11 o'clock,
Erection ot Custom-house, Wil-
cannia
Additions to Sergeant’s Quar-
ters, Police Barracks, Gralton i
Repairs and Additions Post and I
Telegraph-office, Braid wood |
Erection cf Waiting shed and i
Gate- house at Robic sville, 11-
lawarra Railway
Laying on Gas to Ccurthou.e, l
Wollongong J
Erection of Shed and Widening I
Approach, South Woodburn
Wharf, Richmond River I
Supply and trection cf Barbed- j
c*ire F~nctrg at • Prospect I
Reservoir . , I
Erection of Caretakers Cot-!
trgfs at theR- servoiis. Dun-
ter River district Water eurply I
Erection of Storeroom, New- i
castle Lockup , , I
Erection of Po.tand Telegraph
Office, Tinonee
Erection o Post and Telegraph-1
office, Berrima I
Erection of new Lockup, Bowral
Tuesday,
March 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
March 23
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday.
March 30,
at 11 o’clock.
JACOB GARRARD.
H. W. COOPER
(Lt»te of Crown-street), n d
who has cured.so many remarkable cases i
Lege, Skin and Constitutional D|*e f p es L ma 7 d “ ite
be consulted at 20 OXFORD.STREET. Adv
Gratis. ALL DISE tSES TRE VTBD . ,. irate
H. W. C. will guarantee to cure the mostoos.
cases of constitutional diseases.
RELIABLE TESTIMONY.
To Mr. Cooper. . tf( i
After many years’ extreme suffering 1°*“ [|U
legs, and failure of various treatment*- ig
happy to certify that under your care c d
I am perfectly cured and 1 strongly reco®»‘ £[B .
anyone afflicted with skin disease to av
selves of yourtrcatment. gEi!A6TiAN HoDCiB ,
Commercial Hotel, King-street.
To Mr. Cooper, Medicated Vapour Batbfl. ur
I beg to testify to the curative powers o
Baths for the sake of others who ro *y b ° h 8 fU t two
from cruses similar to my own. 0 ur
yeara-L -suffered with bad legs 1 adver-
bs st medical practitioners and tried msny { re
tised remedies, but all -to ho purpoee, a u \
solved to see you, but at first I must w b sio?
doubted if you could effect a core, but an vinC .d.
under your treatment a week I w» a hjcb \
and in a litt e over a moDthI was cured. under
think rather remarkable after being so J°°® wor9 e.
our best doctors, under whose cue 1 to yoil.
I shall strongly rec a mend aay onc lkno
R. F. Eastway, Eatwcy liios , Gtorge ' ]|Jf
Inspection of othe. teitimonia s is 10;p '
invited . mem
N.B-—MEDICATRD VAPOUR BATBb,
20 Oyford-street, near Hyde l ara»


What is Socialism?
wero last week obliged to break off
. inquiry while it was still incomplete. We had
. Bome outline of the antiquity of the ques-
glV a deiinition of ita raison d’etre, and a digest of
tion ’ t w o of ita essential contentions. Thus we
oD ® exp iained that the complaint of Socialists is
fh t modern society is an organised anarchy which
t “ a ts i n antagonism to natural justice, and is
w ° characterised by a systematised “robbery
f the poor.” We had digested the arguments by
° hich Socialists seek to demonstrate that private
w ership of land is pernicious, and further, that
°thn existing relations between Capital and Labour
1 e oppressive and mischievous. We will now
ar idly review the ground covered so far, and
then proceed. Personal property is defined by
socialists as that which is proper to a man-all the
wers of body and mind which by nature are his.
common property is explained to be certain
° aterial things which are essential for the main-
mnance and renewing of personal property-in
mher words, of a man's powers, bodily and mental;
a short, of his healthy life. Further, we have
1 oted the deduction that by exertion a man can
create or develope exchange able values. That is to
„ bv labour—the exercise of his powers,
mental or physical—applied to certain material
S which are “ common property, ’ he can pro*
a,,ee commodities lit for use. We nave seen also
that hdnest exchange signifies the exchange of
one commodity whicn has cost a certain amount of
?atfour to produce for any other commodity which
embodies the exertion of an equal amount of
fahonr And, finally, we nave noted now,
hv introduction of machinery, one man may
mnnotiolise to himself the occupation and
the labour rewards of many, and while accumu
iatintr substance beyond his necessities, leave
those others deprived of returns adequate to
maintain themselves, and ultimately compel them
te accept, as his hired slaves, less than the full
value of their labour, and thus artificially replace
general comfort of a modest kind with wretched-
ness and all its consequences of discontent, envy,
crime, and the expensive machinery for the con-
trol (repression being impossible) of these evils.
We are reviewing, it must be remembered,
the theories of English Socialists. -They say that
the existing social system revolves in a vicious
circle! The capitalist robs the poor of the value
nt his labour. But he is not permitted to keep
the SDOils to himself. He is comparatively a
» little flea,” and has “ bigger fleas to bite him.
The land owner squeezes the capitalists, and makes
the latter disgorge, in the form of rent, a large
Droportion of the plunder, which the land*owner
then nroceeds to squander, robber-like, in personal
gratifications and selfish indulgence. But here we
must interpose a word for the land owner and the
capitalist not in business. It would be absurd to
rretend that there is more than an economic re-
semblance between robbers and plunderers and the
propertied classes. It is notoriously true that re-
finement and delicacy follow to a great length the
drift of riches. It is notoriously true that among
the propertied and moneyed classes m Great
Britain and elsewhere are as large a proportion—
perhaps a larger proportion—of upright, honour-
able, pure-minded, and tender-soufed persons
as there axe among people of any race
and in any other condition of life. There
are among them individuals who would dis-
tribute their whole substance in charity,
did they believe it would do any good. But
it is only recently that the Socialist system
has been presented in a coherent and lnteliigiDie
form, and up to the present time an economic
gospel has been taught—and that by
olearly above suspicion of partiality, or of being
unduly well-affectioned in the propertied and
capitalist classes—the sum of which is that indis-
criminate or wholesale charity or partition would
rather intensify than relieve the sufferings of the
poor, on the whole. This is the Malthusian system,
whicn even Mill, radical thinker as he was,
bowed before. The wealthy classes, therefore,
can distinguish no obligation or duty, and
they are slow to acknowledge the cogency
if cogency there be—of the arguments pro-
pounded by the Socialistic school now rising.
There is not, we believe, at the present day, one
very wealthy declared convert to Socialism. -Ihe
very poor, on the other hand, don’t understand
ihe philosophy, although they are ripe for accept-
ance of the broad conception that they should
share in the general wealtn of the nation. Ihe
apostles of Socialism in Great Britain are mostly
of the lower middle class, men whose intellects
ate developed and whose interests are almost
neuter. The rich oan t be expected to hail the
new philosophy with eager cordiality. It is, doubt-
less, very pleasant to be rich and distinguished,
although, while the wretchedness produced by
want has no limit save a miserable death, the
pleasures afforded by wealth are not of propor-
tionate expant iveness. It is impossible, for in-
stance, to be utterly poverty-stricken, and ytt
eisy-minded and quite happy; but it is quite
possible to be immensely rich, and yet utterly
wretched. It is very difficult, even for a candid-
minded man of discip'ined intellect, to appreciate
the force and verity of arguments which jar
equally against his preconceptions, his sentimental
ideas, his early training, and his religious im-
pressions, and the adoption of which would fur-
ther strip him of honourable affluence and grati-
fying distinctions. And among ihe wealthy, as
compared with the middle classes, elegance rather
than severity of mental traioicu, prevails, they
are not, as a clas?, trained to be close reasoaerc,
nor to pride themselves upon dispassionate
unselfishness ot views. And besides, they
are taught from childhood and throughout
life, by a most reverend and respectable
order of priests, that their happy condition is due
to the decrees of Providence, and that to question
the justice of the inequalities of fortune which
Prevail is to fly in the lace of the Almighty, and
blaspheme His holy ordinances.
* * *
This brings us straight to another of the
authorities the Socialists quote for their system.
They d spute lor possession of the theological
ground; and while challenging the most reverend
and respt ctable - that is to say, the most highly paid
—piitsts, as peisonaliy concerned to justify a
systtni by which they receive infinitely more
than the value ot their labour and talents,
t»e Caristiaa Socialist appeals direct to the
Bible. While the m jor.ty of the clergy con-
Unue to inculcate a divine sanction for monopoly
and so ingratiato theuiselvts w.ti the classes
wtich have the gifts of bishoprics aui fat in-
comes, a little band, headtd in tao Eitablished
Church by the Kev. Canon Shuttleworth, th > K. v.
bluait Headlam, and Kev. C. W. rtubes, are
preaching the Socialism of Christ. And, away in
the North, Ktoteh ministers are allying tnem.elvi s
with the league lor the restoration of the land
to tha people at large, and a lre.-m solena i leaiuo
and covenant is being signed numerously by the
people of Scotland, while even in Australia the
most courageous of the apostles of Henry George s
theories is the Kev. W T. Carter of South Austra-
lia. By such as these the Chs,istian Socialist is
written. Its motto is that
" w hile continuing the Christian spirit, upon
which the teachings of Maurice and Kingsley were
based, we will not hisitate to advance tbe prin-
ts Plea of Socialism with all the significance which
has been aidtd to that term by the patient Investi-
gation of the last 35 years.”
* * *
These teachers, with nothing to hope in
the way of worfily, ecclesiastical or social advan-
tage, hut on the contrary, enter the field of dispu-
tation, like the Covenanters of old, Bible in hand,
they appeal to the law of Most a: The land shall
tot he sold for over; for ihe land is mite. are
stranger** and sojourners wi'h me.’—(Lev xxv.
And when they aro told that the. oid
dispensation has expired, they turn to the teach-
ings of Christ, and quote afresh, with awful em-
phasis; “ Gi ve us this day our daily bread — a
petition obviously not framed for capitalists;
“Lay not up for yourselves treasures in earth;
and, again, ‘‘lf thou wilt be perfect, go sell all
thou hast and give it to the poor;” and ‘lt is
easier for a camel to pass through the eye or a
needle than for a rich man to enter into the king-
dom of heaven.” And, still working this mine of
Social ethics, they allege the parable of Lazarus
and Dives, in which Christ depicted Dives going
to hell for no other apparent vice other than that
he had suffered Liz irus to be in misery at his gates
and made no effort to relieve hint. Now, they
argue, in London, Lazarus is always at the gate of
Dives—only it is at the hack gate: the policeman
would attend to him did he .trouble at the front.
At the back of Mayfair lies Horrible London. The
slums are within a stone’s throw of my Lord a Con-
servatory in Belgravia.
* * *
Now for the remedy. As we understand
the writers whose conceptions we are reviewing,
the remedy which the Socialists propose for the
anarchy which afflicts humanity is Communism;
“ Common property,” that is to say the forces and
opportunities furnished by nature for the main-
tenance of life, they would recover from tne per-
sons who now monopolise any paft ox it, and they
would make it, really common property. Thus,
land, water, light, air, would be all equally free
and accessible, and all would he worked and put
to use to the best possible advantage for the
general benefit. Secondly, the productive power
of machinery would be c(immunised. The benefit
and the saving would not he divided between the
capitalist and the landowner—it would be Dis-
tributed among all. But here a potent objection
interposes. “ What I ” cry the critics, deprive
geDius of its reward ? Take away the inducement
from inventors? The world would stand still.
Here we find the objection met, and, we think,
bravely and nobly met. Treating not merely of
the inventor, but of “the poet, the painter,
the prophet or reprover of falsehood and
baseness, the lawyer or obtainer of justice, the
physician, the statesman or governing man,
each and all of these live to benefit their fel-
lows, and by their fellows they must be main-
tained.” But “let this be clearly understood
that, for every non-producer who is so sup-
ported, the producers are called upon tor
additional exertions, or else the common store
would be diminished, and this also that these
non-producers are not to he maintained at any
price they may choose to estimate their ser-
vices at, but that all that the community can
do, or can he expected to do, is to guarantee their
lives to them in as happy and noble condition as
the hardest worker or actual producer.”
Here we find a spirited passage:—
“ A pretty state of matters this would he, it is
derisively cried- a nice incentive to discovery and
invention, that! ’ Nothing is more characteristic
of this corrupt and Mammon-loving age than this,
that all great and noble work is deemed impossible
save through hope of money re ward. With all my
heart and soul I protest, and to my latest breath 1
shall continue to protest, against this foul and de-
graded conception of human nature. Hold this
belief if you will, hut understand that to do so is
to deny all that is high and pure in man; to ignore
all that is noble and inspiring in history. Hold it if
you will, but recognise that you—whose only con-
ception is of man as a being, the origin of whose
every effort lies in its rapaoity and greed—have
left it to the despised Socialist to conceive of him
as one who may possibly be moved to high en-
davour by asimpie desire to serve his fellow-men;
left it to him to believe that Shakespeare wrote,
that Bums sang, and Carlyle taught—that Watt
S)Ught to wrest from Nature the secret of the
power of steam, and Stephenson planned how best
to utilise it—from something other in them than
the Just of gain,”
* * a
Proceeding, however, with our investiga-
tion of the Socialistic proposals, we quote afresh
from Hyndman and Morris:
‘For reconstruction and reorganisation we
Socialists continually strive, looking to the com-
pletest physical, moral, and intellectual develop-
ment of every human being as the highest form
of the social state, as the best and truest happi-
ness for every individual and for every class,
where, as none need overwork, so none shall be
able to force others to work for their profit.”
Meeting here the sneer Utopian, these writers
contend that it may have been Utopian years ago,
but that the very causes which have deepened
social disorder have facilitated the remedy. The
tendency to work everything on a big scale, and
by companies or associations, prepares, they say,
the way for State control, or, in other words, com-
munal operation of ah departments of exchange
and so forth. They would have the railways
worked by the State; so also with shipping; so
with banking. They say the economical forms are
ready, and that the transfer could be arranged
almost without a hitch—which seems to us some-
what oversanguine. And the means of affecting
this social revolution ? Well, they are clear only
in one particular. Manhood suffrage to begin
with. Thus!—
“ To avoid alike the Crushing anarchy of to-day
and the fierce anarchy of to-morrow, we strive to
held forward the workers to the Control of tne
State, as the oniy means whereby sdcfc! hideous
trouble (the reference is to the dynamite tendency
of the desperate of these days) and production and
exchange can be organised for the benefit of tne
country at large. Thus, therefore, we propose
that all should have the vote ; not that the vote
will free them from economical oppression, but
because in this way alone is a peaceable issue pos-
sible for the possessing classes. It is better (here
there is a gleam of teeth) * for .them to yield to the
vote of organised opinion than to the victory of
even organised force.”
In fact the Socialists do not disguise that they
mean bilsinesS With respect to compensation,
they eay:—
“ But this is confiscation. Fa? from it, it is resti-
tution. Those who cry for compensation for past
robbery, and shriek confiscation because the right
to rob in future is challenged, should hear m mind
that the men and women whom we would com-
pensate are these who are now stumbling halt-
clothed and half-fed from a pauper cradle to a
pauper grave, in order that capitalists &nci lßUd-
lords may live in luxury and excess. The dead
have passed beyond compensation; it will be well
if the living do not call for vengeance on their
behalf. Our first principle as Socialists is that all
should be well-fed, well-housed, well-educated.
For this object we urge forward the revolution
which our enemies hysterically shriek at, and
frantically try to dam back. But we mean wrong
to none. Bather would we claim the aid of such
of the luxurious classes as are willing, so long as
they have still enough and to spare, to forego the
frightful privilege of feeding fat upon the wretch-
edness of others.”
And they conclude thus:—
“ Therefore, we say once more this is a class war:
we know it; we are preparing for it; we rejoice at
its near approach. We mean to break down com-
petition, and to substitute universal organisation
and co-operation. There lie around us the neces-
sary methods: they need but to be applied. But
there are many difficulties and dangers, the power
of wealth is great, the unscrupulousness of pro-
perty knows no bounds. We are all aware of
this: we see and do not shrink from the inevitable
straggle. But the numbers over against us, the
hosts who may he bribed to fight for their op-
pressors, even to their own hurt; there are thou-
sands, perhaps millions, of such men ? There are.
We know that, too. Rut in a cause like ours, we
refuse to recognise difficulties; with such misery
arouad u?, we cannot stop to calculate forces, witn
such a future before us, we will never count
heads.”
At which we will for the present leave them in the
hands of our readers.
At a meeting of the creditors of F. C. Ben-
son, hotelkeeper, Benmore (N.Z.), the bankrupt
(who owed £1663) stated that from the day before
Christmas till two weeks after he bad not taken.
£3 The people in his district had all reformed.
They had either bscome G-ood Templars or joined
the Biue Ribbon Army, and that had a good deal
to do with the position he was in.
Two men working at the bottom of the
underlie in the No. 5 Day Dawn mine, Charters
Towers, 500 ft. from the surface, were stricken to
the gr und by a lightning-flash. They remained
unconscious for a few moments and when they
recovered the lightning-flash was gone. They
thought some one on the surface had been playing
larks on them with a galvanic battery, aDd sig-
nalled to be drawn up to interview the party, it
takes something more than a lightning-flash or a
gallon of red heart rum to knock a Northern miner
out.
Use your intelligence and buy only Wolfe’s
S chnapps.
Now is the winter of the Counter-skipper’s
discontent made glorious by the sunny smiles of
his fair customers, who having encouraged him to
tear down half his shop sweetly enquire if he hasn t
got something just a shade lighter.’ And this re-
minds us that nothing bores the average husband
more than being compelled to go into a milliner s
shop and stand as still as a stump while his wife is
wading round in a sea of silks and satins. He d
much rather stay out on the pathway, and wait-
even if it was half a mile to the next public house.
How different is the case when it is the pa lent
wife who is waiting while the huabandis doing the
shopping. Nothing could ever tempt her to leave
the shop door, especially when her lord and master
(as he is facetiously called by some) has a penchant
for slipping rouid theoorner to “see a man" or is
investing bis cash where he will get the best return
for his money, viz , Summerfield and Co., 335 and
337 Pitt-street.*
Sell Wolfes Schnapps, it is the Schnapps. Ail
[ imitations of it you should treat with the con-
-1 tempt they deserve.
“TROUBLE."
Lady Carington has selected the word
“Trouble” for the Sketching Institute’s
motif this evening. Above behind the
spikes—will be seen a picture of a gentleman
in trouble. By the way, the N.S.W. “ Sketch-
ing Institute” appears tobe a somewhat dense
body which can’t take a hint. When Lady
Carington, who has now plenty to do, was first
approached by the members and asked to
select a subject for them, her ladyship chose
“Repose,” of which at thetima she was sorely
in need. Yet the Sketching Institute heeded
not, but next week came along for another
subject, whereupon their patroness, finding it
necessary to more plainly convey that the In-
stitute was a nuisance, chose “Trouble.” Next
week, we understand, Lady Carington will
select “ Boredom ” as a motif.
Oriental Gold
Great
Immense Reduction I
THB
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
MagniM Mary!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orienta Gold Alberts, 10s, 158.
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30a
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s eaoh t
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
par- These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. .. Mi 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. IS 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers •» •• .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. ... £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with eaoh watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per oent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buokle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, Is each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, and 5s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 3s 61, 3s,
38 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7S, 7s 6d, Bs, 80
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no on©
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifu 1
gems at less than cost price.
Notb thb Address ;
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 tossrijis Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,


BRIEF MENTION .
“ C.M.G.”—Colonial-Made Goods.
The way of all N.S.W. Ministers’.—Sworn
in ; sworn at; biffed out.
Advt. from a Cairns (N.Q.) paper:—
“ Birth.—Monk.—February 0, at the.' Monastery,
Cairns, the wife of G. W. Monk, of a daughter.
Still born.”
The name of the oaptain of one of the
Melbourne fire brigades is Beers. He is in general
demand among the members of his brigade. But
what a splendid name for the captain of a fire
brigade!
The Story of a Hat.
1. Envy. 2. Propinquity. 3. Opportunity. 4. Larceny. 5. Apprehension. 6. Premature Security. 7. Vengeance. 8. Reaction.
Sir John Robertson is understood to have
said that the political news in the daily papers is
“all lies.” This is likely enough, for it is generally
communicated by prominent politicians.
During the year 1881, 10,768 dozen packs of
cards were imported into Victoria. We wonder how
many prayer-books were imported during the
same time. Not as many, by several dozens, we
will wager.
That unfortunate Rook, of the Miller’s
Point (Bydney) fight, has been remanded again,
we sae. A little while ago he was but the Rock
of yesterday. He, however, bids fair now to be-
come the Rock of Ages.
In the course of debate in the N.S.W.
Assembly, Mr. Abigail compared Mr. Abbott to
“Batan reproviDg sin,” This ®ay be a tre-
mendous compliment to Mr. Abbott, but how
will Satan feel about it ?
The Rev. S. M‘Farlane, New Guinea mis-
sionary, states that some of the Papuan languages
are in many respfets superior to English. We
Dresume he refers to the English of the religious
journals and the Tract Society. If so, we believe
A correspondent, writing to a Melbourne
paper, says that “ it takes 40 years to get an idea
into the head of the medical profession.” Doubt-
less, hut then be should remember the compensa-
tory fact that it takes another 40 years to get it
out again.
"Now that Mr. H. F. Cohen, ex-Minister
| for Justice, is permitted to call himself
“Honourable ” within the precincts of the colony,
he ought to alter the title of that company from
“Standard Paint” to “Royal Standard Paint,”
and forward the old gal a pot o’ yaller.
We see they’ve just seized another 10,000
contraband cigars from the as. Sengpung. Thun-
der! It seems that they are doing away with all
our old Sydney institutions. If things go on in
this astounding way, we shall soon be detecting
ourselves going into a cigar shop and asking for a
threepenny smoke.
Stop the Press ! Even at this late hour we
consider it is our duty to announce that a new
journalistic planet has appeared in the literary
firmament. It is called “the Mclntyre Herald
and Goondiwindi ADVERTISER.’ We have only
to wish the new venture, &c„ and to add that the
name of the editor is Murphy.
The Wesleyan Spectator— a Victorian
religious paper—stated in one of ito articles the
other day that it kept a “ special detective.” We
suppose the principal duties of this gentleman are
to find out what particular lock-up the theologi-
cal writers are in at any given time, and bail them
out when they are wanted. It is a useful, but not
a glorious occupation.
The Hobart Mercury— a journal printed
In laudanum on sheets of lead—has fired off a real
live joke at last. Amongst the ads. we read,
“ Situation wanted as governess by a lady just
arrived from England. Can do all kinds of sewfflg
and embroidery except music.” This is nearly as
good as the Bathurst party’s request for “ a man
to look after an entire horse who can milk and
make himself generally useful on a farm.”
“ We learn that our worthy postmaster,
Mr. Kirwan, is slowly on the mend, and it gives us
pleasure to record the fact.” Thus the Gooma
Express. We are able to record, in this instance,
however, that it was not getting “on the tear”
that had anything to do whatever in the respected
patient’s now beiug “on the mend.” Hand us up
the little book.
The new Victoria street (Sydney) Convent
School was opened with a five-shilling tea-fight,
concert, and—listen, your Eminence— dance, the
other evening. What with dancing (and other
things) at convents, raffling pigs and teliing for-
tunes on the consecrated ground of a cathedral
site, and the extension of ecclesiastical—wo might
almost sav pontifical—patronage to ladies in tights
upon the trapeze, the R.C. clerical authorities have
of late succeeded in shocking us greatly.
Delo Tetano, a Ryde ice-cream vendor
when fined the other day for blowing his trumn *
on Sunday, cornered the Bench thus: Yo,,*] J
Balvation Army go about de street and make rn
and blow trumpet and no line them: how’s mi^T.
It is law, Mr. Tetanus-N.R.W. law. But r)ei
your goods are unnecessary. Salvation is a nW 1
where you are already provided with ice cream 0
The chairman of a Melbourne religion,,
debating society remarked the other night 8 thi*
‘the vital power of Christianity must alwavs’hn,
the pe w.” Why, certainly. And it is taken out
the new on the plate. We have been there in
pious youth, when the world was to us a vai
of drv bones and tears, and we have given
vital power a lift with what we had left over
Saturday n'ght, many a time and oft. 111
In the Argus of 18th February: —“Hug.—
On the —iost., the wife of J. Hug, of a.son.
Hence “our muse labours, and thus is she de-
livored”: -
“ Oh. Mrs. H., was blithe and gay,
Quite loving, aweet and snug,
So sne, when H. c*m© home one day,
Gave him a little Hug.”
He thought himself one of the smartest
fellows in Narandera (N.S.w,). He saw an old
man standing at the pubiichouse door with a pipe,
apparently aead-out, in his mouth. He said tie
would have a lark, and drawing near, managed to
get the nozzle of his powder-flask into the head
of the oi i man's pipe. There might have been a
lark, if tbioga fend only waited a while. But they
didn’t. There was Are in the heel of the pipe, the
flask exploded, and the smartest fellow in NaM a "


nf suddenly away with a fractured wrist.
dera "that we put things together, that really was
pie lark. Silas Wegg, we feci like
A^rai ?nv \nto poetry.” In the Melbourne
.<dropping I P^._l"Oadd.—On the 3rd inst.. at
Fitzroy, the wife of W. Smithers
Gadd Gadd’s a jolly lad,
And able, too, no doubt;
Hn be not shocked to find he had
A little Gad-a-bout.
Out in the Cold!
r We have just been shown a Victorian
subpoena form, “ and are amused at the tense
of tbe citation. A witness is to declare on a
certain date what he shall know, not what he does
(at time of service) know. When he has been
carefully coached by one side or the other he shall
know what is evidence though not truth. How
can an ignoratt layman know what to swear to
before he has interviewed lawyers and police-
men ?
The Sydney Globe considers “ that a
-statlonmaster at a suburban station, who allows
the first-class passengers to smoke on the platform
and not the second-class, is deserving of a proper
reward for his snobbery.” We can see why the
iron enters here at once. The matter, however, is
easily remedied; for it must be admitted, without
going deeper into the matter, that no P^T fc y can
reasonably expect to exact the adulation due to a
first-class passenger who wears second-class boots
and a third-class hat.
The receipt of this will, no doubt, be
denied“l am directed by his Excellency Lord
Carington to inform your Worship that he will be
unable for the present to personally inspect the
municipal carillon; but, in the event of such an
offer being acceptable, his Excellency will will-
ingly cause himself to be represented by an
orderly, or, should the day prove of extra tropical
te >perature, by a pair of those officers. Trusting
that this suggestion will meet with your Worship’s
approval, and that at least one of the servants wilt
be returned sain et sauf to Government House, I
have, ’ &o,
Victorian journals are bragging because
out of 80 young colon! ils who offered themselves
for service in the police force 20 were over 6-lt.
high. We see nothing to boast about. Indeed, it
is all the other way—a matter for regret rather
than rejoicing. For the small community in which
! sturdy young giants prefer keeping antique apple-
women in check, or carrying frowsy dead-beats
'through the streets to ploughing the land or fell-
ling trees, will never come to much. We seldom
see a stalwart youth in blue and livery with lead
[buttons without pining to put a spade in his hand
land say, “ Here, you. Go and be respectable.”
i “ Let us pray,” says the Christian Colo-
(nist newspaper of Adelaide:—“ln our opinion
[the crisis is sufficiently grave to warrant the
Government in setting apart some week-day as
one of humiliation and prayer, enjoining that on
that day men should cease from their ordinary
avocations, that they should abstain from all mirth
and festivities, and, befaking themselves to their
various places of worship, should unite in con-
fession of sin. and in prayer, for a return of pro-
sperity.” And yet Adelaide, which is now asked
to pray more, is known as “the city of churches,
the Australasian holy of holies, the paradise or
chadbindisoa, the home of the greasy deacon and
the smug elder with the shiny face. It is, of course,
also known as the lair of the sainted fraud—of the
insurance swindle, of the building society swirale,
of the hank swindle. The Commercial Bank of
S.A., which has just gone bUDg, leaving behind it
a shameful record worthy only of the “ Glasgow ”
management, was emphatically the bank of the
local saints. Most of tee directors were very pious
indeed, and one official, who Is credited with
having done some of the most audacious
tMDgs ever heard of in the bistory of fluance, was
as holy as they make’em. Yes, brethren, let us
prey.
They were evidently a pair of Spanish
hidalgos, and, as they took their seats in the tram,
the first grandee remarked: “ Muaha, thin, but it’s
a foine man is that Kyardinal Mo-rcrn himsilf;
more luck to ’im an’ his new red hat.” “ Thriie
for you, Dinis,” replied the second hidalgo, “but
you shud see our Armydale Bishop, Dochtur Tur-
ridgyanni; he d m&k© two av owJd John
Lucas ” “ Turridgyanni, ’ said t;e first spe ker,
in a soliloqutsinp sort of way, that s nivir an
Oil i3h name, is it ? ” “ Oirish Ino I” returned the
other, “shure he's fwhat thpy calls a Ithalhon—
comes frum th' same eounthry as th’ Pope ay
Rome himsilf. We’ll git out hpre fijr a dbrmk
now, Dinis,”


CORRESPONDENCE
L Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
Vlume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.']
“An Old Chartist”: The Hon. Graham
Berry was not always an out-and-out Protectionist
and Radical. In the early days when he kept a
grocer’s shop In Prahran (Vic.), he, as the mouth-
piece of the Free-traders, attended meetings called
by those two staunch Democrats, Wilson Gray
and J. J. Walsh, and there opposed the objects of
the meetings. Afterwards wheu he saw that
Protection ‘and Radicalism ware comiag he es-
poused the progressive cause. The recent Tas-
manian Treaty, which he launched in Parliament
and then had to withdraw, showed that he was not
an uncompromising Protectionist. We admit that
Graham Berry was on the right track some eight
or ten years ago, but then he went off again. The
whole of Victoria was thoroughly rouged to the
baneful effects of Conservatism, and the electors
would have stuck to Berry through thick and thin
if he had stood firm and true and led them on to a
more honoured victory. But place and pay have
always been to Berry like the proverbial bunch of
carrots to tbe donkey—he never failed to seize it.
We have no faith in any Liberal politician who
would compromise a principle, and that’s wbat Mr.
Berry did “ W.C.” (Bockbampton): Next week.
....“J.R.W.” (Petersham): We don’t think that the
fact of a member being found guilty by a church
assembly of improper conduct with a lady of the
parish necessarily implies bis expulsion from tbe
House. Come in and tell us about 1t.... “ F.C.S.”:
Glad to receive your letter. Will consider as to
verses “Luo”: Will work up “Free-
thought”: Thanks. Will use excerpts “T. 0.”
(Walcba): Will read and consider “Eye Wit-
ness": How could you expect that employer to
lose time sending the man a few miles to the hos-
ital? A man is neither wool nor mutton, and if
he dies another can easily be got to fill his place.
The squatter would lose nothing by the man’s
death “Manapouri”: Nitric acid should never
be taken except as deck cargo. It would eat its
way right through an iron ship’s bottom in a few
minutes “5.W.8.”: Thanks. Race sketch
very old “G.A.” (“Nith”): Many thanks
“Ina”: Next time you “see a ghost ” in the day-
time press one finger firmly down on the top of
one eyelid, and depress the eyeball without shut-
ting the eye. In that way the object which affrights
you will, if it is a material object, be doubled.
You will see two instead of one; on the other
hand, it you are the victim of spectral and
auditory illusions—if, in a word, ghosts really
trouble you, you will see only one, as before....
“ Widows’ Mite Yes When a fund was started
for the relief of those made destitute by the loss of
530 men in the Captain in 1870, Her Majesty re-
fused to subscribe, on the ground that there was
always an allowance from the Admiralty for such
cases. The officers, including those on half-pay,
and sailors subscribed and emtributed seven days’
pay, and the fund thus established fu-nishes the
annuities still paid to the widows and orphans o*
the Captain's crew. Even the mite was not given
on the occasion of that national disaster....
“Graham Johnson”: We print the first verse of
your “ poem,” and if the sight of it in print does
not strike you with palsy, then someone ought to
kill you before you get too dangerous. Here: -
I knew a girl in Jamberoo,
Hurroo 1
She wore a number nineteen shoe,
And she could oross a street in two
Strides, easy as a kargaroo.
Ooe eye was black, tho other blue,
And one was straight, and one askew,
And stio was fond of chewing glue ;
’Twas better than a circus, you
Can bet your life to seeffier chew,
Tbe girl I knew io Jamberoo.
Graham, you had tetter be stealirg dogs than
writing this sort of drivel... “J.F.”: Shortly
“ Banjo ”: Beautiful, but must keep for a week or
tw0...." Baroni” (Naw Guinea): Interesting, but
would require too much spaoc....“ Bushman ”:
Your suggestion would not work. Letter-sorters
can always tell the Jernil by the smell. You see
the difference between their paper and ours is not
in the colour of the cover alone.. .“Oyster
J ohnnie ”: Will alter tale of a tramp. Put a head
on it, in fact 8.P.”: We know of no other
mother than the female artie'e, unless, perhaps,
mother-of-pearl. We do not know the proper
way to kiss a girl in a temper. Fact is, we are
~'eak on the girl question altogether, and the
theology man is not in just now. Our sporting
man fancies, however, that if you fought for the
half-arm lock, and led off with your left, you
would stand a chance of planting your ruby lips
in the vicinity of her expansive smiler “ Rus-
tic;” (Mooroopna, Vic.): The lines you refer to are
found in Congreve's “ Mourning Bride,” Aot III f
sc. 8, and runs thus:-
“ Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned,
Nor hell a fury like a woman scorned.”
...“P.C.”: You say they told you that Chartreuse
was not on the bill of fare, and when asked for a
telegraph form, brought a file of the Daily
Telegraph. That’s not so bad as a thing we saw
the other day. A man asked If there was a decent
newspaper in the house, and the fool of a waiter
actually brought him the Evening News....** Bul-
-lan parrot”: If we were to depict the gentleman
i a the garments you describe, the picture would
realty be too rude You s*e, the only jofee, If
there is one at al), is upon the in-
sufficiency of the hero’s attire “Eschol”
(Oiamantlna): No; we pay no money to our staff
They prefer to take out their salaries in rum. We
judge bv your writ! lg that, you might, perhaps,
earn a gill a week. It you re willing to sparkle lor
US at this rate, come and bring your billy and
blankets with you. Our manuscript-reader
drowned himself the other day, principally on
account of having to read stuff like yours-and
his tank is vacant “Snowdrop”: Magnificent
sentiment, but “multy” construction. You see
lines of this kind don’t rank with many of Tenny"
son’s:—
“ Hearts beating high by tbelr very words,
That were cheerless and well-nigh disaster.”
...“ J J.C.C.”: We will keep your facts before the
publio —“Anxious Mother”: Can hardly advise
you. If the boy is ill-treated or not taught his trade
you might apply to the Benoh for cancellation of
indentures, or might sue for wages in arrears—
“W.H.”: Your proposal is shadowy. The only
evening work you could do for us here is rat-
catching. Come round some evening with a big
stick and a gunny-bag. Glad to hear that while
working in your little Government department you
don’t waste enough cerebral tissue to “ prevent
y our feeling fresh in tbe evening.”... “ E veleen ”:
Can we give you “ a reseet for maken a Yorkshire
pudden?” Certainly we can, dear. Take two
pounds of putty, half a pound of brickdust, a
pound of sawdust, some adult potatoes with horns
in their eyes, three ounces of glue, and a power-
ful onion cut fine. Mix these well together, throw
*n a junk of beef well blue-moulded—though the
beef is not necessary—tie all up in a cloth and boil
on a strong fire while there is a stick of wood in
tbe yard. If after this you don’t have a first-class
“ Yorkshire pudden ” then the landlady of the
hash-house doesn’t know her business
“HP M.”: Shall he delighted. Paper not to band
“William Msrkmore”: Yes, because John
Stuart Mill for a year and a half before his death
advocated—very powerfully, and in a variety of
forms—a system of leasing. He even went beyond
that, for he advocated the expenditure of capital
in recovering for the State in England the great
hulk of the alienated lands— “ Constant Reader ”:
You say that you went to a country brewery and
drank several “ deep-sinkers.” What is the use
of sending us a par. about that? You should*
have sent it to the brewery —“LA.”: Nicely
“ Ida ”: We cin’t tell you who is the “ most stylish
modiste in Sydney.” but we can tell vou where
you can get the best whisky. Will that do as well ?
. ..“J.D.R”: Send along more snake nerjuries,
please “C. F. Martin”: London Punch, a paper
whose chief business is to make tragedies out of
jokes, isn’t our model, thank heaven ...“Abe”
(Bargo Brush): Thanks. We and the News are
sueh old acquaintances that we are no longer
polite to each other “A. Raby” (or rabies):
We have burnt your poetry and strongly recom-
mend to you a course of strict seclusion and the
Some people wonder why
Larry Foley lately kept two
bears on his premises.
The episode at Moore Park
last week throws some light on
the subject.
shower-bath “J.J”: Thanks. Next week ...
“ Jaybird Charley”: Sorry we missed you when
you called at the office. So is tbe bulldog
“ J.Y.’ : The eminent politician you refer to is
generally known as the Blue nosed Mandril. Look
up aoy good illustrated Natural History, and then
turn to the pictures of him which you have seen
in this pao«r, and the faultless accuracy of
the phrase will strike you like a psviog-stone...
“ sjah”: Can’t print it We sre not rmblishing
this paper for the benefit of goats " Styx An
attick on such a subject should be made with
dynamite; its’s no use m trying to batter down a
braze-i image with a gieen quince-rod. Ms.
awaiting our know.edge nf your address
“Longbow” (< obar, N.S.W.): (annot see th®
ghost of a joke in it. If tbe policeman-witness
did go for a ride as soon as the case was ea led on,
his action was true to the traditions of hisclas*
“ J.P.T.C ": thanks; we are glad to Know tb*t
David Gaunson swears by The Bulletin,
pnd regards it with veneiatioD equal to that <>f
Congregational pardon for the Twopenny Fair-
fax “ Gambusino ” (Tas.) : Have lound
missing verses, and will publish “A Con-
staLt Reader ’ (Sunnv Corner): Next week, sure....
“ Subscriber ” (Bathurst): The photo of the Royal
fami y received with thanks. Bball make use of
it “Ronald Doull”: Dealt with two weeks ago
“Ina”; ‘’Bushman’s Romance” unprintable.
Set ire not senMment, is evidently your forte
“Fair Play”: You'd better catch Poet Slaien and
bind the volume in his skin, if you can get it.
’ twill then be ‘ boun 1 In calf”.. .“Caroline M,”:
Notin The Bulletin. The remark, as far as we
remember, was made by Max O’Rell, who attri-
buted m-ch of tha typical Englishman’s success
to the fact - hat (unlike the Frenchman) he never
allowed his womankind to actively interfere
either in his politics or in his business. Theremark
is worth considering in the light of history, espe-
cially in view of the proposal to extend the fran-
chise to women—"A.M”:You ask what we
think of the merits of the lines—
“ Still may we hope for peace in future years,
This grief, though ne'er lorgotteD, rest in slum-
ber :
Till having by our very grief been chastened,
We wait with confidence the expected end.”
We don’t think anything “Gumsucker”: You
say that whenever you accosted a Scotchman in
the strtet and asked him for a matca he never
gave you mo. e than one, whilst when you have
made the same rtquestof Irishmen and English-
man, they have handed yi u several matches We
don t believe the brawny Soot is th° mist open-
hearted, liberal man in the world, but we have no
sympathy with year compiaiat, because when you
only ask a Scitehnun—who is always an exact
man—for “a match ” he is quite right in only
handing you one. In future ask bandy for two
or three matches, and he mightgive them to you.
Larry Foley, some people may not know*
had a little while ago at his Gymnasium, in Syd-
ney, two good-natured brown bears, whioh from
time to time afforded “ the boys ” much amuse-
ment These bears were wonderful athletes in
their way; they knew every hold and trick in
wrestling, and (when safely muzzled so that they
couldn’t bring their teeth to bear on you In the
course of a friendly bout) you couldn’t have
wished for better-humored or more skilful oppo-
nents in the art of which Miller is a master. After
they had thoroughly learned the science of
wrestling—in whioh they ultimately became so
proficient that no one ever thought of seriously
tackling antagonists who were as quick as Victor,
and weighed at least 10st. more than the ordinary
man—it was for a while designed that they should
be perfectly educated in the “noble art,” and
sent across the water to knock out Sullivan, but
the idea was abandoned and the bears packed off
to Paddy’s Market. They had, in fact, almost been
forgotten when Frawncls Habigail, M.L.A., the
other night denounced bear-fighting as an over-
rated and immoral amusement Looked at from a
theological standpoint, Mr. Habigaii’s jeremiad
was all very well; but a recent (alleged)
event proves that Foley, after all, was but
teaching what is necessary knowledge to
all persons visiting Zoological Gardens or
other places where bears are kept. For the
credulous Sydney dailies last week described a
fight of a novel character, which came off at the
Sydney Zoo, between Mr. Sehiuter, a gentleman
visiting the grounds, and one of the brown bears
which reside there permanently. The bear had
endeavoured to snatch a little girl through the
bars of his cage, and had already drawn her
towards him with a view of making a closer in-
spection, when Mr. Sehiuter appeared on the scene.
Jumping from 15 feet above into the outer circle
of the bear’s boxi \g ring, he placed himself in
position, and led off with “a terrific right bander ”
on the bear’s conk. Bruin, though he has been
long enough in the ring to have lerrnt something
of the game, did not fight a fair battle, for he im-
mediately seized his antagonist’s finger in his
mouth, and commeneid to “chaw.” Mr. Sohluter
got on with his left, and countered smartly, when,
oa his right hand beiig released, he popped in
another “ hot ’un," and the bear retired to his
corner. The child was then escorted to its owners,
and the bear-fighte l left the grounds, after en
quiring his wav to the hjspital. His little finger
was rather badly torn. The account, as furnished
by the papers, of tha manner of the child’s
entry into the pit, reads somewhat vaguely:
“Those who are acquainted with the place will
remember that the pit is situated ou the edge of
an embankment, from the top of which visitors
look down some 15ft. at the bears below; while at
the bottom, whicn is level with the floor of the
pit, visitors are only separated from the animals,
two in number, by two iron gates—an outer and
an inner one. The former had, through some
gross carelessness on the part of the attendants,
beBu left open, and the child, who had strayed away
from her parents, toddled into the intermediate
calling out ‘Doggi l , doggie,’ under the evi-
dent impression that the brown monstars were the
familiar domestic animals so dear to ail children.”
It is surprising that such “ gross carelessness ”
should have been exhibited by the attendants in
the matter of closing the gates, and a vacancy
should at once be c.tatedia that portion of tbe
staff, but it is more than surprising, it is almost
incredible, that those who went near enough to
hear her call “Doggie, doggie,” were not near
enough to r.-move her from her danger ms
proximity to suideu de-»t.h, without waiting assist-
ance f-om onoso Dr above. Mr. Sehiuter is pro-
bably the only man in the world who has knocked
a oro -•'ii bear ( ut in two rounds, and the perform-
ancs, for a e oss-handed lighter, who. according to
toe Sydney D. i\, “loans off with a terrific right,”
is a best o.i record.
F. B. Sutt- r’s Bathurst young ladies, wno
had such a lot to giy about the railway refresh-
ment-room there, ‘‘do not SBe their way clear to
give ud the source they gained it from.” Curiously
enough, F. B. was a bit that way himself a little
while ago. What he said, however, wasn’t much.
He only accused a bronzed and bearded officer,
when under fire of the Arabs, of crawling into a
pickle-jar. And to this day the bronzed and
bearded one, having been refused the names of his
accusers, lies under the “ terrible stigma,” when
at any time he could have satisfactorily explained
to a commis ion that if he crawled into a pickle-
jar when under fire it was only to fetch out the
other officers.
Mr. Abbott, of the Beautiful Accent,
acted as forster-brother for tbe Jennings Minis-
try on Tuesday last, and moved th it the seats be
declared vacant, and that an adjournment be
granted to the 21ch March. Tbe prospects of tbe
new-comers are not bright. Sir John Robertson
and his colleaguts have carried out their promises
of “ loyal support” by appropriating the front
Opposition bench).s, and Sir Henry Parkes sits on
the same side near the gangway. Mr. shepherd
sounded the first note of battle by announcing, as
soon as the adjournment was move l , that he
would challenge the position of Mr. James
Fletcher, Minister for Mines, on the ground th>?t
he was directly interested in mining in N.ai.W
During the sitting 10 members were on the Go-
vernment and 19 on the Opposi ion benches, the
bulk of the membcis taking position on th® cross-
benches. N.d W., it is plain is doomed to have as
many Governments annually as a South Ameri-
can Republic.
On the evening of Friday, the 19th inst.,
the Goulburn volunteers had a march out, headed
by the premier band. It was stated that they
were to tramp out to the residence of Mr. F. Tait
M.L A, but that gentleman not having been able
to secure all the bread and beef in town in time to
entertain his would-be visitors, sent word that he
was not ready for them. Here was a pretty go.
About 100 men had assembled expecting that
which delighteth the average Briton-a cheep
feed. The officers decided that, failing a cheap
blow-out, the next best thing was a cheap drink;
so the order was given to form fours and take
Bartlett’s brewery by storm. Never did thirty
men march so willingly nor band play so loudly.
On arrival, the genial brewer let the goat-killers
loose amonsst the beer-barrels, and for a time one
would have thought all the thirsty souls had been
let out of Hades. Some of the heroes could ba
seen lying down with their mouths under the'taps
and in about half an hour all the stringy had been
consumed. The captain then made a deligbttul
little speech, commencing: “ Gentlemen,—Ahem I
—men, I mean—l don’t think we can thank Mr. B.
sufficiently for the hearty manner In which he has
entertained u 8 to-night; but, at all
men— ahem! I mean men—we will give him three
cheers.” This ended the storming of
brewery
la Mr. Froude’s new book, “Oceana,” he
says that in all his Australian travels he saw
nothing but prosperity; he did not, in fact, see
one discontented face. It always makes us glad
to find ourselves in accord with great men, and,
with Mr. Wigzcll’s permission, will stake our wig
(time-payment) and write out from long expert-
ence what we have to say in support of our
learned brother’s contention. We have seen men
who have tramped from one end of this Oontiaent
totae other searching for—what’s it called—it s
so long ago-anyhow, for that yellow metal, and
we have seen them bald, bent, and grey, stepping
cheerfully into thiold men’s asylum, at Parra-
matta, there to live in pampered ease, and to doze
off at intervals on tne combined influence of
Quong Tart’s bung and subtle melody; and wa
have seen them die without a friend. But were
they discontented ? Not a bit. They were gay at
the prospect of death. We have seen business men
who alio ved themselves no sleep nor rest, build
up a fortune, and find themselves, through the
kindness of another cheerful Australian, reduced
to poverty in a day Discontented ? On th« con-
trary, hilarious We have seen a stout gentleman
leap out of his bed and skip down to the back
yard, armed with a heavy boot, to slaughter the
melodious eat. We have seen the boot miss
the mark, and the old gentleman limp
up-stairs with half a cord of fine splinters In his
feet, sit down on the side of his bed and delve
them out for one hour with a penknife, and while
the cat outside resumes his nocturnal note, hum
all the while “ Scenes that are Brightest,” and
“Life's a Bumper.” No discontent with him,
Men wandering on the Old Man Plains know
exactly where to drop in on a free restaurant,
where juicy steaks and bottled beer are ready at
all hours. Nobody pays rent, noeody ever gets
sick, everybody is eager to lend everybody else
money, and the only shadow of discontent tljat
flits over our countenance is that nobody will
apply to anybody for a loan. The weather is never
cold and never m uggy, the daily papers are a per-
fect storm of wit and vivacity, our clergy are
learned, eloquent, and holy, and our politicians
wise and self-sacrificing. Our lawyers scorn to
take fees, our farmers and squatters have always
abundance of water, and there is never a sheep
lost from drought, or a squatter squeezed by a
bank. Bills are always honoured, and overdrafts
may be had for the asking. What more would
you have? Why should there be a discontentd
face ?
Certain Sydney clerics who rarely or
never visit the theatres but are possessed of a
marvellous stock of theatrical lore, for the own-
ership of which they eccount on the “I am cre-
dibly informed, beloved brethren ” principle, have
of late taken in hand the task of pulling the move
out of their dramatic brother’s eye. Among
them is the Rev. J. Barnier. wbo last week warned
his hearers against the unholy fascinations of a
society, the leading idols of which were such im-
proper persons as Sara Bernhardt. “ Let anyone
with David's spirit stand in the vestibule of a
theatre for five or ten minutes,” remarked Mr.
Barnier, “ and listen to all t.ne talk going on there
and see what is proceeding, and he would surely
pass from it with the prayer, 4 O Lord, t 'rn away
mine eyes from beholding vanity’” We do so
long for the sweet by-and-bye when the stage
shall have been purifled, and the Bw. Mr.
Barnier, in his capacity as pantaloon, is
invited by the wicked clown to a-mex
the conventional string of sausage.). Of a
slightly different character was the address of
the Rev. G. North Ash, who last week fraDkly
owned that though the modern stage was im-
moral, tne sh .ws provided ,by modern parsons
were lamentably lacking in humour. la the
sweet by-and-oye, perhaps, we shall have the rev.
gentleman leading on to the purified stage a
fcrupulously-attired young lady, about whose
smctified p> rson there lingers not a suspicion of
the b diet, thus
AFTER THIS THE DELUGE.
Patroniza a house where Wolfe s Schnapps ia
kept—because you may then rely upou all things
else.
The cures consummated by Wolfe's Schnapps
tail their own story aud plead taeir own pause.
Ask for and obtain Wolfe's Schnapps; the pro-
prietor is not responsible lor the effect produced
by counterfeits.


nwF” asks us very mcely indeed what
s We will tell him-more particularly
our have asked us the same question before,
one answer will do for all. When
and =t«rtcd The Bulletin we’vo laid ourselves out
8t + 8r r for a'l classes from the polished prelate to
to oater xor pickpocket. The solemn judge,
at breakfast, previous to pronouncing
sentence on a criminal, would smile all
■capital sen courBe you know all respectable
sleS their wigs and wear them all the
3 “.£?-as he read our jokes about justices; and
the merry murderer, reading in his condemned
A Rescus.
SIR HENRY: "ITS NO USE EXPECTING THESE MINISTERS TO BELP YOU OUT. THEY'RE OFF TO THE COUNTRY, I'LL EXTRICATE YOU. I KNOW WHAT IT IS MYSELF."
cell our jovial account of a midnight tragedy in
Woolloomooloo, would laugh so much that the
warder would have to come In and pat him on the
back with an iron bar to p event him from
asphyxiating himself before his time. \ve over-
looked no section of the community. We did pot
forget the solitary sheph rd buried alive in 'be
heart of the howling bush. Dog-fights and whisky-
parties were the things that he wanted to read
about* Wo eiigsff6d a connoisseur in each of these
departments to supply him with spiraling litera-
ture of this description. The religious element
we determined to make a special feature of the
paper, and with this view engaged a gentleman of
piety and erudition to edit this department. He
knew the Lord’s Prayer right through, with the
Doxology thrown in. We are sure Of this, because
we had it taken down ia shorthand from his
own mouth, and showed it to a minister
of our acquaintance wijo said it was all right. We
regret to say that our religious department was
not so generally appreciated as we thought it
deserved to be, This might have been because
our religious editor—though otherwise a pious
and God-fearing man—was giyerj to mixing his
drinks somewhat too much. qmd, QQDgeqpdhtly,
mixing bi§ creeps. VjTg dog f mueb a mut
these things ourselves, but we had at the time a
lingering suspicion which has since developed
into certainty that ihe was not entirely orthodox
in his views. He would-so some of our readers
have informed us since—run amuck at the Thirty-
nine Articles in one paragraph, stone the scarlet
woman in the next, exalt the Church of Itome in
the third, and the Westminster confession
and nraise the Presbyterians with r-ekless aban-
don down tho rest of the column We might still
have been ia ignorance of all this, and still em-
ploy! eg him if he bad not taken himself off one
day with, as he informed us, a seven-horned beast
out of the Revelations who had called for him.
We have never seen him since, and have
never since attempted to popularise theology.
We looked to poetry, however, to pull us
through. It has stood by us pretty well
so far, but we have grown gray in the
struggle. After four or five years of unceasing
effort to imbue our poetical staff with ideas of
moral responsibility and the ethical beauty of oc-
casional sobriety, we have had to retire heart-
broken from the task. We have, therefore, set
apart the lowpst cellar in the basement for their
use wften they ponge to this office. It is only at
times, and faintly, that muiiled sounds arise from
the depths to disturb the even tenor of our busi-
ness above. Our artist, who has a genius for me-
chanics rare in its way. has invented a lift-the
Laureate Lift is the name be has g^ ven . lb rJ bi ® h
goes down into the cellar, takes on board the par-
ticular poet we may require at the time tee
humorous, sentimental, or elegiac bard, as
the case may be—and slowly raises him from
the ci liar to the editorial iloor- Before
entering the editorial ofhee be is shaved,
s* 1 amocced, and turned out, clot.hr a ana in
his right mind. A copper helmet u then p aced
upon his head-this is to prevent him from blow-
ing out any panes of glass with ha hiccups. When
taehas written his ode or lyric, or elegy, or what-
ever it is, the bard-ko«per draws ffom t ®
Castilian spring—the classical name our poets give
the rum cask-half-a-gailon of insoiration. and
then hustles him into the lift, and rushes him down
to the cellar again. With precautions, and
by these means, we have been able to mangge our
poets pretty fairly, but it is a weary a all
is said. We have been ‘I, B ™/. ° m fore-et
thinking of our troubles that we almost forget
what we were going to tell you about the reat oi
our policy. We think, however, it is Oi. 0 . a
quarter-in advance,
At the Bathurst races. Excited metai-
lioian from the metropolis: “ This “O' th’ next,
want t’Jay 501’10 about th’ two Ks—Konfid nee
and Komus.
Mr. D. M. Beynon, who rowed No 7 for
the “ dark blues’'in the intercolonial of 'B3, nas
decided to settle permanently in Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps is an article of superior merit,
fore ask for it, and accept nothing' else.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the best remedial agent
known throughout the world.


PEPPER AND SALT.
He was reading from the Evening
a fearful and harrowing acoount of a fatal acci-
dent, touched here and there with all the blood-
curdling finish of a true sensational artist, while
she paused in her occupation of sewing some
fringe on to a complicated garment which re-
sembled a pair of win’ sails for a toy barque, and
listened to the readiog with a 6 x 4 gape of wonder
and admiration. Pausing to take breath, and
allow the seeds of horror to take root in the mind
of his spouse, he adjusted his Brazilian pebbles
and continued“ The carnage was frightful. At
one portion of the wreck we saw a charred and
blackened corpse taken from the mass of debris
Mutilated almost beyond recognition, it made us
Shudder to gaze upon what was once the
semblance of humanity, exulting in his
vitality and the strength of his manhood
and, as they bore away all that remained of earth,
—‘ Was the man killed ? ’ asked the listener—we
mused on the mutability of human life and
breathed a prayer for the departed— l Roderick
was the man killed ?’—soul of this unfortunate
victim of a fatal accident. • Roderick W. M’Klir-
toch, was the man killed? ’ ” Again, adjusting his
spectacles, after carefully wiping them, he slowly
finished the harrowing article. Then, placing the
paper[solemnly upon his knees, he replied: “ Really,
my dear, the paper doesn’t say!”
* * *
It was somewhat of early morn, and the
vice-regal crowd lay heels-up on the grass in the
gubernatorial grounds. “ Well, gentlemen,” re-
marked the Chief, after a gloomy silence, “ you
know my position. On Terry, of course, I can no
longer depend; and certainly the terms in which
Lord B couched his refusal to represent me at
the Balmain boat-shed were not such as to im-
press me with the idea that he is properly
imbued with an appreciation of the splendour
and magnificence of his appointment. Leigh
told me (and I heartily believe him) that
he would shed his ast drop of blood in my
defence ; and now he wants three days to go
kangaroo-rat shooting at Helbung. Of course, I
eoulda’t refuse the orderlies their annual treat to
the traot-foldcra' picnic, and that necessitated my
having to entreat Captain Gaicoigne to ‘ hump ’—
a colonial expression-a box of cigars round to the
residence of the Chief Justice. [Here disgust is
audibly expressed.] And while on the subject of
Gascoigne, I must remind you that no w he has com-
menced contributing to the Press he is practically
Independent of any favour that I can show him.
(Laughter.) It comes to this-What do you com-
plainof? Is it the beef ?” Ali:“ItisI” “What!
don’t you get enough of it ?” A 11; “Toomuoh!”
But where?” All: “Everywhere!” His Lord-
ship (much affected): “ Shall beef part us ?” All
(with emotion): “No!” “ Then, what will?” cried
His Excellency; “only tell me!” All (drawing
8liP ? °^ Epor from their Pockets ina ghostly man-
ner): This!” The Viceroy rose and proceeded
re f^ one of the Papers (Lord Bertie’s)
which differed from the others in the names only:
Host, log.-*Now, my Lord, after having par-
taken of that sirloin of beef, I ask you, at a
moment, when in the hearing of my friends you
W l h ° aUXWUS t 0 do your P e< BßTee honour by an
exhibition of truth (of which commodity the peer-
age is sadly deficient)—l ask you if in England or
elsewhere you have ever tasted a piece of beef
that can compare in flavour and juiciness with the
sirloin, my Lord, that you have just operated
upon—bred, my Lord, upon one of my own
stations.’”
* ♦ sf*
The glittering Mortimer Franklyn has
burst into prismatic pieces at last. Whose gleam-
ing chariot was it that so lately flashed along the
streets as a meteor through darkling Bkies? Whose
gilded menial was it that sat in such stately silence
behind? What figure was that which sat in front
and curbed the prancing steeds, even as Apollo
curbs the coursers of the sun? The figure was
that of Mortimer Franklyn, and his were the
gilded menial and the gleaming car. But never-
more that car shall.dashdown Collins-street; never
more that gilded menial sit behind and smile a
supercilious smile lat the tired foot-passenger;
nevermore that dapper figure sit in front and
watch the world with noble coachmanship
Ichabod ! It is all over. Mortimer has filed his
“sheddle.” We notice by the way, that he owes
our old friend, David Blair, £156. We will give
David more than half a plug of tobacco for his
c'aim. Valedictory :
Great Mortimer—Good-bye,
Your day is over;
But while it lasted—why,
You lived in clover.
You raised a magazine
To spread round culture,
With essays bright and keen:
It's had sepulture.
Though in it you j ourself
Your thunders hurled, sir,
Its coffin’s on the shelf
Beside the World's, sir.
The monster paper, too,
Has gone to blazes;
Ah, nevermore shall you
Ride round in chaises.
Out here—we’ll lay a sov.—
They are not plenty
The simple persons of
The type of Henty.
* * *
Writing about the picnic fashion so pre-
valent amongst Australians at holiday time, and
describing more particularly the favourite Sydney
resorts, the San Erancieco Chronicle writes-
“Then, lest the holiday spirit should flag, there
are special picnics, such as the bakefs’picnic, the
drapers’ picnic, the butchers’ picnic, &c., even
down to the undertakers’ picnic, of which ghouls’
feast there is no record kept as to whether the
tables be coffins and the utensils bones, though on
the occasion of their first jovial picnic they drank,
one and all, * Success to the trade.’ ” L tus sing-
le there reason good that the undertaker
And mute, should e’er in the dull black drape,
Nor share in the joy of the dusty baker,
But cling, all glum, to the gruesome crape;
Should he picnic ne’er ’neath the leafy shading,
And hear then never their voices sound,
But be ever grey-gloom and grief parading
For those they’ve placed in the silent ground ?
“Not much,”—with a good clean skull to drink
from,
The eye-holes plugged with a pieoe of cork,
And with food galore not a man should shrink
from
Firm belief that their jaws and their lungs can
work;
That their laugh is loud as the butcher’s, hearty,
Their mirth as mad as the baker’s bold.
For fun let us go to their jovial party—
They’ll sell us their grief when we’re dead and
cold.
* * *
A gentleman rejoicing in the historic name
of Hubbard—John Hubbard—publishes in the Mel-
bourne Herald “an apology to the officers,
soldiers, and attendants of the Salvation Army at
Richmond for creating a disturbance.” The ad.
doesn’t mention whether John apologises under
pressure of legal or religious conviction; but we
prefer to regard him as another Harmy trophy,
and will sing accordingly:—
John Hubbard he went to a meeting
(Gis motive was mischief, we fear)
The drums and the cymbals were beating,
But Johnny did nothing but jeer;
The “ Major ” discoursed about saving
Of souls, sometimes shouting a prayer—
But the way that J.H. kept behaving
Was shocking to everyone there.
He laughed when they let off a “ volley,”
No loud “ hallelujah ” or hymn
Caused John to repent of his folly—
They made no impression on him.
In vain did each “ lassie ” and “ captain ”
Dilate upon spiritual joys—
For iniquity Johnny was wrapt in,
So he merely kept making a noise.
But oh, blessed end to our story I
The sinner will sin nevermore;
The Harmy won Johnny to glory,
As it’s won over hundreds before.
'Gainst the faith which removeth a mountain
No rowdy young scoffer can stand—
The Harmy popped John in the fountain,
And now he plays bas 3 in the band.
* *
only last week we referred to a pathetic
little incident, in which the chief aotora were
Queen Victoria and a cabhorae. Her Majesty saw
a cabhorae drop down dead in the street at Wind-
sor, and next day England rang with the news
that she bad “caused intimation to be conveyed
to the lamenting owner that he should be presented
with another horse from the Royal stables.”
That touching yarn was detailed, enlarged upon,
preached about, and slobbered over. Amid it all,
one man remained unmoved. 'Twas the unhappy
cabman. That royal intimation about the royal
gee-gee was all a gorgeous purple fable. The
Queen did send an equerry to enquire respecting
the fate of the fallen horse, and there the matter
ended. “WiththatwomanJy sympathy for which
the Queen has ever been, &0., &0., &c.” she asked
the equerry if the horse was really dead. ‘‘lt is,
may it please your Majesty,” replied the flunkey.
“Ahl” murmured Victoria Regina, in a voice
shaken by emotion, “just as I expected. Drive
on, coachman.”
• ■ ■
Is there no philanthropist to take up the
cause of the poor Victorian prisoner? It appears
that the lodgers at Pentridge have been complain,
ing—and with good reason—of the handiwork of
the gaol-baker. Some of the bread provided last
week was so sour (and so heavy, mark ye!) that a
mutiny was narrowly averted. Reading of the
tragic scene at the Pentridge breakfast-table, we
cannot help comparing the unhappy lot of these
poor prisoners with that of so many thousands in
London, who never have occasion to complain of
the quality of their loaves. They never get any*
However, we are always ready to twang the lyre
on behalf ofjsuffering humanity, so let us sing
Mr. John Stewart, M.L.C., of Sydney, has
a down on “playacting” In Echools. At the
breaking-up of some Sydney academics it is not
unusual for the advanced pupils to perform some
harmless play-usually written for them by the
headmaster or his wife—where the maximum of
high morality is cunningly introduced with amini-
mum of love-making, it is impossible to dispense
with the latter altogether. So long as Megs and
queens, courtiers, and ladies of the bed-chamber
are represented at all, there must be flirting—a
disenmioating public insists upon it. The idea of
having Henry VIII. and Anne Boleyn pass each
other on the lobby without asking what o'clock it
is, is simply stupid. Still, there is a real objection
to school-theatricals, although Mr. Stewart has
missed it. It is this. The pieces are gener-
ally of an historical character, intended, no
doubt, to impress on the pupils eorrect opinions
regarding famous persons or events. Then, as the
plays are composed or adapted by the teacners,
they actually convey the latter's views concerning
those occurrences or characters. Now, history is
a universal liar, so that no two men were ever
known to quite coincide in their ideas of past
events. Thus, in a Protestant school, the speeches
put in the mouth of Wiiliam of Orange, or of
Elizabeth, would materially differ from those at-
tributed to the same persons by the authorities of
a Homan Catholic academy. We remember a
little French play of the battle of Waterloo,
where all the awkward boys in the school, with
a club-footed pupil teacher as Duke of Wellington
represented the British army, and after the first vol-
ley, were seen tumbling over each other—the com-
mander-in-chief under—to escape from the “ Old
Guard,” oonsisting.of half-a-dozen lads from the in-
fant class led by Ney, a baby of four, with a Scotch
tei rier charger and a cork-screw for a sabre—
Napoleon, a warrior of five, with a bell-topper
covering him to the chin, followed with a squad-
ron of cuirassiers mounted on broom-handles.
The hsro of Austerlitz, having been helped off with
his hat, called for three cheers for La Belle France
before starting at the thick end of a sugarstick
thrown to him from the stalls. But the most
thrilling historical school drama we remember to
have witnessed was at St. Kilian's Homan Catholic
school, Sandhurst (Vic.) The subject was the
French Revolution, and we .believe the late Dean
Baokhaus was the author. Anyway, there
wasn’t a dry eye in the crowd when An-
toinette came on loading the Dauphin by the
ear. The heir of St. Louis was a sturdy i, H ,
ehap from Irishtown, who had the’repuJ 0
of keeping the eyes of all the boys in hi B strenf °
a ohronic state of discolouration. Towards h?
queen mother he was curt and snappy 18
no end of confusion by offering to fight
with one hand, and so squelch the Revolu?/
Upon this truculent prince the stately etiaultJ
Versailles was quite lost, so that ’tZTZet 2
the audience when Sakterre “ fetched” him a kirt
in the stomach that lilted him howling into tW
orchestra, to learn that Dauphins had their duti fi !
as well as their rights, and that one of the ohw
duties was to keep a civil tongue in his head After
the collapse of this budding monarch, inter!
and his sans culottes had it all their own wav
treated the Royal family shamefully. Of cou!e
the object of the play was to show what
a set of sooundreis the canaille were ana
what pure-minded creatures composed' th*.
Titda w of , h LO v iS Seiz9 and his Austrian wife* 3
ohilT f ° JeCt WftS entlrely debated by the
objection shown by the tow-headed ruler and his
oonsort to be chivvied too much by the brats com
posing the rabble. So the curta n had to be rung
down on a scene of desolation, Louis being w
observed with Robespierre’s thumb in his mout!
which he appeared to be bene on picking clean 5
was the only way of oleaning it); Antoinett
with her lingers in the godless of **££?££
and the Dauphin-the hope of France-perehed on
the orchestra l drum yelling as he saw his real
father rise from the audience and approach him
with looks that boded no good. For months a
cruel vendetta .was carried on in the alleys and
“ nerB ° f Iriahtown * the representatives of
the people pouncing on the court party coming
from school, and walloping them into acquiescence
with revolutionary principles. This is why we set
our faces against school histrionism. It is not Mr.
Stewart s reason, but it is quite as valid.
* » *
Florence Voss, of Launceston (Tas.) was *
rosy-cheeked maiden, and engaged to be married
Whether Florence was personally dissatisfied with’
her oompiexion, or whether the young man was
wont to chaff his iove about the healthful ruddi-
ness of her cheeks, we know not. Anyway, Flo
wPhfh ! adS ° ff flvre boxes o£ lucif er matches
with the innocent intention of purifying her skin
and rivalling the lily. For a brief while tbe mis-
guided girl succeeded in her purpose—she attained
Wn Wb \ teaeea of death - But in the Better
World Flo. will recover her lost colour, and find
herself in the old earthly predicament. Let us
explain:— UB
Florence Voss, Florence Voss I
In her little grave she's laid;
It is sad to mourn the loss
Of a plump and rosy maid,
for that match couldn't wait,
Which by Hymen’s torch is lighted—
But five boxes went and ate,
And thus her pio3pects.blighted-
Tol-de-rol!
Up above, up above,
Foolish Florence now will sing;
But she cannot well improve
Her complexion there, poor thing!
For phosphorus, we know,
In Heaven never made is—
Though there's lots of it below
With old Lucifer, in Hades-
Tol-de rol I
ou^, e noble exam Plo set by our own “ Plain
one nFST Ml ; Froude ’ by the way - speaks of as
one of the most remarkable men he ever met-
ess him I) was not thrown away upon the ex-
Premier of Victoria. Mr. James Service has
askS . kQlBhthood ' Can ü be that—but, let us
Oh, Jimmy, is this rumour right ?
I ou fill us with amaze—
The offer of that little knight
Would many feltows daze;
Sir 'Enry and Sir John, to wit,
Saul Samuel and the rest,
They had a lit at thought of it *
And took the bait with zest.
Then, Jimmy, from the beaten way
Why do you thus depart ?
Can it be true, as 'people say,
You’re playing up for “Bart ?”
And, like our own plain William D.
(Excuse our little smile),
Content will be to bide-a-wee,
And do the thing in stvle.
M.oSoSfa w OSTi
a«f r a Serv°;
«cS;« .*«&“■ wHS
of each range is over 60ft. in depth and lf.fiif n?
ai'SHsf stnLssaas*«
+{;f 8 ?u wn °“ an immense rock which is railed
waB blasted and cut into in the
early days-the opening l in it is 12it hio-h nlft
gwajafla.ss.TfasasHSK
reminds one*of G
rock lead mfh« £ ht 8^ ps are cut ou t of the
Here the^unSrtunati 6 * 50 ° f , r ? u^h architecture.
waking "on theVad"
»!» prejudiced juige Tury always
found them guilty, and they suffered either
flogging or hanging immediately. Tbe initials of
the B daL h °f W h«n are cot toto the “oca and
Now-a-davs thf fnnf ?J 8 ° at i h( L BMe of the name.
SrnLa i« y !», tbe Bpot . ls a ve stable Arcadia. Fruit
j,rows in the greatest profusion, but the mad
beiDg impassable for vehicles it is never sent
and flga? 6 PlgB belng fed on peacbes * melons, milk,
The Doctors recommend Wolfe's Schnapps.
f® the oldest, the most widelv-
of 4 it* {?2l t bea ] lt | ful and progressive
the varieftea aro 88 UBe£u , l as it is varied, and
and think and nof Ja nuiD -5 ab,e - * et anyone sit
and having dl,WD lt f many uses and kinds,
Brothere" g ohin* l P3y an ins P ectj on visit to Bray
atook rLh! o» showrooms opposite the Joint
flndhnwvnJni^Pii“ I ? eBt and he will
list of thil nnnttn,^ 8 kn cwledge and Imperfect his
b B un tnfho advancing art There, to
general! v so a bese Providers of crockery—
•y,Bo called— draw from the world’s special-
ists their latest productions.* speciai-
medical attendant what he thinks of
W 01/q s Schnapps as a tonic and stimulant,
“TOO MUCH GLORY.”
{.Respectf ully addressed to his Worship the Mayor of
Sydney.]
When you were chosen, well, we thought
You, certainly, are plain,
But once installed, and 10, unsought
You’d lavish gold like rain I
We thought that you’d ring fairy bells
As in th’ Arabian Nights,
And turn this city of bad smells
To one of Pure Delights.
You and the “ boys,” the papers teach,
Are not on speaking terms I
And ev'ry Aldermanic speech
Sows, thick, Rebellion's germs.
We're waterless;-the city ’sfoul;
And you, the Champion Cleanser,
Are laid up—it is time to grotvil—
“ Bad with the inlluenza.”
Put it about that you’ve resigned—
It is the old, old story;
The long black night-gown, cat skin-lined,
Por you’s proved too much glory.
Take our advice, your comfort win;
You’ll find it for the best:—
Lie curled up till December in
Your Annandale mare’s-nest.
ONLY RILEY.
“ The Warialda to Tam worth mail-coach
was stuck up by an armed man, who said ‘he
was only Riley,’ and who took away the mail bags,
but did not molest the driver or passengers.”—
Daily paper.
He came not with a rip or rush,
But stole out softly from the bush,
And with a smile he
Said, “ There’s no need to look so pale,
Just hand me down the bloomin’ mail,
I’m only Riley.”
Delightful phrase 1 Impressive, short
And sweet, and with a wicked sort
Of fiumour slyly
Suggested, thou a long-felt want
Hast well supplied—our hand upon’tl
“I’m only Riley 1”
How often have we seen a sleek
And unctuous villain’s smile so speak;
Ah, yesl—the while he
The widow and the orphan robbed,
That smile said, as the loot he fobbed—
"lt’s only Riley 1”
How often—how the memories crowd—
Have we known patriots tierce and loud,
But desp’rate wily,
Wink as they laid felonious hands
Upon the public purse or lands—
“lt’s only Riley ?”
And lawyers, too; have we not seen,
When they had noosed a client green,
Them add agilely
Their costs up—fearsome costs and wild—
And tag the same. They also smiled,
“It’s only Riley I”
Have we (thank God they’re dead) not too
Engaged us brilliant writers who
Have come in vilely
Drunk—.urn running down each beard,
Whose one excuse was hiccuped weird—
“lt’s only Riley ?”
Ah I yes, indeed. Immortal phrase,
Thou hast before thee length of days;
Thou Attest well each viler phase
When uttered drily.
The mad, tbe bad, the dupe, the tool,
Tne knave, the drunkard, and the fool,
Have one excuse—sublimely cool—
“ It's only Riley.”
THE SONG OF THE BREAD.
(After Hood.)
With fingers weary and worn,
With flats as big as a club,
A prisoner sit, in a prisoner's “togs,”
Trying to tackle his grub ;
Chew, chew, chew,
At morsels as heavy as lead,
While darker and darker his countenance grew,
He sang this song of the bread.
“ Bite, bite, bite,
And disliking it all the time;
Bite, bite bite—
Is this how they conquer crime ?
Sour, and lumpy, and hard—
Hard, and lumpy, and sour;
Still striving to swallow a bit of the crumb
That’s been sticking this last half-hour.”
“ ’Tis OI for the bygone days,
Before I made one ‘ mistake
The days long fled, when I usually fed
On a chop or a filleted Bteak—
Fat, and juicy, and thick,
Thick, and juicy, and fat;
O, blimy I To think that a covey like mo
Must solace his stomach with that!"
“ Sometimes I long for Death—
The phantom that ‘ square ’ folks dread;
I should but smile at his terrible shape
If he brought me some decent bread—
Nice little rolls, all hot:
Crusty, and tempting, and sweet,
French loaves, or Gerinan-I wouldn’t oare what,
But this isn’t fit, to eat.”
“ Oh, warders, with waistcoats round.
Oh, warders, robust and stout,
It is a t my teeth that I mind so much,
But my temper is wea’ing out.
Swear, and grumble, and curse—
Curse, and grumble, and swear.
Can the chaplain find any prisoner's mind
In a proper condition for prayer'?”
With fingers weary and worn,
With fist as big as a club,
A prisoner sat, ia a prisoner’s “togs,”
Trying to tackle his grub;
Chew, chew, chew,
At morsels as heavy as lead—
While darker the frown on his countenance grew
(Ah, that the loaves might be spongy and new!)
He sang this song of the bread.


OUR CHILDREN’S COLUMN.
LETTERS FROM THE LITTLE FOLKB.
hr-R young friends who kindly allowed us three
mfifiks’ holiday, have again begun to send in their
flvcellent letters. The first of these is irom a very
precocious child, a sort of J. P. T. Caulfield in em-
hryo He writes:—
Bounedary St.,
DrisDun,
febury 9.
Mv par, the old joker as we calls him, gets The
bttt letin, an I sees the children’s koiutnun you
hav hke the jurnil; i wants to rite sum thin for
thebrisbun kids to see. Myeisturs got a sweat-
hart with red hare, an our dog bit the posteman,
hut the dog semes rite, but the postema i is mad.
par giv him 10 bob ; par sayes if the dog had bit
perkuns he would have dide of delicous trern-
belins. Mar sayes perkuns will only be bit by
sharks, i am onle V, an my techur at skool is a
yung lade; we are lernin; we are 7. my big
brotaur Joe rote this in my booke, an i got kaned
for it :
‘ Sisturs an brothurs littul made,
how many may you be,
7 an a bul dog sur she sade,
an wonderin looked at me.
2 of us in the gutter lie,
my sistur an my brothur,
the reste of us stop at horn
an run for beare for mothur.
iam jak of skool, and will run erway as soon as i
can. _ _ ~
R- Rupert Johnson.
r _. , , . ~. _
[That is a very nice letter, Rupert. You may
write again.— Ed. B.J
“ Bungaroobie,
« Dear Bulletin,— l am so glad you let little
children write to you. lam only nine years of old.
I have a doll. I have had it four years. It is very
•good yet. It is dead. When I get a sweetheart I
'Suppose I won’t want a doll. I have a pony which
'Sometimes carries the mail. The male I refer to
18 jjjy brother. Can you tell me what is the matter
with Dan. O’Connor? He hasn’t made any
speeches sinoe you showed him in those pretty
pictures. Who is * Hop ? ’ He has a good name
for the land of the kangaroo and lame Ministries.
My sister Emma has a swell who comes to see her
on Sunday. He used to wear a watch, but as he
broke the glass face of It talking to Emma every
time he came he left it off. Here is a picture of
Jim Brown and Emma
“ Abelgitha Buggs.”
[You write very prettily, A.B. There is nothing
unusual the matter with Dan, and the Post-office
is getting better.— Ed. B.]
r Bear Sir —I wish to add a little scrap to your
tmidren s Column. I am one year and 16 days
oia, or 16 years and one day, I forget which. lam
f°nd of playing and singing. It cheers my
mother while she is washmg aDd sorubbing to hear
me playing‘Home Sweet Home,’or ‘Work, Boys,
My pa and my brothers always have to go
iv u look after horses when I begin to play.
JJontyou ihtnk my hand writing is exquisite. It
u‘i 1 the Italian style. T have a pony. It used to
ave a long mane and tail until my sister went to
Sydney and saw the fashions. Since then my pony
has had no mane or tail worth mentioning. I will
write again soon.
“ Ruby Bridget Brown.”
[Do write again, dear; the W.P.B. just yawns
for another letter from you. We don’t like your
writing; it is less the Italian than the Buogaroo
blacks' style of caligrsphy. You are a good girl to
play and sing to your mother while she is occupied
with light domestio duties.— Ed. B.]
Bulletin.! must tell vou about my dog.
+ dld the other day, bs Throw you know
to appreciate a joke. Pa bad a few
enfuT 8 with him for dinner, and we were s tting
on \t and talking, while the dog was 1. obirg
bein» *w, he always used to be at table, but pa
too deeply interested in our conversation,
his n?* hi L m altogether this time. Unable to attract
attention by scratching his feet, he ran out
in the garden, and picked a Forget-me-not flower,
which, running in again, he put in his hand
Your’, &o,
“Aaron Mores.”
[That is a very pretty dog story Anania—we
mean Aaron. You would ;make your fortune
in Queensland, writing anecdo es of the sinuous
snake and voracious alligator for the papers up
there.—Ed. B.]
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir,—l want to tell
you about our new horse pa bought here last
week. His name is Dodger, and he is a grey horse,
We haven’t got him now ; he left. Pa said it
would be oheaper to buy a horse and buggy than
to be always riding on the tram. So he bought
Dodger and a dog-cart. Well, the first day pa and
Mr. Johnson were all the morning trying to fix the
harness right. They didn’t seem to understand
much about it, anyway. Pa got the breastplate
where the breeching goes, and when Mr. Johnson
wanted to change it pa got pretty mad, and asked
whose horse it was, and he said he didn’t know, if
everyone had their own. Perhaps it belonged to
and he kicked pa up against the hen house, after
which he set his tail at half-mast and hit out for
the Hawkesbury. When I climbed on top of the
gate post I just saw him travelling. The harness
whioh was on him was Hogging him at every jump,
and you bet he was moving. Pa got savage and
backed the dog-cart up near the hen house vici -
someone pa had robbed. Pa is a lawyer.
Then pa called him a bad name, same as Ananias
was, and said he was no gentleman, and Mr. John-
son hit pa over the head with the winkers and
they had a fight for 20 minutes Then Mr. Johnson
knocked pa up against the thickest end of Dodger
ously. The wheel went over Brindle’s (our dog)
foot and he bit pa in the leg, and pa rushed in and
got his guh and shot him. I think that dog-cart is
for sale now. Pa says it’s not much used, anyway
We live at Parramatta. I am two years of age"
—Yours truly, 8 ’
“Joe Wacks.”
[That is a very interesting story, Joseph; but if
you write us again in that style don’t bring the
letter yourself. Your parents might not care to
have to pay freight on your corpse from Red fern.
—Ed. 8.,
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—l was very
sorry to find the children a letters were outlast
week, but hope you will print this. We do have
fun now; the water is cut off at our place, and we
don’t have to get washed so many times. Pa had
a disappointment the other day. He got in the
bath, and turned on the shower and soaped him-
self. Then he went to turn it on again to finish
bathing and the thing was dry Pa had to scrap
tbe soap off himself witn a knife and you ought
to have heard what he called the waterworks
people. Pa is religious, and goes to church, but
I am afraid the language he used on that
occasion will damage his chances for a gsod
position in the sweet forevermore. He says he
sooner go to (ma says I musn't say it) —than die
ofthirstin Sydney. Ma says pa isn't like Job,
and he says he’d like to job some of the water-
works people in the eye. He says the Nepean
scheme and the Botany dam are no dam good,
and says he will go and live on the Parramatta so
he cm carry bis own water up with two buckets
and a yoke. We live in George-street, Sydney,
and pa keeps a hot-pie emporium. lam three
years old —Yours, truly,
" Polly Jacobs.”
[Yes, Polly, if he talks in that reckless way of
a dwmen he will have a very poor show hereafter
—very poor indeed.— Ed. B.]
"Pitt St., red fern,
“ 22 feb , 86
“ Dear Mr. Bulletin,— l have bean so pleased
with your childrin’s kolum that mar seys I kan
writ tu you if T get a Dikshoney and spel karectly.
i don’t wont Dickshonery as i go tu scule evry day
an i always git the most marks (on the hand) (or
writen and spellln. i like your way of putting
in thee sketches, it is better than the Jernil
wot don’t give sketches. Well, Bully, my sis-
ter s got a pare of duks which she bred herself
batched by a hen that dident kare about them;
these duks are very pekuler, as they kant hardly
stand, seam tu hevy behind, as sumtimes they
luse there balance, the other one gits on bis side
and kant get rite, except by grate deel of laber, by
swingin thee other leg round and round like a
paddle wheel, only harder, and with his mouth
npen. Tha are very erfectionate duks as wen one
is down and leant git rite thee other makes a loud
quak quak. and large teers runs down his noze.
Can you tel us wot i« thee mattar with them duks ?
Yours, erfectionate,
“ Harold Willoughby."
“ P.S.-I always buys The Bulletin. I kant
dror duks well.”
[No, you can’t. If we were to put your pictures
in people would be puzzled to know whether they
were fancy p ortraits of the new Ministers or re-
productions of Sydney bank carvings. -Ed. B 1
“Dear Mr. Bulletin, Esquire,— Wbat have
you been doing to our minister ? Have you been
laying it on to him or making pictures of him
or what ? Because he says all sorts of
nasty things about you, and said that peope
that read The Bulletin would go to a place that
my pa talks about when he aims at a nail
and hits his thumb. I am writing a poem
to the moon, wbat shall I do with it when
it is finished? We have a gas fire in the
kitchen.’ [Put your poem just there, dear.— Ed.B.j
Here is some poetry I wrote :
We sat beside the streamlet,
Where muddy waters rolled,
And when the evening's dews arose,
I caught an awful bad cold.
“ Estrella Dobbs.’*
[Your poetry, dear, is not first-rate. Dews don’t
arise, and Ihe concluding line is what your good
clergyman would call “ multy ’’ Pat it with your
ode to the moon.— Ed. B.] 1


SOCIAL
Last week several gentlemen met in
Svdney Town Hall lor the purpose of presenting
Mr. Playfair ana his amiable daughter each with a
souvenir purchased out of the surplus funds left
from the picnic which was given to Mr. riaytair
shortly before the expiration of his fc® rm ,1 0 '
A handsome silver epergne was tendered to the
ex-Msyor, whilst Miss Playfair wes
of a beautiful gold watch and chain. The interest-
iGg* atfair was rendered more (or less) so by a tew
flowery speeches, iti which compliments were
pelted liberally at each other by aldermen and the
ex-Mayor. It would hardly have been amiss if
someone had suggested that Mrs. Bailey (Mr. Piay-
fair’s sister) should receive some small acknow-
ledgment for all the trouble she took in assisting
her niece in the duties of Mayoress. Even a word
of thanks to that lady, wedged into the speeches,
would have been better than nothing at ail.
* * •
The engagement of Dr. W. E. Warren, of
Elizabeth-street, to Miss Jessie, youngest daughter
of the Rev, H. Macready, of Sydney, is an-
nounced.
if * *
Mr. Gale, a promising solicitor, of Moss
Vale, has recently become engaged to Miss I abei
Ross, of Kingsley, Burwood.
v v *
The beautiful floors of Needs’ Rooms were
thoroughly appreciated on Wednesday, the 24th ot
February, when about 160 guests responded to the
invitations issued by the three hosts, Captain
Pullen, Mr. Gubbins, and Mr. Stapleton, of H.M.sS.
Lark. Some of the costumes were very pretty,
tulle being the prevailing material used by the
younpr ladies, leaving the rich brocades ana satins
to the matrons. One particular pretty costume
was worn by MiS3 Harbord, composed entirely of
black lace over white satin ; her hair done in a
crown at the top of her head was set off by an
aigrette, which suited the wearer admirably; Miss
Nellie Manning looked her best in a sombre tint of
brown tulle; Miss Clara Manning in cardinal tulle;
Miss Throckmorton, perhaps, carried off the palm,
in light golden brown tuile, long ribbons at the
back oflsßirt, brown brocade bodice cut very low,
with just a strap across the shoulder, displaying
very ivhite arms and shoulders. Two recent brides
were also of the company. Miss Cox was, per-
haps, the only debutante in white tulle; Miss
Labertouche looked well in pink; Mies Hay, in
white silk and net, looked charming; Miss Fischer,
in pink relieved by white lace, looked well; Miss
Richardson, in pale pink tulle and cardinal rib-
bons: Miss D'ckson’s pale blue silk suited her well;
Mis Darley, in ivory silk and lace, looked stylish;
Mi»B ate hen, in cream cbeaiue, tufted net and
sa tin- Miss M. Manning, m black satin and net; the
Misses Busby, white and pale bue tulle. Amongst
the guests were Major-Genera land Mrs Richard-
son, Colonel and Mrs. Roberts ifleut -Colonel and
Mrs Ai >-ey, Lieut. Clarke and Dr. Barsey (Miranda),
Capt Pike (tt.M.S. Harrier), Capt. Taylor (W olve-
riue), Mr. and Mrs. Le Patourel, Mr. and Mrs.
Savage. Capt. and Mrs. flouverie. Mr. and Mrs.
Eosbery, Mr. and Mrs. Modarty, Mrs. and Miss B.
Macartnur, Mrs. and tne Misses Denne, Capts.
Terry and Lee (A.D.C. s), Mr. Wallington, the
Misses Josephson. The music might have been
better, nevertheless dancing was kept up till the
small hours.
» * *
An engagement between Miss Pile, daugh-
ter of Mr. Pile, of the well-known firm of
auctioneers (Mills and Pills), and Mr, R. Richards,
of the Town Hall, is aonounced.
* • »
Badowa, Glenmore-road, was a' scene of
gaiety on Tuesday, February 23, when the youthful
nost and hostess eutertaiaed about 30 guests .to
celebrate the first anniversary o f their wedding
day. The floor was excellent and the music every-
thing that could he desired. Nothing could surpass
the attention of tne host and hostess in their inde-
fatigable endeavours to make the evening a
thorough success. Black seemed toe prevailing
colour worn. The hostess was in bla-CK net and
bodice of black satm with a spray of natural sun-
flowers on the corsage; her sis<er donned a skirt of
white laco, high bodice of silk trimmed with
marabout; a pretty little fairy with golden hair
looked nice in pale pink; a black lace skirt with
black satin bodice cut low with black net-tuffed
sleeves, relieved by a band of crimson velvet
around Ihe neck, hair done in large basket plaits,
suited tne wearer to perfection; her sister in a
Bimilar dress, bodice cut low (which w»s sleeveless)
with crimson band around the neck, hair done
high, looked charming. The company broke up
about 3 a.m. alter spending a most enjoyable
evening. # #
Alderman Hancock, of Balmain, is also to
be thusly honoured because he is about to take a
pleasure * #
A cricket match between the Daily Tele-
graph and Sydney Bulletin is to be played at
the Association Cricket Drouud to day. (i'hurs-
dfty> * * *
Owing to (he inclemency of the weather
the cricket maici-fbe Bar versus Army and Navy
which was held at Victoria Barracks on Saturday,
the 21th—had not many spectators of ilic fair sex,
but those who were there sooner than miss any ot
the piny donned oilskin and opened umbrellas.
This being the case io was difficult to notice many
toilettes, but between the showers the following
were noticed; —A recent bride was very hecom-
iogly attired in coffee-coloured muslin and laoe,
sunbeam hat trimmed with navy and pale blue
ribbons, sunshade en suite; Mrs. Bouvene looked
chic in a com< lete costume of white, sailor flat,
and white sunshade; Miss Darley was in all bJack;
Mrs. Armstrong, in a combination ot black and
grey* Mrs. Airey, in pink and maroon, whose hat
did not suit her costume ; Mrs. LeJPatourel, in dove-
coloured cashmere; Mrs. Field, in a ladylose cos-
mtne of paie-greeri; a very stylish costume was
composed of dark-brown cashmere over a petti-
coat of coffee and brown striped velvet. The
match, which was played in one innings. resulted
in sl victory for tbc Army and Navy by 19 runs.
* * *
Captain Heatbcote, V.C., father of Mr.
Ccltehfctt Walker’s/igricse, writes to say he never
had the honour of oeionging to the Royal Navy,
as was erroneously stated, but to the sister ser-
vice -
Lord Carington entertained the members
of the new Ministry at dinner last Monday night.
* * *
Mr. J. M 4 Evoy is to be picnicked at Botany
next Thursday, prior to his departure for Europe.
sfc H* *
One of the obief events of the week was
the marriage of Miss Virginia E. Co*sett Stephen
to Mr T W. Cure-Kidded, eldest so > of the Jate
Hon. J. Carre-Riddell, of Civers Carre, Elstbrn-
wick Victoria. Tee ceremony t .ok om.ee on
Tuesday, the 23 id Fab., at St. Andrew s Cathedral,
and was embe,fished «if h full choral service. The
bride, who w ra a handsome lace skirt, ornate with
ostrich featheip, bodice, and train ot French white
satin and tne usual wreath and v il, was given
ikw v by her grandfather, Sir Alfred Stephen,
G C.B. A little page, Mester Stephen, bore
the ' bride 8 long traio, and eight pcetty little
brides.uaida followed, arrayed all alike, in s ft
while muslin frocks, paie amber sashes, and mar-
guerite wreaths, and each wore a pretty gold
brooch, the gifts of the bridegroom. The
fittle mites were Misses Stephen (2), Miss
Mabel Paige, Miss E. Busby, Miss Nellie
Arnold, Mi>s<.s Bedford (21, aid Miss K. Smith.
Mr> W. W. Sjeph«n acted as best man. The
ceremony over, about 100 quests accompanied
the bridal party to Cintra, where they inspected
the numerous handsome presents, and gave atten-
tion to their innerman. Among the guests were—
Lady and the Misses Martin, Lady Stephen and the
Misses Stephen, the Hon. A. Campbell, Mrs. Camp-
bell, Hon. W. Busby, the Mis°es Watt, Mrs. Eustace
Smith. Mrs. and Miss Pain, Mr. and Mrs Paige, Mr.
and Mrs. Wise, Mr. and Mrs. Selwyn-Smith, Mr. A.
Nathan, Mr. Cecil Cowper, Mr. Severn. Mr. and Mrs.
Browning, Mr. and Mrs. Yilleneuve-Smith, Mr. C.
B. Stephen, Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Stephen, and nu-
merous other distinguished personages. The bride
and bridegroom left during the afternoon for
Sandringham, where the honeymoon was spent.
SOCIAL FIXTURE
Sydney Liedertafel Concert, Exhibition
■Building March 9.
Complimentary Garden Party tendered to
Mr. J. M'Evoy, Botany Maroh 11
Sydney Owl Club’s Garden Party, Sir
Joseph Banks’, Botany March 18
?
Sydney, Wednesday.
My dear Belle,— Sydney just now is so decidedly
gloomy—nearly everybody who is anybody is out
of town, and we whom various circumstances
compel to stay behind feel injured and listless.
There were a few faint efforts made last week to
cater for our amusement, but who can be amused
at anything 1 in such weather ? The good-natured
officers of the Lark gave a dance one night in
Head’s Rooms; but whoever enjoys a dance in the
very height of summer must indeed be dancing
maa, ana I never knew until this night what a lot
of mad men and women Sydney contained. An-
other diversion was Miss consett Stephen’s wed-
ding A pretty weddiog it was too; but after all
there iB a goon deal of sameness about weddings,
and when they come so thick as th«y hive done
this year one gets pretty tired of that kind of
show. A rather nice conceit was givea upon the
occasion of the opening of the new Convent in
Victoria-street, Darlinghurst, last—let me see—l
thiok it was Thursday night. Mrs. Riley sang
“Judith” very beautifully, and Miss Cowley, the
“Evening Prayer,” from “Eli,” charmingly. A
novelty was the clever step-dancing of two youth-
ful children, but I was always under the impres-
sion that religious people objected to dancipg,
therefore was rather surprised at this item finding
a place on the programme. The concert w»s well
attended and must have materially benefited the
convent fund.
It appears that what I told you about the
directors of a certain bank here enforcing several
stringent rules upon their clerks, has come to
their ears, and they (the directors) are simply
furious to think that somebody has had the
audacity to make their noble ideas of rulership
common gossip. They have threatened to give
instant dismissal to the clerk who has thus exposed
tnem if they can discover the identity of the
offending one, but although they have done
their utmost to “fix” him, their efforts have
so far proved futile. In the meantime, I have
made up my mind never to approach the vicinity
of any of these directors until the storm blows
over, lest their fury should in some way vent
itself upon me; but there is one big bit of con-
solation in the knowledge that this little rumpus
has been the means of partially staying the hand
of oppression, for matters in that bank have been
a trifle easier for the poor clerks latterly. I am
more than glad about it. I’m simply jubilant I
I see that the ladies of Berne (Switzerland) have
been asserting their rights lately by insisting upon
giving tneir votes at the poll. It was decreed ia
1852 that every female paying direct communal
rates had a right to vote, but at the same time it
was ordained that the vote should be recorded by
proxy only. This law, straDge to say, has never
been put into force until this year, ana the citizens
of Berne were not a little startled to see 500 of
their womankind present themselves (or their
proxies) at the poll on one particular Sunday. Of
course, although the men could not interfere with
this bold venture, still the fair but determined
ones have been dreadfully quizzed and caricatured
by the opposite sex m consequence. lam sorry
now, dear, I did not take more particular notice
of the Bernese women when we passed through,
but as we only stayed a little over a day, I had
enough to do to take in the chief features of the
town. I remember noticing, however, that nearly
all of them wore long silver chains round their
necks aud looked on the whole rather picturesque.
As for Berne itself, it is grand looking without
being beautiful, but the river which flows around
it is just splendid. Berne and its river have been
likened by some authoress—Frederika Bremer, I
think—to the hard but powerful featured Roches-
ter and the sweet and fascinating Jane Eyre in
the charming book of that name, and although
the simile may seem queer, still for those who
have seen Berne, it fits very well.
I begin to think that “ civility ” in Sydney must
indeed be a very expensive article. As I have no
doubt you are aware, we have here our expen-
sive and our cheap shops; the former give you
good articles at big prices with civility thrown in,
whilst the latter provide you with goods of very
fair quality at a low rate, but— minus the civility,
and, tastioious as it may seem, I am bound to con-
fess I prefer the civility even if I have to pay a
high price for it. How would you like to be
served by a man in his shirt-sleeves who, if you
aren’t at once satisfied with the goods shown you,
tells you “ you can either take them or leave
them, it’s all the same to him.” And then when,
after waiting an unconscionable time for your
change, it is tossed to you, and you, not being an
adept at sleight-of-hand tricks, fail to catch it,
whereupon it rolls on to the floor, and nobody
offers to pick it up for you—how would you like
this, I say ? It tae proprietors of these establish-
ments ooiy knew what an amount of custom
they lose by not making sure that the at-
tendants possessed even ordinary politeness
I am sure they would be more careful in their
selection. This little bit of experience had made
me absolutely fearful of cheap shops, and £ shill
have to be very hard pushed indeed before I ever
enter one again. I really believe such petty
worries as these are harder to bear than big trou-
bles, don’t you? Friends may prove faithless,
banka may break, and hearts may break, but as
sure as fate you can get over these things. People
sympathise witn you in a big trouble, aud you
pity yourself as well, till by constant attention and
smoothing down the grievance is gradually worn
away, and nothing but a shadow remains ; but
who thinks of pitying you became a man who sells
diess stuff to you is iu h's shirt sleeves, or because
your cabman insists upon dtiviag on the tr*,m
lines, .vhich is agony to a peisun with nerves, oi
because you are deprived of your plunge-bath
every other morning? Nobody, of course ; and
that’s why our petty, every-day worries are so
hard to bear. Oh, be thankful, Belle, dear, that
you don’t live in a town where there are cheap
shops, tram lines, and a constant scarcity of water.
Of course you have read the accounts of the
extraordinary number of fatal accidents which
have oocurred to young ladies in England and
France during the season, in consequence of
their ball-dresses beiog accidentally ignited
by candles. Now, the first thought that occurred
to me when I read of the sad affair was that it
was surely little short of madness using the dan-
gerous candle on the toilette table at all. Why not
the safety-lamp which we have had here for many
years? However, lam well aware that some
■ eople cling to the usage of the old-fashioned
candle, and nothing will induce them to give it up,
but I don’t like to think of the number of deaths
which have been caused by this imperfeot, greasy,
and much-to-be-avoided light. In speaking of the
Misses Fitzroy, who were burnt to death just; as
they were about to set out for a ball, a celebrated
doctor urges that the very best thing a person can
do when finding himself or herself on fire is to lie
down flat on the floor; by so doing the flames
which, as you know always ascend, will have no-
thing to feed upon, and will quickly die out. You
may have noticed that people who are marked
with burns are generally disfigured about the face,
neck, and arms, which is quite natural when an up-
right position is persisted in. So if ever you have
the misfortune to catch fire try and remember
these injunctions, and it may be the means of sav-
ing you from disfigurement or even of preserving
your life.
I believe the Sydney Liedertafel people are busy-
ing themselves over their forthcoming concert,
which eventuates next Tuesdav, and which Lord
and Lady Carington have promised to attend, it
seems to me that since the Philharmonic Society
has started, and Herr Patek’s band has been
formed, the forces of the Liedertafel have-been
somewhat weakened. It can hardly be otherwise,
since musicians in Sydney, and especially instru-
mentalists, are not so plentiful that two new
societies can be inaugurated without affecting the
parent one. But we shall see what they can give
us next week, spite of the Philharmonic and Herr
Patek.
The latest society sensation in London is the
news that the second son of a real live earl is
about to marry the daughter of one of the largest
London linen-drapers. This social levelling
appears to be making rapid strides just now, for it
is only the other day we heard that a woman of
title (Lady Granville-Gordon) whose coffers were
empty, had opened a milliner’s shop, and that dur-
ing Ascot week alone she had made £5OO profit out
of the people of wealth-new people—who flocked
to give their orders. Well, as somebody remarks
“it is really quite time this class of people bega
to earn their own livings.”
Do you remember seeing in an old album of
mine photographs of the Princess Royal and cor
sisters, taken wearing little round turban ha'.s
which, I believe, were called the pork-pie sha pt- ?
Well, that is the hat you will have to wear next
winter, and I know it will become you. You &ie
not to wear it tipped very much forward, which
makes you appear tn be foreheadlesj and w hi.
was considered good style in the old days, but you
must place the little round tbipg fair on top of
your head and let your curly fringe just peep
below the brim. They are coquettish little hats,
aud, of oourse, will be much abused, and I very
much fear they will be worn by those whose long,
sallow, ancient faces will make them look ridi-
culous, but this is no more than what we have
always to cope with when an inexpensive article
of fashion ” catches on.” Bo you get one as soon
as possible. Lady Carington generally dresses her
three little daughters in pure white—a sensible
plan, as there is nothing to beat white when a good
laundress is at hand; it never fades, you know
and is appropriate at all times. By the way,
would be quite refreshing to hear of somethi
Lady Carington does which is not either sensible
good-natured.
It has just this moment occurred to me
some of us promised to go to the Town Hall to-
night to hear a private rehearsal of Herr Patek s
Band. I am ever so glad I didn’t forget about it,
for I see the programme contains many gems, and
besides I have heard such a lot about this same
band that I am quite curious to hear it. Not a
moment to lose.
Yours as ever,
MAB.
The Rev. Joseph Barnier, of Sydney, says
that “if Saint Paul were alive now he would not
go into a Sydney theatre.” No, he would go to the
Church of the Reverend J oseph, or to a Sunday
school picnic down the harbour, or church bazaar,
if he wanted real sport.
“Backblocks,” thus writes us, concerning
“ The Fate of a Poet “Dear Bulletin,— A few
years ago there existed down in one of the
Arcadian towns of Riverina, among others less
worthy of notice, a young man who gained for
himself a name, what is locally known as the
" rally,” and a six-by-three allotment in the local
cemetery, all in a very short space of time. He
was a bank clerk, a youth whose gigantic mind
when not engaged in calculating the interest on
the overdrafts of the neighbouring “ cookatoos”
(in the Bank in which he was employed), sought
the gentle muse, and broke forth in verse. Un-
like the average poet of the plains, his odes were
varied, and had a wide range—one week a touch-
ing poem on a defunct wombat, from his pen,
would appear, while at other times some thrill-
ingly descriptive lyric of his, on tne danger
attendant on the capture of the bounding
paddymelon would fill the poet’s corner of
the local paper. But in an unlucky moment
he dashed off a few little stanzas on “ Love.”
and after decorating them with various
crosses to represent kisses, he posted them
to his girl, the only daughter of the richest
squatter in the district, whose stations ranged
from the limpid waters of the Murrumbidgee to
the red-gum forests of the G-ulpa. Toe wool-king,
however, had a decided objection to this daughter
marrying anyone below the rank of an M.P. or a
50-guinea land agent, and knowing she had more
than a passing regard for the bank cledt, decided
on a very mean plan of stopping the correspond-
ence, viz, intercepting all her letters. He
accordingly arranged with the post-office that no
letters for the station should be delivered to any-
one but himself, and he regularly went every
morning and got them. When he received the
poetry intended for his daughter, like a certain
ancient individual whose doings are on record,
“he was sorely troubled.” After reading it a
few times he started *• on the booze.” In the
afternoon, a little while after the bank had
closed, he lurched up to the front door
and started banging on it with his whip-
handle. By ill-luck the poet went to see wbat was
wanted. With unsteady hand he of the flocks and
herds caught the versifier by the scruff, and an
immediate adjournment to the gutter took place,
and then a select melee, was Degun. fcicreams,
oaths, tooth-picks, fists, stock-whip, billets-doux,
and sheepwash tobacco intermingled for some
time, until the police arrived and restored order.
Then the old man up and explained the cause of
the trouble, and the manager of the bank, whp
was in the crowd, promptly told the poet that his
services were dispensed with. That night he left
the town—no one knew where he went to. About
a week after his body was found stuck on a SDag
in the river. Nothing was found on him—not even
a poem. His girl expressed no sorrow on hearing
of his death, but simply remarked “ that she sup-
pose l that when they- found him he didn’t look
over-gay,” aud within a few u onths married an
ariatoctatic young station manager, whose father
ran tae dustoart in tne town close by. The poet s
remains lie in a quiet corner of tne cemetery, only
a peg with a number on it marking his last resting
place. Crows oitea alight on this and mys-
teriously peer down on the grave and iaw, as
much as to say—“ Suoh is the fate of poets.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps has been 40 years before the
public.
Jgl UKKIf VI B 3 HOW ROO M g.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture; hatstandr 1
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT '
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in aXQUISTTri
taste, the very latest fashion; well wc.*twil
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. a ’ °*
W
ALL CABINETS for Choice
very:
Newton, and Lamb
.BIN RTS tor Choice China iT
ELEGANT, just
imb. aiue T,
N
OVELTIES In BOUDOIR and BOW WTNrim?
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. W
B
EDROOM SUITES complete in
1 and yery handsome designs, with iif
Sydney.
I7IIGMT-POUND BEDROOM SUlTais^:
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising wars
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLIv
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneH-street. w
plate-glass door; wasjh.sxajnjj, with marblel™
and tile hack and Towel rail; TOILET TABTif
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP 1
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.'
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, fronTiHT
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, fromBoa’ :
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards’
from 453105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
K
sk
>
K PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves to? cash only,
radiey, Newton, and Lamb.
. ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
1* rooms. New designs covered to order in any
<r aterial.
ROOK l G EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a f pmiality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’C inn il street.
JT) HA WING-ROOM CABINETS-Early English,
t ! A ><r]o-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just (M.pqe't BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connellsts.
DBA* GROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom fur-
NIT CRE. full suites, in SATIN WOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection. „ ,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-St.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 fold) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
n ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
|jT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges, 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, jnEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & Q'Oonnell sts.
%/r ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND;
Itl SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant!,
SOME STANDS, for dubs.
imoking rooms. <&c.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH All*"
Patented,
V/
This chair adjusts itself to any position, v .
fn wnnlininn* onH tWPF. IDO .1.
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the wm
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in ™
construction; works automatically. *ne an
cut represents only two of theuumerous
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but h
Tf ncwfonflv orrorv nftTii Ol Xu.6 oUJ
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the bony,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is supw™
and gives tne occupant entire rest, « ““nHah,
to anything yet invented for the lawn, yeranaajji
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is ««■}*.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— stro
durable, and light, weighing only ten poPffiWLgg
plete, and occupying only four inches in thioaw
when ft ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEW ,
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if rGC I u
2s. 6d. extra. __—--j
TABB® 8
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING ~j- ton
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, No
and Lamb. -jr
bradleJ
c
RON SAFES, various sizes.
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & (FConneu“-
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
OPYING PRESSES, vtxww -, --- fg
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell stree^
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS-NovelW®
in plush and velvets and in all woou-
from 5/6.
Elegant Venetian mirrors,
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newto ,
Lamb. — -.r,
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS,
Shaving Stands. Newt oh
JAP A NES E BLlNDSlextra quality)., <f \ B,
pullers and cords, 6x 8* 6/0 ; Bxo t yi ’
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 12 x 8, 14/6; 12 x 10. 15/6. ,
BR*i>LhY, NKW|OM_na_bA^
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all
275. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, SP
O’Connell streets. ______ __
TjIURNIT U RE-THE L ARGEBT STQC
N COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, «
JD c
Sprini
pring and O’Connell streets.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD. flood and held.
pvrmont Regatta duly eventuated on
(Saturday last. Boreas was anything but rude
snrintr the afternoon, and rowing men were
favoured at the expense of the sailors, who only
managed to finish one race on the card-thatfor
tap 14ft dingles, which fell a victory to the
i nnnB r Victor, the handsome little Hero running
into second place. The Glebe R G representatives,
Messrs. Cox and Maitland, carried away both the
maiden (and junior double sculls in easy style.
Tames Cleeve proved the best quarryman in
waterman’s skiff. The sticker, young Matthews,
showed himself the best youth under 17 in a light
skiff. Young Charley Matterson, with 281 b. handi-
eaD was unable to concede 28lb. to W. B. Power,
who finished first, but the prize was awarded to
Matterson, on the ground that Power had fouled
him. P. Fitzhenry won the resident working
man’s race, and the Vernon race and gig and dingy
race brought the day’s sport to a conclusion.
* * * c '
Says the organ of the Sydney Mercantile
Rowing Ciub, the Evening Nooze:— “Mr. Arthur
Fittea, of Melbourne, having won the Challenge
Sculls last Saturday week, has decided to retire on
hia rank. He claims to be the amateur champion
of Australia, but how he won the title is a little
nuzzling to the rowing men of this colony. He
bases his claim to this title on winning the Krug
Champagne Cup, but this trophy was advertised
as‘open to all amateur scullers,’ and not a word
was ever said about the championship. Mr. Brett
is still open to accommodate the Victorian, and to
give him a chance of earning the title he has
usurped.” The title of champion amateur sculler
of the colonies lies between Messrs. Fittea and
Brett, and as the former defeated our representa-
tive for the Krug Cup, if anyone has a right to be
considered “ champion,” it is certainly Fittes.
That George Brett was something like a stone
below his rowing-weight and more fit to take to
his bed than a boat the day he met Arthur Fittes,
we can assert as a fact, but it is also a fact that
Fittes defeated him, and until Brett reverses the
decision, Fittes is amateur champion, if there is
such a title. Brett will be in Melbourne in April
with the eight-oar crew, and the opportunity
should prove a good one for the rivals to meet
agaln - * * *
The V.R.C. were fortunate both as regards
weather and attendance on the opening day of
their autumn meeting at Flemington. The ball
was set rolling with the Essendon Stakes, for
which event Winchester bad the call at 11 tc 8, but
the 10 to 1 chance, Sandal, proved too much for the
big gun, and the mare won easily with half a
leDgfch to the good of Winchester, who beat Regi-
nald by a length. A quintette put in an appear-
ance for the Ascot Vale Stakes, which proved an
easy victory for Cbesham by a length from Blair-
gowrie; the favourite, Phillip Augustus, running
into a place three lengths away. Matchlock and
First Prince started equal favourites at 7 to 5 for
the St. Leger Stakes. The Prince led iato the
straight running, but approaching the distance
Hales took Matchlock up without an effort, and
passing First Prince won comfortably by a couple
of lengths, Remus three lengths away third.
Thirty sported silk for the Newmarket Handicap,
William Cell and Silvermine being most fancied at
5 to 1 each, Mozart being next in demand at 7 to 1.
William Tell j umped away with the Rad and won
from start to finish, Silvermine four lengths away
second, Rapier a length and a half away third.
The jaw-breaking Munwyrtina won the Hopeful
Stakes irom Don Giovanni, Tuscarora third.
Gipsy’s Warning started first favourite for the
Brunswick Stakes, and finished the day’s sport by
winning the race by a head from St. Odille, Lesbia
a length and a half away third.
* * ■
Though nothing has been definitely-settled
at the time of our writing, in all probability the
gladiators, “Professor” Jackson and Michael
Dooley, will meet in a six-round encounter at
Foley s Hall within a few days. Both heavy,
scientific men, the match should prove the best
Sydney has seen since the celebrated contest be-
tween Miller and Foley. The contest, should it
come off, will altogether occupy 23 minutes—lB
minutes’ fighting and five minutes’ spell, if
Queensberry contests are to be built up in Sydney,
it will be more by the aid of six-round contests
than tights “to a finish.” As a rule, if a man does
not succumb in five or six rounds of glove-fight-
ing, the pair become too weak to knock each other
out, and the contest runs into hours instead of
minutes, and stands a good show of coming to a
termination on the win, tie, or wrangle principle.
Boxing in Sydney has arrived at a state of respec-
tability beyond the most sanguine expectations of
lovers of the noble art, and it is omy contests of
limited extent that can keep it up to the mark.
* * ♦
The light air upset all the sailing fixtures
on 8 turday afternoon last. Tne Prince Alfred
Yacht Club were unable to bring off their third-
class race; and at Botany the champion race was
postponed until a future day.
* it
The Baltnain Rowing Club had a great
send-off on Saturday last, when the Governor and
his lady put in an appearance at the opening cere-
mony. The fact of CariDgton’s presence brought
together a crowd which, under other circum-
stances, would as soon see the Balmain workii g
man give his order to Kirby for a coffin as to Don-
nelly and Sullivan for a string-test. Lady Caring-
ton unfurled the colours, his lordship launched a
skiff, and the club was declared opened. An ad-
journment was then made to the upper regions,
where champagne and the next approach to a
Turkish bath were gone through at one and the
same time.
* * *
The intercolonial eight-oar crew were out
on Saturday last in a clinker, and visited the Bal-
main Rowing Club opening and the Pyrmont Re-
gatta. George Brett is rowing low, and the crew
were going really well together.
* » *
The cup match between the Warwicks
afid Carltons was finished on Saturday, victory
goffig to the Warwicks on their first innings of
167, ss against 128 made by the Carltons. Tne junior
contingent of tne Warwicks proved a valuable
acquisition to the team, and their victory wa ; in
no small degree owing to Ironside and Donnan,
who both bowled remarkably well, the latter clean
bowling Burton, Turner, and C. Bannerman.
* * *
The junior cup match between the Os-
bornes and Eastern suburbs ended in a one in-
nings victory for the former, Toby and Noble
proving too much for the suburbans.
* * *
Says a New Zealand paper“ The totali-
s&tor has driven another good man from the
shores of New Zealand. Mr. James Poole, who for
many years has been known in Auckland as one of
the most substantial members of the bookmaking
camp, is leaving for Sydrey, where he intends to
settle.” The Maori authorities no doubt think of
two evils choose the lesser, so they retain the
totalisator.
» * *
Walter Giffen met with an accident at
Adelaide last week, which wifi put a period to ITS
cricketing for some time to come. His left hand
was caught in some cog-wheels at theßrompton
Gas Works, and the tips of two fingers were nipped
off.
* * *
The Gymnasium, George-street, Sydney,
was, on Saturday evening, the rendezvous ot IJie
crowd who admire the manly game of knuckles.
The piece de resistance was the turn-up between
Dooley and the champion amateur, though the spar
between Lawson and Burgess proved to be the
fight of the evening, their four rounds being so
merry that the referee, Ted Ellis, bad to order an
extra three minutes before he could pick the win-
ner. Burgess fought a very plucky fight, and
with a little more science be could make a good
fight with “ little Jim " Fuller and Smith opened
the ball, and in a fairly-fought battle the former
had decidedly the best of it. Fuller is improving
greatly in the use of his left hand, and will come
out the right end of the horn directly. Mackay
and Selby fought a rather humorous fight, in
which the game seemed to be pretty considerably
burlesqued, neither man appearing to know
exactly what to do with the other at the oppor-
tune moment. We observed several opportuni-
ties in which Mackay could have scored, and
noticed various instances where Selby might have
nominated Mackay as a suitable candidate for the
cemetery, but these chances were not availed of,
and the men were called off. Lawson ai d Bur-
gess fought a very even fight, in which the darkey
nad but little the best of it. White and the un-
assailable Laurence had a merry turn up, in which
Foley, as usual, had slightly the worst of it. Then
Dooley and the champion amateur stepped into the
riDg and fought a nice friendly little spar, in
which neither evidenced any great anxiety to
damage the other’s frontispiece. In fact, it was
tolerably apparent that each man was holding a
bit in reserve, and did not feel diSDOsed to show
the full strength of his hand.
» m *
The Kyneton (Vie.) Observer said the
ot her day that the local residents could do without
the Melbourne people at the looal races—they
didn’t want any Joe Thompson present who would
rob them. Joseph s little libel writ is just now an
object of much perturbation to the Observer
proprietor.
* * *
The Sydney Water Police Magistrate gave
his decision on Tuesday in the Millie (s.) and the
sailing-boat Mallard collision case, wherein the
owner of the Mallard charged the captain of the
Millie with running into him in Sydney har-
bour. The result of the case has caused much
j >y amoDgststeamer captains of sportive tenden-
cies, since they now find it is competent for them
to run down as many sailing-boats s they please
at a shilling a pop. This, it seems to us, is very
reasonable. Hold on till the Watson’s Bay boat
nears our landlord again, ss it did last Sunday.
There will be no fear then of his coming round on
Monday morning with a bag of gold and badgering
us for twelve-and-sixpence. ’
* * *
The result of the English Waterloo Cup
again proves the sound policy of depending upon
publicly-tried performers for couraiDg events.
Miss Giendyne, the winner, divided the b g stake
last year with Bit of Fashion. Honeymoon, it we
remember rightly, accomplished a simiiar leat,
while Coomassie won outrignttwo years in succes-
sion, and the great Master M‘Grath was successful
in three attempts out of four.
* * *
No very startling play was shown in the
recent billiard match between Joe Byrres and
Harry Power, for £lOO aside and the “ champ on-
ship ” of Victoria. Byrnes was credited with the
biggest break of the evening (.62), but Power ulti-
mately won by 77 points, after more than four
hours’ play. This is poor ’’champion” form,
indeed, for professionals, and we fancy there is
more than one amateur in Victoria who could
take down either man’s number if he felt so dis-
posed. Byrnes and Power are matched again for
£2OO aside.
A BUSHMAN SPEAKS
General Gordon, bitterly reproaching the supine
and vacillating Government of Great BritaiD,
said—” You people in England who fare on the
best and sleep in comfortable beds, forget to realise
the hunger, privations, and dangers which beset us
here at Khartoum ” This is a very common
phase of selfishness. Seated beside a cheerful fire
we are apt to ignore the sufferings of those
abroad and exposed to the bitter cold. Enjoying
our well served dinner, we bestow but little
thought upon the cravings of the destitute and
starving. We cuddle our personalities too much,
and hug our comforts the more, as they contrast
with the miseries of those of our fellow creaturts
who Lck them. The storm may roar and batsle
without: so much the snugger are we within. We
do not trouble our eomeieaets with the reflection
that, abroad on the ocean, sailors, wet and cold,
and in dire peril are fighting the eli meots. We
heed not that in tne weird bush the shiveriug
drover watches his cattle through the long nights.
Cold and dienched with rain, or haply parched by
thirst, he must be on the alert always. Hard
work and hard fare are his lot. No cosy arm chair
or warm fire, or merry chat, or toothsome supper
for him! His place in the distribution of Fate, is
one in which tne factor of comfort or ease enters
not. All the more admirable thenar a the patience
and fortitude with which he laces the position.
Heroes there are in plenty, whose names shaii
never mark the page of history; and if cheerful
courage, stern endurance, and unconquerable
energy be elements of the heroic, then the busti-
man class in Australia may boasr of Lumterless
representatives. Men whose lives are pas.ea
under conditions of hard work and exposure to
every tx.reme of heat and cold, hunger and thirst,
must necessarily run exceptional risks of disease.
Mr. Thomas Harvey, ot Narancera, N.S.W., a
drover, who testifies to the unrivalled virtues of
Warner's bafe cure, mentions rheumatism, ague,
fever and dysentry, &c , as a few of the many ail-
ments to which oroveis and “overlanders” are
subject. He has suffered from those complaints
very severely, Dut especially from au attack ol
inflammation of the kidnej s. F< r twelve months
he had fought this teniole trouble, but ah to no
purpose, until be fortunately began the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure, when ms recovery was rapid
and complete. Grateful for his recovery, Mr.
Harvey can but emphasise on others, similarly
situated as himself, the importai ce of havmg
always at hand time which conquers pain, brings
reirtshing sleep, and relieves tne harassed mind
from dismal forebodings of the future.
A correspondent writes:—lf the people knew
the value of Wolfe’s Schnapps they would drink
nothing else.
A lady correspondent writes to say “It
is gratifying to notice iu these times of competi-
tion we have young men enterprising enough to
enter into a large business, notwithstanding old
established firms, I refer toJoncs, Lawson Bn s ,
ana Co., who have opened a iarge Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse, in Castlertagh-street. From
all appearances it promises to become an extensive
concern, and leading factor m this city. I notice,
also, a very important future has been well con-
sidered and carried out in the erection of their
premises, the show Boon s being spacious and
weii lighted. This is what few of uur established
firms can boast of. The display of Carpets and
Curtains showing in their window is positively
enarmtng.*
GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
riIHE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worjhip the Mayor
A Municipal Council of Syd ey, the A.J.C., City Club, >.c., &c.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Select your
own steak,&c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions or the city, and a long.
f elt want. Inspection invited. D. YOU, Manager.
Gi-rea/t «A.ttractl©:n-!
G-rea/t
G-reat
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
Practical Cabinet Makers and Upholsterers,
39 GASTLER. EAGH-S TREE!,
Near Hunter-street.
The large and spacious warehouse is close to the Hunter-street Tram-station.
THE SHOW-ECUMS ARE lARGE AHD WELL LIGHTED.
THE STOCK COMPRISES
Cabinet and Upholstered Furniture,
Bedsteads and Bedding,
Brussels’ Carpets, Wilton Carpets,
Tipsitry Carpels, Linoleums,
Floireloths, Curtains,
and Table Covers.
111
kta In IMsl is Plain Elm
AT
LOWEST CASH PRICES.
VISIT
THE NEW FURNITURE and CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 GASTLEHEAGH-STREET,
(Hear Hunter-street).
ON THE
3Brlc3s:£Leld. ZE3ZIII
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/(?
Cl
o.
W 1
%
r*i
<0
I
Nursing end Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Oolour, and Quality
(SINGLE., DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4alid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND RONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.it.— Orders from thi Country will receive immediate wort careful attention.


Political
Points
Ho wonder that legal luminary is wild!
Though he might be going circuit and bringing
off every persecuted Milesian in his district, he is
reduced to tde necessity of sitting on a log in the
Burro wa electorate, and rehearsing his election
speeches before a goat.
The N.Z. Herald says in an editorial:—
“ If America has any pity or goodwill for Ireland,
it is because she inherited from our English an-
cestry that love of fair play which England herself
seems to have outgrown.” This is exactly what
dispassionate Australians say, too.
From a blundering attack on Sir Henry
Parkes in the Sydney Evening News “ Pre-
cedents are the first resource of minds wanting in
originality.” There is an epigrammatic force about
this statement which proves it to be the convincing
result of long personal experience.
WHAT, INDEED?
You work with men you have impeached!
Oh, after all this fuss.
Well Gar van, may'we ask, in tears,
What are you Garvan us ?
The Sydney Echo makes merry over Mr. W.
J. Foster’s “toe and heel” accompaniment to his
speeches. So do we. But why doesn’t it call
attention to the Jay nil's “ walk and thump ” style
of oratory ? To watch Danie 1 walking from one
end of the table to the other and stopping every
now and then to thump the mahogany with his
fight during a two hours’ “hurricane,” is worth
millions.
IMMINENT.
You’re rather long about it, you,
Loo Heydon, and you Slattery I
Set down this hesitation to
A little paper flattery.
But do not change your minds, we pray,
The rags don t mean a word they say.
Mr, Nimmo, the new Yictorian Minister of
Public Works, said in one of his election speeches
the other night that “he wa3 in favour of free-
trade between the colonies, providing they would
first adopt the Yictorian tariff.” The sweet man I
Mis idea is for Victoria to work upon what might
be called the principle of share-and-share-alike—
as long as you let me do the sharing. He is a broad
humorist.
As a rule, Sir Patrick J ennings is a liberal
encourager of the St. Oecilian art, hut some of
ourlprincipal hurdy-gurdy grinders declare to-day
that there are other and more desirable ways of
amassing wealth than by perching in front of the
n ew Premier’s door and blasting out the significant
air, “Then you’ll re-member me.” Rumour says
the O’Kelly is on the war-whoop once again, and
Sir Patsy’s chance of a wa'k-over is very slim
indeed.
&“ Hush! hold that noise!” cried a Minister
elect (he thought so), tapping at the door of the
Ministerial room et the Sydney Reform Club, after
many vain attempts to turn.the handle; why,
they can hear this stamping and shouting down in
the street.” “ Oh, come in,” cried the member for
the Portals, laughing and spitting out a tooth;
“we are just sinking our little personal differ-
ences ’ before uniting for the ‘ good of our blessed
country.’ Come in.”
The Kiama Reporter is in a despondent
state over the political prospects of New South
Wales, it observes that if things do not mend,
“sooner or later we must find the bonds of society
loosened, at d the result can only be anarchy, from
which we may find our only escape in despotism.
As it may ba impossible 10 mend things, we are
glad that we shall only have to face anarcny
“sooner or later.” We’ll make it later.
“Tut, tut, I, aw, can’t have that fellow in
the Ministry. He used to be my confounded
plumber.” This phrase, uttered by someone at
the Reform Club on Tuesday night, originated the
par in the Sydney D.T., commencing-" Owing to
unanticipated difficulties having arisen. Sir Patrick
Jennings will not buii a position to, &o. ( It 8 a
bit galling in the seauel, isn t it? -Me and
Jennings will see to it 1” Whoop!
From England we learn that Mr. Childers
wedged the following into a speechßemember
how. even in the last military proceedings in Egypt
and the Soudan, our colonies came to the front In
offers to render us assistance. I doubt whether
that would have been the ease 40 years ago. So
do we-considering that 40 years ago the popula-
tion of all leg-ironed Australia numbered about
150,000, and that one-half of those had enough to
do to watch the other.
Little Mirams, of Collingwood (Vie.), is a
Liberal. So are Tucker and Reid, of Filzroy. Yet,
in one of his election speeches the other night, the
former said he “ was opposed to Bunday amuse-
ments, Sunday trading, and Sunday trains, and
the two latter expressed themselves very simi-
larly. If Libera's of this description could have
all their own way, those members of the com-
munity who refused to spend their Sundays in
psalm-singing and sombre hypocrisy would have
the stocks and the pillory reserved for their
benefit. .
Here are two news items published in a
sipgle month“ The Queen has sent a donation
of£lo to the secretary of the Temporary Home for
Lost and Starving Dogs at Battersea. The
Queen has sent a donati >n of £5OO to the secretary
of the Euna for the Relief of toe Unemployed.
Thus we observe that Her Maj. sty rates a starving
man as high as 50 dogs-ooly tue e are five times
as many starving men as starving dogs in England.
Hence we calculate that Her Majesty rock ns one
starving dog to be worthygof as much relief as ten
starving men. At least, that seems the ratio of
hf»r for each class of sufferer per
head. Her Majesty was always fond of dumb
animals.
There is grim humour in this. The Vic-
torian Temperance Party nearly exhausted itself
to the last kick in a mad tight with the Licensed
Victuallers to get the Licensing Act passed. It
triumphed. One of the clauses it cherished most
was that affirming Local Option. Last week the
first petition under this clause was Presented to
the Government. It came from a district that
wanted another hotel! The Licensing Act pro-
vides that there shall be one licensed house for
every 250 of the first 1000 inhabitants. There is
pn?y y one public-house in Maddingley (the place
from which the petition comes), and there are
over 500 inhabitants. So that the first use made of
the hard-fought-for Local Option clause has been
to ask for more tanglefoot I It is the very gall and
wormwood of sarcasm.
The Victorian Working Men’s Political
Reform Association has a definite programme, of
which the heads are 1. Maintenance of the
S resent Education Act in its integrity; 2.
ationalisation of land; 3 National Bank of Issue
based on system of flat money; 4. Electoral re-
form, inclusive of single electorates—abolition of
plural voting—extension of polling hours—forfei-
ture of members’ seats upon breach of election
pledges; 5. (scheme of national irrigation; 6 Fed-
eration of Australasian colonies; 7. Strict State
neutrality on matters of religious conviction, in-
cluding Oaths Abolition Bill—Purely secular in-
struction in Srate schools; 8 Local election of
colonial governor; 9 Legalisation of the eight-
hours system »f labour; 10. Opening of the Public
Library and Museum on Sundays; 11 Financial
reform; 12. N<o State aided immigration; 13. Auti-
Chinese legislation. The N.S. W working men
have no association and no programmes, and con-
sequently are like a kingdom divided against
itself. Their influence is coniitied to helping on the
election of a few indiyidual members of Parliament,
no two of whom agree about anything.
Those who read Sir Patrick Jennings’
speech in the N.S.W. Assembly on Thursday night,
must have certainly beeu impressed with one fact
—that the House all but crawled to the hon.
member. But it always hasl However be does
it, Sir Patrick has acquired the art of over-hearing
hon. members to perfection. He does not need to
speak to do so either. A puff, a hoisting up of a chin
or two, a stony glance, and it is done. The result
is a happy one to himself. He may stand up and
make the most self-sufficient and intolerable
speech ever heard, but throughout the delivery of
the string of dreary periods he is never subject to
Interruption. Indeed, singular to say, he is in-
variably greeted “ with signs of approbation ”
from all parts of the House, notwithstanding that
scores of members thirst at intervals with a desire
to open up the hon. gentleman with a blunt in-
strument. If divinity does hedge a king, cer-
tainly something of the kind is associated with the
hon. member for the Bogan. We cannot account
for it, unless, indeed, the reason of this koloo-ing
be discovered in the circumstance that Sir Patrick
is a Papal Knight of St. Gregory’s Powders.
Listen to Sir Patrick:—“l am not going
to briDg the name of the Governor into this
debase more than is necessary. Wflat I informed
His Excellency I do not feel at liberty to intro-
duce except under extreme circumstances.”
Really, this kind of talk impresses us as being
“ holiower ” than poetry. Why, we ask, should
the hon. gentleman “bring the name of the
Governor into this debate more than is necessary ?
No one has accused the nobis Knight of any such
absurd intention; so whence this ridiculous dis-
claimer ? Then the Pride of the Bogan informs
the House (not a soul dreamt of asking him) that
he would not "introduce” something he told His
Excellency “except under extreme circum-
stances.’’ There was no possible reason why the
hon, member should not have let the House know
everytoing that passed between the»Governor and
himself, but Sir Patrick was not to be denied the
smug pleasure of mentioning bis conference with
Lord Carlngton, which, very likely, coDjured up
an emaciated cheer from one or two crawlers,
anxious to catch the eye (no easy matter, by-the-
way) of the Knightly orator.
Mr. Howard Spensley, M.P. for Finsbury
formerly Victorian Attorney-General —in the
Duffy Administration), has, it is cabled, given
notice of his intention to introduce mto the Com-
mons a Payment of Members’ Bill. Payment of
British members—at the hands of their consti-
tuents direct—already prevails to a not inconsider-
able extent. Such of the Parnellites as have in-
sufficient means for subsistence are supported out
of the Nationalist funds: and a good many English
members, nominees of the working classes, are
maintained by subscription among the electors.
With the spread of education has arrived a time
when the rich are deprived of their former mono-
poly of intelligence and their long-exercised pri-
vilege of making laws for the great body of the
people. The British democracy, whioh recognises
the right of the electors to pay their members il
they choose, will soon come to see that what is
now done by individuals should be done by the
State, and that the present system of representa-
tion under which the House of Commons is, In
many respects, an aristocratic club, and, in most
cases utterly inacessible, save to men of means
should he modified by means similar to those
adopted in a majority of theunodern democracies
A correspondent writing to on© of the
Melbourne papers puts the question of irrigation
in a new and somewhat surprising light. He says,
in effect, that the fertile three-fourths of the
colony are not likely to submit to be taxed to
make the other and arid fourth blossom like the
w>se. Also, that tae present Premier—Duncan
Gillies-would not be so enchanted with the irriga-
tion schemes of Mr. Deakin only that he (the Pre-
mier) happens to be “member for the dry area
known as Rodney.” Further, that if this species
of taxation of the many for the good of the few
meets wish the approval of Parliament It should
be adopted all round, and then “ the selectors of
Gippsland will have their scrub cleared at the
pubhc cost, the dwellers on poor land their soil
manured ditto, the ‘topers’ their liquor without
duty ditto, the ‘teetotallers’ their bohea and
mocha ditto’’-and so on. There is more in this
than meets the eye. But the correspondent gives
himself away in his concluding sentence. He says
that if these things come to pass he will not object
as he “will necessarily join some of the coteries
to be blessed so hugely and cheaply.” It does net
require a ghost from the other world to guess
what one he will join. It will not, we are free,to
bet, be the one that yearns for untaxed bohea and
mocha. He evidently sees no ‘further use for
water than to mix it with something stronger.
The people of Victoria, for a business com-
munity, do not manage to get very much work
out of their Governor in exchange for £lO,OOO a
year and the free use of the gigantic pile of bricks
and mortar on the hanks of the Yarra, which is
called Government House. Sir Henry Loch, since
he came to represent his Sovereign in Victoria,
has not lost his health through bard work. We
should like to have a tenth part of what he has
drawn for signing his name, for, besides affixing
his autograph to the hills of last session, which
was as heavy a piece of business for the spectators
as for himself, we don’t know that he has done
anything. Does it not, therefore, seem a little too
much of the monkey when there is really an im-
portant piece of work to do, that half-a-dozen
Ministers must take a train journey and visit him
at his mountain home, at Mount MacedoD, in order
to have the work executed ? They certainly went
out of town on a Saturday, which is a half-
holiday in the Government service, and Sir Henry
may have protested against attending at his office
in the Treasury building, Melbourne, in the after-
noon, while other public servants were enjoying
the sea breezes. Still, we think, Sir Henry might
h*ve stretched a point on an important occasion
when three Ministers of the Crown required to he
sworn in, and not have given the said Ministers
and their colleagues a chanoe of making flunkeys
of themselves, by taking a six-hour journey in
order to save His (well paid) Excellency from put-
ting on bis boo s.
Mr. Graham Berry unbent himself the
other night, and gave an address to the Melbourne
Debating Society. The address was of the “ keep ■
your-eye-on-your-faffier ” order. If the young
men there assembled would only put their bluchers
in the exact footprints be hail made upon ttao
sands of time and follow each other in Indian file
they might one day become even as great as he
was. The eloquent orator, however, had no right
to say that there was “no doubt the Victoria r
boundary ought to be the Murrumbidgee.” The
fierce and fiery spirit that carried the N.S.W. Con-
tingent through herds of goats and aEses is not yet
dead. It is not even sleeping. The Government
has as much; as it can do to hold Dallty’s dare-
devils in leash. It was only a few nights ago that
a band of them made a desperate raid on
a Chinaman’s garden on the Botany-road, and
eturned triumphant with spjil of on cumbers and
turks’ heads, not to mention radishes. And one
day last week one of the wickedest and most reck-
lessly daring of them, with a wild courage peculiar
to him, stopped a little girl in the street and drank
off at one gulp the quart of beer she was carrying
home for her father’s dinner, and then swaggered
away, humming* an Arab air. So that it is 111
statesmanship to endeavour to stir up a feeling ox
animosity between the two countries in this
fashion. If our veterans were let loose upon v ic-
toria the inhabitants would know the fact to their
bitter cost. There would not be a pound of corned
beef or a pint of beer to be had in the whole
colony a month after the Contingent crossed the
Murray.
The once- celebrated C. E. Jones, of
“ lamb and mint sauce ” and “ Bungaree Savages
celebrity, is once again a candidate tor the Vic-
torian Parliament and got an enthusiastic recep-
tion from 4000 Ballarat electors the other night.
At the last general election he tied Fincham tor
the third sear, and the returning officer gave a
vote that seated Fincham. When the numbers go
up this time it is thought Jones will head the poll.
Jones’ star (ere he was expelled the Victorian
Parliament for alleged bribery) was once high
above the political horizon, and when he sat in the
Legislature he made things pretty lively. Those
were the days of George Higinbotham, K 1).
Ireland. G. P Smith, B. C. Aspinall, and Fellows,
and C. E. Jones’ Attic wit always shone out con-
spicuously even amongst such talent. We re
collect when C. E. was at dangora-drawn with g'
P. Smith, and the latter ran away from Supple
of the Akqus, whom he had injured. Supple in
order to be avenged on Barrister Smith, waited
for him in a Melbourne thoroughfare with a
loaded pistol, and Smith escaped, but a publican
named Walshe received the shot instead, and was
fatally iojured. After this event someone in the
House accused G. P. Smith of cowardice. C. E
Jones determined to get a thrust into Smith’s
ribs, and arose to defend his adversary in this
fashion:—“ It had pained him to hear the hon
member (Mr. G. P Smith) accused of cowardice’
That charge must be without foundation. Every
human being brought some share of courage with
him into this world, and no person had ever heard
of the hon. member for South Bourke using un
any portion of the original endowment. He must
therefore, have a great hoard of courage Rome
place.” The Bpeaker ca'led “ order, order,” and »
the truculent Jones passed to a new phase of the
question.
No sooner had the gifted but very uncer-
tain Heydon decided to retire from political life
than aspirants in dozens cime forward for the
vacant seat. Th 9 verbose, 11 jrid, and frothy
Colonha-Close was first in the field, and next to
him J P. T- Caulfield, the Victorian word-piler
who imbibed Liberalism with his juvenile sop, and
began orating even while his first long u-ousers
bore evidence of the tribute his knees had paid to
“big ring.” He comes forward with a platform
which pretty well “ kivers the whole ground,” and
includes everything, from the abolition of the
Upper House to “ the better protection of women
and children.” Whether this latter plant is only
a quaint device for the introduction of something
new in the way of corset ads., we are unable at
present to say; but anyhow, his programme
is an extensive one. The man who could
desire more reforms than the boy-politi-
cian is prepared to go bald-headed for
is a revolutionary glutton whose existence is
a menace to the entire constitution. These two
candidates alone should he able bei ween them to
supply enough hustings oratory to satisfy Yass
P aims for the remainder of tne present century.
B. R. Wise, the freetrader, has also announced his
desire to accept a permanent retainer from Yass
Plains, and has already drawn first blood in the
contest. Besides these the loquacious and egotisti-
cal W. P. Crick is in the vicinity, and Garden
Honey has, we hear, invested in a new pair of
bluchers, with the intention of starting to canvass
the district. But we have a strong idea that any-
one who wishes to sit for Fass Plains will have to
contest the electorate with the present member at
next general election. Prom the eccentricity of
Mr. Heydon’s political character,we are inclined to
accept the announcement of his intended resig-
nation as an earnest of his continuance in his pre-
seat position. At Yass they read the fervid ad-
dresses of coming patriots with an expansive
smile, and softly remark, “ These ’ere chaps don’t
know Loo 'eydun, as we does.”
THE LONDON BREAD-RIOTS,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mean-souled rich, who know no care,
Whom hunger's pangs can never scare,
No sympathy e’er show to those,
Who only claim what mankind owes
To man; their cry is “ Do they dare,
Because we're full, while they go hare,
Our hard-earned savings seek to share
Thus Midas speaks, the utt’rance shows
The mean-souled rich.
Midas, take care! smug man, beware I
Dong sufferers roused, few, few will spare;
Vainly your ears, your doors, you’ll close
When Demos "knocks with giant blows,
o h, small-brained rich!
SIB TOBY.
“ Mr. Speaker Barton is the man they all
want if he would only come out of his shell.
Globe. Whereupon a malicious bard:—
“ Come out of your shell”?
You would be a fool,
When it suits passing well
O’er all ’em to rule I
Now, young ’uti, look here,
'Twas your luekv star
That put you right there,
So stay where you are I
“ Barton I" they yell—
“Ah, he is the one!”
We up and say—“ Well,
Now what’s Barton done ?
When Toby’s in Court,
His expression is mild;
And, to out the tale short,
At the Law’s he's a child ;—
A favourite child
They let babble and crow,
But when p'aintiif 3 get wild,
This won’t do, you know 1
To get Toby fee-d
Gives a prestige that knocks!
But when “ they’re agreed ”
“ Without leaving the box—”
When they “ don’t want to hear”
The Bartonian talk,
And a cool seven-year
Up his Honor does chalk.
Why, we think we can bet
That with this you’ll agree,
As a Court advooate
Toby don’t seem to “gee!”
So, young ’un, look here,
’Twas your lucky star
Put you right ua there—
So stay where you are!
Look here, now! Those tiresome house-
holders »re actually a-saying that we are asses to
spand £80,000 on additional water supply, and then
be unable to deliver it. Blow itl they have an
ample supply within seven miles of town now, and
it was 37 miles before. What more can they want?
Morewat9rI Tut I tut I
Call for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no other.
m
&
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THB
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
OTJS
STSTEIi.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medioine, by
DR. J. HAYCOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the dyct
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. 1 he new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
8. Depression of spirits and great melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
Ail of the above symptoms go to chow functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
great importance of anv error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill.
Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of theLiver, and canbe almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life as many of yoh now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. I do not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Or. Haddock’s Mow Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure,
will satisfy the most sceptical.
One Pill
L ociLloiy LI1I3 U1UBI Bucpuivwi. ... _
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Eaoh vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated If your druggist doesi not keep,them, we will mail them free to any ad-
dress on receipt ol 35 cents. Five vials for $1.00. BUY AT ONCE. DO NUi UBtAi.
©S OB rBvDipi v* wo vwlibOt 1 1VO V I«1D av/a .
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J.H. Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
Jilii XOX UlO U UllcU PialMiUO) ID w iiiiiou vu r
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 313 ktods now in the market, any scep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
cr>
<s
on
JOO
U Nisi UR FLAVOUR B.ua unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Am©"
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Belicious wltn
milk, superb with wine, and incomparioie
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Strmt,LBtdkb7<


(ilticura
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Scrofula on Neck*.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured b.y
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-tjra Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thuß removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Kennedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
RLJS€S e
DESTROYS
ALL N OXIOUS I
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES.VrSA? AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLES3TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER^
fs
3 • -
tţ
TON'GRIMWADE'&C 0
Wanted in Eve ry House
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
AMHOOO RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known rested)
* nnS» UREofNERVOUSEXHAUi
>N, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., haa at
daoovered a simple SELF-CURE, whioh, lee
~ te of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
ftegonption which CURED him. , Address*
■eU-addressed stamped envelope— 3
•r. E. A. CI.AM.iBiE, F.O. Box 9N, Sydney.
HAS
CfTUDT ECONOMY
O and
Haveyour Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
_ equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
Liverpool
Parasols made to match oo*
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
infftfp
YANKEE DOODLE
Dooo/f
SOH 5
SON
CONQUEROR
TWIST & PLUG
Co Squ e toR
DIXSOM & SONS, Sydney,
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
_ , Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaoeos.
F
OR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, an sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING 3, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,8,5, Union-lane. Telephone No, 66.
'r\ 'T~Met3sten
CTy>
•> '
ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Btook
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
[ Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
! Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoioes, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, hi parcels,
i El upward. Liberal discount allowed.
I Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stook,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
m GEORGE STREET.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford- st., London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Sulpholine
Lotion.
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES.
IN A'FEW DATS J1RUPTIONS, PIMPLES,
BLOTCHES, ENTIRELY FADE AWAY.
BEAUTIFULLY FRAGRANT. PERFECTLY
HARMLESS. CURES OLD STANDING SKIN
DI8EA8ES.
REMOVES EVERY KIND OF ERUPTION. SPOT,
OR BLEMISH, AND KENDEKS THE 8KIN
CLEAR, SMOOTH, SUPPLE, and HEALTHY.
Bottles, 2s. 9d, Sold everywhere. Made by J
PEPPER & CO.
PEPPER’S
QUININE AND IRON
HEALTH, STRENGTH,
ENERGY,
TflMlf*
I UNIUI
Great Bodily Strength, Great Nerve Strength
Great Mental Strength, Great Digestive
Strength,
Follows the us© of PEPPER’S QUININE AND
IRON TONIC.
Bottles, 16 doses; larger bottles, 82 doses.
Sold everywhere.
PFPPFR’C
■EI ■ bit V
THB SAFEST
ANTIBILIOUS
TARAXACUM *“
PODOPHYLUN.
A FLUID LIVER MEDICINE, without Mercury,
ttBoles, 12 doses. Sold everywhere.
-^Tora,la.a,ixi’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
imm ediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUYELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starehed linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. 1 Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Soil, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Liinen O-loss
ALL THE MOST
Mutfern and Elegant
RESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
2? STREET,
SYDNEY,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED PQR CITY OR COUNTRY USE
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
bam mm.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
lar EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


THE GAY GOHANNA.
A CONTRIBUTION TO HIS UNNATURAL
HISTORY.
Who hath beheld the Australian G ohann a
In his haunts ? Who bath seen him in his secret
fastnesses, and watched his coming and going, and
his general methods of business ? Behold, we have
found the manl He dwells la gum-gloomed Gipps-
land, by the margin of Lake Tyers, and when he is
not chopping wood, writes bush articles for the
ftalrnsdale Advertiser. He seems to be a happy
contented sort of fellow, too, for he begins the
article from which we are about to quote with the
words:—“Persons who live in towns and are
accustomed to see numbers of persons every day,
may think that residence in these back-blocks is
dull life. But it is not so.” Then he goes on to
describe the amusement to be obtained from
watohing the habits of birds. He strongly reminds
Us in this of Mark Twain’s story of Jim Baker and
his joys. Jim Baker was a true, though a rude,
naturalist—a much truer one than those so-called
who go rampaging around the world with guns in
their bands, shooting everything that runs, or
creeps, or flies, in order to stuff them for a museum
•-truer, because he loved them too well to harm
them. Such another is our friend at Lake Tyers.
We commend the following observations on the
sagacity of the gohanna to the attention of
naturalists.
* * *
“I have,” he begins, “been much in-
terested in watohing the habits of iguanas he
uses the dictionary spelling here—which we scorn
—in order, we presume, not to offend the delicate
taste of the purists of Bairnsdale, out gohanna is the
pronunciation ali over the bush, and gohanna we
shall continue to write, if all the lexicographers in
the world should go mad over it. " Many persons
call them hideous, ugly-looking things, but they
do good service in the bush bv killing snakes and
Other noxious vermin. Sometimes a lot of them
come round my place; I am glad to see them, for
they act as scavengers and eat up all the refuse.
They are very fond of bones, and I have seen them
many a time trying to swallow the back-bone and
ribs of a flsh that they could hardly get into their
mouth. They would knock it on the ground,
hammer it against the hut, and by some means get
it into their throat. Then would come the tug of
war - how to swallow it. They would rear up on
their hind legs against the nut and rub their
chests against the bark until they gradually got
the bone swallowed, and were soon on a sharp
look-out for more.”
* * *
Evidently the Gohanna must be admitted
into the ranks of the animals of higher intellect
after this. Your snake is an imbecile compared to
him, for your snake takes days to swallow any-
thing too big for his throat, and lies for days
afterwards in a state of bloated torpor. We refer
now to your snakes of the larger size. Your
frohanna, however, has, ages ago, mastered his
esson in mechanics. Our naturalist now gives an
Interesting instance of this.
* * *
“ One day I threw out a ham-bone, in which
they quickly took great interest, but it was too
big for them, they could not swallow it. At last
an enterprising young fellow got the knuckle end
in his mouth and by dint of hammering on the
ground it went down so far and stuck, refused to
go further. Nothing daunted, this genius (for
undoubtedly he was one) studied how to get that
bone further; before him lay a large log, and
whether he had heard of battering rams
or not I can’t say, but the log seemed
to suggest to him the idea of ene, for
he carefully straightened the bone in his
mouth and made a rush at the log, but no use, the
bone canted over to one side aud would not go
down. Try again, says ho, so drawing back for a
food run, and fixing the bone square in his mouth,
e made another rush full butt at the log; all in
vain, the bone was too large, so he put it down in
despair. Another one, much larger than his com-
panion, who must have been watching his unsuc-
cessful efforts, now took the matter in hand, or,
rather, mouth. He got the bone well set in his
Jaws, and, without losing time or wasting strength
made a straight run at the log, but he missed his
aim and only knocked the bone to one side. One
failure would not make him give in, so after con-
siderable settling of the bone in his mouth he
made a tremendous rush at the log, and by fair
engineering skill sent the bone down his throat,
to ais evident satisfaction.”
* * *
What do you think of that, Messieurg the
Museum Naturalists? Our friend does not say
Whether gohannas are ever subject to indigestion,
but after the publicity we have given his observa-
tions we shall expect to hear of an irruption of
liver-pill and laxative-mixture agents in Gipps-
land before long. He concludes by saying that he
considers gohannas ought to be protected by law.
So they should if they are all as sagacious as those
on Lake Tyers. In fact, not only that, but we
think they ought to be placed in the position to
make law. We would gladly welcome a Govern-
ment Ministry of Gohannas in N B.W. just now-
even if the Premier had to be a Paddymelon.
A las! for Valentine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The practice of sending Valentines ap-
pears to be dying out in-Melbourne. This year the
number that passed through the post-oflice was
less by half than that of last year.” We clip the
disgusting par. from a newspaper and drop sor-
rowful tears into the paste-pot. Think, dear
readers, of the Melbourne girls rising at 6 in the
morning to watch for the postman, and being
rewarded for their patience with nothing but an
ugly one.” Their poor little hearts must be well
broken. Wethinks—new word—we hear the
plaintive song of
THE MELBOURNE MAID TO CUPID.
Fp® of Romance it is over,
The spirit of chivalry’s fled,
all breast °f the latter-day lover
All sentiment seems to be dead;
a Q “ easure Sir l8 ’ charms by their purses
And- how has this change come about?
A ltf i rs ’ Pretty bon-bons, and verses
And Valentines—all are “gone out.”
Time was when young Romeo panted
lhe maid of his fancy to toast;
He deemed her a fairy enchanted,
And sent her nice presents by post;
But now his best girl is a “filly,”
Romantic old customs he’ll flout,
And (excuse us for weeping, ’tis silly)
Even Valentine's Day is “gone out.”
Alas I for the lovers departed,
Who ever were anxious to please,
Were courteous, kind, and soft-hearted,
And often went down on their knees:
Wrote odes to their mistress’s eyebrow,
In language high-flown and devout—
We can’t but admit, with a sigh, now,
That fellows like them.have died out.
Girls read of the "seul-stirring whisper”;
Such whispers we now never hear,
For the words of the modern limp lisper
Discordantly fall on the ear;
We’re told of the fond, furtive glances
Awaked by our grandmother’s pout—
Men's manners at theatres and dances
Are altered—Romance is “gone out.”
They stick their red hands in their pockets
And eye us with scornful contempt,
Nor beg locks of hair for their lockets,
Like lovers of whom we have dreamt;
For jewels and trinkets in caskets
In vain do we artfully tout—
Even scent-bottles, fixed up in baskets,
On Valentine’s Day, are “gone out.”
Dear Cupid, sweet offspring of Venus I
We need all thy amorous aid;
There is sympathy ever between us—
Thou rulest each thought of a maid;
leach men, yet again, the grande passion:
Renew, now, dead Sentiment s birth:
Bring Valentines once more in fashion
And reign, as of yore, upon earth.
Wol]
cine, i
organ.
V* Schnapps ia an unequalled brain medi-
mparting healthful vigour to that sensitive
is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, 8eltzer, Soda Watec Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
•nd Llthla Water (for Gfbut), of Dalm and Oertel,
.JSrated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
Btreet. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
J, TURN EH ROBINSON & CO.’S
tailoring establishment,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-strseft,
_ Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
___ STOCK OF
WOOLLEN'S
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENT® to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM. Our
complete knowledge of the markets of this city
enables us to extend to country buyers benefits
which they would not otherwise obtain. Write
for what you require and we will suit you.
Note the address
JOHN T. M'iNNE!* & CO.,
general agents,
90 Pitt-street, Sydney.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FAOIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
eouusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 80s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
ISWa
It* . /. -Jill
| VALUABLE TRUTHS.
" If you are suffering 1 from poor health
or languishing on a bed of sickness,
take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
weak and dispirited, without clearly
knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
‘‘ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
labourer weakened by the strain of
‘your every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
pation, or are young and growing too
fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
"If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
" HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, .and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE "PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THElToilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
YY.
am
Tn [«■**• K
‘Our.Cupids Manufacturing Bi .ooh of Peaches
“ Dear Sir,—l cor isider your ‘mi ike-up' perfect,
and should never think of anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yt iurs truly,
L’d. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentler ien have also
written, speaking in the highest tc'rms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Loui se Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva. Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rignold, Sheri. lan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Mar shall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To he obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.,
M
LIMITED,
I
358 Goorge-siraetp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co,
356 George-street, Sydney.
BULL DOQ ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling-, healthful, refreshing, and thirst.
quenching properties of this wond-renowned
Documff °f B ft ss Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possib l6 condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Bole Agents.
fPEMEIiI/S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT ,
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERT LOW, and the QUALITT
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Georve-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GPwOCERS AND STOREKEEPERS*
SWALLOW
cex.,i]:bi3 j ati:d
BISCUITS AID CASES, TEEACLE AID SOEDEI
Self-raising JErated Flour,, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OE QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
I. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1.881: and Two GoM Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4.
Bydnay Agantsi V. H. ARIEL!. A CO., 343 and 348 Kant-itrnnt.


Awarded Three
Prize Medals
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PIKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art fumiture
AND
Appointments,
IPrass, Iron, anti Nickle-plated Bedsteads.
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet- pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, and Brus-
sells Carpets in Newest Colourings and Designs.
B ankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Door Mats, Dinner-
Services, Chamber Ware.
Kitchen Requisites, &c , &c.
The Only Address is
335 and 365a Pitt-itraef,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
AWARDED THREE PRIZE MEDALS
FOR DURABILITY.
DTHKYlCOURoplIy
■t
feowy intallible remeoytor
fER/oi/s JjebiLit'd
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bis existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable JH* diclue, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, ana every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 12s , or four quantities in one, for 36s.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulbukn Stbeet,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
With the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for
C.URALGIA, HEADACHE TOOTHAC J.E,
RAINS s BRUISES, 1URNS. SCALP3, and
*aken internally eureg DIARRHCE A, PVSENj^RY,
CRAMPS, C03LIG, and all other iuterna achee
Pvnd pains- "
{Price H/ Sold UierjwlieTe.
0. E. MOULTON, sole PR0pn:rai o
MELBOUENL JUNE* DUSTEY 1 *
PAINT
M AﬁéfﬁAf-‘fﬁsi
TONIC NEBMLNE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A BAUJS, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE lor Ner-
oL vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonic and soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Aloohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 85s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Marhet-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations Illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE,
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT^^
IP*
tiM
\t
m
I
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&20OZ BOT s
WHOLESALE AGENT
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, howels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused hy their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills hy eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes s
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to roe to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED by
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass*
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
llitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
toy its use.
Sold by all Druggists ; $l, six bottles for ?5.
ELLIOTT BROS. and 8. HOFFNUNG & 00.,
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 mm SALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
jgr Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£K MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
,1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
S rices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
! applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery,
ROWLANDS’ OB ONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and ali dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly he as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS FUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet tiowder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood. Ph D , P.C.S , &e. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents — Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
HE
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES
AND CLEANED
REPAIRED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
BELTS,
CURATIVE
electric ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never- failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by wearing the MAGNETTGAL
ELECT KIC APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure anfl alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
LumbBgo, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of life-
electricity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their originai strength, we undertake to re-
charge aDy of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties iB
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 20s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for locales well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
Vs. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10s. Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per l pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called oau*
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefor*
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil&Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting-
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &o.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and cbfifiefi*
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial Will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times grehtbr than the
plain oil or any other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a smalt
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion evar
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers & Nurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids*
and Aged Persons, is the.most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD" is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. (
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIMITED. LONDON.
SCHWEITZER'S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,’’ with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality eheaper than such
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best C coa for India and the Colonies, Keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling wat«r, and palatable without milk.
celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Breaks
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed hy Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 3s , ss. 6 d., Ac.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
BCHWBXTSSEK & CO , 10 ADAM-STREHT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.


General Thayer’s Dirigible Balloons.
The working models of Dirigible Balloons, in-
vented by General Thayer, of which we give illus-
trations with this issue, promise to work a revolu-
tion in modern warfare, and to be the crowning
triumph of that annihilation of time and space
which has been the particular feature of the 19th
century. The balloons are of two kinds. The In-
dependent Dirigible obtains its ascending force
by means of hydrogen, and is propelled by two
motors. One of these is a high-speed air com-
pressor, coupled with a specially-adapted carbonio
acid gas engine. Air is forced into a reservoir
until sufficient pressure is obtained, and then
Gen. Thayer’s Dirigible Balloons.
released at regular periods, a forward energy re-
suiting from each discharge. The other motor
consists of a powerful wheel, which continuously
discharges air through a nozzle at the rear of the
air-ship, with powerful propelling force. If a
hollow truncated cane be placed over the nozzle,
the discharge of the blast draws in outside air
through the annular opening, and by imparting
velocity to it increases the volume of the dis-
charge, and decreases its velocity. The use of
several such conical tubes, one outside the other,
as shown in Figure 1, considerably increases the
efficiency of the motor. In experiments with
water, the addition of five cones to the discharge
tube gave an increase of 50 per cent. The
nozzle can be moved in any direction, and thus
the steeriDg is managed without the aid of any
rudder. The buoyant part of the balloon is made
of tissues of strong silk and broad rubber-band.
A speed of 25 to 30 miles an hour is claimed for
this air-ship. In war, it is claimed on behalf of
the Independent that by means of dynamite-bombs
and other explosives, it could lay a hostile country
under contribution, and destroy whole cities,
while, itself, safe from attack, and in times of
peace would afford a safe and exceedingly rapid
means of transit. General Thayer’s second
model, the Dependent dirigible balloon, is
directed by two wires on light cable, supported
by poles with D-shaped arms on their tops.
In shape, jt js similar to the Independent
but is propelled by electricity generated at the
end of the line and transmitted to a dynamo
machine on the deck of the balloon through
wheels. This air-ship is said to have a speed of 60
to 10 miles an hour in ordinary weather, and to be
capable of use in countries too rough for railways,
and the inventor calculates the cost of laying the
lines at about £3OO per mile. The models are now
under consideration by the British War Office, and
the result of the trials is anxiously awaited.
For rheumatism and gout Wolfe’s Schnapps
Dyspepsia, hilliousuess, nervousness and miser-
ableness all cured with Hop Bitters, Genuine
made.by American Go. See
A Monstrous Massacre.
One of the most shocking cases of barbarous
treachery and ingratitude we have ever heard of
occurred in South Australia the other day. The
story comes to us by letter from one of the sur-
vivors. A whole community, after tendering hos-
pitality to a distinguished Government official, were
ruthlessly poisoned by order of the same! The worst
days of the Borgias offer nothing fiendish enough to
parallel this case. We will name the culprit, and
let him prosecute us if he dare. In a matter of
this sort it would be criminal to be silent. But
let our correspondent tell the ghastly tale in his
own words. He says:—“The whole community
was astir making preparations for the re-
ception of the great man. A number of
the most influential members formed them-
selves into a committee to present him with
an address. It was tot expected be would
accept a banquet but a store of provisions had
been laid in to make sure. Pickets were placed
on the road to give notice of his approach and
there was talk of erecting a triumphal arch, but
the difficulties of the ground and our inexperience
in the construction of such things, prevented this
proposition from being put into practice, Alter
several delays the great man arrived, and on*
most respected citizen stood forth to read till
address to him. It was couched in the mo ®
reverential terms, though it contained some com
plaints about the molestations we have suffered*
lately and asked tor a redress of grievances onlv
too well known to him. Would vou believe if y
instead of listening to the address, the haughty visi
tor actually threw a stone at the speaker which hit
him on the head and stunned him The next dav nil
my kindred were poisoned. lam the sole survivor
The person who caused them to be poisoned was
the Commissioner of Crown Lands.” There is th«
whole story, and a black and abominable storv it
is. If there is justice in the land, the person named
should be made to feel it. We are too' sick with
horror to write any more on the subject.
[P.S.—We have just discovered in time that the
writer of the letter we received was a Jack-Rabbit.
We overlooked the signature at first. The 8.
Australian Commissioner of Crown Lands has
begun a tour of inspection of the rabbit camps in
that colony. We trust the commissioner will
think none the worse of us for our somewhat
strong language. If we had noticed the signature
at first we should have written in a different
strain. These littlo mistakes frequently occur in
newspaper offices.— Ed. B.]


Head BTOUT.— This favourite
*U? of 04. STfl
Anb 01 the l br^!? ct0(1 with great care from -
cann Ur of the celebrated firm of
fetbe «nd Co., Dublin, and therefore
& ojs l .?, To be procured everywteor*.
brack.
tns
special notice.
J) u &INa rHE CURBENT MONTH,
find
i'HIOR TO THE AIR.VAL
liiftQp of
To lIP o TDMn ’ shipments, expected
üb *SE on or ABOUT THE lat of
Yj . 1 march,
SHAPES & SHAW
§s!l the Balance
thei
o<
e,f ‘ Summer Stock
at
Prices.
f i, P ( ..j ,j u <?tiocs in Trimmed Millinery
1101 * 0118 ia Untrimmed Straw
%>e*i al . in Children’s Costumes
tai na Auctions in Lace and Muslin Cur-
l iais^ educUous Summer Dress Mate-
t«r- j
Ijl >N'q Ci\?J KB SfI °CLD TRY OU« SUPERIOR
fOR , j 4 *Y r I' H *’ SPECIALLY URED
Sal, AND CHILDREN S WEAR, NINE-
v ' L!N ° 3 tnd SIXPENCE the PIECE
li yards each.
Umbrellas,
L YRGESr, lho
’ CHOICEST,
and
CHEAPEST
STOCK in THE COLONIES.
SHAW,
~ ’ 328 Geokge-street.
R *» VASELINE.
A
J^C)R
v® H 1 /i l i!,Pari 1 5. Rad Preserving Horses’ Hoofs
tvjis pi‘ ee > and prevents their growth.
tR-Pta h„ nra c jjV e 6ervative it is invaluable- pre-
i'bti.oP®’ and renders it waterproof.
USm » ot or n^i s l, ve qualities, uneqalled as a
O&J 1 foA for hoping in perfect order
R bavi eB > &o. it is the sole material
ar mw Ve Q Purposes in the Austrian an<3
' ’ °oid by all Saddlers and Store-
w s !L oljls AGENTS:
& GO.,
54 1 S H* n raia ® « U ’l
y“ADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
Sydney.
■r
m
m
HATTERS
STREET
N
SHAPES
ALLACE,
/ e Very description of
Sw A*' Mercantile and
Stationery.
~, 2*2. Wawosisto# rmtiTM i»s
.
6X* 48« a¥D«a;
Foster 's Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
m
S£
*a JBB PAL B ALB
71m BEST ALB and STOUT In the Market
■OLD BT ALL BTOKKKBBPBRB AND WINB
MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Agents:
V. Balchßn, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
IJIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OYER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
tar THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saveS
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may bo taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retaii by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO„
85 Clarince-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BT ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up CtapltaL M .... *300,000
Reserve Fund *155,000
Directors:
:.G.M.G., Ohairn an.
M.L.O,
Auditors:
Jas. Seroggle, Esq. | H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Gbotral Manager: I Secretary:
V. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pynment, Redfern, Gosford, Nyng> n,
Beurke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-shreet.
Directors j
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul SamueLK.C.MT.GI Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager: Geo.H.Alexander,Esq.
London Bankers;
The National Provincial Bank of England
The Hon. Sir John Hay, 1
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.O.
Seorge.B. Caird, Esq.
on. Philip Gidloy King,
0. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
oial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED TTJRITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it p sscsscs a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry win& without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp.”
Tft&PP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
HB. BOYD,
63 CASTLISRE A G H-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales,
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases
Specialty,
Box 130 G.P.O.
( ¢ 3
"*"' - V I . ‘
,7 .f MN,
'. ' A . 5 r'.\
H " ”B W
'f1ifl‘ldj‘Lf-R "32» n {‘I‘
'v "WK . ~ "NW“!
1 ‘- H“
4:“ ‘ 4%“ ‘ﬂw’ﬂﬂh ,3
. .‘ ; ‘ﬁﬂhvar
‘ﬁﬂﬂiﬂ ‘r
-| “I 11:1 \“ﬁ
' , w' r.:.\:, “'I»““|"l\‘t'
, \ \._..1
H M ..r AW
1,’ Var-...,qwu ..2.\
‘2‘ r .3“;
Barry's Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Os.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL RISE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,C00,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
m.
a
-
w® Head Office*. r
First Fire Society established In me eoiony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
p sci of their Premiums as a cash bonus out ©f
refits every year.
Policy-hc’ ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WA : ,'i BE .... Im•C l •. Manager
Head Offlcea— FlTTjmad K STREETS.
aT& c^mnebbeln,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmsad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THB LATEBT MUsIC AT HALF PRICE.
J. MURPHY’S
Gsnfral Loan and discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-etreet.
Money Lent attlie Lowest Rate of Interest
In ties City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at 10d. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at nates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murpby a Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, cornerof Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
T
HE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIV B STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. 8. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
vV v^
&
&
.V
A,'
A>'
A -// 0 v *,<P
O <s>' *>° 9° -Q? Q^
<v
P V>V> * v ' H
J*
Messrs, S. HOFFNUNQ & CO., Agents,
B3E&. BRIG-HT'S FHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Btudy, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without, exciting- care or thought unon the
individual a« to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and. is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agenta-Ehniojii linos.
m
m
r
6. B. ■ODIMS,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large ap.d varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of tis® fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
is a - 80 AGENT for the eminent firm
BUSaY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, See., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
80S @©©rf|s.sf.p SyfSissy,
Where Inspection la invited.
*|lH
E FRESH FOOD AND ICE CQMPANI
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
A 3
He- 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &e., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may bo left for delivery
by their carte.
They have also taken over the Agenoy fo
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food S. fee Co., Limited,
Head Offloe SI Harbour-streel
Stables ... Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
New Central Dispensary,
53 BASKET STREET,
Two doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.,
Pb. C., M.P S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only
at Reform Prices.
Branoh Houses :
Crown Street, Train Terminus, Sydney,
and Suva, llji.
Orders sent by pest promptly executed.
Medicines forwardea to any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) can
be sent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
C O CO A
MASON BROTHERS
uiaiHxj
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BOYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AJKD
BARTHSNWAR
B,
WINES, BEERS, AKD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORENand 00/8
Cognac,
J. T, OATEN’S
gehaapps aud Genera.
A, MELVIN and SONS'
Bdintraiga pale Ale.
Mm*
mL Ingh&ms
*«=*=
m :,s
gUPHOI\BI>\
nn
fp*:
|fv; jft
A.
. .
I y !&v*«
/■!
f /
; IpEr-jy
-,?-*«• '* ,
7#7>
4,45
MGHS
'i
IM
la
lf I


"-re*
nn
IMP
sOP
.?•
v,,
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Platt
*o®
o
BONA-FIDE REDUCE
’4§f, *) I £& # :
339 a 34i Georce$ t Sydne 1
V.,■%
AN D» A T - s
14 B © lhbkelSV E. Melbourne
z
:
#
,
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK I® l
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
COCOA
J. S. FHY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.~LA.NOBT.
=s»r;
• :■ ,-jv
M 2
HE
ss
is
OwjifiA
Wmflffm,
§»
mm
■■L'lr.i
DR. O^O^IOrELD,,
52 Castlereitgh Street,
STDUEY, UsT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches-
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all p ri vate cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR, O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective-
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are-
— u treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that; a physician paying particular attention to a class of' cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If yon secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR jr_ O CONNELL,
52 Castlereaglr Street (abound fdoob), Sydney,
BUDG EREE! BUDGEREE !
Trade
m.
3 - -
Mark-
ETC) MORE FEVER.
BINFECTANT is the most wonderful Garm-*»*r^i s
destroyer known. No household should be without it,- as it instantly
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all ohemis 18 ’
Depot: JAI. C. STEEL, Bullefln-lana, L wu®*
R
OBEKT fiDTOfIEB * 0,0
(Late Wiiliara Long),
«T WINS AND SPIBIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNET
Country Orders reoeiye prompt attention.
SILVER MEDAL
CELLARS and BOD® w .
354 Qeorge-^ 1
(Beneath Paling'^
mSMSJDTS!
HOLLIK6 & SPANBENBERG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZEMEN IRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This bigh-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
G. J. WELLS,
1, Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom may be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
fiords.
J3T" THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.J.WELLS,
1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHER S
after before
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISEESS.
Boyd’a Beard, F.lixirdid thin,and
will do 14 on either bald head or
bare /nee. Forces heavy Moua-
tac/ie\u from 2 to 4 weeks and never
Sails, £> f (X>O young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
BEFORE AFTER
Copyrighted .
3 pJctt. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets I*. Gd<
each, 3 for 3*. Gd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
/Lddress, Frank Sole Agent, Box 730,0.P.0., Sydney, N.S. W-
P. EIBBI,
From the late Mr. Jajcbs Cubits, 9
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) yean:
Manager for oyer ten (IQ) yean.
BLAKE’S MP* 0
STEAM
0f 1
H. P. GREGORY *
17 PITT STB
SYDNEY.
ABE SOLE AG)ENTS JOB
»nd have in Stock And to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULAR
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS pi
DEEP-WELL-SINKING
«
SEND FOB PRICES AND Al*
CATALOGUES FORWA
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, 9
Manufacturer of ail kinds of Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and of vioor^
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at " ' "
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. *
Ceicutta Exhibition awarded the Oniy Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, BiM I*' 1 *'
