

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN AUSTRALIA.
tnn
gAUTURRN FASHIONS.
The Latest, the Ereshest,
the very Newest.
PRETTILY TRIMMED
Hiigutti Jerseys,
Erom 7/9.
--
m
FASHIONABLE ITEMS.
NO END OP A CHOICE
of
Elpt Jtraj Jackets,
ct
VERY LOW PRICES.
AN EXQUISITE DISPLAY
of
AUTUMN MILLINERY.
ttter
■KITTLE BOYS’ CLOTHING has our special care. We study the exigencies of the situation in every way; we see that the boys are well and serviceably
and we are careful, in the interest of the parent, to keen prices down to the lowest ebb.
THE palace emporium is close to the railway station.
c b laob Leyton and Peyton’s, and Kendrick’s Bedsteads,
•w 4 .° a Dd-p°liBhed pillars, Bronze and Niokel mounts.
Rrw pie Odid Brass-mounted Half Tester, £3!
Vj Vs> T „
TROUSER SUITS, in Fancy
H BOBSEEI MO SODS, PALACE
A
EAEE
BHOW
» , •
Of
Btistds
JUST
NOW.
Biggest, Best, and Moat Varied Stock of Bedsteads in
Australia. Allklnd*. AJI prioes. Grand quality.
Magnifloent finish. Extreme Durability.
Tweeds, Nine and Sixpence!
MU, Haymaikei Only.
2oq Sample iSeAsreaflfc
always on view


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
. - IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
□WING BEAR, Brass A Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
r Braes and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gaefitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-nttinir
of every description.
“VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &e.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,’
1 ,
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Far,
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, B*B Macquarie Pises, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GEA.BANTBED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast.
Luncheon, or Supper;" and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Cdtebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, Ac., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 3s , ss. 6d., Ac.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SOIWSIIZER & CO., 10 ADAM-BTBEBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSEB.
OBGtANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE
“SMITH”
BRUCE ft MASSEY,
197 Pl%t-st p Sydney.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE BEP 4.RTMEN r, /which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during’ his recent visit to Europe.
He eas therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
iuerit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLIBH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THH FINEST BRANDS of WHISKY. BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Pilot s obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. |W~ Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Statiqn or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine artieles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case : •
5 Quarto KEY GIN, 1 Quart 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WINE,
2 Quarto PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, I Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant £ Importer,
George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket. Sydney.
JfO'
&
U
Makers to th e Queen
r eshin|
Genuine'
Economical
sfi
ft
CALLAGHAN
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 BEOR6E STREET.
5
A'*'
WKDDINGB. BALLS. PICNICS, AND PAKTIBB A BPBCIALITY.
MUSIC SELLEBB BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HEB MAJESTY THB QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.8.W.;
Also, at London, Matence, Paris, and Brussels.
LARGEST STOCK Tn THE COLONIES.
•f
m£R & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY, j
fIIHIS Hotel Is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, Ae
*1 Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-clans Wines and Spirit?
'fhe moat Comfortable an-i Commodious Private Bar in the city.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
WT LUNCHEON AND BOOMS YOB LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
HEMS, ms, and P,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
no, mm d icurn unin
Importers of
BNGINEB, KNGINKRRB’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMEN*
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT. PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS
UAmVDTiTC aATTimmnnr.> « TTT »r.r rnn ■ _
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS' SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB, FLATS, SR BET,
and HOOP IKON
GALVANISED OORRU-
SATED and PLAIN
lON
SHEET and PBBPO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERT
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BflftC
'
IvM
1 s
aIHKS „ BOB!-
v Si c AlVo"iV
i
TB A M * nd
PUMPS
CjATHBSt
SHAPING*-ngiLLl^ 0
ING, and
machines
itbam hamm*® 8
ISSHff' "
’ B a h t alifcP°**
iUICKSILVBB. *°*
Price Lists and Catalogues furnisned on appnoanon.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO-,
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, _ . „ bC
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HAW*
SYDNEY:
London Offtoe - .8S QRACSOHUROH str***
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
Alex. Borthwick. G i a ss«
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. U ‘
281 O-eorgre-st., S^rd
OFFORD & CO.’S HAl S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street*
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERT VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in bo*, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayttn’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Canthsrides and Russian Bear's
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2<. 6i.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT bTREBT.
ART IFICIAL T E ETH
fOMPLETESFT
V^ v? tR&LOVVf^I
MARSHALL BRO!
dentists]
133 ELI 2 A BETH ST
H-lec
'H*
machinery.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
URGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
V AT
LOWEST COST!
CRAtf ES
eN CI^ S '
l aW k
fIOW£ RS '
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNC h£S ’
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE
ROBERT COOPER'
3QLE AGE
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET. !
Melt>°
22, KING
ur» e '
T 0
FREE
PREBC IftIFTI
bo found in the “ 0*
LIFE," for the speedy cure of P(e* r * rW coP* g jf
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c ' < O A,
this book will be sent post free. fle
p.nny stamps, Address—
8. WARD & CO-
Sydney Pharro®^
76 Huniof' 8 ® 1


The BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 155 -New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1886.
Price—6JL
The Proposed Pauper Emigration to Aus-
tralia.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1886.
“ A well-considered system of state-di-
rected emigration ” appeared in November
last to the aristocratic and opulent. Lord
Brabazon to be the only means of ending
“ the fearful struggle for life which is to be
met with in the East and South of London,
and in most of the larger towns ” of Eng-
land. His luxurious lordship criticised then
the condition of the despairing paupers
with the same keen interest that a squatter
might feel in viewing the appearance of his
thirst-tortured and starving sheep. His
propheoy concerning the ttrrible dangers
and disasters certain to result from the
continuance of this “fearful struggle for
life” is a plain deduction from known
premises and has already received a measure
of fulfilment in the London Bread-riot of
the 9th Eeb., but the plan by which he pro-
poses to avert the danger is as inefficient in
its probable action as it would be cowardly
in its application. So feeble does his sug-
gested remedy appear that we did not con-
sider it worthy even of derision when it was
first offered as a panacea of pauperism, but
the subject having now attained almost the
central place in the public mind of England,
and adoption of the scheme being largely
urged, the problem and its solution have
become of active interest to the residents of
every part of the empire.
* * *
So far has the plan of Lord Brabazon
commended itself, that, as we learnt by cable
on the 26th March, Earl Gkanvillb has
written to the Agents-General of these
colonies asking how many immigrants
would be rectived in Australia, and how
much would be paid towards the expenses
of their passage. This project, so far as it
concerns the colonies, may be dealt with in a
few words. If the immigrants are to con-
sist of indolent amd semi-criminal paupeis,
our answer is that we don’t desire and will
not have them. If, on the contrary, they
are industrious artizans the effect upon our
own workmen would be to reduce wages by
intensifying competition, and it is unreason-
able that workmen hero should be forced to
contribute to the expense of bringing out a
horde of mechanics to become their rivals
in the local labour markets, thus depreciat-
ing the rate of wages by increasing the sup-
ply of labour without enlarging the demand
Money thus paid for wholesale State-
directed and State-paid importations of
labour would be a gigantic subsidy to
capital. As concerns the colonies then this
scheme would be manifestly unjust, and un-
der no circumstances oan we consider it as an
efficient means of relieving the distress and
benefiting England, unless indeed cargoes of
revolutionary loafers instead of the pro-
mised “skilled mechanics who are not pau-
pers,” are induoed to become exiles. If this
former objection able class be prevented by
the colonial representatives from embark-
ing, and only skilled workmen who possess
some means be sent, England will lose many
of her most aetive producers of wealth.
Nor.could this blood-letting from the veins
of industry do more than relieve the
distress for a very short time. The same
causes which produced the present result
will in the future have an effect, similar
in kind though greater in degree, un-
less very large reforms to which we
shall presently allude are inaugurated.
Ireland proves the correctness of our
assertion. No part of the world has, dur-
ing the last 50 years, supplied America and
Australia with more immigrants than has
Ireland, yet the present inhabitants are the
most indigent, discontented and trouble-
some subjects of the British Empire. There
is a cause for the discontent in Ireland as
there is for the pauperism in England. It is
not the symptoms of the national disease that
English statesmen should treat—they must
presoribe for the disease itself. To attempt
to get rid of paupeiism and distress by
banishing the present victims of a vicious
National system, is like trying to blanch the
nose of a toper while he still continues to
take an undiminished quantity of spirits.
If the English speakers and writers were to
inquire into the causes of the revolution-
breeding misery which now afflicts London
with almost unprecedented intensity, the
true remedy would be easily found. But
the aristocratic Brabazons and their Press
DR. JAMES EDWARD NEILD.
organs only turn their thoughts to these low
fellows because, as Imperial Federation
ingenuously says:—
“ Such occurrences as were witnessed on the 9th
ult. in the metropolis, when some thousands of
unemployed men, after demonstrating by meet-
ings and speeches in Trafalgar-square, marched to
the West End, and proceeded to smash clubhouse
and shop windows, stop carriages in the middle of
the streets, and snatoh jewellery from the persons
of their fair occupants, forcibly enter shops and
pillage them, and other similar outrages, compel
us to think on our social problems.”
It is the damage done to property and
the commission of similar outrages which
alone has power to rouse Dives to concern
himself about Lazarus, and the result of
the enquiry is that it is an infernal nuisance
to have such fellows about the place—they
must be sent off somewhere before they do
any more mischief, and then may Dives
wallow in his wealth with an untroubled
mind. There is no work for Lazarus to do,
for Dives gets his luxuries and most of bis
necessaries from another land, so the gener-
ation of Lazarus must go to a far country
if they would earn an honest living. Dives
must buy in the cheapest market, though
they be foreign serfs or slaves who labour to
supply bis wants. When another generation
like Lazarus knocks threateningly at the
door of the owner of millions, they must be
sent cut of the country too. Lazarcs is
vulgar, the sores of poverty disfigure him.
He is a bad sort of fellow to have on the
premises. He must go away somevhere.
» * ■
That is pretty nearly the situation of
affairs in England. While unemployed
millions are vainly seeking work, the Bel-
gian ironmasters are pouring thousands of
tons of steel rails into Freetrade England,
and every port on the Continent is closed to
the British manufacturer. While cutlers
seeking work are wearing down the foot-
paths of Sheffield, America is underselling
England in the Home markets. Germany
supplies England with manufactured iron
and steel implements, Franoe sends over
articles of luxury, America all kinds of mer-
chandise which labour is required to pro-
duce, and England remits her millions to
pay for these, while her own labouring
population is drifting into revolution be-
cause they cannot, by honest labour, obtain
the wherewithal to keep body and soul to-
gether. The Home tariff only affects the
working classes by increasing the cost of
each article of every-day consumption, bo
that mechanics must obtain more for their
labour than would be necessary if the ports
were absolutely free ; but that same tariff
refuses to put English workmen on a level
with the ftreign artificers by adding to the
cost of the product the extra cost, by reason
of the tariff additions to the necessaries of
life, of producing it in England. It is"no
wonder that England’s manufacturing
supremacy under these circumstances
should be a tradition of the past, less than
a fact of the present or a hope of the future.
Nor is it strange when foreigners are enabled
to take the bread out of the mouths of Eng-
lishmen, that the latter should become
seditious, turbulent, and altogether appro-
priate subjects for wholesale banishment.
■ • •
But there is an immeasurably greater evil
than this freetrade protection of foreigners
at work to produce misery to the turbulent
unemployed, and it is one whose agency
is immediately apparent. The reported
pauperism which makes it desirable to
banish thousands who are not able to earn
the crust necessary to sustain life, shows
that the “unequal distribution of the
national wealth ” is the outcome of the
present social system, and the pauperism
and distress of the many its necessary inci-
dent. Altnough it is deemed absolutely
necessary to cast out these paupers that
they may lind elsewhere the means of exist-
ence denied them in their native land, we
And that the rich suffer from no diminution
of capital or income. Her Gracious Majesty
still has ht r odd millions Bunk in remunera-
tive London ground rents, and month by
month increases her hoarded treasure and
its yearly produce in spite of miserable
doles o£ £5OO to the Distress fund, and £lO to
the Home for (ye gods!) Lost Dogs: “Wales”
is still able to visit Monaco and baok
horses at Epsom and Ascot: Alfred of
Edinburgh continues to view with avari-
cious eyes his easily got and tremblingly
guarded treasures: and gifts are yet made
to German loafers and royal “bummers’
who are too noble to yield any return for
the thousands which they draw from the
coffers of a long-suffering nation. Nor have
the nobles become less wealthy since the
pauper population became desperate, and,
consequently, seditious. Westminster,
Portland, Manchester, Argyle, Bog-
cleuch, and other dukes, alleged nobles,
and millionaires, add thousand to thousand
by coining gold from the sweat of the
workers, litled felons and aristocratic
blackguards are now able and willing as
ever to lodge extravagant retainers with
women of the Jefferies class : lisping lords
and wealthy youDg commoners can still
spend as much on a single bouquet for
some tight-rope Tottie as would keep an
East End family of 10 for six months: and
the army of prelates and parsons suffer
no diminution of incomes during life
and boat away to the hereafter leav-
ing estates valued at from a quarter of
a million downwards. The misfortune of
the poor is the opportunity of toe rich. If
men are so reduced that they must take a
shilling a day or starve, “my lord” is
graciously willing to pay for that labour,
and obtain an immediate return of five
hundred per cent, on the investment. So
the extremes daily widen. Every man
added to the list of absolute paupers in-
creases the hoards of the millionaire. Every
capitalist who attains to the rank of a
millionaire leaves a line of starving poor to
mark his road to opulence. The situation
bears a strong resemblarc? to the “lambing-
down” system of lack-block shanties. The
shearer there gives in his cheque for which
a few drinks of poisoned grog are handed
to him. When the poison at length loses its
hold of his faculties he begins to grumble,
gets noisy, and is an eyesore to the place.


He must be turned out. His money is gone,
he is a disgraoe to the premises. Substitute
royalty, nobility, and the clergy for the
publican; the niggardly wage for the dole
of liquor; the labourer’s strength for the
shearer’s cheque, and the scene is complete.
And now that the labourer has been
“ lambed down ” to a condition of pauperism
he becomes noisy and seditious. Lock him
up, say the robber classes, fire him out,
ship him off to Australia, get him out of
sight and hearing, we can get nothing more
from him, and he has become a nuisance.
* * *
Land monopoly is the ohief cause of this
inequality of wealth. According to the
figures stated in the House of Commons by
Mr. Labouchbrb, and, so far as our files
show, uncontradicted by the party person-
ally interested, the peers of England hold
an average of 35,000 acres apiece, and re-
ceive revenues averaging £30,000 annually.
When the laws enable men by the accident
of birth to monopolise suoh huge sections of
what was given for the common use
and benefit of all, it is evident that
poverty and distress must be the lot
of the masses who are thus deprived
of their inheritance. The stated area,
35,000 acres, would be a magnificent portion
in New South Wales, where the competition
for land, except in or near cities, towns, and
villages, is comparatively slight, but in
Great Britain, where the struggle for God’s
gift, the soil, is always intense, the appro-
priation of so much land-surface means
want, misery, and destitution to all those
who should be, but are not, joint-tenants of
the estate. Land monopoly is the germ
of the malady which now afflicts England ;
the unequal distribution of wealth its effect
upon the national system; and an army of
riotous paupers the offensive outward erup-
tion which marks the progress of the disease.
It is impossible to make any other diagnosis
of the case, yet British statesmanship, forced
to notioe the symptoms, is blind to the
disease which works destruction internally,
and proposes to effect a permanent cure by
means of an outward application not even
designed to check the vicious agencies which
those symptoms indicate. There is only one
ground upon whioh reasonable hope can
rest, and that is contained in the fact that
it is impossible that the real remedy can be
for ever withheld. If the rulers of the day
will not give it, the despised proletariat will
take it themselves. Already a London street
has been plundered in broad daylight. This
is but a trivial brush at the out-posts. The
main army is coming on, and if no parley is
made, the forces must meet. It may be that
wealth and dignity may triumph in the first
skirmishes, but such triumphs must be fol-
lowed by greater disasters. Concession is
the only wise course, and suoh concession
must be more than the gift of exile. The
mob demand bread: they will not widingly
accept banishment as its equivalent.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gladstone and Hartington.
The English Premier has gone too far for his
lukewarm Lieutenant. The proposals for the
settlement of the Irish question have caused the
two to part. This is exactly what might have
been expected. It is not that Gladstone proposes
to concede too much to Ireland, but that he in-
tends that hereditary legislation shall not be part
of the Irish Constitution, and that the landlords
there shall be forced to sell their estates. The
Tories and Tory-Liberals know well that if peers
be not allowed to carry on their legislative bur-
lesque all excuse for the very existence of the
peerage will have departed. The abolition of the
peerage in Ireland must be a consequence of the
cessation of legislation by the peers as a separate
body. And Ireland has been already made the
subject of experimental reform. The Disestablish-
ment of the Church in Ireland showed the possi-
bility and wisdom of Disestablishing the Church
of England; and the satisfactory result of the
sale (on terms of payment by instalments) of glebe-
lands to Irish peasants has paved the way for this
present proposal to sell to them on terms the acres
of their landlords. The peerage and the rights of
landlords in England are both distinctly menaced
by Gladstone s scheme of Home ltule. No
wonder then that Hartington, heir-apparent to a
Dukedom and rent-roll of £lBO,OOO a year, refuses
to walk further with his chief. And all who wish
to save the peerage will follow him. Then Eng-
land will know her enemies. The Liberals, as a
united body, no longer exist. Some have gone to the
Toxyism which at heart they always worshipped >
and others have become Kadioals. The Irish pro-
posals will be discussed as though they concerned
Ireland alone, but the real question is as to the
abolition of the peerage, and the rights of land-
lords to deal with their estates, and to hold them
jn perpetuity.
Commercial Christianity.
The Sydney Morning Herald is nothing if not
pious, so she published a sermon on Good Friday.
It was a leading article, but a sermon all the
same. Like the member for Queanbeyan and his
prototype the Jaynil One, she commenced by scrap-
ing up some bits of history and mixing them to-
gether in a kind of hash. Then, after piling up
the agony and a lot of pious cant for more than
a column, the dear old lady winds up in this
fashion
“The bulk of civilised mankind still believe that
Jesus Christ lived and died 1800 years ago, and
that His death Is the grandest study and the
highest example ever furnished to mankind.”
Quite so, but in spite of this belief, pious
“.Christian ” papers of the Herald persuasion,
written chiefly by men who seem to have found
that the service of the Lord doesn’t pay, continue
to keep men at work on Sunday nights so that the
issue may be out on Monday morniDg; and in spite
of the faot that the life of Jesus Christ is the
highest example ever furnished to mankind, the
absorbing desire of local plutocrats is that they
may rake in the riches which He condemned by
building houses for working-men on blocks, 16ft.
by 100 ft., and screwing as much rent as possible
out of the unfortunates who inhabit these
dog-kennels. The bulk of civilised mankind
still believe in Jesus Christ, but despite the fact
that the Herald periodically drivels columns of
cant, there is more misery in the world—in Sydney
—than there ever has been before, and the rich
are more keen and reckless in grasping the inor-
dinate wealth which none have ever more sweep-
ingly condemned than Curist Himseif. When we
see parsons continuing in the Church, in spite of
offers of bigger screw elsewhere, and when the
avaricious rich share their goods with the poor,
then we shall have some faith in this general be-
lief in Christ on the part of “the bulk of civilised
mankind.” That belief appears to us but as a
badge of respectability, worn for the purpose of
enabling men more effectually to grab tne money
for which their little souls yearn with an insa-
tiable desire. Christ despised riches: his nine-
teenth-century “ followers ” believe in Him—
and adore the Golden Calf.
+
Tlie Waxmau Scholarships.
In Melbourne Punch we read this paragraph,
apparently printed in all seriousness by our
“humorous” contemporary:—
“ A complimentary banquet was given to Mr. A.
Waxman, at the Town Hall, on 15th April prior to
his departure for Europe. About 130 guests were
present, including representative men of all
classes. The Hon. Thos. Bent, M.L.A., presided,
and a most enjoyable evening was spent. A long
list of toasts was honoured, the chief one being, of
course, the guest of the evening. In responding
Mr. Waxman referred to his arrival here 30 years
ago, a poor and friendless boy, and testified his
recollection of early days by presenting the chair-
man with a cheque for £3OO in trust for a Wax-
man Prize for scnoolboys. The money was to be
invested at 6 per oent. and the income, £l3, to be
devoted to 13 prizes, one each for the Ea9t and
West Jewish schools and 10 State schools nomin-
ated by the Minister of Education. The announce-
ment was received with loud cheers. The utmost
goodfellowship prevailed, and it was midnight
before the banqueters had finished wishing their
guest bon voyage .”
This interesting paragraph, refers, we presume
to Mr. Aaron Waxman, the unblushing financier
who in Melbourne Insolvency Court some time
ago had to admit having screwed out of a young
Christian fool, one Petty, interest at tke rate of—
Holy Father Abrahamsh I—l4oo per cent, per
annum in transactions extending over years and
involving a considerable amount of money.
No wonder Mr. Aaron Waxman (J.P) is
now able to secure the presidential services
of that refined and splendid example of
Victorian statesmanship, Cabbage Bent —no
wonder he is able to clink his champagne-glass
among the best of the Christian trash in the mail”
boat saloon and look back with grateful emotion
upon his arrival in this golden Land (of Promise
to pay four months after date) 30 years ago, when
(sob) he was a poor and (more sobs) friendless
boy.” But, think of it, ye scoffing Gentiles—” a
cheque for £3OO in trust for a Waxman prize for
schoolboys!” Delightful thought: how Marcus
Clarke must smile in Paradise—if perchance the
Abrahams of this world have failed to register
with that Abraham into whose bosom they are all
to climb, the judgments obtained on bills of ex-
change in terrestrial courts! A Waxman prize
for schoolboys I Tell us, O Aaron, is there pre-
sented to your lofty mind the splendid vision
of a long line of grateful schoolboys trooping
up to receive in future years their reward
for proficiency in the compound interest-table ?
Just think of Waxman investing £3OO in the
sacred name of Education at six per cent! Why,
had Melbourne’s chiefest financier lent it out at the
rate he charged Petty it would at the end of one
year have grown to £3BOO. Invested on similar
terms for another 13 months, and the Waxman
Education Fund would have had £39,300 at its
credit. Yet another year and there would be
£548,800 wherewith to reward the two little Jews
and the 10 little Christians. In four years, at 1400
per cent, compound interest (and without, mind
you, charging a single penny extra for renewing
the bills), £7,683,300 would be at the disposal of
the Victorian Minister of Education to encourage
the study of practical arithmetic by means of
Waxman scholarships And in five years the
little Waxman mustard seed of £2OO would have be-
come a noble oak of £107.564,800; while in six years
whoever happened to control the educational ar-
rangements of the Cabbage Garden would have
millions more than enough money on hand to buy
up Ireland and wipe out the entire British Na-
tional Debt. We do hope Aaron will stay in Aus-
tralia and finance New South Wales out of her
troubles.
+
Unclean! Unclean!
Says a good man, and not in Palestine, 2000 years
ago, but in a ’bus in George-street, Sydney, to-day.
It is not the cry of a leper to a medicine or magic-
man, but of half-a-dczen nice, clean, pleasant,
wholesome women, to the common sense of this
community. They are driving up town, they have
paid their way, and they hope to travel in comfort,
when suddenly the door opens, and in come a
couple of Chinamen. Yellow, opium-stinking,
unwashed, the taint of their nationality about
them, beasts to those good women—not men—un-
clean! unclean! Yes, there is no mistake about
it. Despite all the humanitarian and cosmopolitan
teachings of the age, the typioal Chinaman remains
unclean. His nature, his essence, his unalterable
self is unclean. He doesn’t amalgamate, he doesn’t
ameliorate, he doesn’t read the papers, he doesn’t
wash, he neglects all the first duties of white
humanity. Then why should he enjoy its privi-
leges—why should he ride in its ’buses? That is
the question of present interest. He has ways of
his own, houses of his own, dirt-smell offensive-
ness—all his own; let him have a ’bus, a railway
carriage - his own—and, if he won’t pay for them,
let him walk.
The Victorian Government intend destroying such
numbers of Jos. Symes’ paper as contain “obscenity
or blasphemies. ’ Wo are not disposed to unre-
servedly back up tbe beliefs of Mr. Symes; for
Instance, we think that last number of the Libe-
rator, wherein he blackguards the R.C. Church,
and attempts to analyse Spencer, contains evi-
dence that Joseph is in some respects a most pre-
sumptuous person. But all the same we go for an
absolutely froe Prefs. They have in Victoria a
strong Obscene Publications’ Act; if Symes offends
against it let'him be criminally prosecuted, and, if
guilty, seat to gaol. The age for blasphemy-
prosecutions is past—is as dead as the dodo
or the Tichborne claimant’s chances; and
why, we ask, should a Government that has in-
voked against Symes all the machinery of the
law courts and been soundly thrashed, be allowed
to affect its purposes in secret by a mean side-
wind ? The most blasphemous publication extant
is the War Cry, which does as much injury to
Christianity in a week as Joseph Symes could do
in ten lifetimes. If the Victorians are wise, they
will block all attempts at establishing a censorship
of the Press, even if such a censorship be pro-
posed in the interests]of a Heaven which should
be able to look after itself. The censorship will be
entrusted to some prejudiced fool with a fat salary,
who will merely carry out, with the passive aid of
that large section of ignorants who see no further
than their own noses, the behests of a compact and
well-organised band of bigots. Rank obscenity
excepted, the fate of a newspaper should be left
to the ultimately unerring verdict of public
opinion. No obscene word ever appears in
the Liberator, and this we say, after having
read almost every number of it. The fervent
pietists, who are just now so extensively and
worthily represented by the Melbourne D.T., and
by thieving bank officials, must indeed be in des-
perate straits if forced to rely on a press-censor-
ship to uphold the Good Cause.
*
The Melbourne bowling - team have arrived
in Sydney. The game of bowls is a noble and
enthralling pastime, but no man ever takes to
bowls until he is 98in. round the waist, and wears
a collar to keep the pressure off his carotid
artery. Bowls means incipient paralysis. It also
means congestion of the liver, and fatty degener-
ation of the heart; likewise Bright’s disease,
B anguineous apoplexy, and the jim-jams. The
typical bowler is a man who breathes ster-
torou3ly, takes brandy-and-soda on arising, and
runs in a cow-like manner to oatch the train with
the las'; bite of a four-chop, eight-egg, and six-eup-
of-tea breakfast in his mouth. He is a man who
works like a horse all the morning in a close
office, and who, at lunch-time (limited strictly to
half-an-hour) stokes himself with soup, fish, beef,
sweets, ani cheese, and pint-o’-beer accompani-
ment-followed by one glass of curacoa and a
strong cigar. Then he rushes back to the office,
swears at his clerks, and buries his head in the
bill-book. On Saturday afternoon he takes three
glaese) of whisky-and-water after lunch, and (he
thinks) fully atones to Nature for his week’s work,
worry and gluttony by trundling some wooden
balls alODg an artificial green-sward. This is a
mad world.
4.
That choice and cultured assortment of pig-
murderers and retail whisky-sellers known as the
Sydney Corporation, have collectively made up
what they are pleased to oall their minds to spoil
Macquarie-street. They are paving that hitherto
pleasant thoroughfare with wooden blocks—for
the benefit, we suppose, of the sick and dying in
Sydney Infirmary, wao just now are John
M‘Elhone having ceased to bawl at midDight in
the Assembly Chamber hard by—in comparative
peace. We suppose that the thoughtful action of
these facetious representatives of the pork and
grog interests in unnecessarily inflicting upon the
inhabitants of a quiet street wherein there is
comparatively little traffic, the horrid rattle of
carls and cabs passing over an “ ultimately
economical” paving, is preparatory to the run-
ning by Government of a steam-tram right down
the middle of one of the only streets in Sydney
now worth liring in. However that may be, it is
plain that when the Corporation shall have done
its worst Sydney hospital will neither be worth
living in nor dying in. The wind-up of an irritable
hospital-patient who expires to the wood-block
tattoo accompaniment of Sydney Corporation is by
no means pleasant to contemplate. The Invisible
Genius, whatever it may be, which hovers round
Sydney Town Hall, and dominates whatever in-
tellect is possessed by the alderman, must, ere it
departed this world have lived in a rum-shop and
studied teatheticism at a slaughter-house amidst
the groans of dying swine.
Charity doesn’t begin at home in New South
Wales. Need for charity exists now at Lithgow
among the widows and children of the men killed
in the colliery. At the same time there is the
bogus “ Patriotic ” Fund—a sum of about £40.000,
raised for the purpose of rewatding the slaughter
of blackfellows who fought for their country and
their homes-daily accumulating interest. When
there seemed a chance of stars, ribands, baronet-
cies, C M G.-ships, being earned by a leaf from a
cheque-book, how the hundreds and the thousands
rattled ini Now the case is altered. People are
asked not to help in murdering blacks, but in
saving whites-and a paltry two or three hundred
is all that can be raised, even with Lord Caring-
ton as coliector-in-chief. Where are the wealthy
philanthropists who will help in secret the dead
miners’ children ?
4
The ‘‘Victorian Natives” are sorry that they
asked their legal luminary, J. L. Purves, to
have his little say on the New Hebrides question.
The keen-witted brow-beating barrister has so
carefully cultivated the art of making himself ur.
pleasant, that it would seem he can’t open his
mouth without hurting somebody’s feelings. At
the Melbourne demonstration, Mr. Purves trod
upon the corns of his audience with the charac**
teristic professional indifference. That he escaped
from the meeting in one piece is due only to the
happy accident of birth. Who, but a protected
native, would have d»red to tell descendants of
“ Scots wha hae wi Wallace bled ” that the Scotch
are a “ conquered people ? ” Or have ventured to
remind offspring of the Sons of Erin that their
proud ancestors bent the knees to the perfidious
Saxon? Mr. Furves dis. this— ay, and worse. Per-
haps the hootings and hisses of young Australia
put him on his mettle. Perhaps he was aotuated
by pure cussedness. Anyway, it wasn’t a burning
desire to make himself affable, which prompted
the patriotic Perves to mention that “ when Aus.
tralia was first oolonised by the British, they did"
with it 'what the great and gallant French nation
was now doing with New Caledonia.” This his-
torical reminiscence alienated the orator from his
few remaining friends among the audience. By
the time he sat down the Victorian Natives awoke
to the painful fact that their pet barrister had
been getting at them all round. Purves would
be the very man to give an entertaining leoture
to the Jingo aristocracy of Sydney.
+
Ie was telegraphed the other day that Mr. Miles,
the Queensland Minister lor Works, had de
dined to copy the example of N.S.W. in allowing
race-horses to travel by rail at half rates. There
would not have been much in the news had not
the Minister's reason been attached to the decision
Mr. Miles (or Billy, as his familiars call him), told*
the deputation that he looked on racing as gam-
bling, and could not—we almost think we see Miles
straightening out his rugged features as the moral
necessities of the case presented themselves—
sanction any concession for suoh purposes. Hudi-
bras makes certain people compensate for the sins
they are inclined to by damning those they have
no mind to. Billy, than whom no man in Queens-
land has speculated more spiritedly in runs, grass-
laden or drought-stricken peradventure the
bearers of the veritable Golden Fleece, and perad-
venture the sepulchres of famished hopes -sitting
up with a shocked conscience when horse-racing
is suggested, is an eminently Hudibrastic figure.
The situation should be perpetuated in stone, or
in brass. Braes is better.
+
The Melbourne Aegus, commenting upon the
story told by Father Cone in Sydney the other
day concerning the trading propensities of the
English miesionaries in the Loyalty Isles, quotes
this sentence of the reverend gentleman: “These
English missionaries teach the blacks to call them
‘Messiah,’ and order them, in the name of the
Gospel, to trade with none but themselves,” and
says, “to most English readers the tale of the
reverend gentleman will sound incredible.” If it
does, then those English readers have never heard
of a certain reverend person in the South Seas
who has made himself, not only the Messiah, but
the whole Trinity of the credulous niggers-and is
Pope, Prime Minister, and Board of Trade in one
pious person. We do not say this because we
blame the missionaries for making their little
piles—in fact, we know that if we were in their
plaoes our invariable formula would be—after we
had Christianised the heathen to such an extent as
to inspire them with a salutary fear of hell—" Do
business with us -or be damned.” What we do
blame a lot of them for, however, is their hypo,
critical pretence of disinterested piety and yearn I
iDg after the salvation of souls. It is, we hope"
unnecessary for us to state that when we say this
we are not mahiag a sweeping assertion or imply-
ing that all Protestant missionaries devote a good
deal of their time among the heathen to feathering
their worldly nests. But we know for a
fact that a great many of them do, and these
we blame, not, as we said before, for keep-
ing their eyes on the plunder, but for not having
the moral courage to admit openly that they do it.
If they had this moral courage and owned up they
would receive our unalloyed admiration, as we
don’t beiieve the Papuan heathen can be Christian
ised under three generations, and see no reason
why the servants of the Lord should not make an
honest penny out of the first two before they
finally go to the devil.
Dr J. E. Neild.
On the first page of this week's Bulletin appears
a portrait of Dr. James Edward Neild, whose name
is well known all over Australia as that of an
accomplished man of letters, and a no less able
authority on forensic medicine. Dr. Neild, has
assisted in many successful literary enterprises
and was one of the leading lights of Melbourne*
Punch in its palmy days. He has for years been
dramatic critic for the Australasian, was long
editor of the Victorian Medical Gazette, and
is &till lecturer at the medical school of Melbourne
Uoiversity. The doctor is generally credited with
the authorship of the “ Melbourne letters ” in the
Sydney Morning Herald, which are almost
universally regarded as the only interesting con-
tributions to that ponderous journal.
NOTICE.
The Rates oe Subscription to “The Bulletin”
are as follows :
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director
to whom all orders for tho paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
To Rnth
The old white house, with sheltering eaves,
The silver-shining river,
The fabled trees with pale-green leaves.
For ever doomed to quiver;
The anoient dial, and the tree
On which I carved your name,
The llower-beds girt with rosemary,
They ali are here the same.
And I am here, but I am changed
From youth to tottering Bge;
And you, beloved one, still estranged,
And closed is Pleasure’s page.
Ruth, can no deed of mine atone ?
Come back, my love, co qq e back;
80 old, ah! leave me not alone.
To tread the downward track.
Condone those errors of my youth,
A pitting oar inoline;
“ To err is only human,” Ruth I
Forgiveness is divine.
Bangonia, Aprils, 18®}.
B.F.G,


Bradlaugh, we hear, will arrive in Sydney
about August.
At Toowoomba they have given the
poundkeepership to a woman. Woman-like, she
wants to raise the pound fees.
A London paper states the Princess
Beatrice “ wes robed in white silk at the recent
drawing-room, but her figure is too prominent
and »s<ertive for white attire.”
“ A Chinese paper states that the new
Empress of China has been choseD, and that
At the Sydney Japanese Village.
eunuchs have been appointed to wait on her
Majesty. In accordance With the established cus-
tom of the Manchu dynssty, she will not be per-
mitted to see her r latlves.” Happy Emperor I No
mother-in-law.
They had come up to be married three
times, hut each time her happy s wain was drunk.
The clergyman refused to proceed, and at last
said he was surp ised so respectable-looking a girl
wag not ashamed to appear at the >.ltar with a man
mducha state. The poor girl burst into tears,
and said she couldn’t help it. “ And why. pray ? ”
Because, sir, he won’t come when he’s sober I”
“ A boy named Carolan has died in a Dub-
lin hospital, having undergone an unsuccessful
attempt to remove a threepenny piece from his
throat. He procured the coin from his sister to
show a trick.” We have seen older boys procure a
coin from their sister* and show them a trick
worth two of that. Tne operaiion of swallowirg
t may be viewed through the bottom of a tumbler.
The story comes from China. It was a
Chinese judge, and he improved on Solomon’s
plan. P.acing the infant in a circle made with
chalk on the ground, the two mothers were re-
quested to pull it out, and the true ma showed
herself by not hauling. We did a little in that
line ourselves one time; it was a little bov in dis-
pute. We took him outside the court and rolled
him in the gutter. On bringing him in the true
mother showed out by welting the uafortunate
juvenile about the ears, to? false one being utterly
indifferent to the state of his “ pinny.”
Thus an English paper re the last Queen’s
drawing-room: “Too carriages with tbeir loads
of uncovered flesh w6re duly inspected, as usual,
by a crowd of curious women, loitering errand
boys, and unemployed loafers; the remarks of the
last-mentioned upon the oeeunants being fre-
quently more to the point that strictly nice or
polite. The number of debutantes with recognis-
able claims to prettiness was small. Instead, there
was a bewildering plenty of matronly-looking
women, who were laced to death and painted like
pets of the ballet, and who were frequently dis-
gusted to a degree at the slow progress their vehi-
cles made towards the desired haven.”
Perhaps you have heard about that Hue-
garian servant girl who lost a good situation last
month under quite exceplional circumstances. Hf r
master was the Protestant parson at Sz )lnok, and
his wife loved somebody else, not wisely, but too
well. As this was a reversal of the usual order of
things in clerical families the parson decided upon
r-revenge. He ordered the servant to stand
around with a candle while “missus” confessed
on a sheet of foolscap Then he blotted the oon-
fefsion, shot his giddy wife, shot her three
children, chucked the servant under the chin, and
shot himself. The poor surviving girl was so dis-
tressed that she ran for the gens d’armes without
stopping to loot the valuables. Now she regrets
that she ever “held the candle to the devil.”
1 ( is reported that au English baronet who
lost his pile at Monaco returned to his residence
in Ttaly and blew out all that was’eft of his brains.
Thereupon the governess to his children put
enough laudanum underneath her little pinny to
send a whole city to the hereafter, his chamber-
maid went raving, rampirg mad, and his valet
buried himself and his sorrows in a monastery.
He must have been almost as popular as an opera-
te tenor who onee visited Sydney. We went to
visit this celebrity one morning. He was coclined
to his room with a slight cold, they said, but
takiDg uj into his confidence, he told us that he
was spooned at to that extent that he just stayed
in bed for the stke of p ace and quietness, “ and
by the hop of the holy kangaroo,” he sadly mur-
muied, “ I am afraid they will find me out here.”
And as we departed we saw a Potts Point maiden
offering the butler untold gold to induce him to
send her a wire about the state of his master’s
health every 20 minutes or ofteuer if he changed
for the worse.
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
Invigorate the system with. Wolff's
SCHNAPPS if you would avoid bilious attacks.,


Personal
Items
“Mr, Childers,” says Reinolds, “is
burly Australian, laden with the weight of privat
gain and leaden incapacity. Everybody is laugh
at him for his ridiculous prosecution of th
Socialists.”
The Czar of Russia, says the Sydney Echo
has been subjecting himself to a severe course o;
Banting,” The poor Czar, whom fear maket
fat, is determined to reduce his bulk at all hazards
And so are the Nihilists.
“ Rabbi Griess has renounced Judaism anc
embraced Christianity.” Rabbi Griess and th
other Jewish converts to Christianity will nc
doubt now lend at 150 per cent.—2 per cent, lowe
than their brethren, who have not yet embrace!
the newer religion.
We were rather upset to hear of the death
°f Baron Ottocar T.T.T. von Moellendorff, an ole
resident of Victoria. But on learning that th
late Baron was last male scion of the Teutoni
houses of Wudiche and Hohengohoen we wen
out and wept bitterly.
From a Bega (N.S.W.) paper:—“Spit a
Henniker Heaton, small fry of the Press I but ou
Of 100,000,000 of people speaking the EngiiSi
language, who but Heaton could make his wa;
from Condon’s shanty store at Wolumla to th'
British Parliament, in a little under 20 years ? ”
The prospectus of the “ Australasian Trus
Management Assurance and Investment Society ’
is advertised. Among the list of directors we see
the names of Mr. John Davies, C.M.G.. and Si
Edward Strickland—which should be sufficient to
guarantee the complete success of the concern.
The Chief Justice of S.A. is anxious abou
the moral condition of juvenile offenders sent to
the hulks. This is the kind gentleman in whose
court not many years ago a man with two pre
vious convictions of a trivial character was
awarded eight years’ imprisonment for stealing
four whitewash-brushes 1
It seems they are going to make Prince
Battenberg a captain in the Guards. We wouldn’t
care much but for this. If, when in the regiment
he should worm the secret out of a former aide oi
Lord Bob’s, and in case of a war with Germany re-
veal to them the key by which they may take the
hitherto impregnable Pinchgut!
Mr. Martin Loughlin, of Victoria, the
wealthy sporting man who once owned Lord
Harry, Suwarrow, and Lone Hand, and who is
reckoned good for a quarter;of a million any day
is a candidate for the Wellington province. Mar-
tin is not a learned man, being much nimbler ai
making a book than at reading one.
C. E. Jones’ leotures in Sydney have been
very badly attended. We may thank the blather-
skites of this country for creating a repugnance
to platform-speaking generally, so that when a
true orator, such as Jones is, appears, people who
don’t know his powers shrug their shoulders and
say, “ Oh, hang spouting—had enough of it.”
The poet Whittier requests the return of
all his letters from his numerous correspondents
with a view to their destruction, so that his
memory after death may not be tarnished by the
injudicious publication of private letters. We re-
oommend this to the notice of Fonetik Abigail,
M.L.A., who might improve on Whittier’s idea by
burning his letters before sending them.
It is alleged that a certain banker who re-
cently ran away disguised in priest’s attire
“ gave himself away ” at Newcastle in a gor-
geously simple manner:—“He came down to
breakfast dressed in his clerical costume on a cer-
tain Friday—and a Friday in Lent above all others.
Being seated at the end of the table farthest from
the carver, that gentleman called out rather
loudly, “ What shall I help you to, Father Rea ? ”
And then the reply came back quite as loudly,
“ Steak and onions, please.”
The Mayor of Cooktown who recently
offered in a good-natured way to take on shore
from a steamer some letters belonging to a pomp-
ous passenger was rewarded thus:—" I was not
aware that it was the custom for Mayors of Cook-
town to carry bottles of grog in their pockets. I
have every respect for your high office, which
you no doubt adorn, but you will pardon me for
my prejudice in refusing to trust valuable docu-
ments with a person who ostentatiously displays a
bottle of brandy sticking out of his pocket. Good
afternoon, sir.”
That cultured periodical, the Ibish and
Australian Wobld (Gunnedah, N.S.W.) cour-
teously remarks:—" Buckshot Foster is dead. We
are not sorry to hear of the death of any such
tirent as W. E. Foster, we are very glad to hear
that he has gone to the land of Hackies where
there is no baok doors.” Then follows this spark-
ling political item:—“Payment of Members is
giving one of our hash the spike, McDougalsays
the payment of members will reduoe his salary £2O
a year. Mack, we would advise you to take a
billet as plough boy on a Cow Farm.”
It is quite too distressing to learn from the
S.M. Herald that Major Eustace Burnaby,
a near relative of plucky IFred. Burnsby,
has accepted the gingerbread billet of London
City Marshal. All that the outside world sees of a
city marshal is when he puts on a ridiculous uni-
form and rides a fat horse in the Lord Mayor’s
show. We shall expect to hear next that a relative
of Colonel Gordon has been selected to fill a dis-
tinguished role in the royal kitchen, or that Hen-
niker Heaton’s uncle has been made a policeman.
It’s awful that the reputations of heroes should
be thus indirectly tarnished.
It is said that Weber, before he attained
much reputation, was much annoyed by a drama-
tic critic named Muller, Vho persistently and
savagely slated him. Wearying of these attacks
Weber at last struck a brilliant idea. He went
away to another district, and caused his sudden
death to be announced, whereupon Muller wrote
an extravagantly eulogistic obituary notice, for
which Weber, to the immense confusion of the
critic, warmly thanked him. The composer and
the critic got on very weli after this. It would
not do for many N.S.W. politicians to try such a
plan unless they wanted to rake in some good libel
paragraphs.
Captain Steele, who came to N.S.W. from
Scotland in the year 1830, died at Port Macquarie
last week at an advanced age. His life was a
chequered one—onoe he was the largest land-
owner in the colony, possessing hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of the finest property, besides ex-
cellent herds of cattle, droves of horses, and llocks
of sheep. Captain Steele also secured many
Government contracts—he wrested from Major
Innes t*e privilege of supplying stores for the
Port Macquarie convicts—and at one time must
have been at least a millionaire. Through pres-
sure of his creditors he lost all his possessions, and
died in penury and rags.
it seems that Miss Lotinga, daughter of
Mrs. Insurance Lotinga, was recently in P<ris
staying at the hotel “ Continental ” (where Hen-
niker puts upb and her beauty was "thetheme
of admiration ” amongst the Frencnmen. Mr. L.
keeps a loan-office in Manchester and another in
London Her late father won a " double event”
on the Derby and Oaks, and started her with the
proceeds. This by the way. But, curiously enough
there has arrived in Sydney a Lotinga, who
has promptly set up in the money-lendiag line in
Blizabeth-street. It would be a whimsical idea to
suppose that this was the fair one’s deceased
father, only he could not well have got through
eo l&ucb gfowad in SUQh ft short time as this \
Acctndmg to an artiole in the Pall Mall,
and copied into the Sydney D.T., the Prince of
Wales Is “a fair, large, fine-looking man,” with
“a curious likeness to his greatest of ancestors,
(sic) Henry VIII.” Let’s see. Henry VIII. spent
about 10 times his income, ate like a pig, drank
like a fish, murdered half a dozen wives, and lost
his head completely when a pretty woman was in
the vicinity. He was also corpulent, and bloated.
Does our treasonable contemporary now think
that Wales resembles his “greatest of ancestors”
very muoh? We have seen Wales. He is a little
squat man who wore an absurd frock coat to hide
his superfluous protoplasm, and was the “dead
image ” of a certain .well-known German-Jewish
Sydney money-lender.
It is funny to imagine the Queen at a
circus, yet she had one rigged up in the Royal
Mews at Windsor, and went to it with “ Bee,” Bat.,
and the usual following. We would have given
worlds to have seen that circus. What did the
clowns say ? Had they the heart to crack their
cast-iron jokes in the face of their Sovereign—t.o
wheeze in the ear of the Princess Louise ? We
suppose that “politics were eschewed” and the
quips and retorts” confined to the subjects of
Art and the “ Scenery Abroad,” as it is in tne con-
versation among the guests in the ante-room prior
to her Majesty’s dinner. By the way, Fleming
Norton once performed before her Majesty, who
expressed herself delighted. But then, after all,
Fleming himself is almost a circus.
Said Rev. Dr. Steel to the Sydney faithful
on Sunday week:—“lt had been a privilege in the
past that those men who worked in the night to
provide the daily paper should have their day of
rest every week; but now there was the Sunday
paper, the production of which rendered Sabbath
labour necessary. The weekly papers, too, were
mostly published towards the end of the week, and
were in all parts of the colony by the- time the
Sabbath came round. This had a tendency to
secularise the Sabbath.” What do you suggest,
Doctor ? Is it that The Bulletin’s nublieation-
day should be regulated by the clergy ? Monday’s
paper is set up on Sunday night; Sunday’s paper
is setup on Saturday night; ergo, the proprietors
of the Sunday Times are much holier than the
Messrs. Fairfax.
Graham Berry’s Black Wednesday victims
goiDg off one by one. E. H. Snellgrove, who held
a post in the Lands Office, Melbourne, in those
riotous old days, has just died up at Brisbane,
PROOF CONCLUSIVE.
MOTHER: “SURE THAT AIN’T YER FATHER WALKING HOME SO EARLY?”
MIKE: “OCH, DEVIL A BIT. FADDER ALWAYS ROLLS DOWN WHEN HE GETS TO
THAT HILL.”
where he was lately employed as clerk In Parlia-
ment House. When hit by the knuckly hand of
Democracy, Snellgrove wisely quitted Victoria.
He would have turned his face to England, had. in
fact, made some notions that way, only that cir-
cumstances stood up before him like a glass-bot-
tled twenty-foot wall. Civil Service lifewas his ideal
and Berry had taught him that there could be no
fixity of tenure in the pursuit in the country of
his first adoption, so to clear from it was an im-
perative necessity. He succeeded in pouring him-
self into a small hole up in Queensland. His abili-
ties were not large, and he, therefore, relied, as a
poverty-frightened man of mediocre power does
well to do, on an ever-vigilant industry. Promo-
tion came, and he arose in the Custom-house.
Promotion again, and he headed a branch in con-
nection with the distilleries. Promotion again,
and he became a Parliamentary clerk. Promotion
again, and he died.
Queenslanders will soon bid good-bye—let
us nope not finally—to one of the most unobtrusive
and most useful members of their judicial bench.
Judge Paul, as we have already announced, is in
ill-health. Government has resolved to relieve
him of duty. Years ago the judge was admitted
to be the most competent man in the colony for
making his way through the outside districts.
The accommodation houses held him in the ten-
derest respect. His name would come first, the
judge a day or two after, and in one day more the
little bill ” would make its appearance. It was
at this stajre the crisis of the hour was ex-
perienced. The judge knew just exactly the price
of everything, and with quiet decision ordered
that bill to be amended. In vain the publican would
pretend that it was the fault of the book keeper.
' Yer Hanner, ’ said one upon one occasion, "ye
don’t know the sorra and vexation of having a
drunken bookkeeper. Here he goes away and
puts ye down twice as much as a common loafing
swagman, whereas when ye was coming I im-
pressed on him that there wasn’t the slightest dif-
ference between yez. fiedad, I’ll go and wallop
him as soon as yer Hanner laves. Maybe it’s this
item yer Hanner objects to ? ” As a general thing,
it was that item, not excluding those before and
after. However, Judge Paul knew how to deal
generously when the right occasion presented
itself. He had simply a constitutional objection
to being “ dona.” He uever acquired a brilliant
reputation in his profession, though on matters
connected with mining disputes and the floating
of companies he had, by personal experience, a
varied assortment of knowledge.
It is well for Mr. James Anthony Froude
that. He had acquired'a good reputation before he
wrote “ Oceana.” Half the inaccuracies and mis-
representations found in that book would destroy
the character of any but a first-rate author. To
read ‘‘Oceana,” anyone would say he had been
over New Zealand. The cool impudence with
which he talks of various places, and what they
reminded him of, could not be surpassed by the
St. Petersburg correspondent of the Croagojingo-
long weekly Wrapper. We did not think greatly
°f his accuracy in respect to persons and places in
N.S.W., but lucubrations about N.Z. prove that
his imagination must have been sluggish when he
was writing about us. All he personally saw of
that country was Rotorua, the Northern Club, and
Kawau. Almost all his time he spent in reading
Greek plays. Yet he goes home, writes his book,
possibly from almanacs and old newspapers, and
poses as a conscientious and personal authority on
things and places at the Antipodes. Froude should
have a conscience—at all events he had one when
he left the church. We don't feel that we would
like to ask the St. Petersburg correspondent of the
Wrapper what he did with Ms conscience. But we
should like to whisper the query into the near ear
of James Anthony, who, at leaving the church,
refunded—listen Charles Strong !—his last two
years’ stipend on the ground that during that
period he had been in a state of doubt as to the
truth of his professions. Is it possible that he
wrote “ Oceana ” without a return of the old com-
plaint ?
Sir Anthony and Lady Musgrave have left,
and Government House in Brisbane is now
tenanted by Sir Arthur Hunter Palmer. Sir
Arthur is a white-headed old man now, but all the
young Are is not dead in him. We remember
seeing him at Beaufort once—a wild run away off
in the Queensland Never Never, where scraggy
trees ana luxuriant grass alternate-scare the wits
out of a gigantic new-chum by the mere audacity
of his English. He was past the age of lighting,
but though the centuries come and go, it is safe to
say Sir Arthur will never pass the climacteric of
resonant and sulphur-smelling vocables. From
the day a Tipperary man threw him into a wash-
PO9I for his ‘‘gab,” til), a couple of weeks ago,
Chief Justice jLilley told him to step down from
the witness-box, “as the Court did not think he
had discretion enough to be ohargeable with the
folly of his language,” Sir Arthur has been given
to speak first and think after. Perhaps his being
an Irishman accounts to some extent for that. Sir
Arthur, as may be inferred, was always a staunch
partisan. He was a Liberal at heart but a Conser-
vative at pocket. _He still wants the poor to
become rich—but without in any way encroaching’
upon the wealthy. His convictions are perfectly
nonest. His head was made in two compartments
with a brick partition between. He takes turns of
occupying them. Hence he has firm believers in him
at both extremes of the social system. Of late years
he has filled the office of President of the Queens-
land Legislative Council, and even in that sphere of
usefulness the old station-manager qualities come
frequently to the front. As Lieutenant-Governor
he will be something of a study for philosophical
persons who delight in observing what changes of
position effect in certain classes of minds.
Notwithstanding the fillip which the patro-
nage of Governor Carington gives to art mat-
ters in Sydney, the enthusiasm for that sort of
culture appears to be much more genuine in Mel-
bourne. We notice that the exhibition held lately
in connection with the Victorian National Gallery
School of Arts, under the directorship of Mr.
Folingsby, was looked upon by the public in the
spirit which alone testifies that the artist is really
appreciated. That is, the competition for the pur-
chase of pictures was brisk. Four days before
the inauguration of the exhibition, 18 pictures
were actually bought by parties in no way associ-
ated with what is called the encouragement of
native talent. Three years ago we drew attention
in these columns to the promise displayed in a
picture at that time exhibited by a young amateur
from the Kelly country. It is gratifying to note
that Mr. Longstaff, the youth in question, is ful-
filling expectations. His “Motherless” comes in
for very high praise indeed, both from the com-
mittee and the public. One enthusiastic writer
classes it with “ The Widower,” by Fildes, which
now hangs in the Sydney Art Gallery. Mr. Long-
staff has had very little technical training. His
people are in an humble way of trade in Sheppar-
ton, and while young he had to bear a hand in
work uncongenial to the artistio soul. But his
idle hours- -and in such a place as Shepparton,
the busiest man has idle hours—were given wholly I
and with enthusiasm to the pencil. His work is '
not characterised by mere technical completeness.
It crosses the dividing line and gets into the
domain of invention. He is a pale, delicate young
man, but if health keeps up, there is every likeli-
hood that he will bo of the few natives who
make a mark in art. 1
Political
Points
A Bill is before the Commons to abolish
primogeniture.
The steam lauc'i “ Carrington ” cost
N.S.W. £l4OO. What was her name before she
changed owners ?
In the Commons, the other night, out of
365 members present 135 voted for the reduction of
the Queen’s Civil list.
An Act of Parliament, now-a-days, is best
directed when it suggests inaction. Most legisla-
tion is muddle. We have spoken.
“iThe country,” says an English journal,
“ is advancing to a revolt against hereditary asses.
In 10 years or less the House of Lords will be like
the Ark—a memory of a vanished marvel.”
Since 1855, saysLabouchere, the peers have
drawn £130,000,000, in salaries, from the British
people; in the same period each Duke has had on
an average 56 relatives living on the public Ex-
chequer.
We have seen on the throne (says that
courteous newspaper Reynolds), first, George the
Third, a lunatic; secondly, George the Fourth, an
unmitigated reprobate ; thirdly, William the
Fourth, a fool; and now Yicteria, a miserly re-
cluse.
When in the Commons on sth March last,
166 members voted for the abolition of the Lords a
cool, hard, clear-toned voice exclaimed, “The
Writing on the Walll” All the newly-created
baronets in the House voted for the hereditary
principle.
The Wide Bay News, edited by William
Keith, condemns the imbecility of Jennings’ New
Hebrides’ despatch. Such of our readers as are
anxious to bring about the annexation of the
South Pole will do well to place themselves in
communication with William. This continent is
already so crowded that we haven’t space to stand
up in, and we must get room somewhere.
A fact not generally known— That the
King of Greece draws £4OOO a year from the Eng-
lish Civil List. The Grand Old Man can settle
what the papers love to call “ The Greek Ques-
tion ” at any minute, by threatening to knock off
the royal allowance. Another thing not generally
known is—why the King of Greece gets that
£4OOO. Even the monarch himself is hazy on that
point.
London is to have a new bridge over the
Thames at the Tower, and a petition, signed by
4000 citizens, has been presented to the Common
Council asking that it may be made in England.
Ye gods I Freetrade England, the home of the
arts, the paradise of the artificer in metal, the
workshop of the world I Why, the Englishman,
unless he protect himself against foreign labour
will yet chop wood for the German and the China-
man.
Cardinal Moran, in a most eloquent address
to the Hibernians of Sydney, attributed the
brightening prospects of the Home Rule party to
the fidelity of the people to the Catholic Church.
Of course, it is useless to tell the cardinal that the
political concessions to the Irish are due, not to
Roman Catholicism, but to the spread among the
great exponents of English thought of those
humane principles which point to a time when
churches will be regarded as superfluous.
An ex-Fijian missionary is a candidate for
the Queensland Parliament. If he succeeds he
will find an extensive field for missionary work in
that weird Witenagemote. He will discover that
the ferocious Fijian is a gentle and docile creature
compared to the average Queensland politician.
The former may be converted with a little time
and trouble; the latter never repents—until he
has been 10 minutes in Gehenna. This statement
also applies to a considerable number of our own
statesmen in a small way.
A new Homestead Bill submitted in Ohio
and lowa proposes to give to any citizen over 31
years of age, and the head of a family, on satisfac-
tory evidence that neither he nor his family are
owner of personal property above the value of
£3OO, and that he desires land for the purpose of
residing upon and cultivating it, a parcel of land,
not to exoeed 30 acres, to be his so long as he
resides upon it and cultivates it. Now then, Mr
Heydon, with your “Land and Industrial Alli-
ance,” what do you say to that 2
Said Bradlaugh in the Commons on March
9:—“ The British people were a law-abiding people
on the whole, and in the labour movement here
the large majority of them had shown that they
were patient, billing to submit to authority, and
to wait for reform. But there was an oratory
more potent than any that could address the
House—the oratory of hunger, which was listened
to without any reason in the judgment that was
given; and if the House left hunger to speak when
they might anticipate the appeal, on them would
fall the penalty and the shame.”
Sir John Macdonald, of Canada, on Im-
perial Federation Imperial Federation is
utterly impracticable. We could never agree to
send a number of men over to England to sit in
Parliament there and vote away our rights and
privileges. I am, as this question goes, up to the
handle a Home Ruler. We will govern our own
country. We will put on the taxes ourselves. If
we choose to misgovern ourselves we will do so,
and we do not desire England, Ireland, or Scotland
to tell us we are fools. We will say, ‘lf we are
fools, we will keep , our folly to ourselves.’ You
will not be the worse for it, and we will not be the
worse for any folly of yours.” Listen, ye Jingo
dreamers I
Mr. Joe Chamberlain is rather over-doing
the thing when he insists, according to a late
cablegram, on a separate Parliament for that piece
of Ireland called Ulster. Ulster must be a long
way behind the Australian colonies if it thinks
that all people now-a-days are to be classed as Pro-
testants or Catholics. To us the thiDg looks like
classifying sensible men as knock-kneed or bandy-
legged. We care not one rap about the distinc-
tions between Orangemen and Papists. Every man
is welcome here who will be fairly honest. So it
should be in Ulster. Mr. Chamberlain’s proposals
are of the Brummagem order. Irishmen are quite
able to manage their own affairs without reference
to ;Pope Peooi, or Elizabeth, or William of blessed
memory.
During the late Russian scare Field-Mar-
shal Sargood, of tho Victorian Defence Depart-
ment, proposed that the Government should buy
a drove of debilitated hulks which were rotting
about the bay, so that they might have something
to sink at the port entrance if war broke out The
hulks were bought-for £5700. War didn’t burst
forth, and the Government were left with live old
tubs on its hands that no mau with a fragment of
conscience would trust his mother-in-law in. One
of them settled down a while ago and is now
under the blue waters of Hobson’s Bay in the
occupation of a merman and his wife and family.
The remaining four were sold last week,
realised £1464, one being bought in by the patriot o
vendor for £6OO.
North Queenslanders are so extensively
“ridden over” by Government officiUs, that It’S


no wonder that one of the chief factors in the
North’s desire for political separation from the
South is the presumption and petty-tyranny of a
Brisbane-appointed Civil service. As an example
of the kind of thing which obtains in the North,
take the case of the “ Admirable Crichton,” of
Port Mangrove, who “ holds it ” thus: He is—sub-
collector of customs, land commissioner, harbour
and pilot master, J.P., and acting-P.M., chairman
of nospital committee, secretary of ohurch com-
mittee, secretary of school committee, secretary
of cemetery, trustee of School of Arts, and—lay-
reader. It is a pleasing thing to see a man thus
immolate himself on the altar of duty.
According to the Pali. Mall, at an
emigration conference iu London lately ‘‘papers
read upon the condition of tee Australian labour-
market expressed very contradictory opinions as
to emigrants' prospects iu the respective colonies.”
Which remiads us that one of the works to b a dis-
tributed at the Indo-Colonial Exhibition in Lon-
don is “NS.W. in 1881,” and another is “The
Industries of N.S.W.” Both of these works are
eminently calculated to hold out “ false hopes ” to
intending emigrants. The latter book, for in-
stance, gives glowing accounts of the magnitude
of the local iron-industry, which, to all intents and
purposes, is dead as Julius Cnesar. Anyone who
emigrates to Australia on tne strength of the
volume in question will have been brought here
on false pretences.
A New Caledonian paper observes that one
of the greatest delusions young communities live
under is that their respective Parliaments are the
worst-mannered in civilisation. In support, a
bird's eye view of a late sitting of the Hungarian
Diet is given. Baron Bukavina, a member, arises
and puts his tongue out at all and sundry on the
Opposition benches He is remonstrated with. He
then puts a thumb to his nose, attaches the other
hand, and waggles the fingers vigorously. M.
Popovie, the President, appeals to lum to conduct
himself more decently The Baron informs him
that he (the President) is the head of a company
of brutes. At this stage the House determines to
assert its dignity and passes a vote expelling the
Baron for 60 sittings. The Baron takes up his hat,
walks to the door, and, turning round, spits three
times at the assemblage of senators.
When Sir Henry Parkes argues that tne
prosperity of a colony depends on the high char-
acters of the people who first come to it from the
parent country, he is strangely forgetful of the
teacoings of experience. Prophecies about the
New Hubridf s are checkmated by Australian facts.
They are also in the teei h of political philosophy.
It is nearly 60 years since Samuel Taylor Cole-
ridge, with France, England, Germany, and Hol-
land before him, proved that the character of
colonial dependencies stood in inverse ratio to the
character of the parent people. “The best people
ia the mother country ill generally be the worst
in the colonies; the worst at home will be the
test abroad.” These were his words. His main
position was—and a man with Sir Henry s defer-
ence to great names will, no doubt, find food for
reflection in the fact—that colonists of a well-
governed country will degenerate, and that those
of an ill-governed country will improve.
A very noticeable feature about the Eight
Hours’ Demonstration in Melbourne last week
was the unenthusiastic, even collected, manner in
which that beDign shade of royalty, Governor
Loch, was greeted by the workmen—who “ didn’t
cheer worth a bone button.” The local dailies
tried to glos3 over this apathy with the excuse
that the men did not know where his smooth-
tongued mightiness was located, but the excuse
won’t do. When the vice-regal carriage was
driven through the surging crowd in Swanston-
Street a feeble wail went forth from the throats of
several hoys who wanted to yell anyhow, they
didn’t care at whom; but that could not be mag-
nified into he irty vociferation even by a Herald
reporter. The aboriginal (he was well washed,
and a bit of a dude) gesticulating from his honour-
able position among the old pioneers, received
more acclamation than Lord and Lady Loen, the
Mieses Loch, the Masters Loch, and the gorgeous
aide-de-camp. This is hard, but true.
Earl Spencer—the much-detested “ Red
Jack ’’—who for some years administered the
Irish Government, and has ever maintained that
Ireland can only be successfully ruled by her
own people, has, according to the cablegrams,
turned up as an able champion of tne
Home Rule proposals of Mr. Gladstone. On the
other hand, our old friend, Robert Lowe, is bitterly
opposed to Home Rule. And this man lived in
Australia! But then cur Bob has been made a
lord by a Sovereign. It should be remembered
that a good deal of Bob’s rents are drawn from
Sydney where Home Rule waxes fat and kicks
even to Republicanism* la he looking around for
some Irish investment where more rents may be
squeezed out by a great British army supported
by the British taxpayer? Js be afraid we are
about to touch up the absentees with a property-
tax, instead of taking care at our own expense
that Bob’s interests here are well guarded ?
The farmers of the Grafton district voiced
the indignation they feel at the proposed exemp-
tion of agricultural produce from tne ad valorem
duties at the Grafton Theatre last week. The
meeting was tboroughjy representative and its
members unanimous n urging protection for the
farmers. If farmers and those dependent on them
are alive to their interests, meetings of a similar
character will be held ail over the colony. It is
absurd to say that N.B.W. will not grow wheat
equal to any in Australia. We have the country
aud we have the climate, and the imposition of
ad valorems would stimulate agriculture so that
fhere need be no necessity for paying for thou-
fjande of bushels of breadstuffs from oolonies pro-
tested by tdejr tariffs against any other importa-
tions of products whjeh N-S- W. could make to re-
store the balance of trade. Farmers are prover-
bially slow to move, but they deserve to suffer if
they allow this opportunity to pass unheeded,
“ Lord R. Montague, in a letter regarding
his withdrawal from the Church of Rome, writes
that he wish* sto explain that he left the Church
fin June 19, 1882, after givlDg his reasons at length
fa a lettor to Cardinal Manning—namely, the un-
Christian end even revolutionary principles pro-
mulgated by the Cardinal and R.G bishops of the
British Empire, and § openly inculcated by the
priests in Ireland and elsewhere.” The Irish
priests don’t advise their flocks to pay impossible
rents and starve. Hence the skedaddlement of
this titled fraud This Montague man will doubt-
less find in the bosom of the Established Church,
with its fat livings and its adoration of the
nobility ” and the much-propertied classes in
general, the sort of religion taught by Christ the
socialist. And were that same Christ again on
earth, he would be preached against by the Angli
can Bishops and sent to gaol by the Tories, a set of
fsrsons who are only sorry that the time has gone
y when their order could pillory and cut the ears
Off all discontented plebeians.
Labofloherp on tbe hereditary principle
In general and the British peers in partjcular:-
“It did not follow that beptuse a man was clever
his son would also be clever; and in England they
proceeded on a wrong principle altogether with
regard to hereditary legislators. Tbt.y should
have a breed of them. (Laughter.) They should
find the most intelligent persons in the country,
take them when young, carefully train them, and
Wi.en they reached full maturity, marry them to
Girton College girls—(laughter)—and then perhaps
—he only sdi perhaps - they might hope lor some
sort of result (Mure laughter.) The best cure for
admirers ol the House ol Lords was to visit that
ohamber when it was sitting and a great debate
was on. They would see one peer speaking to
half-a-dozen others, who would sit till near dinner
hour and then vanish like ghosts. (Laughter) He
admitted that there were ahle men in the House
ot Lords, but that did no f .make it an able House,
ftoy more than Africa could be sail to be inhabited
Ry W'.itp men because a lew Aloinos were there.”
(daughter.)
As bearing upon the question of Cijuroh
jJisestablishment in Wales, the Pall mall
gazette quotes the following figures:— ’ In Mont-
Koamryshire, the population is 5851, the average
enurch attendance during January was 427, and
the value per annum of the livings is £2884. In
ftiQn the figures were respectively
0W6,122, and £2264, In Pembrokeshire, they were
2148,10. and £7G9. Or, in percentages, in Mont-
gomeryshire 4 per cent, of the population attend,
at a cost to the tithe-payers of £ll each; in Car-
narvonshire, 2 per cent., at a cost of £2O; in Pem-
brokeshire, 46 per cent., at a cost of £80.” This
return shows very clearly that the Welsh are not
inclined to greatly over-estimate the importance
of the ministrations of the aristocratic loafers who
make a remarkably good thiog out of the livery
of the Lord. The division on Mr. Dilwynn’s motion
for Disestablishment shows that the time has
nearly come when this system ot clerical robbery
will be upset—the white-chokered brigands be
cast one on the mercies of a calculating world,
which avers that " if a man will not work neither
shall he eat ” The only wonder is that such a
system of State swindling in the name of the
Gospel Bhould have existed for so long.
“ There is a disgraceful association in
London called the London Missionary Society. Its
object is to drain off mocey which might go to the
support and eiucation of the poor and miserable
in Eagland, instead of providing breeches and
beer for the noble f avage. This fussy body spends
yearly hundreds of thousands of pounds earned by
British workmen in sending missionaries into out-
of-the-way places, where the people are infinitely
better off, infinitely more healthy, infinitely more
contented, than thousands upon thousands of our
own wretched population The Chancellor of the
Exohfquer ought really to look to this matter,
and impose a hoavy tax on these mad missionary
contributions. You find men like the Archbishop
of Canterbury stalking about the country in order
to preach charity sermons for missionaries’ enter-
prises. Here are his own countrymen, more
deeply in the mire of vice, degradation, and misery
than most savages. Where is the crusade on be-
half of our fellow-citizens by the parliamentary
bishops? If old tea-drinking spinsters or tearful
widows are able to afford so much money for the
reform of the inhabitants of Sze chuen and Mate-
bele, they ought to be forced to contribute a
larger share to the burdet-s of tbs State in which
they are permitted to live.— Reynolds.
The New Hebrides hysteria is so epidemlo
that ’tis hard to say who has it worst. Presby-
terian parsons we can sympathise with. Naturally
enough, they have come to regard the heathen of
those islands as their legitimate prey, and their
distress in the present crisis is understandable.
But for certain of the Australian Natives’ “Pat-
riotic” Associations we should cordially recom-
mend a little soothing mixture, or—that best of all
treatments for hysteria - cold water, fresh from
the Press. This latter, alas! may be looked for in
vain. The wildest ravings appear to find most
favour with the Sydney and Melbourne dailies,
THE YOUNG FELLER.
THE OLD FELLOW: “SAY, YOUNG FELLER, WHEN YER GET THROUGH FEEDIN’ OFF
ER THAT ERE CANE, YOU JEST PUT IT BACK FROM WHERE YER TUK IT;
THAT’S YER OWN THE OTHER BIDE OF YER.”
whose chief aim apparently is to lure the young
Australian into a belief in his deml-godism. How
well their efforts are succeeding is instanced by
mapy recent public utterances. The Mayor of
Melbourne, presiding over some New Hebrides
hysterics at the Town Hall, said: “He would con-
clude by stating that all the speakers who would
address the meeting were of Australian birth—
a fact which augured well for the future of Austra-
lasia.” Now, what the Dickens did the worthy
Mayor mean? He didn’t know. Neither did the
reporters, but they peppered “applauses” and
“loud applauses” into that paragraph on prin-
ciple. Now, suppose the resident Frenchmen of
Australasia called a meetiag at a Town Hall and
monopolised the oratory. In that case, we sup-
pose, the “future of Australasia” would be as
good as squelched.
At a reoent meeting called in Kempsey,
N.B.W„ with a view of presenting Mr. R. B. Smith,
M.P., with an address on his departure to glisten
in London, we learn by a local paper that “ Mr.
Woolford had much pleasure in moving the first
resolution, viz.: ‘ That Mr. Smith has the hearty
concurrence of this meetiDg in his projected trip
to England,’” and another patriot remarked: " he
agreed that Mr. Smith’s ideas will be enlarged as
to bridges, bar-harbours, and so forth.” Here is
satire for you! But a jingle!—
It is unfashionable to lavish any sympathy
whatever on the Australian squatters, but just
now their way is just a trifle harder than that of
the average transgressor. The wool-market
shows no decidod signs of improvement, fat cattle
and sheep come in to a heart-breaking market,
money is daily becoming tighter, station values
are falling every month so that the bank-man-
ager’s private “sweating-room” seem to be the
only abiding-place of the impoverished pastoral-
ists, and in some districts the drought is clearing
every hoof off the run, while to add to the trouble
in N.S.W., a land-tax threatens to act as the last
straw. The impost on incomes need not concern
many of the station-holders unless things rapidly
become easier, for a very little more of the pre-
sent trouble will give the average squatter’s run
to the bank and his former income to a syn-
dicate. The squatter of to-day is not by any
means the bloated millionaire which he is repre-
sented to be by each Domain Demoßthenes. We
personally know a dozen squatters who, rich men
a few years ago, have come to irretrievable smash.
Among them is one firm of good manly fellows,
whose names are synonymous with open-handed-
ness and fair dealing, and who, not so very long
since, could command at five minutes’ notice any
amount of money up to a quarter of a million.
Now they are hopelessly ruined and find them-
selves hard-up for a £lO note. No wonder the
banks are paying 10,15, 20, and 25 per cent, divi-
dends. We all know the state of a country in
which the pawnbroker does the best business.
The cabled secession of Mr. Trevelyan
Chief Secretary for Scotland, from the Gladstone
Ministry, came at an unfortunate moment for the
Highland crofters. For the present, presumably,
nothing further will be heard of Mr. Trevelyan’s
Bill to Amend the Law relating to Tenure of
Land by Crofters. This is the more to be re-
gretted, because, in his introductory speech, the
Secretary hinted at the desirability of establishing
some system of Btate aid for the crofters. It ap-
pears that the Irish fishermen have been immensely
benefited by means of the Sea Fisheries Fund and
Irish Reproductive Fund, which advanced some
£70,000 or £BO,OOO for the purchase of nets, repairs
to smacks, &c. Nearly the whole of the money so
advanced had been promptly refunded, said Mr.
Trevelyan, and his Irish experience had per-
suaded him that the system which worked so satis-
factorily in one place might be judiciously tried
in another. Yet this same Mr. Trevelyan quar-
relled with chief for proposing, in his Irish
Land Purchase Bill, a grand scheme of State aid
for an impoverished people. The gentleman who
approved of lending £70,000 to some fisherman to
enable them to get a living on the sea, disapproved
of lending £50,000,000 to a whole people to enable
them to get a living on the land. But there is no
inconsistency in such conduct. Mr. Trevelyan is,
doubtless, true to his principles in objecting to
any Bill which would deprive the wealthy classes
of their dominating power over the soil, and
restore it to its rightful owners. He was not in-
disposed to give a helping hand to the toilers of
the sea, because none of his own class had “ vested
interests ”in the ocean. However, small as might
have been any mercies vouchsafed to the crofters
by Trevelyan, they would have been thankful for
them. Now, we fear, they will have to wait a
while longer before saying “ grace.”
Victoria has won the race for the million
of population. On March 31, she had 1,001,756 in-
habitants, 9881 of whom were added to her as an
increase for the quarter ending 31st March. This,
too, in spite of our efforts to erowd up N.S.W.,
and our bringing out immigrants by the ship-load,
at the public cost. The younger colony has no
system of state-aided immigration, so that all her
additions to population from abroad have volun-
tarily come to her at their own cost. This seems
to show tnat people who have the means to emi-
grate deliberately choose a colony which is far-
sighted enough to encourage the establishment of
industries within its own borders. No amount of
sophistry from the Freetrade-run mad Sydney
Press can get over this fact. In 1836 Victoria had
a population of 177 souls. An increase of 1,001,579
in 50 years is a solid argument in favour of the
policy of almost the smallest, but by far the most
energetic, Australian colony that will take a lot
of explaining away. At the present moment we
do not know what the population of N.S.W. is,
and the returns will not be made up till the 30th
June. Judging from the lightning-like speed
with which our Government reports are laid be-
fore the public, they may, probably, be published
somewhere about next Christmas. Mr. Hayter’a
return giving full information as to population
up to 31st March is dated 2Qth April. In it he says:
“N.S.W. will probably have overtaken her sister
in numerical strongth by the date named ” (30th
4une). But where is the N.S.W. Government
statist? It seems as though we had to depend on
Victoria for information regarding our own
affairs. We have no trustworthy statistics regard-
ing the present state of the colony. In faot, one
of the books which is to be distributed at the
Indian and Colonial show is “N.S.W. in—1881,” a
statistic only live years old. The natural infer-
ence to Englishmen will be that ’Bl is the best year
that N.S.W. can boast.
“BOUND TO SHINE.”
Let not these little rustic gibes,
With anger make that large heart throb I
Fear not the darts of hungry scribes,
For you are bound to shine, O Bob I
We don’t know how you’ll shine, but still
We ’v@ an impression that you will.
When you arrive, the other “ push ”
Perchance won’t look exceeding small;
A Cupid straight from out the bush—
Won’t Stuart squirm, Bob ?—not at all!
You’d go where they oan't penetrate—
Your “ gamp ” will pap you at the
You’re bound to qhine where’er you roam;
With you on favour all will look,
For people really think, at home,
That you discovered Captain Cook!
And, really, though it is not true,
We think, Bob, you believe so too!
THE ACRES AND THE HANDS.
The earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness thereof,
Saith God’s most Holy Word;
The water hath fish, and the land hath flesh,
And the air hath many a bird;
And the soil is teeming o’er all the earth,
And the earth hath numberless lands;
Yet millions of hands want acres,
While millions of acres want hands I
Sunlight, and breezes, and gladsome flowers,
Are over the earth spread wide;
And the good God gave these gifts to men—
To men who on earth abide;
Yet thousands are toiling in poisonous gloom.
And shackled with iron bands,
While millions of hands want aores,
And millions of acres want hands 1
Never a foot hath the poor man here,
To plant with a grain of corn;
And never a plat, where his child may ctili
Fresh flow’rs in the dewy morn.
The soil lies fallow—the woods grow rankl
Yet idle the poor man stands;
Oh I millions of hands want acres,
And millions of acres want hands I
’lis writ that “ Ye shall not muzzle the ox
That treadeth out the com I”
But, behold! ye shackle the poor man’s limbs,
That have all earth’s burdens borne;
The land is the gift of a bounteous God,
And to labour His Word commands;
Yet millions of hands want acres,
And millions of acres want hands!
Who hath ordained that the Few should hoard
Their millions of useless gold?
And rob the earth of its fruits and flowers,
While profitless soil they hold?
Who hath ordained that a parchment scroll
Shall fence round miles of lands,
When millions of hands want acres.
And millions of acres want hands!
’Tis a glaring lie on the face of day—
This robbery of men’s rights;
’Tis a lie, that the Word of the Lord disowns—
’Tis a curse, that burns and blights!
And ’twill burn and blight, till the People rise,
And swear, while they break their bandß,
That the hands shall henceforth have
acres,
And the acres henceforth have hands!
—A. J. H. Duganne, in the Chidstian Socialist.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a great relief in
Rheumatism, infinitely superior to braady or
whisky.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Bail
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 60)4 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
When a genuine article such as Wolfe’s
Schnapps has earned a good name for itself
mitations spring up.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EYERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-straef, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE! ” ,
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES;
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werthoim Sewing
/V T , I-j
The “ Hapsburg” Planets
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AMD COMPANY.
THE " HAYDN *' ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AMD COMPANY,
FOB ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcadei
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHARLEIttONT et CIE.,
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are no#
open in the Royal Arcade.
Messrs. C. & Co. have engaged an efficient staff
of Artists for all branches In art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have been trained in the
leading European establishments.
Mr. Thomas C. Cleave (who has had the ditf-
tinguishedhonour of photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H.s the
Prince and Princess of Wales, many members of
the Royal Family, also the Prince Imperial and
other notables) will persjnally superintend the
studio work.
Our portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
and Excellent, and we invite inspection of ouY
work exhibited in the Vestibule, leading to ou?
Studies,
CHARLEMONT et Cl*.


A VARIEG ITED VILLAGE.
The old Sydney Exhibition Building is
once more to tne fore at a place of amusement. It
Is now a Japanese Village. The last time we went
there it was a Soudan Eaeampment, at which girls
who smelt of peppermint lozenges pestered you to
buy cardboard cigar-cases at a crown apiece: and
the time before that it was a German Fair. There
was more gloom in both these exhibitions than in
a shipwreck; but for an entertainment which
melancholy had wholly “marked for her own,”
commend us to the show that Preceded them—
the "time-honoured Bartlemy Fair.” The per- ;
formers in that sorry spectacle are all before us
We see again the beery Beadle, the crumpled
Columbine, the sodden “ Sailor,” and the shivering
“ Swell.” We mind us of the high trapeze upon
which Gonzago was to perform punctually at 3
and 8 daily, but the multiplicity of whose fishing
engagements prevented him ever appearing 1 in
our ears, even now, are ringiog the howls of the
spectators and the curses of the stall-keepers, the
swishing of the rain and the banging of tne gong.
It was a unique entertainment that! For real,
healthy, undiluted amusement, "viewing a body ”
at a coroner’s inquest was nothing to it.
* • *
But Mr. W. Pemberton Willard has
altered the order of things altogether. He has
brought a show here, which is so full of humours
that it curls you up with merriment every five
minutes. From the time we arrived in Japan
until the moment we took our departure, we
were on the broadest of grins—the whole thing is
so sublimely, yet unconsciously funny. It struck
us, before we had been in Japan long, that the
natives there are poor hands at understanding
their own language. Near the vestibule we en-
countered an elabjrately-attired Japanese gentle-
man, and wishing to know whereabouts the tea-
nymphs were, we addressed him as follows: -
Awi gatno buhi curoo amoy,” but he said “ he
didn’t live there; ” similarly when we encouotered
him later inside the building, and remarked
cautiously— ‘Shuri bagee cooliah bob,” he said
“ he was out.” Likewise, when we treated one of
the native workmen to phrases with a choice
Nagasaki drawl, instead of letting fly in Yoko-
hama’s silvery tongue he would look as if he
didn’t understand, or else murmur something
in a guttural voice, which was not easily under-
derßtood, but which evidently signified that he
didn’t want any “ —-tomfoolery.” We did our
best to be conversational, and if we were not suc-
cessful, we can’t help it. We know ours is the
right Japanese, because we got it out of a book.
* * *
Speaking of the Japanese Village, as a
village, it has many peculiarities which at once
strike the observant traveller. You may scan the
Bhops on both sides of the street as closely as you
can and you will not see the sign of a barber;
neither is there a cook-shop present, nor (fancy b
a public-house. But as it was explained to us
that th« village was not nearly finished on the day
of opening, we expect when we go again in a week
or two, to see at least added a barber’s shop and a
restaurant; if not a lock-up and a pub. But
while there is no native depot for refreshment, it
must not be thought that the wants of the huDgry
Briton are neglected. Far from it. When we had
been about an hour at the village, it suddenly
struck us tbaL feeling hungry, we would do
well to order a gaudy but inexpensive oollation
composed exclusively of Japanese dishes. We
proceeded, therefore, to the refreshment depart-
ment, and accosting a timid young woman in
black behind a long counter, we told her we were
hungry, and asked her what she could give us. “ A
meat pie,” she suggested mildly. We sank in a
limp state upon a form. "And, perhaps, you
would like a bottle of ginger-beer ? '’ she said,
in tones that were palpitating but persua-
sive. And she gravely placed these rollick-
ing viands before us, not psreeiviog that
the sight of the meat-pie curled us all round
the leg of the table. Great Smith! meat-pie .and
ginger-beer—in Japan. Later on, in order to be
revengeful on some one, we told a friend that it
was all right. They hsd got the hang of the
Japanese cuisine. His eyes lit up at this, and he
started off for the loDg counter. He went up
boldly, and ordered bird’s-nest soup and toasted
quail, and was seen two minutes later grow.ing
over a bath-bun and a cup of coffee!
* * *
To tell the truth, the Japanese Village
doesn’t look half so much like a village as it does
like a bazaar. There is nothing really realistic
about the appointments of it-not even a pump.
We suggested to gentleman connected in some
way with the show .that he ought to get signs
up, such as "Walk slowly over crossings,”
or "Trams stop here,” in Japanese, to improve
the illusion, but, strange to say, he reoeived our
remarks with derision bordering upon contumely.
The show consists of two rows of shops which
areas primitive in conception as they are uni-
form in design. They are simply small platforms
spread with blankets and covered in on two sides
with paper. On the platforms the various artizans
and artists work like tailors, seated on as many
folds of blanket as the nature of their labour
allows of, and " making believe ” to an appalling
extent. But they are no more to be drawn out
than the sea-serpent. There is a man who manu-
factures iniaid sticks there, and while at work on
one of them some wag pointed to it and askt-d him
if it were a telegraph-pole. The workman only
looked; he made no reply. As he could not reply
with his foot, he was silent. All this could be read
in one angry flash of his beady black eyes. We
don’t say everybody could read it, mind you; but
we have a turn that way. We don’t know how we
caught it. At Lewis Scott’s lectures, perhaps—or
at the circus! Thunder! When Gus at. Leon as
Dick Turpin first sees the pursuing trooper, he
flashes a whole volume with one eye aione, and
keeps the other one in rest on purpose to wink at
the village maidens with.
* # *
There was one “mechanical ” (if he can be
so called) who intrigued us greatly. We are in
dined to think he was either the poet or the his-
torian of the party-one or both. Anyhow, he
had a monstrous pile of "slips ” before him which
he kept gravely pasting on to a huge roll,
which, once "paid our,” would oertatnly have
peached to Patagonia. We, at once, on having
taken stcek of him, endeavoured to strike up an
acquaintance with a brother writer. "Copy, sir,”
we said, Bharply,, counterfeiting (not a bit like it!)
the voice of the printer's youth. But he didn't
even look up. “Can you give us the first feur
>lips of the ’Royal notice, please?” we enquired.
He glanced up and said something like, " Lukoord
yo Jo awaya.” We told him we symDathisvd with
him, and had been that way ourselver, but he went
on with bis pasting and vouchsafed no other re-
mark. We left him smiling sedately, an-i vaguely
wondered how many millions of lies were wrapped
up ii those thousands ot ixi.es of paper. One
thing we notici d with a in ay. Each man bad
before him in bis shop t xqueite samples of the
work at which he was ail appeared
(obe busy upon the very cor mitcementof the
things they exhibit! d. This btrvck us at the
painter s particularly. He exhibited some de-
lightful samples, while be was 11 nnlug butterfl .es
on wa'l-paper, some of which r s mbledahawk,
and some a windmill. But, pertap , r.«? wa* reserv-
ing his strength for some future oucasienl
* ♦ *
When there is nothing going on up in the
stage, a great attraction is a tea-divrn adminis-
tered by three or four Japanese oda'isques
grouped upon a raised plattorm. These giris, if
not alone worth the price of aamissioD, form cer-
tainly an hilarious feature of the entertainment.
They are all habited, elegantly, in the most
fashionable "gowns’’ of their country, colours
varied, but each frock most exquisitely and ela-
borately embroidered They performed in their
stockings, and when you wanted a “cup of tea,”
writhed towards you, somehow, with something in
a little bo *1 about the size of a thrush’s egg slit in
two. This is tea. It is pure white, and if it tastes
at all, has decidedly the Ilavour of a tea whoso
ghost has departed, or of a tea that has departed
and left its ghost behind The ladies are everyone
handsome, and they stem to erjoy their part of
the performance great,ly. They are all smiles and
amiability, and hand round the liliputian goblets
at a surprising rate. Sometimes one plays on the
zither, and then sadness reigns and the tea-drinkers
*• get.” We never heard anything sound like th, se
zithers since Fulton organised a Chinese opera
here, and one of the company played a solo on a
banjo, the head of which was only the tiz3 of a
walnut. It's a pity they let her play, though; she
would be much better employed, while the other
girls are ser f ing out the tea, in handing round the
toast.
* * *
Thestage is an immense arrangement, the
proscenium of which uprears itself nearly to the
roof. Upon this platform, and upon ropes and
round poles disport themselves a company, the
like of which has certaiuly not been seen in Syd-
ney. Unless the Japs are up ropss or poles, how-
ever it is difficult, in a general way, to see wbat
they are about, unless you emulate the example
of tne rest of the company, and stand upon a chair.
You can climb up into the gallery, certainly, and
get a glimpse, but the view you obtain is hazy and
uncertain. To conclude, there is a great deal of
enjoyment to be got out of the village, and when
you go to Japan, there are two things you can
always depend upon procuring in their purely
native state—we allude to meat pies, and girger-
beer.
The calm, soothing, but still invigorating
effect is peculiar only to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for Wolfe’s.
One of our judges spoke pretty sharply
the other day about the undue number of com-
mitta’s to higher courts meant to save magistrates
trouble. But those magistrates have a lot of very
unsavoury work, and they cannot go far wrong in
committing doubtful cases to the superior courts.
Juries sometimes give questionable verdicts, and
not always unanimous ones, but if they had to try
the merits of such a busiaees establishment as
Bray Bros, China and Glass Importers, Un-
doubtedly their verdict would be worthy of the
best patronage and support of the general Public.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a delightful beverage
as agreeable to the taste as its properties are bene-
ficial to the health.
THEATRE royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnjbr and Musgrov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Gen.l- Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
EIGHTH WEEK and Continued Success of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUSGhOVK’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
TO NIGHT, THURSDAY, APRIL 29,
at a quarter to 8 precisely,
the thrilling sencational drama, in six acts,
written by PAUL MERRLTT (part author of “ The
World,” “ New Babylon,” &c.) and GEORGE
CONQUEST, entitled
THE CRIMES OF PARIS.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Btalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tiokets tor ail parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
LO till 6. No Free List.
Saturday, May 1, first production in Sydney of the
Mest Successful Comedy, THE MAGISTRATE
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager.. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
31st WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
last week the great pink pearl.
EVERYBODY DELIGHTED.
FUN, FAST and FURIOUS.
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
Last Two Nights of the Farcial Comedy, in 3 acts,
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
On Saturday next, the Sensation Drama,
BLACK FLAG.
Manager for Mr. Dampier ....FRED. GUNTHER.
O7 MUSIC.
oole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hiscocks.
3rd YEAR, 3rd
And still the popular and Fashionable Resort.
Once again we record another Great Hie of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Specialty Union.
Terminating with W. H. Bent’s Screaming Farce,
OVER THE GARDEN WALL.
The alhamura music hall.
George-streei, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION iu their reflned entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Night,. Grand Concert Spirltuel,
at 7 o’clock.
FOLD’S SYDNtY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
termß, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
Lynch family bellringers;
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lyneh.
PROVINCIAL TOUR.
Cootamundra—Wednesday, Thursday, April 28, 29
Temora-Friday, Saturday, Apiil 30, May 1
Junee-Mondav. Tuesday. May 3 and 4
Wag ga—Wed., Thure., Fri., Sat., May 5,6, 7, 8
Adeumg—Monday, Tuesday. May 10, 1 1
Tumut—Wednesday, Thursday, May 11.13
Gundagal-Friday, Saturday, Mav 14,15
Yass—Monday, Tuesday, May IT, 18
Burrowa, Crookwell, Goulburn, &c., to follow.
FEDERAL COFFKE PALACE COMPANY,
LIMITED,
7 Collins-street West.
CAPITAL-100,000 Shares of £1 Each.
36,000 Shares are Still Under Offer,
64,000 having been Taken Up.
TERMS ot PAYMENT as follows:
On application, Is per share
On Allotment (in one month) la 6d per Shara.
F.rst Call, Bl*t July, 1886,2 a 6d per Share.
Second Call. 30th October, 1886,2 i 61 per Share..
Third Call, 3Ut January, 1887,2 a 61 per Share.
Further calls, if required, at, not less than three'
months, interval!. 11 the whole nutrber of shares:
be issued, it is not expec'.ed that more than 12a 6d
per share will be called up.
A commission of 3d per share will be allowed to
all agents securing application l !.
Six per cent, interest will be given upon all
sums paid in advance of thj above dates
JAhKS Ml RAM 4, beeretarj-.
20tb April, 1886.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYD
FLEMINfiS
RELIABLE
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT UOW GOOD I
K
ay
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
. Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONB,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call audlnspeet.
McLEAN BROS. R/GG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEOBGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
5
IRONMONGERS
5
X
o
V
o
&
m
REG?
1
S>
SPECIALITIES:
Davis ’ Sew.ng Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
Alb j Carbon Lght.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY. TOOLS.
Gas Cooking Stoves :—Leonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
HALL,
D 0
B B Y N S'
Junee Junction.
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
E
VBKYBODY »
SHOULD USB f
FEMELI/S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA. FLOUR MILL,
BSI Ceorve-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 27,1886.
mSNDBR? for PUBLIC WORKS and BUY
B PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govhrnm bnt Gazhtti, a die of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the oolony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notioe are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nattura of Work* and BuppllM
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Additions to Court and Watch- j
nouee, Casino •
Station Master's House, Haven- I
worth, G. R. Railway
Cutting Grass od Embankments,.
&c., Main Southern t-ewer
Erection of Stationmaster's
House, &c , at Orange
Erection of a Railway Station
at Macdonaldt wn
Construction of House for.
Porter ia Charge at Wimble-
don, Great Southern Railway I
Tuesday,
May 4,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of 130-ton Iron
Hopper Barge-Dredge Ser-
vice
Additions to Musketry Shed,
Victoria Barracks
Tuesday,
May 11,
at 11 o’clock.
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Coota-
mundra
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Pater-
sou
Tuesday,
May 18,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Delivery in New-
castle of Pipes, for Water
Sapply Reticulation, Huntir
River District.
Oonftruction of a SC-ton Iron
Hopper Barae-DrtdyeScrvire
Additions Police Building?,
G< ulburn.
Additions Lighthcuse. Port Ste-
phens.
Tuesday.
May 25,
at 11 o’clock.
W. ,T, LYNB.
TheJIVINE off the PFERAGE.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H. fi9 Prince if Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
wii
extra dry
QUALity PfJ
iiTaiiiiiii
Reims
Agents for JNu w Wales
HJ.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MAR6ARET STREET, BYDNEY.
Easter Holidays, 1886.
EVERYONE SHOULD SEE
THE CELEBRATED
CHICAGO
CAMP FURNITURE.
MAY BE
INSPECTED AT
27 JtMIESON-STREET.
R. MOniSOH STEWS RT.
UMiSFiiiLiuts
STDDT KCOHOMJr
and
: Ha veyourUmbrella Frames
I re-oovered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Btreet,
Brickfield Mill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Bti.
Parasol- made to match cos-
tumes Runiiljf*naatlv ar»-
c
m
O
vv.r
AV
6
v A
1 5 />?
rsil
V


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T jiatki Royal—“ Crimes of Paris ” p.
GAIETY Theatbe— “ The Great Pink Pearl ” „
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
ACADEMY OF Music.—Federal Minstrels „
“Bobadil” was the Easter bill at the
Sydney Opera House, and audiences crowded unto
Eerspiration greeted its production. It would
ardly be safe to suppose that the intrinsic merits
of the opera were responsible for this management-
delighting attendance. Most of those present
were agricultural Chesterfields who mash the
guileless cow and innocent jumbuck for 860 days
in the year and devote the remaining five to a wild
attempt at carminating the metropolis. To them,
in choosing a place of entertainment, unlimited
stockings are a sine qua non, and so it happened
this time that the Opera House suited them all to
smash, with perhaps just a little to spare. For
there, we may whisper, these garments are sym-
metrical and bulbous in shape, and gorgeous
beyond all description in brilliancy of hue.
* * *
We have described “Bobadil” once or
twice before. The libretto was written by Walter
Parke, Luscombe Searelle, and we should think a
third man (probably J. C. Neild), who discreetly
refuses to permit his name to appear. The best of
it certainly is that contributed by the composer,
Mr. Searelle himself. Mr. Parke’s work is fair to
multy. and to the third man the opera is indebted
for such stuff as this, which we quote from
memory, “ Oh, yes, I know him, his mother used
to wash for us.” “ Our family have never washed.”
‘‘l wonder at that with soap so cheap.” Such
dialogue as this, of course, make the thing whiz in
the pit, for it serves as a basis of the wit which
will make the walls of Durand’s-alley and Gordon-
place re-echo on some future and festive occasion,
bat it is only just to Mr. Searelle's work to say
that in “Bobadil” it seems almost out of place.
Yet there are several things in this opera which
seem out of place, for it is throughout a strange
combination of incongruous elements. The pa-
thetic and the grotesque continually jostle one
another. The sweet sentiment of “Wnere Love
alone is King,” and other lyrics by the composer,
accompanies the grotesque business of Moriarity
the pantomimic policemaD, the farcical funniness
of the Armenian Jew, and nigger-minstrel humour
of Schacabac. That the sublime and the ridiculous
must be present in order to make a comic opera,
we know well enough: the trouble in this case is
that they do not blend or harmonise. They are as
separate and distinct as Abigail and orthography,
or Orangeism and Christian charity.
* * *
For all that, “Bobadil” is likely to catch
on to a considerable extent during its six nights’
run. The music is soothing rather than inspirit-
ing, and agreeable rather than popular, and the
oomposer permits it to lose none of its beauty in
interpretation. Mies Flaisted makes a brilliant
and melodious princess, and fills the character
with (this is a oompliment, mind) her native dia-
blerie. Charles Harding clutches the name part,
and overcomes it with great slaughter. He took
the same role when the piece was first produced
in November ’B4, but his present performance is
as many miles before, as it is months behind, that
v-representation. Mr. Templeton, owiDg to the cold
of the season, spoke and sang as though he had
half-swallowed a haystack. As to the others, they
did the best they knew how, which, in the case of
Miss Fenton, J. A. South, and Lester was consider-
able, but in other instances really did not amount
to much. “Jfantine” follows on Saturday; pre-
parations for it are on an ele-fantine scale of mag-
nificence.
ft ft ft «
There is not much to chronicle respecting
the business at the Sydney Royal this issue. “ The
Crimea of Paris ” still holds tne boards there, and
will do so until Saturday in the current week.
Merritt and Conquest will have thus scored a
three-weeks’run before what we may call the
most critical audience in the southern hemisphere.
If anyone disputes our right to designate the
Royal patroiis in this style we are willing to let
the phrase go as a quotation from Dion Boucicault
on the right he carried away the biggest money.
The sibilant murmur sent in through the mam
entrance in Castlereagh-street by a communica-
tive portion of the proud cohsrt of superior per-
sons does not appear to have made the triumvirate
sell their clothes and start up country. The great
heart of the people Is “their dart,” and they declare
that they have got there with three pair of
grandly-developed hands. They maintain the con-
quest to be owing to merit.
* * *
On Wednesday night next a new English
comedy, called “The Magistrate,” will be pre-
sented. Some home files in speaking of it refer to
it as a farce. The original meanings of words are,
like primitive innocence, difficult to maintain.
Still there is some apprehensible difference be-
tween a farce and a comedy. There is more
tragedy in a farce. A farce makes one laugh more
heartily than a comedy. It is the tragic element
that is the cause of this. However, in a genera-
tion that oonfounds a fable with an allegory, some
confusion as to the different essences of farce and
comedy must be let pass.
ft ft ft ft
“ Ireland as it Was ” is the title of the
alleged drama now occupying the boards of the
Sydney Olympic. The first thought which this
Piece infallibly suggests is the fervent hope that
Ireland has changed since. If not we have no
sympathy to waste upon its people. The brutal
Sassenach may sit upon them, chaw them up, and
cast them in one huge howling mass into the
deepest part of the Atlantic, and we will join
nands with the brutal and remorseless tyrants,
ana congratulate them on the devastation they
nave wrought. The mau who wrote the piece is
aeaa. We aro sure he is, for pickaxes and the
9<ua-metal are found in every quarter of the
B f°be- Or if perchance he escaped the wrath of a
rightly rageous nation he must have perished
long since of the wounds inflicted by sharp-
toothed remorse.
* * *
We were not quite able to get- the hang
or the drama. The central figure, Daniel Carolan,
if a cross between Robert Emmett and Job.
has all the submissive patience and deep
resignation of the latter, and although free, as far
oafl 0 cou Jd see, from boils, is always in a stew, to-
other with the native eloquence of the former,
fyl®. business consists in sitting silent amid the
cnatter of the children until his cue comes, and
o„® n * striking an heroic attitude, he fires some
Piling platitude into the crowd, which never
hio 810 el icit responsive plaudits. But in spite of
nni Be dtiment, he is like Japanese tea, rather
and tasteless and not much chop, any-
thi * unleBs you have a fanoy for that kind of
ißno 1 1‘v. Ju<J y O’Trot is engineered by the Vital
snrSr uorselt. Her make-up is on a scale commen-
?urate with the magnificence of her hosiery, and
t. VO ce is bke unto the melody of the Australian
Vin W £ rra Iq its native wilds. Miss Lettie Le
of t e ’ . te Howard®, and two or three more lumps
i nine perfection, have to stand around and
svm lo Y el y. an office which they fill even as do the
houi? . rl . oa i understandings and sawdust of a
k B ",®t-gi r i erowd out the wrinkles of fire-brigade
ft U, Bl ery. Mr. Thomas is a moonlighter in the first
a magistrate in the last. This is quite in
tnwT® with oolonial custom: from cattle-faking
rftr .u iB BiBtracy i 8 the usual course. Mr. Thomas
o J?lf, Be nts each character with equal skill and
thoi Mj to himself. The other performers invest
canL anguaf?e with aa much of the brogue as they
h a p *: Bu . m 6 °n so short a notice, except when they
ana n n to for &®t, which is sometimes. The songs
to thL anoes tacked on to the business are about up
10 tne average.
rh. T • * * *
suroH lrisil business appears to be ever a
sionaiu? w On Monday night the applause occa
aiwotv. verged on the tremendous, and was
,T 8 Shftcitnt to keep the house lively: and as
ent«V? B P kluJl y ‘meiged at the conclusion of the
deito* fl2 ment a tjur'y Munster man gripped our
frrT>i. er fli PP er and squeezing it till the blood oc z d
o*u eveiy finger-tip he murmured, “Wasnt it
foine, thin ? Begorra, that’s the kind av play I
And we rejoiced with him to the tune of
a bath-bun and a glass of milk.
** * *
..A* l Sydney Academy of Music, the Federal
Minstrels—but no, we can’t do it. We were going
to enter into a detailed criticism of their show,
laying on the oleomargarine with a lavish hand,
and using the scalping-knife with generous fero-
£l*7* the fact is that we haven't been
able to get into the place for the last three nights
on account of the overpowering, overwhelming,
crowd. Therefore our description of the present
programme must stand over for a week. And we
know that it is a good one, for when we waited
* or * tram last Sunday morning at Redfern we
heard the echoes of the Academy hilarity of the
previous night still reverberating around the
columns of the railway station. This latter is a
lie, but no matter.
#* * m
The Sydney Alhambra was again on
Saturday night.chocked full with an appreciative
»?• c r e^s" tac6 s audience. In the minstrelsy part
Minnie Hope, Lucy Frazer, and the classical-fea-
tured Matlock came in for most of the ap-
plause for their ballads. In the olio “ biz ” which
followed. Miss Oscar-a very diminutive young
lady—wrestled with a couple of serio-comic songs.
Hetty, Croucher and Bhipp sent the dust moving
with dances. Nina Tulloch “ mashed ” the gods,
Naylor gave a double-voiced version of
Eileen Alannah,” and Mr. Arthur Reed sang two
alleged comic ditties. In connection with this
part of the performance we could not help notic-
ing the proneness of some of the members for
encores, for on more than one occasion when a
n avvy in the audience made the slightest noise in
shifting his feet at the conclusion of a song, the
singer came back, bowing and blushing, to give a
second edition. The performance concluded with
the screamiEg' farce, “ Grime’s Will ” (we quote
the bill). There is a tradition that this farce was
originally played in the Ark, having been specially
written for Noah’s “Mount Ararat Minstrel and
Opera Boufle Company ” by a celebrated play-
wright of the antediluvian period. We can’t say
whether there is any truth in the tradition, but we
hope there is, for if the author was with Noah it is
unlikely that he is alive now, and—we don’t wan
to see aDy more like it.
** * •
Mr. G. W. Anson got up to his neck i
glory over in Melbourne. He played in th
Model of a Wife ” the other night, and (we quo i
' the Herald) “had the pleasure of forcin
all the aides-de-camp to laugh louder than h
Excellency the Governor; more heartily the
could not ” Think of thatl We take it tha';
Anson attained the loftiest summit of a
actor’s ambition when he forced his Excellency no
laugh. We don’t think so much of the aides-d
camp s uproarious merriihent, because, of cours
it is part of their official. business to watch th
countenance of the Gov. Oh these occasions, at
go one better than he does#ilf his Excellency hac
been in a bilious mood the Herald man migl ;
have kept his glasses fixed on the box the who
evening through without detecting the ghost of
simper frem anybody. But, anyway, Mr. Anso
scored a grand triumph. The future may hav
further bliss instore for him—we hope it has—bu ;
the epitaph of Mr. A. is, to all intents and pur-
poses, already written: “ He’once made aGo ver
nor laugh.”
#* * *
It is said,that the Queen has “ commanded
a performance of “Enemies,” Mrs. Langtry
new play. This should go far towards re-estab
lishiag the Lily’s rather ricketty reputation, fo
the very uniqueness of such a command now-a
hays must glorify the recipient with a halo o
strictest propriety. Mrs. Langtry may have been
singled out for the arduous honour of trying to
amuse the Queen for family reasons. The actres
has been snubbed by the Princess of Wales. A
State show of “ Enemies ” may be intended $s
snub for the Princess, who is not upon the bes;
of terms with her dread mother-in-law. Ihi
“Enemies” is an adaptation from the French
The author is Charles CoglaD, whose sister Ros
hss been a well-known actress for many years.
** * *
A £25,000 company is being formed to pro-
vide Manly with an aquarium. Let us hope i
will be as interesting as that at Naples and not so
giddy as that at Westminster. One of these days
when the citizens awake to a proper sense of duty
they may feed the Manly aquarium ootopus with
the Sydney aldermen.;
** * *
It is set down that though Chiarini wanted
to take his circus to CantoD, his agent there
decided that it would not be safe to open to a
crowd of "turbulent natives.” Our opinion is
much the same. Until some new jokes have been
manufactured for the clowns, “ turbulance ” may
naturally be expected anywhere. For 25 years we
have been a9ked by the circus-jesters how we were
the day after to-morrow, and have listened to the
tale of the man being weighed at the restaurant for
a decade. And we think we hear, as we write,
Now Mam’selle Yictorine, what can I got for to
fetch, for to bring, for to carry for you ?” Yes,
Chiarini is certainly right not to go to Canton: the
Chinamen couldn’t be expected to stand itl
* * *
At Her Majesty’s Theatre, London, the
season was terminated rather abruptly by the
refusal of the stage-carpenters to set the scene for
what proved to be the last performance until they
were paid their arrears of salary. The audience
amused themselves by singing “ Wait till the
clouds roll by,” and other ballads of the same
nature. It was impossible to attempt to proceed
with the play, as all, except the “stars,” were on
strike, and after portions of the National Anthem
had been sung the crowd dispersed.
** * *
Mr. Martin Simonsen goes to Europe next
month to secure a company to regale Australia
with a season of grand opera. Oyer £l7OO has
been guaranteed already by subscription. ..Emelie
Melville (we notice the faot with heart-felt grief),
has been far from well lately, and is said to be
very thin and ill now. If sympathy of ours could
cure her, she need never consult a doctor Miss
Kate Chard at latest dates was playing at the Em-
pire Theatre, London, In “ Round the World in
Eighty Days. - ’ A trained elephant is one of the
chief actors in the same piece Albani, who is to
sing the cantata at the opening of the Indian and
Colonial Exhibition, is coming to Australia.
Strange this. We haven’t heard that her voice
has smashed.. .It is said that Mrs. Langtry is be-
coming so proficient an actress that by the time
her beauty has vanished she will be able to make
money by her art.
Newspaper men are about the best judges of a
good drink. They one and all appreciate Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MANY MEDICINES
Now.on the market owe what virtue they possess
to the presenoe of powerful and poisonous drugs.
Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters are purely
vegetable, and will not icj ure the feeblest and most
delicate person.
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe’s Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
The Heavenly Paradise is frequently
thought about and hope-' for, but few strive to
mtke an earthly paradise fir themselves. After
the crosses, annoyance and exu nation of business
thG quiet, tasty and well-appoinuc! home is appre-
ciated, and we fail in doing our pari to build up an
tarthly paradise if we neglect the beautifying of
the minds of the dwellers and the adornment of
th i dwelling place. Articles new and beautiful in
design and shapes in Glass and China for the table,
mantels, wails, cabinets and, wasbstands intended
for making home happy obtainable at Bray (Bros.’
China Showrooms, 403 and 404 Georg e-street. +
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and best
stimulant, tonic, diuretic, at present before toe
world.
CORRESPONDENCE
LCorretpondentt t eho give neither name nor nom-de-
pUme cannot expect to have their com-
munication § noticed.!
“ Banjo”: Thanks for offer,'hut we are not
tempted “ W.” : You say, referring to our
leader of last week, that it is not a gross and base-
less libel to assert that ad valorem duties would
demoralise the mercantile community, and ask if
it is reasonable to “ suppose that men, however
really well-meaning, who have been brought up in
an atmosphere of * smart ’ business, can see their
less honest neighbours stealing away their busi-
ness, and not be tempted to get on even terms.”
Do you then believe that our “ merchant princes ’
are felons without opportunity ? That really is
what your argument amounts to. We quite agree
with you that the passing of false entries should be
classed as a fraud punishable with heavy penalties
and not regarded as a slight financial irregularity.
Why a deadbeat should get a month for stealing a
loaf, while a rascally merchant detected in an at
tempt to swindle the State of thousands gets off
with a fine, which acts merely as a tempta-
tion to try the trick again, is what we
fail to understand “A.J.D.”: Thanks
KiDg Billy ” (re Ireland): We do not “maintain
that any people has a right to demand independ-
ence,” but we do maintain that every dependency
has a right to substantial justice. You say that
Ireland is “ a half-conquered country.” The Irish
must be a wonderful people if all the military out.
rages committed against them, from the sacking
of Drogheda to the “coercion” of Buckshot
Forster, have not amounted to conquest. Now, as
to the North of Ireland. You admit that these
Norther ers would be only a small minority under
Home Rule, and seem to argue that, because that
is the case, the present state of things-acceptable
to the North, but oppressive to the South-should
be continued. To prove your own premises is to
defeat your argument therefrom. If the Orange-
men are in such a minority why should the
majority be oppressed for their sake ? You predict
a civil war because the Orangemen will rebej
against Home Buie. To this the only answer ii
that if they rise against their local Governmen;
they must be treated as rebels to it and the
Empire....“J. Sexton”: Every Jew who lends
money usuriously is an enemy of his race. The
Jew has more brains than the so-called Christian
and is in many respects a better citizen-on the
average. He should so apply his abilities as not to
incur the opprobrium that will ever attach to
usury. ..“Hiram Abiff”: Good; next week....
"Chary”: Regret that your copy is unsuitable.
Have kept it for y0u....“ Sincere Admirer”
(Launceston, Tas.): Thanks for your pleasant
letter. Memos, of interesting local occurrences
always welcome...." J.F.M.”: Will probably use.
Send us some more poetry “James Marks”:
There isn’t one man living in England to-day who
can fairly set up as a humourist. Fifty French,
Italian, and American pieces of fooling can be
produced any day for one English piece of
humour. This ferocious opinion is written after
reading your letter and once more looking through
the “ fun ”of the “greatest ” London paper. Will
somebody tell us where Moses was when the light
went 0ut?....“ L. 8.”: The chief characteristic of
the elegant elegancies in question is that no
character in them has any character at all, and
each personage proves it by talking the washiest
of elegant platitudes. The scenes are always ’mid
or twixt something or another, and the names
are all, without exception, of the Montmorency,
Lola, Inez, Cholmondeley, Fitzhawhaw descrip,
tion, and must be appreciated by all who never
wore moleskins, and who glory in high life
“ H,J. de C,”: The Alfred Hospital, Sydney, has
splendid accommodation for private (paying)
patients If, however, you wish for a private hos
pital, write to Dr. Harman Tarrant or Dr. Cham-
bers ...“Joske”: One of the dullest of all the dull
flatteries of this age is the reporting in full of the
motions and amendments of “Alderman” So-and-
so... “ M.A.P.”: The "Lady and the Parson”
is a long way the best of them, but it is
much too sultry....“X.”: Verse about as slushy
as any we have seen for some time. Prose better.
“H.0.M.”: You say, “ the Joint Stock Bank
carvings would look better if seen from the other
side of a wider street.” Certainly. From the other
side of a street five miles wide "C.R.”: We
don't know what the arms and motto of the great
Smith family is. When Sydney Smith-the greatest
Smith of all, barring Burdett Smith—was asked for
a oopy of his seal, he said (those were the days of
sealing-wax): “The Smiths always seal with their
thumb-rai1.”...." C.R.”: A stiff percentage of the
people whogote hear the “private” lectures of
Bridget O'Gorman, the “ escaped nun,” probably
attend expecting to wallow in filthy details. As
there isn’t any filth to speak of in the discourses
of this female Chiniquy, many in the audience are
miserably disappointed. (2) We don’t know where
all the admission-money goes ; very likely into
Bridget’s capacious pocket, as there’s plenty coin
in the business Travelling in the name of the
Lord pays well if you’re a keen showman.... “A
Passenger ’: Will summarise your letter next
week....“C.8.” (Monaro): You are evidently suf-
fering from whisky. Down on your marrow-
bones and go through Cardinal Moran’s form of
prayer for rain—“EA.P.”: You “don't think
you're much of a poet.” Nor do we “ H.T.”
(and 50 others): Next week. Hot cress buns have
interfered with our labours lately.
We do not undertake to return rejected MS.
There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS of
-nits:
AND
ORISNTAL NOVELTIES.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 4/-
Seal .. 47-
Bracelet. 8/-
. 10/-
„ 13/-
14/-
~ 16/-
Bangle
Earrings
ft
Albert
Necklet .. ..5/
Watch (Ladies’).. 30/
„ (Gent’s) .. 30/
Brooch, frm 1/6 to 10/
Send for the solid gold Gem Ring ... 8/i
•> Keeper „ .. 7/<
„ Wedding „ 7/(
Waltham
Watch £8 8/-
9 0/-
„ 10 0/-
„ n ii/-
Up to £5O.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
4 10/-
5 0/-
5 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0/-
Send fcr the Silver Waltham Watch 3 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
A handsome Oriental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 4T4 George-street, opposite
the Markets.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
‘ANfdINOQ 0109 IVIN3IHOJ


BRIEF MENTION.
Capel Court Government House, Syd-
ney.
At Last!
THE GRAND OLD MAN: "WE PART HERE, HART INGION.”
“ The Marquis of Harlington has denounced Mr. Gladstone’s Home Rule prop pals.”— Cablegram to Australian Press.
“The Marquis of Hartington is the eldest son of the Duke of Devonshire, a semi-paralysed nobleman who must soon die, and in succeeding to the Dukedom the Marquis
will come into possession of estates with a rent-roll of £180 000 per annum.”— English paver.
Hon. A. L. Tucker, M.L.A., was up before ]
a Fitr.roy (Melb.) Bench for refusing to “move
on ’’ when requested to do so by a poiioeman. The
Bench dismissed the case. They very properly
considered, no doubt, that no member of Parlia- 1
ment could ever be expeoted to “ move on.”
The Down anto Gomtreg .Tebnil praises
Mr. Way’s translation of the Iliad, and speaks of
its fidelity to the original Greek. Next week the
Jehnie will review the political reflections of LI
Hung ChaDg, which tbe office is now trans'atiDg.
The Chinese titles of nobility descend one
grade in rank with every gene-ation. Thus, sup-
posing the father to be created a duke the son will
only succeed as a Marquis, the grandson as an
earl, and so on. And yet we think the Chinese
fools I There are, of course, no hereditary C. M U.-
ships in China, as it’s not considered that a C.M.G.’s
son could be lower than his lather.
“ What’s in that Saratoga enquired one
of Baron B.’s servants of Lord Capel's valet
That a not a Saratoga trunk?" was the con-
temptuous reply; “that’s hia lordsh.ps glove-
box."
It is our pleasant duty to record after
reading through the TenterfleM Btar the startling
intelligence that nothing whatever has happened
in the district.
A Kangaroo with claws has been discovered
in York Peninsula, NQ. It can climb trees like an
opnfsum. All we want to hear cf now is a wombat
that can write veroe.
The Queanbeyan Age discusses the ques-
tion whether wo shall know each other in heaven.
We can’t say; but we may venture an opinion that


in any case the AriE editor will not, when he gets
to Paradise, be on more than nodding terms with
his journalistic rival, O’Neill.
They spell it “joss ” Synles.
“ Copies of the Cumberland Mircury
containing a full report of the local debating
sooiety’s recent discussion on the Irish question
are —listen 1—“ to be mailed to Mr. Gladstone.”
Odds and Ends.
No. 1. It has been announced That “ owing to the smallness of the Ball-room at Government House, Sydney, a limited number of invitations to the approaching Ball
vill be sent out.” Well, it must be admittod that some of our aristocracy have rather large feet, but it was a delicate way of putting it, nevertheless, and is another in-
stance of the Governor’s great “tact.” 2. Hiscock’s Minstrels gave a “Sacred Concert” on Good Friday night. Sam Keenan in sacred Fong ! Save the mark ! 3.A
Parliamer tary Easter Egg. 4. Our artist employed his Easter holidays in making “realistic” studies for Post-office Carvings. (It is not generally known that he has a
commission to replace those which are now the envy of Sir Frederick Leighton, and the butt of the “Constant Reader” humourisl). 5. From a cablegram received
yesterday, we learn that Mr. A. G. Taylor, our able and popular Member of Parliament, left England with the Orient on Thursday. He comes home to us laden
with the brightest honours that could adorn a politician, etc.— Mudgee I NDEPRNDENT. 6. Adelaide telegrams slate that Mr. R S. An[?]ear, the manager of the local branch
of the National Bank, has been suspended and arrested under a charge of forgery. A disclosure of defalcations is anticipated, and it is also rumoured that the accounts of
the manager of an institution connected with a religious denomination are about £1000 short, but that, on Christian principles, the matter is to be hushed up. 7. Not-
withstanding the bigh price of eggs during the Easter holidays, we had a great blow-out at our boardiog-house. One egg divided among U boarders. 8. Mr. Froude
says that he never saw a down cast face in Australia. From which it may be inferred that he never walked through the Sydney Domain. 9. The following extract is
from a report by Mr. Inspector P. R. Brett, of Tirana, to the Rabbit Branch of the Miring Department,:—“Large numbers of cais have been turned out in this district
but are not doing muoh to wards destroying the rabbit pest. When the cats become wild, as they do in a very short time, they seem to prefer birds to any other food. Last
week rabbits and cats were found near here, living together in a large heap of posts. On looking over the place I found remains of birds only.” Intermarriage between
the two species is next on the cards with interesting Darwinian developments. 10. Roughing it at the Easter Encampment. Easy chairs, carpets, electric lights, tele-
phones, Shades of Wellington, Napoleon, and General Jackson! Do you call that roughing it?
rt&terth. r ? P o rt , alread y, cabled to England
Bw&m following replyßeport JoDes,
“wane, views received. Conso's ros j y z per cent.'’
Miss Iliat Earl Cairns is to marry a
Wonevw«ii n Am , erloa ° l“dy with any amount of
fix den-Tni’ W( ? re quite satisded. Our late’s
the a ? i OD k “8 we get our fried chop in
doesn’t hi?.? JUBt f? time for the tram, and she
esn t bring our family down to the oflice more
than three times a week to pitifully show ua their
busted hoots, we are happy enough.
He was a hungry pressman, and tried to
work his way into a Sydney Coffee Palace on Good
r riday. He was blocked by about 150 red-coated
volunteers who came down for the review. He
addressed the officer in charge to this effect: “ For
Heaven’s sake, don’t allow your me a to carry
ev r/ restaurant at the point of the bayonet.”
"Bayonet be blanked,” returned the Major: “I've
been waiting Here an hour to get them to draw
their knives out of their mouths.”
It having transpired that John Jeremiah
Jinks, our respected townsman, was to leave
Buogabilly to pay a long-projecte! visit to Bunva-
pannikin, a few of his friends rallied arouuo him
and presented him with an address and a purse of
sovereigns. Several gentlemen present bore testi-
mony to his straightforward movements on several
occasions when he was seen sober. •
We read in the Invereli Abo us that Rev.
C. W. Graham in his farewell sermon said: "For
three years we have . . . watched over your
souls, prayed and sung with you, and wrestled
with God on your behalf.” Which confirms us in
our long held belief that thß modern parson never
wrestles much with the Devil.
“ The disappearance of Buckshot Foster
from the Political horzm will be halef with
delight by all haters of t.yreny. He proved him-
self the most tyrannical men ever invest*red with
governing.power.” Chuuk quoted literally from
our respected contemuorarv, the (of Narrabri,
N S.W.j Irish and Australian World.
The bakers of N *wcastie, N.S. W., refused
to bake hot-oruss-buns on Good Friday. Wethere-
fore postponed our annual visit to the BlaokCity.
If there is one thing that makes us cling to exist-
ence it is spending our Good Friday morning with
a roll of steaming hot dough under our waistcoat,
making us feel as if we had just had me yeasc
poured in and were beginning to rise.
“The Rev. John Watson, rector of Orton,
near Peterborough, died on M mday from dislo-
cation of tho hip, caused by stumbling when
rlafa? from a kneeling position after family
prayer.”— southern Reportsr (N.B.)—
W i mourn alas, the Rev. John
tn lauirmge ala Tapper.
Taran parsons should not pray upon
The carpet—after supper.
An Englishman was formerly supposed to
be equal to tarte Frenchman. We s-em to have
struct a new rule m N.S. W. for comparing values.


of men. One collier drowned In a flooded colliery,
at Newcastle, takes the Minister for Mines in a
hurry to that place. Three are suffooated In a
colliery at Litbgow. no Minister. Five more are
killed in the same pit, and that fetches him, and a
“ distinguished party ” also. As one is to eight, so
is the value of a Newoastle to a L'thgow man.
When in Rockhampton you hear that a
man has "gone the way of ail flesh,” pray don’t
imagine that he is dead. No, he has only gone to
gaol, or beeqme insolvent.
Up North, the members of a provisional
school couimlttf e appointed one of their number
to collect funds for building purposes. When the
collector’s list was examined, the amounts written
down didn’t correspond with what was koown to
have been subscribed. For instance, 10s. 6d. was
changed into 6s 10d.,and 9j. Id. to Is. 9i. When
asked to explain those slight discrepancies, he
said: "I was drunk at the time aod must have
Bcribbled ’eni down with my left hand.”
The Melbourne University Council .l ave
been tryiDg for some time to get a policeman to
watch the University at night. We presume they
The Monkey and the Chestnuts.
Mr. MARWICK, at the general meeting of the members of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, called to consider the advisableness of opening a London office and
extending the Society’s business to England, said, amongst alotof other things:-" Hedid not know if many in the hall ever found their Way up King-street, Sydney, but on
a certain large building there was often to be seen at night the reflex of unseen objects, which, according as they were moved nearer or further away appeared more or less
real. Oneof the soenes brought before them on the present occasion was an objeot, behind the screen of which they only saw the shadow. The distance between here and the
mother-country might make it rather indistinct at present, but when he saw that shadow gradually becoming more definite, and observed certain retired colonists now resi-
dent there, and who were taking such an active interest in the establishment of the branch in London, if he did not question their self-denial. their
efforts on behalf and for the benefit of the Australian Mutual Provident Society. Retired men at. home no more than in the colony were proverbial for living upon air and a
hundred or couple of hundred pounds per annum for a weekly half-hour’s attendance at a board meeting was not to be ignored. The fee. eertainly, might have little
attraction, but the fact of being a London director of an Australian Insurance Offioe, and, as Mr. Joseph had well said, ‘ one of the premier life offices in the world, as also the
most powerful financial institution in the southern hemisphere, would give a position and carry with it an influence whieh even a retired Colonial millionaire was not pre-
Pared to over look."
are afraid that somebody may steal a professor for
tbe purpose of vivisecting him to find out in which
of bis feet -bis intellect is located. Or perhaps—
but no; surely these learned gentlemen would
hardly! - and yet we have seen a professor ambling
borne in tbe bushed dawn with the side of bis bat
in front and the buckle over his left ear before
now.
Thus is the tarpaulin of our liberties
dragged down- At Batburst Assizes, the judge
declined to fine absent jurors, " because the
farmers of the district had been passing through
troublous times.” This is a nice st ite of thiugs
The Lord only knows whether a sundowner, for
snavelling a loaf of bread, has not been permitted
to go off on his evil ways through the laxity of
these farmer-jurors. Will some M.P. please ask
what this judge means by airing common sense
irom the Bmoh. We hate innovations.
At a meeting of the (Melbourne) Metro-
politan Debating Society, held the other night,
the Early Closiag Aot was dtsoUksed. One of the
shop assistants who spoke said he had bad t,o work
93 hours a week for £l. This means just 16 hours
a day at : per hour. And yet these shop-
assistants oomplain if they have to work 18 or 20
hours a day now and again! But there is a kind
of people who are never satisfied until they are
dead—and, if what the parsons tell us be true,
some of them are not particularly satisfied even
then#
As a rule we look to the Gundagai Times
for an opinion on difidoult subjects «uch as the
Irish question, Imperial Federation. &o We are
all at sea this wpek. We have hunted through the
issue of April 30 until we are tired. However,
there Is one item which might be read with inte-
rest:—" Impounded at Adelong. on Bth April, from
Adelong station: Black horse, branded like Woff
shoulder, sore baok; brown colt, like V over P
(reversed) near shoulder; brown mare like hWO
near shoulder, blind off eye; brown filly foal at
foot, unbranded, sore on leg.”
From Saturday’s Sydney Evening News:
—"A German test for watered milk consists in
dipping a well-polished knitting-needle into a
deep vessel of milk and then immediately with-
drawing it in an upright position. If the milk be
pure a drop will hang to the end of the needle,
but tne addition of even the smallest portion of
water will prevent the adhesion of the drop.” We
tried this recently and brought up the leg qf a
frog. Now, we have heard before of live frogs
beiog found in what looks like solid rock, and we
got the explanation from Professor M'Coy. What
we want to know now Is how that frog got into
the cow.
The Sydney Echo says that all the re-
ligious denominations in Adelaide, except the
Anglicans and Roman Catholics, observed Sunday
week as a day of humiliation on acoount of com-
mercial depression. As our humiliation, like our
commercial depression, is chronic, and we hap-
pened to b i reoaid an old debt on Saturday we
postponed our " humiliation ” till to-day, and have
to oontess that we were carnal enough when the
roast-beef and plum-pudding came steaming in
from a godless baker’s shop, we were, not to put
too fin® a fork into it, carnally hilarious. Needless
to say we have nothing for to-morrow. We will
back ourselves, however, to humiliate beyond
recognition if somebody will promise to send
around to our attlo on Saturday a shin of beef
and three loaves.
There is dignity even in a dustman, and
the pride of a policeman 1s a well-established faot,
therefore the following ad. from a Sydney even-.
lng paper does not strike the reader as being any-
thing more than a desirable statement :—" Mr.
desires to intimate to his pupils and the public
that he is not the Mr. advertised to sing at
sundry hotels and music halls.” There, now, that
is one side of the case. We may shortly expect to
see the other Mr. Blank put in his little notice, and
then folks will want to know who are they, any-
how. Possibly no one ever heard of either of
them before, and as their trouble is of less import-
ance than the war in Bulgaria it is probable few
people care if they never hear of them again. But,
ah I we sight it, another advertising dodge. What
will be the next racket ?
We have never seen that, devotional little
paper, the Sydney Echo, in its right place, save on
one ocoasion—and that was when it was used by a
blushing respondent who had been “ carrying on ”
with a giddy clergyman, to hide her face in the
Divorce Court. That, however, is by the way and
apropos of nothing in particular, except that we
don’t feel very well this morning. The Echo
struck a poet in Philip Dale, " author of Dorothy ”
(and Mary Ann, too, for aught we know). Philip
filliped out some "verses” on Easter Tide. Here is
a marble in the ring;—
A pause in living and in animation
When sound and silenoe meet,
A pause when heart-throbs cf the great creation
Faintly and slowly beat.
The office taw, please—
A pause in dying and deathatioa,
When light and darkness whistle,
A pause when wags his head the great creation,
Just like a big Hootch thistle.
Your go now, Phil.; knuckle down.
Up Singleton way there is a “mimbir av the
fooroe ” who makes himself peculiarly obnoxious
to the boys, one of whom determined to “ get
level ” the other night. Standing at a safe dis-
tance, he began to comment on “ the trap's ” per-
sonal appearance-the fit of his uniform, shape of
his legs, and general get-up, until, tantalised
beyond enduranoe, the gentleman in blue gave a
bound forward with a view to effecting bis tor-
mentor's arrest for indecency or something. The
youth streaked, so did the bobby, the chase head-
ing in the direction of the cemetery, when only
that day an exoavation had been made for the re-
ceptlon of one of the elect who had pegged out
the previous evening. Allowing the bobby to
gain slightly on him, the chase leapt the “yawniDg
chasm, while the less informed pursuer stepped
therein and disappeared. On the vesper air there
floated for one minute a long low quavering howl
followed by a succession of gasps, snorts, and
screams which caused those who resided in the
vicinity to think there was a riot amongst the
corpses. Soon the populace assembled and the
guardian of the law was dragged out to be asked
sternly and in a threatening manner by a relation
..of the late lamented if he wanted to " jump the
We read that at Middle Head camp,
Sydney, “many .officers have tents with boarded
floors and qa pets thereon. Brussels and other-
wise. Electric lamps of the newest type hang
gracefully from the poles. Various patterns of
chairs, in which comfort and elegance are sought,
are placed within and without, mosquito curtains
and so forth, all giving evidence of camp life
under pleasant auspices.” Brussels carpets, elec-
irlc lamps, chests of drawers in a military camp I
Where s Abigail ? AU of which reminds us that
at Middle Head Camp a year or two ago there
were some nioe little artioles of baggage under the
mosquito curtains—pretty little oamp-requisites
who wore number one shoes.
, The promoters of the Mysore (India) Gold-
minlng Co., who are trying to get a 000 l million
out of the London public, have some good friends
on the Eaglish Press. A London weekly, for in-
stance, tells us that “the Oriental tale is not a fable
—the seoret treasure-house of Auningzebe, the
spot whence he and others derived their wealth,
the caverns of Ormuz and Ind, have been dis-
covered by the patient, plodding directors of the
Mysore gold mine.” The London public will likely
swallow this yarn, whloh relates to a "resoeotable”
oountry, Hindostan, the “ East Indies.” But if the
Day Dawn, or Mount Morgan, or the Long Tunnel,
or any ether first-class Australian mine were put
on the English market to-morrow, the public
would be incredulous, and the brokers, before
undertaking to sell a share, would want 50- per
cent, of the oapital by way of commission.
if you are nervous take Wolfe’s Schnapps.


The chief witness, Hirlsford, in the War-
fell murder case, confesses to adultery with the
wife'of Ltddiard, the man sentenced to death for the
crime; and Hirlsford has been half-a-dozen times
in gaol. Frail evidence to hang oh.
Who will be such afoolas to steal a pooket-
handkerohief or a half-crown after this? Ella
Bass-ball: The Latent Sydney Institution.
Davidson, in Melbourne, charged with stealing
*lOOO from Mr. George Nipper, was sent to gaol
for a month. A month for £lOOOl But then eho
never got the use of it. Her trusting master left 20
*5O notes lying around, and the sight of 60 much
knocked her poor honesty all to smash.
Kaiser Wilhelm, the Emperor of Germany,
had his hip stove in by falling over a lady’s train
at a btate oall given in Berlin recently.—Sydney
daily paper.
Knocked out and hipped within a peaceful room—
A damaged carriage from a lady s tialD.
The wits fairly run riot in northern
N.S.W. At the East Maitland banquet to Lord
Vftnngton, one eloquent merabab, in allusion to
the fair sister of Lady Carington, said: “ I do hope
she may be Harboured here,” which, as the young
lady’s family call themselves “Hubbard,” was
quite a distressing pleasantry. ‘“I am sadly
afraid,” remarked another genius, “ the ladies of
West Maitland will all become Benedicts.”
Ladies, you who are married and whose
husbands are exposed to the disturbing influences
inseparable from a business life—be sure you keep
a dog upon the premises. It may save you much
unnecessary suffering. We are thinking of Edward
Jones, of West Melbourne, while we write. Elward
returned home the other afternoon worried and
out of sorts. Purthermore, Edward was drunk.
He did as most men do under such trying circum-
stances—smashed the crockery and threatened to
“finish” the missus. And, ladies, there is little
doubt that Edward would have finished his wife
if he hadn’t relieved his feelings by strangling the
dog. The faithful four-footed creature was the
indirsot means of saving the life of its mißtress.
Now you perceive the bearing of this paragraph.
When he comes home mad and the work of de-
struction commences, whistle for the dog. Perhaps
it would he as well to keep two or three dogs
about the premises.
The Rockhampton Evening Mercury is
just starting on a new career or usefulness. The
paper has broken the old syndicate, sacked the
old editor, and repented of the misdeeds of the
past. It has also laid in a large stock of assorted
principles for Its future guidance, and is going to
make things whiz in Central Queensland. Before
bidding farewell to its former evil courses, how-
ever, it does a burst of penitence in its leading
column, illustrated by the following touching
episode in the life of the writer:-* When a chill
he misconducted himself, whereupon his father,
remonstrating with him, brought forth peniten-
tial tears coi.pled with a confession of guilt, con-
trition, and sorrow, combined with appeals fur
forgivece is, and vows of determination to reform.
Then the tender embraces of an atfeotionate
mother re-assured our yotthful mind and ei-
kindled a flame of affection never to be forgotten.
influencing our whole life and actions.” What a
prig I The general impression In the North is that
the * Mercury’s father should have Boundly
spanked that youthful journal, and locked it up
on bread and water for a fortnight. But what
causes the most overwhelming surprise is that the
Evening Mercury should have had such a rela-
tive at all. The general impression was that -
It never 1 had a father,
And it never had a mother,
But on mouldy Scotch pease brose,
It was dry-nursed by its brother.
However, it now appears that the father < xists,
and he has spared the rod and spoiled the Mer-
cury. Having thus roused public curiosity as to
his early oar*or, the journalist feels called upon to
give further particulars, which he does as follows:
—‘‘By a combination of circumstances the Mer-
cury was engendered and brought forth. Two
months ago, this produetion was born, and now it
is our paintul duty to confess that the thing has
been neither more nor less than an abortion from
the commencement to the present time. We there-
fore, with humility, apologise for the wishey-
washey hash that has hitherto been served up
from our office. Truly we have been an orfran
without aDy definite sound. Wo have seen our
error, and moreover, be it distinctly understood,
are determined to remedy it; on this we stand or
fall.” Here, again, local opinions differ. The
Mercury descrioes itself at one and the same
time, as a tbiog, an abortion, and a dumb organ
two months old; where the general iropr<S3lon is,
that it is not an organ at all, but a fiddle with one
string. However, taking it at its own valuation,
it is evident ihis abortive organ has got titnnrto
stand or fall, and the new Instalment of wiahey-
washey hash ” quoted above is the wail of anguish
which announets that i: feels itself going.
There are some very funny aldermen down
at Hay (N.S.W.) When it was known there ihat
the Jenniags-Robertson camps could not form a
Ministry, these aldermen wired to Lord Carington
offering to come to Sydney to rua the Govern-
ment for him. At least this is said to have been
the purport of the wire, but as the council-clerk
left the book outside the safe one night, the press-
copy of the message was torn out. We would like
to see the aldermen who were moved to make this
historic offer. They doubtless thought that as they
had proved their ability to make the,little beys
and goats of Hay grovel in abject terror before
them, the same qualities would avail to steer the
country out of its financial difficulties, and make
things sing all round. And their modesty was not
less than their overwhelming self-confidence, for
they did not offer to become per r etual Premiers
and eternal Treasurers—they only offered to clutch
the portfolios until his Excellency could get other
advisers. History does not show a nobler or more
self-sacrificing- offer than that of the Hay alder-
men, and the annals of the known world do not
show a more startling exhibition of unbounded
impudence. This offer must afford much satisfac-
tion to the Governor. When the present Ministry
retires, far from being harassed by the need or
advisers he can just bring up the aldermen of Hay
in a cattle-waggon, and await the formation of
another Ministry with the utmost complacency.
Or if these Hay men tappen to be busy with the
shearing there is no reason wLy councillors should
not be drawn from elf e * here. We have no doubt
whatever that the Mayor of Marulan, and the
council clerk of Billy ram biga, would willingly ac-
cept the billets of Premier aad Vice-prisideat of
the Executive Council
CUPID'S VICTORY.
“The victory la mine,” quoth she;
“ He loves me-that I know;
Heart-free am I, and joy to see
His haughty head brought low.”
•• The victory Is mice I” quoth he;
“ She loves me—that is plain;
I’m quite heart-whole and sport ’twill be
To rule her sweet disdain.
" Hal ” chuckled Cupid, looking on
With wickedest design;
“ These stupid mortals both are gone,
The victory is mine! ”
Ib Fate not captious in her stern decree,
WBehold! the warrior monarch lying low,
1 he potentate before whom all bent knee,
Who bade e’en England one time to go Blow;
Yes. gaze on him who plucked the eagle’s plume,
Whose name rolled forth o’er every heaving
main,
Exhausted nature signifl 8 by symptoms that
she needs aid and succour. Use Wolfes
Schnapps.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer, Soda Water, Ging<-r Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Llthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
/Erated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
There is a mildly amusing incongruity
between the concluding line of tbe following
obituary advertisement, which appeared in the
Melbourne Age, and the three lines that precede
it:—
* The mistakes of my life have been many,
The sins of my youth still more;
And I scarce can see for weeping,
But I'll knock at the open door.”
There are, no doubt, many bereaved persons who
w‘l' be glad to obtain a variation on this. We give
it freely, for w* have always had a soft spot ii our
hearts for those who mourn and will not be com-
forted. Attend:
I’m the worst of sinners, you bet, sirs,
But I snap my fingers at fale;
I'm steeped in crime to the eyebrows.
Yet I'll Jnng at the golden gate!
W # #
“ JFTe r Majesty ibe Queen has graciously
ordered a hundred rabbits to be distributed
annrg the poor of Windsor.”—London paper.
At a deputation to the Premier of New
Zealand from the Teetotal Alliance, Sir William
Fox propose 1, with a view to discouraging Sunday
trading by hotelkeepers, that “As the police had
little to do on Sundays, they might be told off to
watch the hotels alternately, without any notice
being given as to which houses they were going
to. The police might be kept standing all day op-
posite what were known to be Sunday-drinhing
door3.” Sir William should try this little task
himself for one consecutive Sunday in, say Wel-
lington, when the gentle z?phyr whoops round the
A PARALYSER.
BURGLAR: “QUICK, NOW-WHERE’S YER WATCH?”
AFFRIGHTED SLEEPER: “AT THE PAWN BROKER’S.”
corner and rips the paving-stones from their bed
toburltbem in the face of the pedestrian; when
the hat of the stranger flies from his crown and
floa's In space till sufficient momentum Is attained,
when it goes seaward with the s peed of a telegram;
when,’choked with dust and blinded with gravel,
the reputable citizen slips in the side door, slops
up hi? soft stuff, and slides. No, Sir William, you
are on the wrong racket. It would take four
policemen to Fox a publican. Touch the bell:—
Tne 28th March was the third anniversary
of John Brown’s death. By a strange oversight
no In Memoriam appeared in the D.T. so far as we
can remember. But we must give him one.—
Brown—ln loving memory of John Brown, who
died in clover 3Sth M arch, 1883 A sovereign’s fad,
a people's joy. R.I.P
Here Is yet another advertiseoaent from
the Age: “Dear Harry,-—Things are changed on
your part. Remember this Wednesday morning
six weeks. No change in me. H.” Heighol play
that dear old air, “ Ben Bolt,” upon the office har-
monium, and we’ll address a verse:—
Captain Cook’s compass and grog-bottle
oost the N.S.W. Government £4O. Yet the latter
was quite empty. Will the Government kindly
explain ?
No Chinese soldier in Tonqutn during the
late war lost an opportunity to eat the flesh of a
itdlen French foe, believing that human flesb,
especially that of foreign warrior l , is the bestpos
siDle stimulant for a man's courage.
A charming scheme for giving poor chil-
dren a dinner of soup and currant-pudding twice
a week at Windsor has been inaugurated, and her
Majesty has subscribed £3(1) to tbef'.nd. If those
kids broke a shop-winaow and stole a clock no
doubt their fare would be soon supplemented by
at least beef and greens 1
Our old friend Lady Munro is going on
worse than ever Lizzie has now taken to Knocking
men down in Meloourne. And we hear such ban
Recounts of the poor lady’s health, as to make us
rear that if the Countess of Dudley doesn t make
her Australian trip very speedily, she will find
.sister ’ Lizzie flown away for good.
The valedictory report of the retiring
president of Melbourne Chamber of Commerce
say tnat “the commercial barometer testifies to
the uninterrupted • fair weather ” enjoyed by Vic-
toria for the last two or three years Notwith-
standing the depression in N S.W. and S.A., trade
in Victoria has been sound, the manufactories
have rot been idle, and the industrial classes have
been making good wages.” Yet Victoria is a
protectionist coloav.
From the Gunredah (N.S.W.) Advertiser :
-“A meeting of the Athletic Club was held at
Maher’s Hotel on Wednesday night for the pur-
pose of boycotting the Advertiser ; and Bill
Pritchard, the leader of the Maitland-atreet
contingent, was in great form. He was sup-
ported by the Cohen boys and one or two
others specially pressed into the service.” We
regret to say we are in a deep study at present
over the probable outcome of Gladstone’s Mid-
lothian campaign, but we promise to deal with
this Bill Pritchard ana the Cohen boys in a drastic
fashion shortly-say 33nd April, 1900 a,d. The case
is urgent.
A London governess was recently sent to
prison on half-a-dozen charges of stealing, to
which she pleaded guilty, and it will be gratifying
to those in search of instructors for their children
to learn that “it was stated that her friends had
made arrangements for her to go to Australia
when she became free.” And it was only the
other day that we sent up a newly-arrived gover-
ness to a friend in the country. We presented her,
at the railway station, with a bundle ot sausage-
sandwicnes. and handed her in her umbrella. It
struck us then that it was tolerably weignty, but
we attributed tnat circumstance to the face that
she had probably wrapped up in it some portion
of her possessions—a dinger sewing-machine, or a
dog. But now a horrible conviction has taken
possession of us. It was a crowbar!
There is a good story from New London
(C.S.), of a man named Jerry Jones eating 10J
smelts for a wager in 17 minutes. On pocketing
the stakes he then, for a consideration, offered to
immediately devour a dozen boiled eggs I This
reminds us that the N.S.W champion porridge-
eater, Mr. Bibby, seems to have faded from the
public gaze. If he turns up again, a match might
dc made between him and the Yank for, say, a
mad dog aside. The interest ia such an exhibition
would be very great here; and influence might be
brought to bear upon his Excellency to give (he
being a mighty sportsman) his patronage to the
entertainment. On the whole, ho wever, we hardly
think with Bibby in it that the match could come
to anything. It would be almost certain to
be found tnat Bibby was so anxious to “up-
hold the honour of New South Wales ” that
he had eaten his mad dog before the snow began.
We have received a neat little volume,
entitled “ How to Play the Fiddle: Hints to Be-
ginners.” No doubt these are complied judiciously
for the guidance of such fiends in human clothes
as may be desirous of ecraptug the tail of the horse
against the innards of the cat for the torture of
their fellow-men. Our own Hints to Beginners
are es follows:-l. Lock yourself up in an under-
ground cellar in some distant land, somewhere
where cholera is raging for choice. 3. Take the
violin firmly in the lefc nand and place a medium-
sized chopper in the grasp of tne right. Bring the
cnopper down violently on different portions of
the instrument at intervals of two seconds until
it is totally unrecognisable. 3. Light a coal fire.
Place the bow of the fiddle on the most lurid por-
tianoftbe same, and then dance in front of it.
4. Take a finely-tempered razor and draw it slowly
across your throat.
CHARITY.
(A Dramatic Sketch.)
room in Windsor Cistle—Q...n discovered
alone—Removes crown and scratches her head
in perplexity )
Q ~. n (sol'l.):
*' Wbat cm Tdo ? My heart with anguish bleeds
To hear these stories of my people’s needs
How, spite of that five hundred pounds I sent,
There yet are seme who cannot pay their rent-
How women starve and children naked go
While gaunt-faced fathers wander to and fro
Tn quest of bread, the precious staff of life.
O, shade of Bmwn! it cuts me Ike a knife-
C >uid I exist, one weary day. without
My fifteen courses and my glass of stout ?
No, no-a hundred times; and thus I feel
Mv country's tuff eringi must indeed be real.
( Frowns)
In empty stomachs treason, too, is bred:
Those recent meetings fl'led my soul with dread-
And much I fear another vulgar riot—
Wbst can I do to keep the masses quiet ?
( Ring s bell.)
Full to the brim is now mv bitter cup—
(Enter attendant on hands and ltnees.)
Send the Primers, so soon as she gets up.
(Attendant c y awU backward from room )
My youngest daughter hath a ready wit—
Sho’ll help her ma, maybe, a little bit.
I love the music of her tripping tongue.
It wskers dreams of days when I was young
When rone made bo'd to prate of discontent,
Ard queens were worshipped every where they
went.
I i these good the common herd were
tauabt
To keep their a*>d do the things they ought.
Fix shi lings weekly in goldm age
rightly reckoned as a worthy wage;
No vote were they ambitious to acqure.
They only lived by Fuff’rance of the rquire;
If fo r d ran short they seldom made a fuss -
Or, anyway, none ever worried us.
That Grand Old Man, with votes and education,
Has brought, about the present situation.
(Sobs violently into pocket-handkerchief, but pre-
sently becomes calmer.)
How things are altered I Men who live to toil
Eespect no more the owners of the soil,
And cry that Heaven didn’t grant them healsh
To squander in amass’ng landlords’ wealth.
The merest boor, so Bertie tells me, now
Has visions of three seres and a cow;
The onetime patient hind no more reveres
Bis squire, his vicar, and the House of Peers,
But prates of human rights ! Oh, cruel Fate I
Therefrom I augur danger to the State;
There is no safety for our royal crown
Unless the few can grind the many down.”
(Enter Princess B , with hop, skip, and jump.)
Princess B
1,1 Good morrow, gracious mother, prithee, tell
Your Beety-S veety if you're feeling well;
J've but this moment left our Batty, dear,
The Duchess told me I was wanted nere;
Methlnks my mother’s face denoteth care.”
Q...n:—
“ Oh Beefy, Beefy, trouble fil's the air:
Despite my labours for my country's good!
A lot cf folks are rather short of food;
Here, here in Windsor, at our royal door,,
Dwell luckless creatures, unemployed and poor:
E'en our last gift, five hundred golden pounds,.
Is swallowed up, and still distress abounds;
Fears for the future haunt me in my sleep—
Wbat can Ido to aid them—on the cheap ?'*
(Q...n again weeps. Princess B. springs from
her chair and claps her hands together in giddy glee.)
Princess B.
“ Dear ma, I have it, pray your mind relieve,
And dry your tears upon the royal sleeve;
To extricate you from your awkward fix—
’Twas well lo think of artful little Trix.
(Rings bell.}
I have it—just a pleisant j )b for Bit.
(To attendant, who crawls in.)
Command the Prince to come, and bring his hut.
His overcoat, and double-barrelled gun—
(Exit attendant on hi< head.}
What larks, mamma! a splendid bit of fun,
You know poor Ba f . la very short of work.
And getting Iszy, too—ihe naughty Turk!
Now, I propose my handsome, hard-up hub.
fcbaU find these poor the necessary grub.
(Q... n shuddcv&t >
Let Christian (who, as ranker, knowi the groan- df.
Show Bat. the places where good sport is foiaaid;
The n he can have a day among the rabbits—
I want to gst him into English habits.”
Q.. .n:-
But how does this affect my question, Bee ?’’
Princess B.:—
How dull you are. dear mother, don't you see
Of this my scheme the very cunniag drift ?
’Tis fashioned with a due regard to thrift;
The rabbits shot by Bat. this very night
S mil feed the poor and fill them with delight;
"Tie carcases of those poor romping bunnies
Can be your royal gift, Instead of monies;
Take ewe the papers know from whence they
came,
And leaders long will glorify your name—
Toadies will rave, and every loyal Tory
Will draw sweet morals from the touching
Story.”
Q.. .it:—
“ Beety, my child, your meaning now is plain—
My mind is eased, mamma s herself again—
But here he comes, let no more time be lost,
What joy to feed the hungry—f ree of cost I”
(Enter Prince Bat. in a kilt.)
Prince Bat:—
“ Ach mutter 1 lam here, und brord? mein hat,
Wod vas de orders fur de fadeful Bat. ?
Mein gun vas vading, who vas I do schute ?
Show me der mann—l dabble in his bluet.”
Princess B.:—
“ Oh, Bat. for shame 1 You wouldn’t kill a man—
Except by accident. I’ve thought upon a plan
To help mamma; look sprightly, sir, and take
Your gun and do some work, for wifey’s sake;
Ark cousin Christian where the rabbits run,
And blaze away at them until the sun
Lurks in the west end reddens yonder sky,
By then you will have bagged a good supply,
Which hither bring, let none behind remain;
Ta-ta, dear Bat., until we meet again.”
Prince B.: -
*' Ya, goot—l lof do kill de leedle dings,
I schute undill de bell fur dinner rings ”
(Exi Prince B)
(The Q ... n fondly embr ices her daughter, and
hurries away tn arrange with Sir Henry Ponsonby
about the rabbits and appropriate rej neings.)
Cubtain.
Dear Sir William, we would whisper, still so gently
in your ear,
That the man who wants to lubricate will al vays
have his beer;
B® it Sunday, be it Monday, be It morn or noon, or
night,
Any man who feels Inclined to will undoubtedly
gettight;
And not all the traps and watchers between Beer-
sheba and Dan,
Could, amongst them, ever circumvent a really
thirsty man ;
He who wants his drop of poison with a head, Or
cold without,
Will not only oil his flute himself, but for hi 8
neighbour shout,
And tbe only way to keep men straight in “ Aus-
tral’s sunny clime,”
Is to pass a law to keep pubs, open nearly all the
time.
Throe summers gone, three winters fled,
Bine© poor J.B. departed,
And still our weeplDg eyes are red,
For still we’re broken-hearted.
When scorching sun rays melt us down,
Or wintry winds blow chilly,
We sadly sit and dream of Brown—
The faithful, well-fed gillie.
We wonder if he plays and sings
An endless round of praises,
And flys about on snowy wings
Or—lf he’s gone to blazes I
A POEM OF PARR AMATTA.
[FOR THE BULLETLN.]
Though this ballad has some of the true Bmithfleld
ring,
Not the martyrs of old is the theme that we
sing,
Of a far later Latimer this lay will be,
And of bold M Namara and Gilliver Gee.
Twas the Sabbath in wild Parramatta. The park
Was o’ercrowded with citizens on for a “lark,”
Who had gathered in hope some excitement to see
’Twixt the bold M Namara and Gilliver Gee.
For the daring freethinker was going to prove
That ’twas all in his eye about Infinite Love,
That the story of Genesis could not well be,
Never counting at all upon Gilliver Gee.
M’Namara set down as a Biblical fib
The whole snrgical story of Eve and the rib.
From which fact you will readily gather that he
Was a different hairpin from Gilliver Gee.
M‘Namara was held to hold frivolous views
Of the life of the wonderful God of the Jews;
Views that would not, ’twas hinted, be found to
agree
With the sturdy opinions of Gilliver Gee.
M’Namara, ’twas said, all the church rites des-
pised—
It was whipered in awe that he'd not been bap-
tised,
That he did not believe in the snake and the tree
With the hearty endorsement of Gilliver Gee.
M‘Namara bad notions, ’twas bruited abroad
That our duty to man was much mor than to
God-
Tbat there was no great terror hereafter to flee—
He’d never yet hearkened to Gilliver Gee.
Then the bold M'Namara straight mounted a seat,
And proceeded at once the huge audienoe to treat
To bis version of all that has been, or will be—
Silent scorn stamped the visage of Gilliver Gee.
For awhile he proceeded—though many a yell
Rent the air—to discourse about Heaven and Hell;
“Can such things be allowed? Can such blas-
phemy be ?
I'll arise to confute it,” said Gilliver Gee.
Which he did. And we learn from a lucid report
Of the evidence given next day at the court
He was hustled by that bad agnostic, though Tie
Strongly sworB he was hustled by Gilliver Gee.
And the mob roared aloud—" To the river with
him! ”
“Lotus duck him!” “Let’s drown him?” “Let’s
see can he swim! ”
But, as names are not mentioned, men do not
agree
Which was meant-the Agnostic or Gilliver Gee.
But the brave sub-inspector, hight Latimer, then
Took a hand in the game with his resolute men,
And conveyed this Tom Paine to the look-up,
where he
Was detained for assaulting one Gilliver Gee.
And next morning, for doing the things that he
did,
He was eased by the Banoh af a couple of “ quid,”
Which amount has been gained by the Queen’s
Treasuree
Through the sole interference of Gilliver Gee.
Let whoever has doubts about canons or creeds
Think of this—no man having a faith built on
reeds
Could have won in the end so completely as he—
This new Oliver Cromwell—stout Gilliver Gee.
And, henceforward, we're not going to throw up
our hat
About Darwin or Spencer, or such stuff as that;
But, remembering the fine, bow full lowly the
knee,
To the winning religion of Gilliver Gee.
To HARRY.
Don’t you remember that morning six weeks,
That morning six weeks what you did—
How you smoothed her fair tresses and patted
her cheeks,
As her face on your shoulder she hid;
But now you have found a fresh girl, dear boy—
Fresh tresses to smooth and caress;
Along with a score of dead passions, or more,
That other lies buried, we guess.
Along with score of dead passions, or more,
That other lies buried, we guess.
Don’t you remember the vows that you made,
You whispered ’em Into her ear—
You swore shB should never have cause to up-
braid,
And the simpleton thought you sincere;
But though there’s no change in her heart, dear
boy,
It in vain reciprocity seeks,
For your is a rose that buds, blossoms, and blows
Within the short space of six weeks.
For youi’s love is a rose that buds, blossoms, and
blows.
Within the short space of six weeks.
Universal [use and popular approval have
indissolubly established the fame of Wolff/s
Schnapps.
The Federal Coffee Palace Company,
Limited.—l his company has now got fairly to
work; prize designs for one of the most magnificent
buildings on this side of the world have been ac-
cepted, and after some little delay in consequence
of a dispute as to which architect should be employ-
ed to carry out the design, operations have been
commenced. Messrs. Ellerker, Kilhurne, and Pitt
have been entrusted with the work, and Mr. D’Bbro
who threatened to enforce his claim to the position
in the law courts, has amicably settled it in such a
way as will not entail any cost upon the Company.
The contract for the first portion of the building
has been let to Mr. Kingston, wno was the builder
of the palace in Bourke-street, for something un-
der £lO,OOO, the excavations for the basement
apartments are completed, and the working draw-
ings for the superstructure are being pushed for-
ward with all possible despatch. In order to
provide ample funds for the completion of the
building according to the design, the directors have
determined to offer the balance of the unallotted
shares to the public, upon the same terms as those
originally issued, namely, -me shilling ner share
up m application, one shilling and sixpence per
snare on allotment, and two shillings ana sixpence
per share at interva s of three mouths u. til ten
shillings is paid up. Within a week of this being
announced to the shareholders 27,55 share i were
applied or, and the public, as well as the original
shareholders, are now ffered the opportunity to
secure them upon the name terms. The large pre-
mium which tue shares ot other coffee Pal ces are
bringing is the best possible proof that such in-
stitutions meet the aoproval and satisfy a want
which is felt in the community. The site whioh
this company has secured is an excellent position
for securing the trade it will oater for. ThB ener-
getic secretary, Mr. James Mirams, is supported by
an able directory of business men, of whom the
Hon. John Nimmo, the Minister of Public Works,
is chairman; and with the j udgment and care which
these gentlemen are devoting to the undertaking,
there should be little doubt of Its successful ac-
complishment.
The exceptional increase in the sale of Wolfe'S
Schnapps may be attributed to its marked superi-
ority over other Spirits. „


:
II :
WIPALIM.
LIMITED,
356 George-streat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 ©eorge-street, Sydney.
[ iW NEW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-BTREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
ki, Larai Ins., S Co.,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
eash in the best English and Continental-markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLBTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &c.,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
FOMEROY-CHAMBFRS,
OASTLEREAGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wanted in Every Souse.
Never Travel Without It.
V ,
to
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS.,
FLEAS, FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OROTHER"' 5 '
ANIMALS
.4
BO
fw Vx . i.
JFbyAIL chemists
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON'CRIMWADEW.C?
MELBOURNE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every Souse.
§
(
oo
(s
on
no
UNIQTJB FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilsos’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or oheeae.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Snssßx Stdmbt.
YANKEE DOODLE
Of*
M
50N.&
D N
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
HIXSOH ft SOUS, Sidney,
than any factory in the southern hemisphere.
toesees the largest Factory, Manufacture more
tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaocos,
jgV)R SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, all sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
tF.Ffeu
'~=n=f
P
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c„ at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
Stl upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
whioh is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant?, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st., London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PR2C @ E.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
f the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. ■‘TNNCS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
M PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
-A.“bra.la.a,aaa.’s
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form at
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
imre ediate relief.
434 GE RGE STREET.
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
jk SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE lor Ner-
rK youfl and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonic *nd soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour te the whole system.
Price, Is. 6d., or 255. a ease Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MA BSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Market-st., Bydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Etreet, Redfern.
Zlilneza. GKLoss
Nervous debility cured—l man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fra h
hoapita' physician and Parisian specialist, cental,
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0,, Box
766, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
IHedern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
* 7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.:
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OB COUNTRY USE,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AX
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
[Bf-.BYBJ&Y VEHICLE 0 DAJR4.NTJSED


SOCIAL
On Good Friday night Mr. C. Huenerbem
gave the first of his series of concerts in the
Masonic Hall. The audience was fairly big, but
had Mr. Huenerbein been able to include the
fashionable piece de resistance in the programme,
viz , the Governor and suite, it would doubtless
have been much augmented. Everybody looked
properly gloomy as became the night, Mr. C. Hard-
ing in his black kid gloves being specially funereal
in appearance, whilst both Miss Christian and Miss
Riley wore black gowns, which were certainly
made to look rich and handsome, the one with
rich bugle trimmiog and the other with a dash of
deep crimson satin shimmering through the black
net. It is quite wonderful how little encourage-
ment Mr. Huenerbein has met with in his
laudable enterprise in bringing Miss Christian
over from Melbourne to assist at the concerts.
We have not so many good singers here that we
can afford to lose the chance of hearing one of
Miss Christian’s reputation, and yet on Saturday
night the audience was meagre indeed. Oa Friday
night Mr. Harding made a decided hit by his sing-
ing of Delaney’s sacred song, and was pressed
very hard for an encore, which he, with commend-
able taste (all things considered) declined. Miss
Christian was at her best in the ’• Evening prayer,' 1
from Costa's Eli, but the audience was unaccount-
ably oold. Mrs. Riley sang sweetly, as usual, but
Mr. Hallewell, who had just got the first instal-
ment of a severe cold, which has grown worse
ever since and prevented his further appearance
atlthese concerts, was w ell, he wasn t as good
as usual, but that isn’t saying that he wasn’t
worth listening to. Mr. All press played a violin
solo (sacred) with nice tone and expression, and
the concert terminated with a duet from •* Stabat
Mater,’’ oapitaiiy sung by Miss Christian and Mrs.
Riley. These ooncerts were certainly worthy of
better patronage than they received.
• m *
The Fraternity of Mutual Imps gave a
pleasant invitation matinee in the rooms, Pitt-
►treet, last Wednesday The programme wasu’t
quite as good as usual, but that was due to the
Tg t that nunyjWho had “ solemnly.promised to
take part ” failed to putin an appearance.
* * *
An engagement, whioh will interest a
great number of our readers, has been recently
announced in London. We allude to that of Mr.
W. Palfrey Burrell, late assistant-judge of the
Supreme Consular Court, Constantinople, now
British Consul at Port Baid, and Miss Mary Cooper,
third daughter of Sir Daniel Cooper, B*rt.,
K.C.M.G.
* * *
Randwick Raceoourse presented a most
attractive picture on Easter Monday, when the
beauty and fashion of Sydney and Melbourne were
well represented. Lord and Lady CaridgtoD,
accompanied by the Hon. Judith Haibord, Cap-
tain Gascoigne, Captain Terry, and Mr. WalliDg
ton, were present the greater part of the day.
Lady Caringtona dress was of thin silx of a
peculiar pinky shade, with an intricate pattern,
and trimmed with a darker shade of satin. The
Hon. Miss Harbord looked well in ivory-tinted
cashmere, with a narrow vest of white; Mrs. F. M.
Darley wore handsome black; Mrs. J. O. Inglis (of
Melbourne) donned a green plush and satm cos-
tume, slightly relieved with old gold; Mrs. Cecil
Griffith wore an extremely pretty gown, the skirt
of dark slate velvet, with bodice and draperies of
velvet stripe; Miss Ciara Manning in green velvet
with white satin vest; Mrs. Wrench, in very hand-
some black gros grain, heavily trimmed with jet;
the Misses Throckmorton, small dotted black
surahs, black tulie bonnets with grey and white
doves; Mrs. M’Quade, apricot ottomau cord richly
trimmed with lace and pale green; Mrs. Septimus
Stephen, in a oostume of brown; Miss George, in
fawn; Miss Myra Kemble, in an elegant tailor-
made gown of grey tweed. There were a few
plush mantles seen, but the day was too warm for
such garments to be worn all day.
* * *
| [Christ Church, SouthYarra, was the soene
of a quiet wedding on the 15th inst., when Mr.
Chas. J. Hoyle, oi Rond-sweet, Sydnvy, was united
to Miss Emily Betnla Shaw, of Meloourne. The
bride was attired in travelling dress of dark blue
navy serge, and looked most attractive. Two
bridesmaids were in attendance—Miss May Shaw,
the bride s sister, and Miss Daisy Hewitt, her niece,
both of whom were dressed very handsomely.
After the ceremony had been performed, the wed-
ding party, to the number of about 30, met at the
residence of Mr, Raynes Dickson, at Arnside,
where the health of tae newly wedded pair were
honoured, and shortly afterwards the happy
couple started for the Gippsland Lakes amidst the
usual showers of rice, old shoes, and good wishes.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Banquet to celebrate the inauguration of
the Base Ball Club, New Masonic
Hall May 1,
Base Ball Match, Moore Park.. May 1.
M. Kowalski’s first concert, Masonio Halt.. May 3.
Eastern Suburbs A. A. Club Annual Sports
Mteting, Association Cricket Ground.. May 24
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—Now that the pious part of
Easter is over we can breathe freely, and enjoy
our llres once more—that’s to say as much as it is
possible under existing circumstance", for our
homes are almost completely un-manned, Port
Hacking, Lord Howe's Island, and various other
§ laces being responsible for our forsaken con-
ltion. What glorious weather they have had for
the encampment! It isn’t a bit like Easter, but
how much pleasanter it must be playing at soldiers
in the brilliant sunshine, than in the pouring rain
as of yore. It will give the “ soldiers ” quite a
taste for camp life, I should say, and they will
return to us with only a half sort of gladness, and
will resume the duties of their comparatively
prosy lives with but an ill grace; I may be wrong,
of course, but these are my fears.
The long-talked-of Japanese Village at the Ex-
hibition building is now a real thing, and on
Saturday, the opening day, we paid it a visit, and
were really entertained by all we saw. I can t
say as much for all we heard, for our ears have
not as yet been educated up to Japanese music.
A Japanese lady played an instrument something
like a Chinese fiddle, and a tiny boy played a drum
accompaniment, the combination of sound having
p eoisely the same effect as that issuing from the
kitchen when cook is in a tantrum, and, in order
to give vent to her feelings beats her eggs very
1 >ud and mutters complaints in a raspy voice all
the time. It is intensely monotonous, but very
likely the Jap’s ears were just as unappreciative
of the nice selections Patek’s band gave us at
Intervals, though it’s so hard for us to realise such
a thing. There are shops arranged all round the
building where oue can not only purchase articles,
but in most cases can see them manufactured.
For instance, at one stall two J xpanese women (one
of them possessing thj loveliest and glossiest black
hair) are busied in making those ouaint-looking
birds we have fastened amongst our drawing-room
curtains, suspended from our chandeliers, and
perched on various brackets. We went round to
the tea-stall and were offered a cup of hot water.
Now, I am told that hot water is one of the most
wholesome things to drink just before a meal, but
excellent as it is, I should prefer to call it by its
own name and not tea. These amiable Japanese
ladies (they all look amiable) seemed quite disap-
pointed when their hospitality seemed so little
relished, but persisted in offering the hot water all
the same. At first I thought it was a kind of
colourless tea, so just tasted it to make sure, but
it was just as devoid of flavour as colour,
and I am very much afraid these foreign
ladies were having a joke at our expense. On a
Bmall platform a juggler performs some rather
clever tricks, and 1 couldn’t help noticing what a
very large part a fan plays in a Jap.’s life. It
seems part and parcel of him; even his tricks
seem unfinished unless be fans them—it’s a fact,
though it does seem ridiculous. I came away
without knowing more than half this funny little
village, but it was enough to digest for one day,
and I shall look forward to spending another
afternoon there this week with much pleasure.
Such a delicious scheme for beautifying a house
on festive occasions has emanated from the basin
of a Mrs. Mason, an American lady. She lately
gave a grand ball in Philadelphia, and bad all the
wiadow-drapings removed, and curtains of aspara-
gus vines, Intertwined with the beautiful jacque-
not roses substituted. The landings of the stair-
ways were turned into floral bowers, and Mrs.
Mason received her guests in the shadow of a
mass of ferns in front of the ball-room. Even the
elevator was hidden in roses, and the mere cost or
the flowers for the season was £l4O It seems a-big
sum just for flowers, does it not? but then the
effect must have been exquisitely lovely. • I
wonder if there will be any unusual display at our
first big Carington ball, which is soon to come off!
A Maitland friend writes me that Lady Caring-
ton s reception held in West Maitland was the
attraction of all the feminine loveliness in the
town. Lidy Carington wore a simple grey nuns’
veiling trimmed with white iace, and with just a
touoh of pale pink in her bonnet; Miss Harbord
also wore grey, and a brown velvet jacket. Mrs.
John Eaies, who was attired in a sage-green cos-
tume, presented Lady Carington with a Small
basket of white roses, dahlias, and ferns cut from
the famous Duckenfleld garden. The Maitland
people seem to have been well pleased with their
visitors, though some of them lost their heads a
bit, and were rather oppressively fussy. My cor-
respondent rather cruelly observes that at the
time of the vice-regai visit several aboriginals
were in the town whose behaviour was far more
dignified than that of many of their sycophantic
pale-faced brothers. Maitland is certainly not
singular in the possession of such toadies. One
only needs to live in Sydnev a very short while in
order to find that out.
We are all sorely distressed about this second
fearful Lithgow colliery disaster which has left so
many families fatherless and destitute. Several
laoies in Sydney are attempting to start a fund
for the benefit of the widows and orphans
1 hope yours will not be a small mite, de*r,
for, remember, some of these poor things actually
haven’t money to buy the bare necessaries of life.
Wear your gloves a few inches shorter all through
the season, and by so doing you will save enough
to help a whole family for a week, I should ima-
gine. I see Mr. C Huenerbein generously
offered half the proceeds of his Tuesday after-
noon’s concerts in the Town Hall for the benefit
of the fund, but whether the proceeds amount to
much I can’t tell, as 1 was unable to attend the
concert. Sydney people are, as a rule, kind-
hearted, but they love not afternoon concerts.
The School of Industry ball comes off next
week, and, as Lord and Lady Carington have pro-
mised to attend, it is likely to be a big event.
Several of my girl-friends have been planning
their dresses for weeks past, so it is to be hoped
the results will justify so much expenditure of
time, money, and anxiety. But it often .happens
that the simpler a dress is the more effective. And
did you ever notioe what a penchant men have for
ootton dresses ? I remember when cousin Dorrie
came to spend a season in Sydney she was highly
incensed because Ned asked her as a favour to
“ wear one of her pretty blue ootton morniDg
gowns to the club ball instead of one of those
crußhable gauzy tnings Mab is so fond of wearing.”
She abused him soundly for his crass ignorance on
the subject of dress and declared she would rather
die than oblige him in that matter. But he stuck
to his opinion that she oouldn’t possibly look,
prettier tnan she did in a bright, fresh ootton dress,
but as nobody knows better than yourself, Bede,
that no amount of compliments will induce us to
defy the rules of fashion, I needn't tell you Ned
didn't get his way about the “ blue cotton go wn,”
as he called it.
Yes, dear, you must have at least three of your
winter costumes tailor-made, in which to make
your appearance in Melbourne, or you will run
the risk of being dubbed a simple country know-
nothing, and that would reil ot on me, seeing that
I am supposed to keep you posted up in such
matters; so, now, don’t forget. It seems that a
fashionable West End tailor can afford to pick and
choose his customers, those 1 idles who are the un-
fortunate possessors of tub-like or angular figures
being declined with thanks, as doing little or no
credit to his establishment. Just imagine a tailor,
of all men, being so fastidious!
Talking of dresses and so forth reminds
me that lately at a wedding in
Exeter the officiating clergyman actually stood
up in the puipit and rebuked that part of the
company who had flocked to the church “simply
to see what could be produoed by the manufac-
tory of art and the dressmaker's skill.” Well now,
it appears to me that that same parson quite over-
stepped his duty in finding fault with these harm-
less people. We all love to look upon things beau-
tiful, and what possible mischief can be done by
indulging in this innocent amusement? I don’t
like judging a man harshly, but it’s just possible
this same clergyman had receive 1 a smaller fea
than he expected—hence his ill-tempered and ill-
timed censuring of the astonished congregation.
Ah, well, clergymen arc but human after all.
Sinoe the language of flowers is nearly played
out. what do you think is being utilised to express
our feelings to each other ? Nothing less than
sealino-wax Red wax must only bi used for
sealing business letters, whilst black is, of course,
reserved for mourning correspondence, but blue -
now listen to this—is s'gnificant of love, and five
tints of various blueness are now manufactured,
so that each stage of the tender passion may have
its corresponding coloured wax. But I am
wondering how we are to know when we have
arrived st the different stagep, and how we are to
learn what particular shade of blue belongs to
that stage—when we get there. Pjrhaps some-
body will kindly print a pamphlet on the subjeot.
But wait, I haven't finished yet about the wax.
Pink is used exclusively for 88»ling letters of con-
gratulation, whilst, for weddings and balls nothing
but pure white ii permissible. Variegated or
mottled wax is understood to express conflicting
emotions on the part of thes3 using it.
I hiarthe Melbourne ladies are going to follow
our example and form a ladies' cricket club
next season, notwithstanding the assertion made
lately by a Melbourne scribe that the Melbourne
ladies prefer to cultivate the arts whllft we in-
cline to muscle. Too bad that, isn’t it ? but as it
isn’t true it doesn’t hurt us Well, if the Mel-
bournitis do imitate us about the the cricket it's
to be hoped they will exercise their superior and
artist io brain-power and invent something sensible
in the way of costumes Crinolines were ever un
graoeful, but upon tho cricket field are simply
grotesque, and, save lor helping to stop a ball oc-
casionally, areterrib'v in the way. I never yet
saw a girl run gracefully or stvlltly, handicapped
by a crinoline. lam afraid there is nothing for it
but the divided shirt after all.
I heard a gentleman on the railway station say
to one of the guards this morning, with just the
slightest touch of safoasm in his voice—“ Hi,
guard, what time does the 10 20 train start ? ” The
guard, who was evidently an Irishman, replied in
the gravest manner, “At 11 o’clock, sir.” But at
holiday time everything seems to be turned topsy-
turvy. though why it should be so I’m sure I can’t
tell. But after all, irregular as the trains some-
times are, and dirty as the trains always are, what
should we do without them ? We really ought
to be more thankful for small mercies, but we are
nothing if not grumblers. Hoping you are enjoy-
ing your holidays,
Your ever loving
M A.B.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Some Townsville contractors have unsuc-
cessfully tried to reduce wages from 83. to 7s. a
day. Things must be pretty rough when a man
has to work in the Townsville climate for less
than a shilling an hour.... The successef Canon
Farrar’s lecturing tour in America strongly
tempts him to visit Australia. It has been, how-
ever, suggested to him that he might go Farrar
and fare worse—Jos. Symes says the Melbourne
D.T. is a “ kept ” paper, “ bolstered up by certain
pious godly cads with more money than brains.”
....General MTver is up North Queensland lectur-
leg on Separation and telling all about those 14
hags he fought under. Thady O’Kane wonders,
though, that the Gineral does not narrate his hair-
breadth escapes and blood-curdling adventures
from memory, iastead of reading accounts of
them Mr. George Turvy, of Panncomiloo (Vic.)
cleared and grubbed 95 acres of land, bought the
cleanest and best seed, and was just about to sow
it when he found that some villain had been over
the whole ground sowing wild oats, drake, and
other ruboish Fresh police constables have
been ap olatel in London at “15s. per week.’ 1
This, for the whole year, is about equal in amount
to the emoluments of a N.S.W. “peeler” placed
for duty on the Market-street block during a
Rand wick raoe week!.... Larry Foley, pugilist,
says the best method of self-defei.ee is to keep a
civil toague in your head Some ruffian tele-
graphed on Ist April to a geutleman at Orange
(N S.W.) that his soft, on a station 250 miles away,
was dying. It was a lie Queanbeyan has now
80 volunteers, according to the local Gale. He
suggests the early mobilisation of these warriors,
together with the war-stained veterans of Bun-
gendore. As th@ latter have in them just as
muoh of the bushranger as of the soldier, we
mry yet look for a descent on Sydney
Yet another victim to the Sydney tram-cars.
William Passmore, clerk in the Union Bank, lost
his life on the night of the 24th inst —The S.M.
Herald calculates that 10,000 Australians have
gone this year to visit the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition, and, putting down their average ex-
penditure at £250, it means that we have remitted
two and a half millions of money to be spent out
of the country—and that at a time when so many
of us could do with a million or so. ..Mr. C. E
Jones, M.L A., of Victoria, applied for the Protes-
tant Hall for his lecture on “Parnell and Home
Rule,” advertised for 30th Inst. As Mr. Jones up-
holds the Irish cause, and as the Protestant Hall
is controlled by a bunch of Orangemen, it is need
less to say that the lecture will be delivered else-
whtre....Mr. William Hann, the explorer, ha 3
found a kangaroo with claws long enough to
climb trees. We don’t mind seeing the young in a
bit of financial trouble, but it is a painful sight to
see an old man up a tree when the missus has
nothing in her pouch —The Newcastle Herald
says that a certain NZ Tom Thumb is 15 years
old, 30in. high, and weighs only 201 b. It oopies a
Canterbury paper it saying that “he is shorter
tnan the original Tom Thumb and 251 b. lighter.”
Toat, if we remember aright, is slb. less than
nothing at all Volunteer office:—“ Private
O’Toole, I’ll report you for smokiDg in the ranks.”
“ Will you do that same, now ?” replied the
O’ loole,—“ Thin be jabers, av y’ do oi’ll raise yer
rint.” The Blngera (N.8.W.) Telegraph pleads
with its constituents for some little instalments of
long outstanding debts, “Just enough to buy
bread, beef, and beer and keep the official as-
signees frun the door.” Outside of Scotland,
save the Melbourne Age, there is scarcely a town
of metropolitan pretensions where museums,
libraries, and art galleries are closed against the
puodc on Sundays, save and except Melbourne...
Juue Noel, of Queensland, thus defines conspi-
racy “An agreement with two or more persons
to commit an unlawful act; immediately upon an
agreement, the crime was complete.”.... “Parkests
need good memories.”— Bydnev Globe
Melbourne and the district within 10 milts around
contain one-third of Victoria’s million inhabitants.
London and neighbourhood contains about one-
eighth of the British population... .The Judge
wao presided when tjie libel case, Valentine
Brown v. Melbourne Punch, was tried, laid down
this dictum in his summing up:—“A journalist is
not to believe every worn spoken in Parliament.’
Is this the kind of wisdom the man in the wig is
paid for ?....During the month of April Mr. Dan.
U Connor, Im Pay, has delivered only some half-
dozrn orations. .. The yarn of the m n who
stopped his paper has now gone the round of every
Australian paper that does nothing else but stop.
♦ f *
The Prince of Wales has »“ indigestion,*
and now dines off “the lean of a ohop, with a
hunk of stale bread.” Charitable lady to tramp:
“Can I assist you by mending ypur clothes?’’
“ Yes, marm, I have a button, and-if you sew a
shirt on I should be very thankful.’ In 30
years Great Britain paid off £91,000,000 of her
National Debt Robert Browning, the poet, is to
marry a wealthy Philadelphia widow—Tne ultra-
Tory English papers have begun calling Queen
Victoria: “ Her Majesty the Queen Mother. ’ —
At Beverley, Eng., the wife of a horse-breaker
named Gould has given birth to four girls, all of
whom are living and well. ...French railways an-
nually kill one passenger in every 2,000 000 carried;
English railways one in every 21,500,000. French
railways annually wound one passengt r in every
500,000 carried; English, one in 750,00 J; Belgian,
one in’11,650,000; and Prussian, one in 4,000.000...
If a Chinaman saves a man’s life, he is compelled
by law to support him. Toe result is that drown-
ing folk often perish within sight of help!...
wife: “John Smith, did you tell that
cetsus man my age?’ Husband (hurriedly):
“ Yes, the law compels me to tell him. I said you
were 17.” Wife (mollified) : “ Well, 1 suppose the
law has to be respected.”.... Irate person to staring
person: “ You’ll know me again if you meet me.
Staring person: “Not if you wash yer face.”—
Mr. M Lush: " Yesh. Lemme see—oh, yesh! What
ish the differensh between corned beef and a
oorned man? You can’t guessh that!” Mrs.
M’Lush (savagely): “Yes, loan. Beoause corned
beef never makes a fool of itself.”—Joseph Maas,
the English tonor, left £17,000, saved in ten years.
At the time of his death he was earning £5OOO a
year A poet came in and asked for work. Said
he was ambitious, but would start with anything,
even addressing wrappers He had heard of a
prominent man who raised himself up from a
printer’s boy.” Editor: “But you see, sir, our
paper is religious, and we never raise the devil.”...
A medical journal statos Dr. Yakub has used
cocaine ia a case of ruip jperineorrbaphy....“ Mr.
W. J. Ingram, M.P, has intimated ms intention
to remit at Lady Day 50 per cent, of his rents then
duo from bis Lincolnshire tenants.” Mr. Ingram
is proprietor of the Illustrated London News,
and married to Miss Stirling, a South Australian
lady.. The Prince of Wales appeared at Cannes
recently in the same carriage with “ Gumboil ”
(Lord Cairnt). Is a man, all, to be judged
by the oomp .ny he ke. p. ? Madame Nilsson
has just refused £6OOO and ail expenses for 15
cokcertsiu Russia “beoause it is so cold.”
Off R O 0 M 3
PU»«1 * D RI 1*
BRADLIT, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring utreeta, Sydney#
A
TJSTRIAN CHAIRS,
ia
Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
wton
and
LAMB,
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
assortment, Many quitenew designs.
Hall furniture, hatstands, **
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
f IBRAKY FURNITU KB, CENTRE and SID
JLJ TABLES. BOOKCASES. SECRETAIRES
READINQ and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RA WING-ROOM SUITES, 1b EXQUIBITB
taste, the very latest fashion: well worthy ol
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, arid Lamb.
\\t ALL CABINETS for Choice China, fco.
W VERY ELEGANT, just recelred/Bradley
Newtoa, and Lamb.
OYELTIEB In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newtori. and Lamb.
N
c
ANVAS FOLDING
COTB,
for camping out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/6.
ITBBDROOM SUITES complete In various woods
13 and very handsome designs, with 7-fee
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring ana O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EDROOM StJITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel-rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and I CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 18 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Id EVP N POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED-
ROOM SUITES— Tbe Economic bedroom
Su;te, oomprlslDg wardrobe, chest drawers, wash-
stand, dressing table and glss«, and two chairs.
The lot for £7 15i. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
lamb.
jnHRAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.;. Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 64.;
Cheat of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from MS 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, frem 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
J-RON SAFES,
various sizes.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB.
riA« \j£ uttxi», Kuar»uiet>u auu«»
jwOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Jompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for oash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. ,
nRA*ING-ROOM FUBNITURB.-The'latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusiie examples are now on
view in our Bhowrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L*MB.
T7ILEGANT NOVELTIES in BEDKOOM FOR-
lli NIT ORE. full suites, in SATIN WOOD, ROSE-
WO JD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
SL^
ICE CHESTS,
all sizes, from 375.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and
LAMB.
t'
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
UPRIGHT
JjIXCELSIOR
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 45j.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Ch&irf,
__ INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Q’Connell-street. ‘
Rattan verandah lounges, 203.; and
large variety of Cbairs,&o ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
c
ANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and light, suit-
able for shipboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTON'
and LAMB.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON"
and LAMB, Spring: and O’Connell streets.
T3ATENT SANITARY
Jl SPIRAL SPRING or
iLASI’IC WOVEN WIRE
MATIRAgSES.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACK ETB-Noveltie§
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6. ■ ,
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours* Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb* ____
COMMODE CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN
Shaving Stands. Bradley. Newton, & Lamb
AMBhICAN PATENT
SHUT-UP CLOTHES
DKr^RS.
Eaota dryer gives 136 feet
of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), ifrted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8,6/6; 8x8„9/-; 9xB,
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 12x8,14/6; W xlO, 16/6.
BttADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The Intercolonial eight-oar race, rowed on
Victorian waters on Saturday last, needs very little
description, l'he Victorians, pulling: a less num-
ber of strikes than their opponents on the long
slides, drew away from the start, and won as they
liked by some eigrht lengths in 18min.
Though individually the cornstalks were tne oest
crew that has yet represeated N.S.W., they were
so humbugged in their training and fitting-up
that had they been Beaches and Mattersons the
result would in all probability have been the same.
The first mistake was, as we strongly pointed out
at the time, in having Brett as coach, a selection
which speaks very poorly for our rowing men,
and if it was really thought Brett was the only
man in the colony competent to coach the crew it
would have been far better to have put another
man in the boat, and thus allowed G. B. to confine
his attention wholly to the coaching. Brett took
his place in the bow, with the object of watching
the men in front of him, and this upset the crew
when he took his plaoe aft; but the demon still pur-
sued them, and coach bad, later on, to move back
to number three for the stated reason that the new
boat trimmed by the stern. Then a still more
grave mistake was made in placing George Seale
number seven in the final fixing. For pluck and
staying power Seale is second to none in the boat,
but as an accomplished oarsman he must make
way to N. JohnsoD, who should undoubtedly have
rowed seven, as he is not alone a lighter man than
Seale (and we understand weight forward was the
object of the change), but he is more used to row-
ing behind his clubman Bros, at all times a most
erratio puller. Then there was the change from
short to long slides, and poppet heads to swivels.
We believe with Brett, that the change is a good
one, provided the men are educated up to it,
but to pitchfork a crew a few weeks before a race
iuto a boat fitted up in the new style was very
properly looked upon by boating men as fatal to
the chances of a win by the N.S.W. crew. The
picking of emergency was no exception to the
extraordinary manner in which the crew of ’B6 was
handled. Mr. Trimble may have been the right
man in the right place, but it is the manner of
picking and not the picked one, with which we are
now dealing. The choice lay between Messrs.
Trimble and Kennedy, but the runners of the
show could not agree as to who the man should
be, so they left the decision to Mr. William Dind. a
gentleman who had retired from active aquatios
before the present generation of rowing men had
made a start. Imbecile the N.S.W. Rowing Asso-
ciation has ever been; but it, perhaps, never before
showed its imbecility to 6uch an extent as over
the International eight-oar race of 188 J. We don’t
grudge the Victorians their victory. They de-
served it, for theirs was a crew of splendid, well-
trained men.
* * *
It now seems very likely indeed that the
long-discussed project of sending an eight-oar
amateur crew from Australia to compete at Hen-
ley regatta will soon take definite shape. Mel-
bourne is moving in the matter, and the main dif-
ficulty—which should be a surmountable one—now
appears to be re funds. In this matter it is pretty
evident the colonies will have to act separately,
as apart from the question of expediency it would
be well nigh impossible, owing to radical differ-
ences in styles of oarmanship and the impractica-
bility of getting Victorians and Cornstalks to
practise together, to send a really’good coalition
crew.
* ♦ *
Big attendance and splendid weather at
Canterbury Park Race Club meeting on Saturday.
Michael refused the first jump ia the Hurdle Race
and Hatter and Javelin running a dead heat, the
owners agreed to divide. Fuse, ridden like a
tradesman by young Kelso, won the Flying Stakes
after a great set-to with Mia Mia; tbe Selling Race
fell a victory to Solo by half a length from Re-
cruit ; Goldflnder made an easy win of the April
Handicap from Pirate; Recruit, at 5 to 3 on, won
the Prince of Wales’ Stakes from start to finish;
and Goldfinder made a second win in the Ladies’
Bracelet.
* * *
The benefit tendered Jem Smith, the Eng-
lish pugilist, after his meeting with Greenfield,
proved a big boom, the Marquis of Queensberry,
Lord Clifford, and many other noblemen showing
amongst the audienoe. The racing world was also
largely represented.
A Bulletin correspondent (a new chum
speotator of the mill between Lees and Farnan)
was much Impressed by the positive gentility of
the crowd round the ropes. At any similar affair
in England the attention of the eritic is somewhat
distracted from the fight inside the ring by tbe
numberless encounters outside. If Jones and
Smith are fighting for a purse “ subscribed by a
few noblemen and gentlemen,” the partisans of
Jones and Smith usually shed a good deal more
blood than their respective champions. Any ex-
pression of opinion about the probable result of
the battle is dangerous. “Jones ’as got ’im beat,’
says someone who can’t restrain his feelings. “ He
ain’t, yer , take that!” says his next door neigh-
bour. The consuming desire of 99 per cent, of the
spectators is to gouge somebody’s eye out, and
most of them strive hard to accomplish their end.
At the Lees-Farnan affair there were none of these
side shows, and even the encouragement yelled
out to either man was couched in the language of
courtesy. The new chum, aooustomed to hear
such gentle exhortations as “ knock his
ini” (the second dash referring to internal ar-
rangements) and “kill the deadl” was posi-
tively non-plussed by the mild manners of the
Australian “ fancy.” And when he found that no-
body tried to “ clean him out ” he went away like
one bewildered. Hitherto the etiquette prevail-
ing at our “scraps” has never seemed particu-
larly high-toned to us. But to the lowest depth
there is evidently a lower deep.
* * *
Lovely weather and the prospect of good
facing drew together an immense eoncourse
at the r pening day of the A.J.C autumn meeting.
Mr. A A. Devlin made his debut before a Sydney
public, and his starting was so good that it would
appear tie A.J.C. have made no mistake in their
newly-appointed wielder of the flag. The ehivoo
opened with the Hurdle Race, which was won
cleverly by Mr- Long’s The Agent, with the
crusher of 13st. 51b., by a length and a half from
Drummer. Nelson won the Autumn Stakes from
start to finish, Malua a length away second, and
Bheet Anchor and Tempe ran a dead heat for
third place. Mr. White’s TrideDt and Tamarisk
finished first and second for the A J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, My Lord running into a plaoe; and
the same gentleman secured similar places with
Matchlock and Monte Christo in the St. Leger,
First Prince third. Crossfire won the Doncaster
Handicap by half a length from Cairo, Siivermine
third; and Gentility won the Trial Stakes, after a
great race with Sorato; Bravo third.
* * *
The final contest for the Association Cup,
between the Warwicks and Belvideres, will pro-
bably be postponed till next season.
a * •
The M.C.C. Eleven have arrived in Eng-
land.
* * *
The muoh-abused Cottam fully justified
his inclusion in the junior intercolonial team by
making top score in the match, and those who
were loudest in their condemnation mußt now
feel correspondingly small.
Baseball is no doubt a very attractive
game—in Yankeeland—but this is New South
Wales, and we do not think the Yanks will find
the game sufficiently “ acclimatised ” to more t han
nil the Association Cricket Ground at 3a. (id. a
head. Except in rare cases, the entrance to the
people's ground should not be more than 61.,
whatever may be charged *t the grand stand.
* * *
Canterbury course had a very narrow
squeak, for an addition to its liet of killed, when
Robin Hood came to grief on Saturday last, and it
w to be hoped there is truth in the report that the
Wntorhury Club has s:me improvements in the
running course In contemplation. Rumour has it
the club intend to buy a street adjoining the
course, which will enable a lengthening of the
running ground and a softening of the turns
that are at present so dangerous. This will ne-
cessitate a removal of the grand stand and a big
outlay of the needful, but it is only by a lengthen-
ing of the running ground that the committee
can hope to save life and limb, and make the ven-
ture a success in the future When Robin Hood
fell it was miraculous how the jockey-we think
Robertson was in the saddle—escaped; when th 9
horse jumped up, Robertson’s foot was jammed m
the stirrup-iron, and he was dragged some yards
before the horse stopped and looked round at him,
as much as to say, “ Pull your foot out, old man,’*
and the jock was not long in accepting the in-
vitation.
» * *
The usually gloomy little town of Geelong
Is in a positive state of ferment. The men cluster
together at street corners engaged in angry dis-
pute. The womenkind have a new subjaot for dis-
cussion over their afternoon tea. The local press
has at last found a question of all absorbing
interest The eyes of all tne worl are fixed
anxiously upon Geelong. J. Kirby, hading foot-
baller of the “Pivot,” has tendered his resignation
to his club.
* * < ♦
At Biddulph, Eng., on 6th March, Samuel
Lawson, 64 years of age, and James Gaze, 28, two
pitmen, fought for £5. After two hours, during
which 45 rounds had been fought, the old gentle-
man broke a wrist and caved ia.
The O'Sullivan's peech.
E. W. O’Sullivan, who appears to hive sworn on
the Book that the name of Queanbeyan shall re-
sound from Wooilahra to Geelong, and who has
pledged himself to a quarterly visit to his consti-
tuents, addressed the population of that antique
village from Phil. Pooley’s balcony on Saturday
night last. It was a weird and memorable scene.
If there had been a moon it would have bung, a
strange and ghostly disc, far away in the East over
the dim, mysterious mountains that brood in
silence, and hold their wonderful secrets of untold
silver, and if things had been conducted properly,
a spectral mist would have risen from the silent
river and floated upward in grey columns like
phantom arms to Heaven. As it happened,
though, there were neither of these things, and
as it was pay-night on the railway works, |the
horny-handed swarmed in on the footpaths
and defied old residents to shift them, and ex-
pressed their willingness to “ have a lash for it ”
without prejudice Just as Mr. O’Sullivan was
about to commence, the local contingent of the
Salvation Army, consisting of two uniformed
warriors, a reformed boy, one doubtful soul, a
penitent ganger, and a blood-and-flre sheep-dog,
marched up with flaring flambeaux, and took
their stand at Nugent's corner. Tnenceforward
the proceedings consisted of a lingual war between
the local member and the local captain. BAh
men looked fit and toed the mark up to time.
O’Sullivan got away to a good start, and had
almost reached the part where the labourer is
trampled under the pitiless heel of a selfish pluto-
cracy when the captain took a loDg wind, and an-
nounced that there was' a fountain filled with
blood, a statement received with voluble derision
by the multitude. The combat thickened. Many
prominent citizens freely backed the member to
talk the immortal hogsiard out of the captain.
We clung to a lamp-post, and set our teeth hard,
and listened. We heard Mr. O Sullivan’s speech
distinctly. This is the most of it:—“ I say em-
phatically that I will not”—" Bbun the devil and all
his works, and flee while yet there is time from the
unspeakable horror of Eternal hell”—“ which has
many representatives in the present Assembly,
and which, I am happy to say ’’-“storms and boils
and rages in seething and whirling billows of tem-
pestuous cerulean flames for all “ that I care
I have said already, and I say again, that I am not
the Helot of a clique, or the tool of a class,
but the earnest, and I trust, useful servant
of ”—“ the same wily serpent that seduced the
mother of mankind, and still sways its devilish
power over”—“the squatters as a class. There
are among them hundreds, probably thousands,
who have expended years of industry and fortunes
of capital to oompass “ the eternal damnation
of millions of souls . Right here thera was a
wild stampede of the public in the direction of the
army.' At first we thought they were simply “ off
to Charley Jones’s”—no outsider can conceive
how suddenly and unexpectedly thirst fastens on
a man in Queanbeyan—but we were out of it.
There was a fight, a real, physical, genuine
fight proceeding right in the centre of the
ranks—no shadowy engagement between man
and the Devil, but the square thing be-
tween man and man. It seems someone had
“ sicked ” his unregistered cur on the army dog
and also taken the liberty of throwing lumps of
virgin earth among Booth’s boys. The captain,
forgetting his adversary on the balcony for a mo-
ment, turned to his new assailant to remonstrate.
The latter at once “stoushed” him, while the re-
formed boy smashed into the general public in an
aimless sort of way, and the doubtful soul offered
to cash anything on the surface of the globe
For 10 minutes there was nothing visible but a
surging hrieking mass of bodies writhing in
the dust, after which everyone seemed satis-
fied. The Army withdrew to their proper hall,
wailing a hymn, and the concourse went back to
hear O’Sullivan, who explained his past actions
and future intentions amid much enthusiasm.
This is very sure—whatever Mr. o’Bullivan may
be as a statesman (which Time will decide) he is
victor.and lord of Queanbeyan, and cits as firmly
on that constituency as Leo the Thirteenth on his
throne. As a local member, he has probably no
living equal, and those who ran against him at
the last election, either as candidates or voters,
swear by him to a man. Gall for Alfred’s Pikkax 1
Wolfe's Schnapps is a tonic and stimulan
which v annot be surpassed. Ask for and obtain
Wolfe's.
YE TERRIBLE TALE OF YE SHOPGIRL, AND
YE CHURCH SOPRANO.
Belinda Brown was her name, and she was a
bride of 12 months and a day. We wiah to be par-
ticular with this chunk of imformation, because,
as Garden Honey would say, Tempus fugit, and
moment by moment the days grow short* r with
usali. The truth of this assertion may not burse
on our readers in full bloom at once, but it will
gradually grow upon them in a style that cannot
be forgotten. To return to our mutton, however,
Belinda Brown had a voice that could bore a hole
In a seven-inch plank, and snorted louder than the
snore of a Ministerial stonewatler when an Oppo-
sition member is doing a speii of “stonewalling ”
Selina Smith was the shop-girl’s name, and she
sang in the Bame choir as the blastiferous Brown,
but she had an organ so sweet that she could coax
down sparrows off a telegraph line to listen to it.
Consequently the e was a North Pole coolness be-
tween the pair. By some strange, and wholly un-
accountable means, it came to Belinda’s 6x4 ears
that the summer shopping season had “ arrove.’’
It was the festive season when nothing but the
bob-tail top knot of the calico clerkess is seen
above the festive shop-keeper’s board, and tower-
ing pile of mousseline de lalnes, and pates-ae-foie-
gras, and the liar, cause the millinery counters to
groan beneath thiir jackass loads, when Belinda
trooped into the emporium in whlca Selina was
engaged, and after giving her silvery-throated
rival a ton of trouble looking for something “just
a shade lighter," was hauled up short by Selina’s
delicate hiat: “I would try this remnant if I were
you, Mrs. Brown— it hides the dirt so admirably.”
‘‘Bare wretoh thou diest in one act to hurdy-gurdy
music, ’ exclaimed Belinda, and then stabbing
Belinda fatally dead with a bin pin she strangled
herself with her own garter, anu beiDg rich, died
“respected by all who knew her." Country
papers please copy, and likewise add that ail the
hide-covering a prudent mamma requires to do
for her boys to-day oan be done at the boss
Juvenile Outfitters, Summerileld and Co., 235 and
237 Pitt-street, Sydney.
What everybody says must be true. All
who have used WOLFfI’S SCHNAPPS say it is the
best stimulant.
Q-rea/t -Attraction!
<3-reat -Attraction I
Gi-zea,t -Attraction I
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE.
Jones, Lawson Bros, and Co.,
Practical Cabinet Makers and Upholsterers,
39 GASTLEREAGH-STREE7,
Near Hunter-street.
The large and spacious warehouse is close to the Hunter-street Tram-station.
THE SHOW-ROOMS ARE LARGE AND WELL LIGHTED.
THE STOCK COMPRISES
Cabinet and Upholstered Furniture,
Bedsteads and Bedding,
Brusssis’ Carpets, Wilton Carpets,
Tapestry Carpafs, Linoleums,
Floorcloths, Curtains,
and Table Covore.
ill Ms His Mil is Plain Tim,
AT
LOWEST OABH PRICES.
VISIT i
THE NEW FURNITURE and CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH* STREET,
(Near Hunter-street).
HORDERNS
ON THB
BrldciS-eia. Sill-
II STAY ill COSSET DEFARTMEBT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/(?
CO
C r}
#'o
uoi
[7
%
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSK®,
2b. lid., 3s. 3d., 3b. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12b 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS. 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
b.—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention*


BLISS INDEED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alfbed's “ vivid description ” man is once more
on the war-path. Of late there has been such a
deplorable paucity of “ Revolting Murders,”
“dnockiug Outrages,” “Terrible Fatalities,”
“Sickening Disclosures,” &c.,that he is evidently
“gravelled lor the lack of matter,” and has to laij
back on sub-leader writing, but even here his
ghoulish gioatiags over horrors heaped on horrors’
heads betray him. He has so long been engaged
In laying bare the miauteßt possibilities of a fair
from a six-storey building, or shedding the luH
glare of modern thought on a fractured thigh’
that soma of tha style that held us fascinated in
the roaring “ Woolioomooloo Tragedy ’ days wil 1
obtrude. Some of the bodies washed ashore from
the Taiaroa had been mutilated by sharks. There
Is no special reason to suppose that this happened
beiore they were dead—but let the sub-leader
writer speak:
“ Tnis fact, taken in coi junction with the life-
belt, suggests the possibility ot a fate for these
poor creatures beiore which the imagination
Shnnk3 with horror, and iu comparison with
wfaica the speedy death-burial waves of the deep
sea would have been bliss indeed, u o think of the
helpless beings floating in the seething waters,
the living bodies being torn limb from limD by
the ravenous monsters of the deep, sickens the
heart.”
“ The speedy death-burial waves of the deep sea
would have been blits indeed!” To him—in
song :
Scribe of the Sharkbitel wielder of the magic
Weird pen that thrills us with all tales of lear,
Chronicler of fratricides and doings tragic,
Herald of throats unseamed from ear to ear!
Singer of massacres and mutilations,
Siinger of savage suicidal screed,
Full well we know your grrisly ministrations
hc/In Sussex-street are hailed as bliss indeed.
Yours is the gift to blazon every story
Of secret stab, and gaping ghastly gash,
Yours the one brain to weave a gory glory
Round tramcar sacrifice or railway-smash;
Does some mad monster with a six-pound hammer
Brain all his family ? Men rush to read,
And swooning in the glamour of your grammar,
Exclaim, “ Here's something like! Here’s bliss
indeed!”
To all occurrences that most distress men,
All deeds that make their hair stand up on end,
Your Horrid Nib, O gruesomest of pressmen,
A miracle of terror seems to lend;
Your deaths head diction, your clay-cold recital
Of stifled groans from dying men who bleed
From twenty knife-thrusts, each in places vital,
“Takes well”—in fact, is voted bii6B indeed.
What are you like ? Are you a genuine gloater
Oa crime—a worshipper of Thuggish art,
Who ail day sees a knife at every throat, or
A shadowy dagger close to every heart ?
Do you thus muse when we, unknowing, pass you,
“ His form was rigid! many a clammy bead
Stood on bis battered brow of livid ash hue!”
Then sigh, “If this were true, ’twere bliss
indetd ” ?
Are you, like other men, of blood and sinew
And bone, and do you sometimes laugh and
weep ?
Does this straDge craving for the ghastly in you
Make your own flesh (if you have any) creep ?
Have you a family, or e’en a missus ?
Where is your home? We know your average
soreed,
If your address ii the Necropolis, is
To ail the other goblins bliss indeed.
Our own obituary slDger, Daley,
At times could rival your weird prose. At times
He gaily sang of subjects Abigaily
From his Parnassian ebarnei-house of rhymes;
But he could see beyond Death’s mystic portal,
You lead us to it, and no further lead—
Will you “ do ” murders in the realms immortal ?
The Press up there would count it bliss indeed.
Yet still you may not be a demigorgon,
Although your horrors almost stop our heart,
But one selected by the People s Organ
As being most proficient in the art
Of curbing up the gore of greasy matrons
Who on their doorsteps of an eveuing read,
While round them literature's deadhead patrons,
Tossed slipshod slatterns, think it bliss indeed.
You may be gentle, after all, and human
And have a heart that not for any gold
Would let you hurt a hair of man or woman,
Or wish a pang to mortal young or old
(That’s as a private citizen), but when you
Are building “ copy ” that will scoop the greed
You probably cry ’‘Ruth, avaunt!” and then you
Wade in and give your readers bliss indeed.
When duty calls you, like a Press Parrhasius,
Near the triangle in the yard you stand,
And watch the quivering flesh and count the
lashes
And write down all with an unerring hand,
“He screams for mercy,” you jot down; “he's
fainting I
’Tis done! The panting criminal is freed;”
And think as you jog home: “With my word-
painting
’Twill make the paper hum—here's bliss indeed I”
Has the great sea upon some wild shore drifted
A drowned disfigured form? "Ah! here’s a
prize!”
You cry: “ The fish, I see his ears have shifted,
And crabs, or something, hollowed out his eyes ?
Was he alive, I wonder when they did it ?
I’ll write that down so all who run may read!”
Your readers shiver, and cry: " God forbid it! ’
But think the mere suggestion bliss indeed.
Is there a murder done in some grim hovel
Where Chinamen and harlots congregate ?
You whet your soul with a “ Deteotive ” novel,
And on the crimes of city life dilate,
And from your brain your sombre pen will roll a
Cortege of midnight metaphors knock-kneed,
While third-edition readers cry: “A Z jla!
What photographs of vice! Here’s bliss indeed.”
13 there a colliery-explosion somewhere,
And many hapless miners sent to doom ?
You tell how quivering lips with horror dumb
were,
And speak of “panic-stricken shocks” and
“ gloom
Soul-awoing,” and go on in such a manner,
So agonise men's hearts and make them bleed
That the last copies sometimes fetch a “tanner,’;
While yelling newsboys think it bliss indeed.
Does a man fall from the Post Office tower ?
In wor-is that tingle to our very souls,
You tell us how “ some forty-five feet lower,
He struck successively three scaffold poles,
From which rebounding, shattered, stunned, and
bloody
He hurtled through the air with lightning-speed
Until a shapeless mass with siokening thud he
lay on the cruel flagstones I” Bliss indeed.
Will this go on for aye ? There is no knowing
But ’tis improbable that down below
Where our sad spectres are most likely going,
We'll be subjected to this wail of woe,
For Dante, who was there, has never hinted
Of evening papers. But, say I—there you’d
feed
Upon such horrors as were never printed
And turn out matter that were bliss, indeed.
Consider what a monster circulation
You’d work up—how the bat-winged souls wou’d
flit
About the office to get information
Of all the fearful doffigs in the Pit;
Let’s see—you’d write : “ Last Tuesday was a
scorcher,
The furnace-blast was run at double speed,
Compared with it our usual days of torture
Might be described as being bliss indeed.
To-day a female friend was found garotted
Near Malebolge—her face was drawn and set;
About the nostrils blood was oaked and clotted,
The tongue lolled out, and was as black as jet,
A wave of crime appears to sweep through Hades,
We warn our fair subscribers to take heed
Bound Malebolge is no safe place for ladies
At night.” Oh, would not that be bliss indeed?
Or “Hideous Tragedy: A shocking rumour
Reaches the office as we go to press,
Which has thrown quite a sable pall of gloom o’er
The public of the Pit of Hopelessness,
From what we learn it seems a new-chum spectre
But lately from the flesh-in Sydney freed
Came down disguised in Toohey Brothers’ nectar
(Which, to our readers, would be bliss indeed).
This reckless ghost, who once was much respected
In the best circles, when, at Potts’s Point
He dwelt, by Csrberus was seizad, dissected
SWith iron claws that rent him joint from joint,
Tore cut his entrails, crushed his bones to powder,
Reduced him to a gory pulp with speed,
Then gorged himself, the meanwhile bellowing
louder
Than fifty Waterloos,” ’twere bliss indeed.
Or this: “A demon who has been suspected
For some time past has, owing to the skill
Of our reporter, been at length detected
Endeavouring to work a private still;”
Or this, “ A forty-headed hydra, lately
(From which the management propose to breed)
Has been aoolimatised. ’Tis said ’twill greatly
Accelerate our torments.” Bliss indeed I
But, no! They could not be accelerated
Where you had been for any length of time;
So we can only pray, when you're translated
It will he high unto a fairer clime.
Whatever depth of utter gloom awaits us
We will not gnash our teeth, if ’tis decreed
That there your “copy ”—how the thought elates
us !
May never enter. That wore bliss indeed.
HOW HE MUST SUFFER.
“ Good marnin' Mrs. O’Toole! An’ so
they tell me yer husband is sick, an’ what
sames ter be the mather wid the poor
man?”
“ Ah! Mrs. Murphy, he has had a ter-
rible attack of spine in his back; he’s
[?] it a cornin’ on this long while.”
Radical influences are at work all oyer
England, and have at last penetrated to that ultra-
Conservative institution the University of Oxford,
whioh has just decided to strike Divinity out
of the obligatory curriculum Students, there-
fore, in future will not have to coach themselves
up to a knowledge of the marital eccentricities of
Solomon, or the athletic achievements of Samson.
This one step presages others, and it seems quite
possible that within the next 100 years or so, the
University of Oxford will begin to afford some
really useful teaohing to its students.
Wolfe’s Schnapps strengthens and braces
up the system against disease. Be sure you ob-
tain Wolfe's.
Mb, D« Cotjboy Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New 8ob"h
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual ol
Minerals,” Miuiug Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Beresford Chambers,
63 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Bodily comfort is the accompaniment of hoalih-
ful vigour, and it will return when Wolfe's
Schnapps is employed.
18. SCOTT’S ELD COSSETS MI BELTS
are universally approved by leading physicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors
a sthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis. I oss of Voice
hysteria, Cutaneous Diesases, Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, f alpitation,
and have cur-d some of the most obstinate and distressing cases, after all remedies
(se-called) have failed.
Our Roods should not be confounded with the many spurious and worthless Electric and Magnetic
appliances foisted upon the market by unscrupulous and irresponsible parties. We challenge the
u to , p £ o<ll^ 3e ®° effective and cheap curative appliances as our Electric Corsets and Belts,
Hair. Flesh, and Tooth Brushes Electric Insoles and Generators. Our “Electric” Corsets and Belt!
are more effective than all the magnetic appliances ever invented, however high priced, as our testi-
monials unimpeachably prove.
attempt to substitute inferior and spurious articles for
Dr. Scott s Electric, the Pall Mali Electric Association desire to caution the public against pur-
pf the following goods:—*“ Dr. Scott s Electric Corsets, Dr. Scott’s Electric
°£Otts Electric Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic Generators, and Dr,
Scott s Electric Insoles ’ Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric ” and the name of Dr. Scott!
as also does the box containing same. The extent of our trade, and the marked appreciation of the
public, having induced certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless goods, having something of
the general form and external appearance of ours, and variously styled “ Magneto-Electrio or Electric
u 0, -i e r ®?P® c ff u by ask that parties who have been influenced by the many testimonials we
publish, ail of which are strictly genuine, or the universal reputation of our goods, to give electricity
t s O6 that the name of Dr. Scott and the word “ Electrio ” appear on every article purchased,
.ill I?™ ha ye recently registered a new trade mark—an oval label with our local address,
Pall Mall Electric Association, 54 Margaret-street, Sydney, N.5.W.,” in marginal lines, encircling the
device ot a mailed hand holding a group ot thunderbolts (see out annexed), a fac-Simile of which will
appear on all goods manufactured by Dr. Scott. Beware of fraud.
SiATE£|\j
P/W
M
THE
£
*2B
?S5
NO 14
LINED WITH MEDICATED FELT
SATEEM,
5
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets and Bei'ts.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, eneircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of electricity the functions of the
nervous organisation. Easy, graceful, and
elegant. They are worn by the principal
Royal Families of Europe, by the elite of Ameri-
can and Continental Society, and are daily en-
dorsed by over one million ladies, and as they do
not exoeed in cost the ordinary goods of other
maters, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or il'-feeling from
any cause, if you seem “ pretty well,” yet lack
energy, and do not “feel up to the mark;” if you
suffer from disease, we beg you to at once try
those remarkable curatives. They cannot, and do
not, injure like medicine. Always doing good,
never harm. There is no shock or sensation felt
in wearing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results ; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently the first
dey, and often during the first hour they are worn
their wonderful curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nervous and slug-
gish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health-giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practise
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnetods in place of the ordinary oorset steels.
They are all equally charged, different only In
quality and design. They are elegant in shape and
finish, made after the best French patterns, and
warranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no others.
Most of the above applies equally to the Eleotrio
Belt for gents.
These goods are sent out in a handsome box. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by whioh
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we; will qend
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover post-
age.
The prices are as foliows:—
A Corsets 15 h B Corsets 10/8
C Corsets 8/6 D Corsets 6/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, 8/6
Electric Belt, 15/
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... 5/- No. 2 Hair Brush ... 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush ... 9/8 No. 4 Hair Brush ... lt/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/6 Flesh Brush 13/6
Tooth Brush 2/6 Curlers 2/6
Insoles 2/6.
All Chemists or Druggists, or direct post free,
one shilling extra.
Military Hair Brushes, pair in case, handsome
goods, 30/- per set. Post free, £ll2s. 6d.
Electric Horse Brush, for lameness and stiffness
in horses, £1 Is. Post free, £l3s. 6d.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 MARGARET STREET, SIDNEY.
Wood-Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. A. EAY & CO., CINCINNATI)
AND CARRY - A LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
|3r EVERT REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK,
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.


ttarcvy €§£> 21# lots.tn.oar,
24 O’Connell* street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DIALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from 483, Catalogues post tree.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS fox BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations ore recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies,
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without diseovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and t
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
(the name of “ Louis.”
- May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
*send. patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
OOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPOSTERS OT
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOEB;
Also, Manufacturers of
Tlie finest quality of Goods in the above lines,
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S 3 OH
S 3 OH
Carnrick’s Cod Liver OMMilk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength;
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (dig ested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasa nt taste and smell of the oil, and
t i m , a , ke / it! a f sweet as cream; very p alatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great? value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
_ it. .? n., or any Other Emulsion? Whence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most oerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophospbites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. *
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers & Nurses
Carnrick s Solllblo It! *OO d for Infants, Invalids,
i and Aged Persons, is'the most nutritious, palatnble, and easily-digested Infant’s
| Pood ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone> and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed .upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
‘CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD" is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
m nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
mr . . L SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
gaw _THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
HP” THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPAN Y (LIMITED ,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
ard UPWARDS for shorter periodqj FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O in the Saving's Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGrON Gr.
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
peter murphy, Proprietor,
Good Table and Reasonable Terms,
J. MURPHY’S
Control Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OP KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite Cleorge-strcet.
Money Lent.at tlie Lowest Rate of Interest
In tins city*
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the &
per Month.
Loans on Goldand Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
fyt rs L deßcriptl^s«of Por<: abie Property, granted
at Hates never before attempted in this Colony.
foreign Coins
J. Murpbv'f) Central Loan and Dia-
SS?oG^o™tr r e et, ,nt &nd Ltverp ° 018treet «
PAUL LiEBE
Richly J^coMMENnnj
JY THE MEDICAL
5
0
ol
1/erv
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARE
REJECTED AT All CHEMIST SIM
*IO Z 0 ozBOTTLES
0 ARNOLD BBRIOCr s T
HOWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
HOWLANDS EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from D*.
Redwood, Ph D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
HOWLANDS’ MA? ASSAIL OIL can
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suitea for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
TOE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTRBBT.
Paid-up Capital... ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. *. 675,000 ZZT
This Bank has Agents in.all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon“ls the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
G
ENTLEMEN’B CLOTHES
AND CLEANED
REPAIRED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OI)
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPER! DRIES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
pr Carriage paid by mall all over the colonic I
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£B LADY’S BALB.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
* pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemise#
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longoloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALB.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of o<. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchement*, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, whien we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of M.
ISs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials)—Silks. Velvets,' &o.—with
Brices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
: applied to.
RILBY \ BROTHERS,
OxfbrA'y&rrttt, &yda«y.
Originators of the canned M dales of Draper?
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL: {•
It CURES where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as it
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDN.EYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CURE AND A SPECIFIC/
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder/
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Spur
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains in the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urine.
HEED THE ‘WARNING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease tha,t
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms*
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
Will be nipped in the bud. Note the following/ »I
KIDNEY
DISEASE
/ Pain in Small of Back, Pain in
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in. so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
v been used without good effect. ■
DYSPEPSIA
I Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach, Bad Taste
in the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation. Dr.'
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia. _ / „ .
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any ;
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain v
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Manufacturing Company}
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON&CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
-■ - ■■ ■ ■■■'*
i Country Journalist*.—Leaders, Telegrams)
. and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
jrary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Buujtin Office.
mo
literal
e
or
THERE are many men In this colony who arc.
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees hls
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—-in the
full enjoyment of manhood's greatest privUage-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli*
tariness, and shunning society generally. •.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines be
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief,and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business, pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 12s, or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2a. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Gotjlbtjrn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beet Intown remedy for RHEUMATISM,
HEADACHE, TOOTHACiS,
TRAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS. SCALDS, &c- and
taken internally cures DIARRHOEA, ftTSEKiaRT,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interna aches
tnd pains, - .
price, 2/- Sold Bverywbere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPrxroR, ;>
MELBOIJSNIi -A-ISTD dT'DNEY.


A LITTLE TRUTH ABOUT A. G.
TAYLOR IN LONDON.
LONDON GOSSIP FROM “ THE BULLETIN S ”
AGENT-GENERAL.
London, 12th March.
Dear Bulletin,—l have a theme that
would admit of sensational handling 1 . But it does
not require it. I imagine that on tbij, as on all
Subjects, you will care only for the unadorned
truth (the gods only know how sparingly it is
dealt out by the N.S.W. Press 1) and so the truth
you shall have; only the truth, and nothing but
the truth. The whole truth I cannot promise you
—hence the gratifying adjective in the title of this
article. Such things as I, to my intense regret,
am obliged to reserve were whispered to me in
confidence by " Mudgee Taylor ” himself. They
concern others besides himself, and—well, you
know the man, with his simple loyalty which
smells of the eucalyptus and the wattle-gum-he
sealed my lips and pen. And until he can be per-
suaded to remove that seal sundry colonial or
Anglo-Colonial “ rotters ” may breathe freely.
As it is, I shall, doubtless, get into trouble
for unfolding this tale. But lam used to that
now, and am prepared to risk it once more. In
this case I judge silence to be copper instead of
pure metal, so here goes to break it I
* * *
I need not dwell upon the celebrated case,
Taylor y. the Speaker of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly. Everyone knows of the big victory
the “long” young cornstalk has won: and his in-
domitable pluck in coming 10,000 miles to fight his
cause (the cause of liberty and common-sense) is,
while lam writing—and now that he has heen sue-
tmfvl—the talk and admiration of N.S.W. Bless
you! it is also the talk and admiration of the
Anglo-Australians here. Why, when I saw him to-
day Taylor had actually been lunching with Mr.
I«tt, that truly great man, who, whether as agent
either for a professional oarsman, a Parliamentary
candidate, a philanthropic society, or a colonial
evening newspaper, is ever and always pre-
eminent and irresistible. I may state that the
young member for Mudgee did not lunch with Mr.
Charles Lett before the happy, and to many people
and papers (including the mighty organ for which
Mr. 0. L., as I hinted some time ago, manipulates
cabjes), unexpected conclusion of his case.
• * *
Among your travelled readers, many—
possibly the ms jority—have, at some time or the
other, “aone steerage,” or, what is the same
thing, third-class. Those who have not must not
consider themselves among the “ much-travelled.’*
Now, the man travelling in the saloon who ought
to be In the steerage is in an uncomfortable posi-
tion, unless he has a moral hide like—but no I I
venture to assert, however, that the man, travel-
ling steerage, who ought to be in the saloon, is in
• far more pitiable condition. He is under as
serious social disadvantages as the other— without
the substantial consolation of good “ tucker,” and
•o forth. But how much are those disagreeables
aggravated when the unfortunate traveller has
women-folk with him ? Taylor, as you probably
know, came home in the third-class with his wife,
a gentle, retiring bush-flower, to whom roughing
It on the sea was terribly new, and his mother, an
old lady of past 70. Fate, with pleasant irony, sent
home in the saloon of the same ship, among many
other fortunate colonists, Mr. T. C. Binny, for the
benefit of his health-I mean to represent the
N.S.W. Mining Department at the Indian and
Colonial Exhibition. I want to know—and my
curiosity is shared by many others-how it oame
about that the political party to which Taylor be-
longed permitted him to leave Sydney in the steer-
age of a mail-boat with a few paltry pounds in his
pooket. Probably A.G.T. and his friends will tell
me to mind my own business.
• • •
Well, everybody on board the steamer of
course soon knew who the lanky cornstalk in the
third class was. The paesengers forward eyed
him askance, as by a supreme effort of deglutition,
he burled the morning “ burgoo ” and th-j midday
"cag-mag,” or as he worried round the limited
deok in search of a quiet and comfortable corner
for hiagentler companions. “If that wasn’t good
enough for him, why didn’t he crimson well travel
saloon with his women? They (the virtuous
Steerage passengers) wouldn’t have any truck with
them sort o’ people.” But with the saloon passen
gers who knew Taylor, either personally or by
repute, who understood his errand, admired his
Pluck, and respected his abilities, it was, of course,
very different. They visited him daily, and alto-
gether, what with sundry bottles of wine, dessert,
cigars, books, cheerful conversation, and genuine
sympathy, these kind saloon passengers from Aus-
tralia brightened the weary way considerably for
their three friends for’ard. Have I not insisted
before what a hearty generous fellow the average
Australian abroad is ? Let us, as Gladstone would
say, proceed dispassionately to Inquire and Inves-
tigate. Mr. A. G. Taylor had but one civility of
aay kind extended to him by his fellow-country-
men from the saloon of the mailboat. Mr. T. C.
filnay, with a thoughful courtesy that is beyond
praise, one day sent him a book to read, a book
oa mining subjects—one of those laborious com-
pilations of Harrie Wood’s, which would, doubt-
less, be found instructive, if one had but sufficient
eoneentrativeness to apply to their study. When
any little luxury chanc.d to find its way from
“aft” into Mrs. Taylor’s lap, a coin simultane-
ously found its way from Mr. Taylor’s shallow
poeket into the itchiag palm of steward, baker,
or oook. Well, after all, it takes a great deal of
hgrd, rough fare to kill man or woman, and one
may even live through six weeks of third-olass
sleeping accommcdaticn with its close, sweaty at-
mosphere. Taylor, with his wife and mother,
arrived ip England, and placing himself under the
guidance of the third-class steward, found humble
board and shelter at the house of that gentleman’s
mother at Stratford-by-Bow, upon very modest
terms. Sixty Chobbam-road, Stratford, E., ij a
wretched tenement in a wretched bye-street In
one of the most wretched localities In East Lon-
don. Stratford Is not only in the East, but in tne
far East— beyond Whitechapel, Stepney, and Bow.
When I say that It Is “down near the docks,” I
eipress volumes, even to the uninitiated, Jma
Igine, you dwellers In Macquarie-street mansions,
Randwiok villas, Petersham cottages, and bush
bungalows (even If they be of bark and contain
but one room) under the most genial of suns, and
the bluest of burnished skies, you to whom the
word “basement” sounds like Chinese—imagine
spending a winter—the most cruel England has
seen for many years—in one of the poorest quar-
ters of the greatest city in the world, your bed-
room on the ground floor, and your “living” room
underground, otherwise, in the “basement.” Are
your imaginations elastic? Can you feel the bitter
cold? Can you see the dirty trodden snow on the
□arrow roadway without? Can you hear the land-
lady swearing because the taps are frozen, and she
can get no water? Can you see the group of “un-
employed” at the corner yonder trying to stamp
/he chill out of their limbs? You must compre-
lend all that, and more, if you wish to catch a
Simmering conception of Taylor’s winter in Lon-
lon. You must feel the sickening anxiety of a
lomlng issue that may make or break your life.
Cou must assume raiment grotesquely poor; and
ou must diet yourself—meat, once weekly, on
undaya for dinner; week day dinner, cheap fish,
x liver, or tripe; breakfast, bread and tea; sup-
er, ditto ditto. You must also feel that even
hese poor conditions, which are shared by your
dfe and mother, may at any moment change for
he worse through the failure of funds.
* * *
I was present at the first hearing of Tay-
tr s case. That long lean figure clad in the rough
ell-worn clothes was a strange one to appear as
le hero of such a cause before such a court. He
as supported by one colonist—not a slimy, empty-
jaded, full-stomached, “ returned Australian
it a plain journalist, the sort of man that
ouldn’t have his name mentioned for the wealth
Wilson. In fact, it is among pressmen alone
at Taylor has found friends in London. You will
>t be surprised to hear that he was terribly nor-
ms on that critical occasion; so much so, that
3 were apprehensive that he would be unable to
eak. The want of square living was painfully
parent. When the time came for him to speak,
wever, ho surprised some of us. If his stomach
is empty, his head at least was full, and warming
his work, he proceeded logically and eloquently
plead his cause.
* * *
When I first met Taylor here a comparison
tween the genuine stuff and the rubbish in the
y of representative Australianism immediately
ced itself upon me. Dieu merci , I have seen
Representative Australians ” here—men who
b fatly, clothe richly, dine in West End man-
tis, haunt aristocratic clubs, and spend their
onial gains in the desperate effort to climb over
kitchen-wall into English society—men who
de fortunes out your way by jewing and
eping, aided by the winkings of corrupt and
>ec!ie Governments; or penniless adventurers,
o snavelled unto themselves wealthy Australian
es. But here was a representative Australian
an entirely new order—a typical cornstalk—
d and educated in the colony which gave him
zb, and at the age of 27—although without
oenoe and money—a prominent member of
t colony’s Legislature. A bush genius, whose
t weaknesses are his honesty which is too
ling, and his feelings which are too sensitive,
>d before me in shabby bushman’s attire, with
look of a bushman in his face and a bushman’s
> in his mouth, although unfortunately not
i a bushman’s feed behind his waistcoat. It
not worth the while of representative Austen-
s' to take him up. For one thing they never
lined for a moment that he would be success.
Taylor is the last man in the world to accept
ity, and representative Australians are not
stomed to offer even “ temporary accommoda-
” unless they see a chance of cent, per cent.
3me form or the other. A chance indeed is
luflioient—they require a certainty. As an in-
-36, in the present case— but there, I daren’t,
)ugh the temptation is terrible. Apart from
)r two journalists, the only man who has held
any sort of a hand to Taylor is Sir Saul
lel, who always does the proper thing judi-
dy.
* * *
plor is still hard-up, and still at Chobham
, but now that his big success has come I sup-
he won’t be so, for long. He is anxious to get
' from these parts, which he calls the “ Arctic
ans,” as soon as possible, and no doubt the
t ” will be forthcoming from some quarter or
• before this reaches you. The quixotism of
lan was well illustrated when he refused to
le his advantage and sue for damages before
F, beoause what damages he might gain would
out of the Public Treasury. When you get him
him, for you have not too many of that sort
ably, notwithstanding the hard lines he fell
, his visit to London will infinitely benefit
a many ways, and through him N.S W. For
art I am convinced of this-that A. G. Taylor,
lives and perseveres, will exercise no small
influence on the destiny of his country. If,
ing with a few men of a new school, he helps
eep abuse, corruption, effete humbug, and
incapacity from your governmental system,
11 have done more for the colony than any
>f his time.
* * *
ave told this tale at the risk of rullting
r’s sensibilities, because I think his oouutry-
hould hear it. Perhaps some day when he
ford to look back upon his troubles with
fulness, he will fill the blanks bimself. “ Th e
talk in London, an Autobiographical Sketch
, G. Taylor,” may be a cherished classic
r the New South Welsh youth of the next
ition.
• ■ •
u sure you will be very sony to hear of
fry painful accident which happened to Mr-
;one the other evening. The Right Honour-
rentleman unfortunately chanced to enter
the House at a moment when an hon. member was
givmg notice of a motion with reference to post-
caids for Australasia. The Premier stumbled
against an “ li ” that was lying upon the floor, and
fa i ;iD ?* WS rlght eyo reoolved a severe bruise from
a “ g” that was standing upon end. The subse-
quent motion by an indignant Radical, to the
effect that hon. members whose alphabet was in-
complete should bo provided with empty noso-
bags while in the chamber, was carried by a larg
majority.
♦ j|i
No doubt it was cabled to you that Con
servative members were complaining of a bitte
draught which nightly fanned the Oppositio
benches of the House of Commons. The cause has
since been discovered to have been the tlappin
of an hon. member’s ears. The member for a car
tam notoriously oorrupt and long-disfranchise
constituency is now accommodated with a seat
the Speaker’s gallery.
■ ■ ■
Mrs. Conover rageth at the desertion o
Mr. Philip Beck, who kept his departure for Aus
tralia as dark as his hat. It was not enough tha l
the poor lady should lose dollars in the Olympic
Taeatre, but—oh I Phillip, how could you ? If you
have an opportunity of seeing Mr. Beck in Pyg-
malion you will admire hia limbs-so will Larry
Foley. Like the elder Kean, Beck is a little man
who looks big in “ legitimate,” or in scanty attire
* * *
A - GL Taylor declined to be interviewed
by the Pall Mall Gazette. Ho tells me that h©
does not wish to offend English readers by airing
his thorough-paced Republicanism over here.
How Heaton, Wilson, Holt, or any of that creed
would have jumped at such a chance I
• • 0
A number of funny people have become
Interested in Taylor since he won his case. Among
others, “Handsome Charlie” (Lett) claimed him
as an old acquaintance. “ Why, Taylor, old man,”
he said, slapping the young ’un familiarly on the
left shoulder-blade, “you ought to remember
me. I bad the honour of filing a criminal infor-
mation against you when you were in the artil-
lery, for pledging your uniform, don’t you kno w ?
Old John Williams didn’t wish to prosecute, but
the Attorney-General insisted upon it. Ebl you
remember ? ” The cream of the joke, of course,
is that the yarn is as old as it is false. It was pro-
pagated by a certain local rival of Taylor’s, an
Charlie, I suppose, confidingly took it from
newspaper as gospel. Taylor said nothing, on!
grinned Inwardly, and Charlie went away unde
the impression that a lively llight of imaginatio
had paseed for an excellent effort of memory.
® ® to
We don’t go to music-halls or theatres
now, and Rcmano's, the Monico, and the Caff
Royal know us no more. Too slow for up, all o
’em. We’re on another lay now, and find 1;
cheaper and nicer. We go to revival meetings
Salvationist gatherings, and “sieh like,” and have
larks. We were grieved and alarmed the other
day to find that a paper called the Christian
Miliion is making an effort to deprive us of our
gentle pastime. Thus a correspondent to the
prudish rag:-
“ Side by side with the astonishing development
of prurient literature, there has grown uo in Sun-
day-schools and temperance societies with a close
membershiD an equally astonishing development
of kissing games. The old-fashioned outdoor kiss-
m-the-ring of school-treats, and the equally harm-
less forfeits played (and paid) beneath ttie mistletoe
P* ace to a set of kissing eames, in
which teachers and senior scholars indulge for
hours together, and which form the great attrac-
tion of many gatherings. . . It was our painful
duty to visit a London Sabbath-school entertain-
ment where these things were beiDg carried on
from six in the evening till midnight. We
protested verbally, and also by leaving an en-
tertainment where we felt the presence of Goi
was not being recognised. It began with a
cancan, in which, to an idiotic song and tune, first
the upper and then the lower members of the body
were raised and swung about. After this an hour
was spent in ‘kissing and hissing.” Then came
the great treat called ‘the Army.’ Marching
round in pairs these Sunday school teachers went
through a drill in which ‘ present arms ’ and ‘ lire
a volley meant embracing and kissing between
the sexes. When we state that the male ‘ teachers’
knelt down before their partners to embraca
them, and that six ‘ volleys ’ were ordered at onca
or that kissing in that posture was ordered to con-
tinue until the word ‘halt’ from the fugleman
the reason of our departure and strong indignant
protest wil ba evident.”
Yesterday’s Daily Telegraph contained a
leader on “ kissing-games” and no end of corres-
pondence.
* * *
Notwithstanding a lot of things, Salmon
Wilson has not yet acquired a titled son-
in-law. Our flighty young friend, Cairns, has,
as you are no doubt already aware, teon bagged
by the Grant family of New York.
Ever yours,
A. B. ORIGINAEE.
Peter Campbell, who states that he has
joined the Freethought people, got blind drunk in
Melbourne, the other day, to celebrate the event,
and was locked up. This is a email matter for
Peter, as, it being his “ first offence,” he was dls-
charged with a caution, ftod his property (amongst
which were three watches I) returned to him. But
wb&t must harrow up the delicate feelings of the
holy old boy is a statement by Jos. Symes that the
Freethinkers don’t want himl Says Jos-—“He
has, no doubt, the same right to call himself a
Freethinker as I have to call myself a Christian.
But the Freethinkers no more recognise Peter
Campbell as one of themselves than the Presby-
terians do me as one of their godly ministers.”
We thing of going in for some short bio-
graphies, or rather biographical notices if eminent
men. We started at Samson, some time ago, but
after this the writer gave us an article on Mrs.
Potiphar, which being decidedly libellous, we de-
clined to print. This broke him up. and he left us
to join the Protestant Standard, which we ex
pect to see very shortly give Mrs. P. the "doing”
we declined to fulminate. We are not quite
decided yet upon the style we shall adopt for our
sketohes, but we think that their colouring will be
something in this wise:—
SKETCHES OF CELEBRITIES
No 1.
MR. QUONG TART.
This gentleman—one of the mo3t eminent of our
citizens—was born at the picturesque town of
T , l i )00 m 0n i the banks of the River Oobung. The
elder Tart was named Djam Tart, and was by
trade a brass founder. He was likewise the founder
of (juong. At a comparatively early age Quong
looked about and beheld his countrymen emigrat-
inir to this country, where they became hewers of
h o,!? p9rB , of cabbages. Than he laughed
ba* bal (in Chinese) and resolved to improve upon
*5i a altotfctber. So he went to the Mandarin of
the district, where the Gobung rolls its turbid
flood, and got a letter to a notability here just
seven yards long. Then he girded up his gunny
bag, and “shoved.” On his arrival in Sydney, the
enterprising Mr. Q. T. immediately presented hid
letter to the magnate to whom it was addressed.
The magnate, much tiattered, then lncroduoed
tb, young Mongolian to the best people about the
I omt, and Moii3ieur Tart commenced sell-
in# tea at sixpence a cup, and personally en-
ter talcing the clergy. Mr. Tart is Government
L n e »*P r u ter ' and „r 9 la<J fopotod t) sing a capital
Scottish song. We have not heard him, and are
not likely to. Oa second thought? though wn
think this ii a tr'fio too ful omc. g * we
iThe Port Douglas (N.Q.) Times says it is
tired of the manner in which the
Imperial Government is managing our affairs in
the Pacific. We are very sorry for Gladstone.
The Jewish Messenger says“ The dis-
inclination of young- men to join the Jew-
ish ministry is due to the simple fact that
this is a commercial age, and that it does
not Pay, in the common meaning of the
word, to become a minister.” We can’t under-
stand this. We never saw a hard-up Rabbi, nor a
Christian minister who hadn’t a good skinful of
food, and a tolerable suit of clothes. What more
no the holy brethren want? Doesn’t pay—we
aon t care to pursue the subject. We only suggest
to the white-chokered gentlemen that Sheol, Para-
dise, and God have still some meaning to the un-
godly, and that whether the parroting of the old
seers pays ” or not, is a matter of no conse-
quence to the living men of to-day. It snot un-
behet in a God that keeps people away from
religious ceremonies now a days. That clear per-
ception which modern education has brought lets
people see that the so-called God-ordained teachers
want to make the thing •• pay ’’—and the natural
result follows. The cleric too often drifts away
down in popular estimation to tho grade of a
Chinese joss house man.
William Lloyd Garrison, the slavery-aboli-
tionist, remarks Goldwin Smith in Macmillan,
while he proclaimed the equality of black and
white, was careful, when about to be married, to
assure a tattling world that his affianced bride was
not a black woman. Why should he not have mar-
ried a black woman ? There can be no real
equality, social or political, without intermar-
riage; and without real equality there can be no
republic. But of intermarriage between the
white and black races in the South there is no
hope; it is barred, not < nly by social tradition,
which time would obliterate, but by physical an-
tipathy. The line has been drawn more sharply
and indelibly than ever, since the negro woman
has ceased to be at the command of white over-
seers and drivers. For the present the negro,
inured to subjection, and with the brand of
slavery fresh upon him, submits alike to social
pariahship and Political suppression. His fran-
chise remains almost a nullity. But this can hardly
last for ever. When it comes to an end, what will
follow ? The negroes multiply faster than the
whites ; their physical constitution is better
adapted to the climate; they seem to cling to their
homes. If they have faculties capable of being
developed they will, when educated, become im-
patient of subordination: but this will scarcely
secure peace and union between the races. The
situation is one without precedent in history, and
forms one of the darkest problems of the future.
Plea of a Poor zinger
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Harmony from the mellow throat doth wako
The nightingale
His brooding mate to oheer in leafy brake
At twilight pale.
Sweet pours tho linnet from “the trembling
spray ”
__ “ His wood-notes wild,”
With music hubbies o’er, this bard Of day,
Sweet conoord’s ohild.
I sing, not merely like the nightingale,
To please my mate,
Her loss ’tis as ’tis mine, when my notes fail
To All my plate.
Nor sing I as the tuneful linnet sings,
Because he must;
Tis simply mine to sing because it brings
The daily crust.
Thus singing, tho’ my voice may fail to rise
v *. v. JP 0 . lii B' hts upper,
Yet hath it power to earn the day’s supplies,
No song-no supper.
BRAIN WORRY.
After all, heroism is not the effete principle
which pessimists would have us believe. The
silent toilers of the world, exhibit, to the full, as
much courage, endurance, and heroic gratitude,
as any great conqueror by field or ilood. If the
conscientious strivings with a hard and unoom-
prom sing world seem uncommonplaee beside the
achievements of warrior or statesmen, they are
only lesser in degree. The motive force of the
heroic is duty, and it is questionable whether the
more dramatic action of this principle retiects
greater credit upon a man, than the silent, patient,
and enduring energy with which the more obscure
citizen does. Ob, how full of briars is this work-
ing day world,” says Shakespere, and surely he
who works under conditions perhaps, of dire
disease, encounters hardships as keen and terrible
as any of wreck or campaign. In these times all
men who have to work must do it with all their
might, If the hours of labour be shorter than in
pastimes, the stress is harder, and the competition
more severe. The easy steady work of old times is
succeeded by the rush and strain of modern ne-
cessities. And of all species of labor, none so
thoroughly “burns out” the candle of health as
brain work. Ordinarily it involves, too, a higher
and more conscientious sense of duty. Brain work-
ers don't strike-they work on until they fail, and
are pressed under foot by the ever-increasing army
of intellectual competition. In the bloom of
health, and the full force of nervous energy’ the
brain-worker laughs to scorn any limitation to his
capacity. The more work he does, the better he
lines it. Meanwhile, he is literally burning him-
self out. The phosphates and phosphoric acid
which are eliminated from the system of the in-
tellectual laborer are immensely in excess of the
waste suffered by the artisan or laborer. “A burn-
ing thought” is an expression of literal significance.
Every thought, emotion, or mental excitement
wastes so much brain matter; and if the phosphorus
loss is not returned by food, or food agents, ex-
haustion ensues, and disease sets in. We can
imagine no more significant evidence of this than
is given by Mr J. Clouting, head Master of Water-
loo /state School, near Sydney, He says that he
has suffered from kidney troubles for ten years.
During the early part of that time he tried several
medical men of the highest reputation in New
South Wales, but with no permanent benefit. lie
was told by one of the most eminent, whom ho
shall always remember for his unselfish advice,
that no medicine then known could cure him, and
that drugs would only increase the evil. Thus
advised, Mr. Clouting abstained from tha use of
medicines, and wore a hydropathic bandage, and
paid strict attention to diet, eating very little ani-
mal food, so as to lighten the labour of the kidneys
The disease, however, gradually increase!, as evi-
denced by the fixed dull pain intheloins, aburdea
almost unendurable, until his attention was direct-
ed to Warner's safe cure. He hazarded the trial of
a bottle, the etiects of which were so satisfactory
that he had taken nearly eight bottles. He now
lound himself free from tne old too fatnilier pain,
and every symtom indicating a spee 'y recovery.
This is the testimony of a gentlemen who suffered,
not merely from disease, but from the weariness
of mental labour and anxieties while in agony.
Unquestionably, the straiu and stress of teaching
contribute very largely to disorganisation of the
physical and msntal systems- The leading organs
of secret ion and excretion suffer under sympathetic
action with the excited and irritated nervous sys-
tem It is here that this grand remedy asserts it-
self as a recuperator of the disarranged machinery
and a gentle force under tho operation by which it
is set into harmonious movement.
A great revolution in the use of spirits has
taken placo-WoLvu s Schnapps has taken the
place ol the best brandies.
Notice!— Reliable Old Australian Wines
seleoted vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs’.
Only sold by Hookings, I*3 Pitt-street. 9 *
“Honesty is tho best policy.” If every
tt&Fu. 80 WOLP ”' S f OB,,ip ™ "'onla nott.


csofsas^tto
ma hk,^
MAR
of sL??Ap STOUT.—This favourite bran*
Wof «??4® selected -with great care from tat
jjthui n,® brewings of the celebrated firm of
BJ*n<l 8 J * n<1 Co., Dublin, and therefore
C4 ?Ttlr e i ( riM ed * To procured •verywhoi*.
*on sole Agents.
& SHAW
are now opening (almost daily)
Novelties
for the
la AUI tUO
COACHING AUTUMN SEASON.
jfjjpUAT ATTENTION has been given by our
s ®ntative in London to the growing require-
®entB of
our trade, and we shall have
o|l *H for INSPECTION
the following New Goods THIS DAY
cl* B L C ?EVER E TTE GLOVES, four and six
OUft qL.’ m all newest winter shades
(*pffii* LOv ®» the “FLORA” KID GLOVE
°krahii*Nmanufactured for us, aad not pro-
buttong eiBewliere )i in all colours, four and six
SWEDE GLOVES, in all
|w ?and co l°urs
P UIN Qd BHAW ’B PLUSHES and VELVETS,
krrS. RDd STTA W*a XTIETir MWPTn?TTT 'n'TTT
„ fcll|« a Q n d SHAW’S NEW MERVEILLEUX
and satins
' BHAW’S LATEST FASHION
materials
„ B .?A W ’ s SERGES, STRIPE CAN-
PE Ws d CASHMERES
!HjM. s an ,d SHAW’S BLACK CASHMERES,
. Natertli.*lLlNGS, and other new black
ormoUrnlnfir
. QHif SILK CRAPES, VERY BEST
np IJSB
„ TtMRa NED > BEAU TIFUL AUTUMN COS-
n** 3 ’ rangiDK in Prices from 255. to 8 guineas
Qoob| NBD * NEW FRILLING 8 and LACE
COLLIER HOSIERY, NEW CUFFS and
New ays ’ ladies’ and Children’s Underolothing
Elowers and Feathers, Millinery
RAPES'* SHAW,
George -street.
RAW VASELINE.
■J? *
Masw***w ! -
'*7M
a and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
Ntn rathß^ r ?? iteß ’ and prevents their growth.
NJv! it Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
s«t&i its arit? alriK ’ and renders it waterproof.
h f,^Ero tGc.f^ CorroBive qualities, uneqalied as a
vj® 0 *", ami f or keeping in perfect order
the, nK° nes > Ac. It is the sole material
armiP° ve Purposes in the Austrian and
les - Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
. teg *, SOLE AGENTS :
VS*CKBURN & GO.,
\ jj EE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
* Sydney.
hatters
GEORGE street
iJvdney
-'RrCKSO>AXLiT!E
,E WESTSHAPES.
\ u
. ,**• WALLACE,
of every description of
W IL 6, Law, Mercantile and
\S ** b H nc y Stationery .
H **** »B« Mnssiinu rwnlTMl »y
484 BTDNBT
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
i
is
5F
£5
ttAtiS JPAIIS jlui.
Th« BIST ALB and STOUT Id the Market
•OLD BT ALL STO tvttK BEPEKB AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Amenta :
Balchftn, Jahnston & Co.,
roMMitkciAL Chambers,
BUM) bTREKT, SYDNEY.
■c
IHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
« ONVaNiENCIf, economy.
PtT THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
abour, stationery, and time, writing much
.< ter than export penmen, and condensing matter
o le»s than one-half the space occupied by pen
rting. Beautiful copies may be taken In the
•Rial manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
< • kers, solicitors. clergymen, editors and authors,
e orters. and all men or business should use the
v pe-wrder, and save much valuable time.
9 old wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
86 Ciarenoe-street.
r he Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BT ACT Of PARLIAMENT,IB73
Paid-up Capital. ..£300,000
Reserve Fund £155,000
Chairman.
Auditors;
J*s. Seroggle, Esq. i u. E. Cohen, Esq.
General, Manaobr; I Bbo retart:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen*
tIRANOHBB IN NBW SOUTH WALBB
Hav market, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngsn,
Bourke, Manly, J *rramatt>. st. Leonards, and
Newcastle,
Branch in Qubbnmcanu :
Brisbane.
London Branch ; 168 l*r« tennan-street.
Directors .
Edward Chapman. Esq. j Geo. 1 ntade, Esq.
Mr Saul Bam ael. O.M.G I'■ reo H Alexander, Baq.
Manaoir ; Geo. F. Alexander. Esq.
'■'tools I.ankjprs;
The Nations , > -jv metal Bank of England
This bank tr;Uu‘ eus ail utm.A Hanging and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable term!
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiate t and ad vaimee made against Woo.
md other produce shipped to England for sale.
To Weak, Nervaus lit. valid* amt others
seeking Health, Btrcngth, md .. ergy.
Dirbotors:
Sir John Hay, K.0.M.G1
ry Mort, M.L.G.
The Hon.
Hon. Her
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gioley King, M.L.G,
C. Rolleeton, Esq., cTm.G.
Dr. BloHABDB,{{{■.s*£**.
DESIRES to inform suff »r«.s of both sexes
that he has perms. vnUy established himself
ia Sydney, and may In f num> be consulted at his
rooms. No. 7 Spring-s.r a. . fr»e of charge, by
sufferers of both sexes from Nervous and Phy-
sical Debility, Exhausted Vitality, Premature
if Decay, Pains in the Back, Head, or Chest, &c., &c
I CURE EVERY CASE UNDEKTAKEN.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop
them for a time and then have the m return again;
I mean a radical cure. I have made nervous and
private diseases a life-long study, and can safely
warrant a cure in every case undertaken after a
personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful
imprudence, have brought about a state of weak-
ness that has reduced the general system so much
as to induce almost every other disease, and the
real cause of this disease scarcely over being
suspected, they have been doctored for every-
thing but the right one. Notwithstanding trie
many valuable remedies that medical rcienoe has
produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a
cure. During my extensive hospital and private
practice in England, I have discovered new and
concentrated remedies, and with the use of my
extensive Galvanic Appliances, I am in a position
to guarantee a cure in every case undertaken.
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whdther your case Is curable or not.
Dr. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
No. 7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-street North),
Sydney.
DK. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBKKB, 39 CASTLEREAGH-3T
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICIo B AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Offloe Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
Barry’s Tricoplierous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the soalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’B
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
meat. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
UBTRALIAN MUTUAL FIKE SOCIETY,
Established 1878. _
Capital—lloo,ooo with power to increase to 11,000,000
BONUSES—2O per C6nt. paid annually since 1873.
*«® Head Office*. «*»
First Fire Society established in me colony en
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’ders are perfectly free by law from
an liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rales
Head Offices —.
OfIURCH, Manager,
and KING STREETS.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS 2nd DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
'h
IADIfS
oil
biy?
SONS
BOSTOJJ
BOSTON', 1809.
VIENNA, 1873.
PHIL.A., 1870.
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family, it blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to be
“THE STANDARD.”
L. HAUTHAWAY&SONS,
, i & 233 Congress Street, Boston.
MiS?., U.6.A.
MUBIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
HE ONLY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
v. that makes a Speciality of
musical Instruments.
iolins, Guitars, Bapjos, Futes, Accordions, Con-
certinas, and Strirgs for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FOGONOWSKI'g
OSi CAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
105 Keorffe-street, Sydney*
HHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVBBTOCK
_L INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital *lOO,OOO.
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Esq-
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South WaFs Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. 8. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
&
4
&
t*
&w
*
V'
y^
y//
_w ♦
v>y* yv
<&/& y *
}F <9'. «** V^*
Messrs. S. HOFFNIJNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT'S FKQSPHODYNE
The only Keliable Be-uedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Load of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous uedicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down Constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the r rooess. It moves the lungs,
liver, hea t,kidney, stomach, and Intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and! i; i» most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
Agents— EnuoTT Boot.
C. B. HODINI,
DURING his recent visit to LondoE, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIRBABMS,
manufactured by the most oelebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
ointed AGENT for
LANG & SON, London ; ckAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent flm
BUSST & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 Georgo.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
T H
B FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
a*
Mo. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream. Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c M with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
"KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stablos
Factory
SI Harbour-street
Liverpool-street.
Mlttagong.
MET ICINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOB NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified aasist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
NEVER MIND
the temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and ur qualified bands. By skill*
science, and
THE CASH
system, we are able to command an extensive
patronage aDd supply everything of the best
quality at the lowest prices,
T. JONES fit CO., Dispensing Chemists,
63 Market st., between Pitt and George streets,
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hille; and Suva, Fiji.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
mm
LIMITED,
263 to 2G>9 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Here always In STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
4Jn>
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, Am SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVINand SONS*
Edlnbuvga Pale Ale.
TT\ R. THOM A!
JLW may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affeotjoi
Meslical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-strbpt,
near Bathurst-street. ?■''*
Hours : 9 till 10 daily. K
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man adv
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Em
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passe.
-Licentiate of the Royal College of Physician*.
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College or
Surgeons, London, 1859.
> ttsTZKZZSXJrZSZE:?.
G> The
I ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AMi 1 PRE PAREID ONLY BY f2K*
Thomas Ingham /• f
OCKHAM PTON.-w
‘“'^^ZESSSS


THOS. GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIC/AH,
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. I
1 A B3URKE STREET, l
MELBOURNE. )
neai posto®S
Manufacturer of Turret Gtocks, Prize Cups, Optical ansi Surveying Instruments, ®c.
lunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Levar Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a, most correct ; *nl
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellc y. .
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
QUINA LAROCHE.!
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS.
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
AT.T. CONVALESCENTS, . _ , ,
At all Druggists and Cbemista<>
DRINK I* l
f}sT-
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FEY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An.ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the heat ale or porter.— Lancet.
I
W'iVV-
Ipfl
iw
YjJJJA
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
s'srnDns'E'sr, isT-S-W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
'the Medical Boards of Victoria and N. S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation »fc
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility, v "
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness,. Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Dimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
■of Eemales, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &e., are
——.l treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cau.§<? t promptly cured.
It is self-evident,that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians ir. regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of ,al! ages and countries are used. Omaccount of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy ana perfect life cure, that ir the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
Rdd^B DOCTOR JT. Q CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh., Street (ground floor) , Sydney.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEBEE * 1
Trade
/
Mark-
NO MORE FEVER. ,
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-km .^
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly .
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all chem
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower
TT> OBE K T BUTOKIB * 0,0.
(Late William Lon*?),
mr WINB AND BPIBIT MERCHANT,
584 GEO RGB RT'RBET,
OPPOSITE THB TOWN I ALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoelre "prompt attention.
lANHOODi
restoP!
TION,* FRENI ATUREDEC^
tart dj»ooT«r*d a simple
■m mOm of itilfftriag kumMity, £•.*** I
Bm Freftcriptiom wkloh CUWFP j
Hr. B. A. CL.AK.itE* EO. "
4
o
c.
Or
o
m
MARK
TRAOt
to
<2
S>
i, g*c f CROSS
D O
N
BULL DOG ALB.
WEST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
nnHB sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst*
B quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Bole Agents
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYiYARD SQUARE,
AST©
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and Xiondon.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFT£B 6IFORB
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE aai WHI3EEES.
Boyd’a Beard Elixir did thin, and
r toiU do either bald fiend or
bare face. forces heavy Mont -
tacnein fromZ to A weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
- - - - wear full beards, having used Ito
3 pkts. Bo injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3s. 6 d. % poat paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
fAddnu, Frank P»uglM, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,lf.S. W-
BEFOBS wren
Copyrighted,
rockets 1«. 6 d.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELL ARS and BODEGA.
354 Gfreorge-stre&t
(Beneath pßlingr’a.)
THE highest point of perfection 1°
facture of a j
Gentlemen’s Sh
having been reached by ourselveSi
prepared to supply our Custom S e
made of any material, cut on the j,
Ptl mTARANTEEING PERFECT /'
COMFORT, te gt <J U
and as we use materials of the ver eo ur e^‘
durability and good value are also
A. A. DEBNE* *,
13 HUNTER
fit
SYDNEY.
Ufa ..ufactovy
W»
P. C. MESSITEB’ .(fit
FASHIONABLE f*' ,
and MEN’*
Supplies Clothing which, for q “f 0
price, cannot be surpassed v* pgjrtP
Quality of Goods in Merf® jjgd
wiijiiity ui vjutiuo lu
without equab g o uc
Ycur patronase repeoiiun* f
SIS PITT STR&
LATH ROWL ANDS & LF.WJfi, _
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Era fed Waters, CoriilEafls, and ilttsrs, and Proprietor of Vigos’^®'
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. „
Calcutta Exhibition awaroed the Only Golo Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also„ another Gilt/ i 'ledal for Liqueurs. BiiW B '/,
