

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
m
will bo fitly represented and celebrated at
THE PALACE EMPORIUM. HAYMARKET.
Novelt
les °f every description are in magnificent abundance, and no stone has been left unturned to make an altogether
unprecedented show of
r efill a
If
OUr goods are CHOICE, our prices are likewise LOW, and the seeker after EABHION combined with ECONOMY will find
his or her end attained by patronising
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
fl f #
m as
as
<> ,
HATMAEKEl 1 ONLY.
1
Yes, and the only ones nearer than tlio great cities of the OLD WORLD. Such arc
ANTHONY. HORDERN AND SONS,
and for the purpose of making UNIVERSAL PROVISION for the good folks of Australia was
_ palace
Nit; ' Wo> that ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS, CLOTHE the people, SHOE the people, and EURNIHI fi e
• 6 People. We likewise provide the people with everything that can possibly help to make HOM v attractive and *ju
’ 111 f act, the PALACE EMPORIUM is nothmg if not
The Palace of flic People.
Us
Palace Emporium, Hay market oniy,
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nlckal-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
By Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing.
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-flitting
©f every description.
DOULTON‘B “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON AGGORQ DORICS, 8 & S Hacquarle Place,
Full particulars and price on application.
m
<*&
&
& Deraogssnent off ftie Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THU
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
i&TEDKTro-crs
STSTEI£.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR. J. EIiLITBOCH,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Hero, by
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
by a large vein, called the Hepstie vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of :
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.^
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
ft. Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
Allot the above symptoms go to ehow functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
great importance of any error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have.made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Dr. Haddock’s Daw Liver Pill (Sugar Oaatad.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For P'emale Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in thoir effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BT ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every rill is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad-
dress oh receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for 81.00. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY,
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J. H. Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market, any seep-
tio can have a sample bottle scat him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
G Mk L L A G H A. N§
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
Bar WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCHOTT <S& 00.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, STOREY, KS.W.;
Albo, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
83T LARGEST STOCK Tk THE COLONIES.
KEESHANB
STAR & GARTER EAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ba'iALOci.cfcxi.xi.,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
0T LUNCH lON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GSNTLIMIN.
ROMS, MIM, and 01
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
lEOH, mm, sol ICBMTHOI®
Importers of
BTEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and RHQUIBITEB, WOOD-WORKING
UAIL «A?V AN £ OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLBMW'
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT. PUMPS, COACHBUILDBRo
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
find HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTB. and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BflftGßl
AIM
I)
p 2s?#ißSfcfl
Gli4W . A
vertical
. ZONTAL B ultJ
? team * nd
PUMPS
pL scfi
? ING, anJLj
; machinb*
(TEAM H
, JSfflSS‘ r \
> s A H T / l ?S« 8 °“
**
Fries Lists and Catalogues furnished on application*
[ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO-i
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
54 YORK STREET,-
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
HASS 08 '
London O4fto«
- SS GRACJROHURCH BTHU*)
Alex. Borthwick. qm b s§
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. Ul
2SI O-eorgre-sst., 537-<a~n^,
OFFORD & CO.’S HA) *
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Koyal Hotel, and at 652 George Str j
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), Cd.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fin© custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. Oil.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. BGUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 20S PUT STREET.
wmm*M
MARSHALL BRO'.
DENTISTS
US
ZABETH ST
%sUecfMe Qfa*.
m
MACHINERY-
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALI
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST: COST!
y
u
•>
A
o*‘/
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED FOR
■
ROBERT COOPER VVE^
SOLE AGENj^I
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22, KIND S T " 1
prescription^
a Hfcfc be found in the "
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Ne rr A V
Lost Manhood, Despondency,
this book will be sent post free, 8
pinny stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO
ress—
PARD & CO., /
Sydney Pharm^t,
76 Hunter-sW 6


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 149 -New Serlee.
SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1886.
Fric*—S
Imperial Federation or Colonial
Federation.
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, MARCH 20,1886.
In a passing reference to the sittings of the
Australian Federal Council—so called—the
Pall Mall Gazette remarks—“ If the
future does not rest with Mr. Service
and Colonial Federation, it will, we hope
and believe, be with Mr. Dalley and Im-
perial Federation.” There is a concreteness
of definition in this sentence which stimu-
lates thought. The English writer, observ-
ing from a distance, has not had his
observation distracted by details. To him
all that has been distinguishable above the
horizon have been the actual mountain
peaks. This then, is what it all amounts to.
Colonial Federation or Imperial Federation.
We are not clear that the association of
names with principles is correct, however.
Mr. Service is not, so far as we are aware,
an advocate of Colonial Federation as op-
posed to Imperial Federation; and, if Mr.
Dalley be accepted as a representative of
Imperial Federation, as opposed to Colonial
Federation, so much the worse for the pros-
pects of the former project. There is, of
course, a third possibility. That is, no
Federation at all, but a simple perpetuation
of existing conditions. We do not think
thaFany reflecting person will be found to
advocate this, or to regard it as a permanent
possibility. The prospect of the British
colonies in Australia repeating the uxperi.
enoes of the Spanish colonies in South
America is not an agreeable one. Still, it
may come to pass, as a result of
various cognate influences. Indifference on
the part of the several peoples, coupled
with the trumpery ambitions of the smaller-
souled amoßg local political “leaders,”
might operate as an effective Conservatism.
But one of these causes is clearly remov-
able The trumpery ambitions of small
men, only great in petty communities, indi-
cate just the sort ot dispositions which could
be play id upon by the plotters for Imperial
Federation. The paltry creatures who would
resist any plan of Colonial Federation which
would tend to eliminate them from the
front rank of public men and reduce them
to their true level of merely parochial im-
portance, are just of the exact kidney to be
educed by the bribe of some titular distinc-
tion. And one of the most obvious accom-
paniments and consequences of Imperial
Federation would be a broadcast diffusion
of ribbons and stars, and similar baubles.
For Imperial Federation must involve the
assimilation of the lesser to the greater—
the re-modelling of the Democratic struc-
ture of Australian society and institutions
to bring these into harmony with the aristo-
cratic form of the British Constitution.
* * ♦
The object of Imperial Federation oeing
to secure intimate union by the medium of
uniformity, the colonies would naturally,
if they consented to surrender the simple
structure of their present Constitutions,
expect all the advantages, real or supposi-
titious, of the aristocratic form. It is quite
conceivable that undir adroit manage-
ment the colonial populations might be
even -cajoled and tricked into demanding
e alltjr with the rest of the Empire in this
Vt t : t, aud the ludicrous speotacle might
*'* rented of a mob clamouriDg to have
* ges bestowed in place of C M.G.-ships,
1,1 • the most prominent humbugs and
11- :11 t-tlea of the community. It would
>'o difficult, if there were any adroit-
fifes in management, for astute political
leaders to persuade a sweeping majority of
oolonials than anything less than that
in the way of distinctions for pro-
minent Australians—making themselves the
political leaders aforesaid—would be a
slight and an insult to the community at
large. And, indeed, it is not at all clear
that any adequate denial could be opposed
to such arguments. If these colonies are to
be comprised in a Federal Union with the
mother country, there really is no reason
why their populations should be under dis-
advantages or disqualifications which would
THE EMPEROR OF AUSTRIA.
stamp them as inferior to their brethren in
Great Britain.
* * *
Hence, in considering the probabilities of
the future, it must be allowed that the plan
of Imperial Federation has from the start
an advantage over that of Colonial Federa-
tion, inasmuch as the vanity and petty am-
bitions —none the less active because petty—
of influential and wealthy colonists would
be enlisted in favour of the method
which promised the maximum of gra-
tification to their pretensions. And the
Imperial scheme would possess other
advantages. So large an infusion of
immigrants from Great Britain is still
annually distilled inj;o the population, and
so considerable a proportion of that popu-
lation looks back to the old country as its
native land, that an appreciable amount of
sentimental affection has to he reckoned
upon. The native-born Australian and the
colonists of long standing who have come
to recognise that they are Australians in all
respects when the interests of the mother
country and of the colonies may conflict,
furnish the main equipoise for this senti-
mental and quite irrational predilection.
Then, again, the direct social influence of
the British viceroys and their little Oourts
is a most important factor. The Governors
appointed by the British-Colonial office are
practically influential foreigners among us;
envoys charged with the duty of throwing
their influence into the sca'e opposed to the
interests of the populations of these oolonies
on all subjects and on all occasions involv.
ing a decision as to whether Imperial or
Colonial exigencies or advantage are to pre-
vail.
* * *
There are abundant indications, even now,
that these envoys have their instructions
with express reference to thisvery question.
Toey have been, ia two recent instances,
selected with a degree of care and fore-
thought which was at no previous period
exercised. The good-for-nothing scamps,
brokm-down diplomatists, and impecuni-
ous aristocrat, who used to be sent out,
very much as families shoot out here their
rubbish of youDger sons with whom they
can do nothing at home, have been replaced
by men of a very different mould. It is
clearly no longer considered immaterial
who is sent to occupy the Vice-regal
residences in the principal Australian colo-
nies. In lieu of regarding these posts as
comfortable exile for a ne’er-do-well with
influential friends, or as an opportunity
for this or that friend, relative, or de_
pendent of some noble lord in power to
elude their creditors, leave their estates at
nurse, or simply make a provision for them-
selves by economy, we have picked men,
evidently chosen in view of their aptitude
to execute a particular and definite object.
In Lord Cabington and Sir Henry Loch,
for example, we have the very opposite of
the Marquis of Nobmanby and Lord Augus-
tus LOFTU3. It is diflicult to escape a con-
viction that the mission of these gracious,
intelligent, aud adroit viceroys is to; cajole
the populations, and to interest their public
men into subordination of local considera-
tions to those which are essentially British.
m • •
On the other hand, Colonial Federation
can look for support from no extraneous
or adventitious influences. Its advocates
have mainly to rely upon the most
difficult to secure of all buttresses—
abstract reasoning. Their very patriotism
is liable to be stigmatised as treason. And
really they could offer no short rebuttal
to such a charge. Theoretically there is no
denying that to advocate anything resem-
bling the dismemberment of the Empire is
treasonable. And a rejoinder—no matter
how cogent—that the apparent evil is a real
and solid good, has ever failed to silence the
voice of authoritative calumny. It was
treason but a few years ago to advocate in
England parliamentary reform, and among
the population of Australia are yet to be
found descendants of martyrs who were
sent hithtr, cooped up—herded with thieves
and murderers, for the felony of loving
their count) y in a fashion which the domi-
nant class felt to be dangerous to the con-
tinuance of the supremacy which they so
grossly abused. The advocates of Colonial
as opposed to Imperial Federation must
be confined to that limited class—men
at once intelligent and disinterested. Dull
men are easily carried away by senti-
ments which carry the prestige of antiquity
and are stamped with the intelligent appro-
bation of authority. Men accessible to the
promptings of self-interest as distinguished
from the interest of the community arc
always open to the arts of corruption; and
that political leaders will sell a country for
empty titles and even for hard cash has been
but too mournfully exemplified by the his-
tory of the intrigues which destroyed the
autonomy of Ireland, and delivered that
unhappy country to be despoiled under the
pretence of union—which is simply another
term for Imperial Federation.
* « *
Nevertheless, the superior advantages
presented by Colonial, as contrasted with
Imperial Federation, appear to us too
obvious and too striking, to fail ia securing
a considerable and very eirnest body of
adherents aming the Australian colonists.
For our own part, we believe that nothing
is calculated to hasten the rupture of
affectionate relations between these colo-
nies and the mother country more certainly
than any scheme of Imperial Federation yet
foreshadowed. And in like manner it seems


to us that nothing would operate more
favourably to the perpetuation of existing
good feelings than a relaxation of political
relations which cannot long continue on
their present footing. So long as these
colonies remain integral portions of the
British Empire they are liable to disturb-
ance by every convulsion whioh agitates
the political surface of Europe—troubles
with which, in reality, they have no more
concern than have the people of the United
States. It is not reasonable that on each
occasion that Russia threatens to march on
Constantinople, or moves a brigade in Merv,
Australians should be harassed by anxiety
for the safety of their homesteads and
placed under the necessity of expending
money in preparations to defend their
ports. It is ridiculous that on any oooa-
sion when a Parliament’ differing in
its Constitution entirely from our own
representative Chambers plunges, under the
influence|of stock-jobbers, into expeditions
to repress the aspirations of national free-
dom in Egypt, the Soudan, or the Transvaal)
Australians should be dragged into the
trouble without having had the slightest op-
portunity of it. And no soheme
of Imperial Federation whioh has been fore-
shadowed, or is conceivable, would remove
that objection. The British Government
neither would nor could submit to have its
foreign policy controlled by a few colonial
representatives. Imperial Federation would,
in this respect, merely increase the formal
responsibility of the colonists by securing a
sort of participation in the preliminaries of
a squabble. But Colonial Federation, while
cementing tnese communities into a nation
sufficiently powerful for self-defence—that
is to say, as powerful in regard to
numbers as were the North Ameri-
can colonies when they resisted and ex-
pelled the armies of Great Britain—would
relieve them from participation in the wars
of the old world. It is surely very evident
that a friendship whioh was all advantage,
as a close relation between mother country
and young offshoot communities would
naturally be, could be better preserved than
a condition of supremacy on the one pa»t
and dependence on the other, which, while
offering no.additional advantages, would be
burdened, as now, with grievous risks.
* * *
Australians are practical people. The
very essence of their careers is the spirit of
material development and progress. They
are bent, almost without exception, on in-
dustrial progress. Every individual is de-
voted to money-making. What they ap-
preciate most acutely is a constancy of ris-
ing values, expanding industries, and of
territorial reclamations from the wilderness.
Let these be restricted, interrupted, or
arrested : let universal stagnation be
aggravated by interrupted commerce,
general insecurity, and augmented taxation
for defensive purposes; and let these evils
be seen to be due to a connection which
could be done without, and a general im-
patienoe and inclination to snap bonds so
onerous would supervene. We know of no
Australian loyalty which would be proof
against a universal, commercial, and indus-
trial ruin, clearly attributable to the Im-
perial connection. It would be better to an-
ticipate the event than to await it; and an
Australian Federation eD joying an indepen-
dence which had been the free and generous
gift of a mother country—relieved from
participation iu quarrels not its own,
strong enough to defend its own shores,
linked in close alliance, offensive and
defensive, with its great parent with re-
spect to all matters whioh are of common
interest —would be not only England’s best
customer, but her dearest friend. Then, in-
deed, might be witnessed the spectacle at
some future day of Australia, voluntarily,
deliberately, and from sheer affection, send-
ing her contingents to assist the dear old
land in her hour of need, as a son would
rush to the help of a parent in a good cause.
Far different this from being betrayed into
a detestable contest by the interested
treaohery of some irresponsible Minister,
who, secure of countenance and support
from the predominant Imperial authority,
risked nothing, although his invasion of the
Constitution of the colony in which he lived,
and the consequenoes of his interested en-
thusiasm, plunged his Australian com-
patriots into immeasurable calamities.
Favoured and applauded by the Court and
Government of Great Britain, deoorated
with a title, and distinguished by the appro-
bation of great statesmen and a powerful
press, representing interests essentially
foreign, he could smile at the complaints of
his fellow-colonists, and sneer at the Aus-
tralian patriot as a rebel to the Crown and
Government—of Great Britain.
Converts to Socialistic Ideas.
Mb. Puff, in •* The Critic,” remarks of characters
upon the stage that “ when they do agree, their
unanimity is wonderful.” The same remarkable
agreement is observable at present among the
aotors upon the political stage of New South
Wales. The blast of laughter—expressive about
equally of derision and indignation—which
puffed out poor Sir John Robertson s proposal
to coax pastoral lessees to submit to an augmen-
tation of rentals on condition of a deferred re-
coupment of an hundredfold by receiving the
value of improvements at the termination of
their leases, seems to have extinguished the
whole policy of exempting land from taxation.
Sir John’s own Treasurer (Mr. Burns included a
land tax among his heterogeneous jumble of
half-measures for raising revenues. It was quite
understood that a land tax was among the
bases of agreement arranged for the Jen*
nings-Hobertson Coalition, and although the
members of the present Jennings Cabinet
did not appear when addressing their con-
stituents on seeking re-election, to know
what policy had brought them into association,
not one of them but gave some intimation of his
readiness to concur in taxing land values. Again
it is quite an open secret that in Sir Henry
PArkes’ policy, a land.tax has a foremost place.
■• . •
This unanimity is indeed wonderful, when one
looks back. It is the very first occasioa that in a
modern community propositions to place burdens
upon real estate have not been denounced in
every “respectable)” quarter as spoliation, confis-
cation, and rascality—as anarchical, socialistic,
communistic, revolutionary, and even as an irre-
ligious flying in the face of Providence. Colonists
who can remember the intensity of the struggle
and the bitter violence of Conservative sourrillity
flung upon the advocates of the measure, when
the progressive land-tax was introduced and
carried in Victoria, will be able to appreciate the
contrast. There is no gainsaying the old conten-
tion that measures of this nature are essentially
socialistic and communistic, and that they are
comprised among the conceptions which have
been denounced as anarchical. But yesterday, as
it were, any such proposition was met almost de-
risively. The opponents of the system of political
economy to which land and property taxation
pertain were confident and overbearing. They
laughed at the advocates of such projects as
visionaries, scouted them as demagogues and
impostors, and insulted them as impotent. They
relied upon “the moral sense of the community ”
to detach them from such notions and to flood
their consciences with shame, the moment they
heard the magic formula, “ The Rights of Pro-
perty.” But to-day that jargon is no longer a
phrase to conjure by. To the diffusion during the
last few years of the lucid teachings of Henry
George and other apostles of the revived prin-
ciples of equal justice, this astounding revolution
in the prevailing modes of thought may be mainly
attributed. It is half a revolution. Andtheothe r
half will inevitably follow. Now a revolution
which progresses and is accomplished piecemeal is
precisely what is meant by constitutional progress.
* * *
By conversions, such as the present attitude of
the public, and of public men in'New South Wales
indicates, all that is good in the Socialist and Com-
munist theories could be adopted without a single
spasm of convulsion. We have long perceived
and taught that in these systems there is much
that is good—aye, not only good but necessary and
inevitable. It is encouraging, therefore, to be
able to record so large a progress as is marked by
universal consent to land taxation in New South
Wales, and equally encouraging and surprising to
observe the S.M. Herald giving its imprimatur to
such a sentence as the following which appears in
its review of the February magazines on the 10th
inst.
“ Mr. Walter Besint, like all thoughtful men
of this generation, ha 3 evidently felt to the very
core of his conscience the data of the Socialists.”
True, the S.M. Herald hastens to qualify its
pregnant admission by appending the remark
“ which of course is a very different thing from
believing in their proposed remedies.” The ad-
mission is, however, a sensational one, proceeding
from such a quarter. When it is considered that
the S.M Hebalu has scarcely ceased to denounce
and abuse “ the diti of the Socialists,” its reluc-
tance to admit that the physician who diagnozed
the disease of society is better qualified to pre-
scribe remedlos for that disease than practitioners
who had obstirttely and arrogantly, refused to
believe iu its existence, and had rudely insulted
the demonstrators as quacks and vagabonds, is
merely an exemplification of the ordinary weak-
ness of inferior natures.
PLALN ENGLISH.
A Vicious System.
In the course of the paper on “ Benefit Building
Societies,” read by Mr. B. Teece, president of the
Insurance Institute of N.S.W., to the members of
that body, Mr. Teece referred to “the colossal
land companies and syndicates which, like a huge
devil-fish, are spreading their feelers over the
colony, inflating the value of land, and gulling the
unreflecting citizen.” We consider that if Mr
Teece’s deliverance had begun and ended with
that sentence it would still have been a valuable
utterance. Such land companies and syndicates
are a curse to the country. Not only do they
tempt the working classes, by the pretenea of
“easy” terms, to give for slices of land
prices (ea-fold what can be obtained for the
same in larger areas, which is a swindle, tut
they are responsible for the creation of insanitary
conditions which the subsequent expenditure of
millions will be required to remove. They are
like all corporations, without conscience. They
cut up lands into slices so minute that each dwell-
ing has a cesspit within a few yards of its back
windows, and whole tracts are under their
auspices packed with buildings so closely that
healthy conditions of existence are out of the
question. The Legislature is grossly to blame for
permitting such minuteness of subdivision, and
its i emissness is only accounted for by the circum
stance that a large proportion of its members are
also interested in these companies and syndicates.
How the new suburbs which daily are forced into
existence are ultimately to be drained and
rendered habitable, is a point never con-
sidered. They sell their land, induce work-
ing men to hypothecate their earnings for
a series of years to provide them with their
profits, and they wash their hands of consequences.
One of these consequences is that just at the time
when, in England, the State has found itself com-
pelled to undertake the demolition of slums in the
metropolis, here our leadiag citizens are busily
engaged in creating the slum j of the lutuie. Mr.
G.H. Keid has alone among our legislators done
anything' to mitigate the evil. What is required
is a Bill on the line of the one which he managed
to get passed fixing a minimum width for streets
and lanes, to similarly fix a minimum area for sub-
divisions in the vicinity of towns and cities.
4
The Martyr Moor house.
Bishop Moorhouse, vyho has just left Mel-
bourne for Manchester, is probably, for a parson,
about as good as they make ’em. He is a clever
man, and liberal—for a priest—which is an im-
portant qualification. And there are tokens that
when duly inducted to the House of Lords, his
always prudent and guarded coquetting with
heterodoxy will cease altogether. The Bishop
Moorhouse, of the Irrigation versus Prayer-for-
Rain episode, will merge in the Lord Bishop of
Manchester, just as the Dr. Temple, who wrote.
“ The Childhood of the World,” in the essays and
reviews which scandalised the orthodox a
score of years ago, is quite unrecognisable
in h!s Lordship the Bishop of London. Of
course, when one says that a man is liberal
—for a priest, or heterodox—for a bishop, one
doesn’t mean anything particularly striking in the
way of liberalism or heterodoxy. Colenso was
the only downright heterodox bishop on record,
and if, in lieu of persecuting him, the orthodox
had intrigued to get him a good, fat prelacy, with
a seat in the Lords, it is likely enough that he
might have repented, and talked of his essays on
the Pentateuch as a youthful folly. But, to return
to Dr. Moorhouse; he offered a charming
apologia pro Vila sud, in his farewell address. He
quitted Victoria, not because the mental strain of
colonial work was too much for him~heaven
forbid! that would cut two ways. No, it was the
physical exposure. Our readers would, perhaps,
fancy that we were poking fun at them and calum-
niating the Bishop were we merely to summar-
ies the physical strain which dismayed Dr. Moor-
house by jotting it down as three wettings in
thunder-plumps, one windstorm flinging boughs
of trees about his buggy, a lot of jolting, and
finally having to eat selectors’ fare. We will,
therefore, quote Dr. Moorhouse’s own words:—
“‘ Physical strain?’ you may ask; ‘what are you
talking about?’ Well, ladies and gentlemen, you
are not likely to understand it, because you have
not experienced it; but I may tell you that in the
short tour I have just completed I began with
three tremendous storms, that being in an open
buggy I got wet to the skin, and then I had to
encounter a hurricane among the lofty forest
trees, with the boughs crashing down around me,
any one of which, if it struck me, would have
killed me on the spot. The latter was peril, not
hardship, and I do not think I ever cared for peril.
But there was this hardship aggravated by
unavoidable hard living and unavoidable hard
shaking. (Laughter.) Ladies and gentlemen, when
I say this I am not charging anyone with neglect.
The people of this diocese, and especially the
people in the country, have given me hospitality
in the most generous way. (Applause.) But as
one advances in years, getting wetting to the skin
brings on twinges of rheumatism and the like :
and eating good wholesome food which is not well
cooked is not conducive to health when the diges-
tion is delicate. (Laughter and applause.)”
Bishop Moorhouse seems to us to argue like a
bushman. “ Why should I expose myself to re-
peated drenchings and bush cookery, just to look
after a lot of confounded sheep,"when I am offered
a snug billet in town, with higher wages and a nice
social position?” Only the good bishop is too deli-
cate to refer to the wages question, or to the social
promotion. It is the heavier mental strain he is
running after, which is remarkable self-sacrifice
in a person who is so reluctant to con-
tinue to subject himself to the physical
strain. We shall never hear Dr. Moorhouse s
name mentioned, hereafter, without thinking
of St. Paul -by way of contrast. St. Paul does
not appear to have had a delicate digestion, nor a
particular inaptitude for supporting physical
strain. He probably got drenched to the skin
when shipwrecked at Cyprus, and as against Dr*
Moorhouse’s repeated dienchings, jolting buggy*
storm-driven branches, and hard fare, Paul had
to record, and Bishop Moorhouse would be jus-
tified in recording, his openmg sentence as almost
offensively personal.
“Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a
fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in
stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent,
in deaths oft. Of the Jews five times received I
forty stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten with
rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered ship-
wreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep;
In journeying often, in perils of waters, in perils
of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in
perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in
perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in
perils among false brethren; la weariness and
painfulnees, in watchings often, in hunger and
thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
Beside those things that are without, that which
cometh upon me daily, the care of all the
churches If I must needs glory, £
will glory of the things which concern mine
infirmities.”
(Possible this is St. Paul’s manner of conveying
that his “ digestion was delicate.”)
“In Damascus the governor under Aretas, the
king, kept the city of the Damascenes with a
garrison, desirous to apprehend me : And
through a window in a basket was I let down by
the wall, and escaped his hands.”
These outrages neither of the Governors—the
Marquis of Normanby and Sir Henry
Loch— with whom Bishop Moorhouse had
to do, would, we conceive, have ventured upon.
But, of course, all this is beside the question.
The good Bishop defined his motives for abandon-
ing the Victorian to accept the Manchesterian See,
so as to prevent the chance of misconception. He
believed that he would “ be able to work for a
longer period in the Church of God if he changed
the place of his labours.” This, it will be seen, is
quite a Pauline line of reasoning, being, in fact,
probably identical with the method of ratiocina-
tion which impelled the Saint to leave Damascus.
But we venture, with all respect, to doubt
whether Dr. Moorhouse, in his case, has regarded
all the circumstances. He has not, we fear,
weighed naturally the probable influence upon
longevity of a prelatical cuisine in England, acting
upon “ digestion which is delicate.”
4
Bfalthus and Vanderbilt
The S.M. Herald has so servile a reverence for
accepted theories, and the writer who contributes
under the style of “Nova Cambria” is somuih
responsible for the Herald’s methods, that it is
unusual to observe the germ of a half-thought,
apparently effecting complete acquiescence in the
system of Malthus, in a paper by that gentleman.
Vanderbilt, it ig alleged by “Nova Cambria,”
by organizing the railways of the United States,
cheapened transit, and consequently oheaDen«a
food in the Eastern States. Pened
“This,” argues “Nova Cambria,” “mak«« -
great modification in Malthus’ a gument V
contended that population could increase
than food, because capital paid tato Sw&fSjH
fefa® d onH?»S ,00d Wlthout
Now the population theory of Malthus is the one
grand arch upon which the whole justification w
inequality of human conditions is built. Mankind
tends to i - crease faster than the means of subsist
ence, says Malthus, and consequently the weakest
go the wall, and the struggle for existence must
continue to the end of time. The redundant podu.
must be kept down somehow, says the rev
gentleman, and unless the poor will be thoughtful
enough to do without matrimony and illicit con
nections of a fruitful kind, there must be wars'
and starvations, and slums, and deadly miseiw
right along. In short, as the poor are so mall/
nantly obdurate that they will not leave to th«
rich the monopoly of sexual enjoyments aa
an addition to their other monopolies, earth
must be a hell to the last day. This is
really too bad, considering.frhowJiimmense n
proportion of mankind-and chiefly the poor
who, as Lord Tennyson sang, “in the lump are
lead ”—is doomed to suffer an eternity of hell
after they are done with this world. That is to
say, if one adopts the views of reverend gentle
men,suoh Mr. Malthus and “Nova Cambria”
We would recommend the latter gentleman to
give a little attention to Henry George's
attempted refutation of Malthus’ entire argu-
ment. For it is evident that even the virtues of
the god-like Vanderbilt must be impotent to
arrest the doom of humanity if Malthus be cor
rect in his main contention. If population, under
all conceivable conditions compatible with general
human happiness, tends to increase, it matters
not a jot whether the productiveness of the earth
be increasing, nor in what ratio. For it is clear that
sooner or later, a time will arrive when-in default
of wars, starvation and miseries-there won’t be
standing room on the earth for all the people! A
paradox; a paradox; a most amusing paradox I
Obscenity in the Churches.
The Rev. Joseph Barnier, of Sydney, has taken
it upon himself to denounce theatres on acoount
chiefly of the “ indecent expressions ” used there,
and the " shock to moral sensibilities ” likely to be
felt by good people who attend them. It is about
time that parsons gave up this line of abuse
Does the Rev. Joseph never bewail the “indecent
expressions ” which he is ordered to read to mixed
congregations from his pulpit or desk ? On Sun-
day, the 14th inst., the second evening lesson of
the Anglican lectionary comprised the 7th chapter
of the Ist Corinthians. We listened to that lesson,
falteringly read by a too conscious parson, and
dare to say that no more “ indecent expressions ”
have been used on the Sydney stage as long as we
hava known it than are contained in that chapter-
nor did ever in our theatre-going experience a
mixed audience receive a greater “moral shock to
their sensibilities” than did the listeners to that
incomprehensible and unsavory chapter. It was
positively painful to see that congregation
Young men and girls strove to appear pre-occul
pied, but only succeeded in showing that they
deeply felt the insult to their modesty; old men and
women stared straight before them with a fixedness
that betrayed their thoughts; and children listened
intently to something that was to them new,
and only occ;stonally understandable. That the
church should permit such passages to be read is
a marvel, that it should order their use is an in-
delible disgrace. The hackneyed clerical argu-
ment to all this would be “ to the pure all thicga
are pure.” If this is of force when used for the
benefit of the pulpit it will be equally powerful
when applied to the stage. But we dispute its
applicability. Let any of the parsons who read
this chapter on Sunday night use Blmilar phrases
when amusing the guests at the next tea party he
attends, and he will find that the room has at least
one door, by means of which either he or his
hearers will make a speedy exit—unless, indeed,
they prefer to pitch him out of the window. The
Church requires more radioal measures of reform
than the Stage. Time was when Shakespeare’s
plays, as produced on the stage, contained some
very highly spiced passages, which in those coarser
days were not repugnant to the tenor of social
life, but with the advance of thought and morality
these plays have been expurgated and adapted to
the age so that they can now bo listened to by
persons the most modest and sensitive. The Bible,
on the contrary, has not been so revised, and the
oonsequence is that church audiences, which are
supposed to contain the most modest ornaments
of womanhood, ara continually shocked by having
such chapters as this 7th Corinthians, rung in to
their indignant and disgusted ears. And, again, the
most lewd of the plays of a former age have bean
laid aside by the mandate of an advancing moral-
ity; the most repulsive (to a mixed audience)
chapters of the Bible are, on the contrary, still
placed among the lessons to be publicly read.
Reform your lectionary, Mr. Joseph Barnieb,
before you again dare to condemn a calling of
whose vices you know nothing except by hearsay.
See that all that is ordered to be read to your con-
gregation is pure and fit to be publioly listened to
by modest men and women, before you venture
to anathematise evils existing chiefly in your own
envious imagination. For ourselves we could
ask the most modest and virtuous ladies in
Australia to go to any of the Sydney theatres, and
be certain that no word uttered on the stage will
make the m wish they were elsewhere, but if we
go with them to church, we are never sure that
they miv not hear verses which will make them
wish that the earth would open to hide their
trepidation and shame. You may read through
every play put upon the stage during the last
year, Mr. Barnier, and you will not find anything
so shocking to a promiscuous audience as the
one ohapter we cite. And this is only one out of
a number. For ourselves, we will take care that
in future we will find out what the lessons are
like before we face the pulpit music—when such
homilies as that of last Sunday are to be pro-
duced, we will cautiously remain with the unre-
generate outside. Examine your conscience on
tt i i point, reverend sir, and then sit up and let us
kuow by aa early post exactly how you feel,


- Want’s motto: “ Retrench.” When
the fore retrenchment is a necessity.
SmV not begin with his own salary as Attorney-
general ?
tiarrv Levien is waiting till the meeting of
lfament to “startle the community,” by pub-
matter which has lately come under his
iigmng » t leagt g 0 he declared at the Tamworth
A Rosy Billet.
“Mr. Garrett, M.L.A., has, without notice to his constituents departed for England, leaving his political affairs in the hands of Sir John Robertson ."—Daily paper.
OLD SIR JACK IS HERE SEEN REPRESENTING TO THE BEST OF HIS ABILITY THE ABSENT THOMAS.
(VSoW,) banquet to Dr. Pratt. We would like to
«nowif the Tamworth champagne was Goaford
cKuifl. We remember he had a secret at the
. Honest James Squire Parnell ” banquet. He has
it still. Very still.
.We are informed that in the Wagga dis-
vnpctheie is a jewel of a magistrate who tnvarl-
“,-y charges a fee of two shillings for affidavits
aca declarations. A selector tells us that on
the first laud office day it was the topic of general
oonversation, the wily J P. having on that flay
landed between 30 and 00 ilorins from the unsus-
pecting yeomen who brought their forms to him
to be witnessed. In this there is possibly to be
found some explanation of the general desire to
be placed on the commission. We need not men-
tion that magistrates have no right or authority
to make e,uch charges, and that by doing so tney
render themselves liable to prosecution for extor-
tion. We recommend our informant to bring
the matter under the notice of the Colonial
Secretary.
Puddledock, in Australia, is now famous
for Its poet, criticised in a recent issue of The
Bulletin. We don’t suppose many Australians
know where the English Puddledock is It lies a
mile or two from Warley Barracks in Essex, and
the came recalls to the writer’s memory the first
of many accidents he has seen ou a “ Stipple ”
course. Mr. Tilbury, Lydia Thompson’s first hus-
band, was killed there by a very simple fall at a
drop. He landed so as to break no bones, but his
skull was starred, as he rolled over, just like an
asterisk. His wife was to act (at the Lyceum, we
think) that night, but a telegram brought her
down in time to see Tilbury alive, though uncon-
scious. We believe he was the inventor of the
“pretty horse-breakers” of a quarter of a cen-
tury back. Certainly, he taught and mounted
many of them from his school near Buckingham
Gate.
With customary generosity, Messrs. Gor-
don and Gorch have presented us with a copy of
the “Australian Handbook” for 1880. The
volume is distinctly lacking in wit, and in point ol
humour can only rank with the C. of E Recjbd
and the weekly Zachary. There is also a want of
continuity la much of the Directory matter which
will preclude its extensive adoption for general
reading,—exoept, perhaps, in the country, where
men are often so hard pushed for intellectual food
that we have been told that even the Sydney
Mail has occasionally been taken up as the last re-
source of mental desperation. Notwithstanding
these blemishes, the “ Handbook ” will doubtless
secure a large sale. The emu and kangaroo on
the cover are alone worth the price of the whole
volume, which does not contain a single line cal-
culated to imprint a blush on the sensitive cheek
of modest maidenhood. It contains all sorts of
information from the age of the Queen to the
price of populous cheese in Pafdy's market.
The human system will be braced up against
ehane-es of temperature by drinking the well
known tonic, Wolfe's Schnapps.


Personak
Items
Henry of Battenberg is known in London
as Prince Beatrice.
De Lesseps says he will sail through
Panama Canal on 31*t December, 1888.
Now we know why one always meets
Cabinet Ministers cabbing- it. Opposition guns
don’t draw salaries.
Thomas Garrett, M.L. A. for Camden, has
gone to England. It is rumoured that he intends
to enquire into the working of the Maine Liquor
laws with a view of introducing them to N.S W.
Violet Wordsworth, a grand daughter of
Wordsworth, the poet, was married the other day
to a Liverpool solicitor named Jones, who there-
upon changed his commonplace name to the more
poetical one of Wordsworth.
“Do you thiak I am in partnership with
Water Jug was the suggestive enquiry
of a very small, but equally talented, Sydney
barrister as he pointed to a 2, which should have
been a 5, marked upon a brief just handed to him.
“Mr. Stead,” we read, “has severed his
connection with the Pall Mall Gazette, and an-
nounces that he will soon start a daily newspaper
of his own, in which he will have no stockuoiders
to hold him bick from what he calls his radical
evangelistic work.”
“It is stated ” said the Wentworth Advo-
cate last week, “thit Phil May, the celebrated
caricaturist, is on his way to Australia. You
can't keep anything lrom these back-block scii-
tiilators. In about two years' time the Advoc ate
will find that Mr. Phil May acceded to the bCL
letin staff in December last.
A Sunny Corner (N.S. W.) man, a pretty
smart one, too, just about this time iatt year
parted with two fourteenths ia the Broken Hill
mine to enable h m to purchase 100 shares in the
Sunny Corner, then stliing at £5 10s. By late
quotations hia Sunny Ccrners represents a value of
£lOO, and the diapcsnd-of interest ia the Broken
Hill, £35.000! Such is life!
The flippant and ambitious W. P. Crick
threw a glass of water in the fsce of another mem-
ber of Sydney School of Arts Debating Club and
war expelled fir hia offence. Alderman J. D.
Young, M.LA, has now M.L 4. ted Cricks ex-
ample by throwiog water in the face of Alderman
Taylor at a Sydney City Council meeting. But
the City Council d. n't act as the School of Ar a
club did .
Adelina Patti is under the doctor’s care,
being treated for a bronchial affection. Operatic
stars—feminine and masculine—are alwass being
worried by “affections.” Patti has long languished
under the affection of Signor Nicolinl, and now
she has a now one in the bronchial tubes. She
calls this her misplaced “affection.” Talking of
all that sort of thing, by th j way, our own Verdi
is likely to be back in Australia toon.
Egremont, who some time ago eloped
with the cash-box of a South Australian Building
Society, has been turned over from Bow-street,
London, to William-street, Adelaide, to answer to
the law for his act. Poor Godfrey, the way of the
oesh-box snatcher is hard. E iremont mado verses
once upon a time with a view to becoming
famous and failed. tried embe zz emeat once
only and succeeded. From verse to worse.
That forceful pressman, Mr. G. M. Rted,
managing editor o: the Austiialtan Press, pub-
lished in London, is at present making atourol
the colonies He is a very old Queenslander, hav-
ing been Presbyterian minister in Maryborough
many years ago. He dropped the " reverend ”
and gave himself to polities and literature, lie
was the first editor-and psrt proprietor-of that
most successful paper, the Auckland Star.
The “serious depression of spirits” from
which Princess Christian has been suffering, re-
minds us that melancholia is one of the family
failings. Her great grandfather, George the
Third, was so “ melancholy ” that they had to hide
him away; her grandfather, the Duke of Kent,
was decidedly “ odd ” at limes, and her mother,
the Queen, is—well not exactly a lively lady. Wo
are soiry for the Princess Christian. She is just in
the prime of life, and her husband is-56.
It appears characteristic of the departing
Australian who is about to visit the mothir
country that his main trouble always is separa-
tion from his wife and family. At a banquet ten-
dered to a Sydney alderman last week, he declared
that parting with his family was so painful to
him that nothing would again induce him to leave
them. This love of home and family ties is the
true secret of our native greatness. “From
scenes like this Australia's grandeur springs.”
Um.
Premier Gillies, as the world knows, gave
a penny to the boots at the Palace Hotel, Kchuca
(Vic.), for carrying his luggage to the station. The
facetious C. E. Jones, M.P., has purchased that
copper from an Echuca publican into whose hands
it fell. J ones intends to sho sv the penny to Gillies
when the House assembles, and then lie will rai-fie
it among the members. The proceeds of the raffle
will he handed to the boots who exposed “the
consummate meanness of the Premier of Vic-
toria.”
The Field Naturalists’ Club of Melbourne,
a society which spends its time chiefly in hunting
after new kinds of thistles, and prospecting for
decrepit frogs in company with an .onion-net on a
stick, had the extreme pleasure in giving the
atheistical Jos. Symes a snub lately. An
audacious member nominated Jos., and the shal-
low blasphemer was blackballed with alacrity, and
the elub rejoiced with an exceeding great rejoice.
Probably those men of scienoe were afraid the un-
godly one would teach them something.
During the late electoral campaign in Bal-
larat, C. E. Jone 3, while addressing bis constituents
one evening, was interrupted by a well-known
person with “ What about the mint sauce? ’
“How about the £500?” C.E. held the speaker
with his glittering eye for a moment, paused
amidst great silence, then said, slowly and empha-
tically, “ That fellow would barter hia soul for
one-fifth the amount named if he could only get
anyone fool enough to make such a bad bargain!”
It is needless to say that Jones was not interrupted
again tnat night.
Mr. Francis Tait, M.P., of Goulburn, is,
says one of the papers, “ a candidate for a seat on
the directorate of the A.M P. Society. Mr. Tait is
well-known as a former missionary and a most
respected minister of the Wesleyan Church. He
was compelled by affection of the throat to relia-
quish his ministerial work, and betook himself to
business pursuits, where his exceptional business
abilities have won for him a brilliant success.”
We wonder how it is that the cute Francis, unable
to raise up his voice In the pulpit, is capable of
raising up his voice in Parliament ?
Prince Bismarck, says a last week’s cable-
gram, “is suffering from rheumatic gout.” Bis-
marck’s health has long caused the gravest
anxiety in Germany. Continual sleeplessness is
said to have worn him out: He gives audienoes
to the Ministers lying in a gieat easy chair, from
which he rarely rises, and lassitude of body indi-
cated by his attitude is also said to have affected
his mind, which is rapidly losing its fertility of
idea and resource, and even its firmness/ At
night he is racked with rheumatic gout pains,
which banish sleep, and which themselves have
defied every specific that his physician can devise.
It is alleged by a N.Z. paper that while
Cardinal Moran was staying the other day at the I
residence of Mr. E. B. Cargill (father-in-law of Mr.
Petre, a well-known RC. architect) a fine bull
on the estate “caught sight of the Cardinal in his
soarlet robes, and, not being able to get at his
Eminence, went incontinently mad. and had to be
@hot. The animal was a very valuable one.” The
author of this story, we doubt not, is our dear old
friend, Mr. Benjamin Trovato. Rev. Zaohary
Bar y, of Sydney, believes in the communion of
saints and will offer up a prayer for the repose of
the soul of this most intelligent Protestant animal.
There are people who affect to be surprised
and shocked at the antipathy the Irish have to
their landlords. Well, let them listen to this.
Lord Cole, an Irish peer, lately stated in public
.“that he would be glad to see the Catholics
hunted cut of Fermanagh.” And we have no
doubt he would carry out his wish with a pack of
bloodhounds if he dared. One of the Redmonds
took early occasion to comment upon this amiable
speech, and remarked wits grim humour that “ he
would not be surprised to hear that s jmething had
happened to Lord Cole.” Neither would we—
something with an inquest to follow.
The debating power of theN.S.W. Assembly
will suffer for the remainder of the session in con-
sequence of the absence of R Hoddie D White,
member for Gloucester, who started for England,
par Austral, on Saturday. But that little bridge,
and town deck, will still be surrounded with an
occasional halo of beaming eloquence, for Mr. F.
Gibbes, M L A, for Newtown, has, it is rumoured,
consented to give the Minister the “ mother of a
tongue-banginv,” if any further delay takes place.
Come to think of it, Mr. Gibbes is the right man to
take the plaoe of Mr. White. The teetotallers
always atsist one another in this way.
Mrs. Stephens, the suspected murderess of
poor Old Plum, the Wangaratta farmer, claims to
be a descendant of Sir John Moore, who was
" buried darkly at dead of night ” on the battie-
llrld of Corunna. The inßtinct of slaughter seems
to have run in the family. We wonder what Sir
John would think of his descendant if he could
know of her games ? His troubles, we suppose. If
instead of being his descendant, she had been bis
contemporary, and a camp-follower, she would
probably have dugup bijbody, stolen the “martial
cloak” that his soldiers folded “around him,”—and
thusanothergood poem wouldhavehad no legs to
itand on.
A London alderman, Sir Andrew Lusk,
ha 9 got himself into hot water through trying to
be “funny” in his judicial capacity A batoh
of shivering flower-girls were brought before
him at the Mansion House, charged with obstruct-
ing the thoroughfare. For a man like this merry
THE LATEST FABHION.
T his youog lady is not immodestly dressed. The back of her costume is tilled in
with flesh-coloured silk. At a little distance you cannot tell that it is there, but the
young lady’s conscience is easy—very easy.
Andrew, who started life with fourpence, and
eventually sank to be Lord Mayor and M.P., there
is something humorous about poverty in rags.
He waxed j ocular, addressed the white-faced cul-
prits as “a Dice bunch of roses,” and threatened
to send them to gaol—all in fun. Sir Andrew
didn’t know that his “wheezes” were in brutal
bad taste—how should he? what you will
about aldermen (who start life with.fourpence), no
one can accuse ’om of delicacy of feeling.
It is refreshing to learn that Mr. Boehm’s
model for the Sydney statue of the Queen has
been “ approved of by the Earl of Rosebery and
Sir Saul Samuel.” The approval of these two
sapient art critics ought to be all-sutfloient for us.
Evidently the statue will deal gently with the
Royal wrinkles and add several to the Royal
stature. By the bye, a truthful representation of
her Majesty’s figure would scarcely impress the
most loyal of subjects. Very few, comparatively,
of those loyal subjects have ever seen their
Sovereign Lady in a perpendicular position. Very
few, in fact, have seen her at all—but no matter.
Well, seated in a carriage, the Queen appe trs to
be a lady of average height, but when she stands
up that illusion is dispelled. The fpectator is
then reminded of the courtly Spanish proverb:
“ A queen has no legs.”
A novelty in electioneering was intro-
duced by Mr. John Woods, of Coiac (Vie), pro-
prietor of the local Herald. In offering himself
to the electors, John, to whom advertising comes
cheaply, after setting forth his policy and promises,
calls a dbid man from the solitudes of the ceme-
tery to write an ad. for him“ The shade of W.
J. O’Hca epeaketh: Liberal electors, those of jou
who remember me with gratitude, vote for my
best friend and supporter, John Woods, the true
liberal. Remember the heavy losses ho sustained
through lighting your battles He sever asked
you for a penny towards those expenses; send him
to occupy my seat. He will be true to you; he
was true to me, and followed my remains to the
grave. Farewell.” Comment on this is needless.
The man who would not hesitate to use the dead
would surely agitate the living. John may get in
next time.
From Mr. Froude’s book “Oceana”:—
“ Among the friends who had come with us from
Auckland was an English gentleman, Colonel
Blank. At some town where we stopped late one
night, two ladies bad been put into the railway
carriage with us. We were going to bed and paid
no attention to them. The berth under Colonel
Blank happened to be vacant. To one of these
new arrivals, without his being aware of it, this
berth was assigned as a sleeping place. Tne lady
gathered herself in and the same leather curtain
fell over them both. In the morning, the colonel
feeling about for his underclothes, dropped
his drawers by accident over t e tide of
the bed. From below he saw thrust a small,
dainty, and Derfectly white hand, with a diamond
ring and a delicate lace frill round the wrist. It
was holding up the article in question, and a brisk,
ringing voice said : ‘ Guess this belongs to you.’ ”
The London correspondent of the Free-
mans Journal (Dublin) says this of the opening
of Parliament:—“ Her Majesty looked more in-
significant and dumpy than ever. •' Her face bears
an indesoribable expression of misery and trouble.
Her imperiousness has grown more observable.
Lord Salisbury had a taste of his royal mistress’s
quality in this respect. After she had taken her
place on the throne, Lord Salisbury beside her, in
his faded peer’s robes, with the sword of State in
his right hand—looking for all the world like a bent
pilgrim with his staff—the noble lord took the
liberty of looking round the house. In doing
this he partly turned his back on the Queen, who,
having motioned him to resume his position
facing her, without effect, rapped her fan sharply
on her royal knuckles, and brought the Prime
Minister to attention with as much rapidity as if
a pin had been stuck in him. Nothing could be
more striking than the resemblance borne by the
Prince of Wales in his royal robes to Henry v III.”
There is atuarithmetical quarrel going on
between Mr. Thaddeus O’Kane, of the Northsrn
Miner, and Mr;. William Coote, respecting the
financial responsibilities of that part of Queeis-
land which is looking for 'Separation. In the
course of the quhrrel high words are heard now
and again. This is unbrotherly“ We know that
Mr. Coote’s statements on any subject do not
carry any weight in Brisbane. He has been en-
gaged as a “ free lance ” so loDg that he has lost all
sense of moral responsibility for his statements.
If they serve his party ho is content. ’ But we re-
member Mr. Coote turning up the obverse side of
the medal some six or seven years ago. He was
in the witness-box, about some case, in the
Supreme Court, iu Brisbane, and having described
himself as a “journalist” he declined to Jet him-
self be addressed as a “pressman.” The Court
asked where the difference in meaning lay,'when
the dignified witness explained that a journalist
wrote what in his opinio i was right, but that a
pressman was a hireling who wrote to order.
Before Bishop Moorhouseleft for England,
for “ fresh thousands and pickings new,” his
aproned brethren presented him with a parting
address. The mosr striking features about that
address were the signatures at the bottom of it.
Some bishops’ professional aliases must be rather
inconvenient. George H. North Queensland, for
Instance, has a longish name to sign when he gives
a receipt for the diocesan “screw.” Samuel
Ballarat and W. T. T Brisbane ought to be crisp,
businesslike divines if they act ud to their titles.
On the other band, Sydney Riverina must be a
sentimental bard. No matter how practical his
turn of mind in the early curate days, we main-
tain that a Sydney Hiverina would necessarily
absorb large quantities of dreamy sentiment into
his system It is a name for which a long-haired,
emaciated poet would; willingly swop ten years
of his life; a name to be whispered in the moon-
light, to be bestowed on a Family Herald
romance, to be rolled softly under the tongue of
one of George Darrell’s dramatic heroines. It is
a languorous, velvety, soul-inspiring name, and we
sincerely hope the good bishop is doing full justice
to it.
“ William Beach, the champion sculler,
accompanied by Mr J. Deeble, is to leave for the
old country on the 37th inst.” We don’t know what
they will do in the old country towards making
some alteration in the oratorical style of William,
but we should like to see him come back “ quite a
gentleman,” as Hanlan was so fond of terming
Mr. Beach,” with sly malice, at the conclusion
of that orator’s most desolate efforts. We don’t
expect much enthusiasm will be got up in Eng-
land, unless indeed William is challenged and
beaten by Perkins, whose career out here was of
such a triumphant nature. Perhaps Largan will
have a turn at Beach also. There was more fun
in him, anyhow, than in all the other scullers put
together. He never went out on the water to
take his feet for a row, but some calamity hap-
pened him. He generally turned over. But no
matter how his baclters swore, Largan was always
in the best of humour. Ween he rowed Pearoe
on the Parramatta River, and bis boat broke
shortly after the start, Largan, with a grin on him
from ear to ear, was deep in all-fours at Gasooigne’s
long before his antagonist had reached the goal of
victory.
As “Ranger of Windsor Home Park ”
Prince Christian—husband of the Princess Helena
—gets £5OO a year from that milch cow of German
tramps—the British Empire. We were onoe a
“ Ranger ’’—belonged to the 88th Regiment. For
this we got 4d. a day with an unlimited allowance
of cat-o-nine-tails thrown in when we got too
cheeky or went off to look for another job. Be-
sides these perquisites, a musket bullet was pre-
sented to us one night in the trenches by another
Ranger in the employment of Czar Nicholas, and
the year after, one of Nana Sahib's m?n took such
a fancy to us as to leave the top of his lance under
our shoulder blade. The Russians and Sepoys of
those days were the most hospitable people you’d
find in a day’s walk—dropped in upon you without
any ceremony and brought all their friends-many
of whom it was neoessary to detain—just to see
what was inside ’em. Our reward for all this?
Sixpence a day for 15 months with the promise of
a deferred pension of 4d. per diem for the balance*
of life remaining to us after 00. Ten years more
have to run Wore entering on our reward. We
intend tu j>. .no priLOOiy income yet, or dio—
Intend to have 40 years out of the British tax-
payer yet, just'to spite him for the way he served
us In the long ago. Yes, there’s a difference be-
tween ’listing in the Connaught Bangers humping
aknapsaok through Bengal or sitting in the way
of Muscovite bullets, and becoming a “ Banger of
Windsor Heme Park ” with a Queen’s daughter to
keep you company.
That aggressive freethinker, Joseph Symes,
went last week to " spread the cause ” at Weodend,
Victoria. The looals gathered in force, and Joseph
was treated worse than a parliamentary candidate.
He had hardly started tne first round on super-
stition before an egg attached itself to bis person
with the pertinacity peouliar to hen-fruit. It was
an aged egg, a back number, dating as far into the
past as 1850. The attack was followed up with
bluestone and execration. Thinking discretion
the better part of valour, the long apostate and a
supporter sought the seclusion of a baok room
and waited in darkness till they thought the foe
had decamped. Then they sallied forth. But the
enemy was about and spotted the revllers of re-
vealed religion Hoots and yells signalised the
discovery, and the sceptics had to pick up their
leather and travel for it, hotly pursued by the
push. The police station was their haven of nope,
but they were refused admission to the domicile of
the protectors of the sweet calm of Woodend. Only
the missus and a cat were at home, and they be-
longed to the opposition, so once more Joseph and
his solitary bodyguard had to face the crowd.
Stale eggs and harder metal began to oome in
again with promptness and accuraoy. But Mr.
Symes did not care about officiating as Aunt Sally
to an excited mob any longer than was absolutely
necessary, so clutohing a three-legged bush-stool
whioh happened to be handy, he invited his friend
to come on and waded in. He laid out four or live
defenders of the faith before his olub went to pieoes.
Then a parley was called, and it is said that for
£lO the gentlemen of Weodend agreed to throw
up the leud. Ten minutes were allowed to pro-
duce the sum, and all repaired to a pub.; the trio
were permitted to go in and scrape up the lucre.
They took half an hour over a meal, then slipped
out at the back into a.buggy, and away, followed
for a quarter of a mile by a hootiDg and discon-
solate mob. Now, Jos. can tell you without a
moment of thought which is the wooden end of
the Woodend locals. He is going to try them again
shortly, however.
This is the “Vagabond’s” style now:—
“ The other day I bad occasion to write a slight
historical sketch of Victoria. My then secretary
spent some hours at the Publio Library making
notes from the authorities.” “My then secretary I”
A flood of recollections overwhelms us. Years
ago—twelve years ago-we occasionally saw in
Melbourne the “ secretary ” of another literary
light. It was nothing to him to spend hours in the
Library. Why, he lived there! At least, he did in
the day-time. Where he lived at night is more
than we dare trust ourselves to imagine. He
seemed to us to be a man who did not fritter his
time or his brains away on a lot of subjects but
kr.pt steadily to one, Anyhow, every time we
saw him he was seated in the last and
darkest alcove on the left-hand side as you go in—
the furthest off from the Librarian. And he was
always asleep. We don’t know, what class of works
that alcove contained, but we believe they were
of an abstruse description. Perhaps that was
why he was asleep. We began to like him
after we had been in a few times and found
him in thp same place and in the same state
on each occasion. He, seemed to have grown
there, or to have come In the first morning the
Library was opened and never to have gone out
after. But we knew better. We noticed on look- ,
lng at him two or three mornings ruoning that he
had different kinds of grass in his hair eaoh time,
and once he bad enough little twigs in it to make a
bird’s nest. From these signs we concluded that,
like bold AUan-a-Dale, “ the high vault of heaven,
with its crescent so pale,” was the only kind of
roof he C9red to sleep under. That secretary man
is dead now, we suppose. Making notes in all nro-
bability killed him. By and bye, when the Vag’s
“ then secretary ” dies, his once-master will, if ne
has left in him any Bense of gratitude, put a little
headstone over the remains of his coadjutor. The
epitaph need only be—
Born
Died
“ My then Secretary.”
That will be fame.enough for one corpse. It
would only be a glutton that would want more.
Mr. Crooks—what a happy name for the
man, by the way—who succeeded so splendidly in
smashing the Commercial Bank of *oUth Aus-
tralia, was another pious and God-fearing person.
He was regarded as a rook of trust. The widow
and the orphan, the little shopkeeper and the
artisan, placed their small savings in the bank of
whioh he was manager, with the same faith as
though they had “ laid them up in heaven. He
CROOKS,
Lato Manager of the Commercial Bank of B. A.
wiil have a nice balance-sheet to make up for the
general audit at Jehosbophat. They say that he
asked for some books to read when he was going
to gaol, and out of a number offered him, selected
“Tne History of England.” It is to be hoped he
will have to stay in long enough to be able to ear
it by heart backwards. There is some good read-
ing in it, though. He should find the acoount of
t he South Sea Swindle interesting.
Will McDonald’s Story.
I had ecxema and salt rheum for seventeen years.
I had it on my head, face, neck, arms, and legs. I
was not able to walk, ®nly on my han s and knees,
for one year. I have not been able to help myself
for eight years. I tried hundreds of remedies; not
on 6 had the least eifeot. The doctors said my case
wfis incurable; so my parents tried everything that
came along. I saw your advertisement and oon-
oluded to try Cuticura Remedies The Cutictra
brought the humour to the surfaoe of my skin It
would drop off as it came out. uatill now I am en-
tirely well. All I can say is I thank you most
heartly for my cure. Any person who thinks this
letter a fraud, let them write or come and see me.
and find out for themselves. WILL Mo DONALD
3512 Dearborn Bt., Chicago. 111.
Sworn to before the British Consul.
“ I must oonfess I was agreeably surprised
gt the full, rich aroma possessed by Wolfe’s
Schnapps.”
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sals and Dare, decorators. Ball
and barquet rooms tastefully deoorated with
dag and tl.ral decorations, 60>$ Hunter-street
Sydney.*
A generous use of Wolfe’s Schnapps will impart
vigour and strength to the body and tone to the
system.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
••The Claimant” has just delivered a leo-
in Dublin. He drew an immense audience,
- bulled him as he oame on with orles of “ Hallo
Roger!” and “Wagga Wagga!” All the other
performers with him were hissed off. “ Sir Roger"
was In evening dress, and is described as tall of
gtsture, portly build, of dark complexion, and as
solemn as a professional undertaker In appear-
ance. His powers of oratory are not good, his
B oloe is bad, and bis twenty-minutes’ address whs
\ the plainest character.... Sir James Martin will
be 66 next month. Years, of course Mr. Dailey
is 53 .."There Is no chanoe for temperance re-
formers In this Parliament,!’ said a Surry Hills
marson last Bunday. How sad. But there is a big
chance for them outside Parliament if they only
ait t 0 B ee the House home after a late sitting....
tk wonderful fact is that W. Gaunsoa was not a
£™ndate at the Jate Victorian general election,
■william has contested at least twelve seats in ten
and has forfeited his deposit half-a-dozein
ttlmes. He apparently owns himself beaten at last.
* » *
An eminent nobleman was lately presiding
» London Press dinner. He concluded his few
fMhleremarks by proposlog the “health of Gut
•lAhorir ’’ Someone pulled his ooat-tatls and whis-
IfJifld that he was dead. “ I regret,” continued
Fhonnhleman. “toannounse that intelligence has
been reoeived that Gutteuberg is dead.”....
Tvnm a Vienna newspaper; —• A respectable mar-
ked couple, of whom the husband is no dancer,
dflsires to make the acquaintance of an equally
rMnecUblo ooup'o where the wife Is no dancer
in order to visit bsl s in oompiny....Lydia
ii“hnmnson is now a widow and wears black tights
htr way of mourning ..Mr. W. H. Gladstone, “the
Eldest son of the greatest Parliamentarian in Eng-
land "isamlld-manne et. reti-ing young man. of
flnormous physioal strength.?ln last Parliament he
Mcentmostof his time iu the darkest corner he
nmild And under the galcry. and .made only one
aneecb He alwajs left the Houso when his
father'rose to speak.... The richest men in the
land of the Cz irs at the present time are the two
Nobel brothers. While travelling in interior Rus-
81a they saw thousands of acres of land aglow with
the light of oil-ga J . They at oace purchased
entire districts of the sppirently worthless
fields sunk oil-wells, and now control more
petroleum than any oonbarn in the world
Their wealth is really beyond ca'culation,
though the Time» correspondent thinks that
£BOOOO 000 is not an extravagant estimate
Queen Victoria permits Henry, husband of
bsatrloe, to carry a gun round Osborne and shoot
at things previously relig ously preserved for the
sportive fancies of ihe late lamented John Brown.
He went into a tobacconist’s, bought a cigar,
aid threw a bad six penoe on the counter. He was
hurriedly departing when the dealer called after
him- ** Hold on, hold on, It’s bad!” “ Never mind,’
answered the purohaser, as he qutokly passed our,
“ I'll smoke It anyhow ”.... A doctor writes:—“ln
another tuousind ytars wa will be bald." Well, In
another thousand yeais we won’t care if we are.
Tommy asked his father the name of a large-
building which th y were passing. “ That is a
blind asylum,” said the father. 4 Then,” said
Tommy, “wbat’a the use of putting windows in
it?’ Small Boy (pointing to a picture of the
herald angels): “Is them angels, ma?” 'Mother:
“Yes, my child.” Small Boy : “ How do they
Set their night-shirts on over their wings?’....
ambetta’s tomb at Nioe has fallen Into a melan-
choly condition of neglect. At best it was only a
temporary scaffolding—a pyramid of wood covered
with wreaths and offerings. The barrier which
surrounds it is half rotten. The great tribune,
apparently, is forgotten already Genevieve
ward, at latest, was recuperating at Monterey,
California . The latest American fashion is for
unmarried women to wear a specially-designed
garter on the left leg. It is a sort of supplemen-
tary affair, and is never to be taken off, day or
night, for one year. The superstition is that
before tho expiration of that time the wearer, will
have secured a husband Sanctimonious Party:
“ My friend, they tell me you are fond of a glass.”
Old Boizer: "They are greatly mistaken: they
should have said a bottle.”... The Princess Louise
doesn’t hit it with the Duke and Duchess of Edin-
burgh, they say. Most likely the puts tco much
sugar in her tea.... Han Kar, a Chinese banker in
Canton, is said to be the wealthiest man in the
world. He psys laxes uoo ■ £9O 000,000, and is
estimated to be wortn nearly £300.100,000.
“Man, young, with good ear, but no
knowledge of music, wishes to be taugbt sent!-,
mental songs at 2s. 6d. each. Address 0.P., Age
offloe.” Quick, the harp I—we’ll teach him a song
gratis.—
The Upper Bogan correspondept of the
Dubbo Dispatch writes:—“There must, be more -
taxes raised to meet the expenditure. Let the
Ministers put 2j. cl. on to playing cards, and they
ought not to allow the law to be evaded by parties
selling packs with the corners cut off or holes
through them, but make all pay; then a pound a
year on all bachelors, and charge absentees' 5
per cent, on their incomes.” Now, this man is
waiting his time on the Upper Bogan, He should
be in the Upper House of Parliament, or the
House of Assembly at Gladesville, or the ceme-
tery, or in somelother home of the imbecile and
dead. Tax pi lying-cards, and put ]a premium on
poker, objeot to “ the corners beiag cut.” How
would a man know what sort of hand the other
fellow held ? Tax bachelors, and in a free coun-
try 1 Then why not tax barmaids, butcAiers, Bible
thumpers, barristers, boozers, and all other men
andanlmals? E/en as a bachelor-but a note on
the “oboy ” please: -
Years ago, away up country, where, we do not
care to tell,
Lived a lady—highly coloured-in a lonely
sylvan dell;
She was black, but ’twas no matter—she wpg
dirty-what of that ?
She was round where she should not be—and
where curved she should be—flat;
But her charms were all apparent, to one white
man*B eye revealed,
>So he stole her frxm his wigwam, and in camp
kept her concealed;
And they lived “away up-country,” till of imps
they raised a score,
Or there % bouts—“ our troubl;s ”on one infant less
or more—
Tnen “ hitched,” in English fashion, got them
married by thb Judge,
And now gaily on the “ wallaby ” from farm to
farm they trudge,
While the kids and “gin” with tomahawks go
ridging forest trees,
Tda.t old white man draws the lucre and Jives on
in gaudy ease.
And of hard work now not guilty, oountry papers
he writes for.
Thanking heaven, and that nigger's tribe, he’s not
a bachelor.
Wolfis’s Schnapps is imitated “ Your
Rogue loves a shining mark.” Be sure and obtain
Wolfe s.
No one can be sick if the stomach, blood, liver,
and kidneysare well. American Co.’s Hop Bitters
keeps them well. Notice
Notioe!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings. 143 Pitt-street.
Ask a lady who is her milliner, and dress-
maker, and probably she would be reticent in
answering, not desiring others to be similarly at-
tired to herself. But how different the question
Where do you get your glass and china from ? The
first question might be replied to, but the litter
most readily, for many are pleased to acquaint
their friends of the very largo choice always kept
by Bray Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, where
most people go.»
Be not deoeived by specious representa-
tions—see that you get Wolfe’s Schnapps. Accepl
no other.
OUR SONG.
O.P. desist 1 Let not thy ardour] lead
Thee into crimes of which thou knowest naught,
Thou hast a mother, maybe—O, take heed!
Twere better that thou still remain'st untaught.
•Musichath oharms to soothe the savage breast!”
Valfl, idle words! thesourc9of unknown pain;
Musio hath rifled millions of their rest,
And driven thousands from this world—insane.
Woulds’t thou, 0.P., fhy father’s gray h«ir» bring
In sorrow to the grave? Oh, bicter wrong!
Thy lister-whose soft arms around thee ding—
Would’st thou, then, slay with sentimental song ?
O,P„ desist! Heed not thy “ gli I’s” request-
'll! she who prompted thla unhap Dy ad.;
Think of thy mother ; give the ballads best;
Then Heaven will bless you and the world beglad.
High-class Photography.
We have l he honour to announce to the elite of
Sydney 1 hat wo have opened those premises in the
Royal Arcade, under the designation of the
“GBOSVSKOn Gallbkies, " where we shall carry
on the hi aiuessot hig u-ciass Photography.
We have come accompanied by a staff of com-
petent at lists t rained in leaoing English, Conti-
nental, »' <1 American Studios, at the head of whom
is Mr. 'lh'mins V. Cleave who has had the privileged
and dis i guisheu tionour of Deing afforded the
opportueiiv of assisting at the P&otoeraphing of
Her Mv>st Gracious Majesty Queen. Victoria, end
has als > himself nersonally obotoirrapbed H. tt.
H'ghnees The Prince Of Wales, in addition to
maxintr t iccures of many members of the Govern-
ing Familtts, Notiiity. and Aristocracy of England.
It will be our aim to produce only Portraiture
of the highest artistic excellence, which we vemut e
to presage wilt at cnee obtain for us an extensive
clientele Inspection is invited to the worlt ms
played m the Vestibule leading to our Studios,
CIIAISLEMONT & CIO.,
GROSVENOR GALLERIES, ROYAL ARCADE
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO/6
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MAftKEx CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 186<t.
3AB THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
ar Fashionable gnd First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunit. and a perfect fit
guaranteed- 1
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’J
Hop Bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
* Medicine ever made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDED PROM
■ops, Budiii, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
"To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Mon, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
* Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once.' It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trilling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
' ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
PT See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of disease?, even
tne most stubborn, particu-
larly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touch,
most in a few days—so that
this is net only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, out one of the nob’est
mediuinei that Gqd ever gave
to man.—The Rev. J. Wesley.
Glad tidings of certain re-
lief to S', tfeiera from seminal
weakness ny means of Foot s
Voitale Appliances.
Ti t Vo’taic deJt, es advised,
i* really a galvarc bstcery,
ns if is eomn only termed, jts
mode of application is so well
k>i< wn that. I rued n t wrste
space in »xpatiation.
A E
7?? €15,
,' ‘ “V '
2 M‘ '*
l :3 ‘k
These Vo!ta ; c Belts am a certaiD, safe, and
speedy erne lor l.ivrr Complaint, Indigestion,
S mirji l Deb'lit.y, Nervous Headaches Lumbago,
’ cut^ei, Dyuieosii, t-a'pit*tion of the Heart,
Heartburn, D zzi >668, Lank of Will Power, For-
get! uinesv Irritability, an! all complaints of a
m rvous uatuie.
The price in future will be 17 1. 6d. irstead of
00 ~ rs formerly. As T have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at less
than one-third their lormer price.
The above am uit includes medical advice, if
requlr d.
Apply at once to Dr. FOOT, Box 916, G.P.O ,
fit doey, with P O. Order for 17s. 61., and your
bait will be despatched by the return of post.
An f HUH Mi RUN & COMPANY
(Established I 860),
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR*, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGEN L’S.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioned i or Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c.. from the South* r .
C ilonies <>r New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
v*artin & Company, City Auction Matt, 'Queen
siett . Brisbane.
NERVOUI DEBILITY CUhED—Loot
bo: d re3t red without ct muding <■
man. A Medical Treatise by 8n eminent onench
hosplta physician and Parisian specialist, coni, n*
inc a simple end positive self-cure, sent post fn>
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766. t*>dn«y.
£
E
LIMITED,
356 George-street,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
BBLECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
best makers, lowest prices
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
THB JTLW PURNITUJRH
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-BTREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sjdney.
Juss, Lawsos In:,, & Co.,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Fh nitur*, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
are direct importations, and bought for
ht %h itrl D t h S. b ® 8t English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R Lawson, who hes recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest t o?sibis Cash Prices. g es at
UPHOLSTERERS* TRIMMINGS, &c ,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be uudi r the management of Mr L Tnrm
late of Messrs Da yid Jones and Co. ’ OE<8 ’
The CABINET DEPARTMENT wi 1 be under-
taken by Mr J. R Lawson, late of the firm cf
James Lawson and Sons. m
ME3BRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS,, & CO.
POME 3,0 r CHAM3.RB,
CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
¥7!VERYBODY I
lli SHOULD USE f
FSMEX.X/g
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IB MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
-n a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Process Machinery. a
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the OTTiLTTv
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD ITY
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI Gieorr e-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL OROOERB ANI) STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBEAT
HUS AID CASES, TREACLE AID DOLDEI STROP,
1 &
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
lnfants’ Food, &c.
g**. FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
. H r ARIEL! ft CO., 343 anil 345 Kaot-ltnat.
Agsiit* s


Prinoe Karageorgivios, the Russian no-
minee to the throne of Servia, has decided to expel
the present Milan, whose head uneasily wears the
crown. We wonder if Prince K.’s name was
attached to the document in one piece, or, like the
tales in the Evening News, continued in his next.
Let us warble a little lay to the air of Kara, &c.
Ho. Karafreorgivios,
Ho, Servia’s Prince, Milan,
Pray stop these foolish tricks
And think—of the Soudan;
The great Powers cannot stop
Your noisy argument,
But wo on you may drop
With Dailey’s Contingent,
And blow you high as kites,
Each Bervian bold and Russ.;
Adjusting claims of rights
Is just the game for us.
We have not cares enough,
Nor business of our own,
That’s why it comes so rough,
This letting folks alone;
Our rulers (some) want fight,
Friend Karageorgivios,
You cable out; it’s right,
The cosc will be—well, “ nix.”
We’ll pay the little bill,
’Twill square the Russian bear,
For foeman, then, we will
Have little need to care;
And when the trouble’s o’er
Come out—it’s so long since
Our Jingoes, on the shore,
Have gazed upon a Prince.
People who arrange for meetings, presen-
tations, picnics, or political addresses should
adhere religiously to the time and place of rendez-
vous, the manner of their speaking, and other
details as furnished to the Press. Breaches of
faith in this regard lead occasionally to awkward
errors. The Narandera Argus is the latest
victim of misplaced confidence. A presentation
was to be made to a local gentleman, but owing to
an accident the arrangements miscarried, and the
presentation was not made, but the Argus report
was in type, and the paper came out with a full
account of the proceedings which would have
taken place. But then similar things have hap-
pened in Bydney. Last week, for instance, an
evening paper gave an interesting account of the
swearing in of the Jennings-Robertson Coalition,
“just before we went to press.” As luck would
have it, the members of that embryo Cabinet swore
off instead of swearing in. How the boss of the
enterprising evening paper swore is not stated.
“Ah, ha!” we heard the editor of the
Barcoo Rot remark on bis last visit to Sydney as
he stood before the bar of the Vitriol and Blue-
stone, “Ah, ha! We wilfhave rum please, Miss. Two
rums.” She handed them over with a supercilious
smile, and enquired, ” Where’s your friend ?”
"My friend. Ah, I see,—my mistake, I have none,
merely used the editorial ‘ we.’ Force of habit,
you see; but we will drink the two rums,” he
added, reflectively. And for a quarter of an hour
afterwards he was trying to persuade an incredu-
lous damsel that a tintag and “a copy of our last
issue” was legal tender in Sydney for two rums.
At the conclusion of the argument he left very
speedily. Left on bis ear in fact.
OAD B M Y
O F
MUSIC.
THE PALACE of the MONARCHS of MIRTH and
MINBTRELSY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hlscocke.
80 rd WEEK 83rd
HIBCOCKS’ federal minstrels
and Specialty Union.
In their new programme of BURLESQUE and
UNADULTERATED FUN terminating with
CALLED BACK, entitled ALL BLACK.
For Vacant Dates, apply F. E. Hie cocks.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR.
Orange—Thursday and Friday, March 18,19
Mplong—Saturday and Monday, March 20, 23
Wellington—Tuesday and Wednesday, Mar. 23,24
Dubho—Thurs., Friday, and Sat., March 25,26, 27.' |
Admission—4s., 3j„ 25., and Is.
Doors open at 7 30.: Overture, 8 o’c'ock.
JAS. SMITH, l
H. E. BARNES,
Agents.
NOTHING adds so much to personal appear-
anco as a bright, clear complexion and a soft
skin. With these, the plainest features become
attractive; without them the handsomest are but
coldly impressive.
The prevalent use of powders and pigments,
proves the value placed upon the complexion.
Remembering this, and knowing the immensa
amount of injury that is caused by the use of
powders, we have much pleasure in drawing atten-
tion to a preparation which may be used without
the slightest hesitation, and whioh will produce
the effect desired. Its action is based upon purely
physiological effect, and the blonde and brunette
alike may use it. Powders are no longer neces-
sary to build up pretentions to a beautiful com-
plexion, but the face assumes that clear, trans-
parent, healthy look—that natural look—free from
every disfigurement which cause ladies so much
concern.
This preparation is now within the reach of all,
and by sending a stamped addressed envelope to
Doctor Von Gejsbebq, Box 18, Post Office, Hay-
market, Sydney, any lady will receive free,
through the post, the formula and full instruc-
tions.
m U I A T K 1 ROYAL.
I Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnkk and Musgrov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Gen. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Gratifying Inauguration of the Regular Dramatic
Season.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGHOVE’S
famous
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
by delighted audiences crowding the theatre from
floor to ceiling.
lIOODMAN BLIND.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, MARCH 18,
AT A QUARTER TO EIGHT PRECISELY,
HOODMAN BLIND.
Admission: Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
SHE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
lee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening [during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Specialty Union in
their Reflned Entertainment,
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orohestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee .. ... .. Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager.. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
23rd WEEK of the DAMPIER BEABON.
“NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS,”
' and we have achieved a most brilliant success in
our production of NO MERCY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, until further notice,
the original and emotional drama of English and
Australian life,
NO MERCY. NO MERC Y. NO MERCY.
Manager for Mr. Dampier ....FRED. GUNTHER.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 12th March, 1886.
TENDERS FOR.TEACHER S RESIDENCE.
RENDERS are invited for the erection of a
X Teacher’s Residence, at the Seven Hills Tub-
lie School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney ; and at the
Seven Hills Public School, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Teacher’s Resi-
dence, Seven Hills Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under-Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m„ on Wed-
nesday, the 31st March, 1886.
The Minister does not.bind himself to accept
tha lowest or any Tender.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
TO THE MEMBERS OFT3E AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and gentlemen,—l respectfully solicit you
Votes and Interest as a Director of your Sooiety,
of whicb I am and have been a member for 26 years.
I think it due to you to speak -with no uncertain
voice with respect to the action of the Board in
establishing a branch in England for the taking of
English risks.
I believe the step to be unwise, and that the
opinion of the members should have been obtained
prior to adopting such a momentous change in the
.policy of the society. •
I deem this the more incumbent on the direotorß
as the decision was NOT the unanimous vote of the
Board, but ONLY CARRIED by the votes of a
majority of the directors.
FREDK. LEE.
BUM VIVIMUS VIVAMUS,
PAUL’S GOLDEN PILLS
THE
QUINA-PHOSPHO NEUROTICA;
08,
BRAIN and NERVE INVIGOR AT OR.
This incomparable Medicine is unique, unparal-
leled, and invaluable; in short, the desideratum of
the age—the Paragon Specific for Nerval Debility.
This is no merely temporary “ Pick me up,” like
the Phosphines, Phosphodines, et hoc genus omne,
which assume the name of the prime element in
our glorious invention; but is at once a rational,
salutary, and permanent Remedy for that habitual
lassitude, that lack of tone or energy, that want
of mental force, that abscence of Vesprit du corps
which incapacitate so many aspiring, but unfortu-
nate, men and women from fighting successfully
in the battle of life.
“ OH, IT IS EXCELLENT TO HAVE A GIANT’S
STRENGTH 1”
Prioe: Five Shillings per bottle—containing 30
days’ supply; or, for safety in transit, £1 per ease-
containing Four bottler.
NEWTON - PAUL,
Electric Physician and Electropathist,
403 EHzahetli-striet, Sydney.
I’".
—-vgy
V<,\»;
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEBT WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER'S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
Esciplxa-tioaa, of "Lease.
Great Sale of MUSIC, STATIONERY, BOOKS, and FANCY GOODS, commencing-
MONDAY NEXT, Bth Inst.,
FOR SIX WEEKS ONLY, FOR CASH.
The stock is now being re-marked, and a discount of 25 per cent., or 4s. in the JB, will be
allowed on previous prices. r«.
The profession and the public are invited to this extraordinary chance; of replenishing
their stook of new and choice music.
Thirty shillings worth of music for £l.
Two shilling Novels for Is. 6d., all the newest books.
Japanese Bronzes, Wall-hangings, Embroideries, Vases, &c., all reduced 25 per cent.
Extraordinary value packets of Stationery for 55., 10s., and £L. Ask for Circulars tot
particulars. . .
Albums of the choicest descriptions, same reductions.
Hand-bags, Purses, Card Cases, &0., &o.
Account books, Day books, Hedgers, and Cash books, at wonderfully low prioes.
WILXJAM BULLARD,
342 George-street.
1*
y/i
SO'
&
Cj
c®
Genuine
Economical
the Queen


SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Hoodman Blind P* 8
Aitety Theatre- 1 ' No Mercy »
ALHAMBRA-Minstreley, Olio, and Farce. ... „
academy of Music.— Minstrelsy ••
There is always lor us a peculiar attrac-
tion in the performances at the Sydney Gaiety,
nsnecially during the hammer season. There is a
enarmin the audience, whether its members 101 l
rSdly in the cultured circle, or chew apples in
higher and hotter regions. Act ,? rB
o n tutors are so perfectly in touch throughout the
of every piece. If a joke is suggested,
effusive hilarity is the response, while the merest
nnff Jestion of the intrinsic superiority of virtue
over vice is greeted with the wildest demonstra-
tions of approval. If we were not bemg carried
nen along the highway which leads to
Vanderbiltiau wealth, we would like to be a
raletyaotor. Look at uampier-they yell with
viv as soon as ever they see his boots beneath the
curtain; one twirl of Alf. Bootnman’s
mnnatache sends half the house (the female half)
i^totestacy; and Lily Dampier-[MS here ob-
ift orated by tears.-ED. 8.l There will be a how-
ling wilderness of masculine cardiac devastation
iihan Miss Lily departs, for Solomon, in all his
Sory of 8 matrimonial profuseness, was not so
arrayed in brilliancy and beauty as this simple
Lily. [Patent medicine ads. in this style five
Stop.—Ed. B ]
* * *
When “No Mercy” was produced on
Saturday, the house was as crowded, more demon-
strative and more completely unanimous than a
meeting of the unemployed at “ the Statter.” The
drama is chock full of choice sentiment, and the
IS philosophy is of so high an order that it is
fioor “ the Waggerbone” must have stood on a
vate-post or a gin-case when writing it. The
moral goodness of a man who would not strike
Mother because he was his wife's brother, was a
mMterly and refined piece of spread-eagleism.
Some persons are not so particular in their con-
duct to their mother-in-iaw. But the Yag.
one huge error in the plot of No Mercy.
eis k convfct7haviDg shaken off the leg-irons, can
S e nothing better than suicide. This is the
Dlainest evidence of cowardice. He should have
Enne from his contraot in oakum-picking to a
Government contract in soft-goods and forage,
and appeared in the last act in a Potts Point man-
sion as the founder of one of our first famiiies-a
Pioneer of colonial aristocracy. Betting aside this
initial error, the unities are universally respected.
Tn the first act, the scandal soene is happily laid
near Goulburn (N.S.W.), a town whose most con-
spicuous products are sectarian sanctity and social
scandal. We have been there and know. And the
Slangs her ** missus ” in that nonchalant
Ind independent fashion which obtains Universally
fn this land of the sudorific South.
* * *
mko Mercy ” is likely to be a Mascotte
'frn the management. It is most effectively staged,
especially the last scene, where real scrub is in-
troduced, and an artistic mi-ml of green bushes
occupies the centre of the stage. Dampier is in-
tense as usual In the ebaracter of Eyton, the con-
vict and Harry Stoneham is not much over-
weighted with the business allotted to him as
Joshua Gurney. Holloway is a trifle too statuesque
and solid, but serves as a foil to Harry Leston,
who. with the aid of new-ehumism and a brogue
as broad as the back of a Lucas, does the funny
business. Myra Kemble is the wife of Eyton, and
thfihrevity of her business is its most sorrowful
feature Miss Lily Dampier has benefited by her
spelK and weaves a wreath of interesting realism
around her flirtations, and Miss Merton is » he
Mrs. MacPherson, who seems to be the abode of
hose seven devils which, only in one instance,
i. ” e ever been expelled from any woman,
ha. * * *
-a final fall of the rag there, were
At th - CB iiß for the author, but he failed to
vooiferoub ough the piece was billed as being
appear, alth ->r»onal supervision.” Perhaps he
under his “p. *h. his “ then secretary.” Or pos-
was engaged wu 4 forth to listen to a German
sibly had wandert
band. “Who know. *# *
_ * . continues to attract
The Sydney Royal •, an d Barrett’s sensa-
good audienoeß with Jone. > the rain, Saturday
tional melodrama. Despite mtliarity with the
night showed a full house. Fa \ criticism in the
play is developing a spirit of bob <ucont’s Lezzard
region of the upper eirole. Mr. V. j n the piece,
has grown to be the best ebaracter 0 f villainy
Voice and features answer the Idea -y declines
suggested by the part. Hence the galle. vigor-
to sit passively by. R hisses virtuously a, « «ibi-
ously. As Mr. Vincent withdraws from th <»tum
lant assault he must carry away the convi
within his bosom that It would be a dan get
thing in actual life to trifle with the laws o> henou •
while any considerable number of the occupants
of that upper circle looked on.
* * *
The beautiful scenery still wins admire
tion. Mr. Bartlett does not improve the character
of Mad Willy. The creation opens with some ot
Walter Scott’s weird but Mr.
Bartlett carries the notion limply, and ends it
lamely. Joe Swirrup, the landlord of the
Crooked Billet, is another character that does not
fulfil a destiny. So many persons have been
pressed into the four acts (30 named in the bnl)
that completeness of delineation is :
Most of them, however, well conceived, and one
would like to go back after the close of the play
and ask did they marry, die, or emigrate.
** * *
The Sydney Alhambra still magnetises I
the public, who are drawn to its portals as is the
needle to the pole. There seems something w rong
about this simile, but it is as expressive as wen can
make it without hurting ourselves. The ear ier
part of the bill entertains the audience till 9
o’clock, after which the olio 9.°““«?ces. We
never oare much for first parts, either of showiaor
sausage rolls. There is often more pastry tIM-u
kitten in the first part of a sausage pie as there is
more music than mirth inthe e ® .PP. rti °P Pw
variety entertainment. Give us mirth all tn»
time. “Down by the deep, sad sea, Oloryor
the grave.” “We never speak” ;-these are to®
mournful. Let us tint all things with the roaeato;
hue of the rich red juice of the clu Btered ;
Life is too short to crowd much mourning into it»
harrow way. Let us laugh.
* * *
Matlock, who is growing more portly and ,
bopular each day, gave as Travel g
Wok to Dixie.” If we could shake asmucb music
out of our lunps as he can, we would travel
straightaway to Woolloomooloo and start a Salva-
ge pffirapmcally perfo™%feh g and
wave the lignt fantastic foot
dexterity. Teddy is faster with his feet than Foley
Is with his hands. A combination of the two would
he awkward in a village belle s father.
would the mashers travel wben the oLd man
the word “ko ’ ’ Miss Tulloch introduced an -nno-
vation In her song, “ The maid snd the magp ,
and when at the conclusion of eMhvene
tated the aforesaid bird, we were bornein fancy
back to the rook-bound banks of the Werr b »
where in the summer morning of our untainted
youth we shot the ff.au dy-piumagedpsroQuet a
listened to the magpie’s call. But, alasl those sun
decked days have fled-and so has the magpie.
Nous ve/rrons .
** * *
The Federal Minstrels, at the Sydney Aoa-
demy are making night hideous with their how .
We don’t mean this, but "
with their howl ” sounds splendid. One of the most
pleasurable incidents in the entertainment is Nic
Feuillade’s violin accompaniments. There is \
ohirrupy sweetness about these.
one very much of the music of a buck-saw wQe
your wife’s brother comes up on Saturday
to saw wood to last ever Sunday Mid Mo
day. Dunbar is still the Italian Kffett) and
Milanese Minstrel. We never saw a five piffero
before, and, after gazing on Dunbar, we felt dis-
posed to think lightly of the species. We know
that most Italian operatic artists come from the
spud-scented shades of Galway, but it is new to
know that Italian pifferos and Milanese minstrels
hail from the environs of Edinburgh.
* * *
Keenan and Moynham are a humorous duet,
a sweet thing in duplicate, though the expressive-
ness of the former is more marked than that of
any other burnt cork artist in the show. Sam is
mostly all expression, and when he spreads him-
self for a smile there is a degree of sublimity on
his frontispiece which rivals in its intensity the
shadowy depths of a dim and despondent volcano.
Warner, in his speci dties, takes his share of the
pie, and, as Willy has sense enough to play right
up to tue gallery boys, their applause is always
hearty and unstinted, and from their responses to
his efforts comes the liberal applause of the house.
This is our nice way of saying Warner is a
favourite.
* • *
Lance Lenton—who, by the way, will
shortly transfer his allegiance to the Federais—has
prepared a parody on " Called Back.” Its title is
"All Black.” and, after bypercritieally viewing
Conway’s dramatic story, we are compelled to
admit that Lenton's is the more humorous. The
cene opens in a Woolloomooloo hash-house, and
ends in Darlingburst Gaol, with the necessary
intervals of snow, sorrow, and suffering. The
hero of the play dies drunk and departs to eternity
carrying three-quarters of his secret with him. In
this particular he comes clear ahead of Conway’s
hero, who only carries half his secret into the land
of shadows. Those who have seen “ Called Back ”
will appreciate the burlesque, and those who have
not should do so. The snow-storm is most realis-
tic. The Herald circulation is inereasiog. Last
night a section of a leading article fell on Bent’s
head and Horace has not Men the same man since.
#m m #
At the new Oddfellows’ Hall, Harry Mon-
tague Is running a snowstorm in black, under the
title of the Vanity Fair Minstrels. We noticed in
the combination the faces of several old friends
and favourites, noticeably Misses Foliand and
Francis, who warbled their musical tributes to
“ Little bright eyes,” and “ Mother’s grave,” in
the sweetly pathetic style which usually obtains
in minstrel halls. How strange it seems that the
maternal relative comes in for all the “fat” at
the hands of ballad mongers. Why can’t they let
up on the female racket and give the old man a
chance? A skipping rope dance, by Miss Wilson,
was a peculiarly graceful performance, though,
to a certain extent, lacking in usefulness.
It is not absolutely necessary to skip and dance
at the same time. We had been at Foley’s
in the morning, and watched young Dooley per-
forming a similar feat. He is in training to fight
black Jackson. We don’t know who Miss Wilson
is training to fight. Flint's chair song went well,
but he left out the comic Dutch song in the second
part; he was evidently at variance with the musi-
cians, Couldn’t stand singiog the music of “ Lan-
nigan’s ball,” while the orchestral undertakers
were playlDg the “Dead March.” There is, of
course, the usual “ side-splitting farce,” which
runs with the smoothness of a tram-oar and the
hilarity of a funeral procession. Side-splitting
farces are usually mournful. Give us tragedy
when we want a real genuine laugh.
** * *
‘ Three Hats Slightly Mixed” promote
hilarity at the Sydney Opera House, and the piece
will constitute the bill for the remainder cf the
week when the opera season is to follow, opening
with “Girofle Girofla,” when the theatre should
become as popular as a High Church curate and as
crowded as a laud-sale lunch-tent.
** * *
Miss Genevieve Ward informed a reporter
of the Alta California (a San Francisco paper)
that she has played in “ Forget-me-not ” one thou-
sand and five times, that Mr. Williamson is the
most liberal manager she ever dealt witn, and that
he gives Mr. Gordon, his soentc artist, a salary of
5000doi. a year. Mr. Gordon certainly deserves it.
He has painted scenes—some for the Pantomime
in the Melbourne Royal, for instance—which were
real pictures, and deserved a better fate than to be
painted out again to make room for new ones. The
rapturous reporter, speaking of Miss Wasd’s per-
sonal appearance, says ’“ Miss Ward is a very
beautiful and graceful woman. Her face was
bright with animation, and a glance at the per-
fectly chiselled features was sufficient to tell why
Miss Ward ranks as one of the most beautiful
women who have graced the histrionic profession.”
Hump I Brown sherry, we suppose. If not the
gushing scribe must have interviewed Miss Ward
by means of a telephone, and have got his descrip-
tion of her charms from an ancient editionlof the
Theatrical Dictionary. We have seen Miss Ward
with the naked eye, and failed to notioe that she
was of an unearthly beauty. Her style, in fact, is
massive and early Norman, not graceful and
Grecian. But, perhaps, we would have been even
l more ridiculous than the alta California man
'< w& toad been in his place.
1_ \ * * % *
* Vthough the Limited Liability Company
t'V.r.'Seni in N.Z., perhaps the one most talked
a " present, is that run by the well-known
about l R g smythe. It consists of three
Christian, Mr. Armes Beaumont, and
S ttmiiv Christian. They appear everywhere
. B fnh and fashionable audience?, much to the
foi'VLr.” of the managers ot companies num-
And the “ muon-travelled ”
no agent in advance ; he does all the
SSKSff&Wtthe bill-posting.
0 0 S
T&e muGh-talked-of “ tiff ” between Irving
and Ellen Terry turns out to be all moonshine.
The fair Ellen ia Margueriteing to the great man s
MnnVvUtoDheies, and the two are the best of
t 0P They are likely to continue so. The
nlatonio affection between Miss Terry and her
Kffod” is ot an enduring kind, tor it is built upon
d basis of mutual benefit. No one is more keenly
than Irving to the professional advantages
Sf a Strong coalition. Immediately that he became
his own master at the Lyceum, he looked around
8 +ha hest leading lady procurable, and secured
EUenTerry. She, for her part realises that in no
-/her theatre could she attain the same distinction
same salary as at Irving’s. They say she
has oast B her e aesthetic eye upon a third husband.
Evan if she has her business arrangements are not
hkftv to be changed. Husbands one and two
didn’t have much voice in such matters.
** * *
He was the unfortunate manager of the
Dead Blossom Variety Co., and had opened a
season of one consecutive night at that grave of
theatrical oompanies-Bathurst, to a house con-
taining eighteen-pence in the back seats, nalf-a-
crown in the gallery, and dead-heads in the
stallsT Consequently, he was not in an over-
angelic mood as he filed into the “Royal,” and
asked—“ What have you got for your dinner feed
“day?” “Ross’ duck sir.” replied the waiter.
“ Ah.” said the bloated impressario, was it shot
on the wing, d’ye know ?” “ Yessir, I b lieve it
was.” returned the agreeable servant. “Tryin’
♦rTAM awav from this crimson second hand
church-yard of yours, wasn’t he?”" Yessir, that’s
likelv eaougb, I think, sir.” “Ah I ’ exclaimed the
sarcastic manager, “Good bird that-sagacious
fowl-rant avis in terns an’ donebew torget it.
I admire him for his wisdom, and I pity him for
his misfortune. You may introduce me to that
duck I’ll take the whole of him,and— Deo favente
-ru’hslp him along the road to Sydney. I
wouldn’t like to see even a rat depending on the
support of Bathurst.”
* * *
Our old friend Walter Reynolds, author
of “Vanity Fair,” an original romantic drama in
five acts and 10 tableaux, who nearly burned him.
seif, and quite “ busted ” up the show, some years
ago in Sydney, appears to have definitely
quitted the salvation Harmy in England, and re-
turned for good and all to the stage. For, behold,
Walter figures in the following ad. (two inches
. double column) in the New York Mirror:-" Mr.
Walter Reynolds’ tour of ‘A Mother's Sin in
Great Britain.” “A Mother’s Sin” is evidently
Walter’s Harmy address cast in a dramatic form,
and sure to be abounding in incident. Prom what
we can gather, Walter Reynolds' opinion of the
“army” must be almost identical with that so
frequently and poetically expressed of them by a
certain Sydney “captain.” “It's no good, old
pard,” he’ll say. “ I’ve sold the ‘ Medical Wonder
for three years, and been a * Lightning Calculator’
for 10, but struggle all you will with ’em, you
can't as much as best ’em out of a Sunday’s din-
ner. If it hadn’t have been for taking the other
captains down at poker on pay day, why, blame
me, if I don’t believe I’d have been a captain
still.”
ijf
“Nadjezda” is the title of a new sensa-
tional drama, written by Maurice Barrymore, and
produced at the London Haymarket early in
January last. Among other curious and interest-
ing obaracters there is an English aristocrat of a
type well known on the stage, who falls in with a
loud American female, who is supposed to re-
present a transatlantic fashionable lady. The
wooing that goes on between these two is rather ‘
remarkable judging by the following passage
“Are your intentions honourable or dishonour-
able ?” asks the lady. The Englishman parries this
very natural query with another —“ Am Ito
understand, mauam, that I have the choice ?” And
yet the piece is an utter failure. Bring it along
here, Maurice.”
** * *
Louise Pomeroy is starring through the
States. She appears still married to Arthur
Elliott, but what seems droll about the arrange-
ment is this-instead of Louise being an occa-
sional recluse, Arthur is! For again we spot the
mystic par. containing the following weird an-
nouncement Next Monday night Arthur
Elliott, Miss Pomeroy’s husband, will join her as
leading support.”
#* * *
At Manilla, a vicious oolt whieh Chiarini,
the circus man, was trying to tame, bit a large
piece out of that portion of the Signor’s anatomy
whence it could best be spared—his cheek.
** * *
Tahiti is a magnificent place for dramatic
companies to visit. Washington Norton writes us
that he has recently made this discovery. When
ho visited the island he was only allowed to give
three entertainments—not enough to pay his ex.s
in going there, before the Director of the Interior
prevented further performances, apparently
for fear that the company would take away from
the community all the coin in circulation. Wash.
Norton has been occupied for 35 hours a day ever
since invoking blessings on the head of “M. le
Dlrecteur de l’lnterieur.”
•* * •
It is stated on what should be reliable
authority that Miss Ellen Terry threw up her part
of Olivia in the “ Vicar of Wakefield," in which
Irving was playing in London, not on account of
Miss Linden’s burlesque of the part at another
theatre, but on account of severe indisposition.
Further, it is alleged that Miss Terry and Miss
Linden are bosom friends, and have always been
tbat way. Can it be then—no, of course, not—
they would never think of manufacturing a yarn
like that just for the purpose of getting a free ad.
»# • *
Joseph Maas, the well-known English
tenor, died a few weeks back. Mr. Maas first
came prominently before the public as Babil, in
the original production of “ Babil and Bijon,” at
Covent Garden theatre. He was a capable actor,
and as a singer ranked second only to Edward
Lloyd among modern English tenors. We don t
include Sims Reeves uniter that category. The
evergreen Sims was warbliDg in opera before
Maas saw the light.
The Melbourne correspondent of a Vic-
torian paper says that the body of a certain mili-
tary officer who recently died out here was taken
to England “ packed in an old piano-case as general
cargo." Ii that be so, what was it they ** planted ’
in the general cemetery ? It was bad enough to
ship him away as “general cargo,” but—in a piano
easel This is surely a gross interference with the
divine prerogative, and if the souls of mortals go
into purgatory there is no precedent for the
corpse being shot into a piano-case, out of which
has perhaps but recently escaped the instrument
for more earthly torture than purgatory ever
afforded the doomed souls of the various late
lamented who have gone there.
The system is strengthened and the nerves toned
by the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The wonderful cordial, Wolfe's' Schnapps, will
drive away all physical ailments.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry-
-371 a Pltt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BE.ALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
The “ itapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole importers
BEALE AMD COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
OBIENTAL BOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS OF
class
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIES.
Send
for the soli
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 4 J-
Seal .. 47-
Bracelet. 8/-
„ 107-
„ 13/-
„ 14/-
„ 167-
Bov. Purse 47-
Match Box 47-
Scarf Pin.. 3/-
„... 3/6
„ 37-
„ 4/-
„ „.. 67-
Albert ... 67-
Charm .. 47-
Studs, f. set 3/-
~ 4/-
„ 6/-
„ 67-
Keeper ... 3/6
Gem Ring 47-
Buckle „ 2/6
Diamond „ 67-
Brooch Set 5/-
„ 7/6
„ 107-
.. 15/-
Croes, 4/, 5/, 6/-
Loefcet, Ladies ... 6/-
„ ■ ..IQ7-
..18/-
... 3/-
.. 4/-
... 5/-
.. 15/-
3O-
/
Necklet .. ..57-
Watch (Ladies’).. 30/-
„ (Gent’s) .. 30/-
Brooob, frm 1/6 to 107-
gold Gem Ring ... 8/6
Keeper „ .. 7/6
Wedding „ .. 7/6
Waltham
Watch £8 8/-
„ „ 9 9/-
.. ~ 10 0/-
„ It 117-
Bangle
F.arrings
91
Albert
ITp to £5O.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
5 10/-
6 0 /-
6 6/-
i« »» *» *i 8 0/-
Send fcr the Silver Waltham Watch 2 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS TaiS CHANGE.
A handsome Oiiental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 474 George-street, opposite
the Markets.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.


BRIEF MENTION.
From Charters Towers Herald:— “Wanted
an Alderman to batch eleven chickens. Apply,
Renwick Rampant, or the Doctor's Dignity.
“And,” said Dr. Renwick, “do you think that men like Mr. Garvan, that men like Mr. Fletoher, that min like Mr. Suttor—and men like myself—could be dictated to by a man
like Mr. Dibbs. Do you think we should be influenced by him? No, we should it fluenca him.”— Dr. Renwick, M.L.A., at Redfern.
* Addlebead,’ Fool’s Paradise, Esplanade, Charters
Towers.
The captain of a Melbourne suburban
horde of holy howlers lately announced la the
local War Guv “an upside-down meeting,” We
fofrain from comment.
“Yes, sir,” said a well-known Sydney
“ trades and labour ” publican, “ I believe in every
man working bis eight hours a day—no more.
“Uni” observed the listener, “and your barmen
work from 0 in the morning till 11 at night.’
Let’ssee, that’s exictly seven hours and half, isn’t
it?
From the Riverine Herald:— “On the 12th
inst, at Blank, near Muma, the dearly beloved
wife of Mr. Robert William Blank, aged 4!J acres,
late of Koyuga, Victoria.”
Dean Russell, preaching at Adelaide on
the Commercial Bank of 8. A. collapse, said: "We
stand to-day In the presence of a great public
sorrow.” How nice I If he had said, “We stand
in th 3 presence of about the biggest swindle ever
worked under cover of holiness,” he would have
been nearer the truth.
From the Mudgee (N.S.W.) Post : “Alder ,
man Davidson, although having the most severe,
provocation,jkept his sword unsheathed and in its
scabbard, and did not reply.”
From the North China Mail:t-“ Chinese
Joke: A. barber, shaving a customer’s head
drew blood, and put one of his fingers on It’
Again he made a cut and put down another finger"
and so on till he had no more fingers free. “ Ah/’
said he, as be paused in his work, 11 a barber s i| a
difficult trade: we ought to have a thousand
fingers.”
Greece, according to the B.M. Her *hd,
“thought of issuing letters of marque against
Turkey.” Probably this move was anticipate**


. n it w as said that if she went to war there
ffould he nothing left of her but a Greece marque
goon* .
rust before the viotorian general elec-
, ,„ n , the Pleasant Creek News, the organ of John
wnnds’ electorate, in speaking of the inventor of
atent-break and tar-brush, electrified its patrons
ffith its announcement that “ Woods had borne
” hundred bottles.” It was written
chn™ e ! ln the copy, but the dry comp, saw a
cnance to sneak in his little joke.
unworldly a man is our friend the
borrnUL from the Wide Bay News (Mary-
tlar 9 ) : ~ ' Wanted, apartments for the Bap-
6r » uud his tittle baby— furnished or un-
careTa—Apply,statfng terms, Rev. W. Bonser,
10 A *Warry, Queen-street.”
More saorilege. When the Salvation Army
was marching down the streets of a suburb, some
misoreant threw a billet of wood from behind a
fence and burst the big drum. Since then the
Harmy has added another couplet to its marching
hymn. This is the oouplet—
You’ll never git to kingdom come
If you bust up the big drum I
The Riverine Evening Stab, remarking
the ease of a man named Brooks, who fell from a
building 30ft. high to the ground, observes it is
little short of a miracle that he “ was not killed on
the stop*” Of course, if anything in the enter-
tainment had terminated his oareer it would have
been the “stop.” The fall would not hurt him.
Purple-nosed elector to candidate : “ Are
you in favour of allowin’ a workin’ man to get
his dinner-beer on Sunday ? ” Candidate: “No, I
am not; a working-man can get in his dinner-beer
on Saturday night.” Purple-nosed Elector: “A
lot you know about it; why, if he got it in on
Saturday night, he’d sit up all night to drink it.”
Deafening applause from the audience.
As one of Mr. J. H. Want’s supporters was
accompanying that gentleman to the railway
station prior to his departure from Gundagai
(N.B.WJ a pony in his ream dropped
Couldn't stand Want, probably. Ominous for J
H. Is it Indicative of hiß Ministerial death ?
When that cream-colomred pony, intelligent hack.
Kicked, struggled an instant, fell dead on the
track,*) ... ’ . _
■Ywas. an omen, a spectre, presentiment gaunt.
That Death closely follows the footsteps of Want.
A notioe in the Govbrnmbnt Gazettb,
Singapore, on 18th of January last, informs every
clerk or subordinate officer that every public ser-
V ant, who, on the 31st December, 1880, has any un-
satisfied judgment debt, will be dealt with as if he
had been arrested for debt or adjudicated a bank-
rupt. How, we may ask, would such a notice as
that look in the NSW. Government Gazette?
why, though, is it only clerks and subordinates
who are to be hung up next Christmas ? Do heads
of departments over Singapore way never have
any unsatisfied judgment debts 1
Somewhere in Australia there is a “ Catho-
lic Young Men’s Society.” Last week one of the
youthful Catholics sent round cards to all the girls
of hia acquaintance, inviting them to attend his
lecture on “Love, Courtship. and Marriage.” Hie
spectacle of a youth, not out of ms teens, drivel-
Modurn Provurbs.
(BY OUR OWN BO[?]H BILLINGS
Never ,ledge the valley of enylhing by its sighs, the Sudan gote kostmore than Jumbo the elefant. |
A foul iu the pot is wurth ten on the iivur.
Uul.bs ure rranma lsez an at o ity don’t iet-oh her to
euk egs, she mire liv to an ur,fired.
Don’t kro two airly, a prematoor krj o't giA-s a tbeef'to the
loul-hous.
Wun bottel ov whiskee will droun more
foks than a hole pond fool or water
Don’t klime treez unles you kan aford to lie up with a broken nek.
We’d suner meet axled dog in the woulds then a liv liun eny day.


ling on about the mysteries of wooing was too
much for the girls. “ Him make love,” said a
syren in a brown hat, “he ought to be making
mud pies.”
It is always pleasant to chronicle acts of
kindness to dumb animals. An English grazier
was so attached to a certain bullock which had
been in bis family for many years, that when he
finally sold it to a butcher he begged the man in
blue to deal gently with the animal, “as it had
been a good old servant.” So old was this servant,
in fact, that the butcher who bought it for 30s.
was ultimately summoned for selling superan-
nuated beef.
PROGRESS.
Fell on his head I
Same o.!d story
Jockey dead.
And gone to glory I
Lots of boy s ’twill
Take one day.
To make a Sydney
Holiday 1
Father Campion, of Belfast (Vic.), went
“ nap ” on the wrong ’un at the recent election.
The rival candidates were Messrs. J. J. Madden
and Joseph Jones, and Father C. told his flockthat
supporters of the former were “standing on rot-
ten planks with hell yawning beneath them.” The
contest, in fact, rested between Hell and Jones,
and it is a melancholy reflection for the hoD.
Joseph (he was once in a Ministry) tnat the men
of Belfast threw him over for Hell by a large
majority.
The Inspector-General of Police in Bris-
bane has posted detectives opposite certain houses
of ill-repute in that town with the view of taking
the names of all visitors to toe haunts. Now, that
expedient is decidedly clumsy. Cannot, some per-
tinacious reporter—such a one as Abbott would'
like to shoot—go around and find out the prices
unfortunates pay for the dens, and give us a list of
ttie names of the sleek landlords who knowingly
fatten on toe extra rents obtained from aban-
Aonnies ?
A South Australian paper is mildly ram-
pant because an exceedingly holy man, who
neard a “ vessel of wrat 1 ” talking of a new silver
discovery he had made, went out and got in his
pegs abou' an hour ahead of the dtaild of sin. We
don’t see anything to inaignate about in all this.
The prophecy is that the righteous shall possess
the earth, and how are they to possess if they don't
put iu the 6x4 sticks ? Trust in God and post your
notices, i 3 the motto of the children of light on a
silver field
There has been a lot of discussion at vari-
ous times as to the exact interpretation which
should be placed uoon the word “gentleman.”
Mrs. Byrne has settled the point for ever. It ap-
pear* two larrikins stoJe an accomeon from her
and were caught in the act When she was asked
in Court for some particulars of how she captured
them, she said, “They behaved like perfect gentle-
men, your worship, and did not attempt to run
away.” The “perfeot gentlemen” got a “three
stretch ” each immediately.
We print this because the obliging man
who sends it has the audacity to say it is new and
true:—"At a meeting of the Ballarat (Vio.) City
Council, the question of beautifying Lake Wen-
douree was bef ore the sittings. After some sug-
gestions on the part of different members, one of
the councillors, a gentleman who had just returned
from Europe, said: 4 Why not procure a gondola ?
‘By the powers, yes!’ exclaimed a Grecian mem-
ber well known In the calico trade; ‘but why not
have a pair, so they can breed ?’ Begorral”
Some of the sentences passed by the legal
meteors who dispense blind and deaf justice from
the southern benohes don’t seem to dovetail.
Last week two men—one for stealing a hat worth
half a guinea and the other for annexing a police-
man’s waddy when the zealous guardian was con-
varsin’ wid a cook- got three days’ each. Next
morning a small boy of rueful aspeot, was awarded,
three days for stealing an eighteen penny pigeon.
The youth now knows that It is foolish to prig a
pigeon—that it is more reasonable to serve 72
hours for a turkey.
Hamilton (Vic.) is discovered to be the
Australian Sanatorium. The Hamilton Spectator
gives the reason;—“ We have authority for stating
that eases of consumption . . receive the
greatest benefit, and, indeed, get quite cured by a
residence here . . Perhaps the easiest ...
explanation is that the minute germ of Bacillus,
which is always present in the affected lungs, can-
not exist in this district.” Fancy people living
where even Bacilli starve I We don’t want to be
told in the next sentence that the Hamilton rate-
payers are all Bcetch.
Politeness seems to be rapidly establishing:
as a feature in the conduct of Sydney suburban
meetings. At one meeting a councillor is
threatened to be re-christened by having a glass
of water thrown over at another one is
charged in plain English with being of the same
persuasion as Ananias of glorious memory, while
at a recent meeting of the Leichhardt Council, an
alderman likened another to a “ dunghill,” after
which “ smart rejoinder ” says an evening paper,
“the matter was allowed to drop.” And thus
slowly, but surely, does our civilisation progress.
The tip-cat club down our lane is con-
siderably “ narked ” over receiving no answer to
its request that Lord Carington be patron of the
institution. The committee can't understand it, as
it was expressly stated in the letter that no sub-
scription to the funds was expected or desired,
since the very great strain upon his lordship’s
purse by charities, &0., had been such as to pre-
clude the noble lord further endowing with uts
wealth institutions that were not of a purely
benevolent character “First Tip for life,” con-
cluded the letter, “and you start from Bauman's
new window.” And wet no reply I
A telegram to the Sydney dailies on the
12th announced that a saloon passenger named
Margaret Stephenson, while proceeding by the
steamer Glanworth from Charters Towers to Mel-
bourne, threw herselfloverboard and was drowned
seven miles west of Breaksea spit. James Coutts.
a seaman, jumped overboard to her assistance but
she never' rose again. The gallant tar was pre-
sented with £l4 by tbe passengers for his conduct.
He has, according to the telegram. “ saved life on
two occasions in a similar manner.” Well.it the
two previous ones were saved in a similar manner
to this it seems to us probable their perfect resus-
citation will not be accomplished till the sobbing
sea gives up its silent dead.
They ran a man out of the Melbourne
Equity Court the other day because he wanted to
smoke. Jt was between acts, so to speak, counsel
were behind with the next case, and there was
absolutely nothing doiDg. The man considered
this a favourable moment for bringing a long felt
want under Ju ge Moiesworth’s notice so he pro
duced half a cigar, and e quired, “ My lord, cav I
light uo? ’ F v that molest, request he was Igno-
mi sinutd b chucked.’’ So matter, tne incident
clearly shows that men are beginning to rebel
against antiquated restrictions on their harmless
little pleasures. The time may come when every
church wdl have to be provided with ’smoking
pews, and when it does—when it does-- dear
friends, the gospel will commence to bum in real
earnest.
Burglary has attained the rark of a
science A Melbourne police sergeant stated in
court the other dav that btirvlars carry a lantern
with red, green, and white lights. This lantern is
held by one confederate whim the others are
4 cracking the crib.” It is used in exactly the
same way as lanterns on the railways. If the con-
federate turns on the white light everything is
right; if the green, caution is to be exercised; if
the red 4 ' stand not on the order of your going
but run like bl»z 8 ” is the meaning conveyed.
Anybody who wishes can now turn burglar. We
have had serious thoughts of doing so ourselves
before now, bqt we were a 1 ways restrained hy the
fe*r that we might some Dight wake a policeman
too suddenly, and perhaps render him a mental
cripple for life.
When Sir Alfred Stephen dies h© will go
to Singapore, where they have just made the
whipping of women illegal. The law that has
been in operation there these many years back
■I
empowered a" judge to order the “ oat ” to be laid
on to the bare backs of females as well as of
males for various offences. The dlsoussion on the
repeal of the measure in the Council-chamber was
sometimes warm. Votes were equally divided at
second reading, and the third reading was carried
by a majority of two only. Mr. Shelford
characterised the measure as “ a silly, sentimental,
and ridiculous Bill;” while Mr. Addis expressed
the opinion that discretionary power should be
left with the justices,” as there might be women
in the gaol at sometime or another who as fully
deserved whipping as some men.”
A Northern constable was oharged with
stealing two files and four chisels the other day.
The magistrates exnressed a mild surprise at the
character of the theft. Pshaw I There is nothing
to be surprised at in it. That constable evidently
had an eye to eventualities. It he-found catching
thieves did not pay his, plan was clearly to turn
thief himself, so with that view he was beginning
to quietly accumulate a stock of tools in trade.
The report aays that he was a young constable.
The information was unnecessary. No old con-
stable would commit such a theft—and be caught!
There is a way known to some in the force of
combining both professions. If it were not for
this where would the terraces of houses come
from which we hear so much about ? [Why from
thrift and teetotalism, of course. We allow no
scandal about the force in this paper,— Ed. B.]
He was a young, struggling practitioner,
aud took almost any case that was brought to him.
So it came to pass that ho had to attend to a
married ceuple who suffered from the painful,
though not incurable, complaint commonly called
“jumps.” Looking in on his rounds he found
them both prostrated with a severe attack, and
bending kindly over the husband he asked him
how he felt. “ Ah, I’m coming round a hit,”
gurgled the sufferer; “ but, bust me, «be got’em
real bad, aud serve her darned well rightl” At
this moment the female patient commenced to
gather three-cornered insects from off the leech’s
nose and aimed an ineffect al blow at the kanga-
roo that was sitting oa her ciest “Why do you
say it serves her right ? ” asked the doctor, gently
withdrawing his propose s and wping it on the
bedclothes “ B e luae she ain't got no right to
have ’em the same time I have ’em I ”
Joseph Palmer Rabbibt’s threat to shoot a
reporter has got out as far as Adelong, and the
editor of the iocal Argus awakes and pertinently
asks: “ Where are we ? Can we be under the iron
hand of the Russian Czar, or the censorship of the
French President ? Surely we are only dreaming
that we are liviog in free, sunny N.S.W.” He then
becomes retrospective, goes down to the days of
his childhood, and asks if the old institution that
was then his terror i 3 to be re-established. “ That
oppressive, infamous c->urt known as the Star
Chamber,” he says “ was abolished, we believe, in
1641; is it possible that the member for Gunnedah
would like to see a similar institution re-estab-
lished within the walls of Parliament ?” The way
the Argus writes makes us reflect that, advantage-
ous to the people as the abolition of the Star
Chamber was to many ©f them, the abolition of
th'» three-star chamber would be much more so.
“ Physical Wreck! ” exclaims a humorist,
“ You can hardly take the ruby colour out of your
nose in the way you suggest. The man who
charged you 25 dollars for bleaching your nose
and then went away, leaving your inflamed pro-
boscis inserted in a large plaster-cast, was no
gentleman, and I would ce willing to have you
tell him so on your own responsibility. 1 oannot
hold out any glitteringlpromises to you, P. Wreck,
as regards the ultimate fading of your nose. It
may fade, but you will, no doubt, fads with it. It
will not grow pale in time for you to marry again.
My advice, for which I charge nothing, simply
appropriating the "tares virgin stamps you en-
closed, is to so live that when you come to die you
will not be ashamed to let St Peter smell your
breath Farewell, Physical Wreck. Let your nose
be a lighthouse to the growing youth of our land.
Do not put it under a bushel, but let it be trimmed
and burning. Do not hide it behind the thick
glass bottom of a beer mug, but keep it out in
the op@» air, where the school phildren can look
with & khudder on the hand painted holocaust
which God gave you to smell with.”
TENNYSON.
Now don’t imagine, gentle reader, with
the light blue eyes and the golden hair, with lips
redolent of violets whose carmine tint is natural,
not red lead, whose pearly teeth are Nature’s own,
whose smile is as the pleasant sunshine, and whose
laughter as the rippling cascade—do not imagine
that we are about to inflict on you a biography of
the laureate. No such thing, dear. Nor you,
stern and ’aughty male, with the eve of fire and
the hand of might, do not look for a line concern-
ing Baron Tennyson. Our Tennyson is nearer
home—a quiet spot on the banks of the Parram tta
River, whither in company with an unlimited
supply of oysters and stout and some other people,
we went by invitation of the employees of Messrs,
bummerfleld and Company, the well-known Pitt-
street tailors and clothiers, to enjoy ah outing on
the occasion ot a complimentary picnic which was
being tendered to Mr. Fredrie Jones, the head of
the vast business. On the run dawn to Tennyson,
we were introduced to one or two social gentle-
men, and subsequently introduced ourselves to a
man who was employed opening oysters. Ente*-
ing into discussion with him upon the uncertainty
of earthly tnioge, we kept bis attention fixed on
the for ward part of the boat while ever ino anon
we snatched a juicy oyster which he bad just
De<lea and promptly put it iu a place of safety
A. r, am per of p rter was standing invitingly open
We removed a bottle, and in the sylvan soli-
tude of the smoke stack transferred its con-
tents to the lower hold-our hold. Then bor-
rowing a cigar and a match from Mr. Collins,
the latest imported exponent of Freethougbt,
we strode to the upper deck, and whispered in the
ear of the captain of the Telephone, “ Porter and
” ‘ Eh I what d' y'say?” he gasped, as the
wheel spun round like the traveller of a velooi-
pede, “Port her, what’s up?’’ “What are you
twisting that little wheel about for?” we asked.
He fixed his eye on us with a long comprehensive
stare; then slowly worked the wheel straight
again. Still eyeing us as if we were some kind of
new curiosity, he observed, emphatically, “ Well,
I m; 1 say, mister, didn’t you say • Port—her?’ ’’
“Certainly; and I was about to observe, when you
commenced monkeying with that little wheel,
that porter and oysters are not bad things at sea.”
“ Oh! you was, was you, just going to make that
startling and original observation, eh? Well, now,
I know that, and passengers are requested not to
talk to the man at the wheel. That Beat is just
about your fi.. Work y ur originaliry off on
someoue else, it* to - much forme.’ And so the
haughty sai.or dismissed us But what matter,
beneath and us was the sea, the sea, the
flowing sea, on either side were the tree fri ged
banks of tne historical Parramatta, and ahead oi
us was— luueb. Thinking upor. all these beauties
of nature we mu el. Thus. We were now at a
clothier’s holiday. These smart young men and
smiling maidens were ail employed in dressing
their fellow creatures, providing them with the
outward garb of civilisation And yet, we thought,
how muen happier was man iu an earner state
ot ignorance wueo clothing was unknown and
tailors unnecessary. How much more comfort-
able, too, no trousers baggy at the knees, no coat
shiny at the seams and shoulders, no— in fact, no-
thing Use that We said “ how much ?” aad the
answer came promptly, “ D..n t know,” aud we
don’t Perhaps more, perhaps less. But we still
mused as we ploughed the giant billows of the
Utaving Parramatta, and then it dawned on us
tnat the tai or a craft was the ol sest uu<er the
sun the first trade ever practised, and taught, too,
ny the same Being who placed that unlortuaate
couple on the small selection at the junction of
the Euphrates and Igris. Then the spirit of
p i sy glided from below, end placed in our nands
a scrou. There was a sudden darkness, a convul-
sive throb, volumes of smoke were being emitted
from the funnel, the whistle shrieked, and all was
still. We were waiting for the man to open the
bridge. Once more the screw revolved, the boat
aped on, and we opened the soroll, half an enve*
lope, and read
Adam and Eve by Nature bleat
Knew Dot In clothed they should be drest, I
Till God, of leaves, made garments fine,
The Urst of tatlors-the Divine.
No masher’s suit, no crinolette,
Mad m!8-8haped Nature's form as yet;
No tight-drawn waist, no chimney hat
For head had yet formed habitat.
Oh, God-drest pair, how blest to be
Clothed but in leaves from flower and tree.
No cloth to weave for clothing rare,
No tailors’ bills to cross you there.
And as we read the boat sped onward, our
musings being suddenly interrupted by the run-
ning out of the gang-plank, and we stepped
aibore. We were at the picnic. Proceeding to
the pavilion we satisfied ourselves that it was
there still, and returning to the beach watched the
aquatic pastimes of the youth with a delighted
eye. The steamer had scarcely moored along-
side the wharf ere the sports of the day com-
menced with the palr-oared racing. The crews
started in divisions of three or four each and
ploughed the hiliows with a determinations worthy
of a champion’s efforts. The manner of proceed-
ing was most interesting to those who, like our-
selves, have never seen, a boat-race. It diffeis
very much from a horse-race, in that the puller
has his back to the object poinc and approaches it
without seeing where he is going. In the case of
a pair of oarsmen pulling, a small boy sits in the I
hind part of the boat and directs its motions with '
a pair of reins. The boy has an excellent oppor-
tunity for studying the beauties of the harbour,
as it is at his sweet will the boat must go, and on i
Thursday, in more than one case, the coxswain j
took the oarsmen by a very circuitous route from
post to finish. After several heats had been pulled
off with no less nor more than the usual amount
of fauit-flnding inseparable from athletic competi-
tions the gong sounded and a general dart was made
for the pavilion. We did not run, but our move-
ments were marked by considerable activity, as
we made our way to the pavilion, when on the
snow-white cloth was spread the dishes and dain-
ties necessary and requisite to feed 300 hundred
tailors, clothiers, and their friends. Espying a
vacant seat in closs proximity to a dissected hen,
we sat and argued the point with the deceased
bird. She, or it, was speedily imbued with our
opinions, and agreed finally with us in every par-
ticular. The guest of the day busied himself in
waiting upon nis employes, who, in turn, estab-
lished themselves as waiters upon each other/ and
thus it fell out that we did not drink the toasts
subsequently proposed In the insipid fluid of whioh
tea is made. No, gentlemen, gold-top, Gnateau la
Rose, and Guinness, waited at our elbow, and
each toast was faithfully and loyally absorbed by
us in one or other of the divine nectars above
more particularly specified. Various toasts were
proposed, all direotly associated with the business
of the day. “The Guest” (Mr. F. Jones) was
toasted, with “ The Firm, ’ and Mr. H. W. Chap-
man, in a forcible and complimentary speech,
alluded to the growth of the business of
Summerfleld and Co. as an almost marvellous
development. The speaker very sensibly pointed
out that trousers and other garments were a
necessity under the existing laws, and while
these 1 *ws remained in force people must be sup-
plied with dry goods. Mr. Jones, on assuming the
management of the business of Summerfleld and
Co., at once grasped this fact, and set himself to
work to make the business known throughout the
colonies. As a business man, he was fully aware
of the necessity for advertising, and striking out a
new line, he shortly placed Summerfidid a songs in
the front rank of readable notices of articles for
sale. Some of these poems were metrical and
melodious, and, while settiog forth the fact that
Summerfield’s three-guinea suits were all wool a
perfect fit and thoroughly shrunk, still educated
the colonial reader in the principles of poetioal
musings What could be more practical and yet
poetioal than this
“ Dearest love, do you remember
When you heard the wish revealed ?
Yes, we’ll marry in September,
Buy your pants of Summerfleld.”
In this, as the audience would perceive, there was
a blending of faot and fancy of sentiment and
suitability which could not fall to attraot the
attention of all readers. To the firm, which was
practically embodied in the person of Mr. Jones,
much eredit was due for the rapid advance into
favour whioh their business had made, and he
trusted that poetry and pants would long be Inti-
mately associated. After some highly eulogistic
remarks, Mr. Chapman sat down on his hat, which
we had just placed on the seat, to prevent anyone
taking his place while he was speaking. In his
excitement to get up again, he spilt our glass of
claret, snd we drank success to Summerfleld*B
suits in au empty glass. Mr. Fredric Jones, in
responding for the firm, spoke in an exceediogly
practioal manner. After complimenting the vari
ous employees, he expressed the pride he felt in
being present that day to receive at their hands
this pleasant token of esteem. “ But ladies and
gentlemen,” said Mr. Jones (and the words should
be seared into the heart of every young man),
" some people have said I have been * lucky,’ that
it is good luck for me to own the business now in
which, five vears ago, I was, as eaoh of you, an
employee Gentleman, there is no such thing as
luck; there is nothing which may influence
a man’s career except that which he carries ia his
own breast. Diligence, energy, the will and power
to make the most of every ohaaoe, these, gentle-
men, are the component parts of luck, and without
taem it is little use expecting the co-operation of
Fortune in building up a man’s prosperity If you
each and every one of you but apply yourselves
to work, be frugal and industrious, saving care-
fully, and investing judiciously, you may, in
course of time stauci in a position similar to my
own.” The hearty appi use and vigorous drink-
iig of champagne which followed proved the
sentiments of the speaker found an echo in the
breasts of his auoitory. There were various
toas'S proposed, “ The Employees,” “ The Branch
Managers” (at Dubbo, Liihgew, Newcastle, and
Wagga, where sub-establishments are being con-
ducted), “The Visitors,” and “The Ladies.” At
the conclusion of the speech-making the band
played some animating music, and in a few
seconds the flying feet of the holiday makers were
chasing the giddy banana peel across the room.
Other sports were Indulged in, as racing, rowing,
jumping, &c. A pair-oared race for girls attracted
four crews, and proved the most interesting item
of the day. On getting the word go they sped off
in an energetic though inartistic manner. The
stroke and bow oars were not labouring in unison,
and the various coxswains did not appear alto-
gether in accord with the crews, the consequence
was that the flag-boat had to chase the competi-
tors from point to point ere the issue of the match
could be determined. Foot racing, kiss-in-the-
ring, and other osculaton exercises were indulged
in tul the waning sun fa ed into the silent west,
aod hade far< .we Ito the wearying world. Then
the vfbistle sounded, the last s ruggli g couple
wrs g-> aboard, the gang-planks run ia, sad the
steamer s head pointed tor the floating jetty. And
when, at ei aa«y of unadulterated et/j yment, we
once more trod the wharf, and gszed upon the
gleaming lights of Sydney. We wished life could
b oae long picnic spent in the company of such
genial enter-tamers as Summerfleld and Company *
A BABY SWALLOWED HALF-A-
SOVKRiSIGN
Run lor the Doctor, quf6a. “Help 1 help! dot
baby has shallowed halt-a-sovereign, ’’ exclaimed
Mrs Schaumburg. “ Mein Gott, you so much fuss,
as If it was a sovereign. Be calm, Repeoca, I
thought It was de last bottle of the st. Louis
Lager Beer, ” replied Moses.
There is but one genuine medical beverage
under the name of Schnapps, and that is Wolfe’S
hCHNAPPS.
The greatest nourishing tonic,
etrengthener, and curative on earth. Hop Bitters
made only by Americau Co. See
» Invalids who require stimulants can safely
rely upon Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be certain they
get Wolfe’s.
Ladles in Health.
ladies not in health.
LADIES EVERYWHERE, ONE AND \tt
Head This.
Dr. Scott'; Electric Const.
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC CORSET is a g en tl«
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of electricity the functions of th
nervous organisation. Worn by the
Royal Families of Europe, by the elite of Ameri
can and Continental Booiety, they are daily en '
dorsed py Over one million ladies, and as they d '
tiot exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
masers, without the electricity or therapeutie
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them ■>
trial ? a
If you have any pain, ache, or il-feeiing from
any cause, if you seem “pretty well,’’ yet iaet
energy, and do not “feel up to the mark;-’ if von
suffer from disease, we bag you to at once/trv
those remarkable curatives. They cannot, and do
not. injure like medicine. Always doing good
never harm. There is no shock or sensation felt
in wearing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts qificklv 6
generally the first week, more frequently tne f£t
day, and often during tne first hour they are worn
their wonderful curative powers are felt rn
The mind becomes active, the nervous and sluo
gish circulation are stimulated, and all the old"
time health and good feeling come back Thor
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating. beaith-givlDg current to th!
whoie system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which E'eotrieity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practis.
th^. 8at ° e ’ a 8 y°ur own physician wi:l inform you
u The Corsets do not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steS
magnetods in place of the oroiaary corset steels
They are all equally charged, ditto ent only in'
quality and design. They are elegant in shape and
finish, made after the best French pattern and
warranted satisfactory in every respeot. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no others
The above applies equally to the Electric Balt
for gents.
NEW STOCKS ARRIVED.
The prices are as fo’iows:—
No. 1 Corset
No. 2 Corset
No. ?5 Corset
No. 5 Corset
Eleotrie Belts
s. d.
(i 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
15 0
We how make all these goods In dove and white
only. They are sent out in a handsome box, ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Eteotro-Magnetic Influence can be tested. Ii
you cannot get them In your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
Bout,Jr Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover post-
age.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of Corset
usually worn; or, where the size is not known,
take a measurement of the waist over the linen,
This oan be done with a piece of eommon string,
which send with your order.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.
54MARGARET-STREET,
SYDNEY.
P-2*’ Box No. 221. They can be made In Cheques
Drafts, P.O. Orders. Currency, or Btamps. Chequei
should be crossed Union Bant of Australia.
CHAMPION.
THE
EX-CHAMPION,
AND
AMATEUR CHAMPION
TESTIFY.
William Beach.
William Beach,
William Beach.
Royal Hotel,
Ryde, November 24,1885.
The Chas. A. Vogler Co.,
Baltimore
Gentlemen,—l am pleased to inform you that
have fouud t*T. JaCOBS OIL of great service
me in training, having used it very successful
tor the relief and cure of stiffoese, cramps, ai
muscular pains To athletes in trainiog l earnest
recommend it. As a household remedy l may si
that Mrs. Beaoh generally keeps a bottle by her
our house, in Dapto.aoa it is the first thing usi
when any of the family meet with any of the a
oidents falls, or bruises that the little folks so fr
quently incur.
Yours, faithfully,
WILLIAM BEACH,
Champion Oarsman ofjhe World.
Edward Hanlan.
Edward Hanlan.
Edward Hanlan.
Petty’s Hotel,
Sydney, N.3.W.
Gentlemen, —I am pleased to inform you tha
lave used ST. JACOBS OTL win, ihn hon
j/ionoou tj imurm you liw
have used 81’. JACOBS OIL with the most ben
oial results. For muscular pains in the arms i
limbs 1 have found it a reliable remedy, and fr
fiersonal experience have pleasure ia reoomme:
ng it.
Yours faithfully,
EDWARD HANLAIS
The Champion Amateur.
W. G. Brett,
W. G. Brett,
W. G. Brett,
M.R.C., Gladesville,
„ ~ ' Parramatta Rfver.
Gentlemen,—l am proud to cermy the gr
benefit I have derived from the use of ST. JAQC
OIL. A short time agef I bad the misfortune
hurt my leg, and through acute pain I could
taae my usual daily exercise, in iaot, co
scarcely walk; when I met Mr. Edward Hanl
the most accomplished sculler of the age, who
vised and gave me two bottles of your Oil.
commenced using it according to instructions, i
as if it had been especially prepare! to meet
sufferings, a few applications enabled me to
an me my rowfng and walking exercise. I n
further add, gentlemen, for tne benefit of th
who may suffer from rheumatism, contraction
muscles, stiffness in the joints, sprains, &0.. tha
can safely recommend your St. Jacobs Oil; s
especially to athletes addi. ted to sailing and rc
ing, and in my opinion no boathouse or trainii
quarters should be without it,
Yqurs faithfully,
W. G. BRETT.
Champion Amateur Oarsman of Australia


Political
Poits
n is rumoured that Sir Henry and Sir
John have made it up, and wiil pull in the same
b °What they ask for in Woolloomooloo Bay
A bob tin of your honourable Standard Paint,
nlease, mister.”
P « We shall go to the Customs,” was all the
t» electors could get out of little Renwick.
e fp/nect that is all the other Ministerial” push ”
Sfd e the little man who bad ” been ac-
cused of revealing Government secrets.
BOUGH ENOUGH!
Ist Hit. There’s something in Sir Pat,
Ist wi. If nQt> > twou ia p e a rum thing—
„n*rvr Why, yes, indeed, that’s hat!
rf ad on. there's lots of room for—s ometliiny.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.L. A., has departed
mr England without a word of warning to his
Pamden constituents. There were excellent
reason?for Thomas’ departure, and these may or
ro**“ u , , fnliv exolained by Old JdCit
Bo4r“son, b the faithful friend, in whose hands
Thomas has left his political business.
Ttist before the recent Victorian general
election we congratulated young Dr. Quick dn the
olfherence he showed to Radicalism by refusing, a
Portfolio in the new hybrid Coalition Government,
SSdwe predicted that he would have his conduce
5?,1v recognised by being returned at the top ot
the doII Sandhurst electors have evidently
gome opinion, for we had that the young
uldical ban ister has been elected bv a clear
malority of 881 votes over the second successful
i A if Bailes the publican aud foot
Taber) and by a majority of 1113 votes over
Screech-owl Mackay, the late member.
Savs the London Times Throughout
Greater portion of Ireland tbe Queen s writ
run; the ordinary law is set at defiance;
™ man's property or life is safe unless he submits
?? the orders of the National League, whose
courts possess all the power which the courts of
Uphove loaf the Queen s name has been ex-
mmged from the public prayers of the Catholic
Church and is ostentatiously omitted from public
Proceedings; and, in a word, absolute rebellion
Imperial control in every form and degree
iff thinly veiled by wholesome dread of a numerous
iarrison Sded by a semi-military constabulary ’
One of the surprises of the Victorian
general election was the position occupied by the
fndoraitabl© and clever David Gaunson on the poll
for Emerald Hill. Two years ago he got in by 15
votes hva great fluke in consequence of the Hon.
W M K. Vale? and Mr. Alex- Brown dividing the
“Liberal” vote between them. Oa this occasion
CaTinsnii colled 2330 votes as against 911
recorded for hiS in October, 1883, and this time he
ran the popular John Nimmo closer than any man
ever ran him before. Gaunson was opposed tooth
and nail by the teetotallers, paaim-singe rs, Orange-
men and devil-dodgers, and was strenuously
auDDorted by the Homan Cataolics, hotehbeepers,
cricketer s, rowing-men, anti local optionists, Aus-
frnfiari natives—for Mr. Gaunson is a Sydney
: native—and the Freethought party (which is fast
becoming an important potent faotorfc tne
nniitioal world). John Oavan Duiry nas ueeu
ousted from DalhousiOs which has beena&indof
’ pbeket-borough for the Duffys for about a score
Of years. . j
H That curious little philosopher, Forest
Bill Renwick, will probfthty And himself on the
wrong side of the door of next Parliament. At
last general election he posed as an anti-Dibbs
man and by working the Orange vote obtaiued a
s“at. His close contest with a third-rate mm like
Stephens shows that if it had not been lor the
sentimental objection to ousting a newly-ap-
pointed Minister, the medical
would have had the lid once more jammed down
oa him and his aspirations. It does not seem from
his recent utterances that be any sens
or learnt anything more'of political decency than
he knew when he “ blabbed ” Cabinet secrets and
turned “ Queen’s evidence to save himself irom
the defeat that threatened his colleagues, for his
Idiotic remark that Mr. Dibbs had been put in a
place where he could do no harm is
toa-verybad quarter of ao hour when the Minis-
ters met. The inclusion of Dr.Renw.cb In the
Cabinet proves clearly enough that Sir Patrick
must have been very hard-up f ° r . a , Prague, “r
else he never would have elevated the author or
that never-to-be-forgotten Forest Bill. ,
These are what the Melbourne Age says
are the sentiments of the present Victorian Coali-
tion Ministry;-” Politics are to be understood as
Mr. Matthew Arnold understands God the Power
that maketh for righteousness in *be world, in-
capable of personification, having no
and being nothing Dut a sort of cosmic Aura, that
unites all mankind in an indistingufshable mist ot
fueling, and is interfused through all tbtugs-
Liberais aud Conservatives, protectionists and
free-traders, Deakins and Mackays, rats
Tiers, the Government, and the Opposition.
Pretty writing, isn’t it ? The whole ot the articm
is an attack on Mr. Deaki's who atone time was
the white-headed boy of the Age. The reason of
all this seems to be that now the Liberal and Con-
servative parties have joined together, the Age is
without an occupation—except such as Gimiian
ascribed to Carlyle, “ to lie down m the pathway
of human progress and bellow.’ If it support the
Govhrnment, why then so does the AKGUS. As
well expect these two to agree as to expect a goat
to go in harness with a wombat. Ihe age wants
to bos3 the Government—that or nothing. Its
motto is, to paraphrase the expression of Louis
XIV., LVtat e'est David Sum.
The Reohabites and Lb cal Optionists fared
very badly at the recent general elections in vic-
toria, and a great many candidates who ran on
the Sabbatarian ticket had a similar experience.
This shows that people down South are riot all la
favour of grandmotherly legislation Among
those who have been defeated in consequence ot
their narrow views on the Sunday question and
the drink question, are JaS. Mira ms, H. Bell,
John James, ex-Hon. R Richardson (Grand Master
Of the Orange order), Alex Brown, F. J. ritten,
J. H Connor, W. Trenwlth, J. J. HaH» A. Dark-
ness, J R. dopkins. and W. E Adcock. Among
those who were returned as opponents ot. the
Reohabites and Sabbatarians are toe following
strong men; - D avid Gaunson. J - B. Patterson,
W. c. Smith, G. D. Carter, L. L. Smith, J. W.
Pierce, C. E Jones, 3 H. Graves, Peter Lalor. Jno.
MTntyre, Chas. Young, B. J.’ Fink, W. bniels,
Chae. Smith. Dr Quick, John Wools. A. T. Clark,
Walter Madden, J. Murray, J. J. Madden, Murphy,
W. G Field, W. \Oder on, V Cooper, Geo. Ooopu>,
B. L Z x. C M. Officer, C. Aircrews, J D many.T .
Hunt J. M Hi rd jto, J l’. Brown, A. M’Ltati, J.
Sha ktil, A. S. Bai es F l’. Dernam J Toohey, E
K, Qaoieron, P B Wallace, F. O. ruteili, R. Bar-
fowes, aua J. Harris.
Graham Berry is to be presented with a
Service o< plate before he leaves Victoria to tase
up his Agent-Generalship. A service of piate 1
Weu, he deserves it. the Cuntservatives say
|o. This shows how the tithes phange and so on.
We remember when they would have liked to pre-
|hnt him with another kind of plate—a coilin-
plate. He la not, however, going to get hia picture
hung up in the National Gallery just yet, though
Jimmy Bervice is Bitting for his portrait, which ia
to be suspended among the other masterpieces
there. A member of Parliament suggested, at the
meeting held in connection with the Berry Testi-
monial, that Parliament should pay for the por-
traits of eminent politicians and have them hung
on the walls of the Melbourne Walhalla. The
suggestion was received with a shudder at first,
and then—when the lull grotesquerie of the idea
dawned upon them—with howls of derisive ap-
plause. Just think I There are 86 members in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly. This would mean
86 portraits, or else—well, or else one-fourth of
the members would carry on the government of
the country, half would he in the hospital, and the
remainder in the deaa-hiuse. The survivors in
the House would, of course, be the eminent politi-
cians. Mr. Bent would take a high rank among
these. So would Patterson, of Oastlemaioe. If
little Mirams were a member then, he would be m
the deadhouae-quiet for toe first time in his life.
And probably the proposer of the suggestion
would occupy a place adjacent to him.
Whenever a Parliamentary election ia
coming on in Victoria, the edict goes forth from
the Melbourne Age office that all Roman Catholics
are to be boycotted, and David Syme’s organ did
not fail to resort to such disreputable tactics at
the general election just over. In some cases the
Age hits straignt out from the shoulder; in others,
it hits below the belt. . 'This is hew it recently hit
Councillor William.levers in the Carlton election:
—“ln Carlton, Caesar and Pompey are so very
much alike that we confess ourselves unable to
adjudicate between them. But we suppose it is
between Mr. Gardiner and Mr. levers, the laiter of
whom is a Catholic .” The hint was quietly taken
by the bigots with the result that the poll stood
Gardiner, 1565; levers. 968 The defeated candidate
very properly complained that the election had not
been decided on tne relative merits of the two men.
Everyone has heard of Jack Gardiner. By way
of a joke, the Carlton footballers whom Jack
captained put him up to oppose the Hon.
Jas. Munro, who had ‘ ratted ” from the Liberal
party. The footballer heat the clever politician.
Ever since he has been ia Parliament he has been
the laughing stock of the House. His two most
brilliant performances have been in advocating
the abolition of the barmaids, and getting the
Carlton quarry holes filled up. He has been
elected tnree time 3 by the Orange, Rechabite,
Wesleyan, and Salvation Army vote. His late
opponent. Cr. leveis, is a young man who has
worked his way up the ladder, is shrewd and well-
read, has built up a large business by his own
energy, and is one of the smartest members of the
Melbourne City Council. But he is a Roman
Catholic, and therein lies his sole offence His
f ather was one of the few earnest democrats in Vic-
toria who helped to place Liberalism in ascendancy,
and young Mr levers has always been identified
with,the progressive party. Mr John Gardiner
was unknown when the levers were working on
behalf of the popular cause, and Mr. Gardiner
alongside Mr. levers is a mere pigmy. But this
did not concern the Age, which pretends to be the
organ of Democracy. levers was a Liberal in
politics, but a Papist in religion. Gardiner was a
nonentity in politics, but a Protestant in religion.
This wa3 why the Age opposed levers and sup-
ported the incapable Gardiner. If this policy is
pursued it will have the effect (as it already has
had) of excluding from public life some of the
best and most useful men in the Southern colony.
Sir Henniker Heaton has made his open-
ing speech in the House of Commons, and—oh, ye
godsl—the member for Canterbury has been—sat
upon! In this wise. Mr. Chamberlain had asked
the Under-Seoretary of State for Foreign Affairs
whether the British Government was prepared to
send a fleet to prevent the possibility of an attack
upon the Turkish seaboard. Sir Henniker inter-
jected: “Before the right hon. gentleman answers
that question I wish to ask him the following on
the&same subject—viz , whether his attention has
been called to the following statement made to-
day by the correspondent of the Times— ‘ Lrird
Salisbury’s sensible action is most opportune for
the peace of Europe and kindly to Greece herself.
(Cheers and dissent.) Telegrams have come in all
the afternoon and evening testifying to the joy ’
The Speaker: ‘ The hon. gentleman is only readiDg
extracts from a newspaper. The reading of such
extracts is not asking a question of a Minister.’
(Hear, hear).” And so was the extinguisher
placed upon one who was to have shone in the
British Commons as an example of Australian
intelligence. Mr Chamberlain must have felt
keenly gratified by the snub which the bounding
kangaroo received, and it is just possible the
Under-Seoretary was not less pleased. But they
should have let Sir Henniker have a little longer
run. In three months’ time, if unchecked, he
would have been running England on brand new
lintes. Six months later his place would be leader
of the lords temporal, and in one year Henniker
would be King of England, Emperor of India,
Czar of Newfoundland, and Mayor of Woolloo-
mooloo. But now he 's sat upon. Letuswaii:
Oh, Heaton, we had hoped, indeed, to see
One name “emblazoned on the scroll of fame,”
To hear one voice from o’er the rolling sea
By nations greeted with a glad acclaim;
Thine was the voice, and thine the name we
viewel
In Fancy, as the name and voice of one
Whose pathway was with laurel wreaths be-
strowsd
Of whom we wildly would exclaim, “Well done.”
But so it may not be, and thus we weep,
The bitter tears adown our pale cheeks run,
Alljealous of your wit. and wisdom deep
(Ece yet to flash it's lightnings had begun),
They bid you shut your bead, and go to sleep.
’Tis thus ambition doth itself o’erleap
And straigntway “slither” down the slipp'ry
steep. „
From now, Sir Heaton, “ Henniker,” or “John,
Your title here will be “ Sir Sat-Upon ’
Farmers in Victoria are crying out for
labourers. The labourer's life ii usually not a
happy one there; 15s. a week is average pay at
the busiest season. He has to rise at 4 o'clock in
the morning, go a mile or two ia search of horses,
and then start work. His breakfast is “salt
horse,” and potatoes, generally boiled the day
before. Dinner is much the same. He knocks otf
at dark, but must cut chaff or roll logs till bed-
time. One man says that it is only a few of the
most degraded swipers that can be got to follow
the plough among the “ cockles ” in Victoria.
A recent issue of a Sydney paper contained
the following advertisement:—“ This is to certify
that Bridget , residing at 19 street, Darling
Harbour, will prosecute any person or persons
that she can prove in court says that she caused
the death of two lata husbands dying of drink.
She married two confirmed drunkards, although
she old not know it at the time, although they
both hastened their death by intemperance.”—
Well, Bridget, folks have little business here to
interfere,
Or mention chose who, “ lost to sight, are still to
memory dear;”
Let’s see, your number one was Brown, and he
cried quantum suff .
Wheu Death shut oil his air-supply, and told him
he'd enough;
And number two was—Bridget, was it White, or
Green, or Black ?
What matter, he has got his harp, we cannot cail
him back;
The people who would dare to say you drove
them to the grave,
Have surely ad rorgotten that each has a soul to
save;
’Twas n t' you, Bridget, drove them there, we
marked the passiug hearse, ,
Aad saw a loan man drive them each from bad to
what is worse;
Taey cannot p ove tb things they say, so, Bridget,
. what avaus „ . . .
Your ad.? Their witnesses are dead, and “deaa
men teil no tales.'’
By the use of that admirable stimulant, Wolfe's
hnapps, your lives will be lengthened.
CORRESPONDENCE
[CorretpondenU who yvoe ‘neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to home their eom-
vMinieation* noticed.!
“ P.H.”: You write as though you
thought you had a monopoly of human intelli-
gence. Beit there is nothing new in your asser-
tions, so we don’t intend to answer specifically
allegations that we have thumped at for years
past. You are an Imperialist and a Tory. We are
not of that persuasion. You say“ If the British
aristocracy would expel such members as bring
disgrace on them. If our British landlords would
do their duty by their tens nts and expend part Of
their incomes on their estates instead of in foreign
cities: if our British merchants would do their duty
to their omployees, and capitalist would do ifs duty
to labour-if, I repeat, all this were done we
should hear little of Democracy or Socialism.”
“Now, iofldel, we have thee on the hip.” You
admit that under the present system these privi
leged classes can and do habitually commit social i
crimes by neglecting their plain duty, and yet you
say nasty things about us because we desire re-
form in the whole system. If all these men did
their duty without compulsion some of the ends
of Damocracy would be achieved, but this they
never will do voluntarily as long as the sides of a
square are equal to one another. So also your
head would make you a “rank Democrat” if
your heArt were not filled with Tory blood—
“M. M‘L”; The booksellers have not got it in
stock, You must write to England “J.W.”:
He seems to have proved that Euclid’s problems
are soluble in alcohol “Charley Snile”: You
may be the champion plain and fancy kisser of the
globe, but you can’t write poetry for sour apples.
.. .“Angelina”: Your photo, would be ever so
much prettier than your poem “ B.B.”: Thanks
—send them along “E.A.S.”: What on earth
made you think that “ sorrow ” and “ hurrah ”
would rhyme? Have you been reading Geo. H*
Reid's Exhibition Cantata?...." J. 8.”: Thanks ....
“J.F.” (Wentworth): Will hold over for the pre-
sent. ...“E.'O’B,”: Not knowing, can’t say. There
areas many onflictiog readings of Shakespeare
as there are of the Old Testament. In either case
your best way is to choose your sect or commen-
tator and swear to that one ever after...." J.S.’»
(Roma, Q ): Don’t know; we haven’t a monopoly
of intelligence, although you’d think we had if
you were to read the Sydney evening outrages on
journalism...!" Jim ”: Your poetry on an Even-
ing News ad. is only less stupid than the ad
itself. Try again...."A.C.” (Launceston): You
might call when in Sydney...." Camera”: That
lyric about " Lucy’s dress improver” is not quite
good enough. Try something else; your compo-
sition is g00d.../' R.B ”: Captain David Walker,
we are told, was over 80 years in the A.S N.
Co.’s service, and was their oldest commander—
‘ KiDg Billy ”: Will deal, with your letter as soon
as possible... “X” (RaudwickD Please call—
“ Thespis” (Maryborough, Q): Thanks. We
would write you. Kindly send name....“A.
Beverly ”: MS. on application. Sketch is crude,
but shows power and a fair amount Of
dramatic force "Eatre Nous”: Next week—
“E.G.W.”: No; he cannot go and arrest anyone
without a warrant, except to prevent commission
of some felony or misdemeanour.. “J. Raikes”: W e
only know the Maori method, which is to harpoon
the shark; attach the harpoon-line to a big oi'-i
can, and let the briite loose again. He soon tires
himself to death by trying to pull down the can....
“Arthur B.”: Noticed elsewhere...." Inquirer ”:
London was never in Sydney before she
foundered, nor, we think, after. The horse-tram
was in Pitt-street, not fin Elizabeth-street....
“ W.T.F.”: Good, strong, effective libel poetry.
Worth about £lOOO a line, but not to us, William,
not to us.
A digger, since ’52, who opiaes from the
general correctness of our pars, relating to gold-
fields in the fifties, that we have “ been there’-
ourselves, writes to point out a singular coinci-
dence He says“ I don’t know whether you re-
marked the reports in the Sydney daily papers on
the Croydon rush for the past two or three weeks;
if you have vou ought to feel sorry for the poor
old digger. This is what I allude to: On the 4th of
the month, say, a boat is advertised to steam to Nor-
manton, taking passengers at £lO per head; on the
Ist, 2nd, 3rd., there are splendid accounts from
there in the same dailies—reefs cropping up,
showing* good gold for miles along the surface.
The day after the boat departs they report Croydon
rush very much exaggerated, people leaving, &e.
We have not heard a word from them since. But
as the boat is advertised to sail on the 10ch, we
expect splendid accounts on Monday next. And
for the last four or five years those straDge coinci-
dences have been occurring.—Yours, J. B.” [ L’he
long list of terrible deaths from heat-apoplexy re-
ported fro u along the Croydon track should
surely induce a little caution on the part
of the telegraphic correspondents of the daily
papers.— Ed. B]
Mr. Booth, the temperance orator, has
been on the war-path in Tasmania, and m a lec-
ture delivered before a crowded audience, of men
only, ar. the Town Hall, Hobart, on tmadsy, Feb-
ruary 28. ho made unnustakeableSreference to
alleged immoral practices carried on iw “high
quarters.’ The issue of the Tasmanian News on
tna foliowing Monday contained the following
paragraph (in a leading article) ‘ The tongue of
scanaai does not always spare those in high places,
and her busy rumours have not alwayß been with-
out foundation or justification as proves ia more
than <ne instance in our past, history. Men hold-
ing high public positions have been conspicuous
tor conduct w iea would nave led to painful re-
sults to themselves had they occupied lower
grad;, in the social ‘c le: and tfleucea against,
moral and social aw b-tre been d alt le. ie tly
wit , or overhiohbu altogether, merely b cause
the off f-der nave beeo in a p sition to screen
t emseives uuder the tacit sanotiou of influential
pro ect! rs And yet these m-n have bteo tole-
rated, and are to.erated m pcs tions which should
omy be flhea by thobe of unoiemishea charac”
and honour.” ‘‘Phewl" you will exclqim—wu*i
does this mean ? People in Tasmania know wl, t
it means, very well indeed.
The Queensland Government imported,
per s.s. New Guinea, 50 single women servants.
When they landed, only eight or nine were open
for work—nearly all the rest meditated instant
matrimony. They wouldn’t be servants-they
would be wiv'S. At least some of them will yet
find that servant and wife are often th i same
thing as far as the work is concerned.
An enterprising N. Z. registrar of births
and deaths has struck out a new lice in Art
Unions. He recently apntied to the C fief Secre-
tary for permission to ruffle a comely miirriasreanle
damsel, who, in addition to other accomplish-
ments, can cook. The naidea has s'vuifieu bur
wi lingness, and Is prepared to marrv tne mau
who wins he--. It wM be awkward if a married
maa is the highest throw on th it occasion.
A new and ingenious method of breaking
crockery has been instituted by Mary Ulancy, »
maid-of-all-work, in Victoria, rfo ar as we can
learn, the young lady is self-educated and always
had a mechanical turn. Mrs. Norris, landlady of a
pub. at Moorabbin (Vic), had occasion to “jaw ”
Mary, and the domestic, by way of repartee,
- bashed her with a jug.” Follow ng up her argu-
ment, the girl broke a tea pot of a >me value over
her mistress’s bead, and then, afUr shleing some
other useful and ornamental articles about the
b.'usc, without waiting for her screw, she with-
drew to the Dosotn of her family.
Fourteen years ago Ellen Lacy, of Nuna-
wading (Vic.), left that rural seclusion to go to
Melbourne. So far, she has not arrived, nor been
heard of, and her husband, inferring from her
continued absence that she is dead, has applied to
Judge Molesworth for letters of administration to
her estate. Poor Ellen, if she had left nothing
valuable on earth, her name would long ere this
have been forgotten. But with the perversity of
toe sex she may turn up O K. after all, and spoil
his little game. There was a miner working at
Bendigo not many years ago who went by the
name of De Lacy Evans, lie was a woman. Per-
haps Judge Molesworth remembers her.
“ Many of the crimes committed recently
in the colony, and more particularly in Melbourne,
have been so idiosyncratic that they seem to call
for treatment in the hospital rather than in the
gaol.” Thus the Melbourne Leader. It is not so
clear that criminal idiosyncrasies are more active
now than at previous periods. A large segment
of each year s circle of crime possesses the charac-
terists of strongly marked individualities. It is
the advance ih knowledge of mental states that
leads some to think that new idiosyncrasies are
being exhibited. However arrived at, the con-
clusion is good. In more and moreejses as time
goes on, the hospital will take the place of the
gaol, and meiielne will work the good which the
“ cat” has failed to perform.
We have received from Messrs, George
Robertson and Co. a copy of Mr. Robert Louis
Stevenson’s shilling story, “ The strange c.ise of
Hr Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, which like most of Mr.
Stevei Bons books leaves a powerful impression
on the reader s miad. The tale is eertainly un-
canny enough to satisfy the most entnusiastic
admimr of Hoffmann or Poe. The conception is a
strikmgly original one The Saturday Review
likens it to Poe's “ William Wilson,” but we think
the comparison txtremely far-fetebed. The story
is short—it makes 140 small pages of large print-
hut it is none the less striking for that. Some of
the papers seem to think that Mr. Stevenson
“underrated the importance of his oentral idea,”
and that he should have made his book as long as
“ a Strange Story.” Had he doEe so, h:s “central
idea” would have been drowned in words There
are few authors nowadays who have the courage
to begin a book only when they have something
to tell, and to end it when they have done.
Srevenson la one, Julian Hawthorne another.
Ma .y of the other writers might adopt for a
device the needy knife-grinders cry: “Story!
God bless you! I have none to tell, sir ” It wouffl
rpoil the reader’s enjoyment of Mr Stevenson’s
story to hint at the plot; therefore we are dumb.
But let him get it, and if he begin the hook he will
most surely finish it.
The Government Life Insurance Associa-
tion of N Z bas lately appointed a Mrs Bullock
agent at Wanganui with a view to securing more
pr posals from the female sex. Proposals to
assure, of course, we mean. The lady’s name Is
very likely to militate against her Success. We
have yet to see the lady who was not nearly
scared to death if a cow were walking towards
her at a distance of half a mile, while tne sight of
a b&llock inside a six-railed stockyardi would un-
decide them whether to kneel down and pray or
tuck up and run. So, Mrs. Bullock, take a chair,
please:—
We are sorry for you, madam,
On our word we are ma'am, very;
For your chance of making money
At this game is slight indeed,
If your “screw ” is fixed, you’ve had ’em,
And your agent's life, so merry,
In that land of milk and honey,
You can “ go the pace ” with speed.
But we could have ’ placed you ” better
If you’d written us before you
Took that little berth of agent,
(Why your name would st.p a clock!)
Had you dropped to us a letter
Ere this had Honour o er you
In Imaginative pageant, driven just about a
block,
And installed you here in Sydney to Insure the
lives of stock.
So many little papers keep on appearing
and having a flutter, just now, in Sydney, that it is
rather difficult to keep an account of them. Tn
order however, to be au courant as to the current
literature of the day, we went into a shop the
other night, purchased all the bantlings, read them
all through and retired to rest in a condition of
extreme dejection Ii one of these uproarious
productions somebody (the editor, perhaps,) con-
siders, evident y that he has acquired the art of
‘ making it ’ : for he comes out with a copy of
verses on Sir Henry Pa kes of a decidedly
peculiar character The temptation to quote
the whole poem, we own, is great, but we’il
have this time to content ourselves with two
tanzas Read:—
“ Who though he apes the watch dog’s pose,
Is but a wolf in honest cloths, ( sic)
And helps himself by others woeb? [ I!!]
The Knight of the tip-tilted nose.
Sir Henry.
Who kept a two-faced diary Ll!]
Wnieh—may the dev'l admire me I-(sic)
Would only prove just what he choose?
This Knight of the tip-tilted nose,
Sir Henry.
Notwithstanding the heat of the weather, we feel
we must make an effort and deliver unto this un-
fortunate bard a humble homily. Here goes,
then :
It's very easy ain’t it, eh?
You set a ” fay ' to rhyme to “ Bay,”
And then you’re fixed, for bless your heart I
There s nothing in the other part.
Young man I you are young, for in sooth.
Your spelling, pmmp proclaims your youth I
Way du you quit ih ■> ledger buff
For this sad and delu°ive s'utf?
Oroe launched, your fall’s c mp<ete, you’ e
lost!
You'll rhyme, alas! at any cost!
E’en it but some poor doggerel quip—
A crown’s worth—for a Jewish snip.
Quick! put thy harp beneath thy heel;
a vow t > Silence sign and real;
And if n >w 1. dgers are deuien
Thee, nnr mom seek the c.m ter s side.
There, thou shalfc fi id ecstatic bliss
“* x welve-outto — J'MVin ? —d rectly, Miss.
What next, please ? Tooh I your dart, ’tie
clear-
“ lovely scarves— 1 not now ?’ Cashi- r !’„
”rouB use or Wulft uSolmappx will impar-
.!./ i.u and invigorate the body.
fall for Wot-FE’s Schnapps. It is the only
genuine brand. Be certain you get "Wolfe's.


PEPPER AND SALT.
For a level head, commend us to Mr.
Ai.red Bennett, of the Sydney Evening News
He is “ well out of it ”, now before the anti-climax
sets in. The tithe is not far distant when a depu-
tation will solemnly form itself at Canterburyi
interview Alfred’s brother-in-law, Henniker,
solemnly in Vere de Vere Gardens, and solemnly
jump on him. His constituents don’t want to go
far for a legitimate cause of complaint against
Henrdker His cordiality ; the baring
of his gums; the mutilation of any two-line period;
or, especially his lauwh—Her, horl But even that
wouldn't cruse the hou member, for he’d get a
paragraph in the evening papers saying that he
had been visited by a distinguished body of the
e’ectors, whose enthusiasm was so marked that
before departing they insisted upon drinking his
health in the Gliel-na-3ballach fashion. The quo-
tation applying, he would add, might be possibly
unknown to the editor, and he would therefore
venture to supply it: -
They pledged him, with hands held on high,
With white Are darting from each eye;
And 10l to give the toast more zest,
Each quaffer’s brogue upon his breast.
—The Goat. An Epic Poem. Canto 1.
Mr. D. M. Davies represents Grenville in
the Victorian Assembly. According: to tho Argus
summary ot politicians' politics, Mr. Davies “is
opposed to pensions, but advooates voting morey
to deserving members of the House." Such senti-
ments must not go unsung:—
In these days of “jobs” and “favourr,” when the
public funds are spent—
Nay squandered-rather recklessly by th se to
whom they’re lent,
’Tie rare, ’tis very rare, indeed, one senator to
find
Who don’t approve of shady trioks, and plainly
speaks his mind.
But such a one, it now appears, was lately on the
stump
(Among the legislative cards we pick him as a
trump),
The sentiments that he expressed did honour to
his heart—
He stands from other members on a platform quiie
apart.
A keen regard has Davies for the people and their
purse;
He'd keep tho strings pulled tightly, nor would
willingly disburse
Stray thousands to the widows ®f the public men
who die
And haven’t been so frugal as to'put a little by.
He don’t approve the custom (and he puts the
matter straight)
Of letting played-out people’lbe a burden on the
State;
fee is quite opposed to pensions, and would no-
thing give away.
Except—a grant of money to a needy M.L.A.
Now, that’s the sort of patriot ,we look od with
delight,
Who draws a sharp distinction ’twixt what is
wrong and right ;
The “ members of the House ” alone would he by
grant enrioh—
There are a few deserving ones—and h© knows
which is which.
And if it—oh, the Lord forbid!—should ever come
to pass
That D. is out of collar and in want of any brass,
We hope his worthy colleagues won’t be mean
enough to “chowse”
Him out of what is due to decent “ members ol
the House.”
■ * ♦
The othor day those benevolent people
the British Tories, stole Buirnah from its peoplt
in order that the latter might be given the un-
speakable advantages of a proper religious educa-
tion. Last week it was cabled to Australia that
the ungrateful wretches of Burmese were “re
belling—that a force of 90C0 rebels—armed, pro-
bably, with waddles—had surrounded the Britis*
garrison at Yemotha, which consists of 860 men
possibly not destitute of Gardner guns and Mat
tlni-Hi nry rifles. Anyhow, it now seems thatthi
gallant 300 have since got a Jot the bett-.r ol tin
trouble, which, were thwjr opponents demised Auu
decently-armed troops, would be somewhat sur-
prising. We read that some interesting experi-
ments in photography are being made by the
British provost-marshal at the Burmese capital.
Tn the present unsettled state of affairs it happens
that batches of Burmese are led out for exe-
cution every morniDg before breakfast, and
the provost-marshal, who is quite an enthusiast
with the camera, is anxious to procure some good
negatives of the prisoners at the exact moment
when British bullets lay them low. Accordingly, a®
soon as the wretched Burmese are ranged in a
line, and the firing party have received the order
Presen ,!’’ the provost fixes his camera ready for
action. Then he gives the Anal professional in-
structions No. 1, prisoner, for instance, is re-
quested to “turn alittle this way,” No. 2 is deßired
to keep his “eyes fixed on the rifles;” No. 3 is
earnestly solicited to “ try to look as pleasant as
possible’’—and so on. Then, just as the order
“ Fire! ” is givm, the artist whips off the “ cap,”
and secures his negative. Up to the present these
experiments have not been very successful, be-
cause the fitters—or standers, rather— will tremble
just as the bullets are coming. But as there is
every prospect of executions (by order of the
provost marshal, bear in mind) continuing for
some time yet, he ought to be able to get a real
GOOD MORNING!
GOOD GRACIOUS!
good picture before Burmah is depopulated. At
rresent, we believe, the question of head-rests for
' he Prisoners is agitating the mind of this artistic
exponent of the blessings of British rule in furrin
oarts.
• * *
The Welsh inhabitants of Ballarat and its
vicinity have been indulging in very virulent
oymric lately. The reason was that they were
lispleased with the awards given at the recent
Sisteddfodd. What is an Eisteddfodd? Ah, there
rou are. Well, it js a meeting where Taffy sings
he songs of bis own land in his own mellifluous
r .ongue. Here is a specimen verse of one of these
Win may tell you this song always brings down the
house. It is said to have been composed by an old
Welsh bard attached to the court of Owen Glen-
dower (who “could raise spiritß from the vasty
deep” whenever he had a mind to), and we are
informed is full of that wild, sweet pathos—that
“ sorrow more beautiful than Beauty’s Belf,” as
Keats says-peculiar to Celtic minstrelsy. We
don’t know much about the language ourselves,
so we can’t say whether all this is true or not, but
we like the sound of the words, rather. They were
sent us by a prominent Eisteddfodder, so we
reckon they are all right. By the way, it is said
that Alice Rees made her dibut as a singer at one
of these shivoos. Well, if she did, more power to
them! Slantha!
*«*
A 3 we have informed you several times
previously, we have read some of Mr. Froude’s
book about Australia. Weil, we have, until now,
been in a state of stupefied surprise as to why
he was so invariably encomiastic about U 3. Now,
we know how it was. He bad never teen in a
Surry Hills boarding-house—just as the hash wtf B
being dumped up to the table. If he had I—Well,
he would probably have branded us all as either
blackfellows or felons. So much, you see, depends
upon what a man gets to eat. If he had—in order
to study our social life from various points of
view—gone for a week to one of these hash em-
poria, he would have noticed that on the first day
of his stay there would be a fresh joint for dinner
“Hem," he would probably say to himself, “not
very elegant menu, but still good plain food.”
Next morning, when he saw the hacked and
hewn skeleton of that joint put on the table as
the piCce de resistance, he might be inclined to
think that there could be a sort of mo
notony about even good plain food. But he
would be sorry for the thought afterwards—for
he would never see a whole again while he
stayed in that boarding-house. The rest of hig
time then would be chiefly employed in spearing
with a verdigrlsed fork for lumps ot fried liver or
mutt n lying at the bottom of of gruesome
gravy, or in grimly gnashing his way along
through serried (and terriole) dishes of hash. And
he would have to be mighty quick about it too, or
the other boarders would leave him o swing his
jaws through vacant air. They never waste time
jo fastidious preliminaries. They know each other
too well I Thy simply bare their teeth-tush
teeth, tool—and wade in. But on Saturday night
he w uid c joy the study ot this phase of life in
earnest. Suppose he is sitting in the parlour
reading. It is late. Suddenly he hears a
orash in the passage. lie rushes *
know the reason, and stumbles Qv * *
body of a man who is lying prone n th ®
face oh the canvas snorting fearfully r hls
alarm he goes to the head of great
(they all sleep somewhere about the kitof^ 8
perhaps in the dish-ttoug'h, or, maybe
table) and calls the servant. She answer! V* 16
muffled voioe-in all likelihood, her ii™ a
wreathed around the relic of a mutton bone - are
at that moment-and presently trudges unot!!* 1 *
He points to the man, and in tones, half of
half of consternation, enquires who he 86r ’
what he means by it. The slavey coolly
down and turns the face of.tbe intruder un tVS? 1
light, and then says iff'a tone of cheerful rpa ° the
ance: “ It’s only Mister M’Gann, sir. He’s Sr
but he’s quiet as a lamb unless you begin
«gin Ireland to him. Then he’s a ragin’ dive, %
the gemielmen gits drunk to-night, sir. •
tially) What B your night for p'ayia’ lla b , ®
Hey! We should like to know what’/ 11
W °£ d think ° f Us »«» S
week s experience. He was dined, and U>e<i
floated through the country on a sea of ch* 11 *
pagne. „ No wonder things had a gilded lrmw'
».*• « »»* «*.■ th, pains to come’here
under an assumed name, and then prospected th!
understrata of society for himself, l Eß ‘ead of t»t
ing its characteristics on trust, and had tub*
quently managed to get an introduction to th'
upper crust as an ordinary traveller, he W ohm
have written a more valuable and readahil
though, perhaps, a less flattering book than th«
one he has for it-well, it i, 10 f “
aF its value as aa authority on Australia is con
cerned, worth about so much as a vo'ume written
by Lord Cariogton on the same subject would be
but not as much, by a long chalk, as one by
Garden Honey. 7
THE SQUATTER'S LIFE.
When a squatter's lost the run of h s employment,
Tanks are empty, sheep all dead about his dam;
His Ilf ■? Is not quite cramful of enjoy meat—
Hi* lot: he’d change for that of any other man:
His feelings he with difficulty smothers,
13 it his duty It ever muct he done—
Taking one consideration with another,
A quatter’s life is not a happy one,
The rabbits, too, are steadily advancing,
Infested soou the stations all will be;
His improvements, too, will go when falls his
lease in,
And the rents increased will put him “up a tree.”
When a pound of wool is fetching only sixpence.
And good sheep are bringing barely half-a-
crown,
When working for the hanks and station-agents,
OhJ a squatter's life is not a happy one.
When the grass and run are pretty well selected,
And the banks begin to gendy put on “ screw,”
When no little lambs there are to out the tails off,
The squatter’s apt to look a little blue;
And he thinks he’d better start a magio-lantern,
Upon the tight-rop s put his little son—
Taking one consideration with another,
A squatter's life is not a happy one.
But, when the rain comes down in rushing tor-
rents
Tanks and dams all brimming fuli and running
o’er;
Sheep and lambs are all as fat as grass can make
’em,
The squatter says he’ll “ whip the cat” no mbre.
Four horses now he thinks will just but do him,
For the grass is green and waving on the run,
The banks, he thinks, need now no longer screw
him,
OhJ the squatter’s life Is now a happy one.
G RYFFOD AP-LIKWELLYN.
Gryffod-ap-Lleweiiyn Plymm
Waita nnaym to goeto bbedwyth—
Hhee wudd ffylle uppe to ttbe terra
Rhumm-ri-jynn-n-bbittye bbters
Ann-y-tbynuge to sswelle bys heddwythl
Yt wyz aoll tthe asaym to taymne.
Gryffod-ap-Lleweiiyn Plymm,
Ffuile uf llikkyr to tthe brymml
Chokus - Sso settemupp nyffqer u ego;
I'her ys nno 1 ikkyr ddoun bbHh e.
UNFORTUNATE GUBBUNS.
The London correspondent of an Austra-
lian daily paper writes that one of the cons*,
quinces of the action of the National League in
Ireland was that “Mr. Gubbine has had to sell his
hounds and hunters preparatory to leaving the
county of Limerick.” Great heavens! Can this
?. e ? T, lf B °’ lfc 18 f 0 to ° much ’ and !■ quite
time the British Government acted upon thesug-
gestion of the correspondent, and made “the re-
conquest of Ireland, in the meantime abrogating"
its constitutional rights.” Prose is too feeble for
such a theme. Our blood, boils when we think of
it. Up till now we had sympathised with the Irish
people. We honestly thought they had something
to complain of. We thought they had been, in a
measure, opposed, apd even, .downtrodden, but
this last desperate wickedness of theirs has
alienated from them our sympathies far ever
Henceforth whatever the Sydney Morning
Herald and the Argus may say upon the Irish
question shall be to us as authentic as Holy Writ,
Nevermore shall we cavil at their utterances on
this subject. Nevermore shall we insinuate that
their correspondents have coloured their letters
so as to suit a certain class of readers. All this Is
over and done with now. We repent of our
heresy in saokcloth and ashes. We wash our
hands of the Irish and their grievances from this
hour. Mush we could have stood from them;
much we oould have forgiven from a race strug-
gling—as fve, in our benighted ignorance, believed
—for the right to live in their own country and
their means of liviDg. But this to Gubbins-never!
Boy, bring the gall! Now for some bitter lines:-
Ho, Irish miscreants, hear I
Ho, traitors, tremble now!
This crime will cost you dear!
Gubbins, it will—we vow I
Gubbinsl—would heaven you had
A better name for rhyme I
We’ll make them Bklp like mad,
My boy, for that same crime.
Vipers! that bit the hand
That struck them (but in mirth);
We’ll sweep them from the land 1
We’ft wipe them from the earth I
They might—these Irish gnomes—
Have raised seditious shout,
They might have from their homes*
Sworn darkly when turned out.
They might have ee»
Mother, and wife, and cbHdi
Cast out,to die, still we—
We only would have Smiled.
But this—tfcis fills the cup,
When round the Empire’s bounds*
R'ngs the heart-breaking yell—
“ GubbiDs has had to sell
His hunters and his hounds!”
By heavens, this breaks us up!
Yes, ye shall have no voice
In your fate—know this well I
And no more Cromwell’s choice:
‘‘To Connaught—or to lb
For Connaught they require
To hunt in, so they do,
Each gallant Gubbins squire—
So h—-1 must do for you.
Then Britons get up-rise I
For what’s its name and crown ?
And cut and mow them down,
And sweep them in the sea,
“ Gubbins and Glory ” be
Your war-cry—d'—n your eyes!
[.Note by editor. There seems to be a good oppor-
tunity here for Mr. Dailey to cover himself with
fresh glory by offering the services of the Contin
gent for this worthy object. The fact tbatheis
an Irishman himself would, we should hope, hardly
stand in his way when he knew his action was for
the good of England—and Gutibins ]
Mafceita rule to drink Wolfe s Schnapps. It cre-
ates no false appetite, but has an invigorating effect.
When in ueorg e-street (Eastern side), near
King-street, take a position about 30 yards south
ot King-street, face West, and scrutinise the very
banusome building there appi orohing completion,
the’ right about tHCo,,aiid. vareiully examine the
articles shown in the windows 402
ana 404 George-street, and say Whether you tbink
the propriet rs. bray Bros., deserve well of the
general public.*
A man is wise when he knows what he is
drinking. Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relie*
upon as •• pure spir


ticura
<r.h ! n<
'//mm \
w
S2-s.
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
M
V/
Sorofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
lias of Hair, froba infancy to old age, are cured by
CpTictTßA Resolvent, the new Blood .Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Outiouba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba SoAP/and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other ineans absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood ;•
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, And got i
no relief until 1 used the CuTictffjA Remedi-es,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page :
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases. ’
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns Si Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cnticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hafr, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes; Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cnticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
.assachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Guticura, 50 cents per box, large bo-os,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents. Guticura Shav-
ino Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolve ht, si.oo
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ITever Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every Eonse.
H
y*>
M
’‘•‘jUjxhUJ: —
c£> #
m.
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALL NOXIOUS
FLEAS.FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES.^ AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS
FOWLS OR Of HERDS'
ANIMALS
Cl
,i«ii
m
FELTONCRIMWADEHC'?
—
Wanted in
Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
0
oo
w
tier
CJ
CO
£3O
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast "BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
superb with wine, and incomparibl#
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
14 Bttss*x BTR**jy.SYl>saY
YANKEE DOODLE
DO
°ty
so<* s
// ''T-SONSc
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
SB
Cohqde
- .. T O
DBXSOSS i 80N8 p Sydney,
than any factory in the southern hemisphere.
88688 the largest Factory, Manufacture more
ibacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dlxson’s Cut Tobaooos,
F
OR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese GREEN BLIND 3, all sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description.
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING??, VELVETS and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IROS BEDSTE ADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PA BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
yi&iedlenA tTJfecssier.
& ■
AM/HLLI AM BULTARD has the Largest Stock
VV of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters. Services, Ac,
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orohestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, In parcels,
41 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypogniph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
H
OLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and BTO MACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st , London
83F” Purchasers should look t<» the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the address is not 633 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
TO CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
FfIHE Government of Western Australia is pre-
JL pared to receive Tenders up to noon >
Thursday, Ist April, 1886, for the following works
Erection of a line of Telegraph—from Roebourne,
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
with Iron poles. Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen on application at the
Offioe of the Commissioner of Works, Sydney,
New South Wales.
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Works,
Perth, Western Australis,
3rd February 1886.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARD! D AT
COST JPHICJE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goode of any description, never mind bow small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. M'IKCNES & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 FITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
UMBRELLAS
ifiTUDT 100N0UI
kJ *Hd
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasol* re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
_ Ml George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Bta.
Parasol* made to match cos-
tumes Henairs n**fc'<v «xa.
mu*#**
SfePSlllß
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of praotacal ex-
perience. They overcome the vrorst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
paoket. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
BUTTKRFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
street, Kedfern.
Xdisaen O-loss
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
ummnoL
a * YORK STREET,
SYDNEY,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED YOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
Emnmm.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVBBY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


SOCIALS
Viotoria Barracks, Sydney, was quite en
fUe on Thursday last, when the cricket match be-
tween tae Army end Navy was played. A great
humber of ladies attended in the afternoon, with
a good sprinkling of the sterner sex The weather
was everything that could be desired, ardsumaaer
gowns were mostly to be seen. Mrs L&bertouche
donned the only unrelieved bla k, and certainly
looked very well; Miss Labertouche was a con-
trast in white iawu trimmed with torchon lace,
primrose coloured sash, small bonnet, the crown
being composed of a network of pearls, relieved
with velvet bows of the same shade as the sasb,
white lace sunshade; Mrs. Airey looked well in all
white; Mrs. Savage, coffee-coloured silk dotted
witn brown, and trimmed with c'ffee-coloured
lace, small bonnet to match; Miss Fosbery. blue
figured delaine, cream bonnet with golden bird of
paradise; Mrs. Gullett in a very handsome costume
of brown silk mixed with gold and brown
broche ; Mrs. L© Patourel in white, with
dark, red bonnet ; Mrs. Squier, dark cream
muslin; Mrs. Busby, in brown silk, mixed with
brown canvas, with handsome mantle; Miss Busby
looked nice in white nun veiling, figured with
blue, rustic straw bonnet trimmed with sapphire
blue velvet; Miss Denne, in white crepe, figured
with crescents; Miss B. Denne, in china blue
crepe, with velvet collar and cuffs, sailor hat, with
white ribbons; Mrs. Bouverie, in blue cashmere,
trimmed with broche, black and gold hat; the
Misses Gore looked well in white; Mrs. S. A
Joseph, in very handsome black, with a lovely
French bonnet ; Miss Joseph, coffee tambour
muslin bonnet to match, with a bunch of berries
in front; Miss Kingdon looked well in white fall,
white rustic straw hat, with cardinal velvet
ribbons; a white tambour muslin looked beauti-
fully cool; and a deep cream of the same light
material, with bonnet, collar, and cuffs of golden
brown, suited the wearer well; two sisters, in
cream, with sailor bats to match, looked nice.
Tea, coffee, and ices were served in the mess-
room, and the band of the Permanent Force en-
livened the scene at intervals.
v ♦ *
Miss Pitt, daughter of Mr. G. M. Pitt, of
Holbrook, Bt. Leonards, invited about 80 guests to
witness a performance by a company of private
theatricals of the farce, “ Who s Who,” last Mon-
day night, at Myers’ Assembly Booms. The piece
had evidently been well rehearsed, and every
crebit is due to the hostess and her clever co-ad-
jutors for the success of the affair. As soon as the
curtain fell the room was speedily cleared for
dancing, which, as the night was tolerably cool,
was very enjoyable.
* * •
A pretty wedding eventuated at St. John’s
Church, Parramatta, on the 9th inst., when Miss
Alice Bray, of Grahamville was married to Mr. J.
F. Chr, of Normanton, Queensland. The bride
wore a charming gown of ivory satin and lace, and
wreath of orange-blossom, jessamime, and
clematis. The five bridesmaids wore! frocks of
cream Indian muslin with bows of old gold and
pale-blue ribbon, and bonnets of cream tulle.
After the dejeuner the happy pair left by train for
Moss Yale to honeymoon.
* * *
A dance was given by Mr. H. S. Bird at his
residence, Welbeck, Redmyre, on Thursday, the
11th inst., previous to the departure of his son for
Europe. The music, which was orovided by Mrs.
Bentley, was very good, and the floor was perfect.
Chinese lanterns were hung around the veiandahs
and grounds, also in the pretty fernery. Miss
Braham looked very well in black, handsomely
jetted; Mrs. G. Bird, in white with terracotta
sash and gloves, looked nice; Miss Fairfax looked
pretty in pink relieved with white lace; another
pretty pink, which composed of mousseiine
de soie with silk bodice, was worn by Miss Frayer.
Ooly one blue satin was to be seen, but it did not
suit the wearer. A very striking and peculiar cos-
tume was composed of dull cerise silk and gold net,
the draperies and bodice being ornate with bullion
tassels; Miss Price, in heliotrope siik, completely
covered with white lace, 100 ed very pretty. Very
lew blacks were to be seen, but, perhaps, the
pretliest were donned by two of the best dancers
in the room, two sisters. Miss Fairfax chose a
pretty white, relieved by pale-blue bows; Mrs.
Sly looked pretty in pale-pink; two young ladies
in cream nun s veiling and laoe looked cool. A
very pretty little fairy in very pale-pink danced
well. At half-past 1 a special train left the station
to convey the guests to Sydney.
* * *
At the Sydaey Synagogue oa Tuesday last
Mabel, the eldest daughter of Mr. Fred. Conen, of
Tanghen, Darling urst, was wedded to Solomon,
eldest son of Mr. Lewis Cohen, of Murella, Wil-
liam-street. The bridesmaids were Misses Kate
and Kuse Cohen, Dolly Solomon, Rebecca Law-
rence, and a little mite, Dolly Gabriel, The
bride looked particularly handsome in a mag-
nificent white satiD, elaborately brocaded,
aid the bridesmaids kept her in counten-
ance by the beauty of their costumes and
faces. The sisters of the bride, and little Dolly
Gabriel were in all-white. The mother of the
bride, Mrs. F Cohen, was attired in a rich brocade
velvet, aud the bridegroom’s mother wore a green
brocade of great beauty Babbi Davis officiated.
Honeymoon up the mountains.
* * *
Last Thursday, March 11, All Saints’
Cnurcb, Petersham, was toe scene of a very pretty
wedding, when Miss Ada Cubitt, second daughter
of Alderman Cubitt, of Crownthorpe, Stanmore,
was united to Mr, Greviile J. Lswis. The bride s
dress was of rich ivory satin, the front of the
skirt draped with soft lace and tulle, caught up
with sprays of orange blossom, the long train
being trimmed with sprays of same; wreath of
orange and myrtle blossom, with long tulle veil,
completed a most charming and effective costume.
The bride carried a very large bouquet, and her
only ornament was a very handsome gold bracelet
set with diamonds and rubies, the gift of the
bridegroom. The bridesmaids, four in number,
were Mieses Cubitt, Kennedy. M’Kenzle and Fer-
guson, and wore ivory flowered muslins, two with
panda and vests of eau de vie satin, and two with
surimp pink. All wore little mob bonnets, com-
posed of net and lace, with a ruching of satin to
match their dresses, with iace striDgs tied
under the ohin, high tan gloves, and carried
large bouquets, given by the bridegroom
The ceremony was performed by the Kev.
J. D. Langley, incumbent of St. Phillips’.
The chancel was decorated with large arches,
festoons, and wreaths of evergreens and white
flowers, which had a charming effect. Mrs.Cubitt's
dress was a combination of dark brown satin
and broche of a lighter shade, bonnet of pale pink
tulle, with feathers. Amongst the guests some
very handsome costumes were noticeable. One
lady wore a dark green Ottoman velvet trimmed
with deep lace, embroidered with gold; another
wore a handsome black silk trimmed with rich
black laoe of jet ornaments, black straw bonnet
trimmed with black velvet and pale pink feathers.
The church wan crowded with interested specta-
tors, who showered the bride and bridegroom
with rice and flowers as they walked down the
aisle. The bridal patty retired to Crownthorpe.
where breakfast was laid. The bride’s travelling
dress was of ficelle canvas trimmed with shot-pink
siik, wnite net bonnet, witn blaok velvet bows and
strings.
“ Health Is wealth.” Therefore everybody who
drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps is wealthy, because it
gives health.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— Things socially are looking
just a trifle livelier since last I wrote. You know
when we arrive at the very end of a season, be it
summer or winter, we have a way of surfeiting
ourselves with pleasures peculiar to the time of
year, just at the last moment, as if we were sorry
we were about to give them up for fresh enjoy-
ments. I suppose
“We do not know how much we love until we
come to leave.”
Eh ? So, then, we are having garden parties,
ericket matches, and various other kind of
matches almost every day, till I begin to think
that, unless we determinedly make up our minds
to repose for a few weeks before the winter season
commences, there will be nothing left of us but a
bag of bones, which won’t facilitate conquests,
will it ? Whenever Lady CariDgton has breathing
time allowed her between her multitudinous
social duties, she betakes herself to Moss Yale to
get cool, rest, and see her babies, I strongly* sus-
peet, however, that the latter prove the strongest
magnets. I very much wanted to go to the Moss
Yale Show, but our desires, and what is possible to
us are two very different things, so I had to
refuse a very pressing invitation and be dubbed
“ unsociable ” and “ disagreeable,” when all the
time I longed to go. But it’s quite in the order of
things in this funny world of ours to be cruelly
censured when all the time one is practising an
act of the utmost self-denial, have you not found
it so ? I told you nothing of the Liedertafel con-
cert in my last, which was, I own, very remiss, and
now, of course, you have gleaned all you want to
know from other sources. Between ourselves,
however, I hardly think the affair deserved the
high encomiums it receivedlfrom nearly all sides,
for, taking it aitogether, what did it amount to?
The choruses were sung well it’s true, but the
orchestral selections were poorly rendered, Mrs.
Riley’s singing disappointing, the trombone solo
quite unworthy, and Mr. Hallewell’s solo, “ The
Village Blacksmith,” grows just a trifle mono-
tonous. Then, of course, as the latter gentleman
was run in just at the last moment as a substitute
for Mr. Harry Woods, who was suffering from a
cold, I dare say he chose a song which was safe to
please the many, and which he was certain of re-
membering without his music, then, as a matter
of course, •* Simon ” followed as an encore. Mr.
Pier sang his solo pleasantly, rather. So much for
the music. It appears to me that Mr. Delaney,
though a first-rate musician, is too nervous to make
a good conductor. Little Boodles said of him
“ When any of us make a mistake, Delaney looks
awfully scared, but Vogrich used to make us
look scared if we made a slip, and that’s just the
difference between the two men.” Rather neat,
wasn’t it?
The officers from the German squadron were in-
vited to the concert, and were treated anything
but courteously, in that there were no seats for
them when they arrived. Their massive forms
towered above all tne other men present, and
they were quite a feature of the concert. Lord
Carington, seeing their plight, sent an aide to in-
vite them to join his party, but what sort of
management was that which left invited guests
and strangers withal to fight for seats at a Lieder-
taffcl concert? At the same time, the society
transgressed its rules and reserved seats for a few
favoured ones, who hadn't any more claim to the
consideration than the other 3000 present. Old and
valued members of the society are crying out at
thisp eoe of injustice, and are so hurt about it
that I don't think they intend to let the nutter
drop until they have made quite certain that the
like will not occur again. “First come, first
served,” has always been the rule at these con-
certs, but if things are to be changed, the
society should at least acquaint the public
with their intentions. One man s subscription fee
is worth as much as another’s, and he should be
able to claim exactly the same privileges. It
seemed like old times, however, to see Mr. tiuem r-
bein’s n*me down as accompanist, and Mr. Harry
Woods, as soloist, but I snouid have to tear my
conscience right up by the roots if I told you as
the morning papers did that it was a most excel-
lent concert and well wortny of the Society. I
wish—oh, how I wish-I hadn’t a conscience, for
it’s lar nicer to say pleasant things than the re-
verse—but there, that s enough.
We had begun to thiak it had forgotten how to
ram till last Saturday, the day set aside for the
picnic given to the German officers by the Mini -
ters, when we were greeted with as dismal and
damp a day as you can well imagine. I never
dreamed anybody would be mad enough to go up
the mountains, of ali places, in such a drizzle;
but, sure enough, about 50 hardy pleasure-seekers
dragged themselves from their cosy beds at 7
o clock in the morning and met at the Kedfern
station with “ blue cold nose and wrinkled brow,”
and most of them who were really weather-wise,
provided with overcoats and ulsters, tne
sight of which were quite enough to depress
one's spirits for the day. But still there
was not a little fun squeezed out of the train
journey, and had the German strangers been able
to see anything of the grand mountain scenery as
they went up, it would have been quite worth
their white rising early that morning, but you
know what the Blue Mountains look like on a wet
day, don t you, dear ? The sun came out grudg-
ingly for a little while on the return trip, which
was extremely tantalising, as it just gave every-
body a taste of what mignt have baen had the day
been other than what it was. Admiral Knorr
made himself very popular, and gave a neat little
speech. Somebody said his broken English was
rather too much so, but for my part, I prefer
broken English to cracked ditto. There is gener-
ally a good deal of the latter spoken at these
gatherings in Sydney.
You need not scoff so much about my reluct-
ance, to sit down to a table when the company
numbers 13, and the two Instances I have already
given you of the unfortunate cousequenoes of so
doing in our own household are not, as you would
persuade me, mere acciuents. Now, do not try to
talk me out of this-well, call it whim if you like
—but I have noticed that everybody has his or her
pet superstition, and the fatal number of 13 is
mine. You, I know, would almost sooner die tuan
carry a peacock-feather fan or have your dress
trimmed with the pretty peaoock trimming, whicn
feather, you protest, is so unlucky, and have I
not respected your—well, whim—by refraining
from sending you either fan or trimming! Cer-
tainly 1 have, so now leave me alone about the
baker’s dozen and listen to this, please. Boor King
AUOiiso visited Arauguez last summer and sat
down to diue In the oatace in the company of 12
other persons. Tne King quickiy observed the
latal number, but whilst deeply superstitious
about it, was too proud to fuss, and laughingly
affected to treat the matter as a jest and asked to
have a list of the names of the company, so that
he might know if anyone should die within the
year. Twelve of the guests still live, but the
thirteenth was King Alfonso. There, does that
shake you at all ?
I believe the baseballers are going to play a
match here soon, which will be quite a change
from cricket. Ned speaks rather contemptuously
of the game—says it is milk-soppy. I fancy he
means there is little danger in it. and, you know,
an Englishman attaches little importance to a
sport which doesn't savour of broken limbs,
abraded contusions, and that sort of thing. Very
savage of them, isn’t it? but we call it manly
and like it; as much as we dis-l ike seeing men
carry fans. One eizzlieg hot day last week I met
two dudes in George-otreet carrying a large palm-
leaf fan, and the sight was so revolting that I felt
as if I could have shaken them; and yet there is
no reason on earth why men should not cool them-
selves as well as women if they wish it, is there ?
I suppose it is simply this, that we have been
brought up in the belief that men are quite above
feeling the discomfort of heat, hunger, fatigue,
bullets, and cric&et balls, so it is a bit of a shock to
us when we see them carr>ing fans like women.
It used to jrritate me to see the Frenchmen playing
their favourite game of “ catchers.” They take a
large soft indiarubber ball and throw it to each
other to catch, and those who never miss are the
best players. It seemed so utterly absurd to see
big men devoting their time to so innocent and
uneventful a pastime as this At all events, base
ball cannot be so ridiculously undangerous, but I
shall Dot be able to give you my true impressions
until I have seen the match, so you just wait.
The German officers gave a nice dance on Mon-
day afternoon on board the warship Gneisenau,
which was just as pleasant as it is possible for a
day-time dance to be. The Nelson and Swinger
are both in port again, and bow really I think this
is all I have time to tell you in this. Just think of
it! Last week when I wrote to you we were
frizzling with the heat, and now, to-day, I write in
front of a cosy Are.
Ever your loving
MAB.
JACK’S ABOUT.
Sailors and their adventures have ever been a
favourite subject with poets, song writers, and
novelists. Diddin, Campbell, Marryat, Scott, Coo-
per, Russell, and Hannay have depicted Jack to us
in such fascinating form that we have come to sur-
round him with a halo of romance, and endow him
with every virtue of heroism and chivalry. Nor
are we wholly un justified in doing this. The sailor
take him alt in all, is a line fellow —simple, loyal,
brave, and honest, and we should never permit
our judgment of his character to be warped by
occasional illustrations of exceptional vices. His
occupation is of a kind to inspire in the dullest and
most uncultured nature that awe and reverence
for the Power by whom the ocean is ruled. He
daily realises the fact that but one plank rests
between him and eternity. He is constantly re-
minded that his skill and strength are but as a
babe’s when the Lord of storm and Ruler of the
winds puts forth His hand. Subjected to these
impressions, and necessarily prompted to high
thought iand humble trust, the sailor must be in a
bad case indeed who is an irredeemable scoundrel.
Perhaps the best evidence of his nobility of nature
isgiveain his ready susceptibility to refined in-
fluences. Take Ja.k from the forecastle, and give
him a command, and probably no other man, even
with superior advantages, so rapidly developes in to
the frank and cordial gentleman, who accepts his
position of host to his pas<engers as confidently
and easily as any person of truth and position.
In taking these facts into consideration, we must
remember that the sailor’s life is hard indeed ; not
only has he to encounter peril to life, but the con-
ditions of his occupation are such as lay tae seeds
of disease in many forms. Subjected to cold and
heat, soaked through one day, grilled the next, lay-
ing out on a yard to gather in a sail frozen to ttie
stiffness of a deal board, or panting in a hot fore-
castle, and praying fora wind, as his ship roils in
the doldrums in equatorial seas—his constitution
is subjected to extraordinary strain and trial. At
this moment, in hospitals all over the world, poor
Jack lies stricken down by fever, kidney and liver
complaints, rheumatism, ague, and shattered
bones. Yet his hope aud confidence are inexhaus-
tible, and so far as moral influence is concerned, in
fighting sickness, he is possessed of exceptional
powers of resistance.
But powerful as the will may be, in crushing
back the assault of disease, it is not enough, l 1
asserts the action of medicines, but it cannct
accomplish a cure withont their aid. As an
illustration we find Captain John Balfour, of
Latrobe Terrace, West Geelong, thus testifying to
the value of a remedial agent. The Captain says:
“ HaviDg tried maoy different medicines for liver
and kidney disorders, I must s.o.y I know of none t»
eoual Warner s safe cure and safe pills. I have
recommended them on all hands, and will continue
to do so.” Thisisa pretty conclusive testimony
to the wisdom of restoring to the use of a sptciiio
whose reputation and virtues have been established
by long and exhaustive experience. Many a sailor,
in every part of the world, could this day endoise
with ready gratitude the statement just quoted.
And this is a reflection which rises superior to any
sordid commercial question. It is doubtless plea-
sant to mane money; but the gratification is
tenfold, and its influence become purifled and
ennobled, when it is charged with the knowledge
that thousands of the human race have been re-
lieved and made happy by the pioces r .
A problem: why people drink any other spirit
when they can obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ayer ti Uathabtio Pills correct irregular-
ities of the bowels, stimulate the appet.te and
digestion, and by their prompt and thorough
action give tone and vigour to the whole physical
economy.
Ask for Wolfe’s ScHNArps and be sure you
purchase the genuine article. Beware of imita-
tions.
Here is Bummer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, deltzer,Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
Crated Water and Cordial Manufaeturers, 403 Pitt-
Btreet. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Of all tonics, diuretics, and nervines, Wolfe’s
Ichnapps is the safest and best. Be sure you
ibtain Wolfe’s.
Mb. Di Coukot Browni (late Deputy
Jhairman of the Mining Board of New Bou*h
Vales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
' Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual ol
dinerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
md Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
S Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
It is astonishing the favour in whioh
Wolfe's Schnapps is held—We suppose because
it is a flrst-olass article.
Persons who labour under the impression
that the youth of Australia have no taste for
anything except sport, flll their heads with a great
mistake indeed. Some of Our Boys search as
earnestly in the field of science as a goat does in a
cook-shop dust-bin, and ycung Master Edison
Huxley JiDks, of Balmain, is a very fair sample of
this species. Noticing that his soup was largely
impregnated with flies of late, he sat down in a
cool spot, and woolled his head about until he dis-
covered a remedy for the evil in a new style of
fly-paper, which he manufactures out of a blot-
ting sheet covered with dynamite, glue and
treacle. The foolish flies being attracted by the
treacle, alight alight for a picnic, and are held fast
by the glue. Should any get away, they at once
begin to kick themselves for joy, when the first
crack causes the dynamite adbering to their feet
to explode, and the careful manner in which they
are then distributed to the tour corners of the
globe saves their friends the expenses of a funeral.
Inventions like this deserve a suitable reward, and
we are plased to say Master Jinks has received hia
in the shape of a Christmas suit from Summerfleld
and Co., 335 and 337 Pitt-street.*
j Re-establish and restore the body by the per-
sistent use of Wolf e’s Schnapps.
JIU*NI»U*B_»MOW BOOMS.
BKADLBY, NEWTON, And LAMB.
O’Connell and Spifov streets. Sydney
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDB, ~~Z^i
chairs, Labor assortment.
BRA WING-BOOM BUITEB, In feXQTJlsrri
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy nt
lnapeetlon. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
D'
WALL CABINETS for Choice China. &n
VERY BLEGANT, just received. Brkdtev
Newton, and Lamb. ey ’
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES, Brad fey, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes forsinvl*
rooms. Grtat variety BRADLEY, NEWTon
and LAMB, Spring and Q’CohneU streets, Sydney
B
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early En«riinh
Designs).-WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
ominor nrlaoa offo nVi nr! • PTHTMTOTI A T MYriJ*
with swing glass attached
BOARD, and 3 CANE
BRADLEY
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from IoT
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. Cd.; Washstands from 12s. f
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s*’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards!
from A 3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; WritimJ
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
AjfQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed so ana
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for eash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb-
h
m
i
J
mm.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashio a
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with 81 Is
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
gj.ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or:Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
0 RAWING- ROOM CABINETS.— Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
DRAW G-ROOM FURNITURE.-The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
IP ANISE MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
oloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
dew in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
elicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties m bedroom ectr-
NITORE, full suites. inSATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection. ■ „ ,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-flt.
IiIOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 fold) for the Draw
O ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley
fewton, and Lamb.
r\ARDEN SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
JT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAB-
iEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atreet.
kATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 205.; and
Lftj large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
£tra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
urniture Warehousemen. Spring & O’ConnCii sts_.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for dubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c. -
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented,
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will m
It is simple, yet ingenious in it#
- The above
the occupant. __ wL _ .
construction; works automatically. _
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but iittie
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the oeoupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandan.
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desire®.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in tmcKneM
when fc ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2a. 6d. extra. „ a
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
, NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell BtS.
C
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets. .
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS— Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6. ,
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, ana
Lamb. _
COMMODE CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN ?
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb*
JAPA NESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6/6; 8 x 8,,9/-; 9x o,
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 13 x 8,14/6; 13 x 10, 5/6,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
375. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring an “
O Connell streets.
Furniture-tee largest stock in thß
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB.
1 Spring.and O'Connell streets.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
n anew arrival, with somewhat of
„ii«h record, beat M’Caffory best two falls
» n J’JfflMtle on Saturday. It will be remembered
at weeks ago Cansdell threw the Mao. in
that a* l looms M’Caffery may be-we don’t say
Foley s ru a tj t tle game, but if he keeps at it
he muscular reputation will most likely
too long ra _„ e( j a man who talks of throwing
Victor and Dinnie should not be wiped out every
time- „ m m
iMiev is in treaty with Dempsey and
Amerioan knoekers-out, one or both
C fwhom may be expected here at the beginning
of winter. g * »
rrhfl Balmain R.C. annual regatta is due
„ Saturday, the 20ih inst. There should be some
for .traces, especially as owing to the limited
her of boats In possession of the club, the
crews entered for two of the races have
Ki submitted to preliminary heats with a view
? e survival of the fittest for Saturday s test-
rfrinar test. Lord Carington is expected, and the
Waterview is to be utilised to follow the races.
* » ws
The Sir Joseph Banks handioappers have
. out ud lately by the Murtoad Mudslinger
3 t h e Y'arrawalla Star,;lor their work in
®“ neo tlon with the recent running. They should
?a?e a lesson from the Bermagui people. A cor-
rianondent writes“ I nominated for the Boxing
rnv handicap as 50 years of age, married, nine
Children Performance: ‘Ran once in 1862,beaten
£“ 43 vards.’ Of course I had no intention of ac-
'-.Ltimr but entered to assist the sport. When the
handicap came out I had nine yards in 150; two
vnnng fellows were two yards In front of me
and three-behind me. I discovered their
““stem subsequently. Beginning with the oldest,
thev place him on soratch and work downwards,
a vard at a time, till they get through the men,
when the youngest and smartest are so far ahead
nf the scratch man that he cannot see them with
a telescope. In the Veterans’ Handicap, the same
dav a white-headed old blackfellow was scratch,
four old men on the 4yds mark, and a man 37
t ears of age on the 6yds. He won. This is a Bar-
magui mystery, and though I have cleared it up. I
oannot regard it as a scientific system of handi-
oapping.” , * *
The Melbourne Sportsman's “Vigilant”
tipster, speaking of Malua’s defeat on Newmarket
day, waxed sarcastic at the expense of the griev-
ing ones who backed the famous nag, and went on
to ridicule the notion which some people possess
that, because a horse wins a big event once In his
career, he is worthy of any amount of confidence
ever after. “ A prad blossoms once in a lifetime,
not yearly,” said the oracle. This reads very well,
and “ Vigilant ” was proud until Malua took It
into his equine cranium to win the Australian Cup
in the fastest time on record. Then the prophet
bade all his friends adieu, and went and broke the
Pkdge. + * * •
It begins to look as though the Israelite
coup, so long anticipated by the racing nubile,
would never come off. Ever sinoe the "Jew’s”
sensational win at Fiemington, in the spring of
1888, he has been looked on as a " rod In- pickle ”
for one of the big handicaps. However, the
horse’s three latest performances make it appear
that he is not now—whatever he might once have
been-so dangerous as many people'imagined.
One thing is certain, Mr. Crozier’s handsome nag
was as fit as a fiddle at Fiemington, and presum-
ably his best form was shewn.
* * *
The two most notable features of the la,te
V.S.C. meeting were Malua and the deaf, dumb,
and blind bookmaker. There is something weird
and wonderful about the way In which this
“book” does business. First of all bis clerk
takes hold of his hands and plays a sort of tuue
upon the fingers. Then the governor rattles off a
lively waltz upon his own fingers. That means,
"seewhether 6to 4 will fetch ’em.” Then the
clerk yells out, issues tickets to any stray cus-
tomers, and duly records each transaction in the
book, while the head of the firm stands meekly at
his side waiting to be enlightened as to whether
anything is goiog op. It is an uncanny spectacle
altogether. Yet, perhaps, the d„ d. and b. book-
maker has a better head for figures and a better
memory for performances than any other man in
the ring. Perhaps, too, he has a profound faith In
the morality of the turf. At any rate, he can
never see a horse pulled.
* * *
The haildmapping of certain horses at the
V.R.C. meetings has been commented on rather
unfavourably. The weight allotted to Lesbiain
the Autumn Handieap on “ Champion ” day was
so favourable that even .the most amateur of
paokers had no difficulty in spotting the mare as
the pick of the basket. And this is not the only
time that Lesbla has been “thrown Into” nice
nttle stakes On the other hand, Mozart was
nandicapped at least a stone above his form in one
9* two events, and his owner struck him out
directly the weights appeared.
* * *
Joseph O’Brien, the Victorian long-dis-
pedt strian, was.born at Kyneton, Victoria,
May, 1858. He stands 6tt. 9m., and weighs,
when in condition, about 13$ib. He commenced
pedestrian career on the 14 h of April, 1879,
JIPfJJ he finished second for a half-mile race,
wa ? run *t Woodend. At Kyneton, on
rwVvT ay .', be won the half-mile race from soratch;
o ran Harrison a mate a for £5O at half
a mile, and won easily. BoxlDg Day: Won the
Sirt lH»ri. B w llarat ’ in * mln - 388ec ” with 55 yds.
3Uec race at Ararat in 4esin.
Roberfji W if lossJ^ds* 1 o 55 J^ ds * Start; October 27th, ran
easlivi™ °i f half mile for £lOO, and won
race v? 59 *>c; November 9th, won mile
start Melbourne, In 4min. 255e0., with 25 yds.
i °^ ln k Day: Won Ballarat mile race from
aic “ l®in. 35sec. 1881: Divided Ist and 2nd
prizes with Beydon in handieap of 100, 300, and
440 yds. Melbourne: Started for mile race ffl-
Warehousemen’s Cricket Ground on Easter Mon-
day, but did not get placed. April 19th: Won-
one-hour go-as-you-please, Melbourne, cover-
ing nearly 10 miles, and defeating O Con-
nor easily. November 9th : Kan second
for mile race, Castlemaine, from soratch. Box-
ing Day: Won mile race, Ballarat, from scratch
in 4min, 18%sec. new Year’s Day, 1882: Won two
hours’ go-as-you-ple. se. Geelong, beating Marshall
and other good men, and covering nearly 19 miles.
Won mile race at Dunedin, N.Z., on 18th Feb., beat-
ing Burk, the NZ, champion; same day, won the
five mile race eaßily iu 28 <in. 48sec., Burk only
finishing third. March 7th: Won mile race at
Timaru in 4mia. 31sne ; same day, won the live
mile race easily ie. 27tain. ss:c. March 4th: Won
mile race at Christchurch from scratch in 4mia.
28sec. March 17th: W<m mile race at Wellington
from scratch in 4mio. 33iec.: same day won the
10 mile race easily in 56mm 31oec. Aprii2.d: Won
the mite race at Auokihihl in 4min 23secs.; also
won the 10 mile tace ins7^min, t and fl is el third
for the haif-miie, all from scratch Easter Mon-
day: Won mile race, Auckland, in 4mtn. 33- c.:
also won five mile race in 26mm l4leo Ai»rii 17th:
Won mile race, Auckland in 4min.. 29)4»«o.; amo
won quarter Hoiiie in 51J4iec, with 12yds start
May 6tn: Undertook to run 75 miles iu 12 nours,
but failed in the last, having to retire through
illness, after c vering 66J4 mil-a in 11 hours.
Boxing Day : Ran second for 600yds. handicap,
Baiiarat, from soratch, time 73J4*ec., beaten by a
yard: same day won the half-hours gu-as-you-
please, covering 534 miles, and winning easily.
New Year’s Day, 1883 : Won mile race, Castle-
maine, from soratch, in 4min. 32sec. March 17th :
Won mile race, Melbourne, in 4min. 39J45e0., win-
ning easily. Easter Monday : Won half-mile race,
Castlemaine, from scratch, in 2min. November
9th : Ran second for half-mile race, Castlemaine.
April 19th: Won mile race, quarter-mile race, and
half-hour go-as-you-please, fat Williamstown.
October 27th: Won half-mile race at Coburg, from
scratch. October 31st: Won half-mile race at
Miners’ sports, Sandhurst, from scratch, in 2miu.
boxing Day : Won mile race, Ballarat, in 4min.
27aeo. New Year’s Day, 1884: Ran second for mile
race, Melbourne. March Ist: Won Sheffield Han-
dieap. Baynton, with syds. start; same day, won
the 15 minutes go-as-you-please, covering over
three miles. March 17ch: Ran exhibition 10
mile race in Melbourne, in 65min- Boxing Day:
Won|milerace, Inglewood, from scratch, 1885: Won
mile race, Melbourne, from scratch; time, 4min.
403ee Raster Monday: Ran Backhouse, of Begs,
of N S.W., for £2OO and won easily. November
6th: Ran Malone, of Bydney, half-mile for £lOO
aside, and was beaten easily. December stn: Ran
Livingstone three distances of three miles, five
miles, and seven miles, and won the match easily.
Boxing Day: Ran second for the half-mile race,
third for mile race, and won the half-hour go as-
you-please, Horsham. Started for five-mile race,
Melbourne, on New Year’s Day. but retired after
covering two miles. Won baif-hour go-as-you-
please, and ran second for the haif-mile, Dayies-
ford, January 12. February 20th: Ran Malone a
second match of 1000yds., half-mile, and three-
quarters, and was again defeated Ignominiously.
It will be seen by tne above performances that
O’Brien is a good long-distance pedestrian, and
probably no man in Australian can beat him over
the mile course. He is engaged to run at Carcoar,
on the Bth inst. in the mile race, and will not
leave for Victoria for another month.
FOLLY’S SYDNtY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. Fot
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
Department of Publlo Works.
Sydney, March 16, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see GovaBNMBNT Gazkttb, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly oomplled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Katun of TforJU and Suppllts
I Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Erection of Shed and Widening
Approach, South Woodburn
Wharf, Richmond River
Supply and Erection of Barbed-
wire Fencing at Prospect
Reservoir . „ .
Erection of Caretakers Cot-
tages at theßeservoirs, Hun-
ter River district Water Supply
Erection of Storeroom, New-
castle Lockup
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Tinonee
Additions, &c„ to Bathing-house
Hospital for Insane, Parra-
matta
Construction of Wharf, Bal-
ranald _ , .
Purchase of ight to Post Ad-
vertisements in the Tramway
Waiting-rooms
Lease of Wentworth Ferry from
the Ist April to the 31st De-
cember, 1886
Tuesday,
March 33,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection o' Post and Telegraph-
office, Berrima
Erection of new Lockup, Bowral
Erection of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, &c., Courthouse,
Young
Additions, &o„ to Baths, Hospi-
tal for the Insane, Gladesville.
Overbridge in Guinea-street,
Albury, Great Southern Rail-
way
Construction of Whprf, Field of
Mars, Lane Cove River
Ereotion of Covered Way, Bene-
volent Asylum. Parramatta
Supply of 36 Railway Ticket
Cases
Supply of Hardwood, Colonial
Pine, Oregon, Baltic, &0., Hun-
ter River District, during 1886
Alterations, &c.. Police Build-
ings and Lockup, Cootamun-
dra
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
stum
Erection of Lighthouse and
Lightkeeper’s Cottage, Kiama
Tuesday.
March 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
April 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
April 13.
at 11 o’elook.
Tuesday,
Auril 2T,
at 11 o’clock.
JACOB GARRARD.
GOMPA6NONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STEEBT, SYDNEY.
fpHB oideat and leading Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Major
■*>, Municipal Council of Sydt ey, the A.J.C., City Club, sc., &c. . . . ..
™he Dinmg Saloons for Ladies wad Gentlemen are the Finbst, Coollbst, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MEND DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List,
own ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time 8 a.rn. to 9 p.m. Select yeui
and see it grilled in the room. This 1* on® of the acquisitions or
1 W6Q t* Inspection invited, ef. w. YOU* Mwr»s*® , «,
Ckrea-t -Attraction I
G-xea/fc -Attraction. I
G-reat -Attraction I
TAB NEW BURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE.
Jones, Lawson Bros, anti Co*,
Practical Cabinet Makers and Upholsterers,
39 GA TL EriEAGH- S THtEt,
Near Hunter-street.
The large and spacious warehouse is close to the Hunter-street Tram-station.
THE SHOW-ROOMS ARE LARGE AND WELL LIGHTED.
THE STOCK COMPRISES
Cabinet and Upholstered Furniture,
Bedsteads and Bedding,
Brussels’ Carpets, Wilton Carpets,
Tapestry Carpels, Linoleums,
Floorcloths, Curtains,
and Table Covers.
11l Good: k Marked is Fltie Figures.
i' *
AT
LOWEST CASH PRICES.
VISIT
THE NEW FURNITURE and CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
(Near Hunter-street).
HORDERN’S
ON THB
Briclcfiel<3. Sill-
-01 STAY AKD COSSLT DMTMEIT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree of Charge.
/(?
C D
UO
&M 455
r\
4
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 6s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS. 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and earelul attention.


FERERS
H. W. COUr£R
(Late of Crown-street),
who has cured so many remarkable cases of Bad
Skin and Constitutional Diseases, may now
oe consulted at 20 OXFORD-STREET. Advice
Gratis. ALL DISEASES TREATED.
H. W. C. will guarantee to cure the most obstinate
cases of constitutional diseases.
RELIABLE TESTIMONY - .
To Mr. Cooper.
After many years’ extreme suffering from bad
legs, and failure of various treatments. I am
happy to certify that under your care for 10 weeks
I am perfectly cured, and 1 strongly recommend
anyone afflicted with skin disease to avail them-
selves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge,
Commercial Hotel, King-street.
To Mr. Cooper, Medicated Vapour Baths.
I beg to testify to the curative powers of your
Baths for the sake of others who may be suffering
from causes similar to my own. For about two
years I suffered with bad legs. I censulted our
best medical practitioners and tried many adver-
tised remedies, but all to no purpose, and I re-
solved to see you, but at first I must tell you I
doubted if you could effect a cure, but after being
under your treatment a week I was convince d,
and in a little over a month I was cured, which I
think rather remarkable after being so long under
our best doctors, under whose care I grew worse.
I shall strongly recommend any one I know to you.
R. F. Eastway, East way Bros , George-street.
Inspection of other testimonials is respectfully
invited.
N.B.—MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS,
20 Or ford-street, near Hyde Park.
IHOODwomYICOURo*
isenckoflif:
' T*
[eoWyimaiiiDieremi
(bite JjebiLi;
for
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to these that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into tryiDg some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopelesi invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space «f Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Knlwying Lifi.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
Tke directions are v?ry simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials
In cases at 12s , or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2a. 6d, extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed ssourely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
Jl-URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS„ SCALD 3, &e- and
lllkeh internally cures DIARRHCE A,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other \ totems aches
Uid pains.
Price, S/- Sold EverywSteire,
S= E. MOULTON, sole profit :or„
MELBOUENI, b'-DNEY,
PAINT
LJ
it '
QC
<
Lul
O
(E =
<
I
TRA.DE MARK-“ tonic NERVINE.”
A3al'h, OisrtTAlN, &SPEEDV ULUXisior Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all oompl&lnt*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Deoline, Loss of Vital Power,
&©. By its tonic md soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’# TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and give*! vigour t* the whole system
Price, io. or SPs. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTESHB Registered
Chemists. 104-6 Marfc%t-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
PAUL LIEBE
Richly J^cqmmenuh
BY THE MEDICAL
IFaculty,
Min
w
tlFjfi o
\IiRV
'NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
'Stherkindsoffood ARE
REJECTED. ATALLCHf MIST SIM
■ lOfe* iO'ozBOTTL
G ARNOLD .BBRip.CE
m
BSBI
69.5%;
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Chekiiy Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrotheb,”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
® Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“ While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
.saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family fer several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
” I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.’*
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
‘‘l cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
prepared by «
Dr.vKC.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
.' Sold by all Druggists. 3^
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG ft CO„
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OP
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 lIUniT MS!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
I Carriage paid by mall all over the eolonlea
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£S LADY’S BALK.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
* pairs Drawers
* Night-gowns
* Ladies r Camisoles
* Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longeloth. apd
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered Instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALE.
25 yds- Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBS.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 8 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aocouohements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of *6.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
aided over by a lady of great experience, and Bhali
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
Brices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
! applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £6 Balog of Drapery
' v ‘ .’.
I 5:: :7 V
, ,_-u.;; .‘L‘Z- T ‘
V )r-r' '-,~ ; ’u '
1' «1% m)" ‘.
‘ftgiméaﬂﬂm.," ‘ , .f
: L, 3- - - 1
an?" "m “Gr, ' 1“".
an 'u!"‘i'é-w ‘ H “r
‘ ‘ 4 . t\
A $3.}; \
Gravw' , '9»
y . 1a ”,9
w ' u‘v‘ . u .‘ ‘ . ‘
» (Mums-3 ‘ H
my; M {15's. W ’)
"I“.hnjv ‘. _ .y.)
W" z»: a o a l ‘ ‘ \KM- ‘\
W 9‘3r‘74‘1QL" w :1. Ufa"; 4 .m- L
‘ikésm’f'h )3. , 4‘ '
"W”"iS ﬂ. 5“" 3- V
Vlw‘vsﬁi xxx-r v "
.sx 2‘.— :.§§<\-s' \
ROWLANDS' ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as effloacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Howlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragraat toilet powder, and
has lately been mueh improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D , F.C.S , &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suites for f-ir or golden-haired children and per-
sons Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Ei/liot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STRBET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED BTATEB OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained oa
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CURATIVE BELTS,
ELECTRICITY,
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adonti*
the safe and never- failing remedy of the new mo?
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied tn a
human system by wearing the MAGNETrnir
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO S genuine ErWp
TRTC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality
failing health. It is an unvarying sucoess in
cure end alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestw
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, OonstinS'
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailment
consequent upon liviDg in a semi-tropical climatl 1
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alnn»
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of itt?
electricity. This mode of treatment is by fay +lio
most perfect and successful method yet discovert
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to tfm
body the continuous or imperceptible current nf
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or u«n
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to th»
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and
tain their full power for a considerable period
But to avoid any disappointment by their possihid
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliano«»
up to their original strength, we undertako to re
charge any of our appliances at the expiration nt
twelve months, free of eost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’B ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical efi mates, of superior mate,
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are verv
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s. In order
ing size of waist outtide first garment is required'
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agenov'
price 20a. All who have a tendency to weak iunw
should adopt this treatment before It Is top late
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con!
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Cans
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10s. Insoles— whioh a’re
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot!
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless Unit*,
tions of our goods, as the great sucoess attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in.
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the publio. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. 8. SfIEILD A CO.,
158 Plft-straef,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
fJIO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrami,
■ and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
on moderate
literary man of long experience,
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office,
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder. ,
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OB
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce It the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper;" and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,*’ with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than suoh
mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, htepiny for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable .sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break
fasts. Adopted as a medical Comfort In the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6c?., 3s , ss. 6d., die.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
S6RWBITZEB & CO., 10 AD&M-STBEBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver OMMilk
' PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medidal Profession throughout the world as being -
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain *u flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.'
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver'Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil, and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers & Nurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect mod. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk over made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, fleshy and bon.6, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed "lUpon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked : by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK'S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient fov use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. (
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.


SUPPLEMENT TO “THE BULLETIN,” SYDNEY, 20TH MARCK, 1886.
rematolijgPffiiSE^his a&rU<igig|
-~~^=s
1 Hi 3 ancestors crowed the Irish
aeaand with t&ouaands of
at'lVewry Soaool.
13 And here he may be seen occupying tbe most
exalte 1 position to tba gift of Her Most Gracious
only 15 years or age, wviooed^ wtist, tf
5. Hia-taollo&tioQ, at all aveati led aid
NM~ __
" PE2REEL-5.51::555535;55:255512325 ,Eﬁéi‘!’ m
_— iﬁﬁ _‘ ___ .:
:'.==::::=* =25" __
“'A *H—éA , , ,
U. From Parliament he raoidly rose
§§|§|lS^sidenov of the Sydney Lieder-
in the quaiat uaOadiosas-Uiis euy of
Exeter.
*UQg 4 comf c a aoDR aaeD, ri rt bert | fte d 00( " u110 "^
9. This, how-
ever, did not
prevent his be-
oocning a nigger.
minatrel (so says
whether as bones
fHH|gmbo
haye never been able
S. Once when “ down V- ,
on his luok ** he had serious thought* of be
oomiag a oomlo artist, not twiog able to ttuuk
of anything funny was ail that saved Dun.
bourne, oaugbt tne gold^ferer*
SIR PATRICK’S DAY.




gisKKfi!
3°of E sL«? A ? STOUT.—This favourite brand
of t^? u » selected with great care from tne
Arthur A ll , T ,„ revr lnga of the celebrated firm of
BJRnd 8 J Rnd c °m Dublin, and therefoie
CA mil e Med. To be procured tverywhor*.
L! " Sole Agent*.
PISAPES & SHAW
ate now opening (almost da'ly)
Novelties
fcr tho
j JLWA UIU
* pp ROACH MG AUTUMN SEAiOti.
ATTENTION has been given by our
e &tative in London to the growing require-
ments of n
u r trade, and we shall hwe
FO& INIP^CIION
the following New Goods THIS D AY
q p
GLOVE 3. four and six
-r„ m all the newest winter shades
the “FLORA” K'D GLOVE
and not pro-
four and six
OTjft r,Z' all the 1
52SS® m 0VB ’ •“» —-
s u tablßpi? a ’l utactured for us f
® u Uons elBew^ in a) f colours,
OCR
Ie DRth?H SSED SWEDE GLOVE', in all
P ®Al4J 38 and colours
fLsST BHAW ’ S PLUSHES and VELVETS,
and pr n T 1 SHAW’S NEW STRIPED VELVETS
p^ E i HBS
. SILK 8 a 0 nd SHAW'S NEW MERVEILLEUX
sa tins
„ t»EEBs a iSlr n § HAW ’S LATE3T FASHION
*w 8 Ma terials
„ V *B,a™ n B .? AW ’ s SERGES, STRIPE CAN-
EfiApßg dCA SHMERES
ECR. a and SHAW S BLACK CASHMERES,
„ and other new black
GIIq PT' 8 o for mourning
j Cg QtI ALIT A^ 3 E NT SILK CRAPES, VERY BEST
TURNED BEAU TFUL AUTUMN Cos-
'll! 0 M [& t!ging in prices from 255. to 8 guineas
v Goofed, new frillings and lace
HOSIERY, NEW CUFFS and
g^ 8 ’ adi es’ and Children’s Undtrclotbiog
Plow era and Feathers, Millinery
..fEiresl, SH4W,
- 328 George-street.
*** VASELINE.
y
m
A
Soft
fcj Lea?K peara Bßes d ft P a eBenrlDfi: HorBe8 ’
father P r ai } d prevents their u
§itH Cra cklnt Ber „ va j' ive lt: i 8 invaluable— pre-
htef'corroswf “ wa^ r ? r ° of :
Hoofs.
growth.
uneqalied as a
perfect order
sole material
SSBBJSSS, hn- «- ——
ee herg art hiaB. a«?iU r P OBeB in the Austrian and
oo.d by all Saddlers and Btore-
Wt, AGE NTS :
« & Cl
J^SADDLERS’
O^fork-atreet,
Sydney.
HATTERS
STREET
SHAPES.
'<l
6l * aT
*»® BTDKBY
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
S 3
: ■
V>‘.'
:r‘
if
m
3
3
bass pal a als
Tb« BAST ALB and STOUT in the Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS
MERCHANT?,
Wholesale Agents :
W. Balchin p Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
|HE EEMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
BT THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men or business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
86 Ciaranee-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED by ACT o» PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital. *3oo,oof>
Reserve Fund *155,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chaim an.
Hon. Henry Mort. M.L.C.
Beorge 8. Caird, Eaq.
on. Philip Gidley King,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
M.L.O.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I f±. B. Cohen, Esq.
General Manager:
T. A. A. Wilaon.
Secretary:
Hector Allen*
Branches in New South Walk :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redf era, Gosford, Nynsr* n
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankxrs:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D R RIDGE’S
F Ci^CJf3
FOR
AND
Has an, enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother-will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OP UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medi
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp."
TRAPP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
D E 5. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS. :19 CASTLEREAGH-8T
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICIINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Pemale Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 130 G.P.O.
i
,"W --.. " .
{-‘ 37" -A-,— .
w _t A, ' '
J z.
-_.'_. A» .ﬂ
V'- {I ;'.
‘ 'x f .l
E :55
|“ f . ‘ﬂ 5‘2)
0
'7’;
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOA?,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
A
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE 80CIETT.
Established 1872.
Capital—lBloo,ooo with power to increase to 51, 000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Hfcis Head Offices.
First Fire Society established isi me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders hack
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’ ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager. .
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
A. ft C. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brlnsmsad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEST MU.'IC AT HALF PRICE.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at tlie Lowest Rate of Interest
in tli s Lily.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, gramed
at hates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George street.
THE AUBTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIV B STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
w'^ Vo^
♦ «* v •<siC%Jori* ..*■* *v>
V V *
O' «P 4^
•s jr ,<? W, * aO
« v o' *, <A N jjr
a ♦ v
«N V -CP' *
pWV> * v *
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BKIOHT'S PHOSPHQDYNE.
0 he only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Btudy, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
lemale Complaints, Premature Decline, and ia a
marvellous r> edieine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Bold by all chemists.
Agents— Eluoit Bros.
C. B. 800111,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large aEd varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOBEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BUSBY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorga-sf., §ydnoy p
Where Inspection la invited.
pIB FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANS
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AX
Ho. 23 Etoyai Arcade,
whore they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
W
They have also taken over the Agency fo
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary oomplalnts.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. 21 Harbour-stree*
Stables .. Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
New Central Dispensary,
53 VABKET STREET,
Two doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.,
Ph. C., M.P.S., and A.P.8., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only
at Refoum Phices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, Tram f er minus, Sydney,
and Suva, »lji.
Orders sent by post promptly executed.
Medicines forwarded to any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) can
be sent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
EXHIBIT'
LIMITED,
265 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always In STOCK, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AJTD
BABTHENWA
R JB,
WINES, BEERS, AKD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. SORINand CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAySn’B
Schnapps and. Genera.
A. MJSLiV .N and SONS’
Mdinbuigc Pale Ale.
A’JD
(tt)
v-
AND
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
m


’fSS
t r'£Z-7 ~
**r>&ft*
cE s
I
m
WATCHES JEW!
Electro-Platx.--
■
p;
5#
> tiff -V*.-
339 k 34! GEO
B 0 NA-FIDE ■ R EDUCTj
omP
e vi v —.. G_
Bourke S T , Ejf A
IR N £
QUINA LAROCHE. S
FOB GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK I®
At all Druggists and Chemists,
ASK Ton* GROCER FOR
522
S. FRY & SOUS, Hristol, London, and Sydney
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
ill
»
mm
v.\
i-:--
DK. O CONNELL,
52 Casflereagh Street,
S "AIDIN'IE "ST, 35T. S-'W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office., or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine;
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt,
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pknples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled, success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of ev§ry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of' cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the grea.t number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
addresa ' DOCTOR jr. O CONNELL, •»
52 Castlereagli Street (ground floor), Sydney,
BUDGEREE ! BUDGEREE !
Trade
:3“ng ‘
, Q: ‘1’," ’
I.._.;jI"\ "v I
,I"\; 3.3: 5'“;
I," If .< '7" /'.' 3-)
x 1;». » “\v
LAMA“. g?“ If :72 um") .
.‘_7,_ u .4, » 1mm
. ~ ‘ ._ ”L u t" .
v . .— a“ ‘
v ‘13 "‘1“ I :7 V-
1 :9 , _> 1.. :~ ”
> - ; :_ _ .. "u
, ‘ "'7 ,f A :5 3 ‘ .0
. ~ 4* 1‘“
Mark.
NO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer 9 ®,r
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly kill 3 a
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &e. Sold at all chemists. jm
Depot : JAS. O. STEEL, Bulleftln-lana, Lower 3
X> OBIBT BUTCHER * C.O,
(Late William Long),
wr WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoe ve prompt attention.
ftWHOOO, BEStgj
A Olerf-ymanhavinp tried
0 forth* CUREof NERVOV/rsjc-tJ
TION, PREMATURE DECAYagjff
Nit discovered a simple SELF-Cv.y ,*>K
the sake of atuSering humanity, he ( ,
Am Prescription which CURED tu*" ■
*ith g@lf-s.ddr eased stamped envelop®—L t j J
»r. E. A. CLiUkK.
4
3f
JSBLX> BOGr AI.E.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
mHI sparkling', healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
X quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
toe Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —CATTELL & CO.«
Sole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, IVYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
69 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUBTBATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTER BEFORE
M
Copyrighted.
HOwii>TACIL2 dud V/HIuSEZIS*
Boyd’a Beard Elixir did thin, and
trill do Q on either bald head or
bare face, forces heavy Mona .
toe he iii from 2 to 4 weeks and never
/ails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
3 P« f * Efo injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3s. (kl., post paid sent under cover, free from o«»c/vum/n,
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., *ydney,N.S. W
befors after
Copyrighted
U. 6 d
P. KIRBY.
Prom the late Mr. Jausb Cmreia,
S 4 HUNTSSK * PHILLIP ffiTKEETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED,
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was
Mr. James Curtis for
Maaaser for over ten (1
ia the employ of the
sixteen (18) years;
)) years.
Awarded Three
Prizo Medals
I'T . .i, J
/ 471 .‘.-«Q
5:;- $219471;
...- y .. ,, l J.
for
1
Wor
A. B. PYJ^’
q{
Importer and Manufacture*
HIGH ART FUB* |f
IID
Appointment®',
Brass, Iron, and Mickle-plated
Woven, Wire, and other Mattr eSa *
VeJvet-pile, Kidderminster, TsP eBt '
sella Carpets in Newest Colouiic# 81 *
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth ltu«rs, Dc> or
Services, Chamber War®'
Kitchen Requisite?, & c
&c.
The Only Address
355 sand 365 a Pit*
BETWEEN ’ .
Liverpool and Bathurst 8
SYDNEY. t
,
AWARDED THREE j
FOR
LATE ROWLANDB & LEWIS, -
Manufacturer at all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and and Progsriefor of Vioofl o^
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awaroed the Only Golo Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Go/d Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
