

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
fg
A GEnriTinrE sat.f.
(For Six Weeks Only) of
HIM HUMS, i HUSK.
P UNos,
InT
a t 15 per cent, discount off list prices; ORGANS, at 25 per cent, discount off list
prices; MUSIC, At one-third and one-fourth the marked price !
Every Instrument guaranteed for Seven Years.
Ti We payments.
CATALOGUES AND PEICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
SON & CO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
' GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
I A IjAßge stock of their celebrated machines.
lT « FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
a Mst
ores = 47 PITT STREET,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
KEE
yOODLE
S9<E
m
m
S°N
sons
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
-----—-— ——
sm.
COIiQXJE toE
&r-
Sydney,
popeess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacoo, and consume more American Leaf
Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixaon’s Cut Tobaccofl.
JEbray <Sc.
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOSRAPHY.
80LB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies ,
I. wt IbIhwiw «a»
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
I The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HO E.S
HOES
T. WIiLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGM BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH


ASK EOK COLONIAL MADE
IRE
PROOF
PvOE
Wt
G>
PROOF
0 Al EX
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PAKRAMAITA EIYEB, SIDNEY.
SCHWEITZBR’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ALMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it tbe “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon* ot SuvveT and invaluable for Invalids and Younj? Children.
o pini r absolutely “ ail Cocoa ” with the rxce*s of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
Be,Dß tfon^thickened Je ™k.nedwith arrowroot, starch, &c„ and in reality cheaper than euch
mixtures a teasn ;cnful to a hreakfsst cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the beVt Cccr P a for India and the Colonies keeping /or years inaZZciirnates, being in
a concentrated form Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical C omfort in tlie Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 3s , ss. 6<i., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
LOHW, I T ZEB & CO, 10 ADAEI-STBBBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE'HOUSES.
ORGANS
THE
FOB
SOLE AGENTS
SMITH
BRUCE & MASSEY
j limnin'!
197 Piit-st P Sydney.
Importer of ’Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and BETA 1L BOTTLE I)EP A.RTMEN r, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEBT BRANDS cf W«PKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SH ERRI3B. CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Pjiccs obtainable i 1 oydcey.
A trial will convince jou. Special Prices for Canes of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, aU returns being
allowed for. Cas' s of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge,
p. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous JE3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JA.ma.TCA RUM 1 Bottle WOlFk’S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
i Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY W«E
TOTAL—IB
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post OfiHce.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LASKIP, Wholesale & Retail Wme & Spirit Merchant & Importer t
George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket. Sydney.
SO'
<h
re shin!
Genuine'
Economical 4
d
Makers to the Queen
v
ALLAGHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
var WEDDINGS. BALLS. PICNICS. AND PARTIES A RPEC T AL T TY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, anil Brussels.
£2T LAEGBST STOCK IN THE COLOHIBB.
'©
•»
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
■rmiS Hotel la Centrally situated, being elsee to Past and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &e
' 9 SupoKor Accommodation for Families and Ccwzmercial Gentlemen. First-hass Wines and Spirit 4
v'ixo most Comfortable and Commodious Private Par hi the city.
107 Pitt- -street,
CATERER AMB C JONEECTIONER.
mr LUNCHIO.S AK» REI«*SHMENT &0 OMB 108 LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
BBS, CHUB, til >
<J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. 0. CHALMBRS. R. G- WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS’
m d MIS! I
Importers ol
.STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REOTTISXTES WOOD-WORKING j jijjjlNTs
RAIL^N^ N ? B 9r T «^ CONT^CTOR8 '^ plantT : agricultural
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUU'J-'
MATERIALS, SQUATTERB’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAR, PLATE,, BHBBT,
and HOOP ifcON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
IRPO-;
a TINj
SHE ET and FI
RATED ZINC
PLATES
PIG IRON and LIAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
BHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERT
ROLLED H GIRDERS j
Bfiftcal
EikMCa
ox
%*** d S
JNI&
!4*
-MPS
Kt**
Price Liata and Catalogues furnished on aPP ilcatlon<
ROBERTS* CHALMERS, &
co«
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY
- HARBOUR
IRK STREET,
AND ENGINE STR®ETg, g A #P
BO UR STREET, DAR^ 11 "
SYDNBTi
m aiIAOBOHURUB
******;
London OHo»
CO
<s
s->
c
CO
rican “Extra Toast te»’
breakfast,
nothing equals tne ftD d
milk, superb with w
with coffee or cheese*
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Age***,
74 suesak 8
OFFORD & CO.’S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box; Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clay ten’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 01.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
HUP
« .
mmm
A ?fSV^ Q
lit LI Z ABETH ST
.a.
C'iec/
fg
MACH I
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
newest
stocks
designs
WITH ALL
HIGHESTfiNISK
inWFSTCO' ■
CK*'
H* 5
h 0' sT
e p/
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS^i,
ESTIMATED F O5,
11l
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
jvl®
KING
REE
t *A
PSSg£
b® found & ~ fi
LIFE,” for the speedy c “ r tf4s y
Loot Manhood, Desp® sl t ire
this book will be sent P
tb 0 Jo**
of *<
01
penny stamps.
i ciiw
Address' CO". s or
g, WAB D .Va</
B C/ui“ e<


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 —No. 161- New StrlM.
SATURDAY, JUNK 12. 1886.
Ifefoa— 84.
Democracy and Anglican Christianity.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 1886.
Bishop Barry's recent public deliverance
on “Christianity and Democracy ” may be
summarised in one sentence thus
ever of Democracy is apart of our version of
Christianity, is useful and right, but where-
ever its teachings differ from Christianity
they are utterly vicious and bad.” No other
opinion could have been expected from
such an authority, and any Democrats who
long for the kindly patronage of one of the
sects and the blessings of sectarian leaders,
will be gratified to learn that the Primate
finds much to commend in the great and
popular movement for the attainment of
human right. His lordship was graciously
(this adverb we reserve for the Queen and
bishops) pleased to applaud the Democratic
formula of “Liberty, Equality, and Frater-
nity” with regard to its first and last de-
mands, except for the vague hint that in
some modern Democratic developments
there was “a formidable tendency to be
false to its first impressions by overbearing
individual liberty and by crushing the pos-
sibility of strong individuality,” which
means, being interpreted, that trades’-unions
make the liberty of their members subser-
vient to the common good. We admit, in
this instance, the charge to be in a certain
sense true, but nevertheless believe it better
for men to act in obedience to a controlling
power whioh they themselves may regulate,
than to retain their “individual liberty”
and be the abject slaves of merciless
employers. Trades’-unions are free and in-
dependent republics which have revolted
from the tyranny of Capital. Liberty and
Equality the Primate declares to be the
“half-forgotten elements of the Gospel”:
we may presently be able to show that by
Christian clerics <they have throughout
modern and medieval history been entirely
forgotten.
* * •
The principle of equality came in for very
rough treatment at his lordship’s hands, as
it always will when it is widely—and often
purposely, misunderstood. No one believes
that all men are equal in respect to physical
or intellectual strength ; to assert such a
doctrine would be to entail the admission
that its promulgator was not more intelli-
gent and capable than some of Dr. Babry’s
clerical inferiors. The maxim, “ Omnes
natura cequales sunt,” never meant that.
Its import is that class and birth privileges
and monopolies should not be permitted to
exist, and that every man should be en-
abled to attain to that position for which
his abilities and conduct have qualified him.
This has been frequently illustrated in these
columns before, but, for the sake of those
who have not read or understood, it is ad-
visable perhaps to explain onoe more the
true meaning of the maxim. A good in-
stance is afforded by Napoleon’s saying,
that every soldier “ carried a marshal’s
baton in his knapsack.” This did not mean
that every soldier was equal in ability or
authority to the marshals, but it did mean
that every soldier of sufficient ability had
the chance of becoming a marshal. The
meaning of the principle may be most
easily comprehended by a reference to its
objections. Equality objeots to allowing a
man who may be an idiot, a low blackguard
or a scoundrel to legislate for millions wno
iu every way are better men than he ; it re-
fuses to acknowledge the justice of permit-
ting one man to hold, by the title of birth
alone, the land that was meant to be used
lor the benefit of thousands, and it is
entirely hostile to a system that bids thou-
sands starve that one man may sustain an
army of prostitutes and a horde of turf-
swindlers.
* * *
The Primate speaks even more harshly,
and, as we think, more ignorantly, of
Socialism. Departing from the precedent
laid down by Bishop Moobhouse— a man
whose large intellect would have enriched
the world had it not been held in thraldom
by the chains of creed—who favoured this
movement, he construed the word to mean
a complete surrender of individual pro-
perty to a community for general disposition.
Accepting, without criticism, the principle
in its very fullest sense, it is difficult to see
how a Christian can do otherwise than up-
hold it. He from whom all Christians are
named did not grab for his individual use a
ME. HENRY SAMPSON
(“PENDRAGON.”)
large share of the goods of this world as He
might easily have done. He did not ask
those whom He taught to pay him £ffioo a
year and give him afins house, nor did He
wait before receiving a call to a new parish
to see how muoh the people were willing to
give. He never went in for land-specs., or
South Australian bank-shares; nor did He
dress himself up in lawn and silk to show
his superior rank. And to those who wished
to become Christians his reply was, “Sell
all that thou hast and give to the poor.” He
told the young Jew this, and he being a rich
man was exceeding sorrowful, and probably
lost his soul by holding on to his riches. But
those who follow Chbist in these days have
made a special arrangement whereby they
may heap up treasure in this world and (he
world to come at the same time. The diffi-
culty of a rich man’s entrance to Heaven
has been removed for the benefit of money-
grubbing parsons and their wealthy people.
Chbist made conversion to Socialism a con-
dition of his service; the alleged Christians
of to-day follow the First Socialist and ridi-
cule and condemn his praotice in life. The
Apostles were Socialists, but then probably
no one cared to enlist their services on the
side of wealth; now people are willing to
buy the Grospel in stated yearly quantities.
“Absurd,” say the clerics, “to give away
what can be sold under an altered form for
a good price.” So they use the old label, but
doctor the liquor to suit the taste of buyers.
They erect an altar to Chbist and offer
sacrifice upon it to Mammon.
So far in defence of Democracy, but what
about Christianity ? As if terrilied at his
own rashness in having condescended to say
anything whatever in praise of Democracy
the Primate summed up the case by saying :
“The relation of Christianity to Democracy
is one neither of hostility nor subservience.
She recognises its true claim—she forbids its
wrongful usurpation.” But what is this
“Christianity” for which Dr. Barby holds
a speoial £3OOO a year retainer? It is simply
the sect ca.led the Church of England. On
every point of doctrine some other
sect is at variance with him; it would,
therefore, be unjust to suppose that
Dr. Barry holds a brief for them. The
Anglican sect or body alone is Dr. Barry’s
“Christianity.” If, then, this Christianity,
through her representative, exhibits “the
pride that apes humility ” in condescending
to acknowledge “the true claim” of Do-
me craoy, her own position and record in
the pa t should tee consistent with the self-
righteous stand now assumed. But every
reader cf history knows that it is not. No
meaLer record is possessed by any existing
organisation than that of the Church of
England. Her first appearance was signal-
ised by a huge robbery—a wrongful conver-
sion of immense wealth. The endowments
of the Church in England now chiefly con-
sist of lands held in frank&lmoign, and of
lands given to the Romish Church to be
held in trust for the poor. Domains of the
first class are only held on condition that
prayers are daily, or in some cases, aunually,
offered for the soul's repose of the deceased
giver. Yet, although the Anglican church
forbids prayers for the souls of the departed,
its first representatives seized those estates,
and all subsequent prelates have continued
to hold them oj conditions which none but
Papists could fulfil. So aUo with lands
origin ally given for the benefit of the poor.
Do the poor receive any benefit therefrom ?
Cook into any history, and it will be seen
that poor-houses had to be provided by the
State within 20 years of the Reformation;
or ask the man who, in London recently,
stole a loaf because his wife and children
were at the point of death from starvation,
what benefit he received from these muds
whose rents were intended to be used as an
alms for the destitute poor. Baptised in
robbery, the degradation of the infant
church was promoted by the fierce prelates
who carried out the persecutions of Queen
Elizabeth’s reign, and completed by the
pandering of subsequent representatives.
By Whit&ipt, who threw himself at the
feet of a king— James 1., who was too mueh
of an imbecile to be a complete tyrant or
scoundrel—and blasphemously said that
“ he doubted not but that his Majesty spoke
by the direct inspiration of God : ” by all
the prelatical horde of monarch-worshippers
who told King Chaklbs I. that he was
the direct representative of God and the
constant recipient of Divine inspiration : by
their successors who preached the doctrine
that resistance to the king’s will, was oppo-
sition to the Divine ordinance: by the same
men who shamelessly forsook their own
doctrine of the “right divine of kiogs to
govern wrong ” and treacherously betrayed
James II.: by all the hosts of clerioal pan-
derers, who encouraged the royal black-
guards, fools, and bullies who occupied the
throne up to 1837: and by those who slavishly
worship every act that royalty may have
since performed, and are prepared to over-
look, or even approve of the vicious tenden-
cies of anyone related to the Queen During
the 18th century, the Anglican church was
most noticeable for its pandering to kings,
for preferment came from thence, and its per-
secution of the Catholios, but this century
has been marked by the inord nate increase
of another power—the power of wealth, and
true to all precedent the Anglican church
has set herself to grovel to, and worship it.
The insuperable difficulty which prevents
rich men from entering heaven is never
alluded to in the presence of any but the
poorest congregation, for rioh men who are
so because of their ability to forge whisky-
labels, and palm off fusel oil and bluestone
upon the;unsuspeoting oonsumer, are among
the best contributors to the plate: the story
of Dives who went to a plaoe of torment
for no other discernible reason than his
luxuriousness, is relegat d to obscurity; and
the doetrine that “who.oever hath this
world’s goods andseethhis brother in need,”
must give to him, is held only to apply to the
brother in need who is also in clerioal orders#
From cover to cover, the Bible mercilessly
condemns thoso who accumulate and keep


to themselves the symbols of wealth of this
world: Christ unsparingly denounced the
holders of wealth, but the Anglican Chris-
tians, now regard those men entitled to most
honour who hold most coin. A church is no
place for a poor man: a black coat and
shiny hat is the passport through its portals.
The Church of England is haunted by the
demon of Respectability. A eourse of action
may be wicked, but it is worse than wicked
if it is “vulgah.” And what is thereward
of this prostitution of the Gospel to Wealth *
Three weeks ago 3000 people assembled in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral to worship the God of
Love, and succour the Lithgow widows
and orphans, and they subscribed 2>£d.
apiece,—£32 3s. altogether! Nor can the
parsons themselves except in exceptional
cases obtain the money required for the
continuance of their ministrations; begging
for the churoh goes on continually, and
ultimately “the daughters of Moab” and
bazaar-swindles have to be enlisted as allies
in the good cause. If parsons truly believed
the Gospel these things would not be, and
as they are untrue to their professions, the
people go further astray. Christ and his
teachings in these days are forgotten; the
people use his altars to offer sacrifice unto
Baal and Ashtaroth— Money and Respect-
ability.
* * *
There may be some who are unconvinced
by these obvious reflections. Let them then
consider how the power of Christianity con-
trasts with the power of other faiths. Are
there any among us who would submit to
cruel death beneath the advancing Jugger-
naut? Do Christians suffer half so muoh
for their creed as the Mahommedan does for
his ? Will modern followers of the Lord do
even as much for Him as the ignorant
heathen will do for his idols ? And if it be
said that no great sacrifices are required of
Christians, let these latter be judged by
their response to calls made upon them. Let
their professions be gauged by the fact that
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, until quite
lately, could not clear its own expenses by
over £lOOO a year: let their action in allowing
God’s house to be under a heavy mortgage
add its testimony; let the fact that the choir
—which draws more people to the Cathedral
than even Barry and Carington are able to
do—is in need of an endowment without
which, we are told, it cannot continue to act
as the “handmaid of worship,” and which
it oannot obtain; and, lastly, let the beg-
garly collection ef threepences for the
Lithgow widows give their testimony in
favour of professing Christians.
* * *
Or, again, let the bearing of the prelates
themselves show how true Christians are to
their great Ideal. Dr. Barry said it was
“ the hard-workers and humble sufferers
among whom our Master was pleased to
choose His lot and to whom beyond all
others, He rejoiced that His Gospel was
preached.” Yet, all the Christian world
over, Anglicans are leagued with the op-
pressors; the bishops in the House of Lords
are now and have ever been bitter opponents
of Democracy. Their vote goes solid with
the rankest of the Conservatives ; the Eng-
lish parsons are and always have been the un-
tiring propagators of Toryism. Christ
chose his lot with the poor and needy; the
church now must be “ a power in the land;”
Christ disdained earthly power as he
spurned earthly wealth, and the respecta-
bility of his day. His Grace of Canterbury
and his Lordship of Sydney reoeive their
salaries of, we believe, £15,000 and £2OOO re-
spectively, and choose their lot with the
rich ana respectable of the land. What
matter if the Master scorned an earthly
kingdom—a kingdom of this world must
now be erected in his name, and his minis-
ters must be well paid for running it.
* * *
It may be urged that Christianity en-
courages missions, and doles out oharity to
the distressed poor. But what merit is there
in assisting to rob a man of £1 and then
giving him back Id. in charity ? What
brotherly love in robbing Lazarus of his
means of subsistence, and then allowing
him to fence with starvation by picking up
the crumbs which fall from the robber’s
table?
* * •
There are two misconceptions which must
specially be guarded against here. The first is
that we don’t say any other sect is more to be
admired than that whioh Dr. Barry repre-
sents. We don’t argue, nor do we think, that
the Churoh ofßome is a bit more consistent
in its conduct than the Church of England,
nor would we commend any other seot
by comparison. All have wandered far
astray; we don’t say that one has more than
another. And in the second place, we do
not wish to disparage the life-work of Jesus
Christ. With all reverence we venture to
say that we hold his aotions and character
to be above criticism: but we do wonder
that with such a noble example the priests
and parsons of modern times should have
subjected his name to such appalling degra-
dation.
* * *
Dr. Barry leotured Democracy concern-
ing one fatal defect—its dependence upon
the will of the people. Without impertin-
ence, therefore, we, on behalf of Democracy,
having pointed out the fatal defect of
modern Christianity—its lust for the riches,
honours, and power of this world—may
advise him as to the means of achieving that
whioh he professes to desire to effect—the
popularisation of Christianity. Our remedy
is very simple and twofold in nature. First,
bishops, their priests, and people should
endeavour to catoh something of their
Master’s spirit; and second, the spirit of
Democracy should be imported into the
body of Cnristianity. If this were done, the
bishop’s dear old doctrine of “Apostolic
Succession” would go into the lumber-
room of thought; theAthanasian Creed and
several other portions of the Prayer Book
might be burnt by the clerical hangman,
and the dogmatio teaohing of the ohurch
would be discarded[f or ever; but in plaoe of
these things a spirit of true religious
Democracy would arise to make Christian-
ity a real power, not a degraded slave to
wealth, pomp, and respectability. Now the
religion of Christ is bound to the service
of the World, the Flesh, and the Devil; then
it would beoome the active ally in the cause
of humanity—the harbinger of a Millennium
of Socialism such as the first apostles among
themselves maintained. As Christianity
appears to the world now, it is a piece of
magnificent impertinenoe for one of her
representatives to set himself in judgement
upon those who fervently believe, and with
good reason, that they are working for the
attainments of universal rights so long
withheld by a grasping, avaricious churoh
in league with a dissolute and despotic aris-
tooracy of Wealth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Reward—the Recruiting 1 Sergeant!
A recent number of the Broad Arrow, com-
menting upon colonial affairs, lets itself loose in
this piece of spread-eagleism:—
“ May there not lie before tis a new field for the
display of Colonial patriotism in the future intro-
duction into the ranks of the British army of regi-
ments furnished from the exuberance of colonial
population, which in conflicts yet to come may
bear aloft in company with their Highland and
Irish comrades the glorious banner upon which
the sun never sets ? ”
Eostatic prospect I Gorgeous glory 11 Magnificent
muck!ll This is the style of stuff constantly
ladled out by the high-falutin organs of Jingoism;
by the people who indulge in an idle dream of
Imperial conquest which would demand the sacri-
fice of oceans of blood in a vain attempt at its
realisation. The whole object for which English
Imperial Federationists would seem to strive, is
that the flower of colonial manhood may be in-
duced by their covetousness for a share of Im-
perial glory, to take up and wield for England that
sword of conquest which her internal weakness
has now almost forced her to lay aside. The
peaceful colonists are to be hired assassins, mer-
cenary murderers, bought body and soul to fight in
a quarrel which they had no voice in making, and
against peoples who are not their enemies. Colonial
patriotism never did and never can demand
such base service as this. Nor Is there any
such thing as the “ exuberance of colonial
population,” whether the ambiguous phrase is
taken to mean the excess of inhabitants of Aus
tralia or their wishfulness to join in Imperial
butchery. This continent does not yet bear 1 per
cent, of the population it will one day comfortably
accommodate. It may be said by some that the
Soudan fizzle betokens the wish of Australians to
engage In foreign conquest; we think, on the con-
trary, that the sound sense of Australians will
view that vainglorious scramble as a lesson suffi-
cient to prevent any second adventure of the sort
And on this same subject Imperial Federation
asserts “ that there would be not the slightest
difficulty in forming and recruiting such colonial
regiments ’’—for service in the Crimea or against
Egyptian patriots, we presume. We counsel no
bloodshed, but hope that the first recruiting ser-
geant who sets foot in Australia will be treated to
a tight-fitting suit of tar, embroidered with an
ample allowance of feathers, and that he may
have a free ride on a ragged rail to the steamer
which is to take him straight back to his Imperial
masters. We thank the Arrow for offering to the
oolonies a recruiting-sergeant as a first reward for
the acceptance of the programme of Imperial
Federation.
4
A Lesson to the Jingoes in Australia,.
A few weeks ago there was much frothy, if not
fiery, speaking in the New South Wales Assembly
and out of it, on the question of annexing the
New Hebrides, some obscure islands fourteen
1 hundred miles from this country. Parkes and
i his following seemed to sniff the promise of office
In the agitation and they hurled defiance at
France. The daily papers took up the cry and
vainly tried to prove that England had a heaven-
sent mission to annex any loose portions of the
globe, while noisiest and fiercest of the agitators
were the parsons and other holy howlers who
would Calvinise or Wesleyanise the South Sea
niggers. The Jingoes were a wretched minority
all the time, but they managed to make a con-
siderable row. Then the question was as to allow-
ing France to annex the islands conditionally;
now It is announced that France has taken them
without deigning to concede anything in return.
This is a bitter pill for the Jingoes of Australia,
and their only consolation is a cry for revenge on
Gladstone, who will laugh at them when they
urge him to go to war to please them. We are
not perturbed at the prospect of a French occu-
pation of the New Hebrides. Possession of them
would mean constant expense and trouble to this
Continent. Nor are we concerned at the outory
that has been raised. Those most fierce in writing
and speaking have usually been importations from
England, Ireland, and Scotland—men who left the
United Kingdom when it was thought the first
military power, and their present ideas are
with England as it was then. The true Australian
patriot is he who recognises that there are on
earth other admirable systems of civilisation be-
sides that of Great Britain, and who, like the
American citizen, wishes to live in peace with all
the world. The native-born Australian who is not
steeped in ignorance sees that in 50 years his
country will be ruled, not by a set of half-educated,
parson-ridden bigots, from an old world saturated
with religious animosity and raoial hate, but by
men with blood oxygenated with the free air of
Republican Australia, who will outnumber the
men represented by the Parkesian Jingoes of to-
day by 50,000 to 1. The true Australian knows
that the business and policy of Australia is all
within her own vast territory, the resources
whereof cannot be developed for 200 years.
“ Mind your own business ’’ is the retort of France
to the howl of Jingoism in Australia.
♦>
The Loss of the Ly-ee-Woon.
Under this familiar caption we do not intend to
morbidly gloat over the ghastly side of the story—
to worry the Dictionary for new language with
which to invest a picturesque or pathetic narra-
tive—or to describe the sorrows of the destitute
and bereaved. Such work may be fitly left to the
evening papers; our purpose is more matter of
fact, and practical—we would read the record of
the disaster and try to learn why this slaughter
has been made. This wreck is like the majority of
those which have taken plaoe on our coast, desti-
tute of reasonable cause and attributable to
a series of clearly preventible errors. It is
too early now to sift the evidence of the
captain and his third mate; there is a direct
oonflict between them: one of them or both
must be clearly and entirely wrong. It is for a
court to decide. But there is one thing that
should be noticed in this connection. Of the two
officers each cast the whole blame on the other;
it was oath against oath, and there was nothing to
show where the truth lay. Yet of the possible de-
linquents one was immediately arrested, the other
was allowed to remain a free man. The two
should have been arrested together, or else
both permitted to remain at large. Whether
this injustice to Mr. Fotheringham was per-
petrated by the local police on their own
motion, or whether it was done under direction
or instigation of some other person or official,
we know not, but it is certain enough that
the stigma of the too prompt arrest will
tend to prejudice his case, to the obvious advan-
tage of that of his superior officer. But this ques-
tion of individual blame is far inferior in import-
ance to that which includes the practice of cap-
tains generally in keeping so close to the shore
that a very slight error or act of negligence is
sufficient to lead to disaster. The desire to shave
the corners of New South Wales has led to the
big majority of local shipping disasters. To avoid
the strong north to south current, steamers are
run so close to the shore-reefs that the passengers
are usually within five minutes’ steam of eternity
when their vessel approaches a headland. That
they are sometimes forced across this nar-
row boundary-line is the plain consequence
of the fact that the most careful of men
are sometimes negligent, the most intelli-
gent sometimes mistaken. It i? evident that
such risks are run with the connivance of direc-
tors and owners. The rule of the A.S.N. Co. for-
bidding captains to sail within les3 than two miles
of the coast has already been quoted by the di-
rectors, as well as the provision for its breach
upon occasion. And it is manifest from the un-
disputed evidence at the inquest that the captain
was not unwilling to let it appear from the bridge-
book that he passed Cape Howe within one mile,
and his intention was to pass within a similar dis-
tance of Green Cape. Captain Webber had been
long enough in the service of the Company to
know what he might do without incurring
the censure of the Directors. Passing, dur-
ing heavy weather, within a mile of the coast
seems to have been within the liberty allowed
him in practice, whatever was ordered by the
rules. More will be heard upon this question
during future proceedings, but the prosecution
of the officers of the vessel should not be per-
mitted to satisfy the public. The punishment of
the delinquent in this case must not be a herring
across the track to divert public attention from
the general issue. The loss of the Ly-ee-Moon will
be a lesson in vain if it does not, by exhibiting a
present evil, prerent future calamities.
4
The Crown of It.
Now the Sydney Town Hall is, as it stands is,
a pretty fair monument to 'municipal negli-
gence, incompetency, ostentation, glutton-
ous greed. From its fraudulent foundations to
its cracked ceilings—from the simple lines of
strength and grace planned by the architect to the
sugar and plaster ornamentation added on at the
suggestion of this councillor and that, it is full of
folly and fraud, and eloquent of vulgar conceit.
A good and sensible citizen can find no pride in
the place, its memories seem to suffocate him.
He rejoices in the title of “ the Centennial,” for
the old familiar name of the Town Hall has be-
come an abomination to him. And yet his Wor-
ship the Mayor has pride in the hall, and satisfac-
tion in all its institutions. He can conceive of
nothing better for the celebration of what to
him and to many citizens must be regarded as
a great festival day. He proposes to celebrate the
opening of the Queen’s jubilee year with a ban-
quet, and on the occasion of that banquet to ex-
pend £250 of the money raised by municipal
taxation, often screwed out of impoverished
householders by aid of the bailiff, in i lluminating
the hall on the occasion of that banquet. Does it
give you jumps, good citizen, familiar with the
ways, and not unacquainted with the wants of the
city? Does it make you see snakes and swear
by the third person of the trinity good bushman
feeling no particular afflatus swelling your damper
for that great day. Do you laugh or do you curse
as you think of it? The aldermen and their
friends, amid the reek of strong and savoury
meats, the floral decorations which doubtless
some skill, not alder manic, will make beautiful;
the one making strange uses of knife and fork,
the other accommodating his garments to his fast
expanding Btomach: the puffed faces, the glazing
eyes, the blossoming noses, and the vapid windy
rhetoric of the close. Isn’t it awfui when a
hundred yards away thievery, poverty, and vice
are fostering together ? Isn’t it nearly as bad as
the bishop preaching of charity, in satin and lawn,
while beneath the shadow of his cathedral, poor
helpless poverty rots in her rags ? It must be in
utter ignorance of such facts as these that the
aldermanic feast, lit up by its £250 worth of
candles, is seriously proposed.
The champion mean man is still being sought for,
and, like the oldest inhabitant, he is perpetually
being discovered and lost again. For many years
the place of honour was held by the gentleman
who stole the luncheon from a blind hog, but that
individual is now requested to take a back seat,
for the Government of S.A. have succeeded in
breaking all previous records, and as a specimen
of joint stock wickedness their latest piece of
economy is without a parallel. A few weeks ago
two unfortunate railway-servants were despatched
hurriedly to a better land. Their departure was
caused solely by official blundering, and each left
a widow and family in utter destitution. In civil-
ised countries it is customary under similar cir-
cumstances for the State to come forward nobly
with a charity mangle and a suit of mourn-
ing all round. Among the heathen Eskimo
a subscription of blubber and whale-fat would
not have been regarded as unjustifiable extra-
vagance, or if the catastrophe had occurred
in China the Mandarin would have passed round
the hat and made a collection of unmarketable
turnips for the orphans. In Russia, on the other
hand, the Government would have sent somebody
to Siberia—the man who caused the accident, if
possible, but if he could not be found then anyone
else who chanced to come handy—by way of mark-
ing their horror at such criminal negligence. Pro-
bably it was such considerations as these which
made the rulers of South Australia feel they must
send something to the bereaved families, so they
sent—the bill for the burial expenses, witn an inti-
mation that prompt payment would oblige. The
amount was £7 for the two, and the Treasury offi-
cials evidently remembered the saying that short
reckonings have a tendency to promote long
friendships. It is many years since we fully rea-
lised before how terribly deficient is the Eaglish
vocabulary in such an emergency. Webster’s
dictionary cannot produce a word, phrase, idiom,
or anything else which can adequately describe
the men who could send the message—Please,
mum, here’s you husband’s corpse, and there’s
£3 10s. to pay. Looking back, however, through
the gathering mists of antiquity and iniquity for
a parallel, we can dimly descry one in the conduct
of a party,by the name of Qavid, who appropriated
another man’s pet lamb, and hired somebody to
cut the owner into mint-sauce; but though Uriah
the Hittite had to do without his mutton
for dinner, his grievance was a small one
compared with that of these latter-day widows
and orphans, and his royal master was almost a
respectable member of society when contrasted
with the railway officials at Adelaide. Even the
denunciation regarding whited sepulchres does
not seem to fit this crisis, for the Pharisees of old
were generous enough to liquidate the bill for
pipeclaying their own tombstones, which the S.A.
Government would certainly not do; and the
latter only rank seoondto Judas Iscariot because
that benighted Hebrew demanded the cash in
advance.
4
Some of the unco’ guid have derived much com-
placent “ comfort ” from the fact that the Rev
W. Poole didn’t go down with the Ly-ee-Moon.
The Melbourne Herald mentions that “ one gen-
tleman, on hearing of his escape, remarked, ‘ an-
other proof of the effioaoy of prayer I’ ’’ This nice
man found “ comfort ” in glorifying his reverend
friend at the expense of those unfortunates who
happened to be in the wrong half of the boat
when it struck. How else can the remark be con-
strued? If prayer saved Mr. Poole, then neglect
of prayer lost the people in the saloon. It would
be interesting to pin Mr. Poole’s friend in a cor-
ner, and put his own argument before him in
all its ramifications. Is the loss of all the poor
women aboard to be attributed to the fact that
their religious education had been neglected ?
Evidently. If they had been as good as Mr. Poole
their violent death would be a proof of the ineffi-
cacy of prayer. Did prayer alone pull Captain
Webber and the other survivors through? Evi-
dently. The least deviation from the theory opens
out the possibility of " luck ” having something to
do with Mr. Poole’s escape. The same proof must
be applied all round. But, pshaw I Pharisaism
chooses to close its ears to the voice of common
sense and practical charity. We’ll give ’em best.
It 'wag prayer which landed Mr. Poole high, but
not dry, on the Green Cape rocks. And it was
prayer which caused that venerable Adelaide
ecclesiastic to fall down stairs at a church meeting
a week or two back. Prayer saved the one—but
settled the other. We will conclude With the
Doxology.
4
Be calm, while you read this. It wants to be read
slowly and with a slight snuffle to be properly
effective. We take it from a religious paper pub-
lished in South Australia. Here you are “At
the meeting held in Hindmarsh, Mrs. Burnett
testified to the Lord healing an old mare of theirs
which was used principally in the Lord’s work, in
visiting the sick and such like errands of mercy.
A few days ago the near hind leg was swelled very
much, from the hoof to the body, accompanied
with such severe pain that she stood all day nearly
in the same place, and scarcely touched the
ground with it all day. The smith was sent for to
take the shoe off, to see if anything was wrong
there, but there was nothing visible which could
account for it. The mare was handed over to the
Lord in prayer, and from that time she began to.
amend.” We should like to see that mare. An.
animal that would go visiting the sick—and, no,
doubt, feeding the hungry and clothing the naked,,
and distributing tracts to prisoners and drunkards
as well—and then hurt her leg and have a special
miracle performed on her behalf, is an animal*
worth gazing upon. She should be in an ecclesias-
tical museum, that’s where that mare should be*.
If she had been a mare of Homan Catholic per-
suasion she would be canonised after her death,
and pilgrims would travel from afar to pray at
her tomb. And to think that she should be
handed over to the Lord in prayer! It is a beau-
ful little story. But we think they should have
done that before they went to the expense of em-
ploying the services of a smith. It shows a lack
of sufficient faith in the Lord not to have applied
to Him in the first place. But his ways are won-
derful—especially in South Australia. They are
all godly there—even the dumb animals. We
should not be surprised to hear of this mare ab-
sconding with the contents of a hay and corn
store soon.
BRIEF MANTION.
John Smith fined for assault in Sydney.
We fancy the same man has bean up once or twioe
before.
Luke Devine is the name of a gentleman
who has lately joined the Melbourne police. In
Adelaide and elsewhere it is the men who look
divine that get into gaol.
Queanbeyan Age devotes a leader to
sidering the best way of carrying loaded fire-arms.
One good plan is to hire a Chinaman to carry them
for you, and give him two miles start.
The German Admiral, at Samoa, sent out
bands of music through the islands as a means of
inciting revolt. Yet the patient natives refused
to insurrect. These Polynesians can stand a good
deal.
Dear old Fergy, of Parramatta, says that
there are some men in the world who are capable
of any crime. Very likely, but there is only one
man capable of publishing the Cumberland
Crimes.
The Manning River Times wails over the
prospective cost of adopting the cable system on
the Sydney trams. At Dunedin (N.Z ), they boast
of the steepest cable tramway in the world, and it
traverses a suburb with a total population of
about 3000, three miles, fare 2d., and yet pays 10
per cent, dividend!
A schooner put in to Norfolk Island for
provisions, and, on making the land, was boarded
by some native missionaries. The captain de-
manded their business, when the spokesman re*
plied that he wanted a bottle each of brandy, rum.
gin, and whisky. On being asked by the skipper
what he required them for, he replied, “for sacra-
mental purposes.”
The Sydney Evening News had a floe
opportunity in the wreck of the Ly-ee-Moon. It
spoke of .the "low moaning gnawing hiss of the
ocean,” and “ the sad, cold, motionless communion
of the dead.” “ Gnawing hiss ” is pretty good, but
we don’t think much of the “ sad communion of
the dead.” Why should the dead be sad ? They
don’t read the Evening News.
Suburban aldermen sometimes accident-
ally strike the bedrock of truth. “If you in-
terrupt me again with your jackass remarks,”
shouted one municipal magnate the other night.
“ I’ll come round and pull your ears for you/’
“ Will you,” replied the other; “then if you do*
you’ll find you’ve got your hands full.” And then
he went home and sat up half the night trying to
find out what in thunder the rest of the crowd
could see to laugh at.
The Home News’ tale of a man beiDg
drawn between two copper cylinders, three inches
apart, and surviving the operation, is still going
round. The Peak Downs Telegram (Q.) beat this
in a canter recently with a tale of how a sugar-
mill was wrecked. A kanaka was dragged through
the machine and reduced to pulp, but unluckily
he had a dynamite cartridge in his pocket, and the
explosion sent everything to kingdom-go-bung.
Wonderful place, Queensland.
Sister Harper, of Grafton, N.S.W., makes
the following alarming statement in the War
Cry:—
“ My early life was all a blank,
My youth was spent in vain;
The things that gave me pleasure once
Now fill my heart with pain.”
The lady is aged 77, so we are inclined, on thfi
whole, to think there may be something in hot
assertion.
Ad. from a Nowra, N.S.W., paper:—“l
pray the Divine Messiah that the ordinary blshopS
and other clergymen, Ac., may not succeed in pre-
venting the enactment of a law for the relief of
persons whose wives or husbands have deserted,
or; shall hereafter desert .them, without fault on
their own parts, Samuel Elyard, or Elias Chris-
tian lay archbishop.” This resolves the whole
question into a praying oontest between Elias and
the other bishops. Elias now has the call in the
betting market.
The Rev. E. Adams, of“ Sydney, has been
* * improving ” the occasion of the wreck of the
Ly-ee-Moon. and urges his hearers not to hug the
land of this world, but to steer for the blue open
sea of righteousness. Yet there are few denomi-
nations that have hugged more land and bugged
it closer than the Congregationalists. The esoape
of Henry Adams also furnished a good illus-
tration, the porthole being compared to the way
of salvation. No wonder a good many oorpulent
sinners get stuck fast.
Mr. Purves, the eminent Viotorian oounsef,
who disapproves of the abolition of judicial oaths,
suggests that a cross be inscribed on the cover of
every court Bible to remind witnesses that the
volume is a sacred one. Yes, we think that Mr.
Purves’ plan, with a slight alteration, might have
a wholesome effect on souls about to perjure
themselves. The ancient cross was nothing more
than a gallows. Now, if the modern engine of the
law were plainly pictured on the Book in the act


of finishing a criminal, it would serve as a solemn
warning and give satisfaction to all.
The wrinkled antiquarians who gaffer
these little arrangements in Victoria are gradually
awakening to the fact that it is a bald absurdity
to post the jury-lists on church doors. It has been
blasohemously argued that the average taxpayer
does not go to divine worship, and that the lists
would receive as much publicity if they were
pasted up down a mine—an abandoned mine.
Hotels, it is impiously stated, will probably be
used as hoardings next, and then the housefather
will know for certain when he is called upon to be
one of the enlightened men composing the Pal-
ladium.
At Lismore (N.8.W.) the police ran in 19
citizens for playing the impious, degrading, and
unlawful game of hurling on a Sunday, and the
P.M. refused to convict. “ A Puritan,” writing to
the Northern Star on the subject, declares that
” hurling ” brutalises the morals when perpetrated
on the Sacred Day; and William Cooke, of the same
locality, is inclined to think that sins like these
keep the rain from coming. The last time people
descended to such wickedness, however, the
drought broke up immediately, and Noah had
hardly time to put up his umbrella and run for the
steamer before the whole sinful generation was
wiped out. Things have changed a little since
then.
Since the 20th April one sinner has re-
pented in Sydney, and come into the fold. He
was a customer of the Federal Bank, and on the
12th of that month he presented a cheque for £l2
and got it initialled. On the 20fch he turned up
with the same cheque, whioh now appeared as one
for £I2OO, and took the amount half in gold and
half in notes. Two bank officials lost their situa-
tions as a result of this sinful little game, but the
customer escaped and has kept the police in a
state of active training ever since. Now he writes
to the manager of the bank stating that the pangs
of conscience are preying on his “ innards,” and he
has resolved to send the money back. And the
notes have actually come back, less one for £2O,
which this abandoned wretch put in the collection
on Sunday. The gold, however, has not turned
up, so it is to he feared he has only half repented,
after all. And these notes of the Federal Bank
with the numbers knowD, are very awkward
things for a newly-awakened disciple to carry
about with him. Such is life. Half thou per-
suadest me to be a Christian.
For 1 ear of a surfeit of beauty we some-
times throw aside Phil. Holdsworth’s poems, and
even light our degraded pipe with a sonnet of
Bladen’s But for downright instruction we career
down to the Bligh Watchman. We like the name
somehow. We remember Dr. Guthrie’s sermon
on that passage in Isaiah: ” Watehman, what of
the night ? ” (meaning wha’s time ?). And the
watehman answered: “The morning cometh and
also the night. If ye will return, return ye. Re-
turn. Come.” Well, the Bligh Watchman Is any-
thing but a Wynyard-square Waterbury, and doles
out these following facts, which the Marquis of
Normanby will kindly lay before the State Emi-
gration Society of which he is president. It will
show a good lawful paying line for the poaching
fraternity who made this glorious country:—
“ Notice is hereby given that the Board of Direc-
tors for the district of Coonabarabaran, acting
under the above-named Act, has fixed the scale of
prices which the Board is prepared to pay as
bonuses for the scalps of tho following noxious
animals, namely:—Kangaroos, fourpence (4d.);
wallaroos, fourpence (4d.); wallaby, fourpence
(4d.), excepting rock wallaby; native dogs, twenty
shillings (303.) ’
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent* voho aive neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munfeatfom noticed.']
“C. Rowley”: We can’t take sides on the
Ly-ee-Moon question; the only opinion that can
at present be expressed is given by Mr. Hopkins
in his sketch on page 10 of to-day’s issue.
.... “ R. Sheridan” (Roma): Information not
just now obtainable “Polonius”: Under treat-
ment.. ..“E. S. Calcott (Brisbane): Referring to
our leader of 15th May you say that ‘‘we are
utterly wrong in our references to the Chinese
question as it affects North and South Queensland.
That the Chinese are hated in the South, but more
popular in the North because they undersell the
Europeans.” Our article was based upon our own
observation in your colctay, and upon this particu-
lar point we are willing to leave the matter to the
decision of our Queensland readers. But, accept-
ing your own statement, our position still holds
good, for in the future it can only be a question
of dislike in the South, while in the North the very
supremacy of Europeans will be challenged. A
poll-tax will for very many years suffice in the
South; in the North the San Francisco resolution,
“ The Chinese must go ” must soon be the watch-
word....” Bombo”: iMany thanks; may use....
“MG.” (Tenterfleld): Yes: Disraeli’s brother is
alive. He is clerk in the House of Lords..” Cato”:
Shall be glad to see your sketches—“M.S.J.”:
The man who wrote to the S.M. Herald took as
the standard test of Scotch public morality the
number of illegitimate births. John Ferguson’s
contention that the Irish citizens of Glasgow,
Edinburgh, and Dundee are mainly responsible
for the excessive immorality of Scotland is mere
bosh, as the Scotch themselves are just as wicked
as they were in the days of Bobby Burns. Unco
guidness and illicit love are twln-sisters-conven-
tional piety and conventional pruriency are only
different phases of the same emotion “Frank”:
If the lady and gentleman travelled on a free pass
given to another Civil servant and his wife they
certainly ran pretty close to the Bth command-
ment—tne one about stealing, you know, not the
one before it “ Cephah ” : Mechanical and
laboured. Your lines are like a ballet-dancer’s
legs; you have had to put in a lot of sawdust to
make them the proper size. C. H. Givney”:
We have read your address. You have got a solid
grip of the butt-end of some eternal truths, and
may suoceed in giving the world a bit of a list in
your direction’....” A.A.M.”: You seem to have
inlsoonstrued the paragraph “ Chas. C.”:
Thanks. Will probably re-write....“ J.F.M.”:
What in thunder do you call it ?
” Canterbury we passed in a^trice,
It looking so nice.
Though laden clouds began to lower.”
And so on. What was the trouble ? Did the
clouds get into your head ?...." W.A.”: Yes. there
are inconsistencies in his life. It is an unhappy
fact that Mr. Gladstone spent millions of money and
many British lives in impressing on the Egyptians
that they had no business to have local govern-
ment apart from such a corrupt and filthy Go-
vernment as that of Turkey....” Ignotus ”: We
only chisel off this chunk of your Soudan poem: -
“ Cry with a choking throat, ~
Cry for our billy goat,
In his boldness and beauty brought low,
Crown you with crape and be shrouded in
sable;
Let your tears in a hot torrent flow,
Yea, wail your wildest weep all your are
able.”
You say that, ” although you have a lot to learn,
you will be able to lick Farrell yet.” His boots,
you mean, of course “ H.A.”: Sir Patrick Jen-
nings stated on the hustings last October that he
had not a Chinaman employed on his runs. If you
want to know whether he has since imported
“bullock-loads of them,” you had better write
him a letter “Laura”: Poetry should have
rhythm, motif, soma sense, metre, and a soupcon,
at east, of thought. Your lines are destitute of
all these attributes. We may be ungallant, Laura,
but are willing to risk our last cent on eternal,
unqualified, and unchangeable truth “Rate-
payer”: Mayor Young probably evolved the
brilliant idea of making the citizens pay for the
illumination of his jubilee “feed” when on his
recent visit to the Jenolan (Fish River) Caves.
Their gloom was his most probable inspiration
“A Subscriber”: There is in London a very
charming woman, handsome as a goddess, who
told us she was his wife, and we have no reason to
doubt her word “A Constant Reader” Brad-
laugh, if we remember rightly, offered to take the
oath in the usual way, hut explained it would have
no more weight with him than any other declara-
tion. It was then decided that he could not be
allowed to mumble the customary formula simply
because he stated his word of honour as a gentle-
man would be equally binding on his conscience.
Tbe Tories, of course, drew fancy pictures of him
being run out of the House, and then danciDg
frantically on his hat and “ taking the oath ”
with a very large D on the footpath —
“C.W.”: Nothing is certain. We would not lay
5 to 1 about Beach beating Perkins, who defeated
Matterson “E.V.8.”: Thanhs. We are watch-
ing them....“R.”: If the sea had been as rough as
your metre, the Ly-ee-Moon would never have
reached Cape Otway....“ Topman”: You ask:
“Did Prince Leopold have skin like you and me,
and was he buried as a pauper ?” No, his skin was
lacking in quality and texture; in fact, he had no
outer cuticle whatever. He was buried as a
pauper inasmuch as the money which paid for his
funeral had been previously extracted from the
pockets of the pe0p1e....“ Gosford Flower Show ”:
To make an interesting par. on the subject would
be to risk a nasty libel “R.U.M.”: Will look at
it for next week....“ Jim Mullins” (West Austra-
lia): Next week “ J.F.S.”: Not quite so brilliant
as the South Head light, and now out of date, but
fairly written and free from glaring fiaws. Sub-
stitution about equal to the rest of it—“ C.D. W.”:
Thanks for cutting, which we have previously
noticed.
SUNDRY SNOWS.
Tabatbi Royal— “ Hazel Kirke ” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ Pun on the Bristol ”
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
Royal Standard Theatre-“Hls Natural
Life”
Exhibition Building- Japanoae Village .. „
Academy oe Music.- Federal Minstrels
The “Term of His Natural Life” fills the
bill at Sydney Royal Standard. The play is an
agony in six convulsive fits, with a prologue and
several corpses, and it is constructed by piecing
together the disjointed limbs of Marcus Clarke’s
famous novel. A happy termination is also tacked
on which proves that the wicked man does not
always flourish like the verdant eucalyptus. The
scenery is gorgeous, the orchestra very good
the acting well up to the mark, and the audience
on the opening night was a living outrage on the
laws of hygiene, for they crowded every available
spot, and the number of cubic feet left to each
adult taxpayer was hardly worth reckoning. The
play diverges from the original text chiefly because
it was deemed necessary to gum on a moral, and
Marcus Clarke did not supply one. Richard
Devine, or Rufus Dawes, a young man who has
the misfortune to be neither himself nor anybody
else in particular, is accused of a murder which
was committed by a highwayman and witnessed
by a parson. He meets both these gentlemen in
Van Diemen’s Land, where he is chained to
the one and offered tobacco by the other.
At the convict settlement the drama does
not lag. The story is always moving, though
the exigencies of time and space have forced
the playwright to leave a few unoonsidered
trifles to the imagination, and made it at times
somewhat disjointed, but over the whole is spread
a glowing halo of gore and murder, villainy, can-
nibalism, leg-irons and cat-o’-nine-tails, which is
supposed to atone for a multitude of sins. The
highwayman escapes, and reaching England he
personates his comrade and comes in for a fortune,
while Dawes is doing “ solitary ” on Granite Rock.
But at last the jagged fragments of the broken
Decalogue descend like an avalanche 01 John
Rex’s head, and he is dragged back to the Sunny
South, where he assists at his last murder, and his
grey hairs (presumably) go down in serrow to the
grave.
* * *
Ladies first. Miss Dampier has a difficult part,
and plays it well. As Sylvia she requires to be
pretty, winning, imperious, tender-hearted, fiery,
impetuous and affectionate, and she is all by turns,
and sometimes all at once. She hits out straight
from the shoulder in the very first tableau, and
lands Captain Frere on the jaw, and from that
moment the audience is with her. Miss Julia
Merton as Miss Vickers dies gracefully UDder ex-
tremely adverse circumstances, and the other
ladies keep on living, though enduring extreme
mental anguish.
* * *
Rufus Dawes is a decided success, and Mr.
Boothman plays the part like a man who is fit for
better things than stone-breaking in Van Diemen’s
Land. He makes his first appearance at Sarah
Island, a spot which it is difficult to find on the
map, and which we do not recollect anywhere in
history. There was a Sarah, by the bye, in the
original novel, but she was not an island. Mat.
Gabbett acts as singing chambermaid in the first
tableau, and elicits some items which help to fill a
gap in the history. This gentleman is of a canni-
balistic turn, and it would add greatly to the
success of the drama if he would eat his victims
close to the footlights, but perhaps such an ar-
rangement would thin out the company too fast.
Mr. Dampier makes a splendid parsoD, and if he
could play the part as well in the pulpit as on the
stage, we would undertake to sit out his sermons
right up to fourteenthly, and would even listen
attentively to “afew concluding words, my dear
brethren.” He also hits Captain Frere, the un-
happy commandant getting it this time in the eye,
and the action raises the chaplain's popularity to
a height that Fahrenheit could not measure. As
for the Captain himself, Mr. Baker piays the vil-
lainous part with such energy that the audience
are inclined to identify him with it, and would go
some distance to see him hanged. With regard to
Mr. Leston, the other clergyman, he is exceedingly
good as a thorough-goiDg snuffle-buster, but this
very circumstance destroys his chance of origin-
ality—in fact we are inclined to think we heard
him at church, last Sunday week.
* * *
The convict gang is rather a weak one.
They are engaged breaking a very smail pile of
stones when the drama opens in 1830, and they
knock of in 1837, leaving 14 years’ work still in hand
This result is partly due to Gabbett, who keeps on
talking, but a good part of the blame rests with
Captain Frere. Some of the convicts hardly dare
appear on the stage, for whenever they turn up
the irate officer orders them 30 lashes apiece, and
then they knock off work and retire, presumably
to be flogged among the side-scenes. A weaker
thing still is the three-legged moral which limps
in at the close, and which only tends to show that
the virtuous convict shall inherit a selection some-
where as his reward after 17 years of gruel and
“ cat.” And we grumble more. The word “ tab-
leaux,” as used in the programme, is a good one,
but a gentleman in the audience—apparently a
N.S.W. ex-Premier-kept alluding to the “tab-
locks ” all the evening, and they might perhaps be
simply termed “acts ” as a concession to the edu-
cational deficiencies of Australian statesmen.
** * *
The characters left unmentioned in last
week’s notice of “ Hazel Kirke,” at the Sydney
Royal were of medium quality and consistency,
with perhaps, one exception. Mr. Flemming and
Mr. Phillips made as much out of their parts as the
situations suggested, and Miss Melville’s Mercy
Kirke did not fall below the general level of the
performance. The exception was Mr. Whyte’s
Barney O’FJynn. Barney is supposed to be a valet
to Lord Travers, and is, as a consequence, inti-
mately concerned with whatever high life there is
in the piece. Mr. Mackaye’s plan for making a
valet evidently is to get an Irishman—one with a
brogue of heroic dimensions—to give him an un-
limited capacity for lying, an unlimited capacity
for appropriating money that is not his, and a
deep, and earnest conviction that a gentleman of
quality cannot be serious, and, in fact, should not
be, in love proposals to such a person as a miller’s
daughter, and to put this notion in a red coat and
get it to strike mook-heroic attitudes when there’s
nothing else remarkable going on. The plan is
poor. Nor is it original. Nor is a valet of the pre-
sent day the outcome. The valet of the present
day has a manner, a bearing, a gait, and an into-
nation of his own, and is really a substantial per-
sonality to picture on the stage. The Barney
O Flynn lype of valet is as dead as the dodo, if it
ever actually existed. The dramatist who wants
to put on the beards a valet of to-day should study
the styles of locomotion, the gestures, attitudes,
and facial workings ef the members of the Civil
Service, devoting himself to the higher grades, as
much as possible. Mr. Whyte did all he could to
make this anachronism look natural, but we are
sure the valet he employs in his own service is
d fferent in every respect.
* * *
“Hazel Kirke” will be withdrawn to-
rn orrow (Friday) night, and on the night following
the last drama for this season will be mounted. In
the 11 weeks over which the season has extended,
the management of this theatre have laboured
hard to sustain their reputation for energy, enter-
prise, and capacity to discern the requirements of
the public. To please all, was, of course, impo-i-
-sible. That they gratified the great majority is,
however, stating a fact in very dry terms. It is
worthy of notice that the artists and performers
contributed far more to the sum of talent dis-
played during the season than did the play wrights.
If we were to limit ourselves to this single field of
observation we should think that the faculties of
representation had marched ahead of thoss of
creation. A wider survey corrects this. Why,
however, is it that a wider survey is necessary to
make a frequenter of the Theatre Royal recognise
that intellectual ability has not been outrun by
histrionic and artistic ?
# * * W
The Federal Minstrels and large sections
of the Sydney public have returned to the
Academy cf Music simultaneously. There is but
little change in the personnel of the troupe. All
the old identities are there, and they have picked
up a “ wonderful male soprano.” It is not stated
where he came from—Mount Wingen probably;
there are lots of strange things running wild there.
To hear his voice is like seeing the adipose Gibbes
in the N.S.W. Assembly—you wonder how the
i deuce it ever got there, and how long it is likely
to stay. He is somewhat of a wonder, but by no
means a beauty.
* • *
Except for this accession the company is
unchanged, and they retain their aforetime popu-
larity in undiminished degree. We would say a
lot about them if a newspaper could be made to
stretch out like a politician’s ambition, but our
love of bestowing adulation must take a rest till
next week.
» • * *
The joyous Japs are still doing rattling
good biz at the Sydney Exhibition building. The
last weeks of the show have been announced, for
other parts of the world are yearning for a sight
of the village.
* * * *-
The Lynch Bellringers are in town for a
few days before starting on their campaign against
Newcastle and Maitland next week. “ Lynch lore”
will likely prove as big a draw in the North as it
recently has been in the South.
* * * *
Sydney Olympic, under its new name,
the Princess Theatre, opens on Saturday night
with Buckley’s Hibernicon Comedy Company.
Hitherto this house has usually been a sort of
dramatic Charon to ferry Styx over to the Insol-
vent Court —no, that’s not it. We mean to ferry
actors across the Styx of insolvency. Under
happier auspices managers may meet with happier
fate.
* * # *
At the Sydney Gaiety the Widow O’Brien,
relict of the late lamented Peter Mac Allister, is
still in the ascendant, and time seems to write no
wrinkle on her azure brow. She has now been at
work for a long time worrying her two daughters
into a premature grave, but the young ladies
come up fresh and glowing every evening to be
bossed round by this jovial harridan, whose ever-
green constitution almost hides the fact that she
is old enough to know better. The widow’s
brogue seems to improve with age, and, like her
crinoline, it is strong enough to stand alone, The
soprano cat outside the drawing-room door is the
only one of the company who seems to be failing
in any way: perhaps his voice is breaking. Alola
now furnishes an additional attraction at the
Gaiety. An ugly-looking piece of artillery is
brought on the stage, with its muzzle pointing
towards a trapeze suspended from the ceiling; and
this pretty little lady lowers herself into its mouth
until all that can be seen of her are two white
hands, and a pair of bright eyes watching eagerly
for the signal. Then a gentleman named Ohmy
(or Oh My!) whose Christian name thas, we pre-
sume, been rubbed off by friction against the
moving panorama of life, ascends the trapeze.
The gun is fired, and Alola, after a brilliant flight
heavenward, is caught safely in his arms. Our
numerous responsibilities to the public have
caused us to neglect the trapeze of late, but we
would not mind changing plaoes with Ohmy for
just one night.
* « # *
The “ Grand Duohess ” has worried along
the week at Sydney Opera House, but not—say it
gently—to overcrowded houses. There is a con-
siderable improvement on the first night’s per-
formance, as the principals have got more into the
fit of their pans, and have become more familiar
with what Duchesses and Generalissimos should
do in the various and complicated situations in
which they find themselves. We notice, however,
that her Highness still continues to tickle her com-
mander-in-chief in spite of his strong objections
thereto, and has, in addition, taken to expressing
her disapproval now and then by landing him a
cut with her riding-whip. “ Lo here's the sabre ”
is still,too good,for Grade; we don’t like to say
she is not good enough for it. It is one of Offen-
bach’s gems, and takes a lot of singing. This re-
minds us of a little incident which happened when
the charming Emilie Melville was doing this part
in Melbourne a while ago. She was encored for
the song, and fancied she would take a trick by
giving it in French, and she did give it, commenc-
ing " Celle-ci le sabre,”—which is probably Massa-
chusetts French.
* * *
Speaking of Graoie, the Stage says : “Few
if hardly any actress has been so popular.” This
is just a little ambiguous. Does it mean that she
is hardly anything of an actress ? If so, we hope
the man who wrote it has £1,000,000 to pay libel-
damages ; or is it simply that he can’t write
English ? t
There does not seem to be any reason why
Nepomuc the “aidecong” should always be in
such a fuming hurry, or why he should deliver
tt e message s meant for the General to the audience
and that at the top of his voice. The fact is, with
an unimportant part he tries to attract a lot of
attention. So far, he has not succeeded, probably
owing to the dearness of eggs and the fact that
lemonade-bottles must be returned or paid for.
* * *
“ Only Dust,” at Melbourne Bijou, seems
to have caught on in spite of its inherent weak-
ness. Business improved during the second week
and hilarity reigned in the house, with but brief
abdications in favour of gloom. The comedy has
an altogether impossible plot, but the public Isn’t
always particular in these matters. Mr. Wybert
Reeve introduces a subtle stroke of humour in the
first act. He sits on a cabbage. A company com-
prising Signora Majeroni, Messrs. JBeeve, Har-
wood, Greville, and “no blanks’* has thrown its
immortal soul into the task of making things
natural. And in a measure they sucoeed in throw-
ing “Dust” in the eyes of good-tempered audi-
ences. What some “comedians” would have
made of the same job the gods only know.
** * *
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Holloway, we regret to
see, have been heavy losers by the Ly-ee-Moon
disaster. All their properties are goE.e, together
with a number of things which the former had
“ dashed off ” in moments of inspiration, and
which he will now have to dash off over again.
However, they are taking it out in advertising, so
it will be about square in the end.
When Bishop Barry leotured at the Sydney
Y.M C.A. rooms it was generally supposed that he
would confine himself to ucsectarian subjects.
Instead of doing so he availed himsfif of the
chance of having a cut at all the other denomina-
tions by defending the doctrine of Apostolic Suc-
cession. If this tenet be true the Church of Eng-
land is the Church of Christ, and all others are
mere unlicensed trespassers on the Gospel field,
His advocacy of its truth therefore amounted to
the denial of the right of all other sects to be
called churches at all,—a very niGe compliment to
Say to other sectaries who had come to listen to
im. As to the doctrine itself only about one-half
of the parsons themselves believe in it, and not
one-tenth of the people consider it as anything
more than a parsonical myth. It is the mainte-
nance of such dogmas as that of Apostolic Succes-
sion which prevents Christianity from being any-
thing more than a vain shadow in the present day.
There are the dry bones of doctrine, but the life
and strength has long since departed.
Mr. Wisdom is very deliberative on the
Holt matter. Sir John .Robertson is deliberative
also. He sleeps soundly. Perhaps it is the better
plan.
l iddiard, hanged at Grafton on Tuesday,
accuses Hurlsford, on whose evidence he was ex-
ecuted, of the murder. Curio, s, rather than satis-
factory.
We have infinite pleasure in commending
Mr. Abigail at last. He has unearthtd a matter,
ajvile matter, in connection with private schools,
of which we Bhall have something to say in a
future issue.
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
• t
NOTICE.
The Rates or Subscription to “ The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
Many Afflicted
With serious skin, scalp, and blood humors go to
their family physician, who either frankly tells
them he cannot cure them, or else exhausts their
patience, and they consulttbe “Authority on Scalp
and Skin diseases.” $l5 (price of consultation) is a
pretty good sum in these times, and much is ex-
pected of the “authority,” but we regret to say
little is received. Soon the patient sees do im-
provement and become discouraged; accidentally
learns of the Cuticura Remedies, uses them and
is cured. This is astonishing, but true.
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.
It is a good thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps in the house.
STRANGE BUT TRUE.
Several of the awards to St. Louis LAGER
BEER, which consists of Gold Medal and
Diplomas won at the Amsterdam Exhibition, 1883,
Paris Exhibition, 1878, Philadelphia Exhibition,
1876, and Southern States Exposition, New Orleans,
1885, will be on view at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s
New Music Warehouse, corner of King and George
streets, in a few days. The Agents for the Beer
having heard of statements which might tend to
convey an impression that St. Louis Beer had not
gained the high honours as stated, resolved to have
the original awards in Australia that the public
might judge for itself.
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps, certified by the medical pro-
fession as the purest spirit procurable.
NEVER SAY NO.
“Are you aware, Mr. Noseblossum.” said the
gentle Mrs. N., as she skinned her henfruit at the
breakfast table, " that you landed home at 2 o’clock
this morning with your new Sunday hat conoer-
tinaed beyond redemption, about 17 different strata
of mud on your best coat, your pants ripped up
from Dan to Beersheeba, as it were, and that you
rolled over the hatrack in the hall as lifeless and
limp as the late backboneless Ministry? Now, I
don’t want to press the subject during the present
festive season, but you must really learn to say ‘no.’
You tell me you don’t like to refuse when a friend
invites, but you must remember that when you
have one with your friend you ‘Set ’em up again,’
as you call it; and then your friend’s friend says
it’s his ‘put’ now, and then you do a doc-an’-dorish,
and finally you get home as full as a goat in a cab-
bage garden. Now, ‘no’ is a Bmall word, but it
sometimes means a great deal; and, if you value
your own happiness, you must learn to say, ‘Nol’
By the way, John, can you let me have a little
change this morning?” “ N-o—N-o—n-o-e—N-o
K-n-o—No I You’re advice is sound, my love. All
you want is a hair shirt and a den of lions to be a
second Daniel come to judgment. No is a good
word, and I’ll bang on to it now like a hungry
politician to a fat portfolio.” “Gently, John,”
chipped in the careful wife, “ I only want enough
to buy the boys a suit a piece at Summerfleld and
Co.’s.” “In that case,” repled her lord, ‘No’
gets knocked out in one round. Here’s a ‘fiver,’
and don’t take a cent of it past Summerfleld and
Co.’s, for, as Milton says, ‘ you can’t lick ’em.’ ”
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps,
A cordial the marvel and admiration of the
world— Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally.
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address :-313 George-street,
second floor.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps for liver and kidney com-
plaints.
Do not impose upon your customers by substi-
tuting an imitation for the real Wolfe’s Schnapps,


Personal
Items
The jury disagreed about the case of Mr.
Carl Hiram Clinton Walbridge von Bieren. The
public don’t.
General M‘lver says his assets are so low
that they only consist of bis sword, his untarnished
honour, and an affectionate little dog.
The Emperor of China is to have the Order
of the Garter offered him. At this rate, Quong
Tart should be made, at least, a C.M.G.
Mr. Jack Gardiner, member for “Foot-
ball” in the Victorian House, has at last made his
mark in the Senate. Jack has kicked tho goal of
his ambition and secured the billet of Whip, at a
screw of £3OO a year.
There are men who
have been humorists all
their lives and have died
with a joke on their lips.
There are others who
wait till just before they
die te say anything droll.
These are the men who
put their wit into their
wills. A man of this
latter class died In New
Zealand the other day.
This was the codicil to
his will;—"I would ask
that the plainest coffin
be procured; that it be
placed in a clean spring-
cart; that my friend J—-
should drive the hearse;
and that H , F ,
R , and M ,In two
hansom-cabs should form
the prooession. Further,
that when they return
from the cemetery, they
shall sit down to dinner
at the hotel amd drink
heartily to my memory,
also that they shall, if
possible, do the same an-
nually. And I promise to
return and join them, if
at all possible, from where
I am. ” The if at all
possible is a canny and
far-seeing proviso. The
testator must have been
a Scotchman.
Princess Clementine,
of Belgium, has been
brought up as a Protes-
tant, although the rest of
her family are Catholics.
She does not, therefore,
live in the dim religious
light of a German Prin-
cess of long ago, who at
13 years of age was not
even provided with a
belief of her own; her
religion being decided
when it was seen whom
she would be likely to
marry. In our days the
most wonderful example
of this easy tolerance is
to be seen in the family
of the King of Denmark,
(father of the Princess of
Wales and of the Czarina),
who have chopped and
changed creeds till they
have tried nearly all the
beliefs in Christendom.
Lutheran,Greek Catholic,
Roman Catholic, Angli-
can High Church—noth-
ing ever came amiss to
King Christian and his
children, if only it was
accompanied by a crown
or large fortune. He is
quite equal in this re-
spect to several members
of the Saxe-C obu r g
family, who evidently
considered that a grand
marriage was worth a
religion any day. The
British Houses of Parlia-
ment were somewhat
dubious as to Prince Al-
bert’s principles, and had
to be most earnestly as-
sured that the Queen’s
Intended consort was
really and truly a Pro-
testant. His wise and
Virtuous uncle, the late
King of the Belgians,
consented that all his
children should be
brought up as Roman
Catholics, though per-
haps there may have been
a reservation that any of
them could hark back to
the Protestant faith, if
anything very favour-
able in fortune presented
itself. What would the
men of by-gone times,
Smithfleld martyrs and
such like, have said to
this ? These men went
to tho stake and suffered
torture and death sooner
than abandon the faith
they held so dear. But
faith is not fashionable
nowadays.
We are speculating much as to how Mr.
Nlnian Melville, M.LA., who is an undertaker,
will vote on the N,S. W. Cremation Bill.
Folsom, not Poison or Colson, as the
dailies have it, is the name of the lady to whom
the U.d. President Cleveland has been married.
Bowman, ex-M.P. (Victoria), has paid a
final dividend of a halfpenny in the pound, mak-
ing 10J4d. in all. Not so bad, considering he has
been a member of Parliament.
Queen Victoria is by no means above
“chowsing” the tax-gatherer. The Abergeldie
estate, which she rents from a Mr. Gordon, is rated
at something under £l5OO, yet the lease was re-
cently renewed at £4OOO a year.
Sir Alfred Stephen hopes to make the
N.S.W. Divorce Extension Act the work of his
88th year. Yes, the heat work of his life. The
good deed of his later life which will spread a
kindly cloak over many not too merciful years.
Frawncis Fonetik Habigle actually wants
tobeoi.6 of a commission appointed to enquire
whether there is in N.3.W. any necessity tor a
Medical Practice Act. A fact like this is almost
enough to make one wish Australia were governed
by an intelligent despot.
J. L. Purves, tne well-known Melbourne
barrister, was offered 800 guineas to take in hand
the plaintiff’s case in the big Queensland action,
Hewitt v. Terry, but declined to no the job under
1000 guineas. One might almost as well beasuc-
cessful lawyer as secretary and treasurer of a
Young Men’s Christian Association.
The N.B.W. Attorney-General says the
Sydney Press “ pays no regard to the sanctity of
private life or the domestic homes it invades.
Such a complaint comes with little grace from Mr.
Want. The Press has been pretty complaisant
with respect to his private Ufa.
A near-Coonamble squatter rejoices in the
name of Helman. When Scotty the Wrinkler
asked another traveller where he was likely to get
a job and was told, “Just go to Helman,” the re-
sult was “ eeehymosis cum dentibus fractis atque
execrationibus.” This is Dubbo Latin.
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has unsuccess-
fully attempted to get the Royal Colonial Institute
(London) to expel The Bulletin file from its pre-
mises. The Bulletin is the one fly in the oint-
ment of Henniker, who is clever enough to get
such papers as the Times. Standard, and even
the semi-Radical Pall Mall, to advertise him
pleasantly.
When Mark Twain, who is laying up for
himself a big pile in this world, was recently
by a clergyman how he thought he’d fare in the
next, he frankly replied: “Well, to tell you the
trutb, I don’t exactly know where I’m bound for.
It’s a matter of a great deal of doubt, and, I am
afraid, of some indifference to me, for I have
many influential friends in both places.”
A Story Without Words.
Poor Godfrey Egremont, who wrote verses
and robbed an Adelaide BuildiQg Sooiety, came
up for judgem'mt’at an inopportune moment. He
got six years’ hard labour. Godfrey took into
consideration the present depression in South
Australia when he pleaded that “ all the money
he appropriated was spent in the colony.” Per-
haps he intended it for a sly dig at the Governor.
Ail the money he takes isn’t spent in the colony.
Since Marcus Clarke’s widow was “ taken
up ” by Lord Rosebery a lot of people have been
quite kind and patronising, The latest recogni-
tion of her husband’s genius takes the form of a
Government billet. The emolument is not stu-
pendous—neither are the duties. Mrs, Marcus has
been appointed deputy-registrar of births and
deaths at South Fitzroy, Melbourne. In a big
book Mrs. Marcus will write the first and last
chapters of a good many natural lives.
We read in an English paper that “the
Duchess of Marlborough, as one of the loading
dames of the Primrose League, was presented
recently with a wreath composed almost entirely
of primroses by the Sussex and Kent Habitations
(founded by the late Marchioness Camden), sent
from Bayham Abbey. The primrose wreatb, four
feet in diameter, had the inscription, ‘ Bayham,’ in
forget-me-nots ” The duchess will have plenty of
primroses—growing over her—if the duke kicks
her as much as he did his last wifo.
We see ia the London Times that Henry
Tudor Parnell has been blessed with a son. Tudor
is, we understood, a hear relative of Chafes
Stewart Parnell, and, like him, he can claim
descent from Victor Emanuel Bonaparte Othman
Nicholas Romanoff Parnell, who founded the
Russian Empire, and then, through a long line of
ancestors, to Belshazzar Sennacherib Parnell of
Assyria, and right up to Pharoah Moses Goshen
Parnell, who originated the family in Egypt. The
“ unorowned king ” business runs in the blood.
The grave of Henry Kendall seems doomed
to be ever unadorned. There was a lot of delay in
initiating the movement to procure a monument:
then further delays took place in the collection of
subscriptions, and even when the committee or
trustees—we forget which, it is so very long since
they were heard of —have the money in hand, its
devotion to the appointed purpose seems to be
their very last thought. When the style of monu-
ment is decided upon there will probably be a
prolonged search for the grave, as the tin plate
which now points to its position is not likely to
last more than about 10 years longer.
Sir Provo William Parry Wallis, G.C B ,
the senior admiral of the British fleet, has attained
his 95th year, having been born at H lifax,
Nova Ssotia, on April 12,1791. The gallant veteran
first went to sea In 1804, bqt was borne on the
books of the navy since 1795 when he was only
four years old, his father having occupied an oifi
cial position in the naval-yard in Halifax. He took
a prominent part in the memorable action off
Boston between the Shannon (of which he was
second lieutenant) and the American frigate Che-
sapeake, which was captured after a desperate
struggle of 15 minutes, on J;uue 1, 1813. nearly 73
years ago I
There is not much of a municipal council
left now in New York. Eleven aldermen were
arrested in one day for taking bribes from a tram-
way company, three others had been run in pre-
viously, one turned State’s evidence against his
colleagues, and three left hastily to study the
great resources of the Western country. This
accounts for 18 out of 21. Of the remainder, two
are “believed” to be honest, and the other is a
humble and sincere Christian who has not yet
bean found out. After all, New York does not
shape so very badly. Two possibly honest men out
of 21 is very fair, whei one considers how things
go in Australian banking circles, just now.
Mr. Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazzbttb, is
still improving his knowledge of law On 28th
March last he published a letter with reference to
a certain eircus, in which it was stated that the
boy-performers were taught their feats by being
“ lashed severely till sometimes their backs were a
mass of blood.” This item cost the proprietor
£lslt) in libel-damages, as Stead did not even
attempt to prove its correctness. The evidence at
the trial showed the circulation of the Pall Mall
to be only 31,350 copies daily, rather a weak record
for a London paper; ant it is figured that Mr.
Yates-Thompson, the enterprising owner, realises
an annual loss of about £5OOO by his venture. This
year, thanks to circus-damages and the accom-
panying costs, he will lose £7OOO for a change. A
paper with Mr. Stead as editor is rather a costly
luxury,
The French papers are eternally inventing
stories about Bismarck’s health. A young
Parisian lady, Mile. Bernoux, observing the fre-
quency of this bad news, and anxious to assure
herself that these disquieting rumours were not
true, addressed a letter to Prince Bismarck, who
so far unbent as to pen a reply in which he
assured his fair correspondent that he enjoyed
satisfactory health, adding, with a touch of that
grim humour for which he is so distinguished,
that he had no doubt hundreds of Frenehmen
would learn with pleasure that his rheumatism
gave him many painful hours. The fair recipient
of this epistle is justly proui of her success in
obtaining an autograph letter from so great a
man.
Mr. George Collins, of Adelaide, will never
believe in politeness again for the rest of his
mortal existence. That illusion is dispelled for
everlasting as far as he is concerned. He was had
up before his Honor Judge Boucaut the other
day on a charge of being on premises with intent
to commit .a felony. He pleaded not guilty, and
addressed the j udge as “ Your lordship ” through-
out the trial. He got five years—his Honor re-
marking as he sentenced him that he must have
seen the inside of London Criminal Courts a good
many times to be so glib with his ‘ Your Lord-
ships.” Probably he will, when he gets out and
gets into trouble again, address the judge as “ Old
Covey” or “Flutherpooch.” Courtesy is thrown
away on the colonial bench.
A few weeks ago
there died in the New
York police force a man
named Michael Harring-
tOD, after a chequered
career of 54 years. He
was born in Cork, and
while a young man joined
the 61at Regiment just in
time to take a hand in
squelching the Sepoy re-
bellion and chastising the
Indian mutineers. H e
fought, and scored well,
in 13 engagements, but
being badly wounded, at
last he returned to Eng-
land and continued in
service till 1866, when he
had but one year to
serve in order to entitle
him to retire on a pen-
sion. In that year, how-
ever, the first sparks of
Fenianism began to
cackle and to blaze, and
Harrington fled to Ire-
land to bear a hand in
the fun He was arrested
in Dublin, tried before a
court-martial for deser-
tion and high treason,
and sentenced to be shot.
In consideration of his
Indian service his sen-
tence was commuted to
penal servitude in West
Australia for life, and he
was accordingly sent
there along with a few
other Fenian Tells and
Kosciuskos. In 1875, the
Clan-na-Gael Society in
New York purchased a
vessel called the Catalpa
and started her off os-
tensibly on a whaling
voyage. With the ex-
ception of the Catalpa’s
captain, who bore the
good old name of Smith,
and Dennis Duggan, the
agent of the Clan-na-Gael
Society, who had shipped
as carpenter, none of the
crew knew that they were
destined to be catchers
of men instead of
catchers of fish. Mean-
time, another Clan-na-
Gael worthy named John
J. i’reslinbad arrived in
We&tern Australia, and
being well supplied with
the ‘ ready,’’ he began to
play the part of an Ameri-
can millionaire, and make
things lively for the
Swan River “sasslety”
folk in general. BeiDg
shown over the penal
prisons he soon gave the
“office” to his Fenian
friends, and kept himself
in secret communication
with Duggan on the
Catalpa also. Everything
went well, and on Easter
Sunday, 1876, six Fenians,
Harrington, H as s e 11,
Hogan, Cranston, Darrel,
and Wilson put off wi h
commendable unostenta-
tion in a small boat to
cover the 30 miles be-
tween them and their
friendly vessel. It was
a risky, but a successful
tiip. The hurrahing had
barely ceased, and the
Catalpa got under sail,
however, before the
Bri'ish corvette Geergi-
etta bore down and be-
gan to look spiteful. The
Fenians were well armed,
and determined to do or
die, but the trouble was
speedily settled by the
Citalpa’s cute captain,
who proclaimed the neu-
trality of the waters,
ran up the stars and
stripes, and then told the
British vessel to fire on
them if he “dar” Of
course he didn’t “dar,”
and in August, 1866, the
Fenians struck American
soil, and were welcomed
with a loud equawk by
the “etarnal gel-orious
Burd o’ Freedom.” Har-
rington went into double
harness two months
later, and into the
New Y( rk foorce soon
after. Bassett still runs a
whisky-mill in Sullivan-street, N.Y.; Hogan is
rustling round Chicago; and Cranston, Darrell,
and Wilson recount their tales of troubled times
in Philadelphia. Such are the fates of the W.A.
Fenian escapees of 1866.
Beaoonsfield, of Primrose celebr,ty, was,
and is, the Conservative god. Here, for tne edifi-
cation of his admirers, are one or two quotations
from his works:—“A peer. ‘A little rascal
blood.’ ‘ The earl, his father, like the woodman in
the fairy tale, was blessed with three sons; the
first was an idiot, and was destined for the
coronet.’ Conservatism. ‘Conservatism discards
prescription, shrinks from principle, disavows
progress; having rejected all respect for antiquity
it offers no redress for the present, and makes no
preparation for the future. . . . On the arrival
of one of these critical conjectures that will peri-
odically occur in all States. . . . the barren
curse of political infidelity will paralyse all action;
and the Conservative Constitution will be dis-
covered to be a caput mortuum.’ ‘A Conservative
Government is an organised hypocrisy.’ ”
According to the Austbat.asia.n s London
correspondent, Bishop Moorhouse says he said to
himself when he drove up Regent-street for the
first time after his return, “ Is this the chief street
of the Empire? Its buildings are mean indeed
compared with those of Oollins-street. 1 was a
little more iavourably imprtssed,” he added,
smiling, “with Northumberland-avenue. the
bishop might well smile when he talked about
Northumberland - avenue, which oontuius sues


piles as the Grand and Metropole hotels. Dr.
Moorhouse, when he talked thus of Regent-street,
was suffering from a very common illusion. When
you go from Melbourne to London, the huge
London buildings don’t strike you as being so
colossal as thev really are. But when you arrive
in Melbourne or Sydney /rom London, the colonial
buildings ieem to you to be only a foot high.
The Scarlet Woman is stalkiDg through
the land in a fine old style, and Zachary Barry
makes no sign. The Kyardinal was escorted into
Cobargo, N.S. W., last week by a cavalcade— which
largely consisted of Protestants! O, holy Henry the
Eighth I O, gentle John Knox, and William, of
pious, glorious, and immortal memory I What is
this thing coming to ? The abomination of desp-
lation is in our midst riding round the country in
a buggy, and no one to stop it I The rumour that
the Pope of Rome is about to establish himself at
Burrowa is, we fear, all too true. Tom Slattery
denies it, but he is a deep hand. It is also whispered
that if the Pope does come out here he will make
J. G. O’Connor, General of the;Jesuits, We doubt
this, but it will show you what the country is
coming to. What we want to know is when the
martyrdoms will begin. We wish to be able to
leave in time.
Lord Shaftesbury, who has long been
much better known as Lord Ashley, was always
of a very wild nature, and when in the navy was
considered a difficult young man to deal with. He
became no less difficult in later life, for there are
stories told of him which show that his family
must sometimes have had a difficult task to keep
him in order. Latterly the poor man, whose
health had long been very bad, had become a con-
firmed victim to hypochondriasis. He had, indeed,
been placed in the care of a keeper, but be
managed to escape this man’s watchfulness. Lord
Shaftesbury had never taken his seat, and there
has been a rumour prevalent as to a difficulty in
discovering where he had been baptised. His
suicide makes the eighth which has occurred in
the peerage during the past century, the list be-
ginning with Vicoumt Mount Morres in 1797. This
gentleman was engaged to be married, a very
common circumstance among those who die by
their own act.
The refusal of Graham Berry’s application
for a place on the Colonial Exhibition Commission
was a nasty jar for the “ patriot.” Especially sig-
nificant was the official reason given for the said
refusal. It was intimated to Mr. Berry that as the
ex-Agent-General (Murray Smith* had not re-
signed his seat on the Commission, there was no
£ resent vacancy for his successor. Among the
ondon red-tape and seaiing-wax fraternity the
idea is that Murray Smith has been shabbily
treated by the Victorian Government. After
putting in what work was necessary in connection
with Exhibition preliminaries, the poor man is not
allowed to stay and participate in any of the good
things that are flying round. No, Graham is to
pop in at the critical moment and appropriate his
predecessor’s portion. To mark their sympathy
with Mr. Murray Smith the home authorities came
out strong at his farewell banquet, and to mark
their want of sympathy with Mr. Berry’s little
"Job,” they administered a snub at the first con-
venient opportunity. This is worthy of notice
when we remember how carefully “ distinguished
colonials ” are being stroked down at the present
moment.
Here’s one of the saddest stories we
ever struck outside of the “ W it and Humour ”
column of the Sydney Echo. Jacky , one of the
richest squatters and most miserable of misers
Australia ever saw—finding himself dying sent a
messenger into the nearest township to tell the
editor of the local paper to hurry out at once as
he wished to see him on a matter of the utmost
importance. Knowing that the old skinflint had
neither relatives nor friends, the editor let go his
grip of the Archimedean lever at once; hired a
horse and rede 30 miles during a cold, wet, winter’s
night to be in time, comforting himself as he tore
along by speculating over the best way to enjoy a
large inheritance. On being ushered into the
chamber of death, the old sundowners’ terror,
raising himself up on one elbow, whispered to the
awful death-rattle accompaniment in his throat:
"I’m—so—glad—you’ve come. Closer. Closer.
The light is going fast.” The editor bent over the
shrunken form, and began: ‘‘My poor friend, it
grieves me much to—” “Bib!” shrieked the
other, "I don’t want y’ to come and gabble
prayers over me. They’re no use, now. I want
yert’ talk bizness. You know that I’ve worked
hard for every shillin’ that I’ve got.” “ You did,
indeed, Mister ” "Hold yer blanky jaw an’
lemme get in a word-do. Some time ago, you
remember, I subscribed for your paper for six
months. Isn’t that so? Very well. Now there s
just one more number due to me, and as I can c
live till your next issue comes out, gimme the six-
pence and we’ll call it square.” Let us draw the
mosquito-net of charity o’er the scene that fol-
lowed.
Last week we pointed out to Gladstone
that his movements are being watched on behalf
of Australia by the editor of the Tarrangower
Times, and that he’d better “ stash that,” and let
things go on as they are for a while longer. By
and bye, perhaps, there will be a mining-board
election, or a ballot for trustees for the Baringhup
cemetery, or a goat-fight in front of the Bank of
Victoria, or something that will distract this Cer-
sberus’s attention from the Grand Old Man for a
Lime. Then the G.0.M., like the wily statesman
,that he is will "grasp the skirts of happy chance
and rush his Home Rule Bill through unnoticed.
•Then the editor-person will be accused of having
slumbered at his post and betrayed the best in-
terests of his country-just as if anyone could do
lustice to Councillor Marshall’s speeches, and keep
-Gladstone well under at the same time. Years
ago “ ere yet our dreams had been of being wise
or witty ’’-when, in fact, we were conspicuously
-in accord with our surroundings-we lived in
Tarrangower. Maldon is its name now* and toe
able John M’lntyre, who won his spurs in Sand-
*hurst, is its member in the Yictorian Assembly,
but then the aboriginal name Tarrangower was
t thought good enough. In those days we first
knew John Tate. What days they were l Forest
.Creek, Bendigo, Creswick, Dunolly and Ballarat
,-were monthly turning out hundredweights
.of gold, and all the land was cabbage-tree-
ibatted, and blue-shirted and gladly blasphemous.
One night we were attracted to the bar of the
Kangaroo Hotel in High-street - of course
Tarrangower has its High-street—by the sound
of revelry, and perhaps by other things.
A young fellow was singing admirably, of
the mournful fate of Villikins and his Dinah, to
the accompaniment of many quart-pot bottoms in
the bar, and an asthmatic fiddle. A born comedian
he was, but with the undertone of pathos in his
eves that all born comedians have. We often met
him thereafter, sometimes fosslekiDg for gold,
sometimes in other capacities, but most often
setting the rough audiences of the hotel free-
and-easies,” or the chaotic concerts in a roar, with
his inimitable fun and cunning improvisation. As
the years went by. and the roughness wore away,
Tack Tate took unto himself a wife and settled
down, accepting a permanent position on the staff
of the Tarrangower Times. He had received
the groundwork of a good education, but, coming
to Australia a mere boy, and having to make his
own way among the "noise and rummage of
these times, he had no chance of completing it.
But his writing was always good enough for any
country paper, and the man was so full of frank-
ness and brave honesty of speech that he made
himself feared and loved and hated. Personally
Jack Tate was known by everyone within 50
Wiles of Maldon, ana the appearance of his
good-natured handsome face on any stage was
®he signal for wild applause. And the ap-
plause was justified, for Le always riddled some
looal ass or impostor, who sat in the front
,eeats and turned vermilion with hatred, with
lyrical scorn, and dealt a tiddy fol 10l
trouncing to all sorts of humbugs. He was the
head and front of all movements that were for the
public good, and not until after his death was it
known how much many suffering poor devils
■owed to his secret charity. In the office the boys
loved him, and the Times was locally a Power.
But poor Tate was cursed with social qualities
which made him too popular, and a heart four
.sizes too large, and the dissipation and waste of
his life filled him at times with keen remorse,
ffiiflyan years a& bo sold out of the paper in wbicn
he then had a share, and went to Williamstown,
where he started as general agent. He did not
succeed too well. He satirised the Dogberries of
that suburb in a comic song which convulsed the
Eublio, but which proceeding was considered very
eterodox in a commission-agent. Then, tired of
it all, and longing to “ shake the yoke of inauspi-
cious stars from his world-wearied flesh,” he went
forth one day and bought some prussio acid,
assuring the chemist with the pathetic humour
which was in him that it was “ to destroy vermin.”
And he took this, and saying to his poor wife that
he was “going home”—he was an enthusiastic
reader of Bret Harte—“doubled his hands, and
died.” A common enough story, but the story of
an uncommon man, whose memory is reverenced
in Maldon yet by numbers of “ no account men ”
and women who have felt the pressure of want.
This is a little tale of a Governor, a flun-
key, and a Democratic country where Jeamesis as
good as his master, and frequently a good deal
more independent. This particular Jeames had
been imported by his vice-regal master, and was
beautiful to behold. His humility was like unto
that which an Anglican bishop preaches about,
his deportment was not more gorgeous than his
manner submissive, his calves were massive and
outlined with the roundest curve of beauty,
and bis face was destitute of hirsute adorn-
ments. His attitude when in the presence
of the aforesaid Governor was always indi-
cative of self-saoriflcing obedience. That was
when he first came, but the fierce democracy
of the country claimed his admiration ; he
saw that men of his class were bosses of the
situation; and simultaneously he envied the
luxuriant whiskers and moustaches which flourish
like green bay-trees, beneath the Southern sun.
Determination to cultivate whiskers followed
upon envy of the success in this line of others.
Naturally enough vice-royalty resented the inno-
vation, but Jeames was firm. Of the two, his
situation or his whiskers, he preferred to lose the
former—in fact, he did not seem inclined
to stay at all unless his master exhibited
becoming submission. Therefore he shook
the dust of the gubernatorial mansion from
his boots, and departing from thence came
unto one who was willing to give him a lordlier
reward than had ever before been his, and aid not
object to his wearing moustache and whiskers all
the week, and a three-story stove-pipe and an eye-
glass on Sunday. Such is the relative effect of the
maxims of democracy upon lords and lackeys, ft
gives over the latter to the service of still
wealthier lac—gentlemen who live in aristocratic
mansions.
divorce v. defilement.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ What I part the husband from the wife ?
Ele, that would never do;
No matter what your cause of strife,
Once one, you’ll ne’er make two;
You’re tied for life, whoe’er you marry,
This is God’s law ’’—thus Bishop Barry.
Your hand offends you, lop it off
Without regretful Bigb;
Tear out the tongue that fain would scoff;
Pluck out your roving eye;
“ Divorce your erring mate, nay, tarry!
Fie, fie for shame! ” bawls Bishop Barry.
Give to a lecher’s arms a maid,
Whose cheeks with radiance glow?
Let drunken debauchees degrade
Wives fair and pure as snow;
Part Catherine chaste from whoreson Harry,
“ No! ” boldly bellows Bishop Barry.
Let drunkards beat their suffering wives,
Their tender young ones rob,
The record of whose ruined lives
May make each true heart throb
With pity. “ Odds bobs, go it, Larry,
I’ll see fair play I ” yells Bishop Barry.
Let drunken wives burn houses down, .
For drink their chatties “ pop; ”
Paint with the reddest tints the town,
Increase the “hoodlum ” crop;
Let bailiffs every household harry,
While “Home, sweet home!” bleats Bishop
Barry.
The fees drop in the legal pot,
Of those from wedlock flying;
The Church is paid to tie the knot,
The Law for the untying;
“ And as we’re only paid to marry,
Divorce you shan’t," shrieks Bishop Barry.
GEORGE BLACK.
May, 1866.
THIS WICKED WORLD .
Baron Yon Sohleinitz has been banqueted
at Cooktown—ln recognition of .the German help to
China during the late Franco-Chinese war? Wrong.
It is because Cooktown so seldom sees a baron....
Mr. H. A. Long, the champion of orthodoxy, now
in Queensland, is the original of the historic
enquiry, “How Long, O Lord, how Long?”... It
is not often that the London Times obituarises
colonial journalists. The only two that have had
that distinction recently were the late Hugh George
and the late Ebenezer Fox, of New Zealand, who,
when Sir Julius Yogel was editor, was a pro-
minent member of the literary staff of the Otago
Daily Times The Rev. Evans, of Southport
(Q ), stood up in his pulpit the other evening and
said that every third man in the place was a
drunkard. He has thus succeeded in making two
men out of every three confoundedly jealous....
Wagga Wagga beeometh cocky and truculent.
Says a local editor:—“lt is not too much to say
that the wrongs inflicted on the people of N.S.W.
by its late respected governments, would, had
they occurred in Paris 30 years ago, have caused a
revolution.” How grateful we ought to be that
Wagga isn’t Parisl....Justices’ justice In Tas-
mania. At a sitting of the Hobart Small Debts
Court the plaintiff in the last case on the list
wished to call some witnesses to prove his claim,
but his lawyer told him it was quite useless. It
is getting late and Mr. (the presiding magis-
trate) wants to go home.” A verdict was accord-
ingly given for the defendant, when only one side
of the case had been heard At Maryborough
(Q ) a man is suing his sister for £5OOO damages for-
malicious prosecution A party leaving Went-
worth for Kimberley was banqueted at starting.
A gentleman who seemed to appreciate the fitness
of things sang, “ Ail that glitters is not gold.” He
is said to be manager of the local bank so he ought
to kn0w.....A Northern paper issues a pathetic
soreed about the failing off in trade. Towards the
end of the article it brightens up, however, and
cheerfully remarks, “ Who knows what a dog
may bring forth ?”.... A return presented to the
N.S.W. Assembly professes to give the ages of
schoolmistresses in charge of sth and sth class
schools. We have not read it as our taste does not
incline to fiction Cable : Monday—Princess
Louise invites the colonial commissioners to a
garden party. Later: Commissioners bitterly
complain that their shaving-water is frequently
cold. Later still: Commissioners visited Rotten
Row—much struck with beauty of riders. Ex-
penses of cabs home defrayed personally —Here
is the latest Salvation Army hymn heard in
Sydney:—
“ Sinners I sinners! list to me awhile,
The end is approaching,
Then do not time beguile;
The Almighty God has warned.”
The verse will hardly stand the process of “ scan-
ning,” but the tune is the same as that of the dear
old chant:—
“ Pharoah, King of Egypt, was a great rascal,
Because he wouldn’t let the children of Israel go
into the wilderness to keep the Paschal.
Queen’s birthday was celebrated at Clermont (Q )
by a cricket match. Three cheers for her Majesty
were called for. The ruffianly answer was “We
came here to play cricket, not to cheer the
Queen.” Wentworth Advocate goes Its whole
pile on payment of members.. .A free fight is re-
ported at Gol Gol “in which everybody held
everybody elselback till the excitement subsided.
The latest divergence of Mr. Purves, the
cynical leader of the Victorian criminal bar, con-
sists in an attempt to cast ridicule upon the
lawyer's time-honoured custom of eulogising the
superhuman intelligence of juries... Frank War-
den, who has publicly repented more times than
any Salvationist, said, during his lecture in Sydney
last week, “ I might have been Lord Carington s
mate; but, instead of that, I am, through the
Grace of God, what I am.” This seems to savour
of self-righteousness Debts to the amount of
nearly £40,000 already proved in the estate of
Gilbert WilsoD, of Brisbane... Now shares in
Hudson Bros, (limited) are lower than ever before.
It is explained that no dividends come from losses
on the water-contract. Death-rates in
would have been high for the past three months
but for successful results of that water-scheme.
The Ozone, anew excursion steamer for ser-
vice in Port Phillip Bay, has just scored 31 miles an
hour in her trial-trip on tne Clyde. What an
almighty bump she will give when she runs up
full speed against a lighthouse while trying to
knock off one of the angles which an all-wise Pro-
vidence has made upon our coast I—looo persons
are said to be on their way to Kimberley —
Forbes, New Guinea explorer, has collapsed pre-
maturely for want of funds. Won’t some financial
Moses strike the rock on his behalf ?
• * *
Australian Frozen Meat Co. have not had
a gay windup. The liquidator just doles out Bs.
4d. per £lOO share—ld. in the £l....The Mikado of
Japan is only a semi-civilised person. He has been
contented to take ona of his own countrywomen
for a wife and to leave other men’s wives alone—
“ Gesundheitswiederherstellungsmittelzusammen-
mischungskundiger ” is now the German for
“chemist and druggist.” —The Princess of
Wales has one bad habit. She is not punctual.
Her usual practice is to turn up, in a charmingly
unconscious I way, half-an-hour or three-quarters
after the appointed time.. . One of the great hard-
ships now complained of by the British working-
man is that he has no place to go to where he is
not expected to drink beer or bothered to ‘ come
and be Saved.”.. .The Italian papers affirm that
the national navy is, in point of speed, the best in
the world. The Italia, one of tbe fleet, can steam
very nearly 18-knots an hour.. Rev. C. H. Spurgeon
says the proposed scheme for the government of
Ireland, “could only have been designed by a.
madman.” The rev. shepherd suffers a good deal,,
however, from gout in the head, so his opinion,
does not count for much.. .An English clergyman
is reported to have died worth £4,000,000. His pre-
decessors in Galilee hardly did so well as this, but
they used to go slow about Capernaum in those
days Russia talks of building a railway line
right across Siberia. The escaping Polish exile of
the future will have a better cnance than his pre-
decessors. He can hang on to the cow-catcher and'
slip off as the train nears St. Petersburg....
Some Haytian cannibals have got into
for selling human flesh as pork. History repeats'
itself. A North Queensland census-taker was re-
ported as missing a few weeks ago. and it was sup-
posed he had been made into mutton chops. Per-
haps he would have tasted better if nicely
browned with the crackling on, just a trifle under-
done.... A London Mrs. Langtry now
holds over £20.000 in New York mortgages.... A
Russian nobleman, the Comte de Medein, is tour-
iDg in Europe, accompanied by a band of 15 per-
formers, whose only duty is to play while he dines.
... .The new Krupp gun, over 30ft. long, weighing
TO tons, and throwing a shell of Icwt., has arrived
at Wilhelmshaven, where the forts are gradually
being armed with powerful guns. This is the
heaviest fortification gun yet constructed by
Krupp oh 6 of the “poor” ladies who are'
lodged at the British national expense in Hampton
Court Palace has jußtdied,leaving£ls,ooo •••Won-
derful enterprise. A N.Y. journal just to hand
has portraits of “ eight murderers specially photo-
graphed for this paper.” Some of the Orientals
have put Queen Victoria among the gods. Eastern
niggers genarally worship wealth—“ Waiter, this
fish is rather high I” “No, sir; it’s the gentle-
man’s at the next table, not yoursl”—A huge
“ high-class ” divorce-case is on the boards in Eng-
land. The petitioner, respondent, and one co-
respondent (there are four of them, all in promi-
nent positions), have been in the Divorce Court
before... .Teacher of Scripture class: “ Now. what,
was he doing in the wilderness besides fasting ? ”
“Eating.” “No.” “Sleeping.” “No.” “Talk-
ing.” “No.” Smart Boy: “Please, sir, he was
campin' out.”....The “little bit of a brush” be-.
tween the Greek and Turkish troops turns out to
have been a stiff fight. The Turkish version of
this small breeze is delioious. They say they lost
340 men, but they buried 1500 Greeks I Didn’t kill
them, you know, in battle, because war was not
declared Two boys in England, aged five and
three, recently murdered their still younger
sister by setting fire to her cradle. They are pro-
bably the youngest murderers on record
Princess Isabella, heir presumptive to the Bra-
zilian throne, is a religious lunatic, and sometimes
the scandalised (or edified?) subjects of her im-
perial papa have beheld her besoming the floor of
the family gospel-shop, togged-up in sack-cloth
and ashes. Poor child! An English parson
recently suicided by blowing out his brains very
shortly after ordination. Evidently thought that
being a parson he had no more use for brains.
A British peer was robbed of his watch and chain
in the House of Lords recently. Suspicion rests
on a duke and one or two princes, but as yet no
arrests have been made A Boston lodger grew
kind of excited at receiving a comic valentine, and
cut bis landlady’s throat. The carpet was com-
pletely spoiled At Paddington (England) a
pauper suffering from incurable disease was dis-
charged from the workhouse and put to hard
latourin an open shed. Verdict—“ Death from
natural causes.’’ Nobody is to be hanged
Samuel Henry Butternut Smith, nephew of the
late lamented Joseph Smith, has been sentenced to
six months and 300 dollars fine for polygamy. The
next saint to go will probably be Cocoanut Jones.
Since the introduction of female street-car
conductors in Chilli, they are so crowded up with
Chillian mashers that there isn’t a chance of a
respectable old washerwoman getting a seat A
lady attended a funeral in a country church.
After the singing of a hymn, a man who was sit-
ting behind her remarked; “ Beautiful hymn, isn’t
it, ma'am? Theeorpse wrote it.”—A Philadel-
phia clergyman has discovered that “Sunday
newspapers are a direct rebellion against the law
of God.” There now, Gresley Lukin.
The Viotorian Woolgrowers’ Association
talk of establishing blanket factories in Chin?
This has been thought desirable so as to furnish
that interesting person, the Mongolian, with regu-
lar employment and superior bedding—several of
the residents on the Pe Shan and Kuen Sun moun-
tains having of late complained to Li Hung Chang
of the chilliness of the nights. The profits of this
venture may with advantage be turned to secur-
ing for the Australian market a regular supply of
the exhausted tea-leaves thrown out from Chinese
restaurants, and for which importers here some-
times have to pay the exorbitant sum of per
lb. before passing it up country to nourish (but
not inebriate) the sturdy pioneer who tends the
sheep that grows the wool that pays the squatter
that warms the back that toils in the hut that
John built.
Arthur Wilde, of the Permanent Artillery;,
committed an unfortunate mistake last week. He
attempted to break into the domicile of a Sydney
policeman, and to his utter amazement he was
caught. Prom the peeler’s evidence, it appears
Wilde had only got a portion of his body in—he
was introducing himself by instalments, in fact,
and about 50 per cent, was still outside—when he
was struck simultaneously by a stool and an in-
spiration, and bolted. The stool took him in the
back, so he had apparently been coming in head-
first, that is to say he had inserted the “ chief end
of man,” which is, of course, the end with the wig
on top; but the injurious treatment he received
from the furniture made him change his mind.
He was pursued and captured, but the magistrate
considered the evidence not satisfactory, and dealt
with him only as a vagrant. The remarkable feature
of the case is, however, that it shows a constable
can run, especially when he is off duty, and can
catch something else besides the measles. The
last time we consulted a member of the force it
was with a view to reporting that a house had
fallen in the next street and killed several in-
mates; and the chloroform in blue met us with a
long stare, and solemnly responded, ‘‘Ye doan’t
say so 1” Then he scraped himself in the small of
the back with a lamp-post, and slowly wandered
towards the scene of disaster. Next time we will
tell him that it is his house which has fallen in and
crushed his mother-in-law into something like a
trod-upon raspberry tart, and then we will get
into a secluded corner and chuckle with fiendish
glee as we watch him travel.
Dear Bulletin,— Being a “ new.chum,’'
and my stomach not having been specially armour-
plated prior to my arrival in Sydney to resist the
benign influences of the elegant fluids vended
under the guise of honest liquor, I speedily fell a
victim to the conthrollin’ influence of dhrink,
with the result that my landlady saw fit to con-
sign me to the tender meroies of that noble insti-
tution—the Sydney Hospital. During my stay
there I beheld, to my grief and astonishment,
some of the wonders of therapeutics, and treasured
them up safely in my heart. On the mantelpieces,
in company with stray texts and other ornaments,
large cards are conspicuously displayed announc-
ing that certain gentlemen are “ house-visitors ”
for the week. Duriog my incarceration I saw
none of these visitors turn up; so I conclude we
may put the cards in the category of ornaments to
the institution—ditto the visitors. Certain patients,
myself among the number, were ordered beef-tea
by our medico. The beef element is in a sad
minority in this beverage, its place being supplied
by more robust but less nutritive ingredients— e.g.
I fished up from the tallowy depths of the tin-can
which contained the liquid a piece of pork covered
with bristles, and the whole concern evinced a
suspicious smell of that article. I suppose the
hospital cook, knowing we had a Celestial patient
in our ward, flavoured the soup for his palate,
although I am of opinion that gentlemen of the
pigtail persuasion usually prefer pig when roasted:
or perhaps it was thought that D.T. patients’
imaginations are abnormally vivid, and their
stomachs would imagine the presence of the
beef. A nurse informed me that on her
presenting a specimen of the unctuous bever-
age to one of the Sawboneses for inspection,
that worthy remarked, “It wasn’t bad, if sea-
soned.” It is not recorded that he swallowed
more than two fluid minims of the potion. In K
ward persons suffering from nervous affections
are compelled to endure the torment of in-
somnia on account of the hospital’s proximity
to the Domain, &c., whence the noises of Perma-
nent Artillery volley firing, bands, drills of volun-
teers, and a dozen other aggravations can be dis-
tinctly heard—and when by chance these are silent
one has to lie awake listening to the racking
coughs of other patients, and at night to the
heavy tread of a German wardsman. The nurses,
too, have duties assigned to them which are cer-
tainly outside their province, and, consequently,
the time occupied in menial work which should be
done by housemaids or general servants shortens
that at their disposal for attending to the patients.
I have a few more grumbles to make, but I fear
to enlarge, as the parsons say.—Yours, &c,, A
Neably-Cobpsed New Chum.
LOTS OP PEOPLE
Get billious, have heavy headaches, mouth foul,
yellow eyes, &c., all the direct result of impure
blood which can be thoroughly cleansed, renewed,
and enriched with Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
Bitters. It acts at the same time on the kidneys,
liver and bowels, and has more real virtue in a
bottle than can be found in any other remedy for
the same class of diseases.
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Thousands in London, through the Colonial
and Indian Exhibition, have learnt to value the
colonies, and wonder at its resources as they roam
through the courts at Kensington. Bringing ex-
hibits right before the eyes of some is the oniy
way of making them understand what treasures
there are previously unknown to them. So in an
establishment like Bray Bros, attention is there
drawn to art works in china, glass, and earthen-
ware, and many visitors have remarked, “ Such
beautiful thingß 1 never saw or heard of before.”
Bray’s exhibition is open every day but Sundays
and public holidays, and’you are invited.*
You really ought to drinfc Wolfe’s
Schnapps.


a 1 A T R 1 ROT A L.
, Under tbe direction of
Messrs. Williamsow. Qahnbb, and MuSGROTI.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
and LABT EIGHT NIGHTS
of
THE PRE3EST DRAMATIC SEASON.
This Thursday Evening, June 10, at 8 precisely,
will be repeated Steele Mackaye s
BEAUTIFUL DOMESTIC DRAMA,
HAZEL KiRKE.
Saturday, June 12, first production in Australia,
IN HIS POWER,
by Mark Quinton, Esq.
Admission: Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 6. No Free List.
Royal standard theatre,
CASTLEBEA6H-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee .. ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dam pier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
INDESCRIBABLE SENSATION.
UNMISTAKABLE ENTHUSIASM.
CREATED BY THE BRILLIANT PRODUCTION,
for the first time in Bydney, of
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Popular Prices—Dress Circle 3s„ Stalls 35., Pit Is-
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
GAIBT t Y THEATRE.
Lessee .. .. •• Mr. John Bolomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N- Jonea.
A PERFECT FURORE GREETED iEOLA,
The Beautiful Lady Athlete, actually shot from
a Monster Gun 29 feet from tbe stage to the Dome
of the Theatre, and caught hand to hand by
OHMY
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. , W. Hughes.
Agent H.J. Samuel.
C A D B M Y
Lessee
OF MUSIC.
.. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Fashionable and Popular Resort.
The Temple of Legitimate Minstrelsy.
CONTINUED SUCCESS, CONTINOED BUCCESB
of the veritable
HISCOCK S FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
MORE NEW 80NGS and JOKES.
The Great Double Quartette—“ THE LETTER.
HALL.
T
HE
ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprit tor and Manager ...
Business and Stage Manager
Mr. Frank Smith.
Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
ilcony, IS.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
'■.EXHIBITION BUILDING
_EJ THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
LAST WEEKS LAST WEEKS.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr. Willard begs to announce to the general
public that, in consequence of the Kxh bition
SSSSf £& of 6 tbe Japanese must n?c£SK§
o„e.„d N .j« p o u?) h, V c
Thousands visiting the Village daily,
he has determined upon making the price ot
admission
Ona Shilling,
n finable all to witness this Most Novel Extra-
ordinary Amalgamation of Theatrical and
Industrial Incongruities,
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS RE-DIVIVA-
Tickets are for sale at W. H. PaliDg’s and Nichol-
on and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
YNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
I (Organised 1867).
Manager
.. Harry Lynch.
ifter one of the most successful provincial
isons ever known in the colony, this favourite
mnisation returned to Sydney on Monday, and
il shortly visit the Newcastle and Maitland dis-
cts, from there proceeding to Kempsey and
afton.
JAMES SMITH, l
H. E. BARNES, j
Advance
Agents.
ST. JOSEPH’S PROVIDENCE,
Cumberland-street, North,
A Home for Poor and Destitute Children, and
respectable Aged and Infirm Women,
Conduoted by the Sisters op St. Joseph.
A GRAND FANCYFAIR OR BAZ AAR,
in aid of this most deserving charity,
IS NOW OPEN
in the
NEW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereagh-street, between Liverpool and
Goulburn streets.
A splendid Brass Band will play every evening.
GRAND CONCERT
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday Nights.
Telephone, Electri c Shocks, and other novelties.
Doors open dally from 3 to 6, and from 7 to 10 p.m
Admission, Is. CHAS. O’NEILL, Hon. Sec.
G
RAND MILITARY CONCERT
t (Balmain Artillery Corps),
NEW MASONIC HALL, Castlereagh-street,
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 23,
Under the distinguished patronage of
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR,
MAJOR-GENERAL RICHARDSON,
COLONEL ROBERTS,
COLONEL WELLS,
THE MAYOR OF SYDNEY,
&c , &e.
ALEX. ERASE 8, Lieut., Hon. Sec.
D
O B
B Y N S’ H
Junee Junction.
A L L,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
WJ. HOLLOW AY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ado
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
Marie b r izards
Who is Marie Brizard ?
We would like to know Marie Brizard.
Tell us all about Marie Brizard.
A charming person that Marie Brizard.
Are you acquainted with Marie Brizard ?
Inform us about Marie Brizard.
Who do you suppose Marie Brizard is ?
We are curious to know Marie Brizard.
This Marie Brizard annoys us.
We must see Marie Brizard.
PARRY &(os
NEW EXTRACT
OF
W. I
%
p *rry s. co s
NEW
e XTRACT«SOAI“
Sep
.
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF HIM.
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Pliysican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &e., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, Sydney
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
IK
4
i
w
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS,
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
With Moods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
9
IRONMONGERS
512
i •
o
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint ,
Albo Carbon L r ght.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking StovesLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
SHORE ROWING CLUB
■VTOBTH
FIFTH ANNUAL BAIL.
Under the patronage of
LORD CARRINGTON and the MAYOR OF
SYDNEY.
Will be held in
PROFESSOR WEST’S ROOMS,
Leigh House, Castlereagh-street,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, 11th JUNE, 1886.
Tickets : Ladies', 12s 61.: Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 303.
May be had from members of the Club, any of the
principal shops, or from
H. H. ROBEY. Hon. Sec..
No. 11 Bridge street.
THE REV. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Bojs, past and present, will
be held at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange,
Sydney, ON WEDNESDAY, the 23rd JUNE NEX r,
at 3.30 o’clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retires into
private life. „ . .
Contributions and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take will be re-
ceived by any of the undersigned who rely on a
ready response to this notice.
E. P. RAMSAY. Museum, Sydney
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-
street, Sydney
RICHARD E. KEMP, M.A., St.
Peters, Richmond
E J. JENKINS, Medical Superin-
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal, Sydney
JAS. A. BRODIE, Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office, Sydney.
r
I
I
I
J
Joint
Hon.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENOY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “Maisillla,” 13 Cas3B of
the
Finest Egyptian Hifarettes,
specially selected by Mr. N >ake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorougn connoisseur in
Cigarettes he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large sh'pment of the world-renowned
“ f pillar’s/’
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKL’3 ESTABLISHMENTS,
320 and 446 George-st t
AND
Pall Mall Hunter-street.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
ATX THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESI6NS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
HDBil
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY..
{SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OB COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
LOWEBT PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
r EVERY VEHICLE GUARi NTS ED


Mr. B. B. Holt Studies Simple Proportion.


No One to Blame —the Lighthouse Did ft.
MORAL : TIME SAVED IN THIS WORLD IS SOMETIMES LOST IN ETERNITY.


_NhwB advertises the loss
lu e » D /?.7S 0 7 ero Bn ylolinist, aged 13, and
adds that Guiseppe wants to And him. He
played in front of this oflioe and we ate him.
A sfcrav tnrnofln hna Boon „ t,
siW. morhiTf b6en dra ,?&ed ashore
stramre^finnii^h^no+oJ^n^niao lll^ 1 b( ? ys ’ who *
.’i aBt ' ead . of dissecting it with a
loinanawK, let it aione, ana gave immediate notice
' Iwa I'WCO iv "w£x\' fo $Gd *.Wj h-'S fipsy
CO h. d 11' IOIX //
iIK vrotnay. „ ko U
'KI stdr& //
As* Amiable Intention Frustrated.— To intern?
fcs hang mie's husband, and to find instead of a body a
stove p,t the end of the rope, is (says the London
Evening Standard) calculated most certainly to sur-
! prise the would-be murderer.; and, to such surprise,
in a case related in a local French paper, must be
aided the" unpleasant fact that the woman who
. . . - ■» ~*•■, it.
hanged the stove ha 3 been arrested on the charge of
attempted assassination.’ She disliked her husband,
who had an unfortunate propensity for strong drink ;
and, on his returning home one evening recently, in-
toxicated, resolved to kill him in such a manner as to
suggest that he had committed suicide. The man
went to bed in his tipsy condition, and was soon sleep-
ing soundly. His amiable partner thought this to be
the favourable moment for dispatching him to another
world, and accordingly set about making her arrange-
ments. In the ceiling just over the bed there was a
hole capable of allowing a stout rope to pass. The
woman went up into the room above, let a rope slip
through a hole, and returning to the chamber in
which her husband slept, attached it by a slipknot
round his neck. This done she went upstairs again,
•+Wjtrv
drew the rope,-weeping irttb the street telling the
neighbours ' that her husband-had just committed
suicide. On entering the house! what, however, was
their surprise to find a portable stove in the place of a
corpse ' The husband) who was less drunk tlian Ins
, '* i *
wife imagined, had released’lumself, and substituted
the stove in the mck of time.
K(?.<L (Lk twi
)di'Ok<iKs>\\y )oi- ctntxK*'
IYir Him
<' al'/cicke't) lT Qy & no u.d2>
H <s no-cK"
w, nrervr w,hsJiMrs
drexr iKi.
* 7^/(f /~ng A$Lr r 't>iex> g£ Ktt
/77g v> s>u./c//>£- /y
The Toper and the Stove.
to the police. The ferocious beast is now chained
Up. There is a stray torpedo somewhere in Syd-
ney harbour, though possibly, as it has not been
seen for several mouths, this latest discovery in
the South may prove to be the same Just arriving
after a long voyage. The chances are against this
theory, however, for unless the engine of destruc-
tion followed the A.S N. Co.’s sailing directions
very closely, it would have certainly blown up a
lighthouse or two en route.
Next to epitaphs, and the Continental
cablegrams of our gullible dailies, we consider the
accounts of the “ last dying words ” attributed to
celebrated men to be about as unreliable as any-
thing else we know of. Goethe, we are told, called
out for “ more light,” hut the probabilities are he
asked for “ more gruel.” The “ Kiss me, Hardy,”
of Nelson, Is about as lying a yarn asr that which
credits the Little Corporal with declaring at his
fast gasp that he was still the “Head of the
•Army, ’and Housseau no more declared that he
was off to “ Seek the Great Perhaps,” ttu n Theo-
dore Hook said, with his dying breath, “Harkl
here’s the old watdhman now; I heaT his rattle.”
• It is doubtful even If Caesar uttered the famous
„Efc tu Brute ? either, for the real fact Is he turned
at once, as soon “ envious Casoa ” (who stopd be-
hind CtßSar’s chair) struck him in the neck, and
defended them himself so vigorously that! he
could have had little time or inclination to make
such a pertinent, but theatrical exclamation. The
latest fraud in the “last dying words ” line is the
circus-poster story which says that the recently-
deceased Buckshot Forster, M.P , with his dying
breath cried out, “No Home ftulef orlrelandl”
A member of the Liberal party, who was
pfesent whe the coercion champion Btepped
out, now publicly declares that the whole
tale is a myth, pure and simple, and that
Buckshot died without uttering a si'gle word.
Some of these days a truthful raconteur will bob
serenely up, and tell us that Ananias, as he rolled
over and ditd lihe a rat on the spot, exclaimed,
“If I had only owned up to having received 50
bob a foot, instead of five, for that little suburban
subdivision my wife would not now be a widow.”
Or, worse still; he may go farther hack, and de-
clare that Adam’s last words were “Eve, Bquare
the Press to say I died respected by all who knew
me, and ask Douglas Sladen to write some verses
for the Heevenin NOoze advertisement.” Or,
more terrible than all; the fiend may start to write
dying words for our own great public men, in
which case posterity will learn that Dan. O'Coe-
nor’s parting speech was, “There’s Wintwirth an’
beckonin' to me to cum up an* take a
s . a *i o between Socratays an’ Demosthinays,
an phriDk out av the same jug as PUhto;” or that
another distinguished politician, having gathered
irienas and creditors about him, eat up and
ea’d, ' Gentlemen, it is better to be honest than
poor, but thank heaven I have Jived without
being either.” And our own little gag will be*
Six and six in advance—Long live Tiie Bun-’
LETIN 1 ”


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Tattersalls’ Club put off their races on
Saturday to the gain of the Suburban Bicycle
Club, who brought off their meeting ix the pre-
sence of fully 12 000 people, 'i he hinged numbers
for notifying the starters are no doubt a grand
idea, but worked as they were on Saturday, they
proved gay deceivers indeed. Then a new feature
for an amateur meeting on the Association ground
was the barefaced manner in which the book-
makers shouted their ruinously short odds in the
smoking enclosure, if such it can be called, for
smoking with its accompanying expectoration
was indulged in, without check, from one end of
the lawn to the other. Con Dwyer finished first in
eaoh of the even! a he started for, and was conse-
quently the hero of the hour. Con—we never
went to school with Con, but as everyone calls
him Con we trust he will excuse the liberty we
take—travels round the country with a continual
smile land a special make of Ibicycle, in search
of freßh bicyclists to conquer. Con mounts his
wheel with a soft smile, which increases by the
time a quarter is covered. When the bell rings
for the final lap Con is smiling hard, and the
harder Con smiles the faster his machine rotates.
* * *
The mile championship was looked upon
as a match between Wood, the Sydney representa-
tive, and Dwyer, but Wood was never in the
show, as Dwyer drew away from his field when he
pleased, and made an easy win from Buiest, Wood
falling to run into a place. The two-miles invita-
tion race proved another easy victory for Dwyer,
although Wood showed a greater turn of speed
than in the mile race, and at one period looked
dangerous, but he died away when challenged by
Dwyer, and the Victorian scored an easy victory
from Buisst. Melbourne was again to the fore in
the tricycle race, which was won easily by Stokes;
and it was pretty well dark when the pistol
sounded for the five-miles’ challenge cup. By the
time the last lap was entered upon. Dwyer and
Foulkes had the race to themselves, Foulkes being
in the lead, but at the back of the course Dwyer
made his rush and passed Foulkes on the inside,
when the latter held up his hand and claimed the
race on the foul, as the rul© distinctly states that
passing must be done on the outside. Dwyer,
however, passed inside a post in addition to pass-
ing inside Foulkes, as an examination of the soft
ground clearly showed, so there cannot be a
shadow of a doubt that the champion will be dis-
qualified and the prize awarded to Foulkes.
n * *
To call Saturday’s a bona fide amateur
meeting would be simply a farce, and we can
safely say that bicyclism has made greater head-
way than any other class of sport in dragging
amateurism through the mire. Take Saturday’s
meeting for evidence. The bookmakers, baulked
of their prey at Randwick, took the smoking en-
closure and portion of the lawn by storm, without
hindrance from the authorities. Then as to the
competitors, the two best men were riding for a
bigger stake than the “ pot,” for were they not
the representatives of rival bicycle makers, and
did not the winning of the race mean a big puff to
their advertisements, and a matter of pounds,
shillings, and pence on the sale of machines. Un-
fortunately the same rules do not by any means
govern all classes of amateur sport. The fact of
a man making a living out of the sale or repair ol
boats will cut him out of bona fide amateur racing
circles. Bennett and Wood advertised on Satur-
day’s programme that" they are the only p ac-
tical repairers of bicycles and tricycles,” but they
still rank as amateurs. This is not as it should be.
We noticed also that B. and W. informed the
crowd that their bicycles “ win all the champion-
ships and principal races,” but they will have to
make a bit of an alteration in their ads. on the
signboards with which they adorn the city, for did
not Dwyer, wno reprtsents their bete noir, " The
Club” make of machines, appropriate the pots and
the right of advertising the victory. Amateur
sport—bah!
W ▼
The six-round bout between Pablo Frank
and Fogarty on Saturday night was looked upon
as the best morsel at Foley's show, but it resulted
in a very tame affair, of the one afraid and the
other not-game order. Fogarty was livelier than
usualt took ft lead from the start, and in the third
round Pablo came down all of a heap, and was up
only in time to save the fight being given to
Fogarty. The men sparred very cautiously till
the termination of the sixth round, when the
referee declared it a draw, but had we been in the
unthankful post, we should not have hesitated in
at onoe declaring F garty the winner. Whatever
fighting was done, Fogarty did it. We did not see
the terrible blow struck which laid Pablo out for
more than his Msecs., and we thought at the time
he was " playing ’possum,” but he " acknowledged
the corn” when he stiffened himself, and Fogarty
should have been awarded the battle. M’Carthy and
Meadows did not show up to such advantage as
was expected in their four rounds. M’Carthy
has great action. He dances in, dances out, feints,
grunts, and does everything which a boxer is ex-
pected to do, except hit, and the way he held back
his terrible-looking left looked as if he were
afraid of killing Meadows if he let it go. Meadows
did not box up to his best form, and altogether the
show was tame. Mick Dooley and Fitzsimmons
had a bout, and perhaps the best show of the
evening was between the little New Zealander,
Murphy, and a lad named Johnstone. Johnstone
fancied he had a soft thing in Mr. Murphy, who
went very quietly till the third round, when he
let loose and persuaded Johnstone to cry ptccavi
before the regulation ‘ three minutes were up.
Murphy is certainly a good ’un at his weight, and
we should very much like to see him have a turn-
up with George Powell.
* * *
Colonial scullers in England are not exactly-
having a gay time of it. The over-confident Mat-
terson has suffered defeat at the hands of Perkins,
the remarkably pretty sculler who visited the
colonies some time since; Nelson has gone under
to Bubear, and it only requires Beach to have to
look round for Hanlan to complete our aquatic
woes. And suoh an unwished-for consummation
may be nearer than most Sydneyites imagine.
That the Hanlan who rowed on the Parramatta
was the phenomenon who rowed roughshod oyer
the world we never believed (many a roasting
have we received, by the way, over our fad ),
and we shall not be at all surprised should our
champion go under in the coming race. On the
Parramatta we should consider it George-street to
a mandarin orange on the colonial, but the saa voy-
age, change of climate and diet, lionising and
other little matters, may make all the difference in
the man, and although we may receive a wire the
day before the race that “ Beach never felt better
m his life,” when the critical test come 3 William
Beach may find, with sinking heart, that he has left
his strength and stamina behind in his adopted
country. „ „
• * *
The decided victory of the Australian
eleven over the strong team of Gentlemen of
England goes somewhat to soften the wave of de-
feat which is just now sweeping over the colonial
scullers in England The consistent Tommy Gar-
rett was all there as usual when called upon for an
effort with the ball, and his splendid average of 4
wickels for 20 runs in the first lanings. and 3
wickets for 30 runs in the second deserves a special
word of praise. Tommy’s lines as a bowler are
not set in pleasant piaces, for as a rule he is only
sent on when the other bowlers are dead-beat and
the batsmen are set. In connection with the first
Australian Eleven who visited England, Spofforth
obtained the best average, but it is a well-known
fact that Garrett did the best work. In the match
concluded on Friday last, the Gentlemen were all
disposed of for 99 as against the Australians 150 in
the first innings, Bonnor topping the list with a
splendid ly-put-together 39. The Englishmen then
scored 136, and the colonials put together the re-
ouisite number of runs to win the match for the
loss of three wickets, Jones and Blaokham scoring
36 and 32 respectively.
* * *
Saturday last, though perhaps a trifle
damp underfoot, was all that could be desired
from a footballer’s point of view. The principal
matches for the Gardiner Cup were Wallaroo v.
Redfern, University v. Balmain, Gordon v. Parra-
matta, and Burwood v. Arfoma. The Wallaroo
representatives easily defeated the Redferns, the
Gordons did ditto to the Parramatta men, Univer-
sity just managed to score a win from Balmain hy
4 points to nil, and the Burwood-Arfoma game re-
sulted in a draw. For the J unior Cup the Rand-
wicks beat Manly 13 to nil, Oxford beat Victoria 3
to nil, Strathfleld beat Cammeray 11 to 3, and
Double Bay and Loretto played a draw. The
Strathflelds are playing well, and of all the young-
sters we fancy their chance most for the Cup.
* * *
Should anything like fine weather prevail,
the sheet of water on which the St. Ignatius’ re-
gatta is to be held next Saturday is pretty sure to
be as smooth as the proverbial Gerald
Kennedy, from the S.R.C.. the champion George
Brett, from the M.R.C.; George Robertson, who
divides his attentions between the M R C. and
G.R.C.; C. Dobsoe, of the W.R.C. and S.R.C.; and
J. Frazer, Balmain R.C., are entered for the single
soull raee in skiffs, which on paper looks a very
easy thing for Brett. La*t year the one a senior
race was for double sculis, and the Mercantiles
were the possessors of the fastest club skiff in
the harbour, but times have changed, as the Syd-
neys can boast of a regular spieler, turned out by
Donnelly. George Robertson will row the Glebe
boat, a fast-looking craft, put together by Floyd,
of Glebe Point; and Dobson will pull in the Wool-
loomooloo boat another fast one by Donnelly and
Sullivan.
* * *
We must go from home to learn colonial
items. A New York paper says—“ Mr. Price, for
some years contributor of ‘ Aquatic Notes * for
the Sydney Bulletin, N.S.W., was among the
passengers on the ill-starred Oregon. Mr. Price is
on his way to San Francisco.” Mr. Price could not
travel on a better reputation, although we say it
as shouldn’t, but it so happens wa have no recol-
lection of Mr. Price in connection with the staff
of The Bulletin.
* * *
Consul Griffin may he pleased to sight the
following par re his old friend Zack;—“Zack
Phelps got off the same grape gag that the Louis-
villes will be stronger without big Californian
Smith than they will with him, as he will play
Hecker on first base when he is not pitching, and
as Hecker inspires the boys with confidence it
will be the making of the team.” We don’t ex-
zack-ly see it ourselves, but we suppose the
Sydney baseballers know all about it.
* * *
The final match for the Junior Cricket
Cup came to a conclusion on Saturday last, the
winners turning up in the Osbornes with seven
wickets to spare. The Osbornes have won three
cups out of four for which they have competed,
and as they have no fresh fields to conquer in the
•?.ior line, they have decided to give some of the
other clubs a show, and will next season join the
ranks of the seniors. Though not possessing any
players of Intercolonial calibre amongst the'r
number, they are a good all-round team, playing
as one man, and we shall not be surprised to see
them give a good account of themselves against
the senior clues.
* * - f *'
The Hon. Jas. "White doesn’t allow senti-
ment to interfere with business. He has parted
with the “ champion ” winner, Matchlock, for a
thousmd guiaeas. But after all, Matchlock *s only
a horse. There are many men who would sell
their mothers at the price.
Wolfe's Schnapps taken three times a day
will make a different man of you.
Scientific judges confess Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
FEASTS and ENTERTAINMENTS to be given
the Inmates of the Destitute Asylums at
Liverpool, Parramatta, and Newington.
Gentlemen willing to assist in carrying out the
ibove, will kindly meet at the Tea Rooms (up-
stairs) of Mr. Quong Tart, Sydney Arcade, on
FRIDAY EVENING, the 11th INSTANT,
at 7 o’clock.
ROBERT GRAY. J.P.! Joint
A. C. HEWLETT, 1 Secs.
rpHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION!
MONTSERRAT
LTME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Department of Public Workr,
Sydney, June 8, 1886.
Tenders for public works ana sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnmsnt Gazbtt*. a file of whioh
Is kept at every Post Office in the eolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
sre opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not hind itself to aoospt
the lowest or any tender. x
Natan of Work! ana SuppllM
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Iron Roof. &0., Paint Shop,
Eveleigb \
Riveting up, &c., miles of
Pipes, and Erection of one
Aqueduct, Syd. Water Supply
Supply of Loam, at new Loco-
motive Foundry, Eveleigh
Supply of Ingot Copper, Rail-
way Department
Tuesday,
June 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Delivery in New-
castle of Pipes, for Water
Supply Reticulation, Hunter
River District.
Fencing, &c., Police Buildings,
Cobborah
Erection of Station master s
House, Ravensworth, Great
Northern Railway
Supply of Castings for Great
Southern and Western Rail-
ways and the Tramways
Tuesday.
June 22,
at 11 o’clock.
Wood Pavement, &e„ Circular
Quay
Repairs, &0., Court-house, Mer-
riwa
Construction, &c., of one 230 ton
Silt Punt, Dredge Service.
Construction of Timber Jetty,
with approach thereto, at
Horse-shoe Bay, Bermagui.
Construction of Punt for ‘ Spit,’
Middle Harbour
Tuesday,
June 29,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions new Lock-up l'aralga
Tuesday,
July C,
at 11 o’clock.
rection of Police Station Build-
ings, Grabben Gullen
Additions Court-house. Cooran-
bong
Additions Post and Telegraph
Office, Narandera.
Tuesday,
July 13,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Tuesday,
July 20,
at 11 o’clook.
W. J. LYNB.
Prosecute the Swindlers!!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters
(see green twig of Hops on the white label and
Dr. Soule's name blown in each bottle) the
vendor hands out anything but American
Hop Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor
as you would a viper ; and if he has taken
your money for anything else indiot him
for the fraud, and sue him for damages for
the swindle, and we will reward you liber-
ally for the conviotion.
“ I Have Suffered.
With every disease imaginable for the last
three years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, reoommending
“ Hop Bitters ” to me,
I used two bottles !
Am entirely cured and heartily recom-
mend Hop Bitters to every one.
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
Counterfeiting Proves Superiority
“Although counterfeiting is one of the
greatest crimes againt the business ©f any
country and in many casss—
“ Destructive of health and life!”
“ It proves beyond a doubt the”
“Superiority”—
Of the article counterfeited ;
As no inferior article is ever counterfeited
Proof of this is found in the great number
in
“ Australia, England, France,
“Germany, India, Belgium, Canada and the
U.S. —
Of counterfeits of the great remedy,
“ Hop Bitters,”
Whose name and merits are so well known
the world over that it is a
“Shining mark and favorite prey
“ For counterfeiters ! ! !”
Beware of all that does not have a green
cluster of hops on the white label.
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule’s
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse It and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else indiot him
for the fraud and sue him for damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
&. CYMpIDITJM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “ Golden
Lyre.”
I ENTLEMEN’B CLOTHES REPAIRED
r AND CLEANED j
AT
130 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street. !
MASON BROTHERS
SXHI
Mil
msom
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Hare always in STOCK, forSALI
to the TRADB and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
SLABS, CHINA,
axi>
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEBRsTakd SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents lor
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.QAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVTNand SONS’
Bdlnburga Pale Ale.
THB FRBSH FOOD AND ICB COMPANY
(Limited)
N have Opened a
BRANCH DBPOI
▲I
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, Ao„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left for dellrery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo -
nary complaints.
Fresh Food and fee Co., Limited,
Head Office *1 Harbcmr-fltreet
Stables hi •• ss« .. Liverpool-Street.
Factory ... Mlttagong.
d
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amher.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &o.
8. ROSENTHAL, Pipexnakex,
1 Liltle Colllns-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
I\TERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
_[>( STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address— “ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
OUR VICTOR BICYCLE.
BENNETT * WOOD, 68 King-staoot.
Orrp VTPTOR EXCELSIOR BICYCLE has BALL BEARINGS to BOTH Wheels, Hollow Front and
BACK Ms Epical Backbone, Detachable Handle-bar. The following parts are highly
Hubs Head, Hadle-bar, part of Backbone, and all back Forks Btep, Cranks, and
i?e*dalB: PI?ICE, los. Cut this advertisement out when making application.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DNfING GEAR, Brass & Hlckol-platod SHOP FROHYS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
tar Brags and B ell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, BlaoksmithHigJ
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatie Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "PLUSH-OUT,” " “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers. Exhaust Fa”
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, he.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 A 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application.


THE VON BIEREiN TRIAL.
Atthisstago of the proceeding Mr. Rogers informed the court that
Mr Griffin .consul- general for the United HUfcdsof America, had been
subpoenaed- to give evidence on behalf of the defendant, but that
gentleman had slid that he could not, according to his consular rights,
come to the efourt. His Honor : ‘‘What! has
war broken. out between tins
country and America I (Laugh-
ter.) ... I think that if
Mr. Griffin hail regard to his
national position he would come;
I have no doub* he ought to
come if he thinks Iris evidenoe
would ho of any use 1 cannot
see h<>w Iris official dignity would b<*
in any way affected by his coming
co this court." f t
Consul Griffin: '‘Tin? reason
why [ can't come is this Now, J
remember some years ago, before
the duty was taken off wool, Grant
said to me, 1 ' &c., &c
THE QUEEN’S JUBILEE.
A. lively discussion took plafte in the City
Council yesterday in reference to a proposed
expenditure of £250 for illuminating the tower
of the Town-hall on the occasion of the ban-
quet to be given by the Mayor in honor of the
Queen's Jubilee on June 21. It was alleged
by Alderman J. D. Young ttiut the town clerk
bad asked certain aldermen to sign a document
in favor of the expenditure. Alderman J.
Harris objected to the expenditure of the
money tor illuminations for “any person’’ which
brought the Mayor's protest against the Queen
being styled as a “ person.” Alderman Harris
repudiated the assertion that he so styled her.
Majesty, what he had said was meant generally.
t P^nrii'
kin/
'ye of y e
pC°nvlvial &j])e
7Sprdn£e Vf>, }>vckled on.
})is, amour dndtbreyr
SoWn hys gduvtietie, My
4 'perjoiy ’f " Which Jf o ye
gpeecne (bminQ. tn%°y tim f aL
% Barf of ye Queen (Vi a tfenoiKerfleA'
rr)d^ e
*»"»** r" and
steered a ship into it. - ~
The German Line of Steamers. —(Our Special Message.)—London, Thursday. - The coming in-
auguration of'the German line of steariiers to* Australia is creating considerable interest in (icrmany.
The Press there consider that the sailing of the first steamer is a national event, and, this view being
generally held, it is probable that Prince Bismarck will be present ori the occasion.”'
Herr Bismarck :“So ; dat is goot, but if l had send von ship mit big guns on him dose would be a
nationaler event ain’t it 1”
Dan. Dedvy, Who left llei'boi-
ton some month* since toi K 1
vira River, Western Australia,!
tig,ys that men are mad who go
there before the ram. He has
lived 14 weeks oa tla,rnper and
tea, with no sugar. Now that ,
water has given out no/gola can be obtained till the rains m November.
%fa hope to tind " )vpen we do go vye shall postpone our trip till
iifef Swmteh
t, ‘‘l will say, that supposing I had heard that
tho f rench vessels had gone fco the New Heb) ides,
,tho first thing 1 would do would be to cable t<>
’England.”— Mil' P. Jennings to reporter.
The subject matter of that cablegram would
doubtless tend to. “cement the colonies more
,dosely*«o the Dear Old Mother Country,” &c,
Some Events of the Week.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“ The other day, the Duke of Connaught,
having an acquaintanceship with a member Of
the West Indian Commission, was chatting with
Mm in the court, when the party was joined by
the president of the Royal Commission. 4 Allow
toe to introduce to you my brother,' said the
Duke. The commissioner, a little flustered, doubt-
less, did not hear distinctly, and asked innocently,
*« i beg pardon, what did you say the gentleman’s
name was ? ’ The Prince of Wales, laughing
'heartily, told him, and that commissioner’s face
was a study. When the Duchess of Edinburgh
called the other day she wss accompanied by her
little flaxen-haired children, and by the Marquis
of Dome, who, by tbe way, is a daily visitor to
the Victorian court, which he declares to be the
most interesting and best arranged in the Aus-
tralian section at present. The sister of the Czar
remained for nearly half an hour, and expressed
herself much'pleased, particularly with the pictures
of Australian scenery included in Mr. Fletcher’s
admirable collection. Her children were much
'taken by the tastefully-arranged biscuits of
'Swallow and Arlell, and Guest and Cos., which had
just been opened out, and asked to be brought
back on some ocoasion when they could taste
them.” Melb. Argus groveller.
The Grafton Argttb gays that* l*Jrihgtt»*
recent banquet given to Governor Cs rJmgton u<p
there '* member of the Executive Ctim wa
seen to leave the table suddenly. He was back in
an hour beaming with pride. During this time
bis wife had made him a present of a son. His
Excellency got to hear of it and volunteered to
act as godfather. Therefore we sing:—
The vagaries of elegiao verse writers will
never cease to amuse us till we shuffle off, and one
of them writes an obituary poem on us. Then we
shall probably not be amused, and our gibbering
ghost will haunt him till he dies. However, in
the meantime we will cut out from the Melbourne
Age a verse whioh has an espeoial fascination for
us. It is the last of three inserted by a widow In
and concerns her departed husband. She says:—
Then why should my tears run down,
And my heart be severely riven,
For another gem in the Saviour’s crown,
And another bird in heaven.
Bounds pretty well, at first, doesn't it ? It has a
gorgeous ring about it, which must have been
particularly comforting to the bereaved widow.
But if won’t stand analysis. Just conceive the
immortal part of a (perhaps) 14st. man with a (per-
haps) bristly red beard, and (perhaps) a cast Jin his
eye being referred to as a “gem,” and than in the
next breath as a “bird!” Whoever saw a 14st*
gem with a cast in its eye or a bird with a red
beard ? The whole thing is violently grotesque
on the face of it, and yet we suppose it did the
widow good to s?eit in print. Nothing of that sort
for the present bard when we die. Something plain
and to the pointlike this—
He was a noble creature,
With an intellect divine;
Mr. Kirby made his coffin—
The material was pine.
Where he’s now we know not, for such
Knowledge not to us is given;
But hi i latest brea’h was stro \g enough
To waft his soul to Heaven.
* • *
Mr. Justice Boucaut, of S. A., has awakened
to the situation. In passing sentence on our old
ttrlcnd, ■Godfrey Egremont, the learned judge
remarked—"lt seems as if the criminal class are
being reformed, and th;t the eminently re-
sprctable c'asses are becoming criminals.” Yer,
'tis very sad. Nevertheless, as a criminal class is
indispensable to the welfare of our policemen, we
think that the new order of things is the best. A
perjured rogue looks none the more naughty for
being well tailored and clean about the finger
nails. ADathetiehm in crjjpe is in keeping with
our advanced ideas. We positively look forward
to the time when murderers will make their last
breakfast off a lily in full bloom, and languish on
the drop with a sunflower pinned upon the left
shoulder.—
The newly-created knights baohelors have
honestly earned their distinction. Yes; Sir James
M’Bain and Cos. have more than earned knight-
hood, for they are required to pait with a £2OO
fee over the job. We think they showed rashness
in accepting the handle on such terms. The same
money judiciously laid out, in Spain, would buy
three or four dukedoms.
THE PARSON OF THE FUTURE.
“A novel application was made by a
minister in Whangarei (N.Z.) to the Auckland
Presbytery. He recently passed the law examina
tion, and asked for leave to practise as a solicitor,
continuing his work as a minister at a reduced
salary. The secretary thought it a dangerous
proposal, but referred the matter to his congrega-
tion.”
What a theologio novelty this preacher must be I
Fancy I
He proposes, and the proposition almost turns
our brain,
To relinquish a proportion of Heaven’s wages for
the chance he
Has of wresting from Sathanas wages for de-
fending Cain I
What a singular anomaly ’twould be to see a par-
son
Who on Sunday a parishioner had joined to a
sweet bride,
lEre a week had passed, retained to prove him
guilty, say, of arson,
And defame and slang the witnesses upon the
other side !
imagine, if you can do so, this parson taking
tea with
A communicant, and telling of a Love that ne’er
yet flagged,
On that same day hiving pocketed a rather tidy
fee, with
This one ftipulation—that the same communi-
cant be lagged !
Strain your mental visual powers to place before
you, as a photo.,
This exceedingly strange minister dilating on the
Pit-
WarniDg you to shun the flowery ways that lead
unending woe to,
And the following morning calling with a dif-
ferent sort of Writ 1
Picture (this we think you oan do) how unerringly
and keenly
He would weave all deadly evidence round some-
one of his flock
Who had to the offertory given but sparingly and
meanly
And whom Heavenly justice might have placed
before him in the dock 1
Or imagine him inducting some youth into ways
diviner,
Urging him in Bible language to avoid all
Satan’s nets;
Then advising him, upon the plea of being yet a
minor,
To let several clamorous tradesmen go to Blazes
for his debts 1
.'Likewise, think of this position as a possible effect
of
'Such a dual occupation: Parson Smithers calls
on Smith
Who is dying, as a sort of legal-clerical detective,
Tells him that a crown awaits him—that the
Crown, in dealing with
fa InDtatment as a horse-stealer, will surely be
x vdefeated
0 wftpg partly to his death, and partly to his
A«W3»er’« Bkill—
That hv "* <l ® aB wil1 reach the place where equal -* 118 '
tice meted—
That ’tis to bow before the Lord ’ 8 * and fix
uphis,-» wn ’ wml
Further still, c. this pardon saying "Bind-
gera is a sai pious, pure, and gener-
Ever yet there o roh „
ou ! t0 ch . u -uediately, as counsel for the
As a pastor; then im.
plaintiff, q to leave this selfsame
Moving earth and he.
L Bludgers in the lurch
mithers, who is level-
Also look at it in this light: h
headed, omer, a strict com-
Has among his flock a new-c
muni cant Miss Pentecost
Who will shortly to the wealthy ol>
be wedded, •ws, jj M <j on e
And who, Smithers, as a lawyer, km
a big levant
Smithers,
From his missus and his creditors. Does
then, dissuade him withers
From the crime? Oh, ho!—the Parson Sn
strongly ties the kEOt;
Then the Lawyer Smithers, when the parson’s .
ner has been paid him,
Is retained for the defence, and makes th
charges pretty hot!
Oh, a shining earthly happiness awaits the Church,
if it will
Be allowed to blend the service of the stainless
Lord of Hosts
With the servioe of the Devil, and tha “steepends”
deficit will:
Be abundantly made up for in the way of legal
costs!
Let every loyal face relax into a loyal smile,
And from his loyal head let each remove his loyal
tile;
We sing of royal stomachs pleased, and Wales In
merry mood,
Which happy faots should send through us a thrill
of gratitude.
We never shall be sad again, for nearly every day
Lome visits the Australian courts to pats the time
away;
He condescends to leave awhile his very royal
sphere,
While gratified Commissioners " shout ” him
colonial beer.
And Wales, too, comes in quiet style, without his
golden crown,
So that he is not recognised by strangers to the
town;
When introduced to persons who don't know his
royal phiz,
With beaming smile and hearty laugh he tells
them who he is.
London may have her thousands crying for a crust
of bread,
And starving men and women tell that famine
rears her head;
But this is nothing now we know a wish has been
expressed
By Edinburgh’s kids to taste the biscuits made by
Guest.
So let us once more slobber round, and loyally
reoite
What every royal party does from morning until
night.
And always breathe this wish while telling loyal
little tales,
" God save the Quefn and likewise Albert Edward
Prince of Wales.”
THE EYES AND THE NOSE.
A Sydney clergyman says! “How can you expect men and women to be moral when
they walk through filthy streets to a Beautiful Harbour reeking with vile pollutions.”
HE; "WOULDN’T OUR BEAUTIFUL HARBOUR BE LUBLY IF YOU HADN’T TO HOLD
YOUR DOZE?"
Hear it, O 3 eff eris! Take a note, O Ryar-
dinal I The Maharajah Dhuleep Singh, after a
long spell of Christianity, has quietly recanted and
announced his determination to die a Hindoo.
Almost he was persuaded to be a Christian, but a
uigthened residence in England has caused him
think better ef it. The harp, pleas?
A NARROW ESCAPE.
the breadth of the British dominions
Throu , e wonderful story be told,
Lat tL '(n<doo has changed his opinions—
That afa has slipped out of our fold;
A sheep ne ,a witb earg a u enraptured
We’ve lists. arson? frequently tell
To yarns p. our brothers have captured,
About heathe we were getting on well.
And thought . . ~ , . ,
s brave Maharaj ih
Can it be that th> bed ne w light ?
On religion has t rkey get i arger
As the views of ad. i empt fo- tie white?
D )es he gain a con v with our nation
Having mixed up abi teks of the race,
And learned all tha tr \ Hindoo damnation
Does he think, then, tha; 9e< | .• grace> »
Is better than Christiam , . .
m cow is broken—
’Twould seem so. The cha* • this blow;
Our hopes are destroyed by j,as spoken
Since the voice of the Hindoo
In fear for the future we go.
This Rajah a fair show has given p | a j n _
To the “ doctrines of truth ” it.
And by honest conviction Is driven
To the faith of his fathers again.
O happy Grafton citizen,
What gauly joy is thine—
To have a son while you did with
His Excellency dine!—
To have a son, and when you came
Back to the festive board
To jearn that little son would have
For godfather a lord!
0, it is too much glory, this;
Too muoh of joy for one!
Not many men get so muoh pride
Out of a little son.
Of course you’ll give to him his pap
All iu a silver spoon;
And when he howls aloud for it
You’ll promise him the moon.
And, when he's older grown, you’ll let
Him do as he’ll damplease,
And with a proud humility
Will serve him on your knees.
And let him on horse-races bet,
And play at nap and 100,
And freely “ part ” the coin whene’er
He sends the bills to you.
He’ll briDg your gray hairs to the grave
With sorrow, you will see,
If you’re not careful when he’s male—
Sad fate!—a C.M.G.
Then you will mourn, but all too late,
And curse that festive board
For giviDg your unhappy son
For godfather a lord.
UP AND DOWN.
Oh I Time with Its whirligig brings
Strange changes about in society,
Gents, now do most singular things
We notice with growing anxiety—
And especially those who wear elegant clothes
And make a profession of piety—
More especially such as on no account touch
Strong drink, but go in for sobriety.
The code of their morals is loose,
For “ prigging they show a proclivity;
They’re rushing headlong to the dooca
With fearfully fevered activity;
A swell in a bank, of position and rank,
Considered as ” right as a trivet,” he
Is often so rash as to collar the cash
(Which disgraces his name and nativity).
Once men of the criminal class
Went in for rough ways and profanity—
But now they In manners surpass,
And charm by their polished urbanity;
The thieves of old days have mended their ways
And voted all wickedness vanity—
But, up in their place has sprung this new race,
’Tis just a see-saw of humanity.
HONOURS DIVIDED.
All titles are noble, we know,
On the wearers much bliss they confer;
Many men are ambitious to go
To their graves with the prefix of " Sir; ”
The Queen to mark merit delights
(C.M.G.-ships are on the increase),
So she's just made some gentlemen knights,
And it oost ’em two hundred a pieee.
Though titles are noble, we gueds
(“ Sir Something ” sounds jammy and nice)
’Twere well if they oost a bit less—
They are doocedly dear at this price.
When our monarch long-service requires,
She oughtn’t her subjects to iieece
By creating them gingerbread knights,
At a cost of two hundred a piece.
Plain “ Mr.” we rather would live,
For kDighthood, it seems, is a “ fake ”
Which blesses the people who give
And robs the poor beggars who take;
If we do not stand up for our rights,
This game isn’t likely to cease—
They’ll make the whole lot of us knights,
And charge us two hundred apiece.
The Bell of the Ly-ee-Moon.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“ The horror of the scene was heightened
by the slow ringing of the ship’s bell as the shat-
tered hull went down.”
Ah my lore, my love I In the garden olden
Bbei said Forever I mine own, mine ownl”
eyes were true, and the world was golden
And the sunset swooned among roses, blown
In a radiant day by an linglish river,
_ And she said again, “ I believe, I wait;
To thy heart mine answers a brave “ Forever,”
And my love can triumph o’er years and fate.
We still but children, unscarred and scathe-
Of life and trial—ah me! ah me!
For my heart is dead and my love is faithless,
And I curse the crime of the envious sea,
wet skies weep and the wan waves shiver
Where I wander rebellious and desolate—
Ah, the false words said by the English river!
Ah, the scornful strength of the mad, blind Fate!
She had r'tten lately, “ The strife is over
And the > ears have crowned us; a marriage-bell
In my ear is sounding. I come, sweet lover,
To the faithful arms that have waited well,”
Waited, but to wait, through a bitter shedding
Of tears, till they reach to her, late or soon—
For the bridegroom, Death, at my darling s wed-
ding
Laughed and tolled the bell of the Ly-ee-Moon!
J. FARRELL.
At Night.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Alone in the forest—alone with the dead,
The driving clouds sweeping the branches o’er-
head;
The moaning wind’s cadences filling the gloom
With the ghosts of the past in array from the
tomb.
The creaking of branches, the surging wind’s
howl,
Down the deep forest alleys awaken the owl
The boding-voloed nightbird that peoples the
gloom
With the fltfullest fantasies spun from the tomb.
01 Man by God-given companionship bleat,
As I think of your lot, at my spirit’s behest,
The pall of despair half descends on my own.
And the spirit of Eavy enforceth a moan.
To-night the dark veil of Uarest—Unbelief—
Enwrappeth my vision, and like to a thief
I hear my pulse throbbing—lone wavelets of
sound—
Mid the pauses of nature, above and around.
May 13.1886
J.M.
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
All your own fault if you remain, s ck or
out of health, when you can get Hop Bitters made
by American Co Read
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
.floral decorations, Hunter-street
Don’tbeput off with any fictitious brand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the genuine article.


Political
Points
The Welch vernacular press goes solidly
and fiercely for Home Rule. Merciless rack-rent
ing is at the root of the agitation.
While the British revenue from intoxi-
cating liquors has fallen by £4 500 000 in ten years,
the expenditure upon the army and navy has in-
creased in the last two years by £4.5e0 000.
Would it be ungenerous to ask if there is
any possible connection between Mr. Dailey’s in-
dispositions and the nights when that Divorce Bill
is before the Council ? The action of some pro-
minent men in the Lower House may help to a
reply.
Parkes and G. M. Reid will join, say some
wise folks. Do they forget, or did they never hear
of the uncicatrised wound caused by that keen
thrust at “ Bast Sydney’s last year's cuckoo ? ” G.
H. R. now says he could rather coneeive of him-
self committing bigamy than joining Parkes.
Summary of the land-question in Eng-
land :
A is defrauded of his land by B,
Who’s driven from the premises by C
D buys the place with coin of plundered E.
“ That A’s a Communist! ” says F to G.
The committee on the Medical Bill intro-
duced by Dr. Tarrant to the N.B.W. Assembly will
not recommend it. A committee in that House
never will. Set a quack to catch a quack is very
good, but can it be hoped that a company mostly
quacks will combine to render quacking im-
possible ?
“Twenty-five new Habitations of that
great Conservative organisation, the Primrose
League, have been formed, and over 13,000 persons
have joined the league.” There have been so
many English noblemen “in trouble” lately'that
we suppose, the Tory papers, when they talk of
Primrose League “ Habitations,” mean gaol.
The Melbourne Agb on Chamberlain:—
“The radical member for Birmingham comes out
of this (opposition to Gladstone) with reputation
irreparably damaged. He is eloquent as a dema-
gogue, and able as a departmental administrator,
but lacks self-control and power of handl'ng men,
which form the indispensable qualifications of a
great statesman.” Chamberlain on the Age would
be spicy.
Rev. Mr. Poole, of the Ly-ee-moon, would
help us when the Building Act comes before the
N S.W. Assembly. He regardsthe man who builds
on a rotten or foul foundation, plants his family or
another man’s family on a fever-plot, as nearly as
guilty as the officer who runs his ship ashore and
his passengers and crew into the jaws of death. He
is quite right, but he says it in the pulpit, not in
Parliament.
Thus the Sydney correspondent of The
Australasian: “I am in favour of giving our
M.P.’s £6OO, or even £BOO a year, when their
number has been reduced by about one-half, and
the constituencies are given a chanoe of picking
men deserving of that salary. But, then, i would
relieve them all of those gold railway and tramway
passes now suspended on their Parliamentary
watch chains.”
Bradlaugh says he will at his first oppor-
tunity bring in a Land Bill imposing by law upon
every landholder the duty of cultivating his land
to the best of its reasonable ability; and that any
man who possessed land capable of cultivation
with profit, and who failed to cultivate it, or who
utilised it for the purpose of game or luxury, and
not for any purpose of public or reasonable pri-
vate enjoyment, should be held to be guilty of
misdemeanour. A re-enactment of an old Roman
law, in fact.
Ireland must not mourn any longer now.
She can throw aside her sackloth and ashes and
dance her national jigs as soon as she chooses.
Gaunson, of Melbourne, has tabled a motion in
the Viotorian Assembly that “ that House cordially
sympathises with the effort of Her Majesty’s
government in England to more firmly knit the
empire by restoring Home Rule to the ancient
and honourable kingdom of Ireland.” Hurroo l
Mr. Gaunson will probably get himself biffed out
on his noble forehead if he continues in this
philanthropic strain.
“Dodo,” in Reynolds, devotes a parA-
graph to the Society for the Propagation of the
Gospel among Landlords. The objects of the
association are to induce the proprietors, by
means of an appeal to their finer moral sentiments,
to abandon ground-rents and lay up treasure in
heaven instead. But it has been the meanest kind
of a failure. So has the Society for the spread of
Humanity among Dukes, and the League for the
Conversion to Christianity of Anglican Vicars, and
the Combination for Promoting Morality in
British Princes. You might as well try to raise a
crop from paving-stones.
Writes The Bulletin’s London corre-
spondent under date 23rd April: —“I attended a
mass meeting held at St. James’ Hall, last night, in
support of Gladstone's Irish policy. Labouohere
occupied the chair, and the proceedings were of
the liveliest description. Charles Bradlaugh, I
should mention, was at the head of the chuckers-
out- Those who have read Headingley’a biography
of Bradlaugh will remember that he has had
plenty of experience in this sort
that he is altogether a muscular atheist. His fight
with the soldier in Chapter 111. of that work reads
as well as anything in ‘ Boxiana.’ ”
“In England,” says Vanity Fair, '* the
rule is to make nobody a member of the Upper
House unless he has £30,000 a year; in Ireland the
necessary income is put down at £2OO. A nice lot
they would be.” No doubt they would. This
high-dried Tory evidently thinks nobody with less
than £30,000 per annum has brains enough to be a
legislator The idea of a man worth (say) £250 a
year being able to govern a nation is more than
he can comprehend. As it happens, even his main
facts are wrong, but ono head can hardly be
expected to contain both figures and intellect, and
a man can run a Conservative paper without
either. Blessed are the poor, for they shall be sat
upon by Vanity Fair.
London Times supports Captain Columb’s
idea for the establishment of a Federal Arsenal in
Australia. The caDtain suggests that Albury or
Wentworth would be a good spot, where we could
manufacture our own destroying-angels out of
the immediate reach of an invader. The idea is
food, for we may require to hit Germany or
ranee, or even England, in the eye some day, but
we would suggest that Wiloannia or Mount
Browne would oe a trifle safer and more central.
Von Moltke's troopers, if they ever did land,
would not take long to walk from Melbourne to
the N.S.'V. border, even if we tore up the railway
lines, and then we would have no resource but to
blow ourselves up and retire.
The prospects of Imperial penny-postage
are growing brighter, and if the latest rumours
from Germany have any foundation in faot wo
will shortly reoeive a helping hand from that
quarter. It is reported the German authorities
intend reducing their rates to Australia to 2% per
half-ounce, and if this is done it is impossible tor
Britain to maintain her existing charges. Un-
doubtedly, Hennlker Heaton’s idea is a magnifi-
cent one, and, as the originator of the project of a
cheap ocean post, he desires the utmost credit.
Tbat he should have been visited by such an in-
spiration, shows in what unexpected quarters the
light of genius is occasionally reflected. It shone
on Balaam's ass once, which was certainly a case
in point.
When the ignorant begin to moralise the
wise man has an opportunity to stand upon his
hind legs and think. This is not a Chinese proverb,
but it ought to be one, and it is suggested for the
benefit of the Dean of Chi .taester. That reverend
fossil suggests that “ until the Gladstonian
tyranny be overpast” a pause should be made
after the words “and her dominions” in the
prayer for the High Court of Parliament, in order
that the audience in the drftsa-circle may “dart up
a prayer to God ” agaiost Home Buie for Ireland,
marriage with a deceased wife's sister, and other
thiDgs of the kind, which the Premier is supposed
to favour. Why cannot the dean do his own
“darting,” and why does he not make a pause also
after the words “ and all the Royal Family ” in an-
other part of the service, so tnat those who do
not want to include Battenberg may have time to
explain the fsc‘ and mentally kick him out of
their devotions?”
Mr. Shiels, the ladies’ man of (he Victorian
Assembly, promises to wake ’em up a bit during
the present session. Shiels has made a fair start
by “ challenging the best friend of Mr. Gillies to
say what benevolent cause he had ever assisted,
what kindly act he had ever done, or what sympa-
thies he had ever shown for principle or party.”
The head of the Government, according to Shiels,
is guilty of snobbery in signing documents—
“ Duncan Gillies—Premier.” But the maligned
statesman has a precedent for this action. Beacons-
field was the first to describe himself as Premier,
and other great (colonial) statesmen have fol-
lowed the lead. And there is, at least, one kindly
act ascribed to Mr. “ Duncan Gil Jts,JPremier.”
Did he not once lavish a penny gratuity upon an
ungrateful hotel servant? Yes, Mr. Shiels is a
promising young man, and a fiery young man, at
times, but he must remember Dunoan's penny and
the dear old proverb—be just before you are un-
generous.
John Pilkinton is the prominent victim
to the iniquity of the English sooial system. He
had been out of work for 11 weeks, during which
HONOUR AMONG—"SPIELERS.”
In the Sydney Domain. 'ARRY: “ARE WE GOIN’ TO PLAY FAIR NOW, OR ALL WE
KNOW?”
time he had diligently searched for employment
of any kind whatever. With his wife and ohildren
he had to subsist as best he could, but at last,
when the whole family had been without any
food whatever for two days, he went out into the
street and stole a 410. loaf from a baker's cart.
The magistrate before whom the case was brought
discharged the prisoner and recommended his case
to the relieving-Gfflcer for the district. In this he
acted with less of law but more of mercy than did
another demon of justice recently who sentenced
a starving woman to a month’s hard labour for
stealing a couple of turnips. Some critics of the
case are very indignant, because, as they put it,
“ This would go to prove that starvation is justi-
fication for theft.” Bo it is. The man had either
to murder his family and suicide himself, or com-
mit a theft. He wisely and rightly did the latter.
The Peel River Co.’s estate of something
like a-quarter of a million of acres, is just outside
Tam worth an old town which groweth
not and cannot grow. The land is owned by share-
holders in London. whose revenues will be beauti-
fully swollen by the railways the colonists’ money
has mpde. Just now, one of the finest post and
telegraph offioes in the colony has been opened at
this place at a cost of some thousands of pounds,
and now Tamworth is diving in again to get the
railway wsrkshops built there. To give the town
a send along (not for their own benefit, mark you)
this wealthy absentee company has offered a piece
of land for the workshops. Astounding generosity 1
The men who hold a vast territory which, if suo-
divided, would make Tamworth the third or fourth
town of N.S.W., but the revenuesof which, instead
of being spent in the districts that pays all the
taxes, go into the pockets of London magnates,
actually offer to give back to the community an
aore or so of the land they got for rothing years
ago I
Dr. Ross, M.L A. for Molong in the N.S. W.
Assembly, propose] that dummying be made a
capital offence. Ho says that even under the new
Act the dummy pursues the even tenor of his base
ways, annexes his choice spots, makes his im-
provements and his declarations on oath-selects,
squats, and rakes in the shekels just as of yore.
The doctor avers that there is a certain man (and
he names him, too) i" he Molong district who
oouid give Lazarus poiuu, and then beat him in a
poverty competition, and yet this man recently
took up 320 acres on a certain run, and another
320 acres the week following. Now, apart from
the compulsory expenses of fencing and improv-
ing, the man who selects 640 acres of land is re-
quired to put up £64 in hard cash, so that this
champion pauper of Molong mus% according to
Dr. Koss's statement, have found an influential
friend, who not only gave him the deposit-money,
but must be perfectly agreeable to keep and re-
ward him for five years. Should the doctor be
able to sustain his charge there should be a couple
of prosecutions, however, for it is perfectly certain
there would be no dummies if (here were no land-
grabbers, and of the two, the latter are by far the
more culpable.
A Queensland correspondent writes us
as follows:—“Dear Bulletin,— Sir A. Stephen’s
Divorce Extension Bill is permissive not compul-
sory. I mean that if it became law, no one need
take advantage of its provisions who does not
wish to do so. Bishop Barry’s objection to the
measure is untenable, even if his main contention
(that the Btate has no right to dissolve marriages
which are sacred) be admitted. For all marriages
are not sacred. Perfect liberty of conscience is
the right of every freeman, and one has as good a
right to say whether his own marriage is saored
or not, as he has to say whether or not a certain
form of worship is divine. Bishop Barry cannot
deny the existence of this rigbt without an ex-
pression in favour of intolerance that would
bring him into opposition to many of the noblest
professors of his own faith- a position quite inde-
fensible. If, then, a man or woman wishes, as
things are now, to dissolve a marriage which is
held by him or herself (the only competent
authority) to be not sacred, he or she can-
not do so without being disgraced in the eye
of law. This is unjust. The State has no
religion. It should favour none and thwart none
And an amendment of the law which grants this
liberty to those who wish to use it, while leaving
sacred marriages as they are, should meet with no
opposition from anyone. Bishop Barry’s and
Cardinal Moran’s respective fl jcks are not inter-
fered with. The point I wish to impress upon you
is contained in the first two periods. The re-
mainder is intended to make my meaning more
dear. I would not presume to address my political
preceptor (which you are) upon such a subject, in
such a manner, but that the point has been over-
looked in every defence of the Bill I have seen,
and I consider this line of argument a very strong
one. However, I suppose the fate of the Bill de-
pends less upon argument than upon the number
of hypocrites in the present Assembly and Coun-
cil who are game to act honestly for once. I may
mention that I have written didactically for the
Ba ' eof brevity. lam the humblest of mad shep-
herds.—Yours, &c., A. L.”
The opening-in-person of the new Vio-
torian Parliament fell so uncommonly flat that it
is questionable whether the pageant will be re-
peated. Sir Henry Loch will probably put his
butler on to the dreary job next time. There was
the usual force of gun-firing when His Excellenoy
left Government House. The regality of that
ceremony lost its significance from the fact that
none of the Melbourne people seemed to know
what the noise was all about. Nineteen men out
of every twenty had forgotten or never kDew
that Parliament was to be opened “ in person ” on
June Ist. Their absolute indifference to the mo-
mentous event was the cause of much distress to
His Excellency. As he rode along in a cocked bat,
accompanied by two aides-de-camp (also in cocked
hats) and preceded by a gorgeous array of police-
men, not a single eye quailed before the magnifi-
cence of the spectacle. Nobody looked that way,
in fact. Outside Parliament house the frost was
equally severe. A small knot of idlers viewed His
Excellency’s advent with stony indifference. The
Aqe reporter appears to have heard the cheers
of the assembled multitude, but they were
audible to no other living soul, Even the un-
truthful and eensation-loving Herald lacked the
hardihood to invent more than “ a faint
cheer.” As a matter of fact, there wasn’t any at
all, and, as for the “multitude,” it might have made
a substantial meal off a eouple of loaves and three
small fishes and left lots remaining for the
Governor. Fortunately Messrs. Gillies, Deakin and
Co., or their myrmidons, had taken the precaution
to organise a claque. The workmen engaged on
the left wing of the House were drawn up in
brave array on the steps, and as the official crowd
hurried by the claque supplied them with a recep-
tion. The foreman gave the word, and then fol-
lowed the only cheer which disturbed the strict
decorum of the whole show. A moment after-
wards the men scampered back to their work and
silence rtigned supreme. Whoever conceived the
happy thought of sticking those workmen on the
steps deserves well of Sir Henry Loob. Without
theii kind enthusiasm the opening of Parliament
“in person” would have been several degrees
more solemn than a Quaker’s funeral.
That most inglorious of London Jingo
prints, Society, has, we Bee, been squelched and
“ incorporated ” into the State (of drivel), a new
Conservative venture, edited by one Jfgmont
Hake. Mr. Hake is understood to be a nephew of
tbat illustrious crank. “ Chinese ” Gordon, and has
gained some notoriety—it is easy to become noto-
rious in London if you’re anybody’s nephew—by
Hakeing, or “ faking ” certain volumes of corres-
pondence and so on relative to the career of the
plucky lunatic, his uncle. But this is all by the
way. Our present business is with the following
absurd copy of verses which adorned the first
issue of the State aforesaid :
There is no recruiting medicine so prompt
and efficient as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Parents, do not use vile drugs or nostrums
in your families, but use pure Hop Bitters made
only by American Co, See and read
The divided skirt seems to find few patrons
notwithstanding: that at a fashionable ball recently
held in London, every lady had to appear so garbed.
Like many other articles of attire for ladies, it will
need introducing by the leaders of the gentler sex
who usher in the results of artists such as Worth,
wilde, &o. It goes without saying that you can
always get the latest styles in sets for table or room
decorations fromjthe well-known caterers of Glass
and China, whose place is in George-street, oppo-
site the Joint Stock Bank, and who are always
showing what is wanted in this way. We were
very pleased with our visit to Bray Bros.*
The world-renow; *d tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“PRIMROSE DAY, APRIL 19.
“ We look to-day towards Hughenden,
Where dwelt our Disraeli;
For seldom shall we see again
A statesman such as he.
“ The little children rush from play
To where primroses grow,
That for this loyal holiday
So plentifully blow.
“ Their fresh, young voices rise and ring
Along the lanes and fields;
To them the early rose of spring
A little harvest yields.
“ These are their goldfields onoe a year,
And all some treasure find,
Such fragrant dowers they homeward bear,
So few they leave behind.
“ But where around the grave they spread,
The children do not go:
They leave them for the honoured dead
Who is at rest below.
“ It was our statesman’s favourite flower;
He died while ’twas in bloom:
This very day, this very hour
It clusters round his tomb.”
Taking down the melodious office bullock-bell,
we proceed:—
Pbimrose Day.
Towards Hughenden we look to-day,
For there did D zzy dweil,
And in his place now holdeth sway
The good Sir Samu-el
The Tory statesman—crafty, cool—
By JiDgo mobs adored,
Is followed by the name of wool,
Who wants to be a lord.
Ben. Dizzy loved the pale primrose—
Yea, loved it very well;
Sir Samuel, too, is one of those
Who reverence its smell.
So. knowing this, the Jingo orowd.
On one day of the year,
For love of Ben. and Sam. are proud
The primrose sweet to wear.
The city clerklings when they go
Outside to get their lunch,
Say: ‘‘Tnis is Primrose Day, you know,”
And buy a penny bunch.
While hundreds catch the early trains,
Or pilgrimages make
O'er dewy meads, through fragrant lanes—
For Ben. and Samuel’s sake.
They go to see the silent tomb
Where dead Ben. Dizzy restr,
And to gaze upon the dining-room
Where Sammy feeds his guests.
The men who go to Hughenden
To come away are loth;
The home of Sam., the grave of Ben.—
May angels guard ’em both I
And when one Tory quits this earth,
Ohl may we ever And
That another one of equal worth
Takes the place he left behind.
BEALE &£OMPANY
City Show Booms,
886 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-stroet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of BEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine.
BEALE & CO.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


SOCIALS
On Thursday afternoon, at Government
House, Sydney, Lady Carington was At Home.
About 100 ladies and 20 gentlemen assembled and
availed themselves of the pleasure of having a
small chat with her ladyship, and afterwards st'ol-
ling about the well-kept, pretty grounds, or play-
ing tennis. The gentlemen were very scarce,
owing, no doubt, to the fact that Lord Carington
accompanied by a number of his A.sD C. ant
gentlemen guests, were absent in the country for
a few days. Lady Carington wore on this ocoasion
a pretty and simple gown of golden-brown cash-
mere, small bonnet and white veil; the Hon.
Judith Harbord looked well in a light maroon
cashmere dress, with high black hat. Amongst the
well-dressed visitors were the two Misses Watt, in
neat and well-fitting dark blue serge gowns with
exceedingly stylish bats of blaok straw, turned up
at the back and trimmed in front with scarlet
feathers. Mrs. Charles Hogg wore a very stylish
bronze and dark blue costume, small bronze
bonnet with sparkling ornaments in front; Mrs.
Dixon, a handsome cream brocaded material
fitting and made well; Miss Hill, a canarv-coloured
plush and stuff costume; Mrs. S. A. Joseph, black
dress with handsome velvet dolman; a remarkable
dress was of violet and heliotrope velvet com-
bined; another very pretty and stylish costume
was made of some soft material the colour of
sand: this was ingeniously mingled with dark
crimson silk, the whole effect being at once bright
and yet strictly harmonious; a neat and stylish
gown was a tailor made grey tweed, with fine and
almost invisible threads of red, blue, and gold
running - through it—a high black hat finished this
particularly elegant costume.
* * *
On Tuesday evening, June Ist., about 200
ladies and gentlemen found themselves partaking
of Admiral Tryon’s well-known hospitality. The
gardens and grounds of Admiralty House were
just as beautifully and gorgeously decorated and
illuminated as they were the week before, on the
occasion of the Admiral’s first dance. The only
small disappointment on Tuesday evening was the
non-appearance of his Excellency and Lady Car-
ington, but, in spite of that, all eDjoyed them-
selves immensely. Amongst the guests were Lady
Manning and the two Missss Manning, Colonel and
Mrs. Roberts, Sir George and Lady Innes, Mrs. and
the Misses Darley, Sir Alfred Roberts, Mr. and Miss
Josephson, Captain Lake, Captain Hamilton, Mr.
Pakenham, Lord Bertie, Captain Milward, Mr. and
Mrs. Moriarty, &c. Mrs. W. Gilchrist’s gown of
smoke-grey satin was universally admired, also
her splendid diamond jewellery. Mrs. J. White’s
costume of embossed white velvet with pale-blue
tablier was most handsome; Lady Innes wore an
elegant dress of brown satin opening over a front
of ficelle lace; Mrs. Russell, an admired dress of
cream satin and lace; Mrs. Austin, very elegant
dress of black French Jace over white silk; Mrs.
Robilliard, a stylish and tasteful toilette of cream
satin with crimson facings; Miss Mitchell, a strik-
ing dress of black and white striped silk; Mrs.
Monteflore, a much-admired cream satin costume.
• * *
The Sydney daily papers, whioh with one
voice are howliog for the blood of Holt and for
the political blood of the Attorney-General, Mr.
Jack Want—who, it is covertly insinuated, unduly
favoured him—are possessed of most convenient
memories. The Evening News, for example, said
the other day that Holt was “the most consum-
mate swindler since Miranda.’’ Holt swindled
quite enough in all conscience, but it is absurd to
compare him in any way with Miranda. The
News quite forgets its old friend Treeve. And all
the daily papers choose to forget the case of a
man—one of the curled darlings of Sydney “sas-
siety ’’—who but the other day disappeared from
view into a lunatic asylum—a certain set of fashion-
ables say be is mad, and as the official doctors, too,
seem to think so, possibly he is mad—now. Well,
not one word about that man’s case was ever said
by any one of the Sydney daily papers,
whioh were, each and all, cognisant of the
infamous facts. Holt stole some thousands,
and has paid, or will pay all his creditors,
including those whom he has robbed, pretty
close up to 20s. in the pound. The other man,
about whom not a syllable was breathed in
the daily press, and all reoord of whose misdeeds
was as carefully suppressed as though there had
been an organised conspiracy to keep it out of
print, was just upon a hundred thousand pounds to
the bad. It is said that he has £5O 000 assets (they,
however, are taken by secured creditors, children
of this world) but how many unfortunates—
hard-working governesses, widows with boarding-
houses, small capitalists investing their last cent—
who trusted the man professionally because he was
“ well-connected ” are hopelessly ruined ? Yet
never a word have we heard about that man who,
after effecting so many cunning swindles in so
sane a way, conveniently went “mad.” Sydney so-
ciety is a whited sepulchre, and the virtuous in-
dignation of the dailies with regard to the Holt
case is mostlv political. Any stick will do to beat
a dog with? Will the S.M. Hebald, Evening
News, and D.T, kindly oblige by copying this
paragraph. Is it, oris it not true, that this “in-
sane ” solicitor is now “advised to go to England
for his health?" Unless some member of Parlia-
ment publicly enquires, the jib may be consum-
mated.
* * *
The “mad” trick is an excellent one in
Sydney. A few years ago an individual closely
related to a high legal dignitary in N.S.W. did a
little bit of horse-stealiDg, or something, and was
arrested through some lamentable oversight on
the part of a policeman who was either ignorant
of the moke-annexor's pedigree, or else—which
is almost incredible-had no respect for consti-
tuted authority. Well, the ge tlemanly horse-
stealer snatched the constable’s revolver am) badly
wounded its owner. Horse-stealer wss tried
and convicted on the capital charge, but being
“ well-bred” was found to be insane-was sent to
Gladesville asylum— escap-d—*nd is now enjoying
himself very much indeed in Queensland, whence
he writes remaraably sane epistles to his affec-
tionate relatives. The N.S.W. police didn't seem
to trouble about him. And yet, since then, two
men who were not “ well-connected ’’—one of
them was undoubtedly mad - have been hanged in
N B.W. for wounding with intent to kiill
* * »
Bertrand, who killed Mr. Kinder, whose
wife he loved, made the N.S.W. authorities believe
him insane for years. If Bertrand had been suffi-
ciently well-connected, he'd now be kicking his
heels up in Queensland a'so.
* * *
The writer of this, by the way, took the
trouble the other day to go through a pamphlet
containing a verbatim report of the historical Ber-
trand trial. It is indeed astoundiog that the N.S.W.
public have such short memories. Anything is
possible, socially, in Sydney. If you don’t believe
this, read the pamphlet—or the S.M. Herald file
will do.
* * *
We are a9ked to contradict the rumour
that Mr. Dan. O’Connor, M L. A., is about to ban-
quet Mr. Burke, and alter the feast present him
with a purse of sovereigns. There i 3 no truth in
the report whatever.
* * *
Cora Pearl, a once dashing Cyprian, lives
in a modest little crib in Paris, dhe has published
her memoirs, but as they were as modest as her
heme, they fell fiat. We have not heard that a
lately-deserted lady in Sydney is going to write
hers. They wouldn’t fall fiat.
* * *
Lord Capel and Baron de Tuyll who
have been in Sydney some two months, have gone
off to China in the Taiwan, Whether a book
on Australia Is to be the result of their visit or not
is not known. But the one thiDg against it is
that they have been too long in the colonies to
give deep and valuable advice to our senators. A
week is the usual book-maker’s time.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Westgarth, of Elizabeth Bay,
gave a most successful ball on Wedneslay evening
the 2nd inst. The garden and grounds were to
have been lighted with electric light, but the
engine went wrong in some way and would not
work. However, Chinese lanterns were pressed
into the service, and, as usual, looked artistic and ,
ornamental suspended in the air. A small amount of
electric light illumined the room?, and its presence
amongst the flowers and decorations generally,
made an extremely Dretty and fascinating effect.
All the arrangements in regard to refreshments,
supper, music. &0., were capital; nothing seemed
wanting. Dancing commenced about 9 p.m. and
was kept up with unflagging spirit until after
2a m. The hostess looked charming in an exceed-
ingly becoming gown of white satin and tulle,
with pearl trimmings and jewellery. Miss West-
garth wore a very handsome dress of amber satin
and tulle; Mrs. Angus, an admired oostume of
black and gold; Miss Wilkinson, a pretty silver-
grey dress; Mrs. Bingham Taomas wore a beoom-
iDg frock of brown net with velvet bodice cut V
shape; Mrs. M’Namara, a pretty dress of pale blue
satin profusely trimmed witn cream lace; Miss
Jenkins, a fanciful gown of pale blue satin finished
off with red beads; Miss Josenh, a French costume
of pink and green; Mrs. Valliant, a handsome
black satin and lace dress; Miss Valliant, elegant
cream satin and lace frock.
* * *
A correspondent from Cairns (N.Q.) com-
plains that the girls up there are all marrying.
Tbis complaint is well founded, as we hoar of
several engagements; among others rumour says
Miss Milford is to be led to the altar by Mr. Stout.
Our correspondent also complains that fever is
raging at the same time as the wedding epidemic.
Perhaps one will cure the other.
* N= *
Lord Cairns—our own Gumboil, only worse
—went from Cannes to Paris, where, we are told,
to our great delight, that “Mrs. Grant and her
daughter are obtaining a fitting trousseau for the
future Countess.” The marriage comes off in June,
and Wales is to superintend the business. As is
now generally known, it was on this Prince’s ad-
vice that Gummy threw over Mis 3 Forteseue, and
Wales wishes to reward the “ obedient boy.”
* * *
A grand ball was given by the Corporation
of London at the Guildhall last Friday. Out of
5000 guests 1000 were colonials.
• * m
Sir Hercules Robinson will leave London
for the Cape on the 17th inst., having, all Austra-
lians will be glad to hear, fully recovered from his
recent illness.
v * •
Lady Samuel intends entertaining 500
colonists at Kensington Hall on the 23rd June.
* • *
We are asked to remind the public in this
column that “The Agamemnon of ACschylus”
will be performed at Sydney University, at 8 p.m.
on June li and 15. We regret to have to announce
that Mr. Horace Bent has been compelled to de-
cline taking the part offered to him, viz , that of
Greek cornerman.
* ■ *
Dr. Sohwarzbach’s ball at Need’s rooms,
Sydney, on Thursday evening, was attended by a
large and fashionable assembly, about 150 guests
being present. Mrs. Airey, Mrs. W. Docker, and
Mrs. Sahl acted as hostesses. Several features in
the evening were now and highly interesting.
The dances commenced with a German walking
polonaise, the music playing a favourite march.
In the later part of tho evening a cotillon was
danced, in which the figures, with coloured rib-
bons, fans, and little Japanese parasols proved
very effective and amusing. During an interval,
Romberg’s Toy Symphony was played by 10 ladies-
a most charming and novel variety among so
many dances. The evening will long be remem-
bered by those present, and Dr. Schwarz-
bach has reason to be pleased with the success
of his entertainment.
* * *
The sister of the American President, who
has been doing the honours of the White House at
Washington in the absence of the President's wife
—he had none then—“ approves of evening dress
which shows the neck and arms.” Of dresses which
show the bust, however, she does not approve, her
opinion being that “ between the neck and bu3t
there should be a line drawn.” Exactly—and
there often is. But somehow the custom has not
beoome popular, perhaps on the grounds that few
people who have enjoyed the distinction have
been able to show its advantages. Perhaps Miss
Cleveland doesn’t mean the same line as we do,
but merely a social line; but say—where would she
draw it ? There is a leader in Sydney society who
seems to think that it should be drawn round the
knees. At a ball lately this gorgeous dame exhi-
bited as much back-bone as is shown by the Aus-
tralian Museum whale-skeleton.
* * *
On Tuesday last an enjoyable picnic was
given to Dr. and Mrs. Byrne at Pearl Bay. Dancing
and feasting were the order of the day.
* * *
Let us at once say that Miss Jane Foss
Russell, of Sydney, Bachelor of Arts, is, as a “sweet
girl-graduate,” a decided success. When we took
our degree girls did not. But we cannot imagine
anything more stimulating than running with a
sweet girl for honours—and the sweet g irl winning.
* * *
The Primate preached on board the Nelson
lately. Music up to the mark this time. It s no
bad training for Tallis’ service to practise good
sea-songs. The Governor and his party were
again present. Cold better.
» * *
Listen to this. Scottish ball of the Sydaey
Thistle Club to come off next month. Highlanders
to wear their native undress. Bagpipes, haggis,
bannocks, and whisky as music and refr<?sb ments.
* * *
Shot-plush or shot-silk, or satin with plush
stripes, is very charming; it is not cheap, nothing
rechercM ever is. Very charming, too, are the
new bonnets, made of passementerie, and having
no other trimming than a “ bandeau ” of flowers
and a pair of “brides.” A delightful one has the
“bandeau” of field daisies, the petals in white
velvet and the “brides ” of gold faille.
* * *
At Governor Loch’s levee, Melb , nothing
could exceed the splendour of the costumes worn
by the loeal force officers. The medical-staff
officers, especially Burgeon-General Fu ton, were
so gorgeous that when the Governor saw them he
asked to be introduced. But things were ex-
plained to him, and the gilded pill-boxes marched
past with the rest.
* * *
While so much is being said about the acts
of bravery performed in connection with the Ly-
ee-Moon, let us turn for a moment to the ideas
held on the subject by one of the actors them-
selves. Anirew Bergland is a lusty, broad-
shouldered a .rede, in the early prime of life, mus-
oular as a bull, with room for gallons of oxygen
between spine ana breastbone, and his fresh fair
skin and the clear blue eyes that look straight out
at you from under his yellow hair make a picture
of perfect health. He simply 1 tughs at tho idea
that there was anything particularly praiseworthy
in his performances. He knew he would be able
to save himself, s'* he cannot see what special
merit there was in what he did for the others.
When a rope had to be brought from the very
bottom of the ship that the rocks were pounding
into the likeness of a battered jam-tin, the young
Norseman swung himself down through the man-
hole with the same light-heat ted recklessness that
a few centuries earlier would have sent him
merrily swinging bis fcgttie-ftse amongst cracking
English skulls. All this is a mere matter of con-
stitution. Take a man accustomed to danger
from the time he flattened his noga in his first at-
tempt to walk, give him arteries in which the
blood travels like the stream from the nozzle of a
fire-engine, and nothing but want of opportunity
will prevent that man sending the Humane Society
bankrupt in providing him with medals. Bergland
passed six hours on the which he
went down into the forecastle twice, once for the
rope and once to get a coat for a shivering mate.
When his turn came to go ashore, he burdened
himself with the almost insensible body of a well-
grown thirteen-year-old boy, and after it all he
was pulled through the surf as lively as a cricket.
The Rev. Poole regrets that Bergland is not a
Briton. It would be more to the purpose to con-
gratulate ourselves that he is likely to hand down
his sinews and energetic circulation to a brood of
young Australians. Bergland now says he wants
to be a professional oarsman.
* * *
Said a Sydney leader of fashion to another
last Week: “I'm sorry not to see your; husband
here to-night.” “ Oh, he couldn’t come—he’s quite
decomposed since the shipwreck. Friends on
board, you know.”
* * *
Don’t forget that on June 21 the Sydney
Mayoral banquet and Mayoress' reception come
off in honour of the Queen’s Jubilee. The
“leading” colonists alone are asked. Now
this is about one word for the Queen and
5000 for Sir—we mean Mr.—John Young. The
habitual-diners-out and after-dinner-gas-makers
will string out the usual amount of Soudan
patriotism. The inevitable W.B.D. will spout, and
so will Sir Jeames, and so will the “JanialDan.”
We know all they will say already. This anniver-
sary gave the Mayor an unequalled opportunity
of showing what might be done—and he has
chosen a banquet I We begin to think that Sydney
and banquet are convertible terms. We have our
banquet politicians just as other nations have
their Bismarcks. There Is no mistaking them; there
they are—red-faced, conceited, and round-bellied—
prepared to speak for anyone at any time-the
cheap-jacks of oratory.
* * *
Mr. and [Mrs. Tooth, of Darling Point,
entertained a very large circle of friends at a de-
lightful ball on Thursday evening last. The gar-
den was most brilliantly lighted, and the decora-
tions in all the rooms were exceedingly tasteful.
The supper arrangements unusually good, the
billiard and dining rooms were both provided with
long tables, which were simply covered with
substantial aud recherche delicacies of every des-
cription. An unusual number of very handsome
and expensive toilettes were displayed. The hos-
tess wore a magnificent dress of pale-blue mer-
veilleux, draped with ficelle lace, and the whole
front of the skirt was covered Iwith beautiful iri-
descent embroidery—she also wore splendid
diamond jewellery. The Hon. Miss Harbord looked
extremely well, in stylish frock and black tulle,
with velvet bodice: Mrs. William Gilchrist, a re-
markably handsome gown of gold-coloured
striped velvet and silk—very fin© diamond orna-
ments; Mrs. W. Laidley, a handsome black cos-
tume with pretty lace cap; Lady Innes, a much-
admired cream satin dress; Miss Campbell, a simple
and pretty white dress; Lady Manning wore a
pale-blue and cream brocade costume; Miss Man-
ning, a becoming dress of gold and brown; Miss'
Clara Manning, a pretty pale-blue satin and white
tulle frock; Mrs. H. Ford, an uncommon dress of
brown satin and old gold draperies; Mrs. Frank
Osborne, a much-admired dress of cream satin
and lace, with beautiful diamonds.
* * *
Judge and Mrs. Baokhouse gave a very
pleasant dance to about 70 of their friends on
Friday evening. The arrangements in every way
were perfectly managed.
* * *
11A soiree came off at the Town Hall,
Mudgee, in honour of the return of the only
Taylor. The hero of the “iron hand” was re-
ceived by about 4000 people. Nothing could ex-
ceed their enthusiasm. At the soiree everything
was tip-top, so as not to jar on the European
cultivated taste of their guest. Mr. W. Wilton,
mayor of Cudgegong, presided. He read letters of
apology from Mr. Speaker Barton and Mr. L.
Harnett, who were unavoidably absent. The
usual address was presented, but owing to R. B.
Smith being in England no purs© of sovereigns
followed. The Salvation Army and a few lar-
rikins enlivened the proceedings for the police.
* * *
Mr. Darley, Q.C., has left for Brisbane,
where he is retained in one of the Mount Morgan
cases. There is a fee of 1300 guineas attached to
this job, and many lawyers would go to a warmer
climate still for such a retainer.
v * *
The seventh annual ball of the Glebe
Rowing Club was held in Bydney Town Hall last
Friday night, but, owing probably to the dismal
state of the weather, was only attended by about
130, who thus had ample space. Tasteful costumes
were conspicuous by their absence, with a very
few exceptions, notably a dead-white satin with
broad pink Swiss belt; a pure white satin with
white net drapinga and pearl fringe; a pale-blue
silk prettily made; and a rose-pink veiling with
coral velvet trimming and coral ornaments in the
hair—each fair wearer hailing from Glebe Point.
Many of the young ladies wore ribbon streamers
of the club colours tied round their arms, bunched
on their skirts, or fixed somehow on their dresses,
whilst one lady paid them the compliment of hav-
ing her whole costume composed of red, white and
blue satin, which, to say the least of it, was
unique. Splendid music was played by De
Groen’s band.
« * *
Mis Gertrude Howard Smith, daughter of
the well-known Melbourne steamship-owner, was
married on Ist June, at Holy Trinity, St. Kilda, to
Mr. 8. R. Innis-Noad. The three bridesmaids were
costumed alike in cream merveiJleux with soft
trimmings of cream silk muslin and lace. The
bride, who was given away by her father, wore a
beautiful dress of ivory satin duchesse and old
lace, the bodice riohly embroidered in seed pearls.
A very long tulle veil was worn fastened by dia-
mond stars over a wreath of orange blossoms, the
only other jewellery being a diamond bangle.
Her long court train was carried by her nephew
dressed as a page in ruby silk plush. A novelty at
the breakfast were orange blossoms scattered pro-
fusely over the table. And, by the way, we see
that the bride’s brother, the festive and clever
Bruce Smith, who left his big Buccess at the
N.B. W. bar to bear a hand in managing the family
property, means to enter the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council. Does this mean that he is going
to praotically die—or does he intend to wake
the dead of the Upper House in the cabbage
garden ?
* * *
The annual sports of Royston College, Syd-
ney, were held at the Association Ground on June
3. Between 4000 and 5000 people were present, and
the costumes of the ladies on the lawn were just
about as sombre as the weather. The sports
caused a good deal of interest, and were fairly
well contested.
• ■ w
About 20,000 people assembled to witness
the Intercolonial Bicycle Sports last Saturday
afternoon at Moore Park. The stand was packed,
and the lawn so thronged that it was quite a work
of art to steer through. The uniforms of the
various c’ubs mingled harmoniously on the lawn
with the tasteful costumes of the ladies. Miss
Young wore a striking gown of crimson plush,
wit i bonnet to match; Mrs. Daly, an effective
costume of sapphire blue plush; Miss Lake looked
stylish in a comfortable brown ulster, brown
velvet bonnet, ornate with a large grey bird; a
snuff-brown cashmere and plush costume with
jersey, silk hat to match and long bow, was very
ladylike; a conspicuous dress was of a navy blue
and white flannel, with op-m sailor collar and
navy-blue velvet Tam o’ Shanter. Brown was the
favourite tint on the lawn, and plush and fur the
prevailing trimmings.
(Continued on next page.)
B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
dfg
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
s
PIANOFORTE,
i guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
£35
"IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
_ CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
dfg
WALNUT FALL-
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
sdf
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
a GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gs
WfALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier—a desideratum for the Barris-
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench,
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
fid, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
dfg
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
sdf
SPIUNG MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pino Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
hoards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


It is understood that the long-looked-for
papers in the Spalding-Airey enquiry will be pub-
lic property to-day (Thursday).
* * *
HThe Sydney Owl Club give their fifth
annual ball in the Town Hall on Thursday, the 17th
inst. The sub-committee are exerting themselves
no end to ensure its success, and have procured
the services of a good band of 12 performers for
the dance music.
* * *
Miss Lizzie Davidson, daughter of Mr.
John Davidson, of Willgah Downs station, was, on
the Queen’s birthday, married to Mr. John F.
Ryan, of Wiliara station, Wanaaring, at St.
Stephen’s Church, Bourke. A large number as-
sembled to witness the ceremony, and the bride
looked particularly nice in a cream satin gown
garnished with Jaoe and orange-blossoms. Three
bridesmaids attended, all prettily dressed in pale
pink dresses and cream hats. Honeymoon in
Melbourne.
An engagement is just announced between
Miss Bessie Coboroft, of Wonona, Woollahra, and
Mr. Moriarty, barrister.
* * *
A grand military conoert, whioh is to
comprise a deal of the professional and amateur
talent of Sydney, is to be given in the Masonic
Hall on the 23 rd inst. It is under the patronage
of the Governor and officers of the Defence Force,
and will be the first conoert of the kind ever given
in Sydney. Its object is to raise funds for a
building for the Balmain artillery corps.
♦ * *
The first of the St. Kilda socials passed off
very pleasantly last Friday evening, in the Bal-
main School of Arts. The next is to be held
July 2
The amateur theatricals’ entertainment
given the other night in the Bchool of Arts, Mur-
willumbah, Tweed River, was patronised by the
youth, age, beauty and fashion of the district—all
in war-paint.
• • •
The newly-formed Sydney Zither Club
held its first meet for rehearsal at Baumann’s
Caf<s last Thursday night. About 30 ladies and
gentlemen put in an appearance, many of them
zither players. The club intend performing in
public shortly for a charitable purpose.
• w *
“North Shore Rowing Club ball to morrow
(Friday) night .at West’s rooms, Castlereagh-street.
* * *
Charity is evidently played-out in N.8.W.,
teste the miserable £309 raised in aid of the Ly-ee-
Moon widows and orphans at the “influential
and “ representative ” meeting of citizens held in
Sydney Town-hall. We shall have to fall back
on “ Patriotism ” and the Soudan Fund.
* * *
The Messrs. Fairfax, of the S.M. Herald,
have handsomely intimated their intention to
allow Mrs. George, widow of their late general
manager, Mr. Hugh George, £5OO a year for life.
* * *
The Queen’s birthday was kept up in
good old style on board the Union Company’s
steamship Rotomahana. After dinner had been
cleared away a Viotorian soft goods colonel arose,
overflowing with loyalty or something of the
sort, and, making the usual observation (" pleasing
duty to perform?’ “ happiest moment in his life?’
&c.), called on the assembled passengers to drink
her Majesty’s health in the old patriotic fashion.
And it was drunk accordingly—in water. There was
nothing else on the table at the moment, not even
a boiled custard. It is greatly feared among the
Victorian community that loyalty has received a
shock from which it will take long to recover.
The Rotomahana may be the crack boat of Aus-
tralasia, but the soul of man craves for something
higher and nobler than a 16-knot passage, and it
would have been better for that colonel that a
millstone bad been tied about his neck, &c,
• • ■
“Lady Rosebery,” says Vanitv Fair,
“ with the ample reception resources of that great
historic pile, Lansdowne House, and the Foreign
Office to boot, has scarce made a sign as a hostess.’’
How many free dinners the Conservative journal-
ist wants it is difficult to say, but it seems the new
Foreign Secretary is either going in for economy
or he feels he must really draw the invitation line
somewhere.
* * *
The writer has always thought that the
commercial fate of a restaurateur should and did
depend not so much upon whether he charged
you sixpence more or sixpence less to eat at his
board as upon whether or not he gave you a dean
table-cloth and good butter. A man, who has
started a grillroom in Sydney upon something
like the London principle, makes you imagine
while at his place that you are in England, for he
provides splendid meat, snowy table-linen, and
cow-butter. If he continue to do so he will make
a big fortune in five years. Cart-grease is the
curse of the average Australian table. This is as
solemn a fact as that the fryingpau and twice-
cooked and jbadly-cooked meat annually send to
the grave hundreds compared with whose earthly
dyspeptic tortures all next-world torments must
be of very small account.
* * *
Immense preparations are being made for
the production of the “Agamemnon ofAJschy-
lus,” by Sydney undergraduates, on the 14th
June. This play, or rather part of a play, is a
tragedy containing an exciting murder of a
gentleman by his wife and her lover—a masher
of the period—besides an assorted amount of vitu-
peration, which shows that abuse was reckoned as
a fine art by the classic Greeks. As we have
already remarked, it is only a part, one aot, of a
play. When the ancients wanted to go to the
theatre, they arranged for a week’s holiday, and
took a well-filled portmanteau with them, as well
as sufficient small change to carry them through
an intermittent course of astronomy between the
acts. But a Sydney audience would not hunger
for Greek drama in wholesale quantities, so toe
undergrads, have wisely determined to allow the
public to learn the subsequent history of the
dramatis personal from the legends of the period.
As the original text will be adhered to, it « pro-
bable that the audienoe will raise Cam in their
excitement, but a strong detachment of the police
will be in attendance to prevent any serious up-
roar. Hector Maclean will conduct an orchestra
of 40 performers, and Rivers Allpress of the Beau-
tiful Hair will lead the violins. He is indeed ad-
mirably suited for a front seat in the show.
*, * *
The Newcastle Council have decided they
will not pay the bills incurred in entertaining
Governor Carington. The items in dispute are
£9 9s. for omnibus hire and 16 guineas for an il-
luminated address, and unless the Governor
chooses to pay these the Mayor will have to do so
himself. Meanwhile Alderman Creer accuses
“His Worship” of meanness, Alderman Brooks
resigns because he can no longer associate with
“such a crowd,” and the Mayor resolves in his
inmost heart that he will travel down to meet the
next celebrity in his official wheelbarrow, and
save the livery-stable account at all events.
* * *
One of the most remarkable ornaments at
Lady Loch’s recent brilliant At Home was the
magnificent suite of diamonds worn by the wife of
the wealthy Mr. Joseph Clarke. A superb neck-
lace of immense stones was set off by the flash and
sriarkle of the butterfly wings of diamonds in the
lady’s hair, and, as she moved through the room
suDerblv apparelled, she seemed a relation of Gol-
oonda. By the way, Sir William Clarke’s new
East Melbourne residence will oi 8t £60,000.
■’ • •
A week or two baok we warbled of the
Pall Mall Gazette’s comic soheme for manu-
facturing colonial “loyalty.” The P.M.G. sug-
gested that “distinguished visitors ” should be in- i
vitedto kiss the .Queen’s hand at a royal garden
party. They would then, it appeared, revere the
Crown and die happy. Evidently the idea ** took ”
in Court circles. The cable has thrilled us with
the tidings that "By permission of her Majesty,
H.R.H. Princess Louise will entertain the Com-
missioners and distinguished colonists nowin Lon-
don at a garden-party at Kensington Palace.” The
P.M.G.’s cup of joy must be just about full up.
But we fear Louise is hardly the lady to make this
gorgeous garden-party hum. As Goveraess-
General of Canada she put on an infinity of “ frill,”
and is scarcely the female to sticx out her hand
for promiscuous lick-kissing. However, we were
forgetting that she has a husband. Possibly he
will be pressed into the service for this occasion
only. Louise will do the bowing, and the unfortu-
nate Marquis will offer up his hand for the other
part of the sacrifice. What a pleasant prospect
for the distinguished ones 1 The Marquis of Lome’s
paw is a shade more fiabby than a defunct fish.
* * *
Prince Albert Victor of Wales, Potts
Point and Toorak, will he interested to hear,
has taken to raoiDg, and tried to win the 10 -h
Hussars’ Regimental Cup with his horse Paddy,
which was only beaten by a head. The young
man’s head, it has always been pretty plain, will
never beat anything worth talking about. It is a
pity for the royal family that Prince G eorge, who
really has something in him, is not the eldest son
of the Prince of Wales, instead of the sawney
softy who, if present arrangements be adhered
to, will one day be King.
* * *
By last San Francisco mail that well-
known vocalist, Madame Marius, left N.B.W. to
seek the rest and change which her recent great
affliction necessitates. It will be remembered that
not many months ago Madame’s husband, Mr.
Alexander, shot himself dead at Darlinghurst,
while she was in Adelaide fulfilling a professional
engagement; the cause of suicide, which was not
elicited at the inquest, seems to have been the
severe pecuniary loss sustained by him through
the now historic financing of a distinguished
American citizen of Sydney. Madame Marius has
been doubly unfortunate in that her former hus-
band also met with a violent death.
• • •
At the recent brilliant ball given at
Etham, Svdaey, hy Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Mitchell,
a departure from the general rule of having snow
white tablecloths in the supper-roo m was a rich
maroon cloth which showed the handsome silver
dishes and exquisite flowers to great advantage.
» * •
At Alexandria, we read, Mrs. "Bishop”
Moorhouse was presented with “ two magnificent
bouquets from the Khedive’s gardens.” We’ll
swear the Khedive didn t send them. The bishop,
who is a tolerably respectable man, surely
wouldn't allow his wife to reoeive floral offerings
from such a source. Some good Christian must
have robbed the garden of the much-married in-
fidel potentate in anticipation of the lady’s arrival.
* * »
The fascinating creature—it’s always a
case of cherchez la femme— who was a leading in-
cident in the, of late years, tempestuous career of
E. B. Holt, sold off her belongings the other day.
Her house, situated in a fashionable su urb, was
most elaborately furnished. A man who was pre-
sent mentions, as an illustration of the lady’s ideas
on the subject of "fixings,’’-that one pair of hair-
brushes was auctioned, much below its cost, for
six guineas. There will now, no doubt, be a 1 ule
made by the bank authorities that no lady tem-
porarily attached to the staff shall pay more than
three guineas a pair for hair-brushes.
** • *
A requiem mass has been given at St.
Mary’b, Bydney, for the soul of the mother of Mr.
Henri Kowalski, who lately died in France.
CAPT. A. W. WEBBER.
MR. JAMBS FOTHERINGHAM.
Above we give portraits of Captain Webber
and Mr. James Fotheringham, who were with the
Ly-ee-Moon attbe time of her disastrous wreck
at Green Cape, as captain and third mate respec-
tively. Both are now awaiting their trial o j a
charge of manslaughter, and it is too early to
state what share either had in causing the loss of
their vessel. In their favour it may be remem-
oered that the captain, like a good sailor, the last
to leave his ship, and that Mr. Fotheringham
displayed extreme bravery in an UDBUooeesful
effort to save one of the lady-passenger?, who
was unfortunately killed in his arms.
. , SOCIAL FIXTURES.
North Shore Rowing Club Concert, West's
Rooms, Friday. June 11
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall, Thurs-
day . June 17
Grand Military Concert, Masonic Hall— June 33
A cheering cordial for the despondent.
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
WoiiFß’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican. Accept no other.
The MODERN ART FURNISHING
T77AEB E2OTTSE
OF
JONES, LAWSON BROS., I GO.,
FOMEEOT CHAMBERS.
CASTLERE AGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athtmcum Club.
These recently-erected magnificent pile of buildings have been fitted
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Bros , and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR TflE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
the Quality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a Minimum,
as the arrangements entered into by JONES, LAWSON HROS., and CO. with the Leading Manu-
facturers of Great Britain and the Continent are of such a nature that they are enabled to offer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LE33 THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
JONES, LAWSON BROS , and CO. cffer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at Astohisbingly
Low FriC ‘S, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
reason of great cost, from enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been specially fitted up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MANSIONS FURNISHED
on the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contract or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception of intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Castlereagh-streot
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Place-
HORDERNS
ON THB
Briclrfield. SZIII.
II STAY ill COSSET DEFABTUEIT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
/ e
CL
a
so
C#
uo
7
' V
%
M
a
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6(1
EDWARD HORDERN AND lONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
> B.—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.


gs
wimiM.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-stroot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FIANOB, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BBBT MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.?
Catalogues & Prioeaon Application.
If. H. PALING & Co.
356 Geor*e-street, Sydney.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
ks, Lawson Erg;,, S Eg.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly tow Price of iBS 15s,
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
tBLACK AND BKASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSOIT BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormeus sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Ever y Souse.
ALL NOXIOUS
FLEAS.FLIES. BEETLES MOSCtUIJOES
COCKROACH AND IS
m, ihE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHE
E
■
4
4
dfg
FELTON-GRIrtWADEUC 0
- MELBOURNE -
Wanted in Every Souse,
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enouiry about Land, &c.« from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthub
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
Btreet, Brisbane.
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head ana Kidneys,
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
imra ediate relief.
484 GEORGE STREET.
sdf
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
Aw* ifK, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE lor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint!
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonic anl soothing effects It at once
removes all craving tor i’oohci. By its richness
in phosphorous anti other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL'S lONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour t« the whole system.
Price, fts. 6d., or 86s. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Markfit-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Miisic,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Yases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 35 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m’ Bio at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and ail the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety
Book Musio—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
Works, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, Se».; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries. Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
tied Tor Trsiys
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully iow prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS. Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS' MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
0F" Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING_PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OP THE
DIBEC T SUPPLY ASSOCIA TION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICBS, SO per cent. less than
fydney prices.
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/3, 5/6, 7/6, 0/6. 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/, SO/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
i(M
m
nr
ACCORDIANS,
at 7/6,10/0 12/6. IS/, 17 6.
21/-. 25.'-, SO/-, 40/-, to £6
Speciality: The miniature Melodiao, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-
10/6. 15/-. 20/-, 25/-, 80/-, to *2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS,
at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 180/-
to £lB.
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water hey £-5 6 0
„ The new “Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The i ew “ Keynote's” Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 13 10 0
Frem 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Speciality: The 8 key Cocoa D Conceit Flute,
w;th slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/-
n\
THE SYSSPHONETTEI
In nickel silver, with s’x tunes, 30/-,
Extra tures, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The" Walter Howard” American Nickel Banjo*
£3 3a.
yw* Brass and Brum acd F.fe Bands furnished
throughout. Ngger Minstrel Troupes Sited out.
C’arionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, EJegeolets,
Drums. Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every cless
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jot’s far; to a Church Orgu
MU3IC! MUSIC! MUSI'!
200,000 orpies New and Popular Mu le, published
at 3/-, 4/-, and 5/-, sold at 9-’. pe- copy.
£5 Worth of Music for £1 1
All instruments carefully packol and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSENp
MANAGES.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Quoin,
H.R.H. h? Prince if Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
gs
H./.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales:
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MAR6ARET STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
r'/A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &e.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
•a r THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED!,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows :-S EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
UPWARDS for. shorter periods: FIVE PER
and u r\TYatvua tor. snorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, pn sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offioes, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring: about all that ia
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the systc-m. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
aH ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs iii general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and. Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham's Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecliam, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each.—-Sold by’ all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Bealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


dfg
‘■r-'
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Id:
Scrofula on Necfa.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cutioura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cutioura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’* Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cutioura Soap and a single application ©f
Cutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cutioura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Ski-n and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cutioura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTIOURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beantifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston, U.S.A.
sdf
The "LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “ LOUIS V VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis,"
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OH
application. '
gs
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil & Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &0., &o.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil, and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of. any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers aHurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces BO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed .upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD’’ is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It IS most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. i
THS MALTINB MANUFACTURING- CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
dfg
sdf
gs
IEBICi
dfg
sdf
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARE
REJfc’CTED.ATALL CHEMISTS IN
lOfc* 20ozB0TTLE!
C ARNOLD 88KIDCE S T
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly he as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to he.
ROWLANDS BTJKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D., E.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MA ASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for f«ir or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail A gents— Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
[\HE
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which ban be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
MDE. DE HOUVELLEI’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Bold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. pei
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.: Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Bon, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co„ Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTKRFIELD, Chemist, 141 Rllzaheth
Street, Redfern.
XdirLexa. O-loss
CONTINUED SUCCESS
£5
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
PACKED In aml INSURED against
pwr carriage paid by mail all over the coloniei
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The good 3 are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
jBS LADY’S BALK.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
f pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
SX MOURNING BALK.
35 yds. Blk, French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’B Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBS.
On receipt of Ba. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 8 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aocouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
bo happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c,—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
11 applied to.
KILRV BROTHERS,
100 Oxford Street, Sydney,
Originator! of the celebrated <5 Bales of Draper}
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CUBES where all other MEDICINES FAID, as jt
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CUKE AND A SPECIFIC'.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Live®, Bladder
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains ih the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urm6 HEED THE ’WARNING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following.
masia
mm
t rain m email oi jd&uis., 114
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn iorms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
jOeen used without good effect.
DYSPEPSIA
1' Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach,Bad Taste
in.the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
.Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old Paople’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
tor medicine.
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
„ ...
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland.
gs
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-calleu
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloylng Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, whioh
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 G oulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any pa*t of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
the best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
t URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC I.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS, SCALDI, &c and
aken internally cures DIARRH(EA, BYSENv-tdRY,
3RAMPS, COLIC, and all other xutfern# aches
.nd pains. . -
Price, 3/- Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole prop i: :qr.
SIELBOUENL -A.IST33 ,ODNI3 Y.
PAINT


THE BUSH FIRE.
The uew hangman at Brisbane ia a bag-
man named Wairr, and floggings, executions, &c ,
will now be conducted in Queensland on strictly
commercial principles. Garotters will probably
be treated on piece-work, a reduction made on
TAKING UP A NEW LINE:
THE LATEST TESTIMONIAL AND BANQUET.
The Queensland baugmanship has been conferred upon a commercial traveller. All
the “drummers” in Brisbane immediately waited upon their fortunate brother to
present him with an illuminated testimonial and an invitation to a farewell dinner.
HANGMAN-BAGMAN (loq.): “THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN, BUT WE SHALL MEET
AGAIN—IN BUSINESS.”
taking a quantity (of lashes). Murderers may
possibly be “ worked off ” on commission, the
hangman and the gaol chaplain perhaps going
shares in the percentage. Let us now proceed to
striae the tuneful lyre on the subject:
The warehouse now no more he’ll know,
N@ more about his wares he’ll blow,
His lines are made of hemp and tow—
Beware I
No more the prices down he pulls,
No more his customers he gulls,
He gets commission now on skulls—
Beware!
And if to travel you may dare,
He’ll send you on and charge no fare,
And drop you with the greatest care—
Oh! where ?
Writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent under date 23rd April:—“l cannot say
that the progress made at the N.B.W. Court of the
Indo-Colonial Exhibition has been particularly
startling during the last few days, and it now
seems to mo that there is but little chance of tho
arrangements being complote for the opening day
fth May. Captain Loltus has a charming little
office in capital imitation of a cockatoo’s hut.
The Frenchman who is doing all the work—an old
Exhibition hand whose name I forget at this
moment—flies round all day iu a rnoßt commend-
able manner, and sets an example which might be
imitated wflh advantage. Hir Alexander Stuart’s
office is in Old London—the office is always there,
tho knightly officer only sometimes. Stuart,
junior, is his papa's right-hand-mau, relieving the
failing fatherly shoulders of considerable work
and worry, The male guests at the opening cere-
mony will be obliged to appeal in dress 11
There is a genius named M’Carthy on a
sheep station near Swan Hill (Vic.) who is eugaged
mostly in putting by for his old age. In further-
ance of this praiseworthy object he tried to rob
his bleeding country in a most ingenious manner
the He had, with untiring industry
and the aid of a snap trap, garnered in several
tails from the persons of foraging and intrusive
dingoes. The local Vermin Board offers £1 per
head for these tails. M’Carthy thought he would
make money out of that Vermin Board, so he took
the caudal appendages and cut each one into
halves. The lower section with its usual white
tip, was one tail; the butt end, thinned down and
tipped with horse-hair from his grey mare, was
another tail. By and bye our hero sent in his tails
to the board, with word to the effect that a
cheque for £19 would And him at his old address.
It didn’t though. The event didn’t come off. The
Vermin Board discovered his little game, and
M’Carthy’s troubles are just beginning. This, let
us point out to the Sydney D.T., is another in-
stance of the baleful effects of the accursed and
blasphemous system of Protection to native In-
dustries. M'Carthy would have been an honest
man but for the fact that he lived in a manufac-
turing colony.
A meeting has been held in the rooms of
the »Y.M.C.A,, Adelaide, to “ consider the expe-
diency of setting apart a day of humiliation on
account of the low state of spirituality in the
colonies.” Sweet Moses I what a pity it is that tho
late secretary, Mr. Walker (now in gaol), was not
there to preside I 1 ht> low state of—Gehenna! It
is cant like this that will in a short time cause the
Adelaide parson and the Adelaide Christian young
man to be suspected by the police wherever they
go. Pah I—
The wrongs of Ireland are still accumulat-
ing. Every animal which is enabled by its ana-
tomical formation to balance itself for a few
moments on its fore-legs, thinks itself fully en-
titled to launch out with its hind ones at the
Emerald Isle, and do whatever damage it can. It
is only a few weeks since an Asiatic heathen at
Calcutta, in a speech to his fellow countrymen,
took up the parable of Irish misdeeds, and began
to iling Semitic mud at Erin; and now, as the
climax, the aboriginal King Billy, from the back
blocks of N.S.W., has his turn. This gentleman
turned up among the deadbeats at the Water
Polioe Court, Sydney, a few days ago, on a charge
of using obscene language, and solemnly gave his
name as Jeremiah Murphy. And the cognomen
will stand on record in consequence as that
of another Irish ruffian who came out here to
disturb the peace of Australia. Why, in the name
of goodness could he not attach himself to the
aristocracy instead, and enter himself as Howard
Plantagenet Montmorency, or something equally
sensible? The Sydney Evening News has recently
adopted a system by which “ drunks ” are claesi-
fled according to their nationality, but we fancy
it ia likely to prove somewhat unreliable if this
sort of thing goes od. Aph Lin, of Canton, will
figure in the list as A. Flynn; Jake Eli. of Caper-
naum, will turn up in new guise as J. Kelly: and,
in fact, almost everybody—barring our old friend
Isaac Abrahamsh, will find an Irish designation to
fit him
AN ALLEGORY.— By “The Banjo.”
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
’Twas on the famous Empire run,
Whose sun does never set,
Whose grass and water, so they say,
Have never failed them yet—
They carry many million sheop,
Through seasons dry and wet.
They call the homestead Albion House,
And then, along with that,
There’s Welshman’s Gully, Scotchman’s Hill,
And Paddymelon Flat;
And all these places are renowned
For making jumbucks fat.
And the out-paddocks—holy frost!
There wouldn’t be no sense
For me to try and tell you half -
They really are immense;
A man might ride for days and weeks
And never strike a fence.
But still for years they never had
B- en known a sheep to lose;
Old Billy Gladstone managed It,
And you can bet your shoes
He’d scores of supers, under him,
And droves of jackaroos.
Old Billy had an eagle eye,
And kept his wits about—
If any chaps got trespassing
He quickly cleared ’em out;
And ooves that used to “ work a cross,”
They hated him, no doubt.
But still he managed it In style,
Until the times got dry,
And Billy gave the supers word
To see and mind their eye -
“ If any paddooks gets a-fire
I’ll know the reason why.”
Now on this point old Bill was sure,
Because, for many a year,
Whenever times got dry at all,
As sure as you are here,
The Paddymelon Flat got burnt,
Which Bill thought rather queer.
He sent his smartest supers, there
To try and keep things right.
No use! The grass was always dry—
They’d go to sleep at night,
And when they woke they'd go and find
The whole concern alight.
One morning it was very hot—
The sun rose in a haze;
Old Bill was cutting down some trees
(One of his little ways);
A black-boy cam* hot foot to say
The Fiat was in a blaze.
Old Bill he swears a fearful oath
And lets the tommy fall—
Says ho: “I’ll take this business up,
And fix It once for all;
If this goes on, the cursed run
Will send us to the wall.”
So he withdrew his trespass suits—
He’d OD6 with Dutohy’s boss—
In prosecutions criminal
He entered nolle pros.,
Bat these were neither here nor there—
They always meant a loss.
And off to Paddymelon Flat
He started double-quick
Drayloads of men with lots of grog
Lest heat should make them sick,
And all the straugers came around
To see him do the trick.
And there the Are was flaming bright,
For miles and miles it spread,
And many a sheep and horse and cow
Were numbered with the dead—
The super came to meet old Bill,
And this is what he said:—
“No use, to try and beat it out,
’Twill dry you up like toast,
I’ve done as much as man can do,
Although I never boast;
I think you’d better chuck it up,
And let the jumbucks roast.”
Then Bill said just two words: “ You're sacked,”
And pitches off his coat,
And wrenches down a blue-gum bough,
And clears his manly throat,
And into it like threshing wheat,
Right sturdily he smote
And beat the blazing grass until
His 6hirt was dripping wet;
And all the people watched him there
To see what luck he’d get,
“Gosh! don’t he make the cinders fly,”
“ And golly, don’t he s weat 1 ’ ’
But though the-y worked like Trojans all,
The fire still went ahead
So far as you could see around;
The very skies were rod,
Sometimes the flames would start afresh,
Just where they thought it dead.
His men, too, quarrelled ’mongst the mselves,
And some coves gave it best,
And some said “ Light a lire in front,
And burn from east to weat
But Bill, he still keptsioggin' in,
And never took no rest.
Then, through the crowd a cornstalk kid
Come ridin’ to the spot;
Say s he to Bill, “ Now take a spell,
“ You're lookin’ very ’ot,
And if you’ll only listen, why,
I’ll tell you what is what.
“These coves as set your grass on fire,
There ain't no mortal doubt,
I’ve seen ’em ridin’ here and there,
And pokin’ round about;
It ain’t no use your woikln' here,
Until you linds them out.
“ gee yonder, where you beat the fire—
It’s blazin’ up again,
And fires are starting right and left
On Tipperary plain,
Beating them out is useless quite,
Unless Heaven sends the rain.”
Then, Bill, he turns upon the boy,
“ Oh, hold your tongue, you pup I”
But a cinder blew across the creek
While 3ill stopped for a sup,
And fired the Albion paddocks, too—
It was a bitter cup;
Old Bill’s great heart was broke at last,
He had to chuck it up.
Moral.
The run is England's Empire great,
The fire is the distress
That burns the stock they represent—
Prosperity you 11 guess.
And the blue-gum bough is the Home Rule Bill
That’s making such a mess.
And Ireland green, of course I mean
By Paddymelon Flat;
All men can see the fire, of courso,
Spreads on at such a bat,
But who are setting it alight
I cannot tell you that.
But this I think all men wiil see,
And hold it very true—
“ Don’t quarrel with effects until
The cause is brought to view.”
What is the cause ? That cornstalk boy—
He seemed to think he knew.
Sleek saints, sleek oily saints,
Fed on fat dinners,
Whose pious fancy paints
As unkempt sinners
All who’re outside your crew,
Confound you, who are you ?
Pshaw 1 Don’t we know you well,
T'wards Heav’n you’re creeping,
But you would go to hell,
If you’d the keeping
Of Satan’s safe, but (this is true!)
Hell is just full of such as you.
BEWARE ;
UnprinoipaUed persons, Jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of uutil
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on tne fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of intelligence knows that Vile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissue of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing! It is ‘your
money and your life” with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and inoontestibly proved to be all it is
represented by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.
c
HEATING
THE
GRAVE.
HOW LIVES ARE SAVED.
ECHOED FROM PEOPLE
YOU KNOW.
LUMBAGO.
“ Carcoar.
“I had been suffering from Lumbago for som
time, but found instant relief in wearing Di“
Scott’s Electric Belt. •
“JEREMIAH SMITH.”
RHEUMATISM.
“ 45 Harrington-street,
“Sydney.
“ I suffered acutely from defective circulation
and severe rheumatic pains, following an attack of
rheumatic fever. Since wearing Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric Belt, Dight and day, I am quite another man,
and honestly recommend them.
“SAML. RANKEN.”
TOOTACHE.
“ Burraga, N.S.W.
I suffered considerably from toothache before I
used Dr. Scott’s Electric Tooth Brush, but have
never bad it once since.
“JOHN PASCOE.”
AN EDITRESS ON CORSETS.
“ Silver Press, Sunny Corner.
“ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets fit most admirably
and are most comfortable. The soothing influence
of the electricity is remarkable, and I strongly ad-
vise all ladies of literary taste to wear them.
“AGNES E. MVDONALD.”
ON THE CLARENCE.
“ Ulmarra.
“ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets give great satisfac-
tion.
“A, CURREY.”
DRSCOTTS
NOTE.
The following names are selected from the 10,000
who have been pleased to record their gratitude
and confidence in the
CURATIVE
PROPERTIES
of
D \ SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES
The original testimonials are on file at the offices
of this Association in
London, New York, and Sydney,
AUSTRALASIA.
Wm. Webb, Esq., Campbelltown Herald
J Carter, Esq . Surveyor, Narrabri
Carl Leo Poh, Inverell
W. Brown, Bourke
E. R. Shone, Esq., Architect, Walgett
W. J. Stewart, Baq., Conargo
Mr. Geo. Atkinson, Hay
T. Goodwin, Esq., Essex House, Tanmangaroo
Mrs J. Hallam, Warialda
Mr. J S- Alexander, Bexhill, N.S.W.
Mrs. C. Cougihan, Ccotamundra
Mr. Geo. Dell, Reedy Flat, Adelong
R. R. Thompson, Esq., Walgett
Mr. J- Westerweller, Boggabri
Mrs Viles, Gulgong
Mr. T. Palmer, Orange
Mr. V. O’Gorman, Tarwong Station
Mr. E. Lorraine, Ironbarks
Mr. Wm. Mitchell, Bega
Mr. J. J. Pugh, Tambar Springs, Gunnedah
Jas. Doyle, Esq., Pitt-street
Mr. E. Linton, Wee Waa
Mr. J. J. Pascoe, Ravenswood, Q.
Mrs. M. Cook, Nevertire
Mr. W. M. Milner, Watalabo, Gunnedah
Mr. Jno. Hazlewood, Palmer Island
Mr. M, Harnett, Nerang, Q.
Mr. T. H. Hutton, Claredon, N.S.W.
Mr. Jas. Brown, jun., Murray-street, Hamilton
Mr. Oswald Ingham, North Junee
Mr. A. M Phail, Hay, N.S.W.
Miss Clara Batten, Dungaree
Mr. T. Pinder, Aramac Station, N.Q.
Mr. D. M'Donald, Foxlove, Queanbeyan
Mr. W. D. Wright, auctioneer, Narrabri
Mr. J J. Markrow, Rockhampton, Q.
Mr. H. Thomas, B N.S.W., Newcastle
Mr. Jno Heap, Goulburn
Mr. W. Newlyn, Fort Gray, Wilcannia
Mr. Geo. Barry, Moon bar. Jmdalbyne
Mrs. S. Jordan. Tabulam, N.S.W.
Mr. N. Hinze, Peak Downs, N.Q,
Mr. T Crawford, Yeroag Creek, N.S.W.
Mr. W. Carberry, Thames Park, Sock
Mr. T. D. Green, Mt. Hone, N.B W.
Mr. A. Falconer, Junee Junction.
These goods ara sent out in a handsome box, ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot got them in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any addreßS upon receipt of stamps to cover post-
age.
Tho prices are as follows:
A Corsets 15/- B Corsets 10/6
C Corsets 8/6 D Corsets 6/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, 8/6
Electric Belt, 15/-
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... 5/- No. 2 Hair Brush ... 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush ... 0/8 No. 4 Hair Brush ... 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/6 Flesh Brush 13/6
Tooth Brush 2/6 Curlers 2/6
Insoles ... ... 2/6.
All Chemists or Druggists, or direct post free,
one shilling extra,
Military Hair Brushes, DjVjßcott’s Electric, pair
in leather case, handsome goods, 30/- per set. Pos
free, £ll2s. 6d.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Horse Brush, for lameup s
and stiffness in horses, £1 Is. Post 3s. od,
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY. P.0.80x 83.


u
m
w,
RXdc man
ni
B- 0 -
of favourite bran
IS of the bvßwf cto<l wlttl srreat care from tat
S&SSFSSB S f the celebrated firm of
jrSpot ho c 9** Dublin, and therefore
8I(j WIn & Pmonv.s •▼erywhar*.
Sole Agents.
3
fpx T , ot; TREn( H MTo?T e T C i ally invite inspection
Ssf;« 4 YOfjrnV MA( f f y FICENT STOCK of
W? MAI)E H ot ’otPot£9 Y s ’ “ STAND ARD ”
ifts trade THING ’ now open FOR THE
fa; The°y 3 a a r r fi e f^ m „ our OWQ sets of P at '
'.vp jfi' suntrviaw, Utl £ u y made and finished
c 1 of our home buyer, and,
and wortmS 6 surpassed, if equalled, for
‘gjT’jooieg kmanship by any house in the
i 6 ogthtli' D ed OVERCOATS, extra
‘StanV 53 ’. y VYoolor H»lian Cloth, 355,
rfretS® di a UD S^ eißht Overcoats in Meltons,
Wholly ’ d Fatey WorBtede > 378 6d > 35j *
OVERCOATS, LTNED
‘' s rAND S 428 tbSlLK,53a6d: ditto COVERT
Tw ll fl^iBhed T Ti? E p BAC SUITS . specially
f&f e ,> edB i and Bancy M ’xtnres, Bootch
a Worsteds, 32s 61, 35 s 435, 455, 50s,
~S tanrta rd i ded on application.
lsA ard ” Tweprt t Coat B- 15s 6d to 25 s
DI A Sr D6r 'Pair 4 Trouseis > lo3 6d -133 61, 15J 6d,
II OUINEAS L CDT and ™SHED, for
V ESTS - in LINEN or PIQUE,
f°^^ AN r Jacket, f or tennis or lounge,
WHiTE R w r S l?rMA NTa ’ lQ NAy Y
, Bp®? e n’a Dressin,Ln L ANN EL, 123 6d
Celtic and
ofl&JUl r ER PROGFCO AT S. cut extra
P7OHLV WATpilp'iJont' B ANTßED THOtt-
, n Clothl IP A? OF ’ we U ventilated, in
”“ w - Tweoa ''
COAT,
He
lightest
VERT
COAT MADE
v *®d al” “ a a Gaitei-o R idln ? *J nd Driving, all sizes
Xu , p Bh eets. Wo.f rH to match Coats
Sheeting, Buggy
and outjßUDg, uuggy Ruas.
tu t a ® v eryneat^gL? _*l E lLE CLOTHING
he trlm^«H 0r Wlater Wear, sty 11shJ:
•“‘e TT.\“i«IAL 00VnV uo ' warm Suit, lls 6d
„ ya^ l7 OP Vv a R 1' goo . d Scotch Tweed, 14s 6i
y C a to Whi AR ’ com Plete with Badge, Lan
mede of good Strong Blue
013 ’ aa<3e ° f Black aEd Brown Vel
1 v??»“F s K'™ s UtTs
Bourns HOom SUITS, in :
tp]p,e• s ,J 3 , and Drab Shells, in al
oo]m nd 1 ® Bhad eB.
cfe B i~BlfcT D r^ EE '£ H ATS - m the fellow
ovS&sr*^?"”’ New Br °™ s
ND DRes 3 TRUNKS, all sizes.
ol *e nd tre EAW , PEAPES and SHAW
George-street.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS sod DRUGGISTS.
mm
sHPi
mu «.sons:
WS- BOSJ
* >Z
wwco
»4*J 05
0 09 0
HAUTHAWAY’S
‘(HO RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks amf
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction, i
uTOOUVIS 3HI„
WS>\ papeouoo si
HAWAY&SOfiJS,
“Sress Street, Boston.
MASS., U.B.A.
HIS
STREET
nelv
SHAPES..
S2>S^^ace,
£ every description of
cthy ‘ Mercantile and
vXu F Q h *\ m *nam
\x *****U 'htioneiy..
tee stbw«t
ST*
GUINNESS’ EXTRA STOUT.
FIRST
QUALITY.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & Co. y
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney,
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
W THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER eaves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
taster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergyman, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO„
410 Kent-strset.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital. *306,0M
Reserve Fund *165,000
Dnuraxo;
The Hon. Sir John Ha;
Eton. Henry Mo
George 8. Caird, ■*>
Hon. Philip Gidley
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.Mj
’Sait
G„ Chairman.
, MJUa
Auditob*:
Jm. Baroggl», Boa. I H. JL Oohen, Bcq.
CtXiraßAl. Manaobb
A. A.-Wliflon.
SWJMKABY!
Hector Allen,
branohks ik Nkw South Walks :
Itormarket, Pyraont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn*an,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Qukknbland :
Brisbane.
Branch: 158 ~
London
E<Ward Chapman, Baa.
Sir Saul Samuel.K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Baq.
Geo. H. Alexander,:
... Mxkaghr : Geo. H. Alexander,]ieq.
------ London Bankirs:
The National Provincial Bank of
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Unan
ol o,£ sr ? I noy Bu ® l ? e ? s ,? D the moat favourable term*
Bllla discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
nd other produce shipped to Bnglandfor sale.
■Sr
To Weak, Nervous invalids and others
seeking Health, strength, and energy.
Dr. RICHARDS,
M.A, Oxon.;
M.R.C.S., Bog'.,
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes
that he has permanently established himself
in Sydney, and may in future be consulted at his
rooms. No. 7 Spring-sti-eet, free of charge, by
sufferers of both sexes from Nervous and Phy-
sical Debility, Exhausted Vitality. Premature
Decay, Pains in the Back, Head, or Cheat, &c., &o
I CURE EVERY CASE UNDERTAKEN.
When I say I Cure, I'do not mean merely stop
them for a time and then have them return again:
I mean a radical cure. I have made nervous and
private diseases a lif e-long study, and can safely
warrant a oure in every oase undertaken after a
personal consultaticin, * '*
Many persons, from the . effects of youthful
imprudence, have brought about a state of weak-
ness that has reduced the general system so much
as to induoe almost every other disease, and the
real cause of this disease scarcely ever being
suspected, they have been doctored for every-
thing but the right one. Notwithstanding the
many valuable remedies that medical science has
produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a
cure. During m;r extensive hospital and private
practice in England, I have discovered new a d
concentrated remedies, and with the use of my
extensive Galvanic Appliances, I am in a position
to guarantee a cure m every case undertaken.
Consultation cosfei nothing, and I will tell you at
once whdther your case Is curable or not.
Dr. RICHADDsTm.R.C.S., Eng.,
No. 7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-street North)
Sydney.
D IS. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 30 CASTLBREAGH-8T
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Ofllce Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
BQJLSOG.P.O,
dfgsdfgsdfgsdfgs
Barry’s Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make tke
ha grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all Im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
C. LOUGHUAU,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, CiGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” “ Our Girls,"
Boston Bride,” and our •* Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos —“ Boston Navy,” ‘‘Princelmperial,”
‘‘Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Prioe 6d.
Warehouse and Stores:
639 an 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Z
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frame*
re-oovered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New. at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
Parasols made to match ccS'
tUE.es Bauaira neatly exe
<vt«i
m
•A
O
<3
\T> y
W^ 5 ( A?; t / ,j^V|
E
VBRYBODY
SHOULD USB
FEMELL'S
BXTKA SUPERFINE
IT 18 MADB FBOM THB BEST WHEAT
In A Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
9SI George-street, Sydney.
T
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &0.
HE ONLY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
that makes a Speciality of
Musical Instruments.
Vkilns, Guitars, Banjos, Futes, Accordions, Con-
certinas, and Strings for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FoaoMowsxrs
kUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
105 George-atreet, Sydney'
, TOHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Chpltal
*lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Egi
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J.
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also qh Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castloreagh-stifeet.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
aX^s-4*
4*
s
s* s?
Vt>V;
s .o- <S
c>'
s*V
Messrs. 8. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT’S FHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought ud on the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, hea I,kidney stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, andlj; 11 most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
Agenta-Bjwwcm Leoi.
6. B. s'unmaker p
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements r in
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Bon. Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co,, who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &e, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men s Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 George-st., Brickfield HiU, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. !£§?” Price List on application
COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
MITTAGIOHa.
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
J. MURPHY’S
Control Loan and EUscount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
in tins City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per. Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Kates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Oflices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
MEaDXCXiTEE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and ChemioaJs by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOE ETOTHIHG-
Is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
53 Market @t., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus.
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
EPPS’S
GR ATEFU L—COM FORTING
COCOA
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
John T. M'liiti & Co.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
they may be favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—36o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various sizes, in
all the well-known brands: Curry Powder, in
tins and bottles ; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry ana Mulligatawney Paetss, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to be addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET.
DR. THOMAS
may he consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medioal Establishment, 303, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
" eons, London, 1869.
!ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL C
U.X.4
PKLPARE.D ONLY 13Y (7T\\
Thomas Ingham f-Y
—ICgH Or. UW A Nil ra u r n rvl b


1 A BOURKE STREET, )
XM MELBOURNE. f
THOS.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER,
and OPTICIAN,
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
neab postS® T
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, Sc.
1 jjJIIjI
Gaunt’s Spscial Silver Hunting English Lavar Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct an
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Je :•
DBrnu t.th'pb pnif.w nv A PPIiICATION.
LAROCHE. ]
FOB GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS.
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE.
ALL CONVALESCENTS.
At all Drugrgriflts and Chemista
DRINK rr*
pB# 1
pR# 1
pRI^ 1
FRY’S MALTED COCOA!
J.&S. 7 FRYS t&j SOBS, Bristol, London, and Sydney-
"An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lamom.
-r
m
jp§
"b
m
K
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
zrsr.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
produoing some of the following effects Ne-
rvousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
otevOTkm?.?,omw&.™ ro Sl: Pimples ’ Blotohss “ d Eruptions
this oldest office in Australia wht?r« Knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
remedies of adages usedf teooSXtheUlKmW’
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others vou tw + he
a; perfect lif ° CUre * thafc i 3 the i-P-tanTm&er the l;ok, f
DOCTOR. J. o CONNELL,
52 Casllercagh Street (oeound fuoob), Sydney,
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE !!
Trade
Cti’:
■■>>
Marls-
NO MORE FEVER. v . uer »»a
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful a *l
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instanti* tg
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all cn B
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lowe*
d
pH*
B°
B BBT BUTCHER * CIO
(Late William Long),
r WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. BTDNET
Country Order* recelre prompt attention.
■MHUOU.
&
4
o
c
4?
o
MARK
TRAOI
Or
*</
*
-O
N
A
3>>
&
S? o Ut*
4
Ncs
o
DP
N
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD. GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merohanta.-KEIGWIN and
HARBTON, Sole Agents.
WAULACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AHB
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH TRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
m
Copyrighted.
afteb before Moustache and Whiskers, iefqrs afteti
. Boyd's Beard Elixir did thin,
rand will do it on either bald
head or hare face- forces
heavy Moustache, in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails. 2o,ooo'
- - young men already wear full
beards having used \ to Splits. No injury, easily applied', certain
tn effect, l ackets, 2s. (>d. each, 3 for 3s. 6 d., post paid, sent under
fai>«-r,/ree/rom observation. Address, Frank Donkins, Sole Agent,
Sydney, N S'. ir.
5Q
Cop j righted
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS andl BQDBGA,
354 Oeoargo-street
(Beneath. Palin#’B.)
V
HE highest point of P erfe
facture of ’’ a rm
Gentlemen s *
«*.*,*- iir6e ives<
iving been reached by
prepared to supply our
made of any material, cut o
principle,
inoiple, oTTfiCI
6dak ™^!Us
aK"
and as we use materials of , gO l
durability and good yalu® ar
A. A. DUHEY ‘ e ,
13 HUNTER B
BTDI,eT V»^*‘
Manufactory
"" R. C. MESS/T^O* 1
FASHIOMABLf ;
and MEN’3
Supplies Clothing which, f° ge d Jl \ psr
price, cannot be surP»“" ,
I3T” Quality of Goods
without eq^ufSj 1 -
Tour patronage repeat sv>
235 PITT S
9
.rl""
LATK JtOWIiAHDS * LKKVIS,
Manufacturer of aU kinds uf JEratsd Waters, Cordials, and BlHars, and Proprietor of Vlo°
BALiLAKAT, MELBOURNE, and b*
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET. ».
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only So/o^Medal for /Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Bold Medal for Liqueurs,
