

The
Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
[\DE
■*7
i
PROOF
On
E't'
Netting
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BEOS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
9
IRONMONGERS
512
H/
o
9
REG?
<Kv„
s>
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
&* > ? .. _ -
RELIABLE]
BUGGIES
r
’w i u
FIRST GRADE
STYLE, \/
QUALITY,’ S
and
FINISH. C
Used by All the
leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
L BUT HOW GOOD! j
1
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
J. M. ELLEEOAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
•tto
#
«*U>
*SC C
M'OARTHY eSc GO.,
TOBACCO MEECHA3NTTS,
669 Greorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
ASS’ Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
LEA & PERRINS’SAUCE
S5K#
SAUC
&*!taa§
Tn consequence of Imitations of THE , IVOR CIS / L RSIIIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask fO7 LEA and PERRLAS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London , fry., dry. ; a;id bv Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montiwi<mmc, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & ®,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCBAP
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLKMRA * g (
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS'
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &e.
I# 1
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED »» P s.o*.
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES ; PIG IRON and LEAD
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIUb, P jjgg, VF 1 pjjjft
lONGERY, ROLLED II GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMLFIXED bApE*
nd HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES,
CREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEER® »
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. >ortT^- Bl f
Solo Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED paTEN'- 1 ’ pV
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and i
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
COe
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores - - -
London Office
• 51 YORK STREET.
- HAY and ENGINE STREEI®^,
- HARBOUR STREET, VA&v
SNTH) IST PL AT_ f
"T—Bs-GRACECHURCH StW
! 0^
YANKEE DOODLE
rs
SO** 5
D >
SS~“- y
x li
;^: : Y ■
IT'
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEHOB
cqn & sq/t;?
V
rr
A
'rrr
1
-33W55
ft
C o
TOB A C
factory in the southern hemisphere.
OS’ YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
possesses the r largest Facto f’ oV ic» !l
Tobacco, and consume more a
n ’s C ut
Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixs°
DIXSON & SONS, Sydney,
Jl
OH
m
Ww
m
&
hjjltek
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Gkorge-street.
K. HMIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
a Qcar'NTDm'FPTI
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids ... 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor's household, 6d. per battle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hatusey attends personally on lady patrons.
o.44'*'
Aft
;,y 3 NIHOVN
PM s®«
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
STOCK 5
WITH
-fAIT .Q
NEWESTDES |C
highest finish
lowest cost 1
Hf |S
*
LOCOMOTIVES,
estimated
11l
s
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
«•*'" git
*ll“ s


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 345.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1886.
Price., od.
The Financial “Policy” of the Future— What It May Come To.
“The Walker Estate will under the Stamp Duties’ Act bring the welcome sum of £80,000 into the empty N.S.W. Treasury. "-Daily Paper.
FUTURE TREASURER (to Physician in, charge of Moribund Millionaire): “WELL, HOW IS OUR PATIENT TODAY?"
PHYSICIAN: “WHY HE HAS RALLIED A BIT, AND I AM NOW GOING TO GIVE HIM A DOSE WHICH WE ONLY GIVE IN EXTREME CASES.’
[?]REASURER: “AH—HUM AH, DOCTOR, IF YOU GOULD MANAGE JUST TO LET HEM HAVE IT RATHER STRONGER THAN USUAL-YOU SEE THE PUBLIC
EXCHEQUER IS SO DEPLETED, AND THIS ESTATE IS SUCH A VERY LARGE ONE."
(It is really too horrible to think of.)


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISIIED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. .. £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. M, HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £l.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
rrespondence column all contributions submitted —-whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send ,£1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1886.
Sowing the Dragon’s Teeth.
The curse of New South Wales has ever been
the crass incompetence and crooked-minded-
ness of her leading politicians. This has been
especially noticeable during the last decade,
and was never more apparent than within
recent dates; apparent not only on ac-
count of the actions of men now in power,
but also because the blunders and “ fishy ”
acts of former Ministers are now coming to
light. That the grossest of blunders,
especially in matters financial, should have
been made, is not surprising, considering
that the bar sinister of chronic insolvency
disfigures the records of several recent
Premiers and Treasurers; Honorable-within-
the-colony G. A. Lloyd, and G. R. Dibbs
both have added to the record of the Court
of Insolvency, having failed for sums by no
means insignificant, though it is only fair to
the latter to state that he has always paid
his creditors afterwards to the utter-
most penny: Sir John Robertson has
just been extricated from financial trou-
ble by a Parliamentary vote of £lO,OOO : Sir
H enry Parkes has been a good cus-
tomer of “King-street,” while the late Sir
Alex. Stuart, previous to his acceptance of
the Premiership, was frequently, and it
might almost be said continuously, oppressed
by serious financial embarassment in his pri-
vate business. Men who so conspicuously
blundered in their own financial affairs could
hardly be expected to succeed in the manage-
ment of transactions of State. Nor have
they done so ; starting with a magnificent
public asset in State resources and credit,
they, and others, have so mismanaged as to
involve the colony in difficulties, and to sur-
round it with dangers, only to be overcome
or avoided by the aid of determination and
statesmanship.
* * *
Nor has New South Wales been much
better served by some of the men who had
achieved success in private life before be-
coming prominent in politics. One such,
Mr. Francis Augustus Wright, now stands,
with others, charged, whether rightly or
wrongly, with having defrauded the Govern-
ment of sums said to amount in the aggregate
to something approaching £lOO,OOO. James
Squire Farnell went down politically less
than 12 months ago beneath a torrent of public
indignation incited by practically unanswered
charges of disgraceful favouritism ; other
names to be worthily placed with these will
suggest themselves to readers of Sydney
newspapers during the last 12 months.
And of those alleged politicians who err
because of their own incompetence to do
otherwise Sir Patrick Jennings may be
taken as a fair instance. Laissez eaire is
apparently his motto ; let-things-go-to-the-
devil-if-they-will his rule of political life,
and they do go to that destination accord-
ingly.
* * *
There would be less reason for such criti-
cism if these sins and negligences were
already complete in their consequences, but
the reverse is clearly the case. Apart from
the evil precedents which disgrace the poli-
tical annals of the colony, there is a
present financial danger whose not least
attribute is the indifference and ignorance
of electors regarding it. Nothing in the
circumstances of New South Wales can
justify the present condition of the national
accounts. The colony has not been brought
by outside agency to her present position,
but has simply been allowed, by the gross
negligence of her rulers, to drift into
straits from which extrication may be labori-
ous and possibly calamitous. The deficiency
of £1,500,000 in Consolidated Revenue Ac-
count is comparatively a small matter; a
little economy or self-denial would quickly,
restore the equilibrium were it not that all
the causes which operated to create this
shortage are still at work more actively than
ever. A very brief review of the history of
the past decade is sufficient to prove this
unpleasant fact.
* * *
During Sir Henry Parkes’ long term in
office ending in 1882, the money drawn from
the pockets of squatters by a wasteful land
law produced a fictitious expansion of the
public revenue : the price of the national
estate was treated as income, but it must be
remembered, in justice to Sir Henry, that
upon resigning office he left a surplus of
nearly two millions to his successor. In his
term loans had been raised and spent at the
rate of less than two millions a year, and the
country, although suffering occasional re-
verses, was in a fairly prosperous state. Sir
Alexander Stuart, who succeeded, won his
way to the Premiership in large degree by
his fierce denunciation of the Parkesian
policy of treating the proceeds of land-sales
as revenue. This very policy was studiously
imitated, nevertheless, by Sir Alexander,
although, in consequence of the stoppage of
auction-sales, the land returns fell off con-
siderably. But he, or rather his Treasurer,
Mr. Dibbs, did more than this by inaugurat-
ing an era of the wildest and most wasteful
extravagance. The surplus quickly melted,
in spite of a very questionable transfer of
nearly two millions from loan account to
revenue, and at the end of 1885 the State
balance-sheet showed a deficit of more than
a million. In 1883-5 new loans aggregating
£16,833,040 were obtained and spent, thus
bringing the gross expenditure of the colony
up to an average of rather more than
£14,000,000 per annum during those three
years. During the present year another loan
of £5,500,000 has been negotiated, and is
being expended at the rate of about £500,000
per month ; yet, despite the impetus which
so large a disbursement of foreign money
should give to every branch of trade, and
notwithstanding the stimulating influences
which might have been expected to arise out
of the distribution of the loans aggregating
£22,333,000 floated during the last four
years, the revenue is still unable to keep
pace with the wants of the Treasurer in spite
of its expansion by the imposition of in-
creased Customs Duties. Dismissing from
present consideration the acknowledged reck-
lessness in dealing with Consolidated
Revenue which has recently prevailed, we
may say briefly and broadly that the existing
deficit is caused by unwise investment of
loan funds ; the money, when devoted to
State purposes, does not return sufficient to
satisfy the moderate demands of the lender.
* * *
A large majority of the borrowed millions
having been expended in the construction of
railways, the cause of the present financial
difficulties must first be looked for in the ac-
counts of that department. According to
the report recently issued by the Commis-
sioner the balance of loans at debit of the
Railways in 1885 was £24,615,400, for which
sum £1,027,739 was required for liquidation
of yearly interest. The net return on this
investment is stated as £716,215, thus
leaving a deficit of £311,524, increased by
the loss on tramways, £12,979, to £324,503.
These figures give an index to the causes of
the deficit, but there are strong reasons for
believing that the actual loss is far in excess
of the amount stated. It has been fre-
quently asserted, and never officially denied,
that the Railway officials have a breezy
way of robbing Peter to pay Paul, and that
this is done by charging Government
goods carried for other Departments a rate
far in excess of that paid by the public ; and,
further, there is a distressing amount of un-
certainty in the report as to the rela-
tive sums paid out of loans and re-
venue on railways’ account for renewals,
repairs, &c., on existing lines. If this
this latter charge is provided for out of the
Consolidated Revenue, then the loan money
originally expended cannot be credited with
the total of net earnings as above-stated ; if,
on the contrary, the outlay is provided for
by fresh loans the value of the railway asset
in relation to its loan liability is thereby
diminished. In either case the stated
sum of £324,503 must be much below the
actual amount of loss. Further examination
of the railway figures leads to the unsatisfac-
tory conclusion that there is no prospect of
improvement so long as the present sys-
tem continues. In 1885 the net revenue was
less than that of the previous year by £68,763,
giving a less return by o‘BB per cent, on
capital expended, and this in spite of the
important fact that the total of public expen-
diture approximated £16,000,000, of which
sum more than one-third was loan money.
This decrease of net earnings the Commis-
sioner attributes to drought, trade depression,
and losses on new lines. As against the first
excuse must be set the fact that the
sheep in the colony at the end of
’B5 were only 100,000 less than at any
previous period, and that the carriage
of wool last season returned £26,140
more than in -84. ' Nor is trade depression
sufficient cause for the shortage in net earn-
ings, for goods of all kinds returned £2892
more than in the previous year. And lastly,
the losses ©n new lines are fraught with
warning rather than consolation for the
future, because such unprofitable lines are
yearly increasing in number and length.
The line from Jerilderie to Narandera did
not clear working expenses by £13,041, and
Werris Creek to Narrabri showed a similar
deficit of £10,675, but when the lines now
in course of construction are open a huge
increase of loss may confidently be looked
for. The profitable lines have all been made,
the wild-cat extensions, land advertising
lines, and vote-purchasing branches are
most of them as yet unopened. None of
the causes so glibly stated by Mr. Goodchap
can be accepted in palliation of present
losses, and it must always be remembered
that the amount spent originally is only in
part represented by value. The first outlay
for rails, sheds, and rolling stock is subjected
to yearly depreciation, and no sinking fund
has been created to provide for this gradual
reduction in the value of the railway asset.
This material fact the Commissioner and
Minister find it convenient to forget.
* * *
It is commonly believed that loan monies
are expended in permanent and reproductive
works, but this is only in part true. Of the
£34,000,000 spent up to December 31st, 1885,
railways and tramways were debited with
£25,786,900, but the remaining items on the
Loan list are almost without exception of a
non-productive or temporary character. Thus
Immigration absorbed £569,930, and to this
investment must be charged the cost of re-
lieving the armies of unemployed it has pro-
duced ; coal-staiths, steam-cranes, dredges,
and punts are responsible for £347,257, and
none of these can be classed as permanent;
gaols, asylums, police-barracks (and dead-
houses), are charged with £189,605 ; bridges
(requiring constant renewal and repair),
£500,000 ; and “ metal for the Mudgee
Road,” £22,000. Thus, to sum up, it may be
stated that £25,786,900 invested in railways
returns £324,503 less than the required in-
terest, and that the balance, £8,385,937,
gives a very insignificant return indeed. Or
to put it in another way, the interest,
£1,646,000, due to the national creditor, is
only provided for by the return on invest-
ments to the extent of £716,215, leaving
£929,785 to be paid out of revenue !
* * *
This yearly charge of nearly a million for
interest must be taken as a prime cause of
present financial trouble, and the system
which has brought about such a result by
the lavish and imprudent expenditure of
Loan funds, the basis of fear for the future.
Borrowed money profitably invested enriches
the borrower ; wasted or unwisely spent it
impoverishes him. New South Wales, un-
fortunately, follows the latter part of the rule.
There is no Parliamentary check on the ex-
penditure of loans ; the purposes for which
money is required are vaguely stated when
authority to borrow is sought, but no further
permission for their use is required, and no
information asked or offered. Therefore the
member for Mudville gets as many bridges
out of the loan-money as his vote is worth,
and indolent Ministers permit the perpetra-
tion of wasteful expenditure of all kinds :
“It can come out of the Loan Fund—Par-
liament need never know.”
* * *
While trade is stimulated by the importa-
tion of £5,000,000 annually as at present,
little difficulty is experienced in obtaining
revenue by taxes or otherwise, but none are
so foolish as to believe that this can last
much longer. Soon the colony will be
brought up with a round turn as New Zea-
land was after the Yogelian era, and then
the disgraceful negligence of present and
past Ministers will be found to have borne
bitter fruit. Capable politicians in office
would see the approaching evil and adopt
measures to mitigate its power; Messrs.
Dibbs and Jennings are content to live in
the Fool’s Paradise which they maintain by
means of borrowed millions. They are sow-
ing the dragon’s teeth ; other men in other
years will rise up to curse the sowers and the
crop.
A.D. 1888.—The Proposed Australian
“Centenary.”
Here is the sort of epistle that some one
of the many educated and intelligent natives
of the colony of New South Wales should
have addressed to The Bulletin, which,
however, has had to write the letter for
itself:—
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—A word, by your
courtesy, to my fellow-Australians. People seem
much divided in opinion as to the most fitting
means of celebrating what by certain influential
persons—who, if not keen practical jokers, must
indeed be utterly devoid of humour—has been
termed the ‘ Centenary’ of Australia. Apart from
the muddled state of the N.S.W. public finances,
there are most excellent reasons why this so-called
centenary should not be celebrated at all.
* * *
A prominent feature in the Government pro-
gramme of festivities submitted by Sir Patrick
Jennings consists in the deliverance by prominent
citizens of orations commemorative of the occa-
sion. Now, this oration scheme is merely the
American Fourth of July business all over again—
with the trifling difference, however, that on the
“Glorious Fourth” the American citizen celebrates
his country’s declaration of Independence and not
the day when the first shipload of forgers and
murderers arrived from England to toil beneath
the lash in Virginian plantations. The proposed
military and naval display will be merely a cen-
tennial proof that we Australians are a peaceful
people who wish to play at war, and the ‘ special reli-
gious services ’ will only afford the Jingo parsons
another chance to jeopardise their immortal souls
by telling astounding yarns about the way in
which Divine Providence has watched over Now
South Wales. The Bondi sewer-opening fet&
stands out conspicuously as the one appropriate
item in the whole of this ill-timed display : the
centenary of the day on which the crime of Eng-
land became wedded to the virgin wealth of Aus-
tralia is indeed a fit one to be commemorated in a
drain.
* * *
These are not very pleasant statements, but are
they not brutally true ! Though I have lived in
many lands, and have become a cosmopolitan in
feeling, I do not forget that I was born on Aus-
tralian soil, and with me this question of a cen-
tennial is interwoven with sentiment. Ido not
wish our country to be made a butt for the jeers
of the civilised world, and I say that the proposed
celebration, as the Centenary of the Australian
nation, of a day in January, 1888, can be apolo-
gised for by no man under heaven who is not
either completely ignorant of history or stubbornly
determined to ignore it. The proposal if carried
into effect will make us the laughing-stock of the
Northern Hemisphere, and will by the nations be
regarded as on a level with the act of the man
who, having been born in gaol, might commemo
rate his birthday by inviting people to dinner in
his natal cell. I emphatically repeat that, as a
matter of sentiment and out of deference to his-
tory, the landing of Captain Phillip and his ghastly
cargo of “first-fleet” felons should not be re-
garded by the free peoples ef Australasia as the
starting-point of our national history.
* * *
Just stand, sir, in imagination—as I have stood
in fact, in this very city of Sydney—before a
speaker who, on the Fourth of July, has for his
theme ‘ The Day we Celebrate.’ What memories
does that toast recall!—the eloquent and immortal
Declaration made by the elders of the Republic
after they had valorously entered upon a struggle
which they knew would give to them either a
glorious liberty or a glorious death—their vic-
tories, their sufferings, their defeats, their
triumph! But ‘ the Day we Celebrate '—that
toast, given in the capital of New South Wales on
the first-fleet day of January, 1888, what can it,
what could it conjure up, save the hateful tradi-
tions of that shameful morning a hundred years
ago, whose music was clank of iron, whish of cat,
and thud of gallows (sounds that linger and are
strangely cherished still!)—that morning a cen-
tury ago, which was not the birthday of our Free
Australia, for on it began in this new land the
toils and tortures of a band of expatriated helots,
doomed long to groan beneath a despotism as
cruel as any upon which the sun has ever shone.
* * *
Let me still—by whom the day is well remem-
bered, on which (standing by the open grave of
William Charles Wentworth) the strong and able
man who is now Chief Justice of New South
Wales said —‘Here lies the First of First-born
Australians ’ —let me, sir, predict that the people
of the colonies will, on reflection, decide to over-
look, so far as anniversary purposes are con-
cerned, the day now seemingly fixed by general
official consent for the Australian Centennial—that
they will yet select for their great universal
national festival a date which could, without
shame or mockery or mental reservation, be
greeted by us in presence of the world with taran
tara and beat of drum. Let us have the great
Cook, or Tasman, or Dampier, or Vasco di Gama,
for a founder, if we wish to go well back ; or
otherwise let us come down to some day of
achievement —Emancipation Day, Constitution
Day— any day in the calendar save that black one
which, above all others, cannot be welcomed with
a Pilgrim Fathers’ hymn. Let it not be a jibe
against us, from Spitsbergen to Erebus, that ‘ the
Day we Celebrate ’ is ‘ the Day they were—it isn’t
a nice word —Lagged.’ ”
CORNSTALK.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Golden Calf.
“ The ancient university of Oxford—that splendid
seat of learning which worships at no shrine but
that of pure intellectuality ” Bosh! Why the
splendid and ancient university of Oxford has just
made Sir W. J. Clarke, of Victoria, a Doctor of
Laws. Now, Baronet Clarke is a dull man, and
not a particularly cultured man, nor is he in fact
a reading man at all. The best that can he said
of him is that he is disgustingly rich and tolerably
liberal, that he is at least moderately addicted to
“ the pleasures of the table,” and that his heart is
as soft as his head, which is saying a good deal.
Now what has Baronet Clarke, the weedy
millionaire, son of the strong-brained avaricious
butcher, done for the literature of Australia, or
for that of England ? What has he done
that he should be bracketed with America’s
Grand Old Man, the illustrious poet, essayist, and
physician, Oliver Wendell Holmes, to whom
Oxford University but the other day also accorded
the “distinction” of a doctorship of law ? The
plain fact of the matter is that the ancient and
once honourable University of Oxford is in a
miserable condition of degradation. It falls down
before Holmes, who is the incarnation of most
things worth worshipping [in human nature, then
it straightway proceeds to grovel before Money-
bags Clarke, who has never revealed himself to
us Australians as aught but a pretty good-natured
fellow —for a millionaire —and a pal of the Mam-
mon of Iniquity. Oxford men in the colonies are
for the most part individuals of many airs and
much eyeglass, and as we don’t pretend to an
intimate acquaintance with their ancient and
high-toned Alma Mater, we have been long ac-
customed to accept them at their own valuation.
But, henceforth, whenever we meet a gentleman
who is an LL. D, of Oxford we shall steadily regard
him through our eyeglass, and mentally observe :
“ Bai jawve 1 Lucky man. Wish our father had
been in the butchering instead of being so beastly
well-educated, doncherknow.” How old-world
glories do wither up, to be sure, when those who
“ run the show” supply us with an index to the
contemptible reality.
♦
Forty to Nine.
That was the result of the division in the Queens-
land Assembly last week on the address for
Separation moved by Mr. Macrossan. This vote
the Sydney Daily Telegraph regards as a settle-
ment of the question. Similarly the recent
British elections might be said to settle the Irish
question, for it then became apparent that Eng-
land was but little more inclined to concede the
just demands of Ireland than South Queensland
is to do justice to the North. In such
case the result of the appeal proved the
tyranny of the majority while adding newer
force to the complaint of the minority.
Forty to nine it will always be in Queensland so
long as the Union is maintained whenever the in-
terests of North and South are seen to be anta-
gonistic. In the recent division the members of
the South were ranged on one side, the represen-
tatives of the North (with the exception of the
oleaginous Rutledge, whose interest is with


the South) on the other, and the very
fact of this unanimity was proof enough that
Separation is an absolute necessity, for it
demonstrated the antagonism existing be-
tween the two sections of the colony, and
proved also that the South will not concede any-
thing that does not directly conduce to its own
profit. Mr. Macrossan ably advocated the
cause"of Separation, but he could not, nor could
those who followed on the same side, succeed in
the conversion of a single Southern member. Ihe
reason is apparent. Logic, argument, and en-
treaty have ever been unavailing when used
in an endeavour to overthrow the might
of self-interest.. It is to the interest of the
South that matters should remain as they are,
the wealth-producing tropical North is in a hope-
less minority ; and against every appeal of that
minority the South opposes the pitiless logic of
numbers. Forty to nine against justice to the
North, far from being a final settlement of the
claim,’ is an unanswerable argument in its favour,
and an index of its future triumph.
True Repentance.
Everybody will be glad to see the Sydney Daily
Telegraph on its knees in an attitude of true
repentance, and not making confession only, but
setting itself with all its poor ability to “bring
forth fruits.” A squatter has taken the D.T. by
the nose and led him round through all the scrub
of New South Wales, and now he is as ready to
swear that every squatter should have a free run
and a subsidy, as a month ago to rise his rint in
every year, and stop his growling with anything
up to three dozen. D.T. doesn’t know much about
it, of course; squatting is not understood
by a four weeks’ journey, and it is just as likely
that the editor man has been as completely
sold as was the city mortgagee who was run
through the mallee ring of a really good station,
and went back with the reflection, “Sorry we
advanced so much, but certainly we will not fore-
close on that.” The only matter for real con-
gratulation is the receptive and repentant con-
dition of the journal in question. Always willing
to learn, and if only a little more diligent in study,
how much less insanity and inanity would there
be in its teaching ! A little knowledge on the
Chinese question, a little practical examination of
the influences and results of Protection and Free-
trade, a fair grip of the fact that true Democracy
begins where the sentiment of the fat bourgeois
ends, and there might be as ready repentance as
in this matter of the land. For the poor D.T. has
always meant well, only it is so apt to mistake
hysterics for passion, impertinence for force, and
the poor litt e parson’s garden of its own vision
for the wide, wide world.
The Law’s Worst.
The worst that N.S.W. Law finds it can do to
Arthur Reynolds, the Newtown murderer, is
to hang him. To that punishment Justice Innes
sentenced him in the Sydney Central Criminal
Court, the other day. Reynolds had much more
of the demon in him than has the average brutish
man. His young wife’s fears and sufferings were
wont to bring him gladness. He would order her
to get ready to die, and would enjoy the spectacle
of her terror. He would brandish knives over
her and make her cower at his feet. In the end
he forced her to write a letter exculpating him
from blame, then he made her swallow a glass of
poison, and lay down on the bed to witness her
death-agony. The Law, perhaps rightly, assumes
the man to be sane. There exist men as bad,
almost, as the Devil is believed by some to be.
They would be wholly as bad only that they have
not brains to carry them through. Crime and in-
sanity go often together, but the enormity of the
crime is no proof of the insanity. No one ever
started the theory that the Devil is insane. The
absolute fact is that the highest or lowest crime
may be perpetrated by a person who is thoroughly
sane. We take it then, as the law has taken it,
that Reynolds is sane. But if hanging is all
that can be done with this cool, calculating, and
brutal murderer, is not hanging too much for
such a person as, say, young Johns ? Johns, it
will be remembered, killed nobody. Whatever
he was he showed little of the incarnate and
fiendish malignity displayed by the Newtown
murderer. Or, is hanging not too much for such
a person as Liddiard, executed a few months ago,
who deliberately struck down a man for corrupt-
ing his wife —his coarse nature prompted him to
stealthily wield the axe instead of openly
flourishing jas polite society would have done)
a divorce-wyit, claiming damages from him
who had betrayed the mother of his children.
There are a score of offences made capital by the
N.S.W. Criminal Code in which a similar line of
argument might be pursued. A hanging nation
should hang only for the worst crime. By hanging
for twenty kinds of crime it makes it appear that
they are all equal in heinousness. The inference
is that a man guilty of one may as well go in for
all. It is the old story of stealing a lamb and
stealing a sheep.. This is the immediate lesson
taught by the sentence passed upon Reynolds.
As hanging is the highest punishment known to
the law, it should be reserved for the highest
crime. Lawmakers who can without an effort to
discriminate deal out the same punishment to
Johns, Liddiard, and Reynolds, are an ana-
chronism in civilisation. They have not fellows
outsider Patagonian barbarism.
Minister and Miner.
Political decency imperatively demands that
Mr. James Fletcher should immediately resign
his position as Minister for Mines in New South
Wales. As chairman of the Cumberland Coal
Company—a huge concern recently floated for
£300,000, of which amount the promoters retained
£IOO,OOO Worth of fully paid-up shares —he may at
any moment have to decide questions wherein his
own personal interest is directly opposed to his
duty as a member of the Cabinet. Such a position
is directly forbidden by the spirit of the 28th
clause of the Constitution Act although not within
its terms. That Mr. Fletcher would always decide
any questions to which he was a party in accord-
ance with right and justice is an assumption that
we have no desire to controvert, but that men,
unaware of the unswerving integrity of his
conduct, will be ever ready to suspect the con-
trary, is a fact which it would be absurd to deny.
To the end of time it will be taken for an axiom
that “no man can serve two masters,” and when
James Fletcher the Minister is opposed to James
Fletcher the shareholder it will be taken for
granted that the latter will secure' whatever he
may desire to obtain. No sophistry can get away
from the facts of the case, and as, according to
Bentham’s generally accepted dictum, it is more
important that administration should be believed
to be pure than that it should actually be so, Mr.
Fletcher will see that his continuance in a false
position, though he yield not to temptation, is
more disastrous to the State than actual but un-
known fraud would be. Nor is the past history of
this mine altogether free from suspicion. The
land is a coal-reserve of 18,000 acres. While Mr.
Abbott was in office he was questioned about an
application to mine under this reserve for coal;
lie professed ignorance, and subsequently, after
making enquiry, allayed suspicion in the House
and country by declaring that there was no inten-.
tion to grant the application. But the application
ivas granted in spite of this disclaimer, and it may
he taken for granted that Mr. Fletcher, and
other members of Parliament who are share-
holders in the concern, benefited very largely by
the concession. Mr. Fletcher, therefore, oc-
cupies now a position which, in point of deli-
cacy, is very largely similar to that of Mr. Wright
last year, and the suspicious public undoubtedly
will look for a similar result, especially knowing
that Mr. Fletcher is concerned in Newcastle
coal-mines, and that among of his friends at the
present moment are mine-promoters, brokers, and
others of that class, who are usually regarded as
perfectly able to reconcile their consciences
to any smart piece of business which returns a
profit. When this Jennings Ministry first
assumed office they were met by a vote of censure
based on Mr. Fletcher’s appointment as Minister
for Mines, and he then promised to vacate the
office, admitting it to he one which he could not
rightly keep. Yet he has not vacated it —doubt-
less for very good and sufficient reasons. What
those reasons are the community has a clear right
to know, and however satisfactory they may seem
to Mr. Fletcher, they are not likely to satisfy
electors and members who believe that no politi-
cian should be allowed to be a judge in his own
case.
The Sydney School of Arts Vote.
The majority of the members of Sydney School of
Arts, who lately refused to allow the Freethinker
to be laid on their reading-room table, on the
ground that it ridiculed a certain form @f religion,
showed themselves to be a pack of weak and
stupid bigots. “The system which cannot stand
discussion is doomed,” and the same is true of the
system which cannot stand ridicule. If the Free-
thinker is obscene, New South Wales has a
strong Obscene Publications’ Act, plenty of bigoted
stipendiary magistrates and judges, and a large
assortment of yawning and capacious gaols. If
the Freethinker is blasphemous—well, in that
case, New South Wales has still grinning from the
pages of her statute-books a grim and hoary blas-
phemy law or two under which she dared, ten
years ago or so, to send to prison one Lorando
Jones. If, however, the Freethinker con-
forms to the laws of the country and cannot he
reached by the police, it has, we take it, as much
right to be given entrance to a State-subsidised
institution as has any other paper. We don’t
suppose that anybody could be forced to read the
Freethinker, and to deny it admission is only to
advertise the paper and play the game of a cer-
tain little crowd of half-educated and aggressive
persons, some of whom are in their way just as
narrow-minded and intolerant as the worst of the
parsons at whom they rail. If Sydney School of
Arts were a thoroughly private institution, we
could quite understand and respect any claim set
up by its members to choose their guests and
select their literature for themselves. But, State-
aid-to-religion having been definitively knocked on
the head in New South Wales, The Bulletin
objects to bigotry being any longer propped up at
the expense of the consolidated revenue.
“ The Public Voice.”
The Bulletin draws the attention of the New
South Wales Attorney-General to certain remarks
reported to have been made last week by Stipen-
diary magistrate Addison, of Sydney, in sen-
tencing to six months’ gaol a prisoner accused of
public indecency :
‘‘Mr. Addison, in remarking upon the offence, said that
he felt very much inclined to have the prisoner flogged, as
such a gross breach of the laws of decency he had never
before heard. If the man were flogged the public voice would
cry out against it, and yet, said his Worship, had the same
offence been committed against the relatives of those who
were loudest in sympathy with such men, they would be the
first to clamour for the most rigorous punishment.” .
The Bulletin wants a lot of lessons given to
Magistrate Addison at once. Firstly, this gentle-
man should be officially informed that he sits on
the Bench to administer the brutal New South
Wales flogging law just as he finds it, and not to
howl about what the “ public voice ” would say in
the event of a depraved man with a diseased brain
being sent to the triangles to be tortured instead
of being sent to the lunatic asylum or to hard
labour in gaol. As to Magistrate Addison’s ob-
servation that the people who now most loudly
object to the principle of flogging being the very
first to cry out for it in the event of their rela-
tives being affronted, and his indecent and un-
truthful statement that those who object to the
use of the lash are necessarily in sympathy
with crime, The Bulletin has only to observe
that if Mr. Addison really believes that the
proper measure of public justice should be strictly
that of red-hot private vengeance, the sooner
we bring colonial criminal laws into accord with
the Chinese code the better. It would be a mag-
nificent idea to celebrate the Centennial by enact-
ing that the friends of a woman who had been in-
sulted should be allowed to stick matches under
the nails of the offender, or gouge out his eyes ;
and there are still a lot of people in New
South Wales who would be delighted by
the re-institution of the good old-time re-
gulation, permitting the enemies of Smith, J. P.,
to be flogged on the sign-manual or witnessed
cross of his friend Brown, J.P., who would
always be ready to return the compliment in a
neighbourly way. In this deliverance of Magistrate
Addison’s there is but one cheerful feature, which
is that a dispenser of the lash has at last, amid
groans and lamentation, blurted out the long-
delayed admission that “the public voice” is
making itself heard against the flogging law.
The Bulletin has fought many up-hill fights.
This is one of them.
America has been settled for more than
300 years, and yet she but lately celebrated her
centenary. Australians should chew over that
suggestive fact.
Te Whiti, the large, hoarse, obstinate
apostle of the Maoris, who is still in durance vile,
has been in business as a Prophet for about 12
years. He made his first public essay as a suc-
cessor of Joe Smith and Malachi by going out to
the hack yard and prophesying oats to his horse..
This revelation came true ; the animal had the
first “square feed” it had enjoyed for three
months, and Te Whiti’s reputation went up. His
next attempt was to foretell ham and eggs for
himself, but after 55 hours of divine inspiration,
he only got dried shark. Te Whiti’s present
trouble has arisen through his assertion that he
had started the Tarawera eruption, and intended
shortly raising another and bigger earthquake
for the exclusive benefit of the pakehas, who,
reckoning that they might as well assert them-
selves first and go aloft in a volcanic shivoo
afterwards, have put the Prophet into gaol.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ G.T.L.’ ; A woman divested herself of a gar-
ment or two and scaled a wall; that is the sum of your story>
and it is really not worth half a column of space
“ Lenore” : You say you have kept a copy of your poem. A
pity you didn't also keep the original “ C.L.A.” (Adelong):
Gratefully declined Always glad of contribu-
tions; but not of that sort “New Chum”: “Despair” is
not a proper title for your poem ; you should have called it
“ misery.” “E. J.” (Kiandra): We cannot give any opinion
as to the bona fides of the affair “Somnium”: The sub-
ject has been done to death by better pens than yours
“What is it?”: It is just about the average style of drivel
which the average man writes when he is badly “ mashed.”
“Veritas”: Sober up and write again. Or else
don't write, but sober up, anyhow “ J.J.8.”: We
consider that such snuffling judicial homilies ad-
dressed to a man who is about to be sentenced to die are a dis-
grace to civilisation...“ James Passmore ” (Rutherglen, Vic.) :
In your colony, if we mistake not, State school teachers are
forbidden to flog the children attending their schools. Yet
the law of your colony flogs men. A country which flogs
unruly men, who are perhaps morally incurable, and re-
frains from birching unruly children, who are possibly
curable, is a fool. It begins at the wrong end—it locks the
stable door after the horse has “cleared." “Gulf-hand”:
Cannot obtain songs mentioned “P.P.”: He left
the ministry “ because his voice was weak" and soon after-
wards entered Parliament. If a man’s voice is strong enough
to permit of his serving his country, it ought to be strong
enough to enable him to serve Heaven. There are lots of
persons with squeaky voices in each business... “R. Ashton ’’:
Mr. Norton, the N.S.W. trades delegate to Paris, has simply
stated that the workmen of N.S.W. approve of The Bulle-
tin policy—that’s all “ Ime Done ” : Thanks...." Reader ” :
You say you wrote your ode to “Nellie” specially for The
Bulletin. Specially for The Bulletin basket, you
mean “ Conditional Lessee ” : Always glad of any infor-
mation on the points referred to— “J.V.8.”: Will be very
useful, as pipelights "Paul”: Of no interest to anyone
save yourself and the girl “J. A. Ralph": The case
you submit is a strong one. If A signs and gives B a cheque,
and then, declaring his own signature to be a forgery, prose-
cutes B, the latter, on proving A’s signature to be genuine,
could proceed against A for malicious prosecution. A
would also be liable to prosecution for perjury, and if the
facts are as you state it is, to put it mildly, curious
that the Attorney-General has not taken’ action
“ Geo. Dyson” : Your argument is a very thin one, in face of
the fact that the Romanoffs are the only European royal
family altogether free from the taint of hereditary madness..
“ E. Cameron” : Your light of intellect is hiddeii’beneath a
bushel of words. We boiled your matter down, and then
there was nothing 1eft....“ Carlton ”: Melbourne Hospital
might have its uses. If your wife is troublesome,
scratch her accidentally with a carving-knife and
send her there. Dr. Erysipelas will do the rest....
“ J. Marsh” : Men known to be shareholders in the firm of
Wright, Heaton and Co. will not be allowed to sit as jurors
when the partners are on their trial. None of the judges are
registered shareholders “Shearer” : Noticed elsewhere....
“ Demosthenes” : Your sketches might be put to various uses.
They might, for instance, be engraved on marble and exhi-
bited as specimens of antediluvian art, or they might simply
be cremated as they are. We would advise the latter treat-
ment, but hold them awaiting your decision “ Marley ” :
If we were asked, we’d be inclined to say that the opera
“ Populaire ” was a satire on Lord Carington’s love of Popu-
lairety “ F.L.8.” :If Mr. Joseph, M.L.C., said that Lord
Carington was the most beloved Governor N.S.W. has had
within his recollection, his word should be accepted. Mr,
Joseph ought to be an authority on such matters. He has
been able to study Governors on shore, and he has happened
pretty often to travel with them in the mailboats “ Bohe-
mian”: Thanks. We published it long ag0....“W. Wat-
kins” (Redfern): The statement that “no one has ever been
sentenced twice to that punishment in N.5.W.,” is on the
face of it untrue and absurd. Ask any prison official
“Kosmos”: We read Johnny Ah Poo’s letter in theD.T.,
but rest and change has enabled us gradually to recover. It
is probable that Johnny Ah Poo wrote the preceding leader
on the Chinese question “Inquirer”: It is entirely a
matter of opinion “Admirer” (Hokitika, N.Z.): Loyal
pome noticed elsewhere....“ R.H.C.” : What railway station
is it, and whose land is it built on, and how close to the town
does the line pass? “Cowra Resident”: Have not heard
of presentation referred to. Send it along if of interest out-
side Cowra “Bundarra”: Delayed awaiting special issue
in the far distant and very dim future.... “ A Tragedian ” :
Not quality enough....“ Anctor” : Would suit Children’s
Corner in Jernil, or leading columns of the News equally
we ll “Kapunda”: Held over owing to press of matter...
“Bushman”: .Will require some alteration, and must,
therefore, stand over for a week or two. Send along
anything else you may think worth criticism
“ Lonely Jack” (E. Maitland): That is hardly our view....
“ Mazeppa ” : Your only liability in sending screed to The
Bulletin is a distressing liability to impose too much on
the good nature of a basket....” lolanthe : Remanded for
sentence...." La-di-dah” : Held over for ever and two days.
“Pell Mell" : We have read your article: don’t send
any more, or we may begin to have a bad opinion of y0u....
" Bella ” : Try some more poetry when he begins to mash the
baker’s daughter and forgets his vows to you. „ You may
shine in sarcasm, you don’t in se itiment J. (Norman-
ton) • Misty and uncertain. We make no charge for criticising
poems.... “A.M.” (Bathurst, N.S.W.): Henry Halloran,
C.M.G., is still very much alive. We do not blame him for
that, but he writes verse still, and that’s what we complain
about...." Fred.” : Your contention is wrong—first, because
the Hon G. R. Dibbs is not a lawyer, and, next, because he
never was a volunteer-colonel. Where did you get your
large knowledge of N S.W. politics?— D.S.P. (Mel-
bourne) : Sorry that it is not quite class enough for inser-
tion. ... “ Agricola ” : Will consider. They look we 11....
“ J.A.S.” (Ulmarra): Will read and consider " J.J.” : We
have never guaranteed the “ squareness ” of any sweep....
“ E.M.G.”: Anything you send will be judged upon its
merits', but it is of no use forwarding items which are of local
interest only. •• ■“ Balaam ”: We don’t forget it any more
than we forget that it was Mr. Gladstone who “ sent an En-
glish army and an English fleet to put down Home Rule in
Egypt, and finally put Arabi, the leading Home-ruler, into a
British prison.” ..“A Contributor ” (Tumut):’Thanks for item.
«T. J. Wiley”: Vanity Fair says what the Tories really
think; the Standard only says what the Tories' consider it
expedient to say....“H. Watson” (Brisbane): Thanks for
clipping. We note our contemporary’s advice “ not to mate?
hay for it.” We don’t intend to. Donkey-feeding isn’t our
business ..." Confidential” (Dunedin): The subject is hardly
worth pursuing further...." W.A.”: Held for illustration....
“Tonaldaj”: Our theory in re larrikinism is that there is
little respect for parents in Australia, because our first
parents” didn’t deserve to be respected by. anybody. The
early Australian boy who “looked up to his father,” pro-
bably saw him on the gallows. Again, we believe that the
larrikin is often only a white boy, into whom has transmi-
grated the soul of an Australian aboriginal...." Boko”
(Nyngan) • Thanks. Mr. Wisdom, in exposing an alleged
attempt at bribery, of which he had confessedly been cogni-
sant for four years, acted as if he made the charge rather at
the dictates of personal spite than in the public interest
“Torso,” and a score of others: Held over.
jgRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and C’C ON NELL STREETS.
X* Q PIANOFORTE,
) guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb. | J
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY |
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many sprite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, See. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
C match.
D
W
,INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNTTT TELESCOPE”DINING
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ITT ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
■VTOVELTIES in Bondoir and BOW-WINDOW
i3l SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
; he
i-\ j
m
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
• -
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
| development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS forParlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, beat
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


THE CONQUERING HERO.
VICTORIOUS AGAIN.
The “ Whitehall Review ” contains the follow-
ing, relative to a discovery of American origin,
which isjustnow causing considerable stir through-
out Great Britain: —“ The same has such a direct
bearing upon human happiness that it has been
made the subject of considerable comment and
investigation on the part of various newspapers.
As it is claimed that by the discovery in question
an absolute specific has been found for the cure
of certain most distressing ailments with which
the human family is afflicted, and which have
thus far baffled medical skill, and as these diseases,
in their most aggravated forms, are very pi-evalent
a representative of this journal was commissioned
to investigate the remedy by personal interview
with the parties who could speak from actual
experience. From the results as given below, it
may well be claimed that the general adoption of
this remarkable remedial agent will cause a re-
volution in the treatment of these painful com-
plaints.
“The first gentleman interviewed was Mr.
William Howes, the well-known civil engineer,
No. 68, Red Lion-street, High Holborn, London,
who, it Was learned, had made some personal ex-
periments with the preparation in question. Mr.
Howes stated that for over 20 years he had been
constantly and severely afflicted with rheumatism.
At times his hands had been swollen to twice their
natural size. Again, his joints became so stiff and
painful that he could not walk, and his feet so sore
that he could not bear his weight on them. He
had at different times tried physicians, and many
remedies which had been recommended to him as
a cure for his complaints. But he derived no
benefit whatever. An acquaintance, who had
himself been cured of a severe rheumatic trouble,
gave him a bottle of this new discovery, which
he applied once, with such unexpected and marked
benefit that he procured another, which, to use
his own language, ‘ settled the business,’ by re-
moving the pain which he had not been free from
for 20 yeai’s. Mr. Howes said that had he not
used St. Jacob’s Oil—the remedy referred to—
he would now be in bed, instead of attending to
his business. He added. ‘ Its effect were simply
magical. It produced a complete cure.
“Mr. Harold E. Chappie, hon. secretary of the
Dalston Havelock Cricket Club, writes as follows—
‘ I am desired by the above club to express the
satisfaction which they have found in the use of
St. Jacob’s Oil. For the healing of bruises,
wounds, sprains, &c., it is undoubtedly of efficient
Service, and its value should be made known,
especially among athletio clubs.’
“ It may be added that in its curi’ent number
the Magazine of Pharmacy, Chemistry, And Medi-
cine devotes considerable space to a discussion on
the extraordinary power of St. Jacob’s Oil, and
cites some astonishing cures.
“It appears, also that this remedy received no
less than six gold medals during the past year at
International and other Expositions. One of
these was awarded at Calcutta, another at the
great Southern Exhibition in the United States.”
JJUNCTUALITY THE SOUL OF BUSINESS.
TIME I TIME !! TIME ! ! !
THE WONDERFUL WATERBURY,
CORRECT TIME FOR 13s. 6d.
FACTS FOR
MERCHANTS, BANKERS, BUSINESSMEN,
CLERKS, ARTISANS, MINERS, BUSHMEN,
EVERYBODY.
THE WATERBURY.
The triumph of mechanical skill in the watch-
makers’ art has just received its premier exempli-
fication by the new series of Waterbury watches
which arrived by the Mariposa on Thursday last.
During the past decade immense strides have been
made in the direction of cheapening the cost of
horological instruments of all descriptions, although
in a great many cases at the sacrifice of their ac-
curacy ; but the idea of a really reliable and dur-
able watch for the million, at a price within the
reach of all, originated with and has been per-
fected by the Waterbury Watch Company, the
practical outcome of whose researches is shown
in their present improved “ E” series of w r atches
—the fourth which the development of modern
sc!t»-'' f ’e, and their indomitable enterprize has led
the) to issue within the past seven years. It is
not many years since the dream of a handsome
reliable watch which would record the flight of
time with unerring accuracy, and which would at
the same time be obtainable for the comparatively
trifling sum of thirteen shillings and sixpence
would have been laughed at as thoroughly im-
practicable and Utopian; but to-day it is no
stretch of imagination but a solid imperishable
fact that the “ Waterbury ” has become synony-
mous over the whole habitable world, with re-
liability, strength, and beauty, and a prime in-
centive to punctuality in commercial, professional,
scholastic, and social life.
The “ Waterbury ” can be obtained of all Dealers
and Storekeepers and throughout the Colony.
THE WATERBURY WATCH CO.
U MARGARET STREET,
SYBNISYm
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
We are glad to see that professional
bicycling is making a start in the colonies. On
Saturday next, F. S. Rollinson, from Yankeeland,
and J. Rolfe, meet in a match for £lOO a-side ; and
it is stated Fred Wood, the celebrated English-
man, may visit Australia if sufficient induce-
ment offer. Should professional riding become
an institution out here, it should have a cleansing
effect upon amateurism, as the maker’s amateur
and the quasi-professional may verge into the pro-
fessional proper, if they see there is more to be
made at the game.
* * *
And while on the amateur-professional
racket we see that Mr. Buck, who was to meet
Mr. Seale with the mittens, has been offered a
benefit at Foley’s to “ recoup him part of his train-
ing expenses.” It goes without saying that the
Englishman, if he accept the proceeds of the en-
tertainment, forfeits the prefix of “Mr.” to his
name, when spoken of by the newspaper man, and
crosses to that bourne from which no professional
returns.
* * *
The Britishers cannot understand the way
Beach is perched up in his boat. The slide he
rows on is his own invention. We recollect
that Tommy Kelly was of opinion that Beach was
seatod too high, and recommended a lowering, but
Beach, as he has since demonstrated, knew how
he put most power into his work, and was
inflexible.
* * *
It would seem the Australian Eleven
would not fetch much of a price in America just
now. The Australians were anxious to play in
New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and Toronto.
They wanted a guarantee, rather than run the
risk of a poor attendance or bad weather, and
made this proposition to the Philadelphia match
committee, who replied that tlie Philadelphians
could make the Australians no guarantee, and
were just as unwilling as they were to run the
risk above mentioned.
* # *
Neil Matterson pulled a gallant race with
Ross in the opening heat of the International
sculling sweepstakes, when he rowed the Ameri-
can to a standstill before half the distance had
been covered, and to this terrific trial may be at-
tributed his sudden collapse when opposed to
Teenier on the following day, but we do not think
that Matterson, under the best of circumstances,
is equal to the task of beating Teemer, taking
a line from the fact that Ross, who rowed
the Australian such a hard race is not looked
upon as able to extend Teemer. The riverside
people were not “ shook ” on Beach’s style before
the race, but by the time he had beaten Teemer
in the final by 100yds. in the fastest time on re-
cord over the Thames course, the gallant young
Thames watermen began to think Beach could at
all events get his boat through the water, and
that ho was a bit of a phenomenon in the rowing
line. At the time of writing there is a rumour
that Ross and Gaudaur would forfeit for their
matches fixed with Beach. It seems certainly a
forlorn hope in the first instance, but so far there
is nothing to show Gaudaur has not an equal
chance with Beach. Gaudaur recently defeated
Teemer with ease by 13sec. in a three-mile with a
turn race, covering the distance in 19min. 54sec.,
the best time on record for the distance, so if the
time-test is worth anything at all there is nothing
to frighten Gaudaur from his trial with Beach.
* * *
The meeting of Peter Newton and Steve
O’Donnell in a four-round bout at Foley’s on
Saturday night, proved one of the best sets-to yet
witnessed at this temple of science. O’Donnell
fought with more confidence than in his first
meeting with Newton, and punished the Victorian
severely about the body, one blow in particular
taking Newton off his feet. Newton at times
landed his left with stinging severity, but youth
had to be served, and, taking all through, O’Don-
nell had the best of the encounter. Lees played
with Snow for four rounds, and Murphy and
Fuller continued their encounter of the previous
Saturday. The show made by the latter pair was
not up to expectations, and, if anything. Fuller
had the best of it.
* * *
Before another Hunters’ Plate is competed
for at the Sydney Annual Agricultural Show, it
would be as well if owners were given some infor-
mation as to whether jumping powers, or looks,
were to count the greatest number of marks. On
what lines the prizes wei'e awarded Lord of the
Forest, Sir Garnet, and —could the judges be so
ungallant as to leave her in the cold —Lady Caring-
ton, in the order named, fairly puzzled the on-
lookers. Endymion, Dart, and Sequence were the
best performers, and should, without a doubt,
been the prize-takers.
* # *
Frank Herald, the latest star in the
Yankee fighting firmanent, is possessed of a right-
handed xxppercut of a sort peculiarly his own. On
21st May he got it on to Mike Conley after boxing
23sec., and the subsequent proceedings interested
Conley no more ; and on the 21st June he put
another gigantic pugilist into his little cot in
lmin. 25sec. Herald can now be backed against
the best of them, Sullivan not excluded, but they
don’t seem to catch on.
* * *
Poor worn-out England could not give up
the aquatic ghost without a struggle, and the
Times must have been hoping against hope when
it said, on the eve of the international sweepstakes,
that, “ failing Beach, Bubear and Matterson had
the best chance of winning.” It is hard to sur-
mise on what lines they vrorked Bubear into the
hunt. Had Bubear not had the luck in drawing
the bye, England would not have been repre-
sented in the first four.
* * ■*
The Hon. James White’s Paragon, year-
ling brother to Acme, recently broke his neck
whilst galloping round his paddock. The colt
was an especial favourite of his owners, and it is
hard to say how much money would have been
refused for him.
* * *
A grand-looking colt was Master Norman
(by Richmond from Delamere), who came to his
death in a very simple manner on Tuesday week
last. He had been tied up on one side ju3t pre-
paratory to going to exercise, and being left for a
few minutes he managed to got one of the stirrup-
irons in his mouth. He then slipped on to his side
and must have begun to plunge, for when the lad
ran into his box he found that he had fallen and
broken his neck.
* * *
The Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club scored
508 runs in an innings last season, the largest
number made by any club in the colonies.
Dick Mathews, the American pugilist who
shone so recently in Maoriland, was receiving a
“doing” from one Smith, in ’Frisco, when the
crowd rushed the ring, and the referee declared
the affair a draw. The referee changed his mind,
recalled his decision, ahd ordered the men to fight
out the 22 rounds which they were advertised to
do. Mathews refused to continue the battle, which
was awarded to Smith. Mathews beat every-
thing lie met in N. Z., and Smith was the first man
to “ best ” him since his return to the States.
* k *
There was rome very lively bidding for
Problem after he had won the Selling Hurdle
Race at the V. It. C. Grand National meeting. The
gelding seems to have been spirited right away,
and nothing more was heard of him until he won
a hurdle race at Dunedin under the name of
Warepa. It appears to have been a poor swindle,
recklessly conceived and clumsily executed.
Problem was a very unsuitable horse for “ ring-
ing-in ” purposes. He was very well known in
Victoria, and laboured under the additional disad-
vantage of being branded with two Fs. Alas ! so
did Warepa.
* # *
When the present Australian Eleven won
their first match with the Gentlemen of England
we were careful to point out that the latter, un-
assisted by professional bowlers, were not very
formidable opponents. We notice that in the
annual Gentlemen v. Players at the Oval, the
amateurs had all the worst of an unfinished game,
being 140 runs to the bad on the first innings.
Shrewsbury knocked up 127.
* # #
Not one-third of John L. Sullivan’s scrapes
have ever been made public. For two years after
he gained his fame by vanquishing Ryan, the
newspapers of his native place gave no pub-
licity to the numerous outrages he committed. It
was argued that he was young and inexperienced,
and would improve when he grew older. So he
went on. Finally, one day, when he kicked his wife
nearly to death, Col. Eland, of the Globe, wrote
a scathing account of the affair, and the Globe
printed it. Sullivan said nothing but the colonel’s
blood would satisfy him. So, with three or four
of his chosen friends, he strode into the Globe
editorial rooms, and demanded either a retractation
and an apology from the paper or the production
of the man who wrote the offensive article. At
this juncture out strode the colonel, cocked-pistol
in hand, and asked Sullivan if he desired anything
from him. The slugger evidently did not, as he
and his cohorts slunk down the stairs. From that
day to the present time the reporters have written
up nearly all the disgraceful actions of which he
has been guilty.
* * *
Jem Smith, the English champion, says that if J. L. Sulli-
van will not agree to tight in England, Ireland, or France, he
will meet him in America.
Annie Oakley, the phenomenal American markswoman,
has challenged to a match William Graham, the crack
pigeon-shooter of England.
GLOOM
Bismarck eats 21b. sausages daily. Which fully accounts
for his malignity.
King Ludwig, of Bavaria, scored one point at his death—he
made the doctor die with him.
The most confirmed sceptic will take your word for it if
you point a gun at his head and tell him it is loaded.
When an Icelander marries he is not allowed to see his
mother-in-law. It might make things warmer up there if
he did.
“Pa, I know what a man who has seen better days is.”
“ Well, my son, what is he ?” “Heis a man who makes you
tired talking about himself."
An advertisement extolling the virtues of a new feeding
bottle, winds up as follows: “When the baby has done
drinking, it must be unscrewed and laid in a cool place, say
under a tap.” Poor baby !
“ That was a pretty bad failure of Isaac Stein’s?" “Pad?
Veil, you vas right it vas. It vas de vorst failure of de
season. His greditors made him bay seventy-vive cents on de
dollar. It is petter to stay in peesness as to fail like dot.”
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
THE VERY MAN.
“ Yes, I am in need of a reporter," said a Sydney edieor,
replying to a man who had entered the office and applied for
a position ; “but I want a startling sensation writer, a man
who can make news. In other words, Iwmt a man who is
not afraid to tell a lie.” “I think I am the man.” “That
may be, but you must understand they are plausable lies I
want written, those that have every phase of the truth.” “ I
still say that lam the man.” “ Have you ever done much
newspaper work?” “No.” “Then how do you l now you
nan write plausable lies?" “ Because I have written articles
in opposition to the famous St. Louis Lager Beer.” “ Did the
public believe them?” “I think so.” “But you are not
certain?” “No." “ Then you are not the man I want.?’
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
TO CLEANSE THE SKIN
Scalp and Blood of Itching, Scalpy, Pimply Scrofulous, In-
herited and Contagious Humors, Blood Poisons, Ulcers,
Abscesses, and Infantile Skin Tortures, the Cuticura
Remedies are infallible. Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood purifier, expels disease germs from the blood and
perspiration, and thus removes the cause. Cuticura, the
great Skin Cure, instantly allays Itching and Inflammation,
clears the Skin and Scalp, heals L T lcers and Sores, restores the
Complexion. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier,
is indispensible in treating skin diseases, and for rough,
chapped, or greasy skin, blackheads, blotches and baby
humors, Cuticura Remedies are the only infallible Blood
Purifiers and Skin beautifiers. Sold everywhere. Cuticura,
50 cents ; Soap, 25 cents; Resolvent, $l. Potter Drug and
Chemical Co., Boston, Eass.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Said he: “I’ve been married thirty years and
have never given my wife one cross word.”
“ That’s because you never dared to, uncle,” said
a little nephew; “if you had auntie would have
made you hop.” Silence fell upon the circle, until
the red-headed servant girl came in and remarked
that the hoy had better put on his new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit that had just arrived from
Summerfield and Company, the Great Juvenile
Out litters 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
BEACH THE INVINCIBLE.
a
ill
Deeble's Hotel, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Sml March, 1\S6.
H. H. WARNER & CO.
Gentlemen.—Feeling unwell dur-
ing my training for tlie second
contest with Edward llaninn. of
Toronto, for tlie Championship
of the World, my trainer pur-
chased for me WARNER’S SAFE
CURE and SAFE FILLS, and I
was agreeaby astonished at the
great benefit which followed
their use.
Youi-N truly and g-rntrfully,
■a**?
Champion Sculler of I he Uoilth
DANGERS OF THE SEASON!
Unseasonable weather is always unhealthy
weather. When the system is prepared to meet
cold it is injurious to encounter heat. When heavy
garments are thrown aside for the Summer, or
Summer garments for the Fall, any sudden or con-
tinued change in the atmosphere produces a dis-
astrous effect accompanied in the body. These
dangers come in every form ; as the deceitful
malaria that steals into the system and silently
undermines the health ; as cholera in some of its
many manifestations ; as debility accompanied by
exhaustion and depression of spirits, and as sudden
chills followed by intense fevers. All of these
dangers are imminent, and no one whose health
is the least deranged is safe from their influence.
And yet they have no power over anyone whose
body is in perfect order. When the system is
debilitated changes of the season easily prostrate.
Malaria may be absorbed by any person, ahd slow
fever of a terrible and stubborn character will be
the result, while if all the powers are in full force
it will be expelled as speedily as it came. Indeed,
all Season dangers of a physical nature can be
traced directly to weakened faculties in some
portion of the body. It may therefore be truly
said that only those whose habits of life are such
as to keep their bodies in constant health can hope
to escape the influences which such a season as
the present brings.
It is freely admitted, not only by the most
scientific men in the land, but by intelligent
thinkersgenerally, that no permanent health can be
hoped for even under the mo3t favorable circum-
stances unless the great organs of the body—the:
workshops of the system—are kept in perfect
order. Those organs are the kidney and liver-
And yet disorders of these functions are not only
dangerous, but especially so because they are-
isually unknown and wholly misunderstood. Ifan,
eye is injured it becomes exceedingly painful;;
derangements of the stomach are followed by
3evei‘e and acute pains ; weakened lungs become-
sore, but the kidneys and liver do not show their-
illness by pain—on the contrary, other symptoms,
and in remote parts of the body are the only signs,
they give. The certain symptoms of kidney and 1
liver difficulty are these : Unaccountable lassitude
and weariness, pains in the back and around the-
loins, severe headaches, dizziness, inflamed eyes, a*
coated tongue a.: I dry mouth, loss of appetite,-
chilly sensations, indigestion, a dryness of the skin,,
nervousness, night sweets, muscular debility,
despondency, puffing or bloating under the eyes,
any unusual odor, oelor or sediment about the'
fluids passed from the system, an increasing pallor
of the countenance, wasting of flesh and strength,
pains in the heart, shortness of breath, etc., etc.
But while all these dangers threaten adults,
both male and female, there are equally serious
evils hanging over children and infants, which can
be traced to the same cause. Thousands of children
whose kidneys have become weakened as the
sequel to scarletina, are in imminent danger at all
times, and especially during the changeable term.
This fact remains, however, that while these
physical troubles are hard to cure they are com-
paratively easy to prevent. A careful attention
to the kidneys and liver will certainly avoid all
the diseases enumerated above, and will banish
the distressing symptoms which precede them,
beside adding the enjoyment consequent upon
perfect health. This, however, has always been
the great trouble. Organs so great as the kidneys
and liver are hard to control, and physicians have
invariably found it difficult and often impossible
to regulate or in any way reach them. It is an
established fact, admitted by the most prominent-
physicians in this country that one remedy and
only one has such an influence upon these organs
and acts so powerfully and direct as to control and
keep them in perfect order. That remedy is
Warner’s safe cure. It is easier to prevent than
to cure, and by a careful attention to the truths
stated above, no one need fear any of the dis-
astrous results which always accompany changes
of the season.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal— “ The Soggarth” p. 14
New Opera House—“ Pink Dominoes ” .. .. ~ „
Gaiety Theatre— “Fatinitza”
Royal Standard Theatre—" Sins of the City ’’ .. ~ „
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
Academy of Music— Federal Minstrels .. .. ~ ~
At the Sydney Opera House, “Pink
Dominoes” has been born again, and this wild
red lunacy promises to be an immense success.
There is no moral about the “Dominoes,” and a
Y.M.C.A. young man who sat behind us on
Saturday night was hurt thereby, but the comedy
is valuable as showing how much one delicate
female can eat when she is not hungry, but has a
doddering, bald-headed Romeo to pay the bills.
There is no mother-in-law, either, in the piece, for
which we were duly grateful, and the women do
not let down their back-hair and scream—another
cause for sincere thankfulness. The comedy con-
sists mainly of 23 lies and two carpet bags, and
the rest is drink and screaming fun. The first act
opens with a hoary reprobate, whose head seems to
have fallen into disrepair, nodding his wicked old
scalp over a collection of feminine photographs,
till a thick female dashes the cup of joy from his
lips and closes the book with a bang. A man of
business dodges round like an agile mosquito and
lays plans for a night’s pleasure ; a lanky blonde
youth maunders in the background and fulfils his
mission as a beast of burden by carrying parcels
for the ladies ; and an aristocrat loafs about in
search of amusement. The thick lady is pre-
sently called away to the bedside of a sick friend,
and two others, who have doubts of their lords
and masters, lay a trap for these unwary indi-
viduals, a circumstance which induces the busi-
ness man to telegraph his partner and desire to be
summoned on urgent business. Finally, the man
with the scalp—Joskin Tubbs by name—also
resolves to have a night’s pleasure, the first he has
enjoyed for half a century, and a waiting-maid of
the pussy-cat description, who learns that some
fun is in progress, issues an anonymous invita-
tion to the blonde youth, which makes that indi-
vidual wag his loose leg in glee and borrow 20s.
current coin of the realm.
* * #
The second act commences with steak and
oysters, a waiter eating the latter with his fingers
and charging for the job. The old man with the
blank head presently arrives with a fair enslaving
female who orders supper to the value of £7 18s.
9d., or thereabouts. Next the auburn horsey
youth turns up with the disguised maid; so do
the aristocrat and the man of business each with
the other’s wife, also disguised, the jovial pair
being in happy ignorance of the bottomless trap
into which they are sinking. By evil fortune the
two Lotharios presently meet, and the man of
cotton vainly endeavours to pass as a waiter, and
yells, “ Hoysters for one ! ” Ultimately the ladies
get mixed ; so do the liquors ; so does old Tubbs,
whose charmer takes to flight and leaves him
drunk, and hurt in his tenderest feelings; and
some awkward revelations lead two of the
characters to disguise themselves in a false nose
a-piece, and write to their female relatives that
they are spending the night by the bedside of a
sick friend who had died some time previously
and was then mouldering in the silent grave.
* * *
The third act consists of hypocrisy and
general smash, but four used-up individuals, each
with a head on him, come off better than might
be expected. Mr. Alfred Maltby, in the character
of Joskin Tubbs, is true to the last, and nods an
unctuous old head over the collection of female
photos, amid the storm which rages around him.
His part is decidedly the best in the performance,
and next to him comes Mr. St. Maur as the man
of business on the spree. Miss Watt-Tanner is
prominent in the character of Lady Maggie Wag-
staffe, and this lady, we are certain, could travel
on her comprehensive smile alone. Space will not
allow us to do justice to the other characters, but
some day they will meet their just reward.
Jb db Jb
TW TV" Tv* tv*
A complimentary benefit was tendered to
Mr. Herbert Flemming at Sydney Royal on
Saturday afternoon, “ Nita’s First,” a comedy
with a moral, being the principal item of the per-
formance. This piece was obviously written to
show that a rakish young man in a striped jacket
and a small, paunchy-headed boy, are not fit per-
sons to be entrusted with an infant of tender
years. Any fond mother who may have contem-
plated leaving her offspring in the care of such a
syndicate should pause in time, for the hairless
squalling progeny will assuredly turn up next at
Brisbane or Adelaide, branded “C.0.D.,” and
then before she can rescue it, it will probably be
shipped to Auckland on a dog-ticket and be lost
for evermore. We only once knew an infant who
passed through such an ordeal, and the bad habits
he acquired during his wanderings resulted in his
being hanged 57 years afterwards.
* * *
The first duty of a rakish young man with
a baby is to get rid of it, and being saddled with
one which has been left anonymously at his door
he takes counsel with the fat boy and they pass it
on to an elderly maiden lady by whom it is indig-
nantly sent back. Then the intellectual youth
offers it to the police, by whom it is de-
clined with thanks, and at last he returns
gleefully to report that he has left it in a
cab. Meanwhile, his fellow-conspirator gets the
baby thrown at his head by his wife, who leaves
bim for ever, and then he makes the awful dis-
covery that it is his sister’s child he has succeeded
in losing, and in his agony he carries out the fat
boy by the ear, In the next scene things are com*
plicated by the presence of Nita, who does not
know that her baby is on the loose, also by the
presence of the fat boy, who is longing to tell of
the catastrophe, but dare not for fear of sudden
death, also by that of Nita's husband, who is
hiding behind the fat boy, in addition to which
there are her parents who know nothing of the
husband or the baby, and a dude who knows
nothing of anything. This pleasant family circle
is presently stormed by the news that the baby
has eloped by goods-train to Edinburgh, and the
maiden lady arrives to complain that small
obscene boys have been standing outside her pre-
mises all day making remarks. At last, how-
ever, after much tribulation, the hungry little
mortal is rescued and deposited in a flabby con-
dition in an arm-chair, and peace is restored.
The acting in the comedy was good throughout,
Mr. Philip Beck, Mr. Hans Phillips (as the fat
boy), and Miss Brooke having the best characters,
and the performance wound up with a variety
programme, in which Mr. Harry St. Maur, Messrs.
Walsh and King, and Raynor Brothers took part.
TV" TV* TV* TV*
“Carmen,” at Sydney Gaiety, is to be
followed by two nights of “Fatinitza,” which
will signalise the end of Mr. Farley’s season at
this theatre. “Fatinitza” has at least the merit
of novelty so far as the plot is concerned. The
interest depends on a high-booted military liar
from Moscow, who falls in love with a girl who
never existed, and who, considering the present
high price of coals, is hardly likely to exist at any
future time. Out of respect for this female
mirage, however, he forbears to flay an unlucky
sergeant with the barbed-wire cat as he originally
intended, and he promotes the imaginary brother
of this imaginary sister to high rank as a means
of gaining his consent to a marriage. It is a
matter for sincere regret, therefore, that the only
Fatinitza whom he can discover is a bulbous
negress whose lips are capable of covering his
whole face and head in one enraptured kiss. This
crushing disappointment causes the gray-headed
old soldier to weep into his capacious boots in the
AT SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
last act, and he swabs up his agonised Russian
countenance in time to give his paternal blessing
to everybody, except an elderly drunken Turk
with three wives who has been taken prisoner
somewhere on the Danube. The ultimate fate of
this Ottoman is not very clear, and at the moment
of writing we are unable even to recollect his
name, but we fancy he is designated Dogtail
Pasha, or something equally euphonious. When
last seen he is tied in a chair, and one or two
Russians are walking round him for the sake of
pedestrian exercise, hut having started on a cold
morning from the middle of his capacious hack
they stop dead tired on reaching the longitude of
his ribs. “Fatinitza” deserved rather to be
turned into a good comedy than into a second-rate
opera, hut regarded as a mixture of hugging and
inebriated Turk set to music, it should serve as a
successful wind-up to the season.
■AA,
*7V~ ■7V* *7V* 'A*
According to the bills of the Federal Min-
strels, at Sydney Academy, the Oxyhydrogen-
biunialopticallanternby-Sydneyßeedisaprominent
part of the performance, hut we didn’t see anybody
who looked equal to the name. The company,
however, have a joke about Jonah swallowing a
retired milkman ; Beaumont Read gives a very
pretty song entitled “Called Back,” and Alf.
Lawton has a screaming melody about Jawbone
Neild, all of which help to keep things going
pleasantly. There is also a “ Live Injun ”to wind
up with, and he is very much alive. He is not
built according to the plans and specifications of
Fcnimore Cooper’s Chingachgook, but he is a
fearfully depraved Injun none the less, and we
can only hope no missionary will ever get hold of
him, for his conversion would be a down-
right calamity to the faithful. The clothes
of this untutored son of nature are hardly
up to the mark, for in his wild state the Injun
wears little hut a nose-ring and can hang his
whole wardrobe on a twig, but, after all, this is a
mere detail, and if he had acted the character to
the life it might have caused a prejudice in ar-
tistic circles.
Perennially popular with the people vho
like . that kind, of thing, the Sydney Alhambra
continues to attract the accustomed crowds. The
Alhambra audience is always one which likes to
get full value for its money, and rarely is content
with anything less than a double “ angcore.” But
as a double allowance of an article which is not
appreciated would not be accounted an accession
of value, the “ angcore ” demanded by the gallery
with a whistling chorus like unto the swirl of
tornadoes through a corn-patch for volume and
shrillness, is a distinct compliment anyhow.
Miss Violet Kingsley is the latest recruit, and
her smile alone would pass a much less competent
vocalist.
Tv '7V' *7\r
The announcement that Titheradge would
play “Hamlet” for his benefit, drew a mighty
multitude to the Melbourne Royal last Thursday.
Lovers —real and professing—of the immortal bard
filled every seat and blocked up every gangway.
Humble devotds of the classic drama, who do
most incline towards the Ghost and those deeds of
gore with which “Hamlet” reeks, howled appro-
bation from the upper regions and expectorated
approval into the stalls below. In the circle
gathered a great contingent of the Shakespeare
society. Pleasant it was to watch these ladies
and gentlemen during the progress of the play.
They leaned forward with brows wrinkled and
lips parted to drink in the old familiar soliloquies.
They exchanged superior glances when any slight
slurring of the text grated upon their educated
ears. Being interpreted, those glances meant —
“ The vulgar herd above, below, and around us
noticed not that omission, but we, who have been
reading up the tragedy for the last week, marked
it well, and will have something to say upon the
subject at our next monthly meeting.” But, no
matter —the play’s the thing. No good actor ever
failed as Hamlet. The character provides oppor-
tunities in plenty, and the intelligent artist is
bound to do much even though he leave much
undone. Without preaching a sermon about
Titheradge’s Hamlet, we may describe it as essen-
tially of the new school. Some of his business is
identical with Irving’s, none of it is ponderous.
The soliloquies are thought out and not rolled out.
The scene with the Queen is altogether excellent
and free from rant. Titheradge, in a word,
plays Hamlet upon the lines laid down in
his own advice to the players. Neverthe-
less he contrives to leave his audience doubt-
ful whether that young man really was mad, or,
if so, whether his brain affection was of an inter-
mittent nature. “ Gimlet ” was either “ dotty”
in real earnest or feigned to be so. In either case
he would have shown a little more fire than did
Mr. Titheradge in the big scenes. Mr. T. is
neither a dark Dane nor a fair Dane. He wears
his own moustache and assumes a brown wig to
match. Perhaps we are hypercritical, but we
thought his appearance somewhat lacking in dis-
tinction. The play was satisfactorily put on the
stage and the support fairly efficient. From the
crowd, Mr. Stirling White’s Polonius stood out by
itself—natural and pleasing. It was a perform-
ance that he has our permission to be proud of.
Miss Maggie Knight, as Ophelia, is weak in
elocution but strong in madness, and Mrs. George
Gordon makes a very fair Queen as queens go.
Titheradge addressed the company after the 4th
act, and must have gone home pleased with things
in general.
‘7Y* '7v~ T TV*
While “ intellect ” was packing Melbourne
Royal, frivolity was flocking to the Opera House.
Another big ben. was on there. Mr. Armes
Beaumont is about to retire from the operatic
stage, and his many old friends and admirers were
invited to see him play “Don Caesar de Bazan ”
for the last time. They came in their hundreds
and their thousands, and the theatre was filled
with enthusiasm and money. The retirement of
such an old identity as Mr. Beaumont will mark
an epoch in the history of the Australian operatic
■ tage - * * * *
“ The Sins of the City ” Continues to run succe s s •
fully at Sydney Royal Standard. There are a good ma ny
tilings in it which seem to strike the popular tasta > an d a
saucer-headed individual who totters through this vale of
tears sowing seeds of kindness as he goes, is an especial
favourite. But in spite of his many virtues this benevolent
individual uses language to his adopted daughter which
causes that young lady to faint with her head outside the
door in order to get air, and then he stands in the centre of
the room and gazes stolidly at her pretty unconscious boots
spread out within, and shows no signs of remorse. The same
lady faints afterwards under still more distressing circum-
stances, and is carried off by what looks like a stubbly beer-
cask of the most unwashed description, but the cask is not
allowed to execute his avowed intention of flinging her in the
river, and she turns up again in the last act after an inter-
lude in a damp cellar. In this final appearance she flings
herself into the arms of a fossil and weeps on his shoulder
with her hair streaming down her back, and these tears and
these hair fetch the audience every time.
-AA. «AA. nt,
'7v' 'a' 'Tr *7v'
“ The Soggarth ” is getting near the end of his
career at Sydney Royal, and soon his shovel-hat will cease
to beam in front of the lake and he will grab the atrocious
murderer by the neck for the last time. As for the assassin
himself, we fancy he will be glad when it is all over, for every
night when he is run in he is bumped along on his knees
like a skinny dog being towed behind a waggon on a rough
road. His part is not a very difficult one in the first part of
the drama, and he wails contentedly enough outside the
church, looking tolerably healthy for a broken-hearted
spectre-haunted ruffian, but when he is jumped along on his
boniest part on the road to the gallows he is an object for
sincere sympathy. In this drama, as in a good many others
there is a certain want of finish. Poetic justice would be
best served if the criminal were hanged on the stage, and
then he ought to decay rapidly among the side scenes, and
when he is reduced to a skeleton the audience would at least
have the satisfaction of knowing that there was no chance of
him coming back to life. Probably the want of perfection
manifested in this matter is owing to the fact that the com-
pany wish to use the same man over again on the ensuing
evening, but it is a pity that the story should not be carried
to its legitimate conclusion all the same.
A/, AA.
*/Y* IT W
Emily Soldene—she of the famous mouth—is now in Lon-
don, where she is singing in a new opera by Hervti.
The Dan. Barry Dramatic Company have been starring at
Tumut (N.S.W.) where they did good business for three days.
The Melbourne Age speaks of Mr. Guylielmo Verdi. This
makeß it apeear that the popular Signor is a Frenchman.
Pei ish the thought 1 The Signor is—but no matter.
Thus does the London Referee dispose of Jennie Lee in
the character of Sam Willoughby. “All I shall say about
her is that she is too fat for the part, and that she doesn't
understand it.” If much of this sort of thing is going on, we
shall have the fair Jennie back in Australia shortly.
The first Joran concerts at the Melbourne Athenseum
were poorly attended. The Governor and Lady Lodi
“ showed," but, somehow, their Excellencies don’t draw the
Victorians as they once did. The advent of Carington has
knocked a lot of gilt off Sir Henry Loch’s gingerbread
greatness
Last week we said that Phil. Day had been struck by
paralysis at Adelaide. We expressed sympathy. It was
quite thrown away, as such things generally are. Mr. Day
is making merriment in “ The Great Pink Pearl,” at Mel-
bourne Bijou. The admiring public alone is paralysed every
evening till further notice.
Miss Menser, a pupil of Mr. Sydney Moss, made <i very
favourable impression, upon her first appearance in Sydney
on Monday night. Assistance during the evening was ren-
dered by several well-known amateurs and professionals.
Miss Florence Neville, who has not appeared on the Sydney
concert platform since ’Bl, and Mr. Arthur Davis, who has
a comprehensive bass voice, were also among the performers.
Holloway’s Dramatic Company comes south this week,
opening at Sydney Opera House on Saturday, Ilth, in the
“Ring of Iron.” Pretty Essie Jenyns is with them, so are
Alice Deorwyn and Miss Nita Steele, neither of whom, We
may casually mention, are absolute strangers to the city.
Mr. Albert Norman, who plays heartless libertine, base
deceiver, and ruthless assassin parts, is also of the troupe
Charles Godfrey, the original “Masher King” of London
music halls, has filed his schedule. His earnings have
averaged £5O a week for years past. We have heard Godfrey
howl out “ Here stands a Post,” to the intense delight of
pewter-pot patriots. We have also heard him sing ditties so
11 blue ”as to make us blush down to our boots. It seems,
however, that Chailes dropped a lot of money by running
“ Sunday evening Scripture readings and dramatic recitals.
The impudence of his venture deserved better success.
The first Sunday evening concert at Sydney Gaiety, under
the management of Messrs. Samurll and Knight Aston, was
a decided success, though some trouble was occasioned by
the circumstance that four ladies who had undertaken to
sing backed out, either thiough conscience or indigestion
Messrs. Denzil and Glendinning, and Messrs. Knight Aston,
Alf. Holland, Arthur Gordon, and Radcliff divided the
honours among them. The chronic skirmish of concert
v. catechism is still going on, but at the present moment
concert is ahead.
The Morality Society of Melbourne have just come off
badly in an attack on the Silk Stockings Troupe at the Vic-
toria Hall. Sundry gorgeous posters had been displayed by
the company in conspicuous places throughout the city
whereon the ladies of the troupe were depicted, arrayed in
very much more of stocking than of any other garment.
The Morality Society asked the Chief Commissioner of Polioe
to suppress them—either the ads., or the stockings, or the
legs, or something, but the Commissioner firmly arid em-
phatically wouldn't. The decision has immersed the morality
people in gloom, but business at the “ Victorierorl ” has im-
proved considerably.
Emelie Melville and Verdi were summoned in a Melbourne
court last week at the instance of a Hongkong doctor. He
claimed one guinea from the signor and four guineas from
the goddess. Hongkong is a good long way off Melbourne,
and the case was dismissed. Verdi asserted that the medcine
man had taken out the value of his professional attendance
in hospitality—his, the Signor’s, hospitality. Very possibly
the doctor had—anyway he showed shocking bad form in
summoning Miss Melville. We can understand him asking
for Verdi’s guinea. That is human. The other demand is
inhuman. We should consider an inspection of Miss Mel-
ville’s tongue, and a pressure of her pretty pulse dirt cheap
at nothing at all.
Madame Christine Nilsson, whose first husband died of
brain-softening, is going to take unto herself another. The
lucky man is Count de Miranda, a Spanish bigwig. This is
. how the songstress prattled of her intended nuptials to a
New York interviewer: “Only a very few near friends will
attend the wedding. I hate the idea of making any fuss
over the affair. So does the Count. You see, lam not so
young as I was, and this is not a first marriage. Besides,
marriage is such a private and sacreo matter that it seems a
sacrilege to vulgarise it. Don’t you think so?” Either
Christine was “poking borak” at the newspaper man, or
else she has forgotten all about that first marriage. It was
celebrated in St. Paul's Cathedral (specially hired for the
occasion), and was altogether one of the most gaudy and
numerously attended “shpws” in which she ever played
leading lady.
The Queensland Evangelical Standard
(edited—dreadful thought!—by the Reverend
father of Sir Sawmill Griffith, Q.C.,) writes:—
“We consider ourselves about as loyal as our
neighbours, but we must confess that our gorge
rises a bit over this presentation to the Prince of
Wales. ” We shall next hear that Frawncis Habigle
has turned Socialist.
It is cabled that on the rejection, by 96
votes, of Mr. Sexton’s amendment on the address
in the Commons, the “ Irish party and the Radi-
cals (italics ours) proceeded to adopt obstructive
tactics and prevent the further progress of busi
ness.” Salisbury and Co. are evidently now in
for some fearful experiences, as the cloture and
iron-hand rules adopted some time since by the
Commons were framed to operate against the Irish
party alone, and not in contemplation of the exis-
tence of so numerous, solid, and determined an
Opposition phalanx as that formed by the Irish
Nationalists, the Scotch and Welsh Liberals, and
the English Radicals. Ireland is again in a most
disturbed condition.
Relieved of the onerous duties attendant
upon Jubilee celebrations, the Sydney Council has
condescended to the contemplation of the city
sewer question. Sixty men were dismissed last
week, and the remaining 240 are, it is said, to be
presented also with that unhonoured order of the
sack which can be obtained without grovelling,
gorging, or champagne-swilling. The alleged
reason for these dismissals is the desire of the
Council that big contracts should be let for the
work, instead of having it done by the piece as at
present. If the Council were not wholly possessed
by the seven devils of municipal muddling, it
would be worth while to advise sotne caution re-
garding the future letting of these big contracts.
Big contracts often enough mean big fortunes to
the people who have the singular luck to get their
highly remunerative tenders accepted.


Pepper
Salt
We pity murderer Reynolds, of Sydney,
from the bottom of our heart, lie assassinated
his wife, and just before the last sentence of the
law was pronounced upon him by Judge Innes,
who should be brought up to give evidence as to
his character but his mother-in-law, Mrs. Braine: —
“His Honor: ‘ How long had the prisoner been married
to your daughter ? ’
“ Mrs. Braine (weeping): 1 About seven years.’
“ His Honor: 1 Hid you see much of their married life? ’
“ Mrs. Braine : ‘ Just from yjinj to and fro.
Yes, that’s always the way— 11 just from going to
and fro.”
* * *
A London cablegram the other day an-
nounced the foregone conclusion that “it is im-
probable that proceedings will be instituted
against Sir Charles Dilke for perjury. In spite of
the attitude of shocked innocence adopted by the
London Press, no one really believed that a man
with a title would receive the reward of his de-
linquencies like a common “scrubber.” —
Sin is rampant at Queanbeyan. From the
local Age Boys and young men marble-play-
ing in our principal streets last Sunday. What
are our police about 2” Marble-playing on Sun-
day ! Pass the jawbone :
The Lancet is at us once again with a few
words about sunstroke. To escape this complaint,
it seems that we must do something more than
merely keep away from the sunshine. Unless we
eat, drink, and be melancholy on the lines laid
down by the Lancet, we can have sunstroke in
the seclusion of the coolest cellar. Bear this
always in mind. The only infallible preventives
are light food, light clothing, light work, and
light drinks. Now, light work is a remody we
have tried for years, with most successful results.
But the light drink recommended by the Lancet
doth indeed give us pause. It is “a quart of
boiling water poured on a teaspoonful of marma-
lade.” Pass the marmalade—the mandolin, we
mean
A correspondent of the S.M. Herald
thinks a statue of Beach should be unveiled
during the fifteen days’ national spree in 1888.
The idea is simply immense. And the statue
should he placed on the King-street pedestal
which is supposed to he awaiting a statue of
Queen Victoria. Mr. William Beach is now
much more respected in Sydney than Queen
Victoria.
The colonial poet is, as a rule, sadly un-
appreciated. The Australasian man of verse is,
in most instances, a clod-hoofed exile in the back
districts, where he shears sheep or carts clay all
day, and then in the evening he devours a heavy
supper and writes some verses for the local paper
before turning in to snore with his mouth open.
In N.Z. this overfed muse is conspicuous. Two
or three years ago a genius in that colony pub-
lished a whole volume of agricultural hog-lyrics,
in one of which he described —
“ The gay and peerless tui,
Which bears the news to Wanganui,
While the bard of Tapanui,” &c.,
and then went on to tell of a chase after a wild
pig, when his dog held the grunter by the ear—
And I fast followed with a rail,
To wattle him about the tail.”
Within the last few weeks, however, a new poet
has arisen in N.Z. He is an Auckland compositor,
and he offered recently to write a few lines about
a friend’s mother. The friend apparently did not
care much about lines on his mother, but he pre-
sently received I t verses of inky slush regarding
the lady who spanked him in infancy, with a
demand for two guineas iif payment thereof.
Then he urged the frenzied muse to leave the spot
on pain of being run through a brick wall, and
the muse left accordingly. He was so ill-advised,
however, as to sue for the two guineas, and under
cross-examination he declared hjs “ pome ” to be
quite as good as Tennyson’s “In Memoriam.”
But, with a rashness bordering on lunacy, he
deliberately read the verses on the other man’s
mother in open Court, and by the time he had got
to the eleventh item of cubic gush his case, to
quote a local print, “ had gone hopelessly bung.”
The irate magistrate gave a verdict for the de-
fendant, and ordered the plaintiff, the mother,
and the “pome” to clear out. After all, it does
not pay to be a genius.
* * *
A gentleman who calls himself H. W.
(short for Hog Wash, perhaps) is going it very
strong in the Adelaide papers against gambling
and the totalisator. He says that Wash, junr., is
getting demoralised and came home the other day
from school with about 100 buttons which he had
won at the hazard of his washed-out soul. There-
upon old Wash read an appropriate chapter from
the Bible —the old version, the one with the ever-
lasting punishment in it —and started off the wail-
ing grimy little saint to hump back the buttons.
Old Wash, we presume, did something more than
read and pray, which accounts for the wailing.
On the strength of these circumstances he writes
a long letter against the totalisator, and seemingly
knows all about it, though he says he is 50 years
of age and has never been on a racecourse or
staked his holy hoots on three kings and a small
pair in his whole miserable, shrivelled existence.
Of such is the kingdom of slush.
* * *
Apropos of the recent attempt to raise
the minimum weight of jockeys, we may mention
that a certain crack Victorian pigskin straddler,
who rides a little over 6st., is married to a very
much better-half, who stands sft. Bin., and turns
the scale at 1681bs. It occasionally happens that
her lord and master looks upon the wine when it’s
red, and keeps his gaze fixed thereon until it
begins to look rather blue. When this happens,
his thoughtful spouse comes along, lifts her good
man into her apron, and carries him safely home,
as she might do a head of cabbage. Going
down the street one night with her precious parcel,
a certain metallician met her, and said —“ Hello,
Mrs. ——, what have you got in the bundle ? ”
Instantly the pugnacious little light-weight
popped up his head and replied—“ She’s got a
good man in it, if you want t’ know, an’ if
if she’ll only let me out I’ll blank soon prove it
on your ugly countenance.” Luckily, however,
the bloodthirsty hero was not let out, and the 1
coroner was spared the trouble of an inquest.
* * *
The Sydney Anglican authorities, finding
that they can’t do any really solid work with
either the male whites, blacks, or half-breeds of
the community, have now tackled the yellow man,
and they lately raked 350 slant-eyed pagans into one
infected building. It is a reproach to the Church,
a bitter satire on its impotence, that it can’t get
even one hundred and fifty full-grown male whites
to attend church service at any time unless Lord
Carington be present. This isn’t a very pleasant
statement, but who will dare to deny its truth ?
* * *
There is in Melbourne a Presbyterian
clergyman who is studying medicine. You twig
his little game ?
Unparsonlike,
“ Not only would I preach, I’d practise, too,
Quoth Parson Ick.
“I’ll point the way
To Heaven, and send my patients there, perforce
Of arsenic.”
* * *
Here is a sad story from Goulburn.
Brother Fenton O’Neill, one of the Patrician
teachers at the Catholic school there, was in the
habit of sending one or other of the pupils from
the school to fetch his lunch and his letters at
11 a.m. every day. This was observed by a vulgar
little boy of the name of Camby, who, with what
Tennyson calls “the deep mind of dauntless
infancy,” resolved to secure that lunch, or perish.
So he went to Brother Fenton’s housekeeper at
half-past 10, represented himself as a properly-
accredited messenger, got the lunch and one
letter, devoured the lunch, tore up the letter, and
for a time was hideously happy. But Nemesis
overtook him, and brought 48 hours. His father
said he had great trouble with the boy, and had
no sympathy with him :
To be heir to large riches and rank must be truly
an excellent thing,
To have titles plus cash at the bank, with long
rent-rolls, what joy it would bring !
But for us upon earth there is none from whom
titles and wealth can accrue—
We shall never see half of the fun that these pat-
terns of noblemen do.
If he left us such bliss on this sphere, when he
drained the last dregs of life’s cup,
How o;ir ancestor’s name we’d revere when he
fitted his wings to fly up ;
We would drink, as he quitted the earth, right
good luck to his trip through the blue,
Then start on a career of real mirth, like these
patterns of noblemen do.
We’d ensure that his grave was kept green, till
his body was phosphate of lime,
While we streaked for some joyfuller scene and
prepared for a jovial time :
The virtuous paths we now tread, we would quit
and all pleasure pursue,
While the mazes of vice we would thread, as
these patterns of noblemen do.
Of bad models we’d never run short, till the pre-
sent swell mob end their days.
There are numbers of every sort upon whom we
could fashion our ways ;
With youth and abundance of cash our young Gum-
boil should teach us to woo—
All the girls—yoii can bet we would mash like
these sprigs of nobility do.
When the pleasure from this source had flown, at
other delights we would aim,
For a nobleman hardly is known, till some
scandal’s attached to his name;
To entice a weak woman astray, just like Shrews-
bury, Dilke, and that crew,
Is to walk in the privileged way in which patterns
of noblemen do.
The Marlborough system might seem, to our wife,
if we got one at last,
A curious kind of regime—when the conjugal
sky is o’ercast,
A kicking appears to his mind a great factor in
“ taming the shrew ”
Not a method to navvies confined —it’s what some
of the noblemen do.
Then the Lonsdales, a very nice pair, there is one
whose address is—ah, well !
We cannot state certainly where —but wherever
his spirit may dwell,
He has left a successor below, or above (it depends
on his view),
Who is qualified amply to show what a noble is
licensed to do.
After all we will stay as we are, and all longing
for titles dismiss,
Though we’d like to be wealthier far, we are
morally certain of this,
In a circumscribed dwelling of stone, with little
round bars to peep through,
We should spend many moons all alone, if we did
what these noblemen do.
How we yearn to establish a mission, when read-
ing this item of news,
To improve the low moral condition of sadly be-
nighted “yahoos,”
For those who ne’er enter a church in, what doubt
but the ultimate state
Will be, for the wretched bush-urchin, the sad end
that the saintly relate ?
They must perish and swell the dread legions, who
languish in infinite woe.
In brimstone and sulphurous regions, of tropical
climates below.
Poor beings ! they care not a fraction for clerical
teaching the while
Their marbles possess an attraction the Sabbath of
rest to beguile.
Lost souls ! they will ever be banished from realms
that are bright and serene,
Unless all their crimes shall have vanished ere
bidding adieu to this scene ;
We could send up a crowd, should they will it, to
show these poor sinners the track,
And give them a long sort of billet—that is, till we
send for them back.
Parkes, for one, “ would take well and give plea-
sure to all” in those regions of crime,
And afford us relief beyond measure to know he
was gone for a time.
Then Neild, when he once got the hang of the job,
without fear of restraint
Could jaw for nine hours in the slang of the truly
conventional saint.
Judge Docker, we think, we could spare, too ; his
presence up there would suggest
The sentence the sinner is heir to, if not yarded
up with the blest;
Of fellows whose swindles and thieving, pretences
of piety hide,
We could send, we are firm in believing, some
scores from the Adelaide side.
And a nice little lot ive could muster, to show
these poor sinners the way,
That the fully complete snufftebuster makes cant
and hypocrisy pay ;
Thus, trucking this lot to allure them from vices
to which they are prone,
Their happiness we should ensure them, and very
much ditto our own.
UGH!!
If a man can place reliance
On the warning words of science,
Life is hardly worth the living,
We are much inclined to think—
Doctors seek to throw a damper
On our happiness, and hamper
Us with nasty ne w restrictions
When we want to eat and drink.
Now they caution us that “ dining ”
When the summer sun is shining
Is not at all unlikely
To be followed by a stroke ;
And—though hunger it appeases—
As tobacco breeds diseases,
A man who’d live for ever
Musn t venture on a smoke.
When our thirst requires slaking
We must careful be of taking
Any beverage that’s pleasant—
Certain laws must he obeyed.
The liquor says the Lancet
(If you’ve pluck enough to chance it)
Is a quart of boiling water,
With a lump of marmalade.
That is not at all our notion
Of a decent sort of “ lotion,”
It doesn’t please the palate,
And it’s very bad for trade ;
We would much prefer some porter
To a quart of boiling water,
Just flavoured with the bitterness
Of orange marmalade.
But the growing days remind us
That a month or two will find us
With the summer sun above us,
And the weather very hot;
’Twill be then a question whether
We shall pull ourselves together,
And do the things the Lancet
Says we ought to do —or not.
No. These awful men of science,
We must set ’em at defiance
If they really will keep making
Such discoveries as these ;
They can fill their constitutions
With hot marmalade solutions,
While the poet sips his rum
Beneath the shelter of the trees.
THE AUSTRALIAN CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.
FIRST DAY.
Sympathy, indeed ! With birchen
Rod would we afflict this urchin
Till he bowed before the laws of meurn tuum.
If its ancient power to damn be
With the Church, we fear this Camby
Will be damned for deeds like this. How can
he do ’em ?
Sympathy, indeed ! Far rather,
Were we that boy’s worried father,
We would sympathise with the unhappy priest—
We would shed tears for the other,
The defrauded hungry Brother,
Not the boy who had the sly strategic feast!
Who can tell what fare delicious
Was secured by that bad, vicious,
Wicked, troublesome, irreverent small lad ?
Had the season but been Lenten,
O, defrauded Brother Fenton,
How acutely would that cute boy have been
had !
PERSONAL ITEMS.
So the N. S. W. Patriotic Fund, less 10 per
cent., is to be returned to the subscribers ! Are
the titles purchased by that sum also to be re-
turned less self-respect ?
‘ ‘ Governor Carington assented to a lot of
bills yesterday ; but he never dissents from any-
thing.” A nice thing to say about a man who
tries to makes himself agreeable.
The champion whisky-drinker of N.S.W.
is a certain Northern Alderman who once declared
that “nothing would ever induce him to surround
more than 30 nips before 11 a.m., but after that he
trusted to Nature to keep his balance.”
The S.M. Herald is worth to its pro-
prietors about £BO,OOO a year, or say, £250 a day.
the Melbourne Age, which is the next best Aus-
tralian journalistic property, is believed in news-
paper circles to return £40,000 annually,
It is only fair to Sir Patrick Jennings,
who is often accused of employing Chinese cheap
labour, to state that, whereas his neighbours have
in many cases reduced wages from £1 a week to
17s. 6d. and even 155., he still keeps the wire-
rangers at the “John Dunn.”
The magnificent Mr. Charles Lett, of
London, objects, we notice, to being called
“ Charlie.”. We can’t help it. We perceive that
it is Cha—- —, we mean Mr. Lett’s practice (and it
is a splendid specimen of his brilliant wit) to write
and speak of Sir Saul Samuel as “ Solly.”
The late Madame Wallace Bushelle (sister
of Vincent Wallace, the composer) taught music
most successfully for many years in Sydney. It
was Madame who, when practising her profession
in New York, was entrusted by Strakosch with
the early musical education of Adelina and Car-
lotta Patti.
That venerable and benevolent millionaire,
Mr. Thomas Walker, of Yaralla, Concord, Sydney
died last week, aged 82. There are a lot of people
who are quite sorry it wasn’t another Mr. Thomas
Walker. Deceased left £2,000,000, of which his
daughter gets £500,000, and the probate duty
fund £BO,OOO.
Here is an old story which touchingly
illustrates the Queen’s consideration for her people.
When the first of her little nine saw daylight,
Prince Albert expressed some regret—on behalf of
the nation, thoughtful man! —that the precious
infant wasn’t a prince. “Never mind,” said the
royal invalid, “ the next shall be a boy.”
Champion Beach, it is wired, while lead-
ing the beaten Teenier, stopped rowing, and took
off his hat to Mrs. Wentworth, whom he saw on
the river bank. We hope the cableman is lying,
as usual. Hanlan’s indecent antics, while enjoy-
ing the misery of the vanquished Trickett, were
remembered in the hour of the Canadian’s defeat.
Henry Ward Beecher was starring last
month at the London City Temple. Talmage has
rather knocked the oily old preacher out of time in
America, but as the hero of Mrs. Tilden’s cele-
brated “confessions,” Ward Beecher is an object
of pious interest to the English ladies. And it is
generally understood that English ladies are
objects of interest to H.W.B.
The eloquent George Higinbotham, who
once was editor of the Melbourne Argus, will be
the new Chief Justice of Victoria. Taken all in
all, he is the man of whom Australia has most
reason to be proud. His splendid intellectuality
is unsullied by self-seeking. As a politician he
was above corruption, as a judge he is above
cruelty. As a man he is loved by the people.
The British court circle is concerned over
Prince Albert Victor’s penchant for the Princess
Victoria, daughter of the Duchess of Teck. At a
recent private ball the young prince insisted on
dancing five times with his innamorata. The
Queen and the Prince of Wales both disapprove
of this infatuation. They intend that Prince
Albert Victor shall marry outside of the family.
Arthur Orton says his sense of rectitude
didn’t sustain him to the slightest extent while in
prison. Probably it wouldn’t have done so if it
had been the genuine article instead of a counter-
feit. The truth is, in spite of the declaration to


the opposite effect, punishment for the sinfulness
of which one is not guilty is harder to bear than
punishment that is deserved. Your criminal
takes his shame coolly. Your innocent man dies
of it.
“ The whirligig of time,” &c. When the
Tasmanian Parliament was asked for a grant of
money to enable the colony to be represented
at the Indo-Colonial, the then Premier, Adye
Douglas, strenuously and successfully opposed the
same. Now, as Tasmanian Agent-General, Mr.
Douglas finds himself nowhere compared with the
Commissioners, and it is only through Berry’s in-
fluence that he participates at all in the festivities
in honour of the colonials.
According to the Bourke (N. S. W.) Watch-
man, a certain individual who some time since
bled the Orangemen, Weslcyans, and other lost
tribes for large sums under pretence of building
some great establishment for the support of Chris-
tianity, has swamped the Christian bank by
bucking against three aces and a pair of kings. It
is rather rough on the public who have been pay-
ing to support piety, and have only propped up
the heathen game of poker.
Unitarian parson Walters, of Melbourne,
in satirising the newly-formed Ballarat “Morality
Vigilance Committee,” asks how it happens that
that saintly body doesn’t number amongst its
members the notorious local reverend sermon-
thief and lecture-cribber, and remarks that, “as
that holy person still preaches morality from his
pulpit twice every Sunday, he might surely con-
demn the theft of a loaf without making unplea-
sant reference to the theft of a lecture.”
The Victorian Minister of Works—Mr.
Nimmo —is credited with being “ the best judge of
wine and whisky in the House.” This is a proud
position to hold—much prouder than to be the
best politician ; for while there are few politicians
worth the name in the Victorian Assembly, almost
every member thereof is a judge of liquor. The
statement will look well on his tombstone : ‘ 4 He
was the best judge of wine and whisky in the
House of Parliament.” Volumes could not say
more.
He is still a good groveller. Let us tell
the old story. His name was—yes, Brown, and
when Sir Hercules Robinson arrived to “ govern ”
N.S.W., Brown made his way on board the mail-
steamer where, not being an official, his presence
was wholly unnecessary. Sir Hercules had been
told all about Mr. Brown, and in the confusion of
first introductions, saw somebody profoundly
salaaming to him. “ Yes, Brown,” said Sir Her-
cules, “it’s all right; you’ve been well recom-
mended—we’ll keep you on.” And yet he is still
sampling vice-regal boot-blacking.
We hear from England that the cheap
edition of the late Marcus Clarke’s novel, “His
Natural Life,” has been so great a success in the
Australian colonies that Messrs. Bentley, the
London publishers, have at various times re-
mitted to Mr. Clarke s widow —now in charge of
a Melbourne suburban post-office—monies amount-
ing in all to £230. As Mr. Bentley was not
obliged to pay one farthing, his liberality is
beyond praise, and will be thoroughly appreciated
by the late author’s friends, who will be relieved
to hear that Mrs. Clarke has been so handsomely
dealt with.
Hon. John Madden, LL.D., will probably
be appointed to the vacant Victorian judgeship.
He was at one time Victorian Minister of Justice
and was a prominent figure in public life. Although
he always voted with the Conservatives, he was
very popular among all parties owing to his
suavity of manner, sterling integrity, and notable
erudition. About four years ago he deserted the
unprofitable field of politics in order to pay more
attention to his barristerial duties, and soon suc-
ceeded in getting a very large and lucrative
practice at the Victorian bar.
A new story about a certain ‘ representa-
tive Australian.” He called the other day at
Highclerc, Lord Carnarvon’s seat, and sent in his
card—accompanied, if you please, by his carte-de-
visite, which by the merest chance happened to be
in his pocket at the time. And, by one of those
unaccountable accidents which somehow or other
do come off occasionally, he also had in his pocket a
copy of the menu of the banquet given to him by
an admiring public just before he left Australia.
That he sent in too. What did Lord Carnarvon
do ? Why, Lord Carnarvon simply screamed with
laughter, and told James to show him in.
Sir William Foster Stawell, the retiring
Chief Justice of Victoria, who will draw a fat
State pension for the rest of his days, was a
tolerably good lawyer, and had for many years
been “looked up to” by the piety and eminent
respectability of Melbourne in much the same way
as several Sydney legal luminaries of similar
intellectual calibre are adored by the pious
“gentility” of the city of the Beautiful Har-
bour. On the bench, Sir William was austere
in his manner and severe in his sentences. His
star was once pretty high in the political horizon,
and he was always a thoroughpaced Tory.
Grattan Guinness, M.R.C.S., young and
good-looking, near connection of the great Dublin
brewers, is conducting a “revivalist” mission in
Victoria. At present he treads the boards of the
Melbourne Theatre Royal, on Sunday nights. It
is said that when Mr. Guinness renounced the
Devil and all his works (including bottled stout)
he threw away splendid pecuniary prospects. This
is to be regretted. In the family business Guin-
ness might have helped to strengthen and support
his fellow-man. But as a “revivalist” he isn’t
up to Harmy form. His salvation brew is one of
the weakest ever offered to the public.
One of the Queensland audit-officers who,
at the risk of his life, got to Birdville in the
drought time, speaks of the place as something
altogether out of the way. Beer was seven and
six a bottle, and what did duty for water was
painfully palpable to the nose a hundred yards off.
The camels that he and the sub-inspector rode
nearly caused a very good billet to become vacant,
and as it was one of the riders received marks that
he will carry to his grave. He states that out
there the people don’t seem to know anything
about Brisbane, its politics or its newspapers, and
that to all intents and purposes the country might
just as well belong to N.S. W. or Timbuctoo.
The Brisbane Telegraph is responsible
for the following remarkable advertisement:
BULGIN, of Israel, by the grace of God—
of the Plantagenet dynasty of England—slept the sleep
o-hui™ 1 ’ * n Hereford, Bowen Hills, Brisbane, on the
25th August, 1886,”
There is a deep and solemn pathos about this if
we could only dig it out. We are not intimately
acquainted with Bulgin, of Israel, who is now
bulging out among the cherubim, but from the
way he mixes up Britain and Jeroboam we pre-
sume he was descended from some mediaeval
pawnbroker who held a bill of sale over a remote
English king. Bulgin and King Billy were the
only monarchs we ever had in Australia, and now
we have lost Bulgin, and only Billy remains.
The “representative Australians” now in
England seem to be running the whole Australa
sian episcopate on their own depraved hook.
Henniker Heaton is trying to make Bishop Barrj
into an Archbishop, Berry is hawking round the
See of Melbourne among the obscure vicars ; and
finally we read that when Archbishop Benson, ol
Canterbury—that meek and lowly representative
of the Carpenter’s Son—“ gave his second garden
party” recently, among the gorgeous list of
lurid celebrities present was Sir W. J. Clarke,
the newly-manufactured baronet, of Victoria,
whose qualifications for mixing in such sacred
society are surely of the £s. d. order only. There
is always a front seat reserved for Dives at Arch-
bishop Benson’s “Palace” on these occasions.
Lazarus is never there.
Cora Pearl, the defunct Anglo-French
mondaine, figures in that remarkable novel,
“ Sapho.” She is “ Wilkie Cob,” the English-
woman, “jnry thin, with a girlish figure which
rendered more hideous her gaunt head, like a sick
clown’s under its shock of towy hair.” The
sketch accurately depicts the Cora Pearl of recent
years. There was, oven before she had passed
her prime, a peculiar “ Death’s head ” appearance
about the fashionable courtesan. Cora was a
tawdry, unwholesome-looking creature compared
with her old rival in infamy, “Skittles.” The
latter, by the way, has had almost as remarkable
a career as Cora Pearl, and still holds her own.
We had a glimpse of “ Skittles ” in London some
two years ago. She was taking the Hyde Park
air in a nicely-appointed brougham and a 100-
guinea sealskin.
“ Wales’ ” two naval sons and the volume
they concocted during the intervals when they
were not busy with the slush-bucket are already
at a discount. Their book contained one brilliantly
idiotic passage and a number of others which were
idiotic without the brilliancy, the single insane
gem reading as follows“ Did all those gallant
souls go down to Hades in vain, and leave nothing
for the Englishman but the sad and proud memory
of their useless valour ?” It now appears, how-
ever, that Charles Kingsley—from whose work,
At Last,” the words are stolen—supplied the
brilliancy, w'hile the princes contributed the other
thing by using the expression so as to convey the
idea that England’s heroes are all in Sheol. This
little swindle is awkward, for it sinks the princes
lower even than Isaiah Cohen, the Sydney loan-
office novelist, whose slush was at least original.
We always thought this precious pair of gildec
boobies were of the prig genus, but we hardly sel
them down as literary thieves—until now.
The indignant Melbourne husband who
not long ago loudly threatened a divorce-suit and
administered a severe thrashing to the man whom
he had elected as “ c 0.,” in the case, is now to the
fore with his little bit of blue paper. His name is
W eeding, he is a baker by trade, and as he aspires
fro be an M. P. it is almost unnecessary to say that
he is an Orangeman and a Rechabite. The alleged
sinner is the gay and festive Dr. J. Marmaduke
Rose, M. P. for North Melbourne, who, besides
being a heaven-born legislator, is also a Rechabite
and Orangeman, and frequently occupies the pul-
pit of the Methodist Church in his constituency.
Ihe fact of Dr. Rose being placed in such an un-
enviable though not unfashionable position before
the public has caused much excitement among his
pious brethren, and great efforts will, it is likely,
even now be made to keep the matter from coming
more prominently before the world. A note-
worthy feature about the whole affair is that the
three parties to the suit are intensely religious in-
dividuals and shining lights in the Methodist
Church. But then you know ’twas ever thus.
Poor Sir Charles Dilke appears to have
been terribly “ let in” over the second Crawford
trial. There is little doubt that the Queen’s Proc-
tor only “ intervened” at the co-respondent’s par-
ticular request. The baronet perceived that the
first hearing of the case had resulted in a way cal-
culated to seriously injure his political future.
Gheilsea, hadrejected him by a narrow majority.
Ilie Grand Old Man had “cut” him in the street.
Nothing remained for poor Charley but to got a
new trial and swear the tarradiddles which he
lacked the courage to swear in the first instance.
It was a bold step, but up to the very last he
relied upon a “ squaring” policy. Mrs. Crawford
was offered a handsome competency if she would
go into the box and contradict her previous con-
fession. Unfortunately for Charley, his sister-in-
law, Mrs. Ashton Dilke, defeated his intrigues in
this direction. Then, in desperation, he moved
heaven and earth to get the trial heard without a
jury. James Hannen, however, was too wary
to bo bad a second time. His Honour’s decision
in the original suit had got him into trouble, and
he declined to assist in any more jobs. When Sir
James decided in favour of trial by special jury,
1 )ilke s last hope vanished. At this crisis lie felt
the disadvantage of being a Radical. “Wales,”
who might have pulled him through his troublo
secretly exulted in his fall.
I >ishop Moorhouse, formerly of Melbourne,
and now of Manchester, has graciously acknow-
ledged a draft of £lll5 2s. Id. remitted by his old
admirers. Hereby hangs a tale! When the
Moorhouse testimonial was mooted, there was a
lively discussion as to whether it should take the
l oim of silver plate or hard cash. Then some-
body, “in the know,” suggested that the dear
Bishop would be best pleased with a gift of books,
and the best plan would be to hand over the
“greed” to the dear Bishop, so that he could
select the volumes for himself. Moorhouse—don’t
laugh, dear friends has only bought one volume
with that testimonial. It was a nice new cheque-
book. In advising Major Stewart that the £lll5
2s. Id. is duly to hand, the wily divine says: “I
may add, for I think you will like to know, that
it is a material help to me in meeting the enor-
mous expenses of my removal and re-settlement."
What a shocking take-down for the old ladies of
Melbourne ! The money which was to buy books
for their late Bishop, wherewith he might re-
plenish that stream of godly wisdom which re
fresheth the souls of all who drink thereat—that
money has been spent—how ? In paying the
“enormous expenses” of moving into a billet
worth £5OOO a year. By the way, ere concluding
this paragraph, we may mention that a certain Lon-
don paper made a ridiculous mistake in speaking oi
the Moorhouse testimonial. It took the liberty of
assuming that “Manchester” would decline the
money.
Swinburne, who has written such fine
things about Victor Hugo and other Nationalists,
has gone back a bit in his tracks. He has just
published a splendid poem attacking Gladstone,
which is, at least, a masterpiece of vigorous word-
wielding and brazen inconsistency. Everyone
who remembers and admires the fine things he
has said about human right, and human effort in
that direction, will be struck with the discordant
shriek of his verse on this occasion. He who
knew so well how to tell of the glories of the days
when —
“ The winds had the sound of a laugh, in the clamour of
days and of deeds,
And kings were scattered like chaff, and rulers broken like
reeds,” —
who attacked the Lords, and voiced the aspira-
tions of the people like a latter-day prophet in a
swallow-tailed coat instead of a fiery chariot, has
descended to libel the Irish Nationalists, and to
blackguard Gladstone because he goes for Home
Rule. Swinburne alludes to the former as thieves
and murderers, whose hands are red with blood,
and whose tongues are black with lies ; and to
Gladstone as a truckler to the traitors of the time.
Here is a taste of his quality :
What are these that howl and hiss across the strait of
westward water ?
What is he who floods our ears with speech in flood?
See the long tongue lick the dripping hand that smokes and
reeks of slaughter!
See the man of words embrace the man of blood !”
Of course he redeems himself by his magnificent
style. One phrase is a stroke of genius. He calls
Gladstone a “ tonguester.” This is splendid.
Fancy calling Parkes a “vain old tonguest er2”
THE AUSTRALIAN CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.
FIFTEENTH DAY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Another “ blow ” to the N.S.W. Ministry.
Dan. O’Connor, Im Pay, has ratted from Parker,
and squatted down alongside the Goveerninent.
Forty to nine was the vote in Queensland
Parliament on the Separation question. This is
not the first time that 40 men have been united in
a common cause.
“ It may be,” said Jawbone Neild, in the
N.S.W. Assembly last week, “that my own
stupidity prevents me from understanding the
question. And the “hear-hcar” chorus which
rang through the Chamber almost persuaded him
that his attempt at biting sarcasm was not more
than a strictly limited success.
Salisbury had intended to make a Royal
Prince Viceroy of Ireland and Lord Wolseley his
keeper ! When will the Marquis wake up to the
fact that he is not his own ancestor living under
Queen Elizabeth, but quite a recent structure
Just fancy that sawney young literary prig, Albert,
ruler of the destinies of Ireland, and his jackal
directing evictions! How long, O Lord, how
long!
Bishop Moorhouse, speaking at a Man
Chester tea-flght, said “he had the greatest difli
culty in refraining from applause when he heard
that a gentleman of the name of Lowther had
gained a seat in a neighbouring county.” Humph
We wonder what the Bishop said a few days later
when he heard that another gentleman named
Lowther (the Earl of Lonsdale) had enjoyed
rough-and-tumble in an actress’s bedroom with
that actress’s enraged and outraged husband !
In view of the large amount of hostile criti-
cism provoked by Sir Patrick Jennings’ centennial
celebration proposals, the N.S.W. Cabinet is now
engaged in considering an alternative scheme, the
main items of which are the construction, by
Chinese labour, of a great wall 40 feet high around
the colony, to facilitate the eradication of rabbits
and the collection of customs duties ; the offering
of a prize of £2OOO for the best argument that
honesty is the best policy in N. S. W. Governments;
and the appointment of Attorney-General Want as
a Judge of the Supreme Court and Referee-General
in all cases of morality and coonanism.
The N.S.W. Railway Department has been
galvanised into very much activity by recent
police-court disclosures. A few days since an
error was made in entering a small parcel from a
country station, and upon subsequent discovery
of the overcharge a letter covering two stamps to
balance the surcharge was received by the con-
signee, who was also informed that “ the mistake
in booking the parcel was made by the parcel
clerk, at , who will be suitably dealt with fur
this.” The concluding threat is ominous. Will
they, we wonder, hang this clerk or let him olf
with 100 lashes ?
The landowners of the square mile of land
which comprises the actual city of London, have,
since 1870, raised the rent-roll from £4,000,000 pci-
annum to £14,000,000, thus sweeping into their
pockets the profits of the businesses the merchants
and tradesmen of the city have made by their ow n
industry, enterprise, and expenditure. The same
process is going on in Australia, for only a few
days since, a Sydney draper, who had been paying
the very handsome rent of £l6OO a year for not
very spacious premises, found himself at the ex-
piration of a short lease, compelled to accept a
new term at the increased rental of £3600 per
annum, or yield his place to a business rival
enamoured of his costly improvements.
Thus does the Argus account for the
recent development of enlightened ideas among
the Japanese. Read the passage carefully. “Japan
alone among Eastern peoples possesses an aristo-
cracy in the European sense of the term, a body of
large landowners who . . by their position and
training are well fitted to lead the rest of the
nation along the paths of progress.” This is a
fair specimen of the Tory poison which “our
leading journal ” injects, six days a week, into the
system of young Australia. On the seventh day
the Argus proprietors pray for large landed pro-
prietors in general, and ask the Almighty to mer-
cifully endow this people with an aristocracy who
will conduct them along paths of progress. By
the way, Lord St. Leonards is already among us
commencing the good work.
Editor Bulletin,—Sir,—l think that to Sir
Patrick Jennings’ already magnificent 15-days’
centennial celebration scheme something of the
generous might be added. Let the Government,
for instance, enter into a contract with the pro-
prietors of the Sydney harbour steamers and pay
them so much a day to convey all comers to
wherever they may wish to go. The Sydney cab-
men might be dealt with in the same way, also
the railways, tramways, theatres, and music-halls.
Likewise the o yster-saloons and restaurants ; and
last—be still, my beating heart!—but not least,
the pubs. Yes, let us, if we are to have a 15
days national orgie, be in a position to “fly
round ” the whole time free. We could easily
borrow a few millions afterwards. “To £35,000,000,
cost of centenary drunk,” would read well in a
Treasurer’s statement. —L. J. Dubbo.
The Northumberland electors have re-
solved to rescue Mr. Ninian Melville, M.L.A.,
from his small financial troubles, and never before
in all colonial history was there such a to-do
about a paltry couple of hundreds owed by a legis-
lator. Ihe fact that so small an amount is re-
garded as of such great importance, to our mind
speaks volumes for the honesty of the whip with
the unfortunate name (we take it that since enter-
ing politics Ninian has done little in his spare
time but curse the memory of his godfather). In
the midst of it all, three thieves sneak into the
legislator’s premises and “lift” Ninian’s clothes
from the lines in the back yard. But the plucky
Mrs. Melville sees them,' “pins” one of them to
the fence, and hands him over to a policeman.
The Bulletin would be sorry to see the husband
of so plucky a lady embarrassed by debt, the more
especially as it knows that Ninian Melville has
deserved well of his constituents—that he has
spent a deal of his slender means in disinterestedly
fighting up-hill battles wherein he often deserved
if he did not command, victory, and that no one
ever applied to him in vain for charity while he
had a stiver in his pocket.


“The"" Day We Celebrate?”
"NEW SOUTH WALES (indignantly): “MY CENTENARY, YOU DARE TO CALL IT! ARE THESE THE THINGS OF WHICH YOU WISH ME TO REMIND THE WORLD?
ARE THESE THE MEMORIALS OF THE DAY YOU WOULD HAVE ME CELEBRATE? ” —(See page 4).


Things in General.
I '■ ■ ■ I,r nr*
7leZa/rre /snficrZzTtce of m- 3 exS / n:
TZu&ncc/rOcvt, cCcti/y /^e</>er% r - 7Zre 7arye 7/cccAcAsA
/n r+gremft 7A-e S<uc/Ka 9 - >
Tnafoti' rvocmo - Ke /„
freaf: <3a c>u.a,/t e /*- 7fie £/. £
,n UrA/c/t, c*. fre' a >-cXyu /a <,ctes&>ye ( S \
iU?t.c6 <z>o/rrf>r
Urns fifawsrt/v
VEtse/* "Pie/Tre^ci
¥ J?#j;Bs£
-&£J7^i
***!*”■'»**&£**
pen &&<>*■ - "Y/; e Y u
TrfteTe «<= es & e Te/hra/*'
jSS - T
/V//MS C#fi'ST/AM >
r 3er'-rj 'Z>*' / / t
(jg)L cultural <£so^
(to seel 09 Saturclay
> locality s otl \e jj/yl}
Tumping
Jumping"
>V a y lya/eio do
;tare i $
T re
/ a/ 7 Ki^/ywr
Uy~~
*?%?** «* .1L -
VtaTefa
7&
S^OCL
a/- /yart-fy (?/> e7>-
ccZ n-fffo’ ~~ (S/#^ 6 ™
y rie yfiresf Ctncl ffourerscf Oratory.
"Ms//™**'-!'"*
-/Lure teen- 7" eel /*'' A fa 'fy
foot son. you v [ twfe
1 Uncifounc) $U(fy ■
//artym anytime}
Wefay wAu &n7e7icey
°^ e u 7? l/c7?ro/^/
' ZZCo t %/g- "7^?>r
(§5/r 7b/r/cA -// c/on-f tA&
Jbofeu/ar, Zzrz f AfroecT~&Aza/'
/ 7tT maAe- <jfvA /y
/%/W^ S SUa/e fflZsl/'T/
yprsic/uer - ' /To, your /Y^/tcr
/Tty /faa/ft-er-/n. &o<t /?as 7es-
f-sf/ed aytn. ?n.e coicl Oty
yoorfraid /* as tee#., fate f-
(?c/ T/z 7de /ro^se
cztlc/. Ti/e /yo7///n~o 771 are
e f-Qe
W?S //mok - £xcq6e&4a/-!>
fre/,z77cner. /ay/acZn,^
yvur 6&cuc/?y7u f //&?'/?(?/-,
ff/S /io-nor ious cTee/vff' affect ect />-ron.ouricecC
«j 'enTence of /nu irotcz cfi-otec(cort%
/ TE/not/ ort-^


Society
The latest things in Paris fashions anc
superior London slang will bo largely representec
at the Melbourne Cup. A lot of the distinguished
ones have booked passages for September.
* » * *
The snubbing of Lady Graham Berry can
be easily explained. She is the victim of a royal
mistake. The Queen has mixed up Graham’s
conjugal relations with those of another distin-
guished Victorian statesman. It is said that
when the old political renegade was presented to
his Sovereign she whispered, “ Naughty man ! ”
* * *
Next to the Prince of Wales’ testimonial
fizzle, the worst is the frost over an appeal to
England for funds to build an Anglican Cathedral
in Adelaide. Can anything strike one as meaner
than this ! These pious people want a place to
save their souls in, and want the English to pay
for it. But the Briton is at last awake, and not
a stiver has been subscribed. How does Bishop
Kennion feel about it ?
* * *
Sunday dinners are at present the special
delight of Sydney society. They begin at 6.30
and end at about the same time —the next
morning.
Mr. Dan. Cooper’s bride (Miss
Harriet Grant-Suttee, second daughter
Of the late Sir James Grant-Suttee,
Bart., of Balgonie, Haddingtonshire)
is a niece of the Duke of Roxburgh,
and a member of a good old Scottish
family, whose blood is of sufficiently
azure tint to satisfy any ordinary
colonial aspirations. We have the
authority of Mr. Charles Lett for
saying that the young lady, whom he
(Charles) “ has frequently seen in the
Park,” is about 22, tall and graceful,
with a really superb figure. “ Though
she can hardly be called pretty, she
has a very nice interesting face, and
those who know her say that her
manners are charming, and her dis-
position ‘divine.’ She has no money,
but then her husband is blessed with
more than an ordinary share of for-
tune.”
* * *
Subscribers to the Melbourne
Telephone Exchange are protesting
against the eccentric working of their
wires. One man says the Company
is ‘ ‘ imperilling the salvation of those
who try to use the instruments.”
Perhaps the young lady operators are
most to be pitied. On first going to
the Exchange they were pure and
innocent, as all young ladies are
under natural conditions, It is im-
possible that they can be pure and
innocent any longer. Owing to de
fects in the system, thousands of oaths
pass through the “ receivers ” every
day. Such oaths, too! When two
men, who both want a different fel-
low, have rung one another up fifteen
consecutive times, they commence to
unburden their souls in a torrent of
blasphemy. The girls at the Central
can’t escape it. They find themselves
switched on to everybody, and there
they have to stand and listen and
sigh. Perhaps they get indifferent to
it all, poor things ! We know a man
who married a telephone girl. He
says that whenever he makes use of
naughty words, she just looks up in
a weary, vacant sort of way, and
whispers, “ Are you there ?” The
sound of a big big D awakens memo-
ries of the past.
* * *
Worth, of Paris, flatly declined
to build “ Cup” dresses for several
Australian ladies. He told them they
were so hopelessly out of drawing
that he wouldn’t risk his reputation as an artist
in an attempt to fix them up right. In one in-
stance, Worth took exception to the tint of the
lady’s face. There was no known colour which
would harmonise with it.
* * *
On Wednesday afternoon, Ist Sept., the
marriage of Miss Taeta Ilyan and Mr. Charles
Tindall, of Melbourne, took place at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst. The bride wore a handsome trained
robe of ivory satin, with clusters of orange blossoms
looping up the lace on one side. A pretty little
wreath of the bridal flowers was arranged in the
hair, over which fell a long tulle veil. Four brides-
maids were in attendance, and were dressed in
pretty soft Indian muslin and lace frocks, with
high-crowned hats ornate with lace and pearls.
The church was beautifully decorated, and the
wedding presents were unusually numerous, use-
ful, and good.
* * *
Lord and Lady Carington gave a very en-
ioyable dinner-party to about 30 friends on Wed-
nesday evening, Ist inst. After dinner about 200
guests arrived, and dancing was indulged in until
half-past 12. Lady Carington looked exceptionally
charming in a lovely pink gown, which fitted most
perfectly. Handsome dresses were also worn by
Mrs. Darley, Mrs. Wrench, Mrs; Robilliard, Miss
Hogg, Miss Milly Cox, Mrs. Gilles, Miss Cruick-
shank, and a few others.
* * *
On Thursday, 2nd inst., Admiral Tryon,
Captain Lake, and officers of H.M.S. Nelson gave
a dance on board in Sydney harbour. The ship
was as usual very beautifully decorated. On
the ’tween decks the naval men had planned
out a “zareba” of hammocks covered with
flags and hemmed in on every side. Enough
spooning was done there to last even a sailor for
a month. Flowers were arranged about the deck
in a most artistic manner, even the holes in the
bulwarks through which ropes usually go, were
bright with camelias and evergreens. As usual,
there was a good deal of dancing among the
younger portion of the guests to the music of the
flag-ship’s band, which certainly plays unimpeach-
I able time. There were 15 dances in all, chief!
round. At 3 p.m. the gubernatorial party arrived
and with her ladyship came two of her younj
daughters, to whom Captain Lake presented
basket of flowers. The little children looked
sweet enough, but they gave grovellers an op
portunity of saying that “ one could see at
glance they were English and not Australian, &c.
they looked so healthy. ” Lady Carington promptly
“ closed up ” one of these people by saying thal
“ the air of Moss Vale had done it all !” where-
upon exit Anglo-maniac. Among the 350 guests
wore observed Mrs. Busby, Mrs. Donkin, Mrs.
Wrench and her daughters, Mrs. Darley and
family, Mrs. G. B. Simpson, Mrs. Bouverie, Miss
Hogg, Mrs. H. Gullett, and the officers of H.8.M.,
ships Opal, Diamond, and Raven, and also that of
H.I.M.S. Albatross. Several military officers
also put their uniform on. At 5.30 p.m. the plea-
sant entertainmont came to an end.
* * *
The much-advertised Mr. Quong Tart, the
Chinese merchant-philanthropist, has at length
fallen a victim to the charms of lovely woman and
has led to the altar a young and highly attractive
Sydney.lady. We knew that must bo the end of
those duets. The gifted Tart entered on the cares
and joys of holy' matrimony on Monday week.
The bride was given away by the Hon. Jack
Want, while his brother was best man to the
benevolent Celestial. The happy Tart has taken
his bride to Ballarat, where they received an ova-
tion from the city—upwards of 1000 persons
awaited their arrival at the railway station. The
newly-married pair are the guests of ex-Mayor
and Mrs. Scott. Quong, we hear, was to be ban-
queted at the local Town Hall. But why ? The
explanation came late. There was to be a con-
cert, and 12 telephones were to convey the dulcet
strains to Governor and Lady Loch in Melbourne.
And these latter know what they are about. One
telephone could never convey the humour of one
of Quong’s comic songs. And again, it’s better to
hear Tart 250 miles off if you can—better still,
2500 —distance is the next best thing to being
stone-deaf. In conclusion, we trust the happy
Reading fhe
Bulletin
j wvo'
»V<f» A rt> Locale* -To
van> c?f sf(?AfTE^
man has placed his hand where his tart can be
also, and that the lovely bride, though Tart in
name, will never become Tart in nature.
* * *
Which reminds us : there were two very
suggestive cases on the divorce list in London at a
recent date : Tongue v. Tongue, and Tart v. Tart.
* * *
A Melbourne lady thus candidly discourses
upon a subject of very much interest to her sex.
“ Dear Bullletin,—l must confess I like the idea
of divided skirts. I’ve always hankered after
them from my earliest childhood. When very
young I used to climb trees, and, as a matter of
course, could not climb so well as my brothers—
wearers of trousers. When I grew up, I had to
leave off climbing trees (I believe I could do it
now, though), and then if I started to “shin”
over or through a post-and-rail fence, I came to
grief over my petticoats. Not my fault, hut my
misfortune, I was born a girl. And now when I
am too old to enjoy the “sweet boon,” they are
agitating for trousers, with frills on; we must
have frills—we are female. Can anyone imagine
the rest it would be to the female mind ? We
would have two pockets instead of one, and,
maybe, a pocket behind. And if we could only
learn the art we could gracefully light a match on
our divided skirt without lying under the base
imputation that we were lifting up our foot to
show our other ankle. The divided skirts, with
all their advantages, must come, hut too late for
me, I fear.”
* * *
What a terrible world this will be shortly !
While one Sydney paper is publishing letters from
an alleged “ Peeress,” whose voluptuousness
trembles on the borders of the indelicate, another
is inflicting upon its limited audience “ Leaves”
from the inane and mawkish diary of “An Aus-
tralian Girl,” now doing the “ grand tour.” In
each case we can guess the accomplished authoress’s
name. The “ Girl’s ” yarn reads like this :
“ Got outside the Heads at B.3o—tried to see the
screw going round, but nearly fell overboard ; ma
dragged me back by the winkers, and nurse
spanked me, and said i was a varmint, H
kissed his brother this morning, and I won a
Phillipine from H this afternoon Pa swore
when I pulled Mary’s hair i ate a lot at tea ; i like
pickled beetroot and cold pork, but it makes you
sick, also ship jam.” We shall all be very ill soon.
* * *
“ How is it,” asks a correspondent, “ thal
when once within the precincts of the N.S.W.
vice-regal residence, so many people in “ sassiety ’
become as if entered into a refrigerating chamber
They seem to congeal, and, even to quite intimate
friends, give an icy stare devoid of recognition, or
at best but a frigid bow. Again outside the gates
and they resume their ordinary week-day demean-
our. Is it that for some the air of the ‘ Court ’ is
too rarefied, or do they so seldom play at being
ladies and gentlemen, that they find themselves
awkward at the game ?
* * *
Bundaberg (Q.) was carefully combed
down, the other day, by His Excellency Sir
Arthur Palmer, Lieut.-Governor. In spite of Sir
Arthur’s known sentiments on the subject of
“10-vees,” which ho calls carmine rot, a few of
the townsfolk determined to overwhelm him with
i sight of their swallow-tails the morning after
he got there. Owing to lack of notice, &c., &c.,
there were only three or four of the quite too
much distinguished residents on hand who showed
up at 10 a.m., when Sir Arthur, fresh from his
morning tub, turned up glittering and gorgeous in
a cocked hat and gold uniform. The sergeant of
police and his subordinate wore white gloves, but
even that did not cast any joy. on the scene, and
what Sir Arthur said or thought was of a very
cursory description. Colonel French, who formed
one of the party, explained afterwards that His
Ex. wanted to see them “just as they were,” and
hat ho thought thoy had “somewhat busted
themselves over it.” Sir Arthur won t “ receive ”
again at Bundaberg.
* * *
All fashionable Melbourne went to the
dog, poultry, cat, and pigeon show, at the Exhibi-
tion last week. The most attractive feature was
Lady Clarke’s canary, imprisoned in a gorgeous
cage and priced £2OO. This dear little bird is
popularly credited with considerable powers of
speech. It proved, however, to he a most dis-
appointing dickey. Crowds hung around its cage
from early morn till chucking-out time, but the
bird spake never a word. Some of the cockatoos,
however, swore like the troops in Flanders.
* * *
A most elegant and successful social affair
was the musical party given by the professors of
Sydney University on the evening of 3rd Sept.
The large hall was beautifully decorated with
choice flowers of every description, and brilliantly-
lighted small drawing-rooms were arranged
in different parts of the floor. Some of the best
musical talent in Sydney entertained, in a delight-
ful manner, a very large and appreciative audi-
ence. About 9 p.m. the guests, who numbered
fully 250, began to arrive, and in a very short
time, the reception-room was crowded with charm-
ingly-dressed ladies and their cavaliers. A most
recherche supper was served at 11 o’clock, and
the company departed shortly after midnight,
having spent a thoroughly pleasant evening.
Amongst the guests were His Excellency and Lady
Carington and suite, Sir Alfred Stephen, Mrs. and
the Misses Badham, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Badham,
Mr. and the Mrs. Campbell, Mr. and the Misses
Darley, Sir W. Manning, Lady and the Misses
Manning, Mr. and Mrs. William Laidley, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Purves, the Hon. Lionel Baring, the Hon.
Mr. Wallop, the Primate and Mrs. Barry, the
officers of the men-of-war in port, and many
others well-known in fashionable circles.
* * *
At Tuapeka (N.Z.), a Chinaman seeks a
divorce from his wife, a gaunt white-robed
angel from Tipperary. The co-respondent is a
Celestial, and for some years he has lavished
cauliflowers op his fair enslaver, and kept the
household going in gratis vegetables. Chi Lee
endured his wife's unfaithfulness as long as he
could for the sake of the useful sundries, but at
last his loving heart received a wound that
even onions could not heal, and he is suing the
other Mongol for his last cent,
THE WHISPENRING
CALLERY
° f. 9 h utBW o »th ’ Potts Point - has issued in
tations for an At Home for Friday eve, the 10th iust.
mania A.p.C. to the Governor of Tas-
mama, is at present on a visit to Lord and Lady Oarington.
amostsuoee«f?^ S - tSep -f I 1 i ber ’ Mrs - Martin gave her ;m;iiU
HaU, Waverley 1 Juvenile farlcy dress ball in the Oddfellows
teHor^fQn^a! 8 " 6 ,’/" 15 ! 0 - who has been visiting the in
Sydney hist weet 11 ' 1 f ° r thS laSt three months > returned to
succ('ssf!! l | n ?nT C 'f l *'^ lnatcur Rlins trel Company gave a most
Randwick Asvlnm 'TT,? 0n Wednesday the Ist inst., at
nanuwieK Asylum, for the amusement of the children.
announced between Mr. Wuliam
eldest danih w D - °« ilv ie, Esq., and Miss Milne,
i,, !:' ? ht of Mr - Edward Milne, of Hurling Point.
dance atVewh? save “ Pleasant and largely-atti nded
good taste nfnk °“ 31st nit. The dresses were in
gooa taste, pmk and white being the prevailing colours.
Sentemher SS” t( ? naval athletic sports (on Monday,
Admiral Trvnr? t wf°° la i tl ? n <jroun( l. bave been issued by
> yon, and captains and officers of the squadron.
visitors q SrH- Sun ?^ r pi ?, ty in Sydney. The number of
Sundays of h fh-u m lon in Art for Au Sn st on the five
days 8251! that Ulontb were on the twenty-six week
has^been'm-miT^o^^n 16 «? ne ?f °1 the Goodenough Home
held on S lBed hy Ml ? s Pedle y anti Miss Woolley, to be
“ SSSJtoS!MS,“ UL 1 “ 1 ““ “•*»»»“
meat to' dub had a very delightful entertain
ult A fw„ ? Sch ,° ol of . Arts 011 Tuesday evening, Ist
sence o/mi ;° olned y • u , 1 ! 1 a farce were B°* through in pre-
sence of an audience which numbered fully 350.
On 2nd September Mrs. J. Hardie gave a
very successful dance.
. Mrs - Baass, of Trebarttea, Potts Point, h is
Sept lnvi^a^^ons or a dance on Friday, 10th
The ladies of Terrick East (Victoria) man-
aged a very successful dance on the 25th ult.
Dancing till daylight.
™° n n S t turday eveni ng. the 4th, Mrs. Barr, of
Woollahra, most successfully entertained a
dance r * ends a P^ a^n an d fancy dress
lassie, of Waverley, is to marry
Miss Agnes Dibbs, daughter of the gene al
manager of the Commercial Banking Com-
pany of Sydney.
The Petersham Private Socials mean to
wind up their season with a ball, announced
to take place in the local Town Hall on Fri-
day evening, 10th inst.
On Tuesday evening last the Sydney Socials
gave a rather sparsely-attended but enjoyable
dance at West’s rooms. Many elegant cos-
tumes were worn, black and white predomi-
nating.
Gundagai (N.S.W.) enthused ver a wedding
on the Ist Sept., the parties thereto being
Miss Lottie Robinson, of Kimo, and Mr. W.
L. King, eldest son of the Ven. Archdeacon
King. Showers of rain and rice greeted the
departure of the pair for Coolac, en route for
Manly, where the honeymoon is to be spent.
In the lawn tennis match at Yass (N.S.W.)
on Saturday last, between Yass and Goul-
burn, honours were divided, the Goulburn
ladies being too clever for the home team and
the Yass gentlemen too skilful for the visit-
ing team. The Goulburn contingent were
entertained during their stay at the local
Bank of N.S.W.
The second conversazione under the aus-
pices of the Art Society of N.S.W., took
place on Thursday, the Bth inst., at their
rooms in the Royal Arcade. The attendance
was large and the affair very successful. The
programme for the evening comprised sketch-
ing and singing. Mrs. M‘Donald sang
and *' Silva Opaca; ” while Miss
O Reilly, Mr. Donovan, and Mrs. Sayer sang
some beautiful selections. Signor Steffani
presided at the piano.
The dance given by Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
Davies at Needs’ rooms last Friday night was
m all respects a brilliant success. The supper
was sumptuous, the music perfect, and the
dresses worn more than usually elegant. Par-
ticularly noticeable were the following:—The
hostess, in a pale blue silk gracefully draped
with quantities of cream lace: Miss Young, a
dainty dress of soft white besprinkled with
lovely pink rosebuds; Mrs. Alfred Bennett, a
very handsome black silk costume with a pro-
fusion of beaded lace; Mrs. Wyatt, a remark-
able dress of heliotrope silk with panels of
cardinal and looped up with poppies and corn-
flowers. An effective dress was black satin
very much trimmed with white lace and
bunches of white roses. Also a cream satin
with panels and trimmings of pearl pendants
St. Francis’ Church Haymarket, Sydney
was on Aug. the 19th, the scene of a pretty
wedding, when Mr. John Seage was married
to Miss Cissy Guerin, daughter of Mr. P
Guerin, of Randwick. The church was
crowded. The bride wore an exceedingly
handsome dress of cream satin, the tablier
and frint of bodice being beautifully em-
broidered in pearls. A veil of fine Brussels
lace was arranged over a becoming wreath of
orange blossoms, fastened with a large pearl pin, which, with
a necklet of pearls and diamond brooch and bracelet,’were
gifts of the bridegroom. After the ceremony the party,
which numbered about 100, adjourned to the Glen the resi-
dence of the bride’s mother, and partook of a substantial
dejeuner served in a large marquee. In the evening dancing
was heartily indulged in for some hours.
Arrangements for St. Vincent’s Hospital ball progress
satisfactorily. The catering is to be done by Baumann. The
Naval Brigade band will provide the music. The decorations
are to be those used at the return ball to Mayor Young.
“ Pendragon” continues his letters in the Referee, but
has not yet got as far as Australia. In his latest he announces
that he has conceived a very violent affection for his travel-
ling companion, Mr. Alec. Myers, the Sydney merchant.
I,overs of art should go and see Signor Ferrarini’s fine
landscape paintings of Australian scenery on exhibition at
Mr. John Sands’, George-street. The artist is returning to
his native land, and is about to dispose of his valuable col-
lection.
. One Lichtenfield, of London, has invented a hair-stimulat-
ing electric battery to be worn under the wig by the bald
headed man. We know one fascinating N.S.W. legislator
who will return to Macquarie-street with the electric battery
beneath his grey belltopper.
The Sydney Private Assembly gave their last dance of the
season on 27th ult., in Needs rooms. The attendance was
very large and included many faces well-known in the local
social world, and many officers of the various ships of war in
port. Dancing—chiefly waltzing—was kept up with great
energy until the small hours.
We have not lately spoken of a good novel, as there has
not been one wdrth mentioning, but in “Cradle and Spade,”
by William Sime, in spite of the utterly absurd title, the
reader will find a good and striking work. The story is in
teresting, and there are many vivid scenes that live in the
memory for long after the book has been read.
The annual festival of the Worshipful Masters of Free-
masons lodges in the E.C. is to take the form of a grand
ball, in Sydney Exhibition building, on Tuesday, 28th Sep-
tember. H.E. and Lady Carington have promised to attend,
and invitations are to be issued to Mayor Young, Admiral
Tryon, and the officers of the various ships of war, and other
notable persons.
Lord, Carington and suite attended the performance of the
Federal Minstrels in Sydney Academy of Music on Tuesday
evening, the 31st. ult. His Excellency blushed consider-
ably at the rather awkward tribute paid to his popularity by
one of the performers, who, when next his lordship turns up
at the thow, really ought to have a special verse ready for
the occasion. It is possible to over-flatter even a Governor
• Ml *rray, barrister, son of the late Sir Terence
of that ilk, returns to Australia per Chimborazo, having as a
scholar carried all before him at Oxford University. Not that
we now think much of Oxford, which has just made Baronet
Clarke, of Victoria, a Doctor of Laws. However, Mr. Murray
isnotenly a rcholar and a prize-winner but an ex-holder of
the Queensberry Boxing Championship, besides being an
eminent footballer. Another athletic barrister who has just


returned to settle in Sydney is Mr. Wade, an old King’s
School (Parramatta) boy.
An English paper says that “ when Lady Carington saw the
very scanty accommodation of Government House, Sydney,
she said, ‘ Yes, the ball-room is small, but then we must
simply have more balls in it.’ This happy remark was
quickly wired throughout the cjl ly and won more hearts
than any speech the charming lady could have made.” The
gifted writer goes on to say that when Lord and Lady
Carington paid their first visit to the theatre an American
“ ticket-scalper ” came along and bought up the whole dress-
circle. This is more than enough—our own John Bennett—
an American “ticket-scalper!”
Mayor Young, assisted by Mr. Laidley Mort and Mr. J. P.
Franki, opened the Balmain bazaar on Ist inst. in the pre-
sence of a large crowd. His Worship made the usual speech
—happiest day of his life, proud moment, deep gratitude,
three cheers for the Queen. Music was supplied by the Bal-
main Coldstream Band, and we have cause to be grateful
that the bazaar is not for the purpose of raising funds to
Eire a gold watch for the curate, or a feather bed for the
parson,'but is in aid of the local Cottage Hospital. The
ladies, on whom most if not all the labour has fallen, are
Mrs. Dean, ofWaterview House, and the Misses Fergusson,
Gray, Kirkpatrick, Sanders, Devine, Smyth, Schofield, Jones,
and Irving. We wish them success.
The best modern Shylock on record appears to be a 'Frisco
dentist who has just collected a long outstanding account.
A few months ago this toothsmith filled a lady's vacant
molar with gold, and then sent in his bill. However it re-
mained unpaid, and the jaw-wrencher unsuccessfully tried
all sorts of means to get the money. At last he gave up all
hope of payment and devoted himself to Vengeance. He in-
duced the unsuspecting female to visit him again under pre-
tence of finishing the ob, and strapped her down in his chair
HE WORE THIRTEENS.
THE ATHLETIC DE BROWNE: “WHAT VEWY SHORT STEPS YOU
TAKE; WEALLY NOT MORE THAN HALF THE LENGTH OF
MY FOOT EACH TIME.”
THE SARCASTIC MISS DE JONES: “HALF THE LENGTH OF YOUR
FOOT! WHY, I CALL THAT QUITE A LONG STRIDE."
When buying Schnapps, be sure you obtain the genuine
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Scia-
tica and other analogous affections should try
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne, a medicine that
has, since its introduction in 1844, been tried on a
very large scale both by the Medical Profession and
the Public in every part of the habitable Globe,
with unvaried success. Since its introduction
into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and
is now regarded as the most efficient and valuable
medicine that has ever been introduced into the
Colony. The Profession prescribe it; Missionaries
prefer and use Freeman’s Chlorodyne, and people
leaving Sydney for the interior invariably take a
sufficient supply to last them a twelvemonth.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark an Elephant.—Obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps is sold by every respectable publican.
Accept no other.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
with her mouth open. Then he inserted his pincers in the
hollow void, and with one terrific pull dragged out the pre-
cious mineral which he had put in on tick a few weeks before.
He damaged the rest of the tooth in the process, and almost
shivered the jaw, but he wisely considered that to be the cus-
tomer’s look-out. Then the longmredit female departed
wailing and her relatives are looking round for the dentist
with a view of pounding him, but he has removed for change
of air, and the victim has made up her mind to have her
tooth stuffed again on strictly cash principles.
There are already some folks busy trying
to prove that young Albert Victor is not such a
fool as he looks—or rather looks more of a fool
than he is. One of his apologists says that his
public speeches are of a very high order and
show him possessed of great ability. It is said
that since the appointment of the new Right
Honorable A. V.’s speeches have become more
Manly in their tone and possibly more flowery—
and yet Radicals can be found to say that a P.C.-
ship is little better than an unornamental
nonentity.
Awful caution ! In England, the other
day, a pretty and accomplished girl got a £5OO
breach of promise verdict from her faithless lover,
who subsequently interviewed her, explained that
the voice of love had never died within him, that
the quarrel was a mistake and the
lawsuit a blunder, and concluded by
offering to wed her immediately.
She consented, and they were married,
the verdict being thus knocked out
of legal existence. Immediately after
breakfast the bridegroom “skipped,”
and the only sign of his being alive
was a few days afterwards conveyed
to his grass-widowed bride by means
of an advertisement, warning
“tradesmen and others” that the
dear departed would not be answer-
able for any debts his wife might
contract.
* * *
F Bravo, Charters Towers, the
only noted goldfield that has had to
develope itself ! The Day Dawn and
Wyndham gold mine for which
astute Victorians have unsuccessfully
made many tempting offers, has, it
is cabled, been sold for £460,000 to
a London syndicate, who, we may
state, bought without inspection on
the recommendation of those solid
and prosperous Northern mining men,
Mills, Plant, and Tom Buckland. In
all human probability this affair will
prove a lasting and magnificent ad-
vertisement for North Queensland in
London. So far, the Day Dawn
and Wyndham has yielded fort-
nightly dividends with disgusting re-
gularity. Mr. Mills has been draw-
ing £lBOO every two weeks, but one
tires of everything. But won’t
Londoners be
hunting for other
Day Dawns soon ?
It behoves the
men who have
hitherto j ealously
watched the good
name of the
Towers’ field not
to get lazy
through accumu-
lated wealth.
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before 'meals ds a wonderful
appetizer. Try it.
Miss Blanche : “ Wouldn’t you say, Mr. Bow-
string, that Mr. Highnote has a falsetto voice?”
Mr. Bowstring: “ Well, I don’t know, Miss
Blanche, as I should say quite that; but I know
that he has a false set o’ teeth, and does not wear
one of those beautiful and stylish £3 3s. suits, to
measure, cut by one of the eight high-class cutters
employed by Summerfield and Company, the great
juvenile out fitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps and water make the best and most
agreeable drink in hot water. »
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the
world. Invaluable for the liver and kidneys.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those who never used the
genuine article are imposed upon.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Bailey says there is no chance of flogging being
abolished in N.S.W. while the colonial Parliament continues
to be composed of persons who indulge in fisticuffs under the
Speaker’s very nose A Sydney solicitor advertises that
certain “obstropolous creditors” will not accept the dividend
offered by an insolvent. Fine word “ obstropolous.”.... A
Geraldton (W.A.) paper writes: —“We have received a rather
strange telegram from the honorable and gallant member for
Murray and Williams. He wires to us:—‘Think not that I
come to make peace in Perth. I came not to send peace but
a sword.'” —At Clunes, J. Campbell sold a cow to Mrs.
Hosie for £5, and gave her an unstamped receipt. The cow
died shortly after, and the purchaser asked Campbell to re-
turn half the money. He refused, and she got him fined
£2 17s. 6d. for defrauding the revenue. Sweet is revenge, &c.
Sixteen more solicitors—principally with Scotch and
Hebrew names—were admitted to practice in Sydney last
week A N.Z. father-in-law, an old man of 60, has been
sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment for giving his son-in-
law’s horses phosphorised oats, which caused them to. kick
the bucket. His daughter had married against his will, and
he had taken this singular method of revenging the injury
on the man of her choice The Revd. Charles Fraser, who
was a trifle giddy at Christchurch, N.Z., a few years ago, de-
parted for the shining shore recently, aged 63 A “ heathen
Chinee ” storekeeper at Auckland, N.Z., has offered to give
,50 loaves of bread daily to the starving poor of the city, pro-
vided a few Christians follow his example. As only one re-
sponse has been made it is feared that the Christian race is
nearly extinct in -that,city It is now believed in Auckland
that, after all, the Great Barrier murderers did start for
America in their fast-sailing pirated cutter, Sovereign of the
Seas Three weeks ago, in the middle of August, it was
stiflingly hot in Rockhampton and there were mosquitoes
galore. What a place for Ned Trickett to be in ! People
uj> North are discussing the probability-of theA.S.N. Co.
selling out to the Q.S.N. Co A man named Donald
Forest has been purloining spurious gold medals from the
Melbourne Museum. The Government is considering the
advisability of putting half-a-dozen policemen to guard the
gaudy “nuggets” which lie around in show-cases. A drown-
ing man clutches at a straw, and a hungry man grabs at any-
thing that glitters. There are plenty of hungry men in Vic-
toria just now Queensland has 318,000 inhabitants who
last year drank 2,748,320 gallons liquor James M'Quig,
when charged at Sydney Water Police Court with having
been drunk, slowly shut one eye and said solemnly, “ And a
werry proper charge, too.” Fined 10s In 90 days the new
Broken-hill (N.S,W.) Co.’s silver-smelters produced £67,000
worth of bullion at a cost of £17,000.
* * *
That, sawney youth, “Wales’” eldest son, is to
be made Duke of Kent. This will cost the taxpayers of his
bleeding country £lO,OOO in fees According to the
World, Queen Victoria has practically turned Presbyterian.
Mrs. Crawford, Dillce’s friend, is 22 years old, but barely
looks 18, and strikes people as being One who would be the
very last person, &c. She appears to be a happy, rosy
English girl, with a fresh complexion, brilliant eyes, and
smiling demeanour. In court she was dressed in the height
of fashion, chatted gaily with her sister, and her lawyer, and
“ looked the picture of unembarrassed ladyhood.” There
was not a single Irishman among the leaders of the Chicago
riots At an hotel with a bad table. “Is not this a mag-
nificent hotel ?” “Yes, but I would like to see less gilding
and more carving.” When next a sponger tries to borrow
your money lend him a bad note. He will never forgive
you. ..
THEY WERE ONE.
“ On a hammock papa chanced to blunder,
Where ’twas swinging in a leafy niche ;
And the old man paused awhile to wonder
Which was which.”
Proudly exclaimed an Englishman in the Transvaal: “I
belong to the nation on whose dominions the sun never sets.”
“Kavite troo,” replied a Boer, “Got Almidy is afraid to
drust you in der.dark—now, don’t it?” Labouchere, of
Truth, lost a heavy sum in bets by the defeat of Glad-
stone’s Home Rule Bill. Dabby has the satisfaction of
knowing that he dropped his money in a good cause A
London paper says that the Queen regrets having opened the
magnificent Holloway College, fearing that the whole scheme
was nothing but a bold advertisement for the innocuous
pills and ointment. This is too much. Does the Queen
regret that she “graciously accepted ” a key on the occasion
of the ceremony ? It was of solid gold, set with 300
diamonds.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
£3T Country Orders receive prompt attention. TE&
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse.
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
Air Utc Exceedingly Low Price of ,&5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
First-class Accommodation for Commercials.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
THE MERCANTILE BAM OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
I):r r ecto its
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.G.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarkefc, Pyrmont, Kedfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England. |
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
61 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
ap plication.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 1 in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express''
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
Lowest Prices.
mmhuim.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.


THE UNINVITED ONE.—DRAGGING HIM IN.
Whilst sitting there tha t evening he could not but remember the feeling of admiration to
which the American nation was moved by the assistance rendered by this colony to the mother
country during her recent troubles in the East. That action, of which their gifted chairman was the
originator, had done more, not only in teaching the world the love Australia bore to the old country
but also in binding closer together that country and the great American Republic. "—Colonial
Secretary Dibbs’ speech at the banquet to Mary Anderson's Step- Uncle.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
POPULAR CONSULTATIONS.
CAULFIELD CUP of 1886.
1500 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse 200
Third Horse 100
Starters, £lOO ; Non-Starters, £lOO ; to be divided
amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1886.
2000 Sbbscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse ... 300
Third Horse 200
Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tickets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers, 135 King-street
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS.
Extract from Sydney Sunday News
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of ‘Democrat’s’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, but in ‘ Democrat’s ’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of ‘ Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion.”
Several other newspapers have borne similar
testimony to the genuineness of “Democrat’s’’
consultations.
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All “Democrat’s” consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
and respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address —“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Cauldfield, 135 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(010,000. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
dW SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows :—The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2000; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards, —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney,
T
HEATRE ROYAL,
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee... ... ... ... Mr. Sam. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. G. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager H. H. Vincent.
Assistant Stage Manager ... W. Seagrave.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
DRAMATIC SEASON
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
George Darrells’s new Drama of Irish life
THE SOGGARTH
THE SOGGARTH.
Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper Circle, Is.
Box Plan open at Theatre.
MONTY BROWNE,
General Business Manager.
IN'
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees: Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Directors : Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, SEPTEMBER 9,
For Two Nights Only,
The most famous of all Criterion comedies, the
PINK DOMINOES.
Acted by Mr. Harry St. Maur and the
Royal Comedy Company.
Saturday September 11, the Royal Comedy
Season will be continued at the Gaiety Theatre,
Bronson Howard’s Comedy, TRUTH, with a great
cast of characters.
Assistant Stage Manager—Mr. J. A. Patterson.
General Business Manager—Monty Browne.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereagh-Street.
Lessee ... ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
This and every Evening until further notice,
SINS OF THE CITY.
NEXT FRIDAY EVENING,
Shakespeare’s Grand Fashionable Night,
OTHELLO.
Othello (for the first time in Sydney) Mr. Dampier
Desdemona ... ... ... ■ ... Miss Dampier
Admission: Dress circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ; Pit, Is.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon.
Sub-Lessee ... Mr. John F. Sheridan.
' FARLEY’S
ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
September 9,
Yon Suppfe’s charming Opera in 3 acts,
“ FATINITZA,”
“ FATINITZA,”
“FATINITZA.’
Miss Adeline Brandon as Fatinitza.
Miss Florence Seymour as Princess Lydia.
Mr. FARLEY as COUNT KAUCHUKOFF.
Mr. W. Walshe as the War Correspondent.
Mr. A. Farley as Stiepan.
Mr. C. Robson as The Pasha.
The entire opera staged and produced under the
immediate supervision of Mr. Farley.
POWERFUL AND EFFICIENT ORCHESTRA.
Selected Chorus.
Conductor Mons. Leon. Caron.
Leader ... ... ... Mons. De Willimoff.
Piano kindly supplied by BEALE and CO.
Private Boxes to hold six, £2 2s,
Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Pit, Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
Business Manager Frank Stuart.
AIETY THEATRE— Every Sunday Night.
A GRAND CONCERT,
Under the Direction of KNIGHT ASTON.
Admission, 2s. and Is. H. J. Samuell, Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
first appearance
of
Mr. EDWARD LAWLER,
Vocal Artist,
and
Messrs. CRAYDON and LESLIE,
The Terpsichorean Champions.
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls,
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30. ‘
OF MUSIC
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks
General Business Manager ... Mr. A. L. Cunard.
758 NIGHTS 758
And still the leading attraction of the city.
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
in conjunction with the
RAYNOR BROTHERS,
in their laughable Dualogue, MIRTH and MUSIC
Thought reading.
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUTTERED THOUGHTS.
Western tour.—Return Visit.
Forbes, Saturday, 11th September.
Molong, Mudgee, Rylstone, &c., to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
Lynch family bellringers.
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
In consequence of the serious illness of one of
the principal members of the Family, the re-
appearance of the Company is unavoidably
postponed for a few days.
JAMES SMITH 1 .
H. E. BARNES J Agcnfcs -
LLO W A Y
WJ. HO
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“ Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It ”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11
“ A RING OF IRON.”
THEATRE ROYAL,
Rockhampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
FOLEY'S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
The world-renowned faust family
and HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
First Australian Tom-. Great Success Every-
where.
Milton—Thursday and Friday, Sept. 9 and 10
Bateman’s Bay—Saturday, September 11
Moruya—Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 13 and 14
Bodalla, Cobargo, Bega, to follow.
Prices of Admission —45., 35., 2s.
R
M
R
ley
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world’
Rents and debts collected. Prom R. M. R.'s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely-
fumished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahoc
and Leitch s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons i also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms —Apply,
THE jSECRETARY, School of Arts.
DR. GEORGE “on“
31 CARLTON TERRACE,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
WILL see patients September 11 at Goulburn •
16th, see Patients at Queanbeyan ; 22nd’
see patients at Broughton Creek; 26th, see patients
at Dubbo ; 30th, see patients at Bourke ; 31st re-
turn to Sydney.
LEE,
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
m
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON &. CO.
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AM* INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
Anything you require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. I‘INNES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 7, 1886.
ENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.


Ten little niggers standing in a row,
When the man focussed ’em, light cried a go ;
The two that were left wouldn’t give a chance,
So he used his “ phdntom ” shutter, and took ’em “ on the dance. ’
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Eb.'S to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht Held. A large assortment of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A ehoice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
C02 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application.
npIIOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE TRIED
J AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only jy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
ITOREIIOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing eoughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets
Branch Houses :—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills ; and Suva, Fiji
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tie-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
i s agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
F loulty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
I
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to he.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
I’h D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now be also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
|JOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of the LIVER
and STOMACH, they may he used with perfect confidence
by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is a guarantee
of their efficacy. Thousands of testimonials, from princes to
peasants, attest their marvellous virtues.
M tnuf rctured only at 78 New Oxford st., London.
Purchasers should look to the label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
(nd ,„, 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
1
>
k
X
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tonnervettcr,
you preak my glass, too. Yell, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
Capital .... 1625,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors:
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
52T Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &c., of all
descriptions covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
HENRY LANCASTER,
s L n
IPOH
WATtTR CART.
•ZH7
not affected
BY WEATHER
m
UE TROUGH^
CANNOT BE BROKEN
CO/?
SI
Ittlllllillllllllll
HOT WATER
in i , n ntuiiiiifi
CYLINDER
KIMS
[PAN
C TPOUCH
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
3 funnels, ventilators,
&C., &C. ''..A
F Estimates,cheerfully given. ]
mim REDUCEDJPRICE LISTS'fURNISHEDJIN APPLICATION, jWI V, - jrt—- •
mil Works: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, Railway.* Station. 11IM
e,
']W
- & >
Shoe Bazaar
252 a Georjfe S t
Icile Petite ancL ffarcourL SyD.NJ&Y
ANUFACTURERS
GOLRE/vSVRl/R
AMD
Treacle
reel/vers
head Office & Factory. Newtown
AjA/OAS IS 3D6/OJ3 HJNV&g
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridse street, Sydney.
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy,‘"in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
Barry’s Tricopherous.
Guaranted to make the
hair grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER,
The original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Government. Put up in three
sizes.
Sole Wholesale agents:
S. HOFFNUNG- and CO.,
A MJNDEKFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c ha
V
ikr,
<</
O'
CO
PATENT
LLS
PI
ft?
&
«7
$
©
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind, and pam
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chilis, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
theskin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &o. The first
dose will give relief in
twenly minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
dene it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be •
WORT-I A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and'bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to l;e found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the systesu. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
itrengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
if health the whole physical energy of the human
Tame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
mbracing all classes of society; and one of the
jest guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Seecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
nedieine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
md Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
my of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when rej-
ected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
vith any of the above complaints give Beegham’s
lougfi Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
emoved.
Caption. —The public are requested to notice thrt
he words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
lovernment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
ff not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
he proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d.
ach. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
Dr. BELL'S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CURES where all other .MEDICINES FAIL, as It
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CUBE AND A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder,
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains in the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urine.
HEED THE ‘WARNING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following. —
KIDNEY
DISEASE
/ Pain in Small of Back, Pain in
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, 4ic. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in so
< many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
,been used without good effect.
DYSPEPSIA
(Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach,Bad Taste
in the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation. Dr,
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Noth. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certiiicate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Bellas Bitters
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHOl&CO..Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.


MASON BROTHERS,
r
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN T WALKER and SONS’
, OkLHighland Whisky.
J and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
sai passes all others for its lasting and natural
f jigrance.
Three Gold Medals -
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQJJET
TUEVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
and other well known Perfumes are nil-
equalled for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOIIETTE DE IGNORES.
Unsurpasscd for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An*entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of all Healers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
Lyre.”
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
tfP
m
H< 1
fOP
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
FERMENI
BQT 5
AGENT
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
'GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
• Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must he cleared
"out. Discount 25 per cent, reduction on the old
prices. Music. —Thirty shillings worth of music at
the old prices can now he had for One Pound.
This grand stock comprises, amongst other items.
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest and most
popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Presentation
Volumes, in prose and verse ;Books, suitable for prizes
for boys and girls ; Nautical Works, Books on Engineer-
ing and Surveying, Dictionaries, &c ; and a choice library
of Religious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Embroideries
Yases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays, and Tea Trays.
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather, and Calf,
profusely illustrated, all sizes, at wonderfully low prices.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books ; Press
Copying Books in every style and binding, or made to
order.
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in Sydney.
Samples and prices may be obtained on application.
HANDBAGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames, of every
kind and description.
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS —Solid Sketch Blocks, Drawing
Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or postage
stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
have seen her again in my dreams,
in my dreams have I pressed
her —
Pressed her once more to my breast
as of old;
Felt the quick beat of her heart
against mine as I kissed and
caressed her —
Brushed from her brow the stray
tresses of gold.
would have said ’twas her spirit
that came but to cheer me ;
Robed was my love as an angel in
white —
But oh ! ’twas herself, her dear self,
| that I held and drew near
me ;
Warm were her lips with a loving
delight.
Did I not feel her sweet breath on
my cheek, as of passion I told
her?
Seemed not her raptures as real as
mine own ?
Love is of earth, and the kiss of a
spirit were saint lier, oolder ;
Passion, I deem, is of angels un-
known.
But in the day, when I wake, she is
then the calm spirit that
hovers,
Hovers, invisible, near me, yet
echoes my sighs;
Only at night, in my dreams, can wo
meet again ever as lovers,
Meet as of old, ere Death claimed
his prize.
But when I sleep on for aye, for aye—when no
1 more I awaken,
When comes lio daybreak to banish the night,
Never again from my arms, from these arms, shall
my darling he taken —
Sleep will bring dreams, and dreams bring delight.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated “ Your Rogue loves a shin-
ing mark.” Be sure and obtain Wolfe’s.
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hoekings, 143 Pitt-street.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt alone like the one Alex-
ander without a rival.
Weakness and sickness changed to health and strength with
Hop Bitters always if made by those American Co. See
Marie Brizard 1 Who is Marie Brizard ?
A HOMELY GIRL
Was met by us a few weeks ago. Her complexion was as
rough as the skin of a rhinoceros and as mottled as sausage
meat, her eyes dull and heavy, and her lips every colour but
red. Recently we saw the same young lady, but how different i
Her complexion is as clear and as delicate as porcelain, her
lips twin cherries, her eyes bright as dew drops. Yet all the
difference lies in a rectified condition of the blood, to accom-
plish wnich she used Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—No family should be without it. It
is the purest and best stimulant obtainable.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. < I V\!\<.ll VH,
Margab.et-str.eet, Wyn ward-square, Sydney
The celebrated Wolfe's Schnapps is a shield and safe-
guard against sudden changes of temperature.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
CALLED BACK.
The busy throng in Pitt-street is called back to
gaze with wonder at the beautiful display of Spring
goods in the windows of Summerfleld and Company.
The well-known excellence of our boys’ clothing,
the pretty designs and moderate prices need no
comment. For big boys and youths, we are show-
ing a very superior line of long trousers suits at
18s. 6d. and 21s. Summerfleld and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe’s Schnapps.
be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for many years
a standard professional remedy.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Know ye all men that Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival as
a stimulant.
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached hy ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory • - - Waverley.
m- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Ofiices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
UMBRELLAS
PfE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
they may be favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—l6o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various sizes, in all
the well-known brands; Curry Powder, in
tins and bottles; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry and Mulligatawney Pastes, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to be addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER-STREET.
Everybody \
SHOULD USE/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
TLOITE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 George-street, Sydney.
Grood News for the Music-Mug Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
at LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
1/4. 5/0. I/O 0/0 12/0 *l/0, 21/. 25/. »»,
45/, lo £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
3
AOCORDEONS
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/—.
[O/4.1552»/.,25/- 30/- t«£2M.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, how
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS at J " - •«;; -
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key ... ... £5 5 0
v, The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 9 10 0
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10 0
Specialty :
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker
...50/-
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
The
From 5/6 each to £lO.
Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
653" Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and os., sold at 9d. per copy.
£5
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager.


£
■
W IL PALING & CO.
LIMMITED!
356
HAVE THE
Largest and Best Selected
STOCK OF
PIANOS, ORGANS,
AND
MUSIC.
Best Makers, Lowest Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT STSTEM
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Appliction.
W.H. PALING & CO.
356 George-st., Sydney.
p
WHOLESALE MANUFACTURING
CONFECTIONER
420 Georges?,
SYDNEY
JANES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near Erskine St
*W4st)***s Ca&4* <mv
TO OROTR ON SHORTEST NOTICE.
Co'jmthy * Snirrmc Oroeks flioiirmArtfaeSj
[manufacturing hatters,
GEORGE STREET
SYONEY
TTBRSUrJIU.
NEWEST SHAPES.
rue
land
'iCUREfQR
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUCHS
*a*n*aas!jEH5iEnE
_ PREPARED ON LY BY ,
Ihomas Ingham,
T±e.- O C K H A Wl PTO N
it ! Radi m«*k t
T>OAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This
VT f Stout, selected with great care from _the
be.it of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Art our Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
Jv.-,Hr,VIN & HARSTON, Sole_Agents.
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
C 3 p n r^aS>lrs riars - Repairs, &c.
l i ,?NTHAL, Pipemaker.
illustrated’r ?'i reCt ’ EaSt ’ M °" ,o,,r,lC -
ated Catalogues on application*
MALTINE,
malted barley, wheat and oats.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 Vr> bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular anil fat producing
elemeuts.—Liebeg.” * 6
Maltine will increase both the weight and f 5 ,h in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommeuded for del-ic ue ferr iss, weak and debilitated
Children and infants, and for mot .ers whilst nursing
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases Nervous
Debility, Ac., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
iVAaitine with Pepsme and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
tor Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
uigestiom I here are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation
IVl.aitme with Hvpophosphites IS most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion,.Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis Cnnßhs
Colds, and difficult Expectoration. roncmtls ’ Loughs,
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering God Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Ouinine and Strvrh-
nine a most powerful nutritive tonic f? r ’ General DeShty.&c 7
Maltine With Phpsphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
bramS and th ° Se of se 3 eutar >’ habits, suffering from General
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest val 16 in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, cfcc. *
SOLD by ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
HAD HIM THERE.
THE: “MAY I NOT HAVE THE PLEASURE OF DANCING THIS GALOP WITH YOU!"
SHE: “NO, THANKS, I DON’T GALOP.
SHE: “BUT YOU WALTZ-WALTZ AND GALOP ARE ALL THE SAME, YOU KNOW.”
SHE: “YE-E-S, I KNOW, THEY ARE—TO YOU.”
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND lilILK)
Containing 95 per Gent. ox nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
* a , “ es^‘f orrne /> .fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
. _andtaste to the most delicate persons.
13 * n cas ® s Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
Rl™Tvf eVe ! 8 ’ Pneum °nia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Spep T Sl ?’ Diarrhoea « Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
bea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
A , art ni 01 W y resulting from any cause.
M a Xr ble “.voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration. J
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beefi Wheat and Milk-
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.’
A te ''Tn«k^ o w U i-ffi e< l Ual t 9 a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers
possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
one ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints oi beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef
co °si pSs nutritive m *“ er than Liebig ' B Eitrac * ° f Eeef '
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
fEIZB ITEDAI&'
Sola If SSBE BEJLEBS, GBOCESS ml OE'JCGISTS.
caps
5' SOTI
*l. a*
HAUTHAWAY'S
OLD IELUBLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ anil
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
boston, 18<3S. Is COHCDdcd to Os
IIm'THE STANDARD.”
C. L. HAUTH AWAY & SONS.
£3l & 233 Congress Street, Cos ton.
MASS., 0.0. A
131
Gf
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN
LEGIBILITY, RAPTDITY, EASE, CONVENIENCE
ECONOMY.
THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves abour,
stationery, and tune, writing much faster than expert pen-
men, and condensing matter to less than one-half the space
occupied by pen writing. Beautiful-copies may be taken in
the usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants, bankers
solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors, reporters, and ali
TOluaWe tfme 688 Sh ° Ula 11Se ' the type ' Writer and savo milch
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Rent-street.
BOCKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
2P AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
JjUUU Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMQCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post-free.
Country Orders promptly Attended to.
•AENCIAS f ‘XS HHOA SSI
‘SaaONOHNORI
saaTaavs onv ‘shetkkivs aavsaTOHM
"00 % XcIIIHMOYTd
lAI I H
' 11:' ‘aJOXuorauoJi .sasippug
jo spuis[ jpe ’puu ‘sandg ‘soippug B.uonioijaef)
puu .eoipug ‘sboujujj Iggng jo juauijjossis og.req
! s9X[oui pun of ‘eg.tog pun spapo aupoo ’
‘sjoddijo asiOH ‘soippug ‘SDfiH gSHO H
Y
as
V
X - /
mithsva vv vm
IF
&
o


BRIEF MENTION.
A.S.N. 1.0. U. R.O.W.
Abigail is evidently afraid that Premier
Jennings has invited the British Association to
Australia. They can spell.
Is there now a spot on earth where the
weary man may rest? Last week a “drunk”
was assaulted by a fellow-prisoner in the Sydney
lock-up.
An enterprising fruit-seller has imported a
donkey into Sydney. The donkey draws an Orange-
cart, and in this respect differs very little from
some members of Parliament.
MR. ABBOTT' s telegram to Free-trade meeting three months ago : “Your cause has my heartiest sympathies.”
MR. ABBOTT 's telegram to Protectionist meeting a fortnight ago: " Would gladly preside, only urgent professional
business takes me to Gunned ah."
The Sphinx of N.S.W. Politics.— Chorus: “Did You Speak?”
G. H. REID (loq): “IS IT TO B E ‘FREE-TRADE?’”
THE O’SULLIVAN (loq.): “DID I HEAR YOU SAY ‘PROTECTION?’”
MONTMORENCI SEALING WAX: “DO YOU REALLY MEAN ‘BLACK WEDNESDAY?”’
P.M. : “Is there anyone present to state
the case for this man?” Mike: “Yes, your
warship. Me liar, Mr. Jones will tell you the
whole truth about the matter.”
The Medical Press says that “ milk
charged with carbonic gas will be the popular
drink of the future.” Rum charged with milk
is the popular drink of the present.
In Taylor v. Young the jury were equally
divided: “Six of one and half-a-dozen of the
other,” was the verdict. Arcades ambo, id est,
aldermen both, is the verdict of the public.
The Queensland Government having a
large deficit to contend with are going in for
economy. The pannikins are being removed from
the public fountains and jam-tins put in their
place.
Why should the N.S.W. Art Society’s
annual Government grant be increased from £250
to £5OO ? Why, we ask, should the colony spend
nearly as much on Art as it does on Hangmen ?
We believe that the housemaid writes the
Answers to Correspondents for the Town and
Country Journal. We base our assumption on
the fact that she states that “ plumber ” is derived
from “ plumbago.”
Fourteen fathers in a Scotch town have
agreed that they will not let their daughters take
music-lessons until they have learnt to cook. A
similar practice pursued in Sydney would have
turned our hash-house into a little Heaven.
The most “indefatigable” civil servant
this side of the line is a well-connected metropoli-
tan official who drinks 11 whiskies before break-
fast and has to refer to the directory whenever he
wishes to discover the whereabouts of his office.
The Auckland (N.Z.) murder and suicide
rate has been terrible lately. Yet the public-
houses shut promptly at 10 p.m., and the licensing
bench consists chiefly of Good Templars. We
don’t like a country where all the murderers are
sober.
A Sydney Anglican parson asserts that the
Chinese “ learn all their vices from Australian
larrikins.” Oh, indeed ! However, this is only an
admission that the Chinaman is naturally vicious :
he consorts with the larrikins instead of with the
clergy.
‘ ‘ The highly poetic name of the romantic
Jenolan caves suggestive as it is of th% early in-
habitants of this vast continent,” wrote a Sydney
daily paper one day last week. Now the name
“ Jenolan ” is that of one J. E. Nolan, who once
“ ran ” a pig-farm hard by.
Samuels (an Australian aboriginal) won
the big Botany handicap foot-race, the other day,
Lazarus second. This darkey bears a strangely
Hebraic name. With the keen perception of his
race, he has no doubt observed that the Jews
generally get ahead of the Christians.
It is stated that one municipality in N. S. W.
gets rid of its sewage by running it into a disused
gold-mine. What a howling lark there will be
after some energetic speculator goes home to Eng-
land and floats that mine into a limited liability
concern with a capital of £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 shares
of £1 each!
The kilts of the new Queensland Scottish
regiment do not promise to be a great success.
They are all one size, so that short men are com-
pelled to hold them up when they cross the street,
and long men are reduced to helping them out by
adding a bathing-costume to the regulation outfit.
A Brisbane weekly paper gives this answer
to correspondents:—“‘Beta”: Thank you for
your congratulations. We agree with you that a
paper on our lines was wanted. Stupidity and
dullness have a noble show here.” If such is
really the case the venture should secure a mag-
nificent reward.
At the recent London Temperance Con-
gress Canon Farrar said the Burmese had a
popular drink so strong that it would dissolve a
Martini-Henry bullet within 30 minutes. When
this item reaches Northern Queensland there’ll be
such a rush for Burmah that the Separation trou-
ble will be ended in one act.
A vote of confidence has been passed in
Lawyer Coonan by his Forbes constituents, who
evidently believe that short weights and over-
charges are smart and laudable transactions. Let
us see—who was the gentleman in whom the Jews
passed a vote of confidence when the ' Roman
Governor was chairman?
The new 20-horse-power South Australian
curse: —“May he break stones with Crooks and
Walker; may he join the Y.M.C.A. and the
Vigilance Committee and get thumped some dark
night, and when at last he sinks into the dark,
damp grave and frizzles on the frying-pan re-
served for the aforementioned gangs, may his
degradation be crowned and bis disgraceful
memory perpetuated by two columns of obituary
corpse-gush in the Christian Colonist. Amen.”
Jobson, an officer in a certain Victorian
Government department, was lately appointed to
“stay in” during lunch-hour and watch over
books some of which had been mutilated. Imme-
diately upon the issue of the order, enter Official
Brown: “Hullo, Jobson, so they have made you
custos rotulorumi” Reply of the said custos:
“ You’re a liar, and if you were outside you
wouldn’t say a thing like that to me. By , I
didn’t go to the Soudan to be insulted like that ! ”
And so on.


ISAUCYL
,, >j4r exquisite
J j (ai'.“!' xc Ui'u-3
Br THE PROPR/E TOR,
TOOTH,PASTE
(JflfUtyLLED fbq fTSfifi/71 SEPT/C
/uJo CLEAf/si//G PROPERTIES.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
* 134 William ST SYDNEY
DOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.”
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3O H
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
effectually destroys,
ALL NOXIOUS INSECT^
E.ETLES.
COCKROACHES AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OROTHErJ
ANIMALS 1
SOLD
|Hntins
PbyAUCHEMISTs!
AND STOREKEEPERS
wholes/me
WANTED JN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
JUDSON'S
Vegetable Spirit Improved ,
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is., 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold by Chemists , Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, sc., sc.
BUDGEREE !!
trade
fmliiSi
£:%' &JSST
MARK.
DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever-destroyer
, ban , r° household should he without it, as it instantly kills all bad smells arising from
v, , auis > &c. Sold by all chemists.
JAS. G. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
ORGANS
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
THjB
SMITH
BRUCE & MASSEY,
PIA.ISTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
SHAM’S PILLS,
„ SE BEEAT liver remedy.
J
h 6 Partic] 11 " 1 dandelion, and free from the
t?P ■ o °Pul-n. e °'" mercury or mineral substance,
, s W)]o medici ne of the nineteenth cen-
v' lr C(i t e „ ’ most effective ; they can be
e Parat;5 lmen<ie d> being a carefully pre-
*>>• and the result of practical ex-'
lih^V 6 -f 0 f tW r. or ercome the worst form of
to p JXV ® r ’ Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I'cli^.j' 0 '" 11 ' they have not afforded
434
FEORge
STREET.
MARSHALL'S!
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostrtitioif, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects, it at once. removes all craOng,. for
Alcohol, By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIp NERVINE nour-
ishes nnd gives vigor to the whole .system. Price in. fid.
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney,
N.S.W.; London, Eng. 1
.TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
T
1
Al '" J ‘Va"s 0« 1 - Y
OBTAINED *
FIRST CLASS AWARDS
O-R
1
HIGHEST degree of merit
ISTHEBEST INTHEWORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT 3
WAUG H S
RECEIVED THE INTERNATIONAL
Manufactured byJamesChaknon
Harbour S' Svohev
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTEETH
MARSHALL BROf
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College oe
Physicians of England. Consult him for . the
best and safest treatment on nervous debility,
skin, contagious, and blood diseases.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
-p
TO
a
•«
V,
*
r*
-4
O
3
-D
2
o
o
zo
O
t*
Z
%
A
O
$s
O
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst
quenching properties of this world renowned,
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElGWlN and
HARTSON, Sole Agents.
& (os
EXTRACT^
OF
SOAP
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF Him
8
flj
■OCT
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
71 Sussex Street, Sydney,
Ml)>
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
PROM
'V/,
Sorofula oa Necfa.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disecoes of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and CUTIOURA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Shin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged.to shun public place# by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the CufieupA Remedies,
whieh. have eured me, and left my skin and, blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Discuses.”
, Australian Consionekb,
JR. Towns St Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the 'CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Shin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable In treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, anu Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Sr tv.
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Rbsouvent, $i»og
per bottle.
Pkkpakxb by the
Potter Drug <6 Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER & OPTIOIAS
MBOURKE STREET,!
MELBOURNE. /
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
{
NEARLY OPPOSITE THE
POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 1
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OE MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.”—Lancet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
g IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and JNickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description. ___
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER- j
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TUT9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCO ATI NA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUBLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR
OR ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon, an
Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of preparations thickened yet
weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast
cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in a concentrated
form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk. „ i __
OSS’ CELEBRATED FOR REMARKABLY SUSTAINING PROPERTIES. SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR EARLY
BREAKFASTS. ADOPTED AS A MEDICAL COMFORT IN THE ROYAL NAVY
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in air-tight tinfe, at Is. 6d., 35., 55., 6d., &C.
Wholesale by the Sole Agents,
Schweitzer & Go., 10 Adams-st., Strand, W.C., London,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
W. W.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines'
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor, j fj j :.za
H« can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
.•.J&oO* fflAhjiii , , J’■ a ... which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.! -** 1
ENGLISH ALES'and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART. ;
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at. the
W 3, u. ncu&i _j m:>‘ ,t> j, .jtLowest Prices obtainable, in Sydney. ••■<*> .7 -t.__.ji i
|—AJttRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. - SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE. til'Wl
and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for. T"7
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway Station or any wharf in the city, or
any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £,3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
X Bottle PORT WINE. J,
3 Bottles WHISKY "" 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
l Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS' 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
i Total 18. i
r JJhe articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect Satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at the Haymarkef Post Office. „
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS: -
P, R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
\7ALLACH BEOS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION. ,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIAL^.
SCHOTT <35 C ©
MUSIC SELLKHS by special appointment to her majesty the w*
281 GEORGE STREET, „SYDNEY,|?
"LONDON, MAYJENCE, PARIS, and BRUSSELS.
1A R GBST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
C. R. YOUNG’S <llir
COMMERCIAL HOTU
GrXJI ALON Gr.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MA
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,'
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. <ss Co., Cirxci^^
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machi» eS ‘ ff
“ EVERY REQUISITE V6IVWOOD- WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN
Send for Catalosues and Prices.
— ,T —gyc
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular
“ DOORS ” Any Book You Want. “
AJXG-TJS A^ROBERTS 0 ’
113 HAKKET STREET, SYDNEY. jjoO^ 3! ”
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application-
mail to any part of Australia.
’ LIGHTEST, BEST, and’ CHEAPEST- { . f . T .«
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORG®
IDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for impairing a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros. andE. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker. __ _
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
, Street, Kedl'ern.
LINEN GLOSS.
T. T. FODEN & CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKIN® STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description of
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
STOREY, NOBLE #
AUCTIONEER
General Commission
COEAKI, RIOHMOND^^-^W^
Try
MUSICAL INST# 1^
The Largest Assortment
705 GBOBG-E 9 .
Send f°r
£oW‘
T
[HE CLIMAX ° F
MONTSER b^c*!'
LIME FBUIT JU IC^
SOLD EVBBY^? 1^
IS O TTT" Hi -A. InT D S,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for iErated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqaeurs*
