

The Bulletin


FOR COLONIAL-MADE
w
PROOF
pkO£ I*/
n\
PRQOi-
On fx
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY M ERCIIANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
5
2
V
o
%
REG 1 ?
Q e
•b
6 s
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c„ &C.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Used by All the
leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
-m
is
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
HARD MAN BRO’S.
&
V
I ■iimnfUiunfUiiiinHMUHn iihiiiwih
ANUFACTURERS,
.111 ii mu 11 ni m 111 mi mmui'l < n 11111 n■ 11 ii nll
W fe SB y /
r 'lC
/ GoidenSyrep/
y
Fh facie
HFF//VFRS
HEAD OFFICE & FACTORY. NEWTOWN
Branch, Cforce ST Sydney
J. M. ELLERCAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
the best house in the colony for shilling scarfs.
&
m.
MCARTHY <Sz CO.,
TOBACCO MERCHANTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
W Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.'B renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
s
0
cr>
w
era
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS. A CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, !<■ WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IKON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and
,WAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLAi>a, auiuuuui ijmu um LdtaTS
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS. COACH BUILDERS’ MATERIAL
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c
REQUISITES WOOD WORKING MACHINB^’
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS*
iTMrno nn *niiDTTTT nEPQ’ MAI EKI
■ ■■■
m
:IR 0>
ph^lrn
PLANJ^ a a
LATHES,
“bRA S&
SHEET
BRUSHWARE
MONGERY
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED -
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PAL
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application
POll'T
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
Head Warehouse -
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores-
• 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY and ENGINE STREET*-
■ HARBOUR STREET, DARLI>* u
SITDNTEir.
- 85 GRACECHURCH STR* 5 ® 1
BP
ARP
w
ir-'
urT*
u it
l"Jl
DUSMMSMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
OIXSO
3N & SONS _ f\ f?
CONQUER 0 , f
YANKEE Doo°
SIRROGjfV
NAILRO d u
Pi ss*
otxs
OIXSON & SONS
CHAM.
OIXSON* SONS * 8 ° yA
0»*«*
GUT.hn.w;
R.C.RUBY.ORIENTALM'J v
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAP *
m
o*
OTS
WN
w
\
$
v
4
&
&
TkaMwa't
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georoe-street.
K. HANNBY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
VINES, SPIRITS, and MILT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz.:—
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
XXX Irish Whiskies 4s.
Brian Boru Whisky 3s.
Hennessy’s * Cognag ss.
„ *** „ ... ... ... 6s.
Square Gin ... 4s.
Jamaica Rum... ... ... ... 4s.
Red Heart do 4s.
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the firat-clagß and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will- prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited,
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
t4-ec/v-Wi
ţ
■JygNIHOVW
LAND
ANO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
1 LARGE STOCKS
newestoes ,cNS
HIGHESTnN |SH
lowest COST
w
CPA
IST
pKC
A
——
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGSjLJ^r*
ESTIMATED FOB
t
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22) K ,,|C


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 351.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 38, 1880.
Price., Gd.
The Mosquito Season.
“That Political Insect, the O’Sullivan,” — Parkes,


THE BULLETIN.
niBUSHEU ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. . . .. .. ® s -
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. od.
Quarterly .. .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
J. M. lIARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
t mces should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1886.
A Word to the Australian Democracy.
“ Brisbane, Queensland, 15th September, 1886.
“ The Editor Bulletin. Sir,—Being a regular purchaser
of The Bulletin, and agreeing as I do with your senti-
ments on most subjects, still I cannot but fail to understand
your maudlin sympathy in connection with the use of the
• lash.’ Not wishing to trespass too much on your valuable
time, I will be as concise as possible. 1 would ask you one
question: have you a little daughter? (perhaps your only
child, whom you love better than your life). If so, how
would you like her .to be brutally assaulted? . . Would
you not think that 300 lashes with the ‘ cat’ on the back of
the blackguard who perpetrated the outrage but small
punishment for his offence? (And you must admit that the
only way to touch the feelings of such blackguards is through
their hides.) You say the ‘cat’ is degrading—perhaps it is;
all punishments must be degrading, even 12 hours’ in the
cells for drunkenness. I maintain that the ‘cat’ should be
used with discrimination, great discrimination, but for such
offences as ‘ rape,’ criminal assaults on children, and robbery
with molence, the ‘cat’ should be applied with a strong arm.
Perhaps you will say that should the scoundrels in the
Moore Park case be convicted, the ‘cat’ should be withheld.
I say such brutes should get 300 lashes in instalments of 50 <
each, have them .... and while their backs are raw
from their last instalment of lashes let them loose among
their ‘ pais ’ as a living example. That would be far greater
punishment than penal servitude, to say nothing of the cost
saved the country. I hope you will be kind enough to give
me a line in your ‘ Correspondence’ column, if only to inform
me you have consigned my letter to the waste paper basket.
I am, sir, yours truly, W. Arthur Abel.”
The foregoing letter is a fair sample of
what commonly passes for sound argument
on the subject of torture as a preventive
of crime. The subject is such a large one
that it is impossible in one article to cover
the whole ground. Some aspects of the case,
then, although full of interest and suggestive-
ness, can only be glanced at, while others
must remain unnoticed. Weusetheword “tor-
ture ” wittingly. That flogging as commonly
practised in the British army and navy a few
years ago, and at present among the civil
population of British Australasia, is justly re-
garded as a vigorous cadet of the once power-
ful family of which the rack, wheel, thumb-
screw, and scavenger’s daughter were mem-
bers, any one can testify who has stood by
the triangles and seen the little rills of blood
that followed each lash, and the small pieces
of raw flesh that became detached as the
punishment proceeded. In “ His Natural
Life ” Marcus Clarke has given a fair, but
by no means overdrawn, picture of a flog-
ing. A still better description is to be
found in the “Autobiography of a Working
Man,” written by a person who had suffered
the punishment himself, and was therefore
the best judge of what it meant. He was a
powerful young Scotchman —a trooper in the
Scots Greys, as Mr. Archibald Forbes was
some years subsequently—and, ostensibly
for some disobedience, but really in conse-
quence of his supposed democratic tendencies,
found himself one morning securely strapped
to aladder in the regimental riding-school while
being artistically flayed by a couple of farriers.
We cite these merely to show what flogging
is. In one sense, of course, our illustration
is quite irrelevant. For if it can be shown
that by such means crime can be kept at a
minimum, and, more important still, that the
whole community is not lowered and brutal-
ised, then by all means flog away. But we
contend that so long as there are savage
punishments there will be savage crimes, and
that, other things being equal, the people of
a country where bodily torture is common
will be more barbarous in their habits than
those in a land where it is unknown.
*- * *
Look at the world’s Statute-books. As
civilisation advances, torture ceases, until to-
day, in the more advanced countries-, it is
dead with no hope of resuscitation. In
France, Germany, Italy, and the United
States, with one or two exceptions, it would
be no more possible to restore corporal pun-
ishment than to reconstitute society after the
pattern of the days of Louis XIV. In other
words, 40 millions of Frenchmen, 50 millions
of Germans, 30 millions of Italians, and
nearly 60 millions of Americans are con-
vinced, after centuries of trial, that torture
is a blunder. Nearly 200 millions of people
belonging to nations whose place in the first
line of civilisation none can gainsay can keep
their rascaldom in check without skinning
them. Yet New South Wales, with a popu-
lation less than half that of a first-rate city,
cannot govern without the halberts. This is
simply proclaiming in the world’s face that
the governors, or the governed, or both, of this
happy land are greater scoundrels than are to
be found elsewhere. Even admitting such
to be the case, we certainly might keep the
fact to ourselves.
* * •*
A few years ago a prison congress was held
in London. The representatives of the
various European states heard with astonish-
ment that bodily torture was still allowed in
Great Britain. What wonder that Mill,
Dickens, and many others whose names are
household words wherever the literature
they enriched is prized, spoke of the re-intro-
duction of the whipping-post as a step back-
wards in civilisation ! In England this step
backwards was taken some years ago, on the
occasion of a sudden increase in a particular
form of crime accompanied with violence. It
has since been abundantly and repeatedly
proved that the revival of the lash has had
absolutely nothing to do with the suppres-
sion or restriction of the special offence it
was designed to meet. But while its failure
in one direction has been complete, its suc-
cess in another has been unqualified. It has
succeeded, not alone in inviting the well-
deserved contempt of foreigners, but by
habituating the public to these disgusting
punishments, deadened and perverted public
sentiment. When the subject is pre-
sented in this light there arise the
familiar yells of “maudlin sentiment,”
“ mawkish philanthropy,” “ drivelling
balderdash,” and similar rant from the great
army of dunces who, thinking they have
mastered a difficult subject when they have
merely touched it, parade their crude
theories of crime and bawl for Rhadaman-
tliine treatment. But there is nothing more
certain than that —leaving the culprit quite
out of the question— the men who witness a
flogging, and the men, women, and children
who read of it in the journals, are rendered
appreciably callous by the sight or the
description. Some months ago a description of
a Queensland flogging went the rounds of the
papers, and it is not too much to say that it
did more to shock public sentiment, and by
so doing increase the very offence it was
designed to correct, than a dozen unpunished
crimes. It induced thousands scattered
through the various colonies to curse the
laws under which such abominations were
tolerated and the law-givers who made them.
* * *
There is little doubt that the brutality of
the lower classes of the British people—the
wife-beating, animal-torturing, and general
desire to inflict pain—is due largely to the
horrible punishments to which their rulers
so long familiarised them. To curb the
cruel tendencies of a community by the
very means that cause them is the far-seeing
doctrine advocated by the friends of corporal
punishment. It was only in 1816 that a law
proclaiming the “ inexpediency ” of flogging
females was passed by the British Parlia-
ment. Prior to that it was no unusual thing
in an English town to see a writhing wretch
walking at the cart’s tail through the public
streets, her breast and back bare, her hair
bound up or cut short to give the lash fair
play, and the blood trickling from her shoul-
ders as the cat fell on them. From open
windows men and women looked on and
jeered at her cries. What,wonder that those
habituated to such sights massacred, tor-
tured, and outraged at Ciudad Rodrigo the
very people they were sent to support! Yet
when the reformers of 70 years ago demanded
the cessation of such outrages, the cries of
“ mawkish philanthropy ” and “ snivelling
humanitarianism ” filled the air just as we
hear them to-day. But the “ sentiment ”
that many affect to deride is the very thing
that prevents' females from being whipped.
There is no reason why a brutal woman
should not have her back scored as well as a
brutal man. To be fair, then, those who ad-
vocate corporal punishment should clamour
for its extension to women for crimes similar
to those for which men are corrected. It is
not humanity that prompts them to withhold
their advocacy. It is nothing but “ mawkish
sentiment ” that keeps them silent.
* * *
It is a singular fact that among English-
speaking people only has this system of
punishment been revived. In other lands,
wfien it once dies it dies for good. But this
is not all. Before a man is hanged it must
be shown that a murder has been committed
—or attempted ; a corpse or a wounded
man must be produced. Similarly, in rob-
bery with violence, the only offence for
which the lash is used in England, a person
must be brought forward who has been
robbed and maltreated. But such limitations
on the use of the scourge find no favour with
the democracy of Australia. With us,
whether from the tainted surroundings of our
early national life, or from the absence of
any checks which the neighbourhood of cul-
tivated nations might impose, the punish-
ment can be applied, not alone for crimes of
a trivial character, but for those which, of
all others, are most difficult to prove, and
the evidence for which is most easily con-
cocted. With us no man is safe w r ho travels
with women in train or tram, who attracts
the attention of prurient children, or offends
the meanest constable. The inevitable re-
sult has followed. In many cases men en-
tirely innocent, and others guilty of offences
whose proper penalty would have been a
trifling fine or a short incarceration, have
had their lives blasted and themselves con-
verted into confirmed criminals by the hang-
man’s whip. Let us illustrate.
* * *
Not long ago a bushman having “ knocked
down ” his cheque and entered on a
penance of delirium tremens, wandered into
the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne. He prob-
ably thought himself away on the Lachlan or
the Darling, and so went to sleep under a
tree, having first removed some of his cloth-
ing and rolled it into a pillow. His sentence
was seventy-five stripes in three instalments
of twenty-five each. Some time last year a
Norwegian sailor came ashore in Sydney
after a long voyage. He misconducted
himself in the bush some miles away with a
common woman who solicited his attentions.
For this he was flogged. To find a case
equalling this for scandalous stupidity it
would be necessary to go back two centuries
to the Puritan settlements of New England,
where men and women were scourged naked
in the market place for following the laws of
their nature. The idea of putting down
sexual instincts with the cat-o’-nine-tails is
peculiarly Anglo-Saxon. Again, it was only
the other day that a chimney-sweep at Yass,
New South Wales, while being hauled to the
lock-up, made use of some dirty and profane
language. For this he was sentenced to 20
lashes and would have received all, but that
outraged nature charitably brought him un-
consciousness with the twelfth stroke, when
the presiding surgeon mercifully ordered his
release, and the savages who witnessed the
torture made up a small collection to send
the bleeding wretch home to his wife and
family ! From the criminal records of any
modern nation we defy the rulers of New
South Wales to produce such an instance as
this of unmeaning savagery. A unique posi-
tion among nations may be fairly claimed
for a people which places in the hands of its
male children the odes of Horace, the
satires of Juvenal, and the accumulated
literary filth of decaying Rome, while its
daughters revel in the garbage of Zola, and
yet meets the stupid ribaldry of a half-crazy
chimney-sweep with the lash. On the shelves
of our public libraries, and in our. open
bibles, are to be found more ribaldry and
blasphemy than all the blackguards in the
land could belch in a life-time.
A few weeks ago two men were sentenced in
Sydney to be whipped for a filthy crime. The
evidence against them was that of one police-
man who made the discovery by striking a
match in an open park on a dark night.
Think of the power thus placed in the hands
of a vicious officer ! If the men were guilty
the case should have been sent to a jury.
But no jury would convict on such evidence.
The fact is, as the law stands and is adminis-
tered in New South Wales, none are safe
whom business or pleasure tempts into lonely
places. Thus while the advance of De-
mocracy in other countries means the ad-
vance of humanity, in Australia, a 3 if to
emphasize the anomalous character of the
country, it still leans towards brutality. Why
then, this hypocritical wonder at the out-
rages which from time to time shock the
public conscience ? Why not take to heart
the lesson learnt by older nations after cen-
turies of trial —brutal laws make a brutal
people. The working classes of Australia,
in whose hands all political power
lies, are so blind to their own interests as to
make scourges for their own backs. Who
ever hears of a person with good clothes and
a place in what is called “society” being
flogged ? Is it because they are more moral
than their poorer fellow-citizens ? Do not
cases occur daily where the man in broad-
cloth escapes while he in moleskins goes to
the triangles ? There was that case in Mel-
bourne where a scoundrel in evening dress
stood on the steps of the Theatre Royal
while the people were pouring out and
committed a nameless offence. The other
day the head of an important city firm
behaved similarly on a suburban railway
platform. Had obscure individuals been
concerned the papers would have whined
over the disgusting details, while Tartuffish
magistrates would have hastened to prescribe
the “cat.”
* * *
The British army and navy were, up to
quite recently, recruited from the very dregs
of the population. Now men of a far higher
standing find their way into the ranks. Why ?
Because, for one reason, corporal punishment
has been swept away. An armed force with-
out strict discipline is a mere mob, a banditti,
more dangerous to friends than to foes.
Have the discipline and the fighting qualities
of the British suffered through the disappear-
ance of the cat ? Let the recent campaigns
in Afghanistan and the Soudan testify.
Thus it is found that a highly-organ-
ised force, where prompt obedience is
essential, can be governed without the tri-
angles, while a civil population, where no
such obedience is necessary or desirable,
must be flogged into good behaviour. There
i 3 surely food for serious reflection here.
There is something wrong. It is for
the people of Australia to consider
whether they are right in blindly following
the lead of men bred up in the shadow of
the triangles—of men whose limited vision is
incapable of seeing all round a great subject
—of men who, regardless of the experience
of nations which were great and polished
long before the first scream of a tortured
man was heard across Sydney harbour, tottei
towards their unhonoured graves oblivious of
the shame they have brought upon the coun-
try cursed by their adoption.
Provinces First!
“ The future Independence of Australia is written
in the book of Fate.” That is a good, bold, and
plain assertion made five-and-twenty years ago
when men who had thoughts within them did not,
shirk emphatic utterance, when the Governor re-
presented the Imperial power and governed, when
Australian statesmen represented Australia and
fought, when the continent had not yet begun to
tremble into form and there was opportunity for
such an arrangement of particles as to make ulti-
mate cohesion easy and sure. There were men in
those days of a truly Australian breadth, neithor
provincial nor metropolitan, but continental in
instinct as in plan. The first and foremost amongst
these was John Dunmoke Lang, and a leading
principle of all his larger Australian actions was
that expressed by the title of this article, “Pro-
vinces First.”
* * *
])r. Lang had travelled. He had seen the king-
doms of Europe and the Republic of America; he
had been down South through the Brazils and the
old Spanish colonies. Me was loyal by instinct
and breeding, he was cautious by nature ; hut he
was a right, true, democratic Australian, by com-
pulsion of the whole might of duty and the teach-
ing of much experience. Fifty years of such large
life as few men know, and a full half of it up and
down on all the Eastern coast of this continent,
had convinced him that the greatest hope the
future held was of an Australian nation and
an Australian Republic. He set himself to
realise that hope, to evolve from it a prac-
tical plan, to plot the lines by which that,,plan
should ultimately be wrought out, and these were
a few' of his ideas. No province must ho tec
large—so large as to have a preponderating in-
fluence in any union. Such is the teaching of
Nature, and such the accepted principle in
America. Texas desired to join the Union, and
Texas was annexed by the House of Representa-
tives, but “ the American Senate, as the guardian
of the rights and interests of the people through-
out the Union would not allow the annexation
until a proviso had been inserted in the Act for the
division of Texas into four distinct States as soon
as tire progress of settlement and the amount of
population should warrant such a division.”
* * *
That passage was written before any sub-divi-
sion of New Holland had been made, when lines
of demarcation had not been drawn, and when
statesmanship had opportunity to give effect to its
ideas. And, says the old doctor, always following
the teachings of Nature and seeing the great Aus-
tralia of the near future, “ the natural boundary of
N.S.\V. northward is the 30tlr parallel ” -south of
oho Clarence River and the sugar country. The
Clarence, Richmond, and Tweed he considered to
be allied to Brisbane (the free Brisbane he planted).
“ And then Dawes Range, on the 25th parallel,
would have formed the southern boundary of the
future colony still farther North.”
* *
How easy for any well-informed and unprejudiced
man to take up the map to-day and note the ad-
vantages of these natural divisions. And how
were they changed or lost ? Let Governor Denison,
who was fooling with his round toweis and ginger-
bread fortifications in Sydney harbour, find a
reply. He was in the hands of Wentworth and
the squatting party, and New Holland was divided
by him, not in the broad and general interests of
Australia, but to suit the squatters. The twenty-
eighth parallel and Macpherson’s range were made
the Northern boundaries. The Clarence and Rich-
mond were tied to Sydney, the whole ef the North
shackled to Brisbane. And what have heon the
results ! Tn New South Wales alone they cannot
be described as other than deplorable. The Aus-
tralian idea has been lost —a game of boggar-my-
neighbour has taken the place of statesmanship.
A jealousy base and foolish almost as the senti-
ment of the old emancipists has been nurtured
and cherished against Victoria and Queensland,
and no labour has seemed so good as that which
tended to suck Australia and feed Sydney. Rail'
ways have been pushed away to Victorian and
Queensland boundaries, and goods carried over
them at losing rates. No great effort has been
made to improve themauy harbours on the coast,
better make coastal railways and give all the trade
to Sydney. Sydney, Sydney everywhere; if " e
can only make Sydney a little larger than Mel-
bourne it will be quite enough.
* * *
It is altogether mean and miserable w r ork,
no thought for a great future in _ it, no f a,r
plan for a satisfactory present, and it has been
very faithfully copied in Queensland. All the
North through all the years of Australian historj
has been neglected for, if not sacrificed to, Bris
bane. There has never been a statesman in P°" c
in the colony competent and willing to take
large-minded and liberal view of circumstanc
and opportunity and follow the teachings
Nature. Right through Australia runs the sam
grievance—Townsville and Grafton, Wagga a
Hay and Wentworth, each and all have
liberally dowered by Nature and grievous
wronged and robbed by political tinkers m
querading as statemakers in Sydney and Brisbai
* * *
What bars the road to Australian I ederation
to-day ? Is it not the jealousy of a half-d° j
men in Sydney of another half-dozen m
hourne, and the fear of a third coterie m
bane that they might be swamped in Conni ■
And what will clear the way but the shatte ®
of these great, unwieldy, ill-governed colome _
the emancipation by that shock of the true eens-
tralian impulse and sentiment? North Q>i
land is the first natural province to strn e
sistently after that separation and freedom, ‘
and fight for and ultimately win that ,
Nature gave. And when North Q ueen v or th
wins and begins to enjoy her own,
New South Wales, or New England
for the province is already well name ’ h i e m
also speak and strike, will tackle the n nft .
of a port at the Clarence open to ships of a j] t
tions, and a railway right through t° 11 je-
And then Wentworth will be heard in str ,jj e
nunciation of the most infernally selfish P° ter .
world ever knew, which would let an open c aJl( j
way of a thousand miles in length be j cr to
all the fertilising storms run to waste m tten
make profit out of a political railway an vVB
the merchants of an already ,°\ ; .- ver ina,
metropolis. Wentworth will join u'lt h an d
probably, for Riverina will surely speak ’^^
not as she spoke before. When North i aI1( j
wins, the day of mockery of provincial u
true Australian aspirations will be g° n ■


unK North Queensland giant, unfettered, erect,
y nd free, will be greeted right south and west by
iU half-dozen younger brothers, and the old men
and old women babbling by the sea may put up
their shutters, or otherwise open their hearts and
dear their heads, and become purveyors and mana-
gers of honest Australian stuff.
A Colossal Job.
Considerable interest will be felt by miners in
the proceedings which have lately taken place in
l ho Queensland Parliament in connection with a
petition presented by one William Marshall
asking for an enquiry into the means whereby
the whole of the Mount Morgan gold-field has
been handed over to one company. A gold-field,
especially if it be an exceptionally rich one such
as Mount Morgan (which is said to yield about
£3O 000 weekly), is a very desirable piece of pro-
perty. But until lately it has never happened in
Australia that one party has been able to secure a
whole gold-field to themselves. It will, therefore,
interest miners generally to learn how this has
been achieved, and the story may also operate as
a warning to the miners of New South Wales
and Victoria against being led to rush to Queens-
land by the favourable accounts sometimes re-
ceived from the Northern fields.
* * *
Mount Morgan was discovered to he auriferous
in 1882, and was proclaimed a gold-field on 20th
September, 1883. The gold was first discovered
in stone on a freehold of 640 acres belonging to
one Gordon, a selector, who was bought out by
the originators of the Mount Morgan Company for
£(iio (before he knew that his little estate contained
a gold-mine). This 6 40 acres, however, did not cover
tho whole of the gold-field, and the Mount Morgan
Company proceeded to secure that portion which
was outside their freehold. Complaints were soon
heard that extended claims had been grantod to
them (although by the Queensland regulations
such claims can only be granted :
1. When the ground has been previously worked and aban-
doned.
2. When it is so poor that it will not pay for working by ordi-
nary methods.
3. When the expense of procuring and erecting machinery
is unusually great.)
None of these conditions existed at Mount Morgan.
Thon complaints were made that gold-mining
leases were issued to the company within two
months of the proclamation of the gold-field, al-
though by the Queensland law leases cannot be
issued on any gold-field within two year 3 from the
date of its proclamation. Then there was an entry
that the Warden refused to permit the mining
registrar at Rockhampton to receive applications
for any land claimed by the Company, so that
miners who wished to dispute their title could not
get into court to do so.
* * *
But as certain points have been proved by re-
turns laid before the Parliament of Queensland,
and by proceedings in the courts of the colony, we
will lay before our readers those facts, whicli have
been proved :
Ist. The largest reward claim which, by the Queensland
regulations, can be granted to any prospector for the
discovery of a new gold-field is 500 x 400 feet But
for the discovery of Mount Morgan the Warden
granted the company 1200 x 400 feet.
2nd. Extended claims can only be granted under the cir-
cumstances mentioned before, which did not exist at
Mount Morgan, but the Warden granted the Com-
pany extended claims enabling each man employed
to hold four times the area which he could otherwise
have held, although the applications did not set
forth any grounds on which extended claims should
be granted, nor did the Warden state any reason for
granting them.
3rd. Two gold-mining leases were issued to the Company
within two mouths after the proclamation of the
gold-field—contrary to the provisions of the Gold
Fields Act.
4th, These leases were granted although notices of the ap-
plication for them had not been posted and published
as required by the regulations.
sth. An actiou having been commenced against the Com-
pany by parties who disputed the validity of these
leases, the Company was permitted immediately after
the termination of the two years from the proclama-
tion of the gold-field to surrender these leases, and
others were issued to them whilst their title was still
in litigation.
6th. The Warden instructed the Mining-Registrar at Rock-
hampton to refuse to receive applications for land
occupied by the company, and himself tore down
some notices which had been received by the Regis-
trar and posted as required by the regulations, and
returned them to the applicants, refusing to hear or
decide upon their applications.
7th. A miner named Bond having applied to the Supreme
Court for a mandamus to compel the Warden to
hear and decide on his application, the counsel for
the Company objected that as Bond had applied m
his own name for more than 50 x 400 feet, his appli-
cation was bad, and the Warden was justified in re-
fusing to entertain it, and the Supreme Court upheld
this objection.
6th. From the Register of Claims it appears that the
Warden had registered for one applicant, being a
member of the Company, 1200 x 400 feet in one claim
and for two, 3600 x 400 feet. The Warden had also
registered for the members of the Company two
claims (“ area not stated,”) and the total area of the
claims registered for the members of the Company
was 15,400 x 400 feet, in addition to the two claims,
whose area was not stated, and this amount of
ground was taken up in the names of eight persons,
of whom several were minors.
6th. One of these claims was registered as exempt from
work for six months within six months after it was
taken, and shortly after for an additional four
months’ exemption, contrary to.the regulations.
16th. All the original documents connected with the Mount
Morgan claims, applications, &e., have disappeared
mysteriously, and are not to be found either in the
Warden’s Office at Rockhampton or in the Mines
Office at Brisbane.
llth. When the Company bought the 640-acre freehold from
Gordon, the deed of grant transferred to them de-
scribed the boundary lines as bearing to the cardinal
points of the compass in accordance with the Regu-
lations of the Queensland survey department. After
the value of the Mount Morgan field was well proved
the Company surrendered this deed to the Government
who issued to them another deed in which the bear-
ings of the boundary lines were altered so as to throw
out some land formerly included in it, and take in
some that was not. About 56 acres of the richest
part of the gold-field that was before outside the
freehold was by this alteration brought within it.
This second deed purports to be issued under the
“Corrected Titles to Land Act of 1882,” but that Act
doesnot authorise any such thing as has been done here,
and the issue of this second grant is clearly illegal.
* * *
All those numerous illegal and improper tilings
Laving been done in favour of the Company, it is
ot to be wondered at that reports have been
in Queensland that leading Government
facials and politicians were shareholders in
‘ ° unt Morgan, and this idea has been much
' ren gthened by the secrecy maintained as to the
composition of the company. For although by
e Queensland law an association of more than 20
Persons has no legal status as a company unless
egistered, and although more than 20 persons are
Qown to be shareholders in Mount Morgan, yet
e company has not been registered, and the in-
('fence drawn is that it is to the interest of the
un? Pany some °f its members shall remain
. kl fown. The petitioner prayed that Parliament
°uld cause enquiry to be made —
2nd * nt ° t * le t rut h of the facts alleged.
■ Into the legality of the transactions if it should he
3rd OU,KI t'Ha.t they were as alleged.
That if the petitioner had been wronged, they should
_ give him such redress as he might be entitled to.
“Jkflwt presentation the Legislative Assembly
used to receive the petition, adopting the
opinion of Sir S. Griffith (who is also counsel
for the Mount Morgan Company) that it was dis-
respectful to the House to allege that the conduct
of the Warden at Rockhampton had been “ unjust
oppressive, and illegal.” It is to he noticed that
the House of Commons has not only often re-
ceived petitions impeaching public officers in lan-
guage quite as strong, but that it has itself used
stronger language in petitioning the Crown (vide
declaration of right and ground remonstrance).
The Assembly in Queensland has also of late years
several times received a petition impugning the
action of the Judges of the Supreme Court.
* *
On these objectionable words being expunged,
however, the Assembly received the petition, but
refused any enquiry on the grounds (brought for-
ward by Sir S. Griffith again) that the case was
still in litigation. The litigation consists of two
appeals to the Privy Conned, and no evidence
taken now could be laid before the Privy Council
or in any way affect the decision in that tribunal.
It is to be noted, too, that Sir S. Griffith, who
considers that no enquiry should be made into the
conduct of Government officers who lie under
suspicion of having been corruptly influenced in
the performance of their public duties whilst
litigation arising out of their conduct is proceed-
ing, did not see that the fact of the right to cer-
tain claims being in litigation was any reason why
the Government should not issue fresh leases for
the disputed ground to the Mount Morgan Com-
pany.
* * *
There can be no doubt that there is a prima
facie case of the greatest suspicion against the
administration of the Mines and Lands Depart-
ments in Queensland in connection with this
affair, and that suspicion will be increased by the
refusal of the Assembly to investigate the grounds
of it. We trace the history of this business, how-
ever, with ming'ed feelings. On the one hand it
affords us some satisfaction to consider that the
Legislature of New South Wales is not, as some
would have us believe, the worst in Australia. The
members of the N.S.W. Assembly have their
little eccentricities. They yell abuse at each other
in the House, and playfully punch each other’s
heads in the lobbies. But they have never assisted
to cloak corruption in the public service by re-
fusing to enquire into such a case as this.
On • the other hand, we feel sorry to mark the
decay of that great independent body of miners
who at one time were so powerful and did so much
for these colonies. Try to imagine any Govern-
ment granting Ballarat or Lambing Flat or
Temora to one company by such dodges as have
been practised in Queensland ! The very idea is
absurd. The Ministry that tried it would have
disappeared for ever. But in Queensland the
miners stand it. They grumble, but, so far, they
have submitted to being robbed of their birthright.
The calmness with which the working-miner has
stood by while those responsible for this colossal
job have spread their claws over one of the richest
gold-fields on earth surely favours the theory that
the white race degenerates in a hot climate.
Under such an administration of the Gold-Fields
Act it is plain that the son 3 of the Northern miner
must grow up to be not men, but “ crawlers.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Too Great Britain.
The latest addition to the “bunkum” statisticians
is Professoi John Fiske, of the United States,
who prophesies that before the end of next cen-
tury there will be 600,000,000 English-speakers
in his own country, 150,000,000 ditto in Austra-
lasia, 50,000,000 in Canada, 30,000,000 in South
Africa, and a few other “ hundred millions ” of
Anglo-Saxons scattered around generally over the
habitable globe. He is still a little behind that
Swiss “statistician,” who, a short time ago, reckoned
out that by the year 2000, a.d., there will be
1,500,000,000 English-speaking people (rather
more than the entire present population of the
earth). How do these philosophers arrive at their
alarming conclusions, which the Jingo Press
delights to copy and gloat over without ever stop-
ping to ask whether they are well founded ? The
modus operandi is very simple. You And that
some particular country, under peculiar circum-
stance*, has doubled its population, say in 20 or 25
years, and you carry this on (with the aid of pen
and paper) for a century or two with magnificent
results. It is the story of the nails in the
horse-shoe all over again. Hut here the
question comes in Can the pace last 2
We are not going into the Malthusian question —-
don’t he afraid. We will just say that the Mal-
thusian proposition, “ that population tends to
increase-faster than the food-supplies,” has been
apparently knocked on the head by the sudden
occupation of vast tracts of new, fertile country
combined with immense improvements in agricul-
ture. But perhaps it is only temporarily the
“ grim theory ” has been put down ; it may come
up frowning again the moment population has
levelled up to the increased food production which
took the strain somewhat off the machine for a
very short while. The law of population and the
laws of national development and decay are dark
mysteries yet, on whose threshold we are only
just standing, peering into the gloom. Statistics
help us but little ; we have, even in the most civi-
lised countries, only some half century ef reliable re-
cords to go upon. But we do know one thing. Popu-
lation and civilisation sometimes increase with won-
derful celerity—we might say mushroom rapidity,
if the life of our planet is taken into consideration—
and then die down again with even greater speed.
Egypt, Persia, and the old Graeco-Roman civilisa-
tion are cases in point, and should make these
modern statisticians who deal in humanity by the
hundred million, pause to think. China may be
quoted as an exception to the up-and-down move-
ment of nations and population, but we know
nothing as to whether the number of Celestials is
less or greater now than it was in those palmy
days of the Middle Empire when medieval
travellers from Europe were astonished at its
wealth and the grandeur of its cities. We do,
however, know that the vast population which is
to-day huddled together on the fertile soil of
China, lives for the most part in an inconceivable
condition of wretchedness and degradation,
and that the numbers of the beehive are
only kept down by sweeping plagues and famine,
and by infanticide and other practices peculiar
to the country. The daily pittance of a Chinese
or an Indian labourer would not stand an
Australian in a single drink, and the arti-
san’s working hours are from dawn to 10 p.m.
Is this “ the pretty state of things ” which the
prophets of universal Anglo-Saxondom want us to
people down to, or do they complacently view the
approach of the time when “ every rood of
ground” shall not only support its man,” but when
poor humanity shall be packed together like sar-
dines in a tin 2 Do these philosophers think we can
get rid of surplus population by shoving it off into
space, or asking it to hang on to the earth by it 3
eyebrows 2 Or is it supposed that the year 2000 a.d.
will be the beginning of the millennium, and the
end of all mundane difficulties, at least for the
Anglo-Saxon race ? We can imagine the saintly
nigger from the Southern States (he speaks English,
you know) posted at the Wesleyan entrance to the
millennial Paradise, waving back the crowds of
unhappy Continentals and Orientals who are throng-
ing towards the golden gate, and diouting at them :
“ Stand back dar, you low foreign trash, and
leave de track clear for de Anglo-Saxon genTiuns
whose gwine to ockipy dis yar reserve.” Speaking
seriously, we would remind the clairvoyant statis-
ticians who handle the multiplication table with
such vigour, and the daily newspapers who
delight to do them honour, that this rapid and
continuous doubling of the population would in-
fallibly be accompanied by recurrent periods of
“ hard times” such as we have never seen yet—
low wage 3, long spells of “no work,” aad that
terrible repressive agency—gaunt famine. Emigra-
tion is becoming with every year less and less a
solution of the population difficulty, and it will be
ever more and more necessary that each country
shall seriously set itself to solve tlio problem of
how to support its own people in comfort and
content.
♦
The “Representative Australians”
and the London Poor.
A Herald special telegram (and there must be
exceedingly lax supervision in the Herald’s Lon-
don office or that telegram would have been
burked) states that “ the appeal made to the Aus-
tralian colonists on behalf of the London poor has
not met with any substantial response.” The
presence and the sufferings of the poor were plain
enough, the appeal made by the East-end bishop
was doubtless eloquent enough, but the “colon
ists ” were not at home for that sort of thing.
They had sat at the boards of the men of weal: h.
they had taken their flli o r the iilohed . meed
of labour, yet had they studied the foundations of
the entertainments they had received they would
doubtless have found themselves very deeply in-
debted to the London poor. But that is precisely
what they did not do, they studied nothing but
themselves, their own feelings, their own stomachs,
their own desires, to which the nod of a duke or
the forefinger of an earl, or the distant smile of a
prince came as all-satisfying provender. The poor
of London! What could the poor of London do
for Smith, K.C.M.G., or the “Honorable”
Jones ? There were a hundred and ten thousand
of them by latest statistics all wanting bread, fire,
clothes; all idle and hungry and destitute, and was
it to be expected that “Australian colonists”
would go down amongst them or would send any of
their surplus wealth amongst them 1 But “surplus,”
says a visitor, who never posed as a distinguished
colonist, “ bless you, they have no surplus ; if
you only knew how they intrigue for every invita-
tion, how they pay through the nose for every
telegram and paragraph, how they hunt popularity
and purchase recognition, you would pity them
scarcely less than the London poor.” And there
is very little doubt that so much is true, and after
all we may render thanks that, apart from the
“ distinguished colorist, we have one or two
good representatives in London who do not make
much figure on “ great occasions,” nor yet awa’t
a bishop’s appeal to deal their bread to the hungry
poor.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ P.M.G.” (Redfern) : We must decline, a,-
we don’t know you “A. Terry": Thanks, but
we've just about finished with the subject ” Gaffney”;
All to hand. Are working up your ideas in re Chinese and
railway-opening “ H.D.M.”: Thanks; the subject, how-
ever, is one which we can hardly discuss at length “T.
Digna” (Kyneton): Fisher, not “Frasher,” was the name of
the man killed by Smith. The affair occurred at Campbell-
town, N.S.W., over 40 years ago. Read Lang’s account, pro-
curable anywhere for a shilling. Lang tells the story as wel
as anybody else. .." W. Cottle": Who or what on earth is
the “Sydney Jockey Club?" Have you been had on toast!
“ Fragment”: Your first verse is all very well in its way:
“ Once, gliding on a stream,
Sat a man within a boat—
* The stream it was this life
Through which we calmly float,”—
but when you begin to deal with the question of your best
girl, you no longer “calmlyfloat.” “A.Chalmers": Notup
to the mark...." A.S.” (N.Z.): We did not get beyond the
fourth verse—the one that reads —
Hereafter shall clodhoppers he
As merry and happy as boys ;
They’ll work on and starve with much glee,
Since the Prince has approved of their corduroys.
We were taken with a fit at that point....” C.S. : The
words, “ He either fears his fate too much,” &c., are put by
Aytoun into the mouth of the Marquis of Montrose....
“ Sazerac’,: Thanks. Will read and consider...." Jove ”
Lest year the N.S.W. revenue was £7,561,771, as against Vic-
toria’s £6,528,213....“ Native” (Cudal) : Too local. Not of
general interest..“ W.E.C.": Next week. Glad to hear from
you.S.C.” (Nyngan): Your “ previous letter” didn’t arrive.
"H.W.F.” (Victoria): Many thanks...." J.J.C.”: A “Go
vernment of titled brigands.’ ....“ Camera : The ideas are
there, but the verses need patching—“R.B.”: “It is
illegal for a woman to publicly wear man’s attire. The law is
a necessary one, for in these .days there are lots of women
whom you couldn’t tell from men if it were not for their
clothes....“ R. 8.”: The matter is mainly one of education;
Dr. Jefferis’ flock are not one whit more moral than the Free-
thought people. You can’t make a child moral by
sending it regularly to Sunday-school and there let-
ting your concern for its moral welfare cease
“Omicron ” : Good “ Tory ” (Melbourne) : Judging from
recent Divorce Court proceedings the term “Tory ” is taken
from the latter half of “ amatory.” Itcertainly has nothing
to do with “ oratory,” for the average English Conservative
be"ins by saying that he is unaccustomed —ahem—to public
sneaking, and then restores his 18 stone of ignorant bigotry
to the chair from which it rose “ W.W.8.” (Winton): You
ask us to “ rsix this up in our usual crisp way,” but we can t
mix the darned thing up. There is nothing to mix, except
the magistrate who, you say, is “ bauld-headed. .... Sub-
scriber” (Goulburn): Too h0t.... “ Adonais : Held....
‘Mark Rowe": “Gone over to the great majority cant be
made to rhyme with “ the fools who are in authority.” Be-
sides, when you talk about your friend having gone over to
the majority, do you mean to intimate that he is in Sheol ;
For judgin'* by the way in which most people behave them-
selves while on earth, only a small minority can go to Heaven....
“TP”' There are two sorts of “ blow ” in the N.S.W . As-
s >mbiy—lung and fist....“ C.H.H.” : Mr. Farrell's poems
Will be published shortly “ Anglo-Austrahan : Will say
something re your letter shortly....” C.H.R. (Petersham):
We fully agree..“ Hairpin ” (Grafton): Thanks. We are
getting tired of Chinamen, but will endeavour to use your
fnecdote....“ Honest” (Cairns): We dont know whether
your items are meant for satire or pathos. You ought to
supply us with diagrams in such a case.... A.W.G. . Held.
“H Martin”: No, they have not been re-published....
“WET” (Sydney): “Upwards of a thousand” certainly
means more than a thousand. Just you come in and give us
upwards of a pound and we’ll give you 20s. for it any day....
“PS J ’’ • The Sydney Morning Herald is run on three
great principle*. The first is £s. d., the second is £s. d„
and the third is £s. d. [Many replies held over].
T HE VERDICT OF TRUTH.
Fair Truth, who live3 —so the legend 3 say—*
At the bottom of a well,
Came to the surface the other d .y
To search for facts as a goddes i may,
When she has a doubt to quell.
She’d read all the advertising lore,
Touching diffTent kinds of beer,
And knew that some of the traders swore
And looked and felt uncommonly sore,
About one they’d cause to fear.
So she gather’d opinions all around
And put them all to lest;
And none can question he. judgment sound.
For the more she -ei • h’d the more she found
That Clausen’s Lagor was best.
And the lovely eyes of the goddess gleam’d
As she spoke in her o .v i good name :
Let this my verdict be rightly deem'd ;
Let the voice of Truth be well esteem’d ;
Hand the “ Phoenix” brand to Fame.
Let it be Truth’s ; ’Tis the only one
That’s worthy my name to bear;
Let Clausen’s Lager henceforth be known
As the one that atm id* i>y ci: iloir
For, like Tiuth mf. ’tis ran
CLADSIN'S [?]
Is kept in all First-clam. Lim . -vywh'-.r arid
everybody drinks it.
It is the finest tonic that can be administered,
and is recommended to patients of weak constitu-
bions and nervous temperaments by the most pro-
minent phys cians, in preference to all other
brands, as the purest and most wholesome
stimulant obtainable.
The following excerpts are from amass of
able testimony :
“THE BEST OX THE MARKET.”
Messrs. Lucas 8r03., wine and spirit merchants
of 10, Pitt-street, write “ With great pleasure
we add our testimony to the merits aid great,
superiority of Clausen’s Lager Beer. We have
been supplying it wholesale to our customers all
over the colony for some time. It has given
them the greatest satisfaction, and we feel bound
to say it is the best Lager Beer that has yet been
placed on this market. The bottles have large
contents, the beer is entirely free from sediment
is clear, bright, and sparkling, and above all re-
freshes without producing drowsiness. We find’
its well-deserved patronage daily increasing.”
“SUPERIOR TO EVERY OTHER BRAND.”
Mr. Fred W. Forster, of the Theatre Royal
Hotel, says Having had considerable ex-
perience in America, where Lager is considered
the national drink, I have much pleasure in inform-
ing you that I have found Clausen’s Champagne
Lager Beer superior to every other brand. I have
had it on sale here ever since its introduction, and
am pleased to state that it has given unqualified
satisfaction to my patrons, all of whom speak of
it in the highest terms, and prefer it to every other
for its brightness, flavor, and purity. From a trade
point of view I have never had a single breakage
to complain of, or a bottle in bad condition ; and
can honestly recommend it as a perfect Lager in
every respect. It is entirely free from sediment
and waste, and is undoubtedly the leading brand
in the market, and in my opinion will long remain
so.
“IN EVERY WAY PLEASED WITH IT.”
Mr. Harry R. Boulton, of Pfahlert s Hotel,
Wynyard-square, says “ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the excellence of Clausen’s Cham-
pagne Lager Beer, which I have handled since
taking the above hotel. I am in every way pleased
with it, and for freedom from sediment, and excel-
lence of flavor, I have every confidence in recom-
mending it to the trade and the public generally.
“ENTIRE SATISFACTION.”
Mr. Daniel Sullivan, of the Brisbane Cafe,
George-street, says : —“ Clausen’s Champagne
Lager Beer gives my patrons entire satisfaction.
For brightness, purity, and flavor I consider it un-
equalled, and every person seeking a light refresh-
ing drink, which will invigorate without intoxi-
cating, and refresh without promoting drowsiness,
should sample a bottle of Clausen’s Lager.”
“GREAT SUPERIORITY.”
Mr. G. F. Baker, proprietor of the Pastoral
Hotel, Wagga, says : —“ I have great pleasure in
bearing testimony to the great superiority of Clau-
sen’s Lager Beer. My customers approve of it, and
rarely ask for any other brand.-”
“ FAR EXCELS ANY BEER.”
Mr. Bryan Ferry, of the Advance Australia
Hotel, Newtown, Wagga, says “ I have great
pleasure indeed in testifying to the excellence of
Clausen’s Lager Beer. It is pronounced by all my
customers to far excel any beers of a like
character.”
“THE FAVORITE BRAND.”
Mr. F. L. Richardson, of the Albion Hotel,
Forbes, says “I have great pleasure in recom-
mending H. Clausen and Son’s brand of Lager
Beer. It is the favorite brand with my customers,
and during hot months the demand for it is large.”
“EXCELLENT QUALITY AND PURITY.”
Mr. Charles Stock well, of the Freemasons’ Hotel,
Molong, says “ I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the excellent quality and purity of Clau-
sen’s Champagne Lager Beer. It has given great
satisfaction to the numerous customers visiting my
hotel.”
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Bros,
limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co., Alltand Co.
Burrows and Gleeson, S. Bennett and Co., Lucas
Bros., Cornellion and Co., R. Butcher and Co., J. T.
and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell, Wilson and A
Thompson and Co., C. Bath and Co., Cooper,
Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co., A. Rowan and
Co., Tucker and Co.. Stewart and Co., H. Harry
Petersham, and others.


The Referee
The Glebe Rowing Club have made ad-
ditions to both their club buildings and rules, the
former consisting of a new story, and the latter of
a clause that will in the end lead to the old, old
story for some poor devil. The clause is that card-
playing will bo allowed till midnight on every
night bar Sunday. The Club had a leg-in for the
Junior Cup rowed for at the recent Association
Regatta, and another win would have placed the
handsome trephy in their permanent possession,
bat they were unable to raise a crew, and rumour
has it that the card-playing had a big hand in
that. Card-playing till midnight is more calcu-
-1 ited to turn out a champion stone-broker than a
champion sculler.
* * *
One would have thought that the
bourhood which claims the brothers Sparks for
residents would have turned out something good
in the pugilistic line, but the three Gannon's
Forest men, whom we have, so far, seen perform,
are the veriest duffers that ever donned a mitten.
Pickering, who hails from that classic spot, on
Wednesday night met the much talked of Jack
Donohoe, but the fight would have made a good
show for a nigger minstrel entertainment. For
five rounds Donohoe chased his man round the
ring, punishing the air severely with vicious right-
handers, when Pickering lay down and went to
sleep with the determination not to be disturbed
for at least ten seconds. We are at a loss to know
where Donohoe got his reputation from, for we
could put our hands on some half-dozen men of
his weight who could wipe the floor with him.
The best set-to at Foley’s on Saturday night was
b3tween Molloy and Tom Taylor. Molloy lias
i mproved vastly since his residence in Sydney, and
J ickson’s protege, Taylor, showed, in addition to
his reputation as a hard hitter, that he is pos-
sessed of good science.
* *
Dick Mathews, the Yankee boxer, who
s ,vept Maoriland and more recently fought some
desperate battles in ’lrisco, is, we heai, hack in
New Zealand. Mathews is the only man in the
colonies likely to tackle the present champion.
Jackson hut the Yank must he a vastly improved
man to’stand any show. Mathews, when in
Sydney had a quiet trial with Jackson in Siiosex-
street, when Jackson soon proved himself master
of the situation.
* * *
The twelfth annual regatta of the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club came off at the Branch
oa Saturday last, when the amateur champion,
W. G. Brett, added the senior double sculls and
smior fours to liis many other victories, the
f ,Vmer in conjunction with W. G. Charles, and the
litter with S. A. Kemp, W. G. Charles, and J. O.
Trimble Mr. Brett is certainly a wonder at the
game. Some 10 years ago he started rowing at an
a T e when nine amateurs out of ten give it up, and
he has stuck hard at it ever since, we suppose
winning more trophies than any aquatic amateur
the world has yet produced.
* * *
A Queensland correspondent asks us to
give the height and weight of Mr. George
the champion amateur boxer—the general im-
pression being in the country seems to be that he is
a big fellow who boxes his men down with brute
s'rength Mr. Seale, who, by the way, has never
been bested in a Ect-to with either amateur or pro-
fessional, stands oft. BJin., and weighs mnm lOst.
101 b in condition. In his clothes he does not look
to weigh much over 10 stone., and if our corres-
nondent went into a room with a score of average
men in it, on the look-out for a row, he would for
a certainty pick upon the guileless-lookirg youth
who revels in the title of amateur champion.
* * *
The recent yachting trials in America,
deep keel versus beam and light draught, are to
be continued on a small scale in Australian waters.
Mr Jewett’s American importation, the J. C.
Poyen, which is said to have performed well on
her native waters, has been matched for a sweep-
stakes of £2O a boat with the Sao and Assegai,
over a course, we understand, down to Broken
Bey and back. The J. C. Poyen is the true type
of American skimming-dish, and, should she prove
successful, may work a change in the colonial
style of yacht.
Murrumbateman has had its kttle prize-
fight, and the principals were pounc d upon by
the police, red-handed in every sense of the word.
I r started “all along o’ Eliza,” and the men
f ought for a small stake and the best gir l . Police
Court result: A month and three weeks for the
principals respectively, and the re\e me increased
some £9O in fines from the spectators. The most
agonising part ia that one of the onlookers has
in’en ambitioning a J.P.-ship, but instead of get-
ting to the bench has by this affair merely attained
—the dock. „ ...
*
To see Donohue and Pickering pocket
their fists-full of bank notes at Foley’s the other
night for boxing five rounds was enough to raise
old ‘‘ Boruk ” out of his grave. Who was Boruk ?
Well Boruk was the trial horse of the good old
pugilistic days. If a man was brought in with a
name from the provinces he was matched for a
tenner or so against Boruk, who would either
smash him or be smashed, perhaps both, out of all
semblance to humanity. If Boruk won, the pro-
vincial's light was out, so far as the championship
honours were concerned, but the man who could
beat the trial horse Ava 3 looked upon as worth
following up. Ye gods ! If Boruk could see how
they earn their “ sugar ’ in these degenerate days !
Champion Beach left England for “ home’
by the Lusitania on October 14. He received a
great ovation on leaving, and will, of course, have
a big reception on his arrival here. And this re-
minds us—we don’t hear of any preparations fc r
the reception of the Australian Eleven !
I The Totalisator Bill squeezed through the
S.A. Assembly on its third reading, and the in-
strument of gambling is in a fair way to get
another trial. Among the half-and-half opponents
of the totalisator was a genius who moved that it
be used only for weight for age races. A truly
smart idea this, considering that it is in these
events that the backer is least at the mercy of the
wily “ book.” It often happens that over a handi-
cap with 20 starters the metallicians offer such
starvation prices that they can bet fairly round
and still have half the field running for their
volumes. In such cases the machine would come
as a boon and a blessing to takers of the odds.
But wi h ordinary weight-for-agc races the betting
is very close, and the margin of profit left tor the
“books” is very little more than would bo de-
ducted as commission by the machinists.” If the
S. A. Bill becomes law the fielders will shake the
dust of the colony from their number fifteens, and
depart for Victoria. There bookmaking is classi-
fied as a native industry, and duly protected. The
“ sheeny” interest is quite strong enough to over-
turn any Ministry that ventured to interfere with
Joe Thompson and his disciples.
* * *
Jem Mace, now in his 56th year, offers to
I box three rounds with any man in England.
* * *
There is a certain amount of coolness
between Tom Hales and Colley since the Caulfield
Guineas. Hales remains under, the impression
that Colley expressed regret for having forced
Volcano on to the rails, and Colley is quite posi-
tive that the Archer of Australia suffers from
hallucinations. It is almost a pity that the horses
couldn't give evidence before the stewards.
# * *
George Lohmann, the crack Surrey profes-
sional bowler, who is one of the best all round
THE LATE DR W. F. M WKENZIE.
players in the English Eleven who are shortly to
visit Sydney, is a London tram-conductor.
#
The members of the Sirocco Cricket Club
Eleven, who hail.from Camperdown, Sydney, are
all deaf and dumb. It will be interesting to know
how the wicketkeeper can tell a snick.
* * *
The fourth estate will have the benefit of
p ... Mr S
the services of that illustrious truncuer, ivir. ».
Weai'nc, i„ their m.toh
havmg secured a berth on one of the Sydney
evening papeis. * *
A few days ago some friends of a Sydney
gentleman, who fancies himself as a horse-
man, bet him a dinner that he could not ride over
the Rand wick steeplechase-course. The bet was
accepted and duly won ; it was also paid, which
was, perhaps, the more remarkable circumstance
of the two. Some years ago a similar wager'was
made in Western Victoria, but m that instance
the layers of odds came on the ground m a spring-
cart, and just as the rider was aeout to start t ey
drew out a coffin which they placed in a handy
spot, while from the bottom of the vehicle
emerged a mourner m deep black, with crape band
and weeper round his hat. The result ot the race
is not on record.
* * *
The story goes that on the Jewish Day of
Atonement a very “ long-winded” client of a cer-
tain Melbourne bookmaker waited upon the
metallician at the synagogue and offered payment
of his little outstanding wager. Thc bookie
declined to touch the filthy lucre upon the holy
day whereupon the client calmly buttoned up his
pocket-flap over the cheque. And having once
tendered the amount he now refuses to pay, and
refers Mossy to the V.R.C. Committee.
Although this last Australian team of
alleged cricketers has made a very poor show in
the field the gate-money is as handsome as ever.
At Brighton alone the team pocketed £433 as their
share of the profits. So the much-defeated ones
will have plenty of sweet consolation.
* * *
Pious Aucklanders stood aghast at the
goings-on of the unregenerate Sydney footballers
during their visit to New Zealand’s northern
capital. The hoys, instead of remembering the
Sabbath day to keep it holy, preferred going fish-
ing to going to church, thereby robbing the col-
lection-plate of many threepenny-bits, not only
their own donations but the donations of those
who would have gone to church if the footballers
had gone. Some people are so constituted that
they never go to worship unless some special at-
traction is thrown in. Auckland stands unique
for shoddy holiness of that description,
* * *
Messrs. M‘Donnell, Moses, and Gregory
have been appointed a select committee by the
N.S.W. Cricket Association. An attempt, we
believe, will be made to have this decision re-
scinded, the Warwick Club being the moving
spirit.
, * * *
The following dates have been fixed upon
for the intercolonial cricket matches this season :
—ln Melbourne, on 27tji December and following
days ; and in Sydney, the 22nd January and fol-
lowing days.
* * *
The champion short-distance N.S.W.
i aeing track is at Tam worth, where six furlong 3
seem to make one mile.. If it is true that this
course is two furlongs short, all mile and over
races that have taken place on it should appar-
ently be struggled for again, as clause 109 of the
A J.C. rules distinctly says “If a race has been
run by all the horses at wrong weights, or a wrong
distance, .... the Committee shall order
it to be run again at such time on the same day as
they may appoint.”
The Referee asserts that Beach's record
“ upsets all that has been done in the last few r
yeaio,” and describes his style as “ old-fashioned
but most effective,” differing from that of Ilanlan
and the American school in that the weight is put
into the stroke most when the oar is at right
angles to the boat, while with Teenier, Ross, and
Co., the'emphasis come at the finish of the stroke.
It is interesting to read such criticism, but it is
worthy of note that no London writer has yet set
himself to describe our William’s peculiar and re-
markable beauty.
Of horscracing in Australia “ Pendragon ”
writes much in recent numbers of the Referee.
And it is in the main highly commendatory. Caul-
field course he declares to be like Epsom or San-
down with all the improvements and conveniences
in which the latter grounds are wanting. In
ratecple-chasinghe asserts that England as compared
with the colonies comes off second-best. After
describing the stone walls and paling fences at
Fiemington, he .-.ays: “It is no exaggeration
whatever to say that for height and solidity we
have nothing like these fences in England, or even
in Ireland. They are to my eye3 —and I have
seen mo3t of the cross-country work that is worth
seeing at home—little short of appalling. . . .
I am free to admit that we are right out of it with
the Australians across a country.” But of the
shape of Victorian courses he writes in much less
complimentary terms, assorting that even at
Fiemington the home turn is too near home, and
the curves at Caulfield at the time of his visit and
Moonee Valley too sharp for safety, and winds up
his homily with the perhaps unnecessarily strong
remark that, “ To kill a jockey, or even two, in
Australia is not regarded as any very extraordin-
ary performance; but, then, in Australia they
have not as yet got to the lengths of jockeyolatry,
or anything like them, which are current in Eng’-
land.”
* * *
Lawson, the coloured pug., now of Bris-
bane, is in active training for his match with the
list. Stanley. Lawson himself is only 10st. 101 b.,
which is a few pounds heavier than he has ever
trained to for any previous mill. A little difficulty
was interposed in this matter by the interference
of the police, who charge 1 Stanl-y with conspiring
to bring about a prize-fight, and at latest dates the
case stood adjourned—adjourned probably to allow
of the mill being brought off in the meantime.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
From 10s. to 12s. per week is the rate for
sugar-plantation hands in Queensland The
Brisbane unemployed scorned the free breakfast
provided by the Blue Ribbon mission. They
“haven’t fallen so low” yet At Bris-
bane a prisoner about to be flogged struck the
hangman heavily in the face and chased him
aH around the yard. When he was tied up,
though, Jack Ketch “ took it out of him” with a
mighty and vengeful swish Mr. Noble, the
temperance lecturer, is addressing crowded audi-
ences in Melbourne. The good that man does is
something extraordinary. On a recent occasion
the meeting—with one solitary exception —con-
sisted entirely of bluc-ribboner.v. The solitary ex-
ception was “ chucked out ” for interrupting the
lecturer A reformed M. P. asks : “ How would
it catch the people’s fancy if instead of celebrat-
ing the N.S.W. centenary by the creation of an
Exhibition Palace the Government were to build
an Inebriate Asylum for lion, members of Parlia-
ment only ? ”
* * *
When news of Alexander of Bulgaria's
deposition reached England, Henry of Batfenberg
packed up with the idea of starting out and help-
ing his brother. However, as he hadn’t the train-
faro about him, he found, himself compelled to
stay in London Some of Dickens’works have
been translated into 20 living languages. That is
fame. Queen Victoria’s last book has iust been
translated into Gaelic. That is grovel Bigger
and Co. r.ow say to the evicted Irish: “Go
no the workhouses. Your landlords have
to find seven-eighths of the poor-rate.”
28 Chinese gamblers arrested at Charters Towers
were jammed into two cells, each Sft by 10ft, and
kept I'or.the night there. This was bad, but lliey
were judicially looted of £l6O next day, which was
considerably worse The follow ing are some of
the Queen’s servants, who arc cheerfully supported
by the British taxpayer, although not one man in
a thousand has the sligli'est idea what their func-
tions are : —The Exemps or Exons, the Clerk of
the cheque, the Gentleman Usher’s Quarterly and
Daily Waiters, the Axe-Kceper, the Haibinger <f
the Baud of Gentlemen at /rms, the Yeomen of
the Guard...... Mr. Gladstone.it is stated (on the
authority of his son Herbert) puts away several
gallons of alcohol in the course of a year. V hat
a Gbaud Old Man he is, to be sure ! M. Chev
reul, the great French chemist, now over 100
years of age, is about the first scientific centena-
rian on rcccrd In A.p. 1022 Boucbau,
Bishop of Worms, one of the most learned of pre-
lates, died. The inventory of his lordship’s goods
(are yez listening, Bi«hop Barry?) comprised a
shirt, an iron chain which served him as a belt, and
three deniers of money “The J3r h Somerset
Regiment, now in Burmah, has lost 100 men from
fever! Such is Jingo “ g10ry.”...A London writer
recently passed in the street three tiny bare footed
children. Said Baby No. 1 : “My farver gib3me
liver for dinner.” Baby No. 2:“ My muvvcr
won't let my farver gib me liver for dinner, cos
it makes me ill.” Baby No. 3 : “My farver don t
gib me liver for dinner, ’cos he ain't got no
money.”
The Ballarat Courier says that Norton s
slanderers had better leave him alone.
Wind and rain discounted, but could not
spoil the Waverley Flower Fair, which was fittingly
wound up with a concert engineered by Mr. A.
Huenerbein on Tuesday night last. The sta 3
throughout the show were adorned with ev m
mo e than the usual skill, and the insinuating
young bandits, without whose beauty no sue
affair can exist, were charming in their cruelty.
Among the most noticeable of many attractive
stalls were those under the presidency of M rs -
Watkin, Mrs. Guest, Mrs. Butcher, Mrs. Brewer,
and Mrs. Martin.
The following letter comes to us from a
N.S.W. Western town“ Editor Bulletin.—I=*> 1 =*>
—What do you think of this for a bit of °PP r ? >
sion? I am a gold-miner and a ‘ Cousin Ja° ’
and have been working over a year and a ha »
with about 40 other miners, at a gold mine n
here. The manager keeps a general store, anc
the men don’t deal with him they soon haW
walk. He charges from 25 to 50 per cent, m
than anybody else, and a 3 he takes care
nearly all the men he employs are married and v
families, you will see that he makes a pretty S
thing out of them. He re is a copy of a letter
manager sent me :
“ ‘ Sir. .—I notice your account for the las a( ,
weeks only amounts to £2 6s. Id., which caused me to ■ j gr
the book and see the class of goods you get. I see i t 0
the past eight months you have only purchased to
the extent of 7s. 6J. which shows your rank mgrata
me, the largest shareholder in the mine, that nnas y * or
stant employment, a comfortable home, and uecessa , g
your wife and family. Ido not wish you to spend one
penny more than you require, by no means; out I «
am not going to find you in work and moi ~y to spe g
those in who do not assist either you or m ~o Uf
So, if you cannot see your way to assist those that ass {
you had better look for work from those you tea
money with as soon as you like.—Yours, g j. j
I have since been discharged, and am no^.,L e n.
ing employment to support my wife and chi
I have committed no fault, and I am sure, sir.
will agree with me that I am, unfortunately,
tim to oppression and tyranny.”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal—" Billee Taylor ” p. 14
Alhambra Musio Hall—Minstrelsy „
Towx Hall, Randwiok— Lynch Family Bell
ringers ~ „
Academy of Music—‘‘Bric-a-Brac’’
Royal Standard Theatre— “ Octoroon” ,15
New Opera House— "lngomar” „
“ Ingomar,” is being greeted nightly b;
rowded audiences at Sydney Opera, House, and
well deserves the success it lias attained. Th
scene of the story is laid in the Greek colony
Massilia, and there we find Parthenia, th
heroine, who looks as lovely as a hourl amid lie
sordid surroundings. Her parents, however, ai
poor, and as mean as two contemptible Greek
well can be. They resolve to mate their daughte
with the miser Polydor, and presently that ind
vidual crawls in to press his suit—a bald, broker
backed, flat-cheated spectre, uncertain on his legs
grovelling, grasping, vinegary, vicious as an ole
blue mule, and with a hundred odious vices wri
ten on his ugly countenance. He is repulsed wit
scorn, and when Parthenia a few moments late
receives news that her father has been capturec
by the barbarians he lets out the wrath of hi
mean dog-soul in jeers which nerve the girl to
desperate resolve. She starts for the mountain
and gives herself up as a hostage for the paymen
of the prisoner’s ransom. In the barbarian camp
however, the Greek maid is in unplea3ant-lookin
company. A dozen squat savages are playin
S3ven-up or some such game on the grass, anc
when a dispute arises one of them straightwa
heavo3 up a huge battle-axe—an iron panoram
fixed on a telegraph-pole—and starts to brain hi
opponent. But Parthenia’s beauty and fearless
n?ss gradually tame even the fiercest of the crowt
—the chief Ingomar, a huge, leggy ruffian wit
a horse-laugh, who goes about armed witl
sword and spear, and a vast saucepan-lic
which passes for a shield, and at last he tells hi
love in tones that are calculated to tea
up the neighbouring vegetables by the
root. But he, too, is repulsed with scorn
and in his Gallic fury he shrieks out that h
could tear-r-r-r-r-r-r himself with rage. He even
draws his sword on the captive girl, but when hi
followers assail her his mood changes, and h
pounds the whole blood-stained, cow-stealing
seven-up gang in her defence. Ingomar is rapidly
undergoing a change. He no longer enjoys
murder, or cares to paint the country red as o
old, and finally he turns Greek himself, and settle
down in Massilia to woo Parthenia for his bride
Here Polydor is in his way, and the miser has be
come even more limp and slimy and mean anc,
fungus grown than of old ; he is aided and abetted
too, by Parthenia’s mother, an unspeakable ok
Greek cat of the dark ages, and he calls in the aic
of the Timarch or Governor, an individual whose
attire consists chiefly of a helmet and a pair o
spidery legs. It is gratifying to see, however
t!iat all this star combination of hungry villainy
is bowled out at last ; Polydor is hit on the heac
by a chunk of retributive justice, and ejected
from the town; the sour Greek female is extin
guished, and Ignomar wins his bride and rises to
the rank of an ancient K.C.M.G,
* * *
In the character of Parthenia Miss Essie
Jenyns is perfect. Her charming face and beauti
ful figure suit the sweeping Greek robes in which
she is attired, and it is no wonder that Ingomar
yields to the fascination of her innocence, her
dauntless courage, and her overflowing joyous-
ness. She was called before the curtain at the
close of every act, and the ovation she received
was well earned. Mr. W. J. Holloway was better
as Ingomar than a 3 Romeo. Except when he
wanted to “ tear-r-r-r-r-r-r-r himself ” in the third
act, he made a manly and bulky barbarian, though
he shook tho landscape a little when he took to
running. Polydor was played by Mr. Charles
Holloway, and was depicted as the meanest Greek
skunk on this side of creation. He also wanted
to “ tear r-r-r,” and now and then he tore in real
earnest, and when he did so he forgot his aged
rheumatism and became a rather too agile skunk
for his years. As regards the other characters it
is only recestary to remark that the Timarch did
a stately goose-step throughout, and the scanty
nature of his wardrobe showed it off to perfection;
that the ordinary barbarians were a hang-dog
crew, and that the male Greeks were, without
•xception, individuals whose small and con-
temptible souls were not good enough to be stood
on by a hog.
AL AA.
'7V' 'TV “tv-
“The Octoroon, ” which is now on the
boards at Sydney Royal Standard, is a tragedy
which seems always to take well with an Aus-
tralian audience. It contains the elements which
make up a good play—in the estimation of the pit
especially. There is the usual young female in
distress and the good-looking young man who
would give his life to save her, but who, after all,
does not Burst one button off his pants in his
efforts on her behalf ; there is an atrocious villain
out of whom solid hunks of blasphemy and evil
might be dug with a hoe ; and a spidery, comic
saint who is very handy with his knife in an
emergency; there are a fight, a murder, and a
burning steamer, and there are a number of
heavy-booted sympathisers who plod across the
stage chewing tobacco and say they’ll be darned
all to blazes if it ain’t an all fired shame,
f lO - All these things help to make up a great
tragedy, but “ The Octoroon ” is not a great
tragedy all the same. Even the united efforts of
the long withered Yankee and the clay-daubed
tnrlian cannot lift it out of the region of sickly
sentiment, and a barbarous outrage has been per-
petrated by introducing a party of step-dancing
mggers in tights, who do grotesque hops while
the heart of the heroine is breaking. The man
who is responsible for this insult to humanity
would play euchre in a tomb and
chalk his score on the corpse. After
witnessing the performance of the niggers we
gave way to a feeling of calm despair ; even when
the great scene in the swamp came on and we
noticed thai the canes waved at the roots instead
of the tops it failed to arouse us, and we hardly
cared a cent whether the Indian or the white man
went undermost in the fight.
* * *
The descent from “Faust” to “The
Octoroon ” is a tremendous one, but Mr. Dam-
pier’s fall is worse still. From Mephistopheles to
Wah-no-tee is a downward rush, compared to
which the collapse of Lucifer or of Bumble
was as nothing. The Indian, no doubt,
is an impos'ng kind of tenth-rate savage,
but regarded as a leading character, his
only attraction is that he goes into a
fight and wins. When there is a fight, we
observe, Mr. Dam pier is always in it, but it is
humiliating for an actor of his undoubted abilities
to loaf about througli three acts and say nothing
but “ wuff.” Towards the end the Indian rouses
up, and now and then he remarks “ugh ” as well,
and once, at a moment of great excitement, he
mutters “yah,” but despite this eloquence the
part is a miserable fraud. Mr. Harry Leston has
the best character as Salem Scudder, and makes a
very good Yankee, as stage Yankees go ; Jacob
M’Closky, as pourtrayed by Mr. Stoneham, is a
picturesque brute, and having said this we will
sink the rest of our sentiments till next week.
## # #
During the week “ Billee Taylor ” has
filled the bill and more than half the Theatre
Royal, Sydney. Conscientiously, we can’t say that
the opera is worthy of the house in which it is
played, the artistes who are engaged, or the
audiences it draws. Current report asserts that
it takes nine tailors to make a man, but it would
take about 19 “ Billee Taylors” to make a comic
opera. The piece, too, has an evil habit of getting
worse and more uninteresting every day as it
totters on its unmelodious way, and the indi-
viduals forming the “ exceptional cast ” by which
it is played begin to look as if they would like to
cast the dry bones of the production into the sea.
No one but a Stephens would have dreamt of
making William Taylor the hero of an opera, and
we don’t think even he would have done it if
Solomon had not goaded him to the act, yet we
hardly like to think so badly of any man as to lay
this accusation at Solomon’s door. Perhaps after
all it was the hand of Fate
which forced them to it.
#AA- AA.
'7Y* -7V-
“ Bric-a-Brac,” which
is now infesting the
Sydney Academy, is a
scenic agony which
almost defies criticism.
We have seen a good
many things in the course
of our career, hut never
aught like this. We have
viewed the grief of a
MEPHISTO ON THE EYE OF HIS DEPARTURE FROM THE STANDARD GIVING
DIRECTIONS TO THE BAGGAGE-MAN WHERE TO FORWARD HIS LUGGAGE.
Barcoo nigger when he took his first wash, and
there was subdued dramatic action in his contor-
tions, but in “ Bric-a-Brae” the action is only re-
motely dramatic, so the parallel does not hold
good. We have noted the wild surprise of a dog
when hit with a saucopanful of boiling water,
and we tried to think of the shriek that dog would
have given if he had been hit with “ Bric-a-
Brac ” instead, but we failed to realise what the
blood-curdling sound would have been like. Then
we endeavoured to picture the expression of pain
on Mr. Rickards’ face when he first found out
what sort of thing Mr. Garnet Walch had written
expressly for him (vide advertisement), and we
strove hard to paint on the broad page of our
mind Mr. Walch’s look of sorrow when he learned
what Mr. Rickards had done with his production,
but the broad page was not large enough to hold
the sketch. Mr. Itickards, as usual, acts seven
characters, and after watching him we reckon the
old Scripture injunction does not apply. To forgive
him unto seventy times seven would mean condon
mg 490 of these characters altogether and we are
unequal to the task. The other six members 01
the company divide 16 individuals among them
and there is joy, of a sort, enough for 1600.
Brick-a-Bat ” will go ahead until further notice.
## # #
The new programme of the Chicago
Minstrels, at Sydney Gaiety, is not much worse
Ilian the last, and the last programme was not
less entertaining thin a lirst-class dog-fight.
Mr. Whitworth now sings “ Give me a home by
the sea, and we devoutly hope he may get it —say
by the Dead Sea or the Caspian; Miss Millie Her-
bert has got a new stentorian boom in which she
says “ I dreamt, my little boy, of thee,” and Harry
Cremar warbles about “ Violets dipped in Dew.”
Carrots dipped in gin are better, but perhaps
Harry never tried them. Some of these are
fully equal to the shriek a cat givo3 when run
over by a tram-car, and others are a little better
still. An exception must be made, however, in
favour of Miss Violet Kingsley, who is a redeem-
ing feature in this visitation of Providence. The
second part of the programme was propped up to
some extent by her “ Silver Rhino,” but she was
incapable of supporting the weight of “ The Maid
of the Mill ’ and other gems which boro down the
performance in spite of her best attempts.
*# # #
I he Lynch Family of Bellringers are now
commencing their last week in Sydney, and pro-
mise to draw well to the end. On Thursday and
Friday they perform at Randwick and Botany
respectively. On Monday, the 25th, they will
turn up at Ashfleld, and on Tuesday they propose
to appear at Balmain, and make life a thing of
woe. Unless somebody kills them they will visit
Parramatta and Granville later in the week,
'TV* 'TV'
George Darrell did not exactly lift the
dramatic scalp of Brisbane during hi 3 season
there. r lhe people of that city do not seem anxious
to come to the scratch for a double dose of Darrell.
Ihey are patient enough when George is playing
someone else s drama, or oven when his plays are
wrestled with by a cast which does not include
the versatile one, but the actor-author combina-
tion is rather too much. Consequently, “ Back
from the Grave” was bad biz. His benefit
under big patronage, was well attended,
but then George’s dramas were not on
the bill. Engineered by H. Neville Montague,
who is advertised as ‘-Journalist, former'y editor of
Sydney Punch ” (what glory !)—“ ‘ Biron,’ Town and
Country Journal,’ &c. , &c. Heinrich Kohler appeared
at the Gaiety (till then called the Academy of Music,
the change of title being a compliment to H. Neville
Montague, formerly editor of Sydney Punch, &c., &c.),
before crowds that were not absolutelj r immense, and has
since gone North.
## # #
Henry C. Jarrett, the well-known American
theatrical manager, has just died. It is related that
when he took l ncle Tom’s Cabin ”to Europe—the first
(ime the play had been in England—Horace Weston,
the negro minstrel and banjoist
was one of the attractions.
While they were playing in
London, Weston—who is a real
negro and not a burned cork
specimen—seemed to arouse a
great deal of interest on the
part of the ladies in the best
society, and they used to write
sweet notes to him and entertain
him. One day Weston showed
Mr. Jarrett a lot of the perfumed
notes which he had received
from the English ladies. Jarrett’s
quick eye spied a sheet of paper
with the royal coat of arms and
the date of Windsor Castle. He
quickly seized it and read it. It
was a command from the Queen’s
secretary to Weston to come to
Windsor, and play before her
Majesty. “My God!” ex-
claimed Jarrett, “when did this
come?” ‘’’Bout tree weeks
ago,” said the negro. “ Good
heavens ! man, why didn’t you
show it to me ? Don’t you know
what this is?” demanded .Jarrett.
“No, boss ; I ’sposed it was one
o’ dem ma-h letters.” “ Why,
you idiot, this is a command
to appear before the Queen.
You have thrown away the
biggest chance you’ll ever get.
It would have been thousands
of dollars for all of us.” And
so it M ould. But it was too late.
.A/.
‘7V' ‘TV* 'TV*
The famous contralto, Al-
boni, now living in retirement
on the Continent, according to
a letter from Dion Boueicault,
weighs 4001 b., and is very lame.
“ I sat near her in the salle a
manger and can testify to her
having an immense appetite.
. . . But the illustrious can-
tatrice had only to open her
mouth to cease to be a woman.
She became ?. great church organ.”
Prof. Chaincy, the spiritualistic lecturer
from Amurrika, is endeavouring to found a
Psychic School for Children in Melbourne. We
don’tknow whether the doctor’s treatment includes
a spoonful of jam after the physic, hut otherwise
the little scholars are certain to play “ the wag ”
pretty freely. There is nothing, though, like
taking to spiritualism early in life. Train up a
child in the way he should go, and when he grows
up he can write ghostly messages on a slate, and
float around the room with a table on his head.
As regards the Professor, we fancy that his corres-
pondence with dead ’uns is limited, but he is in
active communication with the angels. ’Twas in
a trance that a heavenly star descended upon his
forehead, and a celestial voice preached him a
spiritualist sermc*n. We know this is right, be-
cause we have heard with our own ears the
angelic message. Alas! the doctor reads it from
a manuscript. We expected to see him put a
halo on his head, and repeat the blessed words
with his eyes shut.
## # #
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault have made
a promising start at the Melbourne Opera House.
There is a decided air of all-round high-classisli-
ness about their show. The company is clever,
the scenic artist appears to be a man of taste like
ourselves, and the orchestra is under the manage-
ment of Mr. F. Stanislaus, whose name guarantees
good work. The overture, in fact, is an important
feature in the bill of fare. ‘‘Turned Up,” with
which the B.’s are opening their campaign, is t,
three-act farce very frosh from London. It draws
there and will draw here. It abounds in comic
situations and “suggestion.” The latter is so
lightly handled by the principals that one forgets
to bo shocked. One laughs the laugh of innocence
—such as innocence is nowadays—from start to
very nearly the finish. Nevertheless, “Turned
Up” is neither witty nor improving. It is just a
success. The new people, whom Messrs. B. and
B. have imported under a yoar's engagement, all
find favour. Mr. E. W. Boyce, as an old sea
captain with enlarged views on connubiality, is
excellent. The Melbourne people havo “cot-
toned” to him right oil’, and they don’t know half
his good qualities yet. Boyce, in a “ break-
down,” is, or used to be, very superior indeed. In
Mr. Walter Everard we ha,\ea jeunpremier who is
likely to take up a prominent position in many
maidens’ dreams. With a good appearance and
easy, rattling style Mr. E. combines something so
like talent that it is difficult to tell the difference,
from a dress-circlc seat. Miss E. Bonier fills in a
small part with the finish to bo expected of a lady
whoso name was very familiar to the ears of
London playgoers some years fago. Of the other
now-chums in this company, Mr. George Lash
Gordon deserves notice as being an author-actor—
like George Darrell, donchcrknow. Mr. Gordon’s
part in “ Turned Up ” doesn’t test his capabilities
as an actor, but, we are inclined to jump to the
conclusion that he writes better than lie acts.
The question must remain in abeyance until one
of his works is produced. Mr. Bobert Brough, in
an ultra-farcical character, is popular as ever, and
Miss Trevelyan playing with more “go” than she
has previously exhibited, relieves the prevailing
absurdity of the scene with some clever touches of
comedy. “Turned Up,” thanks to its company,
looks like lasting for another two or three weeks.
This, too, in face of the fact that business is un-
commonly quiet at the other Melbourne houses.
#* # #
Mr. J. B. Greville’s youngest son was as-
sisting his papa at the Melbourne Itoyal last week
in the “ Lancashire Lass.” Papa Greville took a
benefit as “A party by the name of Johnson,” and
the boy gave a first-class rendering—strangely
suggestive of Mr. Harry Taylor in voice and
maimer—of “Spotfy.” Between the acts Mr. J.
G. informed his friends and admirers that he still
regarded himself as a promising juvenile, and was
about to run over to Yurrup on the spree. We
hope he won’t get into bad company, and allow
himself to be led astray, that we do. By the way,
we have heard the “ party by the name of Johnson”
referred to as old Greville. Perish the kindly
spoken adjective! Mr. Greville, it appears, rejoices
in the possession of a father several years older
than himself, and vtill in a most excellent state of
preservation.
#* # #
“The Candidate” failed to catch on at
Melbourne Bijou, and barring favourable press
notices, Messrs. St. Maur and Maltby are not
meeting with much encouragement. Now why is
this thus ? The present season here terminates in
a fortnight, and on November 6th the hoods will
clap their hands, and the hills be joyful together.
Minnie Palmer appears, and the gilded youth will
roll up as one dude. By the way, little yarns con-
taining reference to the unconventional vivacity
of Miss Minnie, are already in circulation. When
she really arrives upon the scene we shall be re-
galed with some delicious lies.
.A/, -A/,
■7V* TV TV •7V*
Speaking of the revival of “ Uncle Dick’s
Darling” at the Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne,
the Herald says: “The advantage of a lady
manageress will be apparent in the more natural
style of acting among the young ladies of melo-
drama.” Is that intended as “jam” for the
manageress, or a slap for young ladies?
Anyway, it is ghastly rubbish. We shall expect
to hear next that the personal influence of the
Triumvirate is distinctly visible in Mr. Elton’s
impersonation of Ben Barnacle.
-AA. -M, AA. -Ai.
'/T 'A* '7V* •7Y*
Dion Boucicault has been sounding his
young wife’s praises to a Pali. Mali, interviewer.
Wonder if she reciprocates the gushing compli-
ments!
## # #
A very startling and novel entertain*
ment was advertised in Wellington, N.Z., when
the mail left. Sixteen Maoris were placarded to
appear at the Theatre Boyal to dance a native
dance, dressed, as stated in the advertisement, in
the “ancient Maori garb, which the white people
have never yet seen.” This is sure to draw a
crowded house, as there are several charming
wahines in the company, and when dressed in the
way indicated by the advertisement old father
Adam and Worth combined could not possibly
find fault with the fit. We would back Adam,
however, to be the best judge of the style.
'7v* 'A* 'A*
The latest about Dewhurstis that he played
Banquo at London Olympie in a performance
wherein Mrs. Conover was Lady Macbeth. Alice
Lingard still gets pretty pars from the Lendon
papers H. M. Stanley, the African explorer, is
giving his “ How I found Livingstone ” lectures
in London during the present month, and is to
start on an American tour on November 18th. It
is on the cards that he may then come on to Aus-
tralia A series of Madrigal concerts, begin-
ning on November 2nd and managed by Mr. J. p.
Needham, is to be given at Melbourne. A double
quartet of artistes has been secured for the show,
Work at the new theatre, Queen-street, Bris-
bane, has been temporarily suspended At|
the Bananaland capital George Bignold andl
the most fascinating Bishop that has ever been
in that city are doing good to splendid biz. with
“ Called Back.” Farley has been much less suc-
cessful with grand opera. The dew of “ Carmen ”
was congealed by its chilly reception—our delicate
way of saying that the piece was a comparative
frost,
A bill for amalgamating the two branches
of the legal profession has been rejected by the
Victorian Legislative Council. The fine old
crusted Tories who constitute that Senate argued
that the fact of one party acting as attorney and
barrister would not benefit the public, for law
would be no cheaper. Likely enough. We never
heard of a man deriving any advantage from being
robbed by one man, instead o»f by two.


Pepper
and
Salt
By some inscrutable dispensation of Pro-
vidence the Australian parson who has retired
from active Sheol always takes to journalism, and
by another dispensation he always seem 3 to be> a
failure in his new profession. _ The eloquent indi-
vidual who used to discourse so brilliantly in
Bethel about the left-hand thief, does not shine in
a capacity where people can contradict him. l He
is too apt to fall back on his old familiar argument
and tell the man who disagrees with him about
tuppence that he will be d d, and when he gets
riled he mixes up so much ox-gall with his ink
that people are inclined to fancy at times that he
has put the whole ox into one bottle. In Queens-
land, since the Ist October seven clerical editors
have apologised abjectly for ferocious attacks
made on private citizens; one has apologised
twice over ; one is hiding in a coal-cellar on ac-
count of a Philistine with a cow-hide who is
roosting on his fence waiting for him to come out;
and another has gone away disguised as a
drunkard, and his return is anxiously awaited by
an Irishman who says that his own mother won t
know him when the excitement is over. Oui
statistics regarding N.S.W. are not yet completed,
but we hope to publish them within a fortnight,
A few years ago Major Atkinson —a heart-
rending military clod who passes for a statesman
in N.Z.—had a striking inspiration on the subject
of mixed races. He pointed out in the Assembly
at Wellington that the 5000 Chinese then in the
The following extract re Sunday football is j
from the Essendon (Vic.) Chronicle. To be
fully appreciated, it requires to be read slowly by
a cherubic Scotch individual with a fearful cold
in his doze :
“We never knew a man. woman, or club prosper who violated
the seventh day, and the Hotham first twenty can trace their
fast series of defeats to breaking a commandment whose
power is beyond the influence of puny man.”
Let us snuffle with a great and holy snuff. The
Hotham first twenty has offended the football
department of Providence and can’t kick straight
in consequence ; when a scrimmage is on, the law
and the prophets sit upon them and squash them
down, and when a member of the gang tries a run
he trips over the wreck of the Mosaic dispensation
and rolls over and great is the flop thereof. With
the whole solar system and a million systems be
sides to guide and control, the supreme power,
according to the Chronicle, spends its time
watching twenty mean and skinny boys kicking a
bladder covered with hide and takes a small re
venge on them by making it bounce the wrong way.
In the good old times it would have been considered
sufficient to send these paltry sinners into ever-
lasting Sheol, but now things are changed, and as
a punishment for their offence they are not allowed
to kick in this world and are eternally kicked by a
red-hot demon in the next. Things are getting
very, very hot for the Sabbath-breaker.
** * *
colony .would serve to rejuvenate and improve the
Anglo-Saxon blood by being gradually absorbed
into the white population, and stated that a little
foreign admixture would prevent the colonists
degenerating, and that one per cent, of dirty
mongrel heathen was just the proportion required.
He gave a hair-raising sniff when Sir George
Grey invited him to import one per cent, of every
race under the sun, from the Frenchman to the
Digger-Indian, and thereby make the hash com-
plete, and through lack of support the Major’s
hybrid experiment came to nothing. In Queensland,
however, thismongrelising process is going on gaily
and should lead to great results. In the Wide Bay
district, for instance, three or four S. S. Islanders
club together and buy an aboriginal gin, £2 being
the regular price ; half-caste gins are also in great
demand at 60s. In the latter case the lady is per-
haps half Australian native, and half German;
she has four husbands, who may be all of
different races though lumped together as
Polynesians, and the pedigree of her sons covers
one-third of the globe. The latter grow up as in-
telligent half-castes, and probably marry girlfc of
European parentage, as a great many Polynesians
have done already, and the lineage of, the next
generation is past finding out. As for the girls of
the family, they perhaps disgrace themselves by
marrying Chinamen, or else revert to the Poly-
nesian stock and start afresh,, but if the process
goes on indefinitely a nation may arise : which,will
combine all the objectionable features of chop-
sticks, beer, and boomerang, which will swear in
10 languages and not -wash itself Jn one, and; which
will be calculated to raise even Majpr, Atkinson’s
hair in horror. With the variety available, a
hybrid of real unadulterated i beastliness should;
be produced in the course of apother century, and
the colonist of the future. who traces his descent
from a half caste gin with four very much, mixed
husbands will break all known records in the
matter of ancestry,- Even in Britain very few
noble families haye been started by a man. with;
more than four parents.
* * *
Sydney E. News permits a “ Band of
Matrons” to make in its columns an obscenely
brutal suggestion. The fierce savagery of this;
gang of Woolloomooloo women shows,clearly that
they are not the mothers of the Mount Rennie
offenders, though it is iust as certain from the
fiendish character of the punishment suggested
that they are exactly the kind of females to give
birth to just such another mob. While there
live in N.S.W. such creatures, in the guise of
women, and while there exists in the colony, a*
newspaper capable of tacitly supporting their filthy
proposals, the convict seed will continue to. find
food for the hangman,.
A JUBILEE JINGLE.
Sir Patrick smiled ; said he, “I’ve got
A patriotic vein
As well developed as the one
In Bill they call the ‘ Plain ’ t
“ Plain Bill may send Contingents out
To slay the Soudanese
H ain’t a military bloke
My forte is Jubilees.
*•* Let Roberts deal in malt and hops,
And Young in hops and balls ;.
Let Ninian Melville deal in woe,
Shrouds, coffin-plates, and palls ;
“ If Parliament will only vote
The needful £ s. d.,
I’ll show Australia I’m the hoy
To run a Jubilee.
“ I’ll open railways everywhere,
Drains, pubs, (let niggards curse);
I’ll open wide that shrivelled sock
They call the Public Purse.
“ A fortnight’s howl—then darkness, debt,
Disaster, and D.T.
What odds ? we’ll have a bully time,
A high old Jubilee !”
Enough of Pat—he goes ahead
Of Bill they call the “ Plain
He’d have the Lord’s Anointed out
To open up a drain !
He’d deafen Albert Ed,ward with
A “ spaich” by Dan. O’C.,.
And butcher e’en the Royal ear
To make a Jubilee !.
Let Patrick and his programme slide,
We merely wish to state
We’ve got a programme of our own
For eighteen-eighty-eight..
One which (in all liumilitee)
We humbly think will he
Much better than a fourteen-days'
Soul-satisfying spree.
We don’t want dilettante Dukes
(No, by the shade of Wilkes),
We don’t want Lonsdales, Londesboroughs,
Or Battenbcrgs, or Dilkes ;
We don’t want Royal noses out
To sniff the Bondi breeze—
To Sheol with all princes, pimps,
Prigs, Jingoes, Jubilees !
We want some crying evils slain,
We want a little nous
Displayed both in and outside what
Sir ’Enery calls the ’Ouse.
We’d like the slogging business left
To Foley and to Lees ;
We don’t want fighting M.’sL.A.,
Or swilling Jubilees.
We’d like to see an Act in force
For alienating land—
One framed on rules of common sense
Which all can understand :
An Act to sooth the souls of both
Selector and lessee —
A better boon to cornstalks than
A Jennings Jubilee.
We like to give the lower class
A better boon than that—
Have no more Euclid taught ’em
With Wangles, and a CAT.
We’d like to see some judges taught
(Especially Judge D.)
To show a little mercy in
Our year of Jubilee.
We’d like to see the civil-list
Cut down (yes, by the mass!)
To something like proportion to
The wealth-creating class.
We’d like some sinecurists sacked
Who gorge ill-gotten fees
A greater evil in their way
Than even Jubilees.
We’d like to see Protection strike
Its roots into the soil,
And make the hungry lean grow fat,
The poor man’s “ billy ” boil.
We’d tax dudes, dukes, and Chinamen,
Priests, parsons, C.M.G.’s,
And all who’d squander public cash
In senseless Jubilees.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Dailey is, we are sorry to hear, again
very ill.
Mr. Peter Lalor, the Victorian Speaker,
is suffering from diabetes, and is on leave of
absence.
It is reported that Bishop Field Flowers
Goe, of Melbourne, has a brother named Wild
Flowers Goe.
Another huge scandal, with striking
points of resemblance to the Crawford-Dilke affair,
will shortly startle London town.
The Duke of Edinburgh has just com-
pleted his 42nd year. It will take him 42 years
more before he knows how to play the Addle.
“ Prince Louis of Battenberg has been
travelling about the Continent as Mr. Lewis
Brown.” Out of compliment to her Gracious, we
presume.
Sir John Robertson has been saying un-
pleasant things to the Mayor of Melbourne. It is
our duty to remind Honest Jack that the other
man is a lawyer.
Dilke, who leaves England for Australia
in a week or two, will—out of deference, we sup-
pose, to what he believes to be the custom of our
“ Arst families”—travel under an alias.
Henry George will be nominated as a can-
didate for the oAice of Mayor of New York by the
Central Labour Union. We are sorry. Glutton’s
apoplexy would be a sad end for a philosopher.
We notice Mr. A. C. Wylie, of Sydney,
barrister, is lecturing on “Political Economy.”
He was once secretary to Sir Charles Dilke ; so he
ought to have seen a good deal—if he kept his
eyes open.
Mr. Edmund Finn disclaims the author-
ship of “ The Priest’s Secret,” to which story
George Darrell is, or isn’t, indebted for the plot of
his latest plaiy. Mr. Finn’s disclaimer come 3
rather late in the day.
The Duke of Richmond draws from the
British Treasury a “ perpetual pension” of £19,000
annually—simply because he happens to be
descended fromi Louise Renee de Querouaille, a
mistress of Charles 11.
The Sydney Evening News, in its obituary
notice: of the late Theodore Emile Argles, grace-
fully alludes to that gifted writer as “ a literary
cheap Jack.” B®t that’s not what was the matter.
Argles was mot cheap enough for the Bennetts.
•Judge Paul, of Queensland, passed through
Sydney last week after a trip to China and Japan,
undertaken for the sake of his health, which
has been much benefited. The Judge, it is under-
stood, now tells all his funny stories in Chinese.
Truth says Bishop Moorhouse originally
intended offering the vicarage of Blackburn to
Bishop Kennion, of Adelaide, instead of to Bishop
Pearson, of Newcastle, and hints that James
Manchester only changed his mind owing to the
storm of hostile criticism evoked by the proposal. •
Dr. Walter F. Mackenzie, who died of
peritonitis last week, had perhaps the largest pri-
vate practice in Sydney, and took with him to his
too early grave a vast store of medical experience.
In his capacity as chief medical officer of the
A.M.P. Society he had personally examined 25,000
people.
John James Williams, an ex-editor of the
Sydney War Crv, made his 59th appearance at
the Melbourne City Court last week on a charge
of drunkenness, and “ scratching and tearing at
his bare flesh ”in the public highway. John, we
believe, is the “saved reporter” who has fre-
quently “starred” at Harmy meetings.
A dashing young Spanish officer has got
into trouble for making love to Queen Regent
Christina. This is rough on the proud Castilian.
In the days of giddy Isabella a good-looking officer
didn’t run the same risks as now. The only diffi-
culty then was in making enough love to the
Queen- Isabella doated on the military.
The Prince of Wales’ tailor declines to
send him another suit of clothes until his bill i s
paid. It amounts to £lOOO, and has been running
for 25 years. In spite of his income of £150,000
per annum, Wales never pays anybody much, and
there is an occasional difficulty even about the
victualling department at Marlborough House.
The Queen’s affection for the noble family
of the Browns appears to be deep rooted. One of
her favourite faithful gillies is a certain Hugh
Brown, and the mantle of poor dear John has
just fallen upon a gentleman who is undoubtedly
brown by nature. Yes —Her Majesty has selected
a handsome Hindoo from Benares as her special
body servant.
Mr. Heath, of Daly River, S.A., when a
widower of 56 years, fell “ madly in love” with a
beautiful girl of 15 and married her. In her turn
she fell madly in love with one M'Kinnon, a beau-
tiful young man who was not 56. For wiping
Mac out with a pistol Heath has just got 10
years, and the married men of S.A. are agitating
for a mitigation.
A lordly commission agent of Napier,
N.Z., has just filed his little shovel with
liabilities in five figures and assets nil. At a
meeting of creditors it transpired that the unfor-
tunate filer had been earning about £1 a week and
living at the rate of £2OOO a year. Hard indeed
mu3t be the conditions of life in a colony which
compels a poor devil to put up the shutters under
such circumstances.
The “unemployed” riots in London so
impressed Iler Gracious, &c. that she playfully
observed, “ Perhaps there will be a revolution,
and 1 shall be driven from the throne.” In those
words is the explanation—if any were needed—of
the Queen’s recent burst of activity. Her love
for the country is such that she would rather opon
half-a-dozen shows, at enormous personal incon-
venience, than get the “ knock.”
Another tough flogging in Brisbane gaol-
only this time it was the new Governor of that
establishment, Captain Jekyll, who flogged
(horsewhipped) his predecessor, just to give him
something by which to remember the place where
he had spent so many happy hours. Captain Jekyll
(who, by the way, is an ex-imperial officer, and
went with the N.S.W. Contingent to the Soudan),
alleges that the other man had slandered Mrs.
Jekyll.
The saintly individual who tried to offer
up a prayer at the meeting of his creditors in
Auckland (N.Z.), some years ago, did not get as
far as “Amen” on that occasion. Among his
creditors was a rough Scotchman who, as soon as
he had got over his amazement at the coolness of
the proceeding, shouted out, “Sit doon, ye
domned infernel heepocreet ! If ye say anither
wurd to the Almichty in my presence dom ine if I
dinna kick ye, &c., &c." The creditors roared,
and the petitioner sat down.
Who is “Mr. William Wilson, of Vic-
toria,” and why should we have to read a cable-
gram announcing his approaching departure from
England, and the fact that he is about to be
“banqueted”? Well, Mr. W. Wilson is a rich
and obscure person who hopes ultimately to sit in
the Commons. Mr. Wilson is suspected of having
provided much chicken and beer for the cable-
correspondents, and for the sum of one guinea we
are prepared to give in advance a list of the peoplo
who will attend the Wilsonian banquet.
The reason why the newly-made “Lord
Brassey, of Bulkeley, and his patrician “missus”
are coming to Australia seems to be that they are
desirous of giving the British public time to re-
cover from its astonishment at the recent an-
nouncement that Brassey’s real name is he
Bressey, and that he is of ancient Norman stock,
dating at least fx-om the time of William the Con-
queror. The notification in question faii’ly took
away the breath of the 8.P., and his lordship has
hopes that when he gets back to England John
Bull will, in sporting phrase, have got his “second
wind.”
A Sydney publican, who has a reputation
as a “bruiser,” week told Mr. W. S. Targett,
M.L.A., “what he thought of him.” As he
didn’t get hit, he “said it again”—this time in
the street —and was promptly knocked down. He
arose and was knocked down once more, where-
upon he caved in. This aggressive publican, if he
had studied the newspapers attentively, would
not have made such a mistake —he would have
inown that just now there are special reasons why
Mr. Targett should, better than any other man, be
ible forcibly to illustrate the advantages of keep-
ing a still tongue.
“The officer in charge of the kitchen at
Darlinghurst Gaol has been reported to the Comp*
troller-General for a breach of discipline in giving
the murderer Reynolds a fried steak for his last
breakfast in this world.” We should think so.
The man who, while there was a gridiron under
Heaven to be begged, borrowed, or stolen, would
fry a steak, and delibei’ately administer >
to even a doomed murderer—the man who
could commit the cold-blooded, atrocious
cruelty of adding the weight of a f n ®
steak to the heavy burden already borne by the
convicted wife-assassin—such a man deserves
die the death after he has sharpened his teeth fo
a month on the hash at our boarding-house.
According to the Sydney E. News, Car-
dinal Moran has written for the T. and C. JoCKSAh
a biography of Dr. Carr, the new R.C. Bishop 0
Melbourne. Considering that Alfred the Aw U (
has been giving the Kyardinal “ particular h 9
of late for shirking the grave-digger’s bill for
burial of Archbishop Vaughan, it now looks.as
his Imminince wished to test the truth of
Scriptural theory of heaping coals of fire on
enemy’s head. We presume Dr. Moran’s “ sere
costs nothing, (it is probably well worth
money), but at the same time there’s non*
“ mei’cenary” about Alfred, and he’d just a 9 9
pay a cardinal half-a-crown a column for copi _
he’d pay a professional writer a pound—P® 111 '"
a trifle sooner.
Parson Bretnall is, if we mistake
the second largest shareholder in that holy »
successful paper the Brisbane Telegraph- #
preaches vigorously almost every Sawbath 1
local chapel, and on last Sunday week was e P
cially forcible in his denunciation of g*' nD
blasphemy, and Sabbath-breaking. ® urin f v er
week, however, Parson Bretnall's paper aa
tises “Consultations,” “ Totalisers,” Sunday
cursions, and Sunday entertainments, at as I°'
not lower prices than the rival evening P»P®£' g .
Observer. Every Saturday’s issue of the .
graph has of late contained the advertiserne
Dr. York, Freethought lecturer. It is good bus
to denounce “ wickedness” on Sunday cV
and to make coin by helping it along on
da ys- ]ate
At a meeting of the creditors of
Judge Noel, of the Victorian Insolvency
held the other day in Melbourne, a balance
was presented showing a deficiency of
£lBOO. Among the creditors were three
THE SYDNEY LARRIKIN AND
THE SHOEMAKER.
No I.—“ Make ’em more stub-toed and higher-
heeled than you ever made before, and let them heels
slope more forrerder than you ever sloped ’em, or I’ll
punch yer bloomin ’ed ” said the Larrikin to the
Shoemaker’
“Leave it to me,” said the Shoemaker to the
Larrikin.
2. —When the boots were done they more than
realized the Larrikin’s ideal.
3. —But there is such a thing as too much of a
muchness, and the Larrikin found when he put them
on that the heels were so high that he could not stand
up in them at all at first, and when at last, by
practising, he could stand in them, the heels sloped
so much that he could only walk backwards.


known Hebraic usurers, Mark Moss, Aaron Wax-
man, and David Henry, for £763, £l2O, and £216,
respectively. It is indeed strange that the know-
ledge officially acquired by Judge Noel in the In-
solvent Court was insufficient to make him refrain
from putting himself in the power of these
hook-nosed gentlemen. The worst aspect of
the affair presents itself when one reffects
that a judge would be scarcely human if he did
not slightly favour his creditors—especially such
creditors —in the business of the court. Judge
Noel’s salary was £l5OO a year.
The present Mayor of Melbourne (Mr.
Stewart) appears to be well beloved of his brother
turtle-consumers. They have paid him the
stupendous compliment of re-electing him for
another year of glory, to the exclusion of Aider-
man Benjamin, who happened to be spending his
Day of Atonement in retirement when the election
took place. This arrangement, it was considered,
would put the popular Stewart in the way of a
Jubilee knighthood. That gentleman, however, pro-
fesses indifference toaK.C.M.G.-ship, and declines
(at latest date) to wear the golden chain of office
for another 12 months. To complicate matters,
the bold Beniamin also declines to become a
Mayor at second hand, and the Council is in a
very disturbed state. Most of the aldermen have
wives, and every wife wants her old man to go
for the Jubilee knighthood. Anyway, it is satis-
factory to think that Mr. Benjamin will have none
of it. The Almighty never intended His chosen
people to be turned into K.C.M.G.’s.
We understand that many of our represen-
tative Australians were disturbed by an adver-
tisement in the London papers— “ Slater’s Detec-
tive Association have the most complete arrange-
ments possible for tracing missing friends and
suspected persons at the Colonial Exhibition.” The
appearance of that ad. considerably affected the
appearance of representative Australians. Some
were seized with a waggish mania for going to the
exhibition in blue spectacles and false noses, others
shaved off beards of 30 years’ standing, and wore
respirators. Two well-known C.M.Gs. met in the
N.S.W. Court, both wore false noses and Aaxen
wigs, and each penetrated the other's disguise.
“ What are yvr, Bill —missin’ friend? ” “ Yes,
old man—and You ? ” “ Oh, I’m a ’spected person,”
was the sorrowful reply. A policeman hove in
sight, and the two C.M.G’s., silently shaking hands,
slunk behind a sheltering show-case. We can
vouch for the truth of that yarn. We have it
straight from a London correspondent, whoso
word is as good as his bond. Nay, better, for his
last bill was dishonoured.
Writes Mr. Charles Lett in the Sydney
E. News : —“ If Mr. Heaton can carry this cheap
postage measure he will have established a high
position for himself in the Imperial Parliament, as
well as a claim to be recognised as an authorita-
tive exponent of colonial opinion in a' future Con-
ssrvative Government.” Mr. Charles Lett also
writes “ Miss Braddon’s new novel ‘ One Thing
Needful,’ which has hardly had time to reach
Sydney yet, has some amusing sketches of the
many-sided Grand Old Man, under the name of
Mr. Nestorious. One of the facets of character
skilfully presented by this distinguished novelist
is Mr. Gladstone’s capacity for falling in love.”
Apropos , whenever in London two real Tories
meet in a club the illicit and shocking amours of
Mr. Gladstone afford them a theme of conversa-
tion. But the fact remains that, though the
G.O.M. has a habit of beaming upon pretty girls as
he passes them in the street—Sir John Robertson,
by the way, also dispenses many pleasant grand-
fa 1 herly smiles upon the unknown fair—the Tories
have never yet been able to do anything more
than misconstrue his motives in shedding the
light of his countenance upon les petites appeti-
santes.
Drs. Fitzgerald and Beaney, the eminent
Melbourne limb-removers, are at lance!s drawn
over the miserable hospital scandal. Beaney
heads the Parliamentary faction which desire 3 to
keep the precious institution in the present condi-
tion, and wouldn’t willingly part with a single
germ. Fitz. speaks with the popular voice, and
says “ Burn it down ! ” Hence there was friction
when the latter came to give evidence before the
Enquiry Committee, with bashful Beaney in the
chair. A reference to the professional skill and
success of Dr. Fitz. was nearly attended with
fatal results —to Beaney. After getting the better
of his apoplectic symptoms he burst out ; “As
chairman it is not right for me to say what opera-
tions I have done and to speak of my successes.”
Modest, retiring Beaney ! He should rather have
said that it wasn't necessary to speak of his suc-
cessess. They receive bold advertisements in
newspaper paragraphs and at banquets. They
are more dazzling than his diamonds. Often have
we revelled in a half-column history of the cutting
off of somebody’s toe by “ our popular surgeon.”
Beaney can rest contented. So long as he con-
tinues to buy diamonds and give big feeds his
fame will never die.
The murder is out at last. Baron Mik
louho Maklay, of Sydney, is not a baron after all ;
he is only a “ Potomstwenii Dworianine.” lie
has been a Potomst shadow of the prophet!
where has the other end of that name got to ? —he
has been a Poto-and-all-the-rest-of-the-unholy-
hosii ever since lie can remember, and his father
was a Pot before him. It is no fault of his ;
he was born that way. Nearly everybody in
Russia who can spell decently is a Poto whisky—
or whatever it may he ; the title is about equiva-
lent to that Chinese distinction which looks like a
cat having a fit in a waste-paper basket, and it
simply signifies that the mother of the individual
alluded to is not reduced to take in washing to
support him. While on this subject, we may
mention that M. Maklay’s New Guinea scheme,
which wav beginning to look up again, has fizzled
once more. The Russian Government was induced
at last to give him some support, and a large
number of volunteers came forward, all willing
and anxious to emigrate to a land which, like
Eden, grew everything, from sour apples, sin, and
shakes, down to murder and cannibalism. But
Poi.omstwennii D. Maklay blighted them in one act.
Ihere was to he neither wine nor women in the
new colony, and when the would-be emigrants
heai'd this they glared at the botanist and retired.
In the despotic, brutal, nigger-hanging,
mgger- flogging, convict-haunted region of Perth,
w estern Australia, nobody can get drunk more
than four times a year unless he has political in-
fluence. A fortnight ago Dominic Murphy had a
s P roe > refused to pay for a liquor, and u-ed some
strong language begotten of rum. Next morning
he was sober and had a terrible head ; he called
° n hi 3 enemy of the previous night, paid up, and
apologised. One shilling line, 12s. expenses, a
month with hard labour, and a vicious reprimand
Were held to meet Dominic’s case, and on the
same morning five men who were found sheltering
r onv the weather in some stables, got three months
“Piece. To a prisoner in W.A., hard labour means
laving his hair cut off, being badly fed, wearing a
convict dress, working in chains on the roads, and
Perhaps being flogged for insubordination.
POLITICAL
POINTS
23,009 drunks in N.S. Wales for 1885.
Not bad for a non-jubiloe time.
“ Brute bullock ” is the latest epithet in
the N.S.W. Assembly. “ Come outside,” of course,
is the answer.
According to. last week’s vote, the real
strength of parties in tho N.S.W. Assembly at
present is—Grinners, 75 ; Scowlors, 47.
The principles of the Parkes party are
seven—viz., the five loaves and the two fishes.
This is not from Bailey’s Sunday News.
Qni s'excuse, s'accnse ! “ Our objection
(says the Brisbane Courier) to the French occu-
pation of the New Hebrides is a purely secular
one.” And so is the object of the occupation.
The Brisbane Courier is the author of
the theory which asserts ilie conference of ship-
owners and seamen in Sydney to be tho outcome
of a cunningly-devised Protectionist conspiracy.
Mr. Black, of the Brisbane Assembly,
calls attention to the fact that electric light costs
as much as the services of members in that
chamber. In other words electricity is as expen-
sive as gas.
Prayers are read in both branches of the
Queensland Legislature. An extra clause has now
been added which runs thus : “ And keep us
from the sins and wickedness of Wisdom and
Parkes. Amen.”
Mr. J. S. Hawthorne, M.L. A. for the
Protectionist electorate of Balmain, has been
elected President of the Leichhardt branch of the
N.S.W. Freetrade Association. The hawthorn is
in blossom, but it won't be always May.
A fact of which The Bulletin has reason
to he proud is that its articles on the political con-
nection of Australia and England are constantly
quoted and commented upon by Reynolds, the
organ of the British Republican party, which has
a circulation of over lialf-a-million copies weekly.
The present question is— Shall we admit
free to N.S.W. goods manufactured by the slaves
of Belgium ? The last strike in Ghent was that of
THE “WALES” TESTIMONIAL.
Wales. finding that the sum raised for him as a Lusti-
monial-tip by his colonial admirers amounts to about sax-
pence, generously decides to hand the coin over to the
“Jubilee Imperial Institute” fund.
young girls who protested against the discharge of a
married woman because she had not returned to
the factory within six days after her confine rent.
“ You choose to continue the system under
which you have this sad /act staring you in theface,
that whereas law in England is administered in
an English spirit, and law in Scotland is adminis-
tered in a Scotch spirit,, law in Ireland is not ad-
ministered in an Irish spirit.”— Gladstone to the
Tories.
“Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—ln your issue
of this week there is a paragraph one of the many
errors of which I wish to correct as the error in
question affects another member be sides myself.
When I interjected *He boats his wife ’ Mr.
Shepherd was not speaking.—Yours faithfully,
F. J Gibbes. —October 15, 1886.”
“ The policy of the Government,” said the
N.S.W. Premier a few nights ago, “is one of
economy and retrenchment.” Yet in the Supple-
mentary Estimates the sum of £7835 18s. 2d. is
required for a portion of the salaries of new
officials in the Civil Service, nearly all of whom
have been appointed within the last six months.
Sir S. W. Griffith says that although he
has applied personally to the President of the
Sydney Geographical Society, he can obtain no
satisfactory explanation with reference to the sum
of £lOOO contributed by Queensland to the Everill
expedition to New Guinea. He has sternly de-
termined that Queensland won’t be “ had ” in that
way again.
Sir S. W. Griffith cruelly remarked in the
Brisbane Assembly last week that he hoped
members had not followed him for favours in the
way of votes which they expected to receive. Sir
Samivell s hope is justiiied. Members follow him
for the same reason that they used to support Sir
Henry Parkes and Sir A. Stuart in N.S.W.—they
are fascinated by the charms of his conspicuous
beauty and virtue.
The Legislative Council of Queensland,
true to all the traditions of the Conservatism
which rules such chambers, threw out that clause
of the Employers’ Liability Bill which provides for
compensation to seamen injured by accidents
caused by rotten tackle on board ship. And the
S. A. Legislative Council has by 10 votes to 5
thrown out tlio Payment of Members bill. A poli-
tical Hades is gaping for these colonial lords.
“ It is announced that a .working-man’s
subscription is to be raised for tKb purpose of pre-
senting to Lord Salisbury a tostimohial expressive
of tho gratitude of the English working men for
the many services ho has rendered to their class.”
We now fully expect to see the working men of
Sydney organising a testimonial to our morning
contemporaries, or the Hibernian Guilds banquet-
ting Zac. Barry and tho Escaped Nun.
It is more than hinted that tho arrest and
deposition of Prince Alexander of Bulgaria was
nothing bit a “barney” pro-arranged between
him and the wire-pullers at St. Petersburg. The
leisurely way in which he returned to his sorrow-
ing people and the self-sacrificing style of liis
voluntary abdication are suggestive of the acco-
modating Battenbcrg having been “ squared.” No
other member of the family has ever loosened his
grip on a good thing. *
The song of Sir Patrick Jennings. From
the Cumberland Times :
“ Our tyrannous authority
We deftly exercise ;
Our subsidised majority
All common-sense despise ;
Our blubber brain and brazen cheek
All opposition dare,
For we’re a brutal Ministry,
We are, we are, we air.”
The other day a member of the firm to
which Mr. 11. 11. Brown, M.P.,belongs, got into a
little trouble, and since then Mr. Brown seems to
have felt more kindly towards the Government
than he used to do. Judging from his votes he
now thinks a £2,000,000 shortage rather a nice
thing, and regards Jennings as a jolly good fellow
who deserves support. Of course this is only a
coincidence. We have seen so many
such affairs in N.S.W. that we can
now smell a coincidence a mile off.
London Echo, commenting on
the Australian yell for the annexa-
tion of the New Hebrides and the
Canadian demands re fisheries dis-
pute, asserts that both colonies de-
sire more than England can give,
and that such demands show the
great danger of continued mainten-
ance of the union of Great Britain
and her larger colonies. This is gall
for the Imperial Federationists. These
demands are not a circumstance to
those which would be made if a closer
union were consummated.
“It is an
unlucky coinci
dence that the
working men
of N.S.W., or
a section of
them, should
have chosen to
send home, for
the purpose of
disparaging
their country,
a blatant dema-
gogue of the
worst type.
This worthy
delegate is not
himself a work-
ing man, but
an adventurer
of the usual
stamp , . .
and he has been
careful to de-
scribe with un-
paralleled in-
trepidity o f
Shamelessness
N.S.W. ai a perfectly hopeless field
for emigration.” These remarks
are, of course, from the Australa-
sian.
In Belgium, some young girls
work in the coal mines from 5 a m.
to 11 pan. and earn the magnificent
wage of Is. Bd. per day, and in other
trades they are paid on a similar
scale. Thanks to British Free-trade,
Belgian goods manufactured under
this system are largely exported
into England, and the English work-
man will some day require to labour
under similar conditions unless Pro-
tection comes to his relief. In trade
it is the cheapest, not the Attest,
which survives, and the Belgian
mechanic, with his 12s. or 11s. a week
for 16 hours’ daily labour, must
necessarily outlast the Englishman,
In rc the fcvv P o w S y( l ney boot-sellers who,
though they manufacture, say they can do
without protection. Mr. Wright, of Sydney,
w ho is a bona-fide manufacturer, and not an impor-
ter, points out that one of these advocates of free-
trade sells four times as many English boots as he
does colonial ones ; while, with regard to the other
ftrm, it is an open secret that one partner is living
in Europe superintending the manufacture and
purchase of English and foreign boots designed for
the Sydney market. Lnder which circumstances
[ understand why they do not
p , , , -
want pro cc ion.
Britain is still doing a great work of re
generation in Egypt, that miserable countiy
to further enslave which N.S.W. lent her inglorious
little crew of bandits. There is now a court of ap-
peal in that unhappy land with ten English
judges, and there is so little to do that they all go
away for a holiday at once, and nobody misses
them. Then there are-8 officials w o law ovei
£l9OO a year each, and out of these 22 are po-
petually cm leave, and everything is adjourned
except their salaries. The whole squad Costs
Egypt £lOO,OOO a year, and the natives, at £1 a
week, do the work.
There are in Great Britain 810,, 000 pau-
pers, or one out of 30 of the total population.
Annually there are 180,000 apprehensions for
drunkenness. There are in England and Wale 3
500,000 drunkards, 350,000 barmen and barmaids,
and 150,000 publicans and bebr-sellers, and the
country’s annual drink-bill is £150,000,000. “ Mis-
sions to the heathen ” merely mean the spread of
disease and drunkenness among the blacks for the
benefit of the whites; yet England sends away
annually £1,316,798 in such missions, as against
about £lOO,OOO similarly employed by Germany,
£12,000 by France, or £193,533 for the whole of
Europe 1
Tlev. Missionary Baton is now on a New
Hebrides crusade in Queensland. He lectured
recently at Gympie, with a captain—a man of
blood—in the chair, and pointed out that “ French
civilisation ” meant disaster and death to tl e
natives of t lie islands, whereas annexation by
Britain would save their immortal souls as well as
their bodies. He omitted to mention, of course,
that in Fiji, during 10 years of British govern-
ment, the aborigines have declined from 220,009
to 105,000, all told, and that there is every reason
to fear the missing 115,000 are in Sheol, but that
was a very small matter. It is gratifying to learn
that in the New Hebrides 20,000 of the natives
have been so far civilised as to wear ‘ * more or
less clothing.” We guess, however, that they
mostly wear less—a good deal less.
After his great speech on the N.S.W
£2,000,000 deficit, Sir Honry Parkos will not go
down to posterity as a big authority on finance.
With a shortage equal to one-quarter of a year’s
revenue the affairs of the colony are bad enough,
but the great “ Hi Ham ” only showed hi 3 miser-
able ignorance, or some other quality more miser-
able still, when ho declared that the position of
N.S.W. would be akin to that of Britain if the
latter country showed a revenue deficiency
for the year of some £22,000,000. He
chose to utterly ignore the fact that N.S.W.
has assets of almost untold value—assets which
only require to be rightly used to yield an im-
mense return, while Britain has hardly enough to
show for her load of debt to pay for a section in
Kurt’s Arcadia. Britain has no Crown lands to
sell, she has no railways that are not in private
hands; she has nothing but a collection of obso-
lete glory, but let her rejoice all the same.
Providence has been good to her, for she has no
Parkc3.
Writing to a London paper, Mr. George
Kimber, of Timaru, implores the editor to give
him room to show up the abominable tricks of par-
sons and other humbugs in England, who are try-
ing to delude the poverty-stricken labourers into
emigrating to N. Z. He declares that that colony
is in a hopeless state of destitution, that its poverty
has been increasing every year until it is now in a
condition baffi ing description. He considers the
N.Z. Government is the greatest fraudever imposed
on a suffering people. It has smuggled the land,
all except swamps and mountain-tops, and divided
the spoil. It has borrowed thirty millions to im-
prove the stolen lands, and spent them on railways
and immigration, by which ten families have pro-
fited to the extent of twenty millions. There is a
landed aristocracy of 250 who are lords of all New
Zealand. The colony is a great usury den—every-
body and everything is mortgaged beyond redemp-
tion. These and other hard tack 3 George hammers
home for the benefit of the sons of toil in the old
country, so that if they are foolish enough to emi-
grate they may do so with their eyes open.
The Bulletin is responsible for a good
deal of the following, quoted from an article in
our pages by London Truth ; but, oh ! how little
are our gods known in England ! Who are
“Graham, Baring, or Mr. Dalby?” However-, let
Truth speak:—“The gang of colonials who are
being fed and lionised about the country, and ex-
plaining everywhere that the vast lands from
which they come are peopled by flunkeys and
sycophants, do not, as is usually the case with
prophets, find a very hearty appreciation at home.
Says The Bulletin, the newspaper which has the
largest circulation in Australia :
“ ‘ The mere circumstance of titles being conferred on such
men as Graham, Baring, and Robert Stout serves to open the
eyes of the colonists to the fact that honours are distributed,
not to those who have served Australasia well and truly, but
to such as promise to be pliant instruments in the hands of
London lords and princelings. Mr. Dalby, the new Privy
Councillor, has long since lost all claim—if he ever possessed
any—to rank as a representative Australian. To the future
Australian the political bigotry which is now termed loyalty
will be as incomprehensible as the mysteries of Obi. It is
the dream of madmen that this great continent should ever
consent to be bound to the festering corpse of Monarchy,
and should obey for ever an absent and invisible sovereign,
who claims its allegiance on the score of tiaditions which
grew in dark ages at the remote Antipodes. In times to
come we shall stand amazed that such a man should have
built up a European reputation on the attempted butchery
of a few brave but badly-armed patriots in the Soudan.’”
From all of which it is pretty evident that the
circulation in England of Plain Bill Dailey and
Graham Berry is not yet quite so big as that of
The Bulletin.
Apropos to the letter of “ James *Greig, a
Loyalist,” who writes to The Bulletin from Balla-
rat. Even in England the majority of electorsarc
now in favour of granting self-government to th.e
Irish people. The constituencies are strangely
mixed, in some places 20,000 voters having onp
member only, while in others 2000 are equally
represented. Mr, Gladstone’s supporters are re-
turred almost exclusively by the large towns,
while his opponents r.ely greatly on tire villages,
where the brutal hoglike Hodge votes as he is jtold
and fancies beer will go down in price as the ie-
ward of his docility. Durjng the last elections,
when 512 members had been re turn,ed, it was
found that the Liberal leader had only 19G fol-
lowers, while the Tories and Unionists mustered
316, but Mr. Gladstone’s 19Q had bepn sent in by
1,350,336 votes, while the opposing 31,<j were backed
up by 1,106,651 only. Dividing the votes given by
the number of members, each supporter of Home
Rule had 6590 suffrages, while each opponent
averaged only 3502. Had represent ition gone
according to population only, Mr. Gladstone would
have mustered 282 supporters to Salisbury’s 230,
and as the latter number would have consisted
largely of Unionists who support the Tories on
Irish questions only, it follows that of the real
Conservative party—the fossil .clods who graze
like their own fat oxen on the lands of the nation
—hardly a vestige would have remained. The
struggle is one of mind against matter, but the
inert hereditary louts who now hold the reins of
power are supported only by an ignorant and
clownish minority after all. Numbers and brains
are both against them, and the average country
Tory—a mere over-fed mass of beef —cannot stand
long against such a combination.
On dit that a colossal discovery of tin lias
bsen made at Point Archer, N.Q. The lode is a
jerfect quarry five feet wide ; it assays over 50
per cent., and carries a little gold. Mr. Nicholas,
the well-known expert, has gone from Melbourne
to report.


Abigail, the Lightning-Sketch Man.
“The Abbott pest and the rabbit pest are now equally bad in N.S.W.” —Francis Abigail , M.P.


“A Fellow-feeling,” &c.
“Sir Samuel Griffith says he has much sympathy with the Unemployed.” —Brisbane Paper.
SIR SAWMILL GRIFFITH (to deputation of the Unemployed): “I HAVE EVERY SYMPATHY WITH YOU IN YOUR DISTRESS, FOR UNLESS YOU AND YOUR MATES
STICK TO ME, I MYSELF WILL BE OUT OF A BILLET IN A FEW MONTHS.”


Society
We would like to let Lord Carington know
in our own private and unostentatious way that
there are a lot of impudent people who affect to
think that Government House, Sydney, and (say)
£lB,OOO a year are not given him with the sole ob-
ject that “ the show ” should he run in the interests
of English globe-trotters. H.E. may not be aware
of it, but his dinner-parties are supposed by the
presumptuous individuals aforesaid to he given to
Australians no less than to dudes from “home.”
H.E. gained some reputation for hospitality, com-
ing as he did after the venerable hen-fancier, but
he will lose ground by not making a greater fuss
over the people who pay him a “ splendid screw”
to “ entertain on.” “ Thursday afternoons,” when
there is a wild revelry of tea and tennis, is much ;
but not enough by any means. Though Lord
Disgustus did not entertain Sydney people, neither
did he hunt up every youngster who landed at
Circular Quay and make him a welcome guest!
* * *
But we knew it would soon come. His
Excellency, it is plain, is already pretty tired of
being eternally pump-handled by colonial “ sas-
siety.” A man can’t suddenly turn his back on
the associations of a life-time without feeling the
jar acutely, and so we don’t greatly blame his
lordship after all for much preferring the com-
pany of an eye-glassed person with check pants, a
patrician drawl, and a Piccadilly “manner” to
that of the gilded bourgeois and the opulent ex-
bullock-persuader who has managed to gain a
title manufactured expressly for exportation.
* * *
Melbourne ladies are anxiously enquiring
whether anybody can tip Lady Carington’s cos-
tume for the Cup.
* * *
The Wollongong people are already in a
state of excitement over the visit which his
Excellency is to pay to their township. The event
is not to come off till February, so that this out-
burst of exuberance is a little prema
ture, hut it is always best to be in good time. The
visit is to be signalised by a flower-show, the
opening of a Town-hall, and all the customary
antediluvian fuss.
* *
Between 300 and 400 people, including a
large number of Melbourne visitors and Sydney
fashionables, responded to the invitation of Sir
Patrick and Lady Jennings to an afternoon party
at their residence, Colehrook, Double Bay, on
Friday, 15th. Tents had been erected in the
garden, where refreshments were spread, but the
rain prevented any out-door amusements. Jubilee
municipalists, however, prefer indoor amusements.
Several lady vocalists entertained the company
with some well-rendered songs, the ballroom being
set aside as a music-room. Lady Jennings wore
a handsome costume of black satin with rich lace
draperies. She received her guests in the draw-
ing-room, and amongst them were noticed, from
Melbourne: Mr. and Mrs. Carter, Mr. and Mrs.
Ham, Mr. and Mrs. Alcock, Mr. and Mrs. God-
fred, Mr. and Mrs. Lee, Mr. Stewart, Mrs. C.
Smith, and many others. There were also present
Admiral Tryon, Sir Edward Strickland, Judge
Faucett, Mayor Young and Miss Young, Mr.
and Mrs. Hardy, Mr. and Mrs. O’Connor, Colonel
Airey, Colonel Roberts, the Hons. Dibbs, Cope-
land, and Lyne, &c.
* * *
In somewhat bad taste, the Globe gives
further publicity to the admiration so loudly ex-
pressed for Lady Carington by the aldermen,
&c., (Mayor Young’s “ Jubilee ” guests), who
were received at Government House, Sydney,
last week. It seems to have originally been
Lord Carington’s intention to entertain these fat
personages outside in the yard, or among the trees,
and invitations were issued accordingly, but most
unfortunately for her ladyship’s carpets, heavy
rain came down, and the turtle-fed company had
to he asked inside. Apropos, it is related that
several municipal magnates, who have lately in-
flicted their presence upon a certain rather
“swagger” Sydney hash-foundry, complain
bitterly of the treatment to which they have been
subjected. The mistress of the house, it seems,
actually asked them to take off their
hats while sitting in the drawing-room;
further, she had the impertinence to re-
quest that they would neither smoke nor ex-
pectorate in her “be3t” apartment. “Sydney
society,” these gorgeous individuals complain, is
so confoundedly “ stiff.” One or two of them, on
leaving the ultra-conventional hostelry in ques-
tion, still continued to argue the hat-question,
stoutly contending that it was quite en regie
for a gentleman to wear his “ tile ” in the house,
always provided he doffed it at meal times. The
idea is a peculiarly aldermanic one, and is charm-
ingly typical of that large Town-hall-fed body
which has no respect for anything hut beer and
beef.
* * *
At St. Stephen’s, Elsternwick, Melb., on
12th October, Rev. A. Pelham Chase, second son
of Canon Chase, was married to the only daughter
of Mr. Theyre Weigall. The church was florally
decorated —chiefly with lilies and marguerites.
The bride, who was given away by her father,
wore a very long trained gown of ivory satin
merveilleux, richly draped with cream lace ; the
customary wreath and veil, with a large bouquet,
completed a most becoming toilette. The two
bridesmaids were attired alike in embroidered
muslin with sailor hats. The newly-married
couple will reside at Sorrento, where the bride-
groom has been appointed to the living.
* * *
On Thursday last, in Melbourne, Miss
Beatrice Stephen was married to Colonel Bing-
ham. R.A., of Sydney. It was a very smart
wedding, and the pretty bride perhaps never
looked better than on her marriage morn. She
Wore a lovely cream satin gown with train fully
three yards long, and was attended by two little
pages in white satin and by eight little brides-
maids —her nieces and nephews.
* * *
On Tuesday afternoon, the 12th inst.,
Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney held a reception
at the Town Hall, when quite 500 guests attended.
The visitors in connection with the alleged muni-
cipal “jubilee” were also present. Substantial
refreshments were provided to meet the substan-
tial jubilee appitites of the municipalists, and
Herr Patok’s band played several tunes during the
afternoon.
* * *
Last week the officers of H.M.S. Nelson
entertained Captain Brooke and the officers of
H.M.S. Opal at a particularly festive diianer. The
table (at the commencement of the proceedings)
was beautifully decorated. The occasion was the
departure of the officers of the Opal for England.
* * *
Since the institution of the Sydney
Lanceahs, every warlike hank-clerk, land-auc-
tioneer, and tailor’s foreman does the military
bump-trot as he rides down street on his chargeali
on the way to work. Now-a-days in Sydney you
can’t walk round a corner without running up
against something in or out of uniform, looking
like a caricature of one of Napoleon’s generals in
Meissonnier’s picture “After Borodino.” The
something is, in all human probability, your re-
spected barber’s junior assistant.
* * *
The outfit of an officeali of Lanceahs
they are all officeahs, by the way -costs something
under £2OO.
* * *
Those splendid heroes, the “ Fifth Scotch
Rifles,” gave a smoke-concert at Carington Hall,
Sydney, on 13th inst. Smoke draws more soldiers
than fire. Pipe-Major M‘Donald played his own
composition “The Sydney Scottish March,” on the
pipes. The effect was electrifying. The whole
affair was very national, and we know what that
means. We defy anybody to write a neater libel
than this.
* * *
They affect theatricals in Bathurst, and
knowing that all the world’s a stage, fancy all its
inhabitants are players. That is a mistake they
have been led into by our friend William. But in
extenuation of his folly in making such a statement
it must he remembered that Bathurst was in the
age of niggers and ’possum-eating at the time he
wrote. Had it been otherwise, the wily hard
would have run an exception into his state-
ment that would have prevented Bathurst
falling into this natural mistake. All the
above, and some that we suppress refers
to the Mitchell Amateur Dramatic Club
who, on 12th inst., went for Byron’s “ Our Boys.”
There’s something in “ Our Boys” that makes it
necessary that amateurs should attempt it. When
we write a play, and we mean to, we’ll make it so
Musik mai be the food ov luv, but ther ez no nootriment, egsept for amatori kats
in that purvided by amatoors and street musicians; notwithstanding the plumpness
of the HERULD’S kritik.
easy to act that not an amateur will stoop to
grapple with it. That’s what Shakespeare should
have done.
* * *
Great preparations are being made in the
“ hupper succles” to entertain Sir Charles Dilke,
who is to arrive in Australia next month. “ Fanny”
has come ahead to make special arrangements to se-
cure the greatest comfort for Sir Charles. Nonecf his
little pleasures are to he denied him, and even a
Queen’s Proctor is to be appointed in case any
necessity should arise for his services. Captain
Foster, it is thought, will not be of the party ;
while Mrs. Crawford has, we regret to learn,
defiantly determined to remain on the “ Conti -
nong.” Ail this is a sad blow, and detracts
greatly from the show; still the sight will he a
good one, and Potts Point will have an oppor-
tunity of entertaining this distinguished baronet —
son, by the way of a gardener who was so fortunate
as to he friend of Albert the well-paid.
* * *
Most people are aware of the fact that Dilke
was in this part of the world years ago, and that
he is the author of “ Greater Britain.”
* * *
A prominent Sydney speculator, whose figure
andmoustachios are well-known in fashionable ball-
rooms, last week unsuccessfully attempted to hold
out a siege. A creditor having got judgment
against him, issued a fifa, and a sheriff’s officer
| was sent in search of the delinquent to demand
payment. After many fruitless attempts at an
interview, the man of law eventually ran his
quarry to his office in street. There the im-
pecunious one locked himself in and paid a deaf
ear to the passionate appeals of the sheriff s man
to “ come out and not make a fool of himself.”
The bailiff, however, was not to he “ done.” He
placed a cordon round the building, and loudly
declared his intention of waiting a week, if neces-
sary, rather than let his man escape. As night-
time drew.on, the gay speculator, seeing that the
game was up, came forth and affably tried to ex-
plain that the whole thing was a mistake, don’t-
cherknow, and that at present ho was unable to
meet the pressing little demand—a matter of a
cool £14,000 or so.
* * *
Sydney cabmen seemingly don’t hanker
after the patronage of “ Government House” —
we are not now alluding to his Excellency. From
all one hears, Lord Carington, if he wishes to
maintain the all-round popularity of his establish-
ment, should instruct his numerous young men to
pay cabby if not in a royal at least in a vice-regal
way.
* * *
On dit that a big breach of promise action
is on the stocks. The plaintiff is a widow and her
intended victim a high civic functionary.
* * *
The work of the Sydney Ladies’ Evange-
listic Association has, we read, “ been vigorously
carried on during the last year through the
medium of the several flower, Bible and prayer,
and cab missions The number of
bouquets distributed during the year has been
22,281 ! ” And yet we have not noticedany marked
improvement in the cabmen. We fancy they are
too deeply steeped in double-charges to he led to
the golden shore of piety by even 22,281 bouquets.
It will take more than 22,281 bouquets to lift a
cabman to a sense of his own unworthiness.
* * *
Last week, at the Oxford Hotel, Sydney,
the many friends of the venerable Mr. Samuel
Levey had the pleasure of congratulating him upon
having entered his 83rd year.
* * *
Rev. Osborne Lilley—beautiful name—
preached in Brisbane on Sunday week on “ Court-
ship.” If the clergy would but chiefly confine
their oratory to subjects of this character, the world
would stand a much better chance of profiting by
their ministrations than it does at present. Much
miscellaneous practice in the art of courtship is
believed to he acquired by the meek curate, and
even by the elderly shepherd, while visiting the
ewes of the flock —in a word, it can he safely said
with respect to courtship, that many of the stipen-
diary saints of the community practise even more
than they dare to preach.
* * *
Unprejudiced critics are bringing back
very indifferent accounts of the Indian and Colo-
nial Exhibition. They describe it as a dreary, ill-
arranged show, frequented by a crowd of mock
enthusiasts.
* * *
In these hard times it is necessary to do
something desperate to raise the wind, and an
English Arm has therefore hired a lady as com-
mercial traveller with very good results. She is a
pretty, slender little woman with a peach-bloom
complexion,and a charming blush, andisasinnocent
looking as an angel, hut beneath this lovely ex-
terior she has the cheek of a brass-plated whale
and the energy of a 10-horse power mother-in-law.
She travels second-class, and charges first-class
fares in the regulation style ; she debits her firm
with cab-fares, and then trusts to her little trotters
cased in No. 1 hoof-boxes just as a man does, and
now and then she lets a customer give her a kisv.
That always means a big order. She puts up, too,
at hotels kept by elderly widowers and makes love
to them, thereby dodging many a bill which
figures in her expenses account, and with her
silvery little voice she can talk an order out of a
Hebrew corpse. Altogether the rights of woman
are looking up.
* * *
Taken all in all, perhaps the most elaborate
personage among Mayor Young's gorgeous array
of Jubilee aldermen is the Mayor of Ballarat,
whose civic dignity is of so superior and exacting
a description as to necessitate the almost constant
presence of a uniformed beadle at his worship’s
—we had nearly said his lordship’s—elbow. The
rare intervals in which this splendid flunkey—
expressly imported from Ballarat for the occasion
—is not engaged in combing out the eyebrows of
his distinguished master, straightening his golden
bullock-chain of office, or sewing the most delicate
lace (at eight guineas a yard) on to the border of
his best catskin robe are, we understand, devoted
to inditing replies to innumerable little notes on
scented pink paper sent him, the magnificent
beadle aforesaid, by the enchanted fair of Sydney.
The Right Worshipful Mr. Davies, Lord Mayor of
Hobart, seems to bo travelling flunkeyless and in
a comparatively unostentatious manner, yet is he
likewise an individual of much catskin and bul-
lock-chain. It is rumoured that his lordship,
though privately he gives expression to some little
annoyance at the undemonstrative manner in
which he has been received by his brethren of the
local Press, is not altogether displeased with the
little he has seen of Sydney.
* * *
Alfred Allen, Esq.—Alfred, by the way,
is, in N.S.W., a most unfortunate name—“slung”
an ode on the occasion of the opening of the recent
Waverley flower-show, and delivered it before the
visitors in a style that set them wondering in
which character he appeared to least advantage
that of the poet, or that of the reciter. The third
stanza in the “pome” informed Alfred’s victims
that—
-11 The Bky above is clear to-day,
And summer dawns upon the land
the joke being that while the bard was enuncia-
ting the words the rain was coming down by
buckets-full. A little further along in the poem
the “ Eastern slopes ” round Coogec way came in
for a blasting breath of praise, special mention
being made of the “enchanting woods where
lovers rove.” This was probably meant as a deli-
cate allusion to the episode of the amorous Nor-
wegian sailor who was flogged some time ago.
However, so long as Mr. Allen confined himself
to plain undiluted drivel his hearers tolerated it,
but when he descended to grovel, the people
looked as if they wanted to tear up the Ben
Buckler rock and throw it at him. Digging his
heels into the platform and favouring the vice-
regal party with a smile which would have warped
a tram-line, the poet proceeded
“ Good Carington has come—the people’s choice.
The throng is still to hear his manly voice
Tell how his Queen—beloved by all mankind,
Would well be pleased all loyal hearts to bind
With one long fadeless wreath, from shore to shore,
Till strife t hould cease, and war should be no more.”
“ Good Carington ! ” Good Heavens ! “ The peo-
ple’s choice ! ” What can Alfred mean ?
* * •*
Last year, in N.S.W., 59 persons are
known to have committed suicide. The year 1878
was the least suicidal of the decade just past, for
in it only 18 men and women took the chance as
to what dreams might come in their sleep of death.
Of the aforesaid 59 suicides, 52 were men, and
only seven women—the latter of whom all
poisoned themselves. Of the men, II chose
drowning, nine poison, and 12 hanging. The
hottest months showed the highest records.
* * *
The story goes that one high-bred lady
would have given all her old boots to have been
the bride at a recent haut ten Australian widding ;
she was so deeply attached to the groom that she
had perforce to flee to Europe ere the fatal knot
was tied.
* * *
Kidnapping is the order of the day in
Melbourne just now. Only a few days ago a
child, three years of age, was coolly stolen out of
a perambulator in one of the busiest streets in
Collingwood whilst its mother was in a shop
driving the assistants frantic in their wild endea-
vours to And something “just a shade lighter.”
What the thieves want the children for is just
now beyond comprehension, but the mystery will
no doubt he ultimately solved. Many years ago,
in London, it was noticed with surprise not
wholly unmixed with satisfaction, that the Italian
organ-grinders had become scarce, and great was
people’s joy thereat, until one day a thieves’ den
was raided by the police, and the remains of 17
children of the land of song were found buried in
one room. All these had been murdered for the
sake of their teeth, and this is probably one rea-
son why Australian speculators grew so shy of a
home-trip with a team of aboriginal cricketers.
* * *
There was trouble at Tarana (N.S.W.),
recently, when two parties of excursionists found
that there were only buggies enough to carry half
of their joint number to Jenolan. One party con-
sisted of saints of the parson species, the other oi
sinners of just about the average quality. True
to their own teaching, the parsons had taken “ no
thought for the morrow,” and had not imitated
the sinners in wiring for buggies, but as soon as
the train hove to, the saints gripped their impedi-
menta (sinful things of this world such as Glad-
stones and portmanteaux) and went for those
buggies a? a covetous alligator goes for the suc-
culent calf. That’s how the row began. '1 * IC
worldlings clearly were entitled to the traps—the
salt of the earth were as clearly in possession, and
there was no one to enforce the writ of ejectment.
The former party appealed to their reverences
honour, and the parsons calmly replied that they
had left it all at home; then they appealed to
them as gentlemen, hut the hitter sarcasm io*
volved merely stirred up natural resentment. So
after a delay of a couple of hours, the worldlings
suffered the buggies to go on, for they saw the
signs of rain and storm were sitting on the moun-
tain brow and the road was long and rough.
The sinners stayed in comfortable quarters a
Tarana while the clergy went on, and were me
by rain and icy wind which so sharpened their
appetites that whenever they left the table alter
meals during the trip there wms nothing else tha
they could leave except the cruets and spoons.
From the conduct of these good men it is though
they were a set of clerical Pooh-Bahs who wished)
by ripping up the religious and social code, to
humiliate that pride which under the form of sel •
righteousness has lived with the parson family to
generations.
* * *
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —lt is my nll ®“
fortune to have to travel the country for brea •
There is no little Pedlington from Dan to Bee
sheha in which my tent has not been pitche
and from the force of early associations I have -
habit of going to church whenever I have on an)


thing new that fits me. I get along with the
Amening, &c., rightly enough, wondering what
there will be for dinner, peacefully and reverently
like a churchwarden. lam not going to make
fun of the parson, poor devil —it's not so very rosy a
game, struggling to look pious and spiritual in
public on a sweltering day in spite (f a 14-stone
body and a countenance oily and broad with the
humour of preaching resignation to a nodding
congregation already too near the borders of con-
tentment. No, the parson I have become accus-
tomed to, but the choir makes me shudder. O,
dear girls, eschew the choir ! It will never bring
you a husband ! As soon as you begin to wear
long dresses cease, I implore you, to sing in pub-
lic. Although I know quite well that you are
singing t 6 the praise and glory and all that, the
young marrying men don’t. They say you are
screaming for notoriety and for something to
marry. Besides, very few women can scream
eloquently (without their hands tangling in some-
body’s hair), and you are not one of the few. And
the assisting to ape the customs of great European
churches, which have facilities for making the
musical part of the Church service a treat, brings
you into ridicule, and is an insult to the musical
taste of the bulk of the congregation, who, indivi-
dually, it is probable, would do less well than do
you ; but then, perhaps, each has the delicacy to
refrain from attempting to do what they see is in
your case so pretentious a failure. I know you
will forgive me the truth I am speaking, and I
think sufficiently well of you to hope that you
will help in persuading your simpler sisters to sit
in the body of Ihe church, and discontinue
their frantic efforts to bring their small accom-
plishments before the public and possible suitors.
Sing by all means if you must, but let it be beside
the tea-kettle, dear, until you have learned—if
ever you can —how painfully funny the “ singing
of the choir” is in the ears of all who have heard
singers sing.—Dubbo.
* * *
There was presence of min 1 shown in the
case of the young lady who sat in an alcove at
an evening party with a fascinating young mili-
tary man, her little niece on her knee to play
propriety. Suddenly the company was electrified
by the exclamation of the child : —“ Kiss me, too,
Aunt Alice! ” But the sudden shock was suc-
ceeded by a feeling of relief, as Alice
calmly replied—“ You should not say, ‘ Kiss me
two, dear ; you should say, “ Kiss me twice.’ ”
* * *
This story is about a girl named Bridget.
She was a slavey and wielded the di3h-clout in a
Victorian back settlement, but she was also a
; oney young lady when it was her day out, and
she re solved to go as “ Australia” to a fancy dress
ball. So she waited on a local artist and called
for tenders for painting a dress all over with emus,
kangaroos, and sich. The lowest offer, £3 3s ,
was, however, beyond her means, and at last she
arranged to pay 12s. Gd. and get as much live-
stock as could be thrown in for the money. The
result was one thin and bilious-looking kangaroo,
one sheep in the last stage of emaciation, and a
wizened lamb that had been apparently born old.
This was hardly enough to travel on as “Aus-
tralia,” but Bridget was equal to the emergency
she went as “The Destroying Drought.”
* * *
When are we going to have cremation in
Australia ? This question is asked because the
writer was the other day shown the bill for the
burial of a poor man whose inexperienced rela-
tives, overwhelmed with grief at their loss, had
permitted the undertaker to have carte blanche in
the matter. The amount demanded was £27 10s ,
and the bill ran thus "
To coffin covered with superfine B. cloth and mounted
with registered furniture, linings, and ruffles &c. ; use of
state hearse, with urns complete, three mourning coaches,
eight advts., grave fees, and undertaker s attendance, &c.,
All 10s.
Nor was this all. The grave-site (£6 65.) had to
be paid for, and there were in addition the clergy-
man's fee, and so on. By the way, Dr. Cremation
Creed will be interested to know that the Ameri-
can poetess, Ella Wheeler Wilcox, writes thus
prettily of cremation “ Snowy clothing enve-
lopes the body. The door swings noiselessly open.
The iron cradle disappears in a glory of crimson
light, as a dove flies into the crimson sunlight and
disappears from you.” After this churchyards
will scarcely retain their popularity.
* * *
The English papers are making unkind
remarks about Miss Howick and Mr. Clarke. Mr.
C. i 3 a married man and Miss H. is a blushing
young innocent of 15 summers. Circumstances
threw them together and they loved. Nought
but the inconvenient Mrs. Clarke stood ’twixt
them and bliss unspeakable. In their dilemma
the ingenuous Miss Howick made a suggestion
which we recommend to the careful consideration
of married men. She advised hor lover to ad-
minister unto his wife a glass of sherry every
morning on ail empty stomach —for a slow poison.
It was so uncommonly slow that the ardent pair
couldn’t wait. They fled. The man is being pro-
secuted for abducting the little innocent, and the
“ poison ” story is common property. The Press,
as aforementioned, is very rough on the giddy
pair, and the London market has been cleared of
sherry. Every married lady has discovered that
her husband wants “ keeping up ” with two
glasses of “ Amontillado” before breakfast. At
latest dates the men were taking their poison
without a murmur, but no deaths were reported.
* * *
Murderer Caffrey has some original ideas.
His alleged proposal that as the presence of Grace
Graham on board the cutter Sovereign of the Seas
created dissension between himself and his mate
Penn, the girl should be shot and thrown over-
board, comes upon one with all the force of a re-
velation. If when, as often happens, jealousy,
Verging almost on murder, arises on board a P.
and O. or Orient liner through the smiles of a
lady-passenger, the fair smiler were calmly de-
spatched and committed to the deep by order of
the captain, a vast amount of trouble would be
saved, but it is to be feared that public opinion
has not yet been educated up to this point. Ac-
cording to the Sydney Globe, by-the-bye, Penn is
a pleasant looking young man; but the Even-
ing News thinks he carries Cain on his
forehead. We pin our faith, however, to
the Globe, for whenever a citizen is run in the
News spots him as a brutal-looking villain whose
face i-j in league against him, and who has murder
branded in every wrinkle of his jaw. This is the
result of being in the dock ; even the News itself
if planted there would probably have a slaughter-
ous, yet imbecile, expression, and would look as if
it should be hanged on suspicion. “ Place the
most honest and pleasing face behind these
spikes,” said Mr. Dailey once in bitter sarcasm,
“ and it at once becomes a face that expresses
every passion.” We don’t mean, of course, to im-
ply that the News has a pleasing face, or an
honest one either —we wouldn’t say such a thing
for the world; but we are prepared to bet it would
be a very suspicious-looking object under the cir-
cumstances Mr. Dailey described.
4 OCLOCK TEA
In England croquet is again fashionable.
The Oarington hash-foundry is eclipsed—the Carington
gold-field now takes front rank.
On Friday evening Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell, of Etham,
Darling Point, gave a b ill at which about 30J guests were
present.
Mrs. Sydney Want gave a very successful “ small and
early” at her residence, Buckhurst, Kose Bay, on Friday
evening the loth.
The officers of the Victorian army intend giving a grand
ball during Cup week, and have sent invitations to Major-
General Richardson and officers of the N.S.W. forces.
The Quirindi Gaiety Club held one of their “ At Homes ”
in Whittaker’s Hotel, Quirindi, on the Bth inst. About 70
guests were present, and the affai • was a marked success.
Mrs. J. I. Heeley gave a most successful Cinderella party
at Cranbrook House, Young, on the 9th inst. Dancing was
carried on till 12 o’clock, and the entertainment was a
decided success.
At Rose Bay, Sir John Hay kindly gave a treat to the
deaf, dumb, and blind on 13th inst. After a dinner the
guests played cricket, rounders, &c. Some —not the dumb
sang songs and others recited.
.We are glad to report that no one was severely hurt in the
frantic crush at Herr Kretschinanu’s concert the other night,
when the stage gave way and the whole combination of talent
and broken boards went down together.
The Mayor of St. Peter's gave a ball to the aldermen and
their friends on the 13th inst. About 120 persons were pre-
sent, and if any wished to grumble, they suppressed their
feelings, so that the affair may be termed a success.
Canterbury has a team of good-natured amateur minstrels,
who last week sang in aid of a destitute widow. The singing
was, therefore, really good, and as the funds are for real
charity, we are glad they totalled a con iderable amount.
“ Th-a-a-nks I” is all one often gets for a lot of trouble.
When anybody drawls out “ Th-a-a-a-nka,” under such cir-
cumstances, it is now the custom for the other fellow to
abruptly say “ Welks,” which is the short for “Welcome.
A social was tendered to Alderman Whiting, of Leichhardt,
at the Albert Hall on the sth inst. Dancing commenced
about 9 o'clock and continued tills am., and some good
songs were given by way of variety. There was a very large
attendance, and as regards the ladies it is only necessary to
say they were all lovely; so were their dresses.
We read that “ when the ‘ colonial gang’ visited Liverpool
(Eng.) the N.S.W. clerk of the peace, Mr. A. C. Fraser, was
selected to respond on behalf of the visitors, to the infinite
disgust of Mr. R. B. Smith, M.L.A. The same thing hap-
pened at Chester and at Eaton Hall, where nothing but the
presence of the Duke of Westminster prevented a fracas.
The master plumbers of Sydney feel with us about concerts,
and consequently when they hire the Protestant Hall, they
do not waste any good wind in song until they have laid in a
vocal supply of beef and beer. This they did 9n the 13th
inst., on the occasion of presenting Mr. Bain, their sec. with
a gold watch and chain. We believe more in plumbing than
before.
In the marriage-agreement between Lord Oastlerosse (late
ADC. to Sir Henry Loch and Miss Baring) it is stipulated
that all children of the marriage shall be brought up Roman
Catholics. The lady is a daughter of a member of the great
banking firm; Lord Castlerosse is the eldest son of Lord
LCenmare, an Irish peer, who is “ stone-broke” over the ‘ no
rint” business.
The Bathurst Bachelors’ Quadrille Club held their annual
ball and banquet in the local School of Arts on the 6th inst.
The ball consisted chiefly of danciny, and the banquet of
victuals, both of which were very much enjoyed. A number
of the ladies appeared in fancy costume, the Duchess of
Devonshire,” 44 Snow,” and 44 Romp being perhaps the
most admired.
The fancy-dress ball held in the Masonic Hall, West Mait-
land, recently, by the Our Boys' Social Club, was a colossal
success The dancers numbered upwards of 80, and 200
visitors looked on. Mafcy of the costumes were really
elegant, among them being courtiers, pirates, kings, queens,
the thread-bare Nancy Lee, a peasant, a policeman, and a
parson. In spite of the two last named, the affair was con
ducted soberly and orderly.
A successful ball was given by Mr. A. P. West to his pupils
lon the evening of the 13th inst. The French cotillon was
danced in a most graceful and perfect way ■ limelight being
thrown on the scene added very much to the picturesque re-
sult M ost of the ladies were in evening dress, the remainder
in fancy costumes. A pretty dress was composed of claret
velvet, with overskirt of pale pink erfipe. Another was a
lovely shade of mauve with half-a-dozen rows of mauve
velvet round the bottom of the skirt, and a tablier of cream
lace A handsome dres3 was blood-red satin with rich black
lace trimmings. An elaborate gown was dark green plush
with overskirt and bodice of embossed green silk.
The love of bad mu3ic that characterizes the Australian,
and makes the Italian go o le step lower, found an expression
of its sentiments last week in a concert at St. Barnabas
Church Upwards of 500 lovers of art rolled up, and there
was the usual amount of high-toned agony gone through on
fiddles, pianos, and other instruments that have gone far to
make modern civilization a bad exchange for primitive
savagery. The amateur concert fiend has a fairly strong
grip on this land, and is not likely to die soon. And yet the
cultivated professional coneert-singer. can’t make salt in
Sydney. By the way, the footballers, the other evening, left
leather-hunting to show an audience at Sydney Protestant
Hall what they could do in the musical line. They didn’t
kick a single goal, and had better stick to leather.
There is to be a barmaid-show in Sydney
towards the end of the month. However, that is
nothing new. To the bald-headed Sydney man
life is nothing but an eternal barmaid-show.
The blue-Tory townspeople of Windsor
have burned a parson in eiiigy because he stated
that the place was in an unsanitary condition. The
contiguity of a Queen and Court makes these
people so uncommonly nice that they can’t bear
even the mention of a bad smell.
Thanks to the “ Timaru poisoning case,”
N.Z. promises to take a good position this year in
the colonial slaughter competition. The only
weak point in the affair is it is not yet ab-
solutely certain that anybody was killed, but
the prisoner, Hail, seems to be a genius who
is capable of lending an artistic finish even to an
attempted corpse. He is the nephew of a late
Premier who had the ill luck to be made a
K.C.M.G., and this family disgrace demoralised
him. His wife fell ill, and, like a good husband, he
got a lady friend to nurse her and made love him-
self to the nurse when off duty. But as Mrs.
Hall grew worse the doctor became suspicious,
and a search revealed the fact that Hall
was a walking chemist’s shop with antimony
in almost every pocket; that there was the
same poison in the invalid’s food, drink,
medicine, and, in short, in everything where it
could be crowded in ; that the house was
heavily insured and was stored with kerosene and
other combustibles, while the arrangements
pointed to a scheme for burning the place down
with the helpless wife inside ; and, lastly, two
well-thumbed volumes on slaughterous drugs
were found in the prisoner’s bedroom. After his
arrest it was also discovered that Hall was
at the last financial gasp, and 12 forgeries are
already charged against him. Then his father-in-
law’s corpse was exhumed and the stomach
prospected, a suspicion having arisen that he was
also started across the Jordan with a mysterious
pain in his inside, and that his son-in-law had
feloniously filled him up with drugs before he
went; in the result, the old gentleman crushed
18ozs. to the ton in antimony. This discovery
caused a panic, and there now seems a chance of
the whole graveyard being turned outside in in
the search for more victims, for it is remembered
that Hall’s relatives have been a short-lived race
of late years, and some troublesome people are
anxious to discover the reason why.
BRIEF MENTION.
A bar-made show—The N.S. W. Assembly.
The Jewish Day of Atonement.—Settling
Day.
A night of labour.— The Eight Hour
banquet.
Queensland Times boasts a Chinese sub-
scriber. Poor John evidently can’t read.
N.S.W. Parliament won’t go to the coun-
try. They'd sooner go to the bar of the House.
Cunnamulla Express says that “the Bris-
bane mail was delayed by the dew.” “Mountain
dew?”
One Murphy, in love, has tried to suicide
at Melbourne. “ Mashed ” potato —a love-struck
Murphy.
The Mongolian must now go. He has just
robbed the hen-roost of the editor of the Nymaokk
(N.S.W.) Star.
The Brisbane immigration agent “doesn’t
believe labour matters are so bad as represented.”
No immigration, no agents.
“ Blessed are the meek, for they shall in-
herit the earth.” Of courso this passage refers to
that meek and lowly lot the Irish landlords.
An Invercargill (N.Z.) paper reports that
“ a digger who believes ho is the man referred to
as lost in the bush ” has beon found. His dis-
covery was owing to the energy of a policeman
who believes he is the constable referred to as the
most officious ass in the province.
EIGHTY-TWO AND ADORED BY HEBE.
A lot of Sydney parsons ob-
ject to the setting-up of a crucifix
in St. Andrew’s Cathedral. No won-
der : the cross isn’t the emblem of
theii religion.
A Nineteenth Century
writer enquires “ Are Animals
Happy ? ” That man has evidently
never seen a N.S.W. Legislator
beaming over a whisky glass.
The Sydney Evening News
has found something which it con-
siders “ unfit for publication”—even
in the News. Is any discovery
of modern science to be compared
with this
Queensland members, in de-
bating the Estimates last week, , in-
sisted upon improvements in the
gaol accommodation of the colony.
It is ever a beautiful sight to see
men providing for their old age.
Nineteen votes were given
last week for the first reading of the
Women’s Franchise Bill in the S.A.
Assembly. It will shortly be neces-
sary to enfranchise the women of
Adelaide, as all the men will soon
be in gaol.
A Spanish soldier has been
awakened by the bagpipes from a
fifteen months’ stretch of catalepsy.
After this we confidently look for-
ward to the bagpipes superseding the
time-payment harmonium in subur-
ban churches.
There is a Scotchman, a squatter on the
Murrumbidgee, one M’Dougal, who will only em-
ploy his countrymen, and will tell you so. One
day he had refused an Englishman a job, and the
latter went on to Narandera and happened to
attend a play on the same evening. The piece
opened by a kilted savage rushing on the stage,
brandishing a claymore and shouting, “Where
are all my brave Highlanders?” “Up at M'Dou-
gal’s, every blanked one of them !’ yelled the reten-
tive visitor.
Apuleius, in his story of the “ Golden Ass,’
declares that “ if you review all the greatest enor-
mities that have been committed in the memory
of mankind you will not find a single poor man
among the perpetrators,” and a far greater
authority than Apulieus has left it recorded that it
is easier for a camel to slip through the eye of a
needle than for a rich man to get to heaven. The
Ashfield (Sydney) Debating Society has burst up
all those fads, however, by deciding by a large
majority that poverty produces far greater vice
than riches.
Melbourne man out for a holiday in the
Far West had done a long day’s ride, and was
dismounting, tired, dusty, and hungry at a bush
hostelry. Visions of victuals flitted across his
mind, and then through the open window he
heard the silvery voice of the landlady : “ John,
just stick the jam-tin by the fire to draw the ants
out and swish the blow-flies off the meat and give
it a good shake, and we’ll have some supper.”
The lady, who was suffering from sandy blight,
was at the time wiping her eyes with a towel she
used for polishing the glasses out of which the
guests drank. Such is life in the boundless
wilderness.
Perhaps the N.S.W. public do not know
that if a man is “wanted” and tracked by a
blackfellow and a whitefellow (policemen), on the
return journey at night he has to sleep hobbled to
the nigger. This occurred out West some time
since, and the prisoner w T as rash enough to try to
escape whilst the “ trap ” was drunk in the bar of
a pub. The darkie, however, was a great bruiser
and gave him an unmerciful “bashing,” which
kept him quiet till Sir Robert had had his morning
brandy and soda. In justice to the tracker it
must be stated that he reported the whole affair
to the sergeant.
No parson is a humorist —the parson who
isn’t fit to be a parson alone excepted. Here is an ex-
tract from Glad Tidings, a little Sydney Metho-
dist print, run, no doubt, by some dull, badly-paid
well-meaning clergyman :—“ At the same open-air
gathering stood a poor fellow, a victim to the
drink-fiend, who had formerly been a skilled
artizan, and had worked at the ornamental stone-
work on the pillars of our Newington College.
Moved by the addresses of the speakers he was
among the penitents ....
Ere he left, he professed to rest his weary heart on
Christ. Early the next morning he wan pi Iced up
a lifeless corpse in the Domain.” The italics are
our contemporary’s. Who but a parson could,
under the circumstances, have been guilty of
italicising this sentence ?
When Judge Dowling opened the District
Court at Penrith on Thursday last the crowd that
came crushing and rushing, and tearing and
I swearing into the building was so great that tho
I “ foorco ” had to take the locks off the doors and
scratch the paint off tho walls in order to accom-
-1 modate their visitors. “ What on earth is the
matter with the people ?” inquired the astounded
Judge; “has to-day been proclaimed a publio
holiday, or have they mistaken this court for a
Salvation Army Barracks?” “Not much, yer
anner,” replied a guileless gentleman in blue
“ but y’ see it’s a terrible wet day, an’ as ivery-
body expects a good sazen, they’ve taken a holi-
day, and come along t’ hear th’fun.” “Fun!”
exclaimed the horror-stricken Judge; “do they
call this fun ?” And then he bowed his horse-hair
head, and wept bitterly, like the boy in the play
when the Chinaman kissed his mother.
Hodge was sick and in a state of extreme
debility. “Do you often take a bath ?” asked the
doctor who had been called in. “Bath! Naw
but I heard once upon a toime that my mother
had them sev’ral toimes.”
A queer fact in natural history. Accord-
ing to Seeley’s lately-published book, in some of
the Swedish lakes large birds of prey are in the
habit of swooping down on the pike basking at
the surface of the water. If the pike is more
powerful than the bird, the latter, unable to ex-
tricate his talons, is borne to the bottom and
drowned. The flesh of the pike heals with the
talons of the bird in its back, while the bird be-
comes converted into a skeleton, which is carried
about by the pike. One skeleton, long exhibited
by a pike in Lake Wetter, had acquired a greenish
tinge, and was regarded by the fishermen as a
harbinger of misfortune. Another skeleton, car-
ried by a pike in Lake Fryksdal, was known to
the fishermen for some time as the water sprite,
and they fled from it in fear. It is said to have
appeared like the horns of an elk or reindeer
moving rapidly over the water ; but at last the
pike was shot and the water sprite shown to be
the skeleton of a sea-eagle.


MEDICAL EXPERTS.
THEIR TESTIMONY ON A SUBJECT OF
UNIVERSAL AND VITAL IMPORTANCE.
In the average medical man prejudice and pro-
fessional caste is very strong. He is educated in
this atmosphere, and his associations in after years
hut strengthen his early teachings. Yet there
are minds in the profession, active, alert, vigorous,
abreast and ahead of their day and generation,
who refuse to be bound and stand still. If they
cannot cure with their list of preparations they are
willing to try others, albeit they are of another
school, or mayhap no school at all. If a new
theory for the successful combating of disease is
advanced, or a new preparation for the alleviation
of suffering humanity is discovered, they do not
cry it down because it is new, or because it comes
to them out of the beaten track of precedence.
Scores of reputable physicians, becoming dis-
couraged at the results of their prescriptions in
their own cases and in those of their patients, have
put aside prejudice and used Warner’s Safe
Remedies for the diseases for which they are re-
commended with the most gratifying and perma-
nent results. They have freely attested these
facts over their own signatures, and have gladly
given their testimony that for the cure of diseases
of the kidneys, liver, and urinary organs,
“ Warner’s Safe Cure ” lias marked an epoch in
medical jurisprudence. Read the attested facts
from men who have graduated from the best
medical colleges with highest honours and have
made the science of medicine a life-long study.
R. A. GUNN, M.D., Dean of the Uuited States
Medical College, New York.—l had everywhere
heard of Warner’s Safe Cure, but somewhat hesi-
tated to recommend it—but a personal friend,
whose application for insurance on his life was re-
jected on account of Bright’s Disease came to me.
A chemical and microscopical examination of his
urine revealed quantities of albumen and granular
tube casts, confirming the Bright’s Disease. After
trying all the usual remedies in vain, I directed
him to uso Warner’s Safe Cure. Within four
months no tube casts could be found, and only a
ace of albumen ; and, as he expressed it, he felt
perfectly well.” After this demonstration of its
power, I prescribed it in full doses in both acute
nd chronic Bright’s disease, with the most satis-
actory results. I find that in Bright’s Disease it
eems to act as a solvent of albumen ; to soothe
and heal inflamed membranes, and wash out epi-
thelial [debris which blocks up the tubuli uriniferi
—urine-bearing tubes] ; and to prevent the destruc-
tive metamorphosis of tissue
W. M. S. CLINE, M.D., Tom’s Brook, Va,-1
think it is my duty to state what benefit I de-
rived from Warner’s Safe Cure. I had a frequent
desire to urinate night and day as often as ten
times or more an hour. Pain over right kidney
extending down the ieg, extreme wakefulness,
failure of strength, dark-coloured urine, and later,
oily and sudsy, with a large per cent, of albumen.
I used various medicines prescribed by eminent
physicians, and experienced no relief. I was loth
to use proprietary medicine, but, having heard
Warner’s Safe Cure so highly recommended, I tried
a few doses. Prom the first the medicine helped
me, and I experienced untold relief. I tested my
urine daily, and in less than a month all traces of
albumen disappeared. To all who suffer from
kidney or bladder trouble, I can cordially com-
mend Warner’s Safe Cure.
A. J. BENEDICT, M.D., Watertown, N.Y.—I
Used Warner’s Safe Cure and other Safe remedies
daily in my practice with the most gratifying re-
sults. I find them after 4 years of practical ob-
servation all they are recommended to he. For
diseases of the kidneys, liver, and urinary organs,
they are specifics.
Dr. B. H. MARS, 1540 Carondolet Ave., St.
Louis, Mo.—After using all remedies known to
me as a regular graduate and practising physician
in one or two case 3 of kidney disease, or Bright s
Disease, I concluded to perscribe Warner’s Safe
Cure, and it worked like magic with the patient,
entirely restoringhim, which was astonishing to met
Dr. E. MORSE, Ashtabula, o.—l have pre-
scribed Warner’s Safe Cure in several cases of
kidney and bladder.trouble, and always with good
results.
1. B. DOWLING, M.D., Haddock, Va.-I have
advised Warner’s Safe Remedies in several cases
of renal diseases, and in two thdy effected radical
cures.
THOMAS EDW. STACK, Smyrna, N.Y.—I
have used Warner’s Safe Cure in the treatment of
both acute and chronic disorders of the liver. I
find it a specific for torpid liver. I take great
pleasure in recommending Warners Safe Cuie to
the public and profession.
S. W. RAMSAY, M.D., Albia, La.—l hereby
certify that I have been a practising physician for
27 years, and for many chronic cases in my prac-
tice do recommend Warner’s Safe Cure.
JAMES D. BRAGG, M. D., Bridgeport, Ct,, I
speak highly of Warner’s Safe Remedies. They
have proved the best medicines for humanity yet
devised.
C ORRYETTE, M. D., Wyandotee, Ks.—With
Warner’s Safe Cure I have cured several cases of
Briffht’s disease and other very bad kidney dis*
orders. I believe it far superior to anything
known to the medical profession. It is one of my
daily prescriptions, and of great service in eiery
instance.
A MIS-STEAK.
“The Gaol-Kitchenman who, in contravention of the regulation acceded to the requcst made
by murderer Reynolds, just before his execution that he be supplied with a fried steak,
has been reported to the Comptroller-General of Prisons”- Daily Paper.
GHOST: “I AM TERRIBLY OPPRESSED.”
KITCHENMAN: “YOUR CRIME WAS A TERRIBLE ONE.”-
GHOST: “IT’S NOT MY CRIME, IT’S THE FRIED STEAK. WHY THE DEUCE DIDN'T
YOU GRILL IT ? ”
Two babes were simultaneously christened
in Mudgee the other day. One was aunt to the
other. Who will talk about old maiden aunts
after this 2
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Blockings, 143 Pitt-street.
THE LITTLE ACHE IN SMALL OF BACK,
The slight pain over the hips, the weary worn-out Deling are
very significant and warn you of serious results that will
follow. Attend to them at once. Use Dr. Bell’s Bitters,
which will relieve these little aches and p.ins, and save you a
long spell of sickness, doctor's bills, &c.
An income-tax will surely come,
For money must be got,
And then the absent millionaires
Will get it rather hot;
But not a Treasurer would dare
For revenue to go,
And tax those masher suits as sold
By Summerfleld and Co.*
A Good Remedy for a Cold.— On going to bed
take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in
water or camphor mixture. The diaphoretic action
of this excellent remedy speedily produces a
general glow, followed by a free perspiration, dur-
ing which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is
obtained, and on waking in the morning the cold
will be found to have dissapeared. The certainty
of the action of Freeman’s Chlorodyne is very re-
markable in Ague; it frequently prevents an
attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Free-
man’s Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use
of Quinine, and in the tea gardens of India noth-
ing else is given for Ague and other forms of Fever.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
The man who “ wants but little here
below, &c., had better join the unemployed—or
the N.S.W. Freetraders.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.
While Parkes with Jennings, Dibbs with Clarke,
And Smith with Lyne disputes,
All men agree that Summerfield
Makes splendid masher suits.*
CLASSIFICATION OF GRIM.
E COLONY.
Taking £1,000,000 i 3 called a case of Genius
Two millions short ! That is the state
To which our funds are brought,
But Summerfleld’s bright summer suits
Are never cut too short. *
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rofms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BILLEE TAYLOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 23,
GRAND DOUBLE BILL.
TWO OPERAS by GILBERT and SULLIVAN,
THE SORCERER and
TRIAL BY JURY,
both works being given on a scale of completeness,
and for the first time in Sydney by
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily from
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
J\_ Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE POPULAR AND FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
THIRD WEEK. CONTINUED SUCCESS.
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
in the grand and entire change of programme,
BRIC-A-BRAC. BRIC-A-BRAC.
General Manager, Mr. PHILIP STUART.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
Lynch family bellringers.
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE.
To-night (Thursday)—Town Hall, Randwick.
To-morrow (Friday)—School of Art 3, Botany.
Monday, 25th Oct. —School of Arts, Ashfield.
Tuesday, 26th Oct. —School of Arts, Balmain.
Parramatta, Granville, &c., to follow.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
“Mr. Jones,” said the Manager, with cold severity to the
Accountant while all the tellers and ledger-keepers pricked
up their ears at his tone and manner* “ The Inspector is in
my room and Wishes to have a word with you.” When Jones
entered the manager’s room be was followed by that officer
who carefully closed the door after him, there was a buzz in
the bank. “ What’s Jones being up to?” “ I always said he’d
fiddle with the securities, first chance,” and so forth, was
whispered round.
Jones found the Inspector seated in awful state in the
manager’s chair.
“ Your salary,” Mr. Jones, said the Inspector, referring to
some notes “ is £450 a year.”
“ It is," faltered Jones, who didn’t like the boss’s tone.
“ And you have to maintain a wife and five children, I
think 1
“ Yes, sir.”
“ Your eldest daughter is quite a grown-up young lady
hey?’
“Quite so" stammered Jones, growing red and pale by
turns.
“ I am informed that you have no private source of income
Mr. Jones.
‘ I have not, sir.
“ Then, Mr. Jones, you will not be surprised when I inform
you that representations have been made to the bank, that
your wife and daughter habitually wear jewellery, when in
evening dress, of a class and costliness which is plainly in-
compatible with your means. I should like to know, Mr.
Jones, where you derive the money to purchase these beauti-
ful and expensive articles I hear of. They can’t be family
heirlooms, for I have the best information that the designs
are in the most recent taste.”
Poor Mr. Jones ceased to stroke the bald place on the back
of his head, and his eyes flashing fire, he retorted warmly
“so you considered me a thief because my wife and my
daughter wear such decorations as help to set off their at-
tractions. Do you think sir that your wife and your daughter
monopolize the right to suoh embellishments. Sir the
jewellery which sets off the lovliness of my daughter and the
matronly dignity of my wife, to the point of exciting the
jealous spitefulness of your daughter and wife (for I under-
stand now whence you derive your information) is Orients!
Gold Jewellery. It is as beautiful as the costliest articles and
yet its trifling cost enables my wife and daughter to appear in
the same society as yours without disadvantage and without
my being gudty of the thefts which you generously suspected
me guilty of. Your questions and your suspicions, your
manner and your attitude are alike insulting. I tender you
here my resignation and I have to inform you that my
daughter ic next month to be married to Mr. Woolsworth,
who has also asked me to accept the management of his
financial affairs, at a salary, sir, which your own manager
doer not enjoy 1 I wish you* good morning, sir.”
“Just to think,” grumbled the Inspector’s plain, sour
daughter that evening when her father had told her the event
of the morning and stormed at her and her mother for placing
him in so false a position ; “just to think that it’s all owing
to that Oriental Gold being so lovely and so cheap. To
snatch young Woolworth from under my very nose too."
ORIENTAL
GOLD
Is tho latest triumph of
Science. It is a noblo
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Odd. A legi-
timate use has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
of 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery.
No one can detect tho difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of tho fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Cent’s
Albert, Vs. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plainss., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
55.,-Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
iggipWescnd Iheseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less post age.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
474 George-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1882.
WE have again much pleasure in addressing
our customers and the public. The rapid
expansion of our business, and the repeated orders
we receive from customers who dealt with us as
far back as 1882, are gratifying proofs that our
Goods and our method of doing business give
satisfaction.
We continue the same system. We buy direct
from the makers in London, Paris, and New York
all such Goods, Watches, See., as are not the pro-
duct of our Company’s own works. We add a
fair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CASH,
thus avoiding bad debts, and steering clear of the
evil system of charging rates which compel paying
customers to make good the default of bad marks
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTI M.
The full value must accompany any order, or no attention
will be paid to it. Payment can be made by Postage Sta , iir<
of any Australian colony up to £1 worth, by Cheque sr > f
P. O. 0., payable to the Oriental Gold Co.
The Goods ordered will be sent at once. If they a'-e not
approved they may be returned per first post after deliver
uninjured, and we will, according to th? wish of the custo aer-
either substitute another article to same value, or
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN FULL
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charges.
Thus: Suppose you want a Brooch—you describe, as nearly
as possible, the sort of pattern you prefer, or you leave the
choice entirely to us, and you remit, say 10s.
We endeavour to match your description, if sent, or n any
case we do our best to please and satisfy you.
On receiving the Brooch, or other article, if you don t entirely
like the pattern or style, write by first mail explaining in wh; 1 "
respect you would like it to differ—returning the lirooc l m
the same good order as you received it—thereupon we win
try again, and send a second one to same value.
Or, if you don’t like the first Brooch at all, and want yoof
money back, we will send back the full sum, less the postal
outlay incurred.
We make this pledge in all seriousness, although
something ®f a light heart; because, although we have tmoa
thousands of orders by post on same terms, durum lne
four years we have been in business at our present address—
-474 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
t3T WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE SI? GI.K
ARTICLE RETURNED!
Customers will save themselves a good deal of trouble wF n
they desire to have a choice among numerous patterns cy
ordering a sample parcel and sending on the money for saw-
We then send a variety, each article of which is marked
its price, and the customer selects one or more articles a"
returns the rest, whereupon we send back the balance ct tn
money by next post.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM,
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
smnmim
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
Royal standard theatre
Castlereagh - Street.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
Dion Boucicault’s most popular Drama, in 4 acts,
THE OCTOROON,
or Life in Louisiana.
FRIDAY EVENING NEXT,
production of Shakespeare's
AS YOU LIKE IT.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON
rpHE above Hall is now the most completely -
1. furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding's Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms —Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron," “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
4 Much Ado About Nothing," “As You Like It,”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“A RING OF IRON.”
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Piaxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the meet wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children's Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Kescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
| * M. RILEY
* • (late of the Detective Force),
Plivate Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he \e in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
fxtvuiti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
rrn npt.» attend to all business entrusted to h care.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.6., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager;
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Hay market, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
ism
v?
O
<b
m
V!
•tM
4*
o' o tv
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
UDOLPHO VTOLFES SON &-C 0
V<^
I7CREMUN
ad.
rci
a 7 LCV
c
/c?p
4a?ja^!e, xz/
«*4 7/ A
djo c
/ &€jsX y£Cn-'} r ~&r>
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of sBl Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just lauded 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL NLALL3L,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING!
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler's.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney,
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
KAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
'I
-
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ A N TIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &e.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney October 19, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a tile of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Contract 1, Bourke
Water Supply-
Construction of Settling Reser-
Yoirs, Boiler-house, &c., Con-
tract 2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipes, Valves, &c.,
Contract 3, ditto ditto ditto
Supply and Erection of Engines,
Boiler, &c., Contract 4, ditto
ditto ditto
Supply during 1887 of Softwood
Timber, Great Southern and
Western Railways
Supply during 1887 of Hardwood
Timber, Great Southern and
Western Railways
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Court-house Camp- I
belltown
Repairs, Courthouse, Merriwa |
Erection of Courthouse, Narrabri
Residence for Manager, Retort
House, &c., Gas Works,
Werris Creek, Great Northern
Railway
Supply of Fodder required for
Shunt Horses, Great Northern
Railway, during 1887
Collection and Delivery of Rail-
way Parcels in Bathurst
Tuesday,
November 2,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Wilga, Great Western Rail-
way-
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Byrock, Great Western Rail-
way
Erection of Shed, &c., Police
Barracks, Parramatta
Wednesday,
November 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, &c., GaolatDubbo
Purchase of Right to Collect
Ferry Dues during 1887
Tuesday,
November 16,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNK,
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street,
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
'■
&
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
Prepared from Pure Drug-s and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to mal e quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualific d assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the be A quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Markkt-ST between Pitt and George-streets.
Branch Houses : —Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills ; and Suva, Fiji
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered tl rough
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactui ed.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street only.


Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CUKES where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as it
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CORE AND A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder,
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains in the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urine.
HEED THE WAEITING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following .
KIDNEY
disease'
/ Pain in Small of Back, Pam m
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
used without good effect.
DYSPEPSIA
{Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach,Bad Taste
in the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note. — Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Helps Bitters
Manufacturing 1 Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, EEHON&f3O., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low I’rice of J 65 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
Tfeb,
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
t ,—txlllu: 0
HATS CAPS k
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY |
tffiaostte LassetCzr#
A
v-’ip
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON BROTHERS,
rig
“mm,
as
“WM “g “t:
{3‘14“} W]: M
Ml Mn
N H ;f\~f‘“-':‘
w
11,}!
L" \ H 1‘ m
«mM-M
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
„ and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. .For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
.light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
S3T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
Ph D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now he also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
QUOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMUS
(What we do we do well.)
a - “I
,l” .
I , ‘ . ;
‘ ‘ ‘ h. '. W” -
m1 .w Lin:
/ a ‘ \ u.
lf'lwxﬂ 1X» w_;. J"
:‘W‘Qﬁ-q‘ ‘
“\V .
mx . A. ‘
7X. A
.. . s
3’63} ~;:\ ’
3; -~ -. \_ l
_._\ \ .. . .
f. \
I
‘ ‘
OUR PHOTO.—If you feel
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and withal
truthful photograph of yourself,
accept what is but well-meant
counsel, and at once pay a visit
to the vestibule leading to Gal-
leries in Sydney Arcade. There
you can inspect a choice collec-
tion of portraiture (the every-day
work of Creelman and Co.) the
excellence of which, we venture
to say, ought at once to determine
your choice in their favour, and
take away all doubt as to the
proper place to go to.
Prices: C.-11.-V., 15s. 5 Cabinets, 30s.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, Sydney Arcade.
WJ O H N S O N ,
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
CAlJlillSG IN ACL ITS KHANCMKF.
C. H. SMITH & SO N,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
FATS CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
Z CaJ)uiets
taken ft
i
on.
J
78
vM
ROlrW/u/A/tfS
m
! Si
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautifu-l
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-strect.
Scld 6j SHOE lEJLEBS. 6898E8S Bt BSUCCISTS.
rsxzs irraiTj.
BOSTON, 1839.
VIENNA, 1878.
PHII-At 1373^
BAUTHAWAfJ
ILS EUiSII
Peerless
Gloss.
I mmfti ia B nrj
family. It Hacks ui
pcfisircs Lafiss’ mi
Children’s Easts,
Shas3, Bsbben t:J
Satchels, vltl-oisl
brushing. Il lay a
gives satisfesiisa.
la csncedsd Is 83
‘THE STHDIE2L"
C. !» H AUTM AWAY & SOftS,
SSI ft 233 Congress Street, Bestoa,
MASS,. U.S.A
UMBRIMLAS
FffcfiOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
llave your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Kepairs neatly executed
Anything you require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MINNES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDXEY, N.S.W.
J SHOULD LSE IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
TLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Geqrge-street, Sydney.
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEOKGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/ft, 5/e, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6- *7/6, 21/. 25/. »«/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
o
ACGORDEONS
:t 7/0.10/6 12/6. 15/, 17 6
21-. t 5 -,so/-,40/-,tO £6
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
1«/ ft. 15/-, 23 -, 25/-. 30/-, to *2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS
at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-, 105/-, 1»0/-
to *SB.
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
~ The new ‘ ‘Reynolds" model
with double water key... 910
The new ‘ ‘Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/
M' '•
U\
M
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “Walter Howard” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
B3T Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. ier copy.
£5
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager.


RAW VASELINE.
2%
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
>
fd
&
0
o'*
fp E
<T
* G <k'f p 1 L it*
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
m
"tQh
HOLESALE MANUFACTURI
CONFECTIONER
420 fforge S*
jSYDJSWY
JAMES STEDMAN
£team works,Kent s t near Ermine ST
'lo*2o++*s CaJ\u cutO-wuu*
w on ocß oft SHOftresT rtcmce.
Codhthy A SmrrtHC On puts fiumrKY ATlftfCti
f1;
\\1 5/
i; C‘ 5%; ~
55‘ \\'\', 15$
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
SelliDg off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
> cooDoxTScrm
JT
Q u^ar R E FGR
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFBECTIONS
ONLY BY
mlThomas Ingham,
OCKHAM P T O N .
s
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PARIS, 1*78; CALC U TIA .1381,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA &. CYMBIPIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the (jiewth and
improving the appearance ot the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harn less
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VATER
an exceptionally fine perfume foi the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice t exotics.
Of all Dialers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSOIs',
2J, Old Rond Street, London.
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden
Lyre/’ *
.,.' ' ' I; 7
1'5.“ 17!"
V M _ , > ._ . .
' , 1:? a ‘-, f\ g2? :
big}??? ‘4 p 5; -_ _
J,;;}”'=,ﬁa¢ \ . ' =\\\ S f
:4: :3”! \ 1 \r,\ K -‘
123': 332 - £0; K \ .2
$1243:;_7,i3f‘ “350/ K; ‘ \:
3—5-5 1;; 5." . K.‘
, : 3’; 04 'f/ ‘ 5
en , £12: 2: j:
..-. E:
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
[Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 Little Collins-strcct, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures
We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all ".lasses of Furnituro, Crockery
Glassware, F.P. Ware Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &c.
Also,
OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OF BEDSTEADS,
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES.
Q LULi® JdD=ffl ;
®—sri to-
rn to-® -IMlBpißUiffllOffil
t
rom 'i
AT
WONDERFU]
§ PRICES.
TIIE £2 15a. BRASS MOUNTED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS, FULL SIZE, WITH EXTEND
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
a
L
l
>
to,
5^
-T
X/
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
Capital .... £25,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
R3' Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
[MANUFACTURING HATTERS.J
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EY
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
books, books, books.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
IP AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
w Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
:■ \ 5
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Begs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A choice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen's
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. £3T Price List on application.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requea
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maroaret-strekt, Wynwakd square, Sydney
S
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Hr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use ofalcohol ortobacGO, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure ANY case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Lv-rge boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. pir box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen -Feet, Bites of Inserts,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Cht mists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
B
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
um" ﬂwmm { ”
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI OUTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
V W m
.7"- -7’ y '7 i."
Austrian chairs
in Groat VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
w
sm
an
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
"VT OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
JJI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
44' ﬁgél-ﬁul
Hilf—
@ﬂﬂil
7-: a ' :7
,ﬂl'ljlyl
Drawing room cabi *
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
M
ffl
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
(.7521.
I
t 111""?
W543; :sj-J
HP :5!) ‘§‘%¢ _
‘1 .\n >. o? y
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O Connell and Spring Streets,
B
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates
1 BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
.:M.‘::.—,,
»—-:-~«- 33-h er /
‘. 521“" VVﬁsrmh‘q.»
r'eE-é—Z ’_;-.--,__ » '- 17; .
‘- ~:;—=x=fi»/_
%
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


The country needs rain is the thought that sustains our artist as
he lies in bed pending the drying of his things. '
How sweet to press the pillow
Of a cottage chamber bed,
And listen to the patter
Of the raindrops overhead.’ 1
Which is pretty and poetic
If the house is water-proof,
But suppose you had a landlord
Who declined to mend the roof.
This is the Mayor’s Jubilee party out fora picnic round the harbor.
Selector Jones : “I tell you what, Smith, this
rain will be the savin’ of my pumpkins. It’s just what
lve been prayin’ for. There’s nothing like faith.”
Selector Smith ; “ Confound your pumpkins. You
might have kept your faith bottled Up till I got my
scrub burned off. It’s unnoighbourly of you, Jones.”
Two souls with but a single mackintosh.
Mr. Daddleskip “ This rain will do a lot of good,
Miss Blinkinsulcker,"
Mrss B. : “ Yes, it will furnish dull people with
material for conversation, if nothing else.”
The Poetry and Prose of the Recent Rain.


iMBHITCM
exquisite \
to*&vu.d Mltly
BY THE PROPRIE TOR ,
fwsv ;
SAVLIt CYLI
TOOTHPASTE
1 U/JriJ/LLED J FOf\ ITS///l/SEPTIC
fido CLEANS! PROPERTIES.
T.B
MELHUISH , PHARMACEUTICAL IHEHIST
/34 IV /il /am SYD N£ Y^^4j
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S 3 OH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
WU‘Si'ESE
FOWLS OR OTHER
i. j
ANIMALS
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALL NOXIOUS INSECT^
FLEAS.FLtES. BEETLES MOSQUITO
COCKROACHES/* o **. 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
s*
cV
I
B&yAU CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHQt.ES/n.E
FELTON-GRIM WAD EWC®
- MELBOURNE.-r_
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
. the numerous imitations.
licit
N DESTRUCTIBLE
MARKING INK
JET BLACK
6d. and 1/- per Bottle,
t ABSOLUTELY INDELIBLE.
WILL NOT INJURE THE FINEST FABRICS.
' NO HEAT REQUIRED.
Sold oy Drapers, Chemists, Stationers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, &c., &o.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENRY LANCASTER,
Jys~~y fRQN
6>AJ*7jk
gog m
not AFFECTED
BY WEATHER
77T- 7
E TROUGH^
% AMHOT BE BROKEN
/- e/'TT&rjvs"
CALVA%%£TD rfg
CO/f/V £tSAf t
wmjuni
T WATER
YLiNDER
STRONGJfOCTtOUg
FOR MANY YEARSJ
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool*
washers, and station*
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, yentilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 G-EORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
OR.GLAJSTS!
SOLE AGENTS FOK THE
“SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,
PIANOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
t
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Abraham s pills,
the beeat liter remedy,
aii^®Par e d from Dandelion, nd free from the
t!f st Particle of mercurj mineral substance,
tw.. P°Pular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
thofJ So simple, yet most effective ; they can be
Whiffy recommended, bring a carefully pre-
Preparation, and the result of practical ex-
ilia ea e ' They overcome the worst form of
l haw[ es of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
to hear that they have not afforded
mea ‘ate relief.
4 34 GEORGE STREET.
° r >
=■ 73
o
z I
m >
to r-
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving for
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigor to the whole system. Prioe 4s. 6d.
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney,
N.S.W.; London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE
BAK INC
P Ofr
%
WAUGH'S
>?
&
AWU Laughs OHUf
obtained a
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR I
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
w‘z‘kfzv‘ V‘x‘ . / '
"MW? ' ‘ ' " if~
A ._ 1:24 {91” due" 53»
_ £3 . » ; we“ ‘
'lec PO MM
L4" F ~.~ ‘ - "V"
nu"y 214—; l I ‘3‘ V .
, i ' -~ ‘« ‘ \ ‘
.‘J a ‘ 7- 1 U "A
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT »
WAUGHS
CE IVEDTHE \ NTERN AT! ON AL
P R I z eiW ED Ar
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Siowir
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTEETH
'b
fOMPLEITESFT
V;>r L !>r
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
11l
1111!
Agents for New South Wales
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
TRAPP & BLLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
D" RIDCE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS,
505, 507, 507 J GEORGE STREET,
S 3? Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in J and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
PAPERHANGING S J
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER.
Alex. Borthwick,
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
3.
-i/'
te
E*BC
The horse in a race has been photographed oft,
Over hurdles and water jumps too ;
This amateur’s luck struck a patch that was soft,
The jump of the shy kangaroo!
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be had at
prices to suit all requirements.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 36 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
KM Send for Catalogue. 13Ji
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
■AJSTG-TJS &, ROBERTSON,
11* MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stock of <new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent by
mail to any part of Australia,


THOMAS GAUNT
WATCHMAKER
BOURKE STREET,
: MELBOURNE.
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEARLY OPPOSITE THE
POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable timekeepe
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery. : );
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
FRYS
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
•an ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best ALE OR PORTER.”— Lan-oet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Fowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac,
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaNM) MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
: ' Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
: Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. 6z> Co., Ol3CL.ci3a.ra.©.ti
And carry a Lange Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
. EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17, PITT STREET, Circular Quay. Sydney.
JEr- JEw- JmJh rw gnnn JL. LNJ 7
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive auditions to his WHOLESALE and
It EX AIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines’
"* 7 ■ and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which hag hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
it! ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
' Lowest Prioes obtainable in Sydney.
1 ' gST A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR,CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality , all returns-being-allowed far
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wha»f Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to «all your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following :
3,Bottles BRANDY 3Bottles WHISKY , 7 Bottles lOWNRicS’ RUM
itßottte JAMAICA RUM ÜBottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
Vie articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Oases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. ®. Order payable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KJINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail fine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE QF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURMTIHE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
C. R. YOUNG’S
COMMERCIAL
GULGONG
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
m
SAUC
f3!S:
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pern n *
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every botl"
bears their Signature thus —
■without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ssk }o) LEA and PEKBINS’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle a .
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse an
Alack well, London , SSc., Cr'c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World-^
Wholesale Agents : Montefiork,? Joseph ; David Cohen & Co., Sydney-
r '\
o
OOT .
' &
A'tfjAj
9
SHOE /JAZA^Ij
252 a George S* Jk
ale Peale unci' ffacnnurh
©
! | LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL ancl at 652 GEORGE S
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
'OFFICES,
~COKNER'of'KNNT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,”
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OE INTEREST
IN THIS CITY
Loans fromls. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
| per month.
""""Loans on Gbldjimd Slver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony,- i', i v.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan sind Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lO9-,000 sterling.
RESERVE, £96,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
•transacted-
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At (Mi, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, 6y Per-Cent.
6 Months, 3 Per Cent.
12 Months, Si Per Cent.
Current Accounts : Interest allowed en daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
STOREY, NOBLE & G °'
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents,
GORAKI, RICHMOND RlVBR^J^^
Try POGONOVTS# 1 .
MUSICAL INSTRUM®^
The Largest Assortment in the
705 GEORGE STRS$ a '
Send for Price List.
T
HE CLIMAX OF P® B
Colo 1110
f s
MONTSERRAT
siS*
LIME FRUIT JUICE
SOLD EVERYWHERE*
T. T. FODEN &
INDIA RUBBER D pP ° ’
20 ERSKINE STRB® T ’
Sydney, . Q %
For Every DescripU o3 "
INDIA RUBBER GOOD®'
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS. .
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine.
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Eatiibition awarded |the ONLY GOLDfIMEDAL for Crated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
