

THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 —No. 159 -Now Serial.
SATURDAY, MAY 29, 1886.
7fio«—6 a.
The Revolt of Labour.
The Bull
SATURDAY, MAY 29, 1886.
Throughout the civilised world of to-day,
wherever wealth has accumulated largely,
the labouring millions are in revolt against
the organised army of capitalists. A social
rebellion of those whose toil produces wealth
against those who are empowered by the aid
of modern laws to monopolise the profits of
labour is universally observed. Labour is
militant and aggressive: Capital is stolid and
defiant. The phases and manner of the
strife vary in each different land, but every-
where the causes conducing to the revolt
are substantially the same, and the object
aimed at is entirely so. In Belgium, 20,0C0
men have openly defied the laws, and are
endeavouring to wrest a share of the pro-
ducts of their own industry by force of
arms. Many in this army of rebels have
come from the coal-mines, wherein ;iOO,OOO
men were lately employed at an average
wage of less than 16s. a week. For want
of proper organization these miserable
wretches have had to submit to every con-
dition and extortion which avarice could
invent, or tyranny dare to impose. During
the last decade the weekly wage dole has
been reduced not less than 20 per cent, in
spite of the largely increased profits
on the mining operations, during the
same time. All legal means were used
to obtain concessions but Capital was
obdurate, and, inflated by the ease with
which the strike of last year was suppressed
laid still heavier burdens upon the segre-
gated workmen. But in doing so avarice
defeated its own ends, for the miners flouted
as suppliants, have been converted into de-
clared enemies, remorseless and desperate.
A civil war for human rights, Labour
against Capital, was, at the date of our
latest English exchanges, devastating Bel-
gium ; loss of life the cost of strife to
the former party, destruction of property
the penalty exacted from the latter. With
all their force, as has been the ease through-
out all history in similar conflicts, sectarian
religion and conservatism battled on behalf
of the oppressors. Loss fierce, but still in-
volving loss of property to one side, and
life to the other, has been the recent
struggle in America, and that demonstra-
tion was but the prelude to a general
campaign, which looms large in the distance.
The opposing forces are but organising for a
fresh encounter; the rebel, Labour, has been
repulsed, but his revolt has not been sup-
pressed. Ireland has been, and now is, the
theatre of a conflict similar in purpose, and
differing only in that the Irish demand a
share in the profit of their labour applied to
the lands, while the American workman
claims a portion of the wealth arising from
his skill in manufacturing. Nor is England
free from similar strife. Apart from the
continual conflicts of a local character
between masters and men there was the
riot of February 9 th, which, to the superficial
observer may seem destitute of cause, pur-
pose, or result; yet closely viewed it is
instinct with each of these attributes. Its
cause was the ever increasing discontent of
ttte working classes; its result was the ex-
tension of the relief system, and the acknow-
ledgment by the wealth-monopolisers of the
reality of the distress; and its purpose was
the display of violence as one of the weapons
of Labour. The exquisite aristocrat, seem-
-1 gly secured by the national system,
turned a deaf ear to the complaints
°f the men, and scorned their demands:
they smashed the windows of his club,
und plundered a street to show him
that starvation would not teach sub-
mission. Then fear enforced a consideration
of the claim which justice had pleaded for
in vain, and a paltry dole of charity was the
immediate consequence. France is less per-
turbed than any other highly civilised nation,
for her lower classes threw off the chief
burden of oppression nearly a century since:
but Germany has her Socialists, and Russia
her Nihilists—organisations which are akin
to those of the other countries named, in
their aims, however they may differ from
them in the means of warfare. And in New
South Wales the first skirmishes of the same
strife have taken place. The generality of
colonial strikes have been brought about not
by the absolute insufficiency of the wages,
but by the demand that Labour should share
with Capital the profit of their union. This
claim the workers are determined to enforce.
DR. ASHBURTON THOMPSON.
Almost imperceptibly their cause gains
ground. Periods of depression may en-
gender a reverse, which their oppo-
nents hail as a triumphant victory, but
every Union, League, and Association
formed, is the harbinger of future victory.
It is well that this organisation of Labour
should take place. The future battles of
employer and employed in these colonies
will be won by conference and corre-
spondence between future Goulds and
Powderlts or GOODOH4PS and Hoyles,
instead of with bullet and bayonet, the pro-
bable arbiters of the struggle in some of the
older countries.
* * *
The long and despotic reign of Capital in
England has been an era of grievous op-
pression. Nobility and the warring Re-
ligion of the sects sought Capital as an ally,
and as he grew in power, he dominated each
and both of them. Capital placed a gilded
mask on the face of Nobility, and made Re-
ligion to prophesy only such things as were
pleasing. So it cama to pass that the pub-
lishers of that Gospel which has Socialism for
its backbone, and generosity for its sinews,
made it their especial mission to uphold a
set of brutal monopolists. The preachers of
humility linked themselves with and sup-
ported a race of purse-proud despits; they,
the pseudo-disciples of Him who said
“ Take no thought for the morrow,” built
for themselves noble palaces and wallowed
in all the luxuries and pleasures of a world
which they warned all men to despise. The
perversion and prostitution of their creed
was and is complete. Were the Giver of the
Gospel to come now to earth, the Tory pro-
fessors of his Glad Tidings would give Him
in charge for vagrancy; nor would any of
the Apostles he recognised by them save
Judas Iscariot, and him only if he bought a
good suit with part of the price of his
treachery, and brought the rest along wiih
him. Huge developments of vice have
sprung from this unholy union of Religion
and Wealth. Naturally people, the devout
ones especially, were loth to regard any-
thing as immoral which kings and nobles—
said by the priests and parsons to have been
ordained of Heaven—might choose to do.
“The king can do no wrong” was ever an
article of popular belief with the religious
and “loyal ” subjects of the community, and
thus the disgusting vices of Henry VIII,
Charles If., George IY,, William 11., and
other, more recent princes, corrupted the
whole nation.- The law asserts the king to
be the “ fountain of honour.” These princes,
and others unnamed, have been the foun-
tains of immorality in its most repulsive
and degrading form. And luxury, the
mother of vice, because of the aggregation
and accumulation of wealth, year by year
meets with larger indulgence, despite the
fact that the army of English paupers is
daily becoming more numerous and desper-
ate. A work recently published in London
by A. JR. Wallace, LL.D., gives the follow-
ing figures, indicative of the enlarged
demand for luxuries as evidenced by the
census returns of the decade from 1871 to
1881:-
“ We find that” (during this period) “thegrowth
of the general population was per cent, while
the number of these employed in the cotton man-
ufacture had Increased only 6 per cent.; and those
in the linen, hosiery, woollen, and worsted manu-
factories had all actually declined. Metal workers
had increased in due proportion to the population;
drapers who supply the most essential wants of
the whole population had increased in a less ratio
than population—only 7 per cent; while milliners
who are more largely employed by the wealthy
classes, had Increased 18 per cent. Carpet and rug-
makers, chiefly depending on the wealthy classes,
had increased 23 per cent.; gardeners, including
nurserymen and florists, almost wholly patronised
by the wealthy, 34 per cent.; while musicians and
dealers in music and musical instruments had in-
creased 37 per cent.
Thus the increased demand for luxuries has
been satisfied at the expense of the neces-
saries of life. Yet the price of these latter
has not increased, for the fearful impover-
ishment of the many, has reduced their
power of purchasing even those things which
are the accessories of existence. The expan-
sion of the trades ministering to luxury, and
the relative shrinkage of those producing
necessaries is a plain indication of the fact
that millions starve to produce millionaires.
Under the present system honest paupers
see no hope of better treatment. Therefore
Labour marches forth, and smashes club-
house windows in Regent-street, and pillages
the jewellers shops in that vicinity. Des-
peration has taught the distressed toilers to
believe that no fate is worse than starvation,
therefore they go forth to wring charity
from the wealthy, and to show Capital that
they will not meekly suffer a perpetual
wrong.
•• • a
In this world-wide contest of the employer
and employed, spoiler and despoiled, the
class which has wealth and the class which
has not, the latter contestants must inevi-
tably win. Victory for long remained with
the holders of wealth, for they, able to give
employment or not as they chose, and
contracting with the workmen singly, dic-
tated their own terms. Tney were able to
use their workmen as human engines,
merely feeding them sufficiently to enable
them to perform the duties imposed, and
leaving them to rust and decay when no
more money could be made out of them. If
the labourers rebelled they fell, for want of
an organisation to support their quay el—
the miserable victims of a (onttinpiiblo
contest. But all that is paesmg away. ha
men have found that fair contracts can
only be made between parties of equal
power. Therefore the labourer now fights
notin his own strength, but by aid of his
union. Ami to the will of these unions the
proudest capitalist must ultimately bend. He
may at first “ignore them,” as Mr. Good-
chap, the New South Wales Commissioner,
proposes to ignore the recently-formed
Railway Association, but sooner or later he
finds, as will the dictator of our rail-
ways, that he is addressed by a voice
he cannot disregard. Ho may answer


that voice, but to haughtily “ignore” it
is to deliver up the battle. That much
trouble will attend the successful revolt of
labour is certain, for revolution, whether
wrought by the sword or the pen, inevitably
induces temporary disorder, but that the
•laim of Labour to become not the servant
but the partner of Capital must ultimately
be conceded is equally inevitable. The men
have the means of victory in their own
hands. Their own indiscretion and selfish-
ness are the only barriers in the path of
conquest. And when that claim is ad-
mitted the fullest mutual benefits will re-
ward the two chief agents in the production
pf the world’s wealth. Capital and Labour
will then co-operate; they will work to-
gether rather than in opposition to one an-
other, and when the union is consummated
the absence of the wastefulness of the pre-
sent strife will secure the utmost economy
possible to their joint operations.
On Milk.
Milk oh I What sort of a vision does it bring to
you? What sort of a vision? Let us keep to the
vision while we can, we shall meet the reality soon
enough. What sort of a strapping lass comes
dancing in there clean and fresh, and healthy, and
strong as the three-year-old heifer cutting capers
in the clover paddock? Ruddy and buxom and clean
and bright. How the tin and the brass of her
pails shine, how the milk froths there 1 How fresh
and pleasant la the odour—distilled essence of but-
tercups and daisies, cowslips and cloverbobS )
meadow-sweet and meadow grass, she brings to
you. It would be just as pleasant to stoop down
and take a long pull at her pail as, in the strength
and exhilaration thereof, to get an arm about her
ample but shapely waist, and—don’t make such
rattle with your pails, Norah, dear. Aren’t your
Lips just like roses, your cheeks much the same,
Or a dish of fresh sthrawberries all smothered in
orame?”
• * *
Meelk ylaou I As the clang of the dead man’s
bell it comes. And who the devil are you, sir ?
You are the milkman, are you ? You are a sort of
filthy Mbphistopheles. There is filth about you
perceptible to every sense. It comes to the nose,
it appears to the eye; and you leer and you sneer,
and what have you got boxed up in that cart with
the black varnish like a coffin-box ? It is milk, is
it ? And no matter to me how it comes. And
you are a city milkman, and Dr. Ashburton
Thompson has burst you up and you don’t mind
telling the truth ? Open out then, Mephisto,
sit up on your cart cock, your feather and
wet your whistle, but not with your own milk or
you may never live to complete your story and
tell us all about it.
• • •
You have kept cows, have you, and for many
years ? And where did you keep them ? In
a backyard ? Yes, the doctor described several
such backyards. You did not trouble to clean
it—no ? (The yards the doctor talks about were
never cleaned). What did you feed your
cows with? "Brewers’ grains!” What are
they ? The waste of the breweries and distilleries,
the stuff from which you can’t squeeze out a
drop more of the smallest beer. The Scriptural
husks that the swine did eat, fit only for swine’
They were the basis of your milk. (Alas! For
the clover and the meadow-sweet.) Anything
else ? A little greenstuff sometimes ? How was
that grown? Our milky Mephisto. cooks his
feather Jaunties at this. The Chinamen grow it
out of nlghtsoii mostly— Milk yiaou, indeed! And
what did your cows drink ?
♦ • •
He lolls back on his cart, he laughs till his
feathers shake out, and the empty cans beneath
him rattle like coffin-plates; and the rheumy tears
come out of his eyes and make channels down his
face. “What did I give them to drink? Hark
you, are you a chemist ? You must be skilled in
very earthly alchemy to understand. I sold to the
people the distilled essence of their grandfathers-
I had a brew for the cows, such as was never dis-
tilled in any witches’ pot on the Brocken; the hill
with the 10,000 graves was above me, the cesspits
of a thousand houses were about me, the creek
ran through my backyard, and all found its way
into my well, and the cows drank, and you drank,
and your wife and children drank, and they fel
sick and died; and you feel the disease in your
own blood and benes, do you? Milk yiaou!
Milk ylaou I” 8
The man awoke In a fearful sweat. He dashed
to the window. It was just the break of day. He
did not see his merry maiden, he did not see his
filthy Mephisto., but he ran the spick and span
cart (the whited sepulchre) of the suburban dairy
and the girl taking in the day’s supply, and then
turning about, he saw the newsp aper he had read
the night before with Dr. Ashburton Thomp-
son’s report on suburban dairies and yelled out in
baste, " Send him away I send him away I”
* ♦ ♦
What for? Because of his dream?—No! no!
Because of absolute, recorded, substantial facts.
Go you and read the report, a good and graphic
and accurate report; or, better still, go and look
for yourself and you will understand. This is the
plain fact of the matter. Th® milk supplied from
the majority of these town-fed cows is stuff pro-
duced by the cow’s interior organism from the
waste of the houses and the drainage of the pol-
luted areas of the city. You can just as well put it
all in a mash-tub together—the grain, the stuff
from the well, the sewage water, and, according
to the doctor, actual dead man’s juice, disinfected
(see :the case of Mrs. ) with Condy’s fluid,
turn" on the tap, and expect pure milk to flow. It
is the fermentation and distillation of precisely
such a mess as that which produces the milk sold
to thousands and tens of thousands of people in
Sydney. And what is the result ? The present
result is hundreds of cases of typhoid fever (the
typhoid germ will live for ever in such a nidus)
and thousands of children wasting away from
their birth-hour. What the future result may be,
those physicians and theoretical analysts or syn-
thesists most deeply skilled in tracing broad and
remote effects of small present causes, may be
best able to say.
m m *
The most hideous story the world knows is that
of the traditional beginning of the foulest disease
the world endures; and that is almost comparable
to this. Give the drainage of the burying-ground
as nutriment to the frail life of the new-born infant
—what can be more vile, more hideous, more horrid
in itself, more fearful in its probable results ?
* * *
And is this done ? Read the report—read the
report. The well which supplied one dairy, said
the doctor, was dug in the bed of a creek—a creek
that was the natural drain of two ridges in which
bad been .buried 10,000 bodies, of a town of 1500
inhabitants all whose waste and garbage was
simply pitched outside the doors or buried in their
backyards. The cows drank the water from that
well, the customers of the dairy the milk from
those cows. Is it somewhat blood-curdling ? Will
you take a glass of iced milk now without ques-
tion as to the manner of its production ? Will you
dash the opaque white in upon the crystal fluid in
the morning in firm belief that you are to quaff per-
manent health with evanescent rapture; or will
you rather say, what is the meaning of this—now
where does it begin, where does it end? The
answer to such a question would be the most un.
satisfactory that could be imagined. The doctor
says it begins' and ends with the Sydney city
and suburban dairies. He has been dealing speci-
ally with Leichhardt, but he has no reason to
believe that Leichhardt is worse than any other
suburb. He believes that they are all bad, that
the conditions existing at Leichhardt will be found
repeated almost wherever cows are kept in or about
Sydney. And there is very little doubt that he is
right. As typhoid has existed, as horrid wasting
diseases in infants have existed, as slow working
Influences whose results may yet be fearfully ex-
perienced have existed, so this abominable practice
of cow-keeping in town has existed. And who has
been to blame ? Who are the natural guardians of
the public health? The city corporation, of course;
the mayors and the aldermen. These are the people
who are to see that all things are done decently
and in order. And is this really expected? Does any
man, knowing anything of the men who have
generally been mayors and aldermen in and about
this city of Sydney, expect that they will stand be-
tween the people and any such fearful danger ?
Why, these men have often, it might almost
be written generally, grown and graduated at the
abattoirs. Like the urchins of the rabbiters in
the bush, they played at throat-cutting in
infancy, they danced at the shambles to the
death-shrieks of stuck pigs, and calves, and
lambs. And all the place and power, and
wealth they enjoy, has been earned by a trade
in raw meat by dipping their hands in blood. The
finer feelings of such men as these must naturally
be killed out. They have no right or claim what-
ever to positions that theoretically carry
with them a strong regard for health and
cleanliness, to say nothing of aestheticism.
In the good old city of Glasgow a butcher was
not allowed to sit on a jury. It was recognised
that his trade in a sense demoralised him; but
in Sydney, be squats in the abbatoirs, or
sticks calves in his back-yard one hour, and
sits in council the next. Butchers with the smell
of the shambles on them, publicans with the reek
of the bar in their breath, and the curses
of widows and orphans on their heads—
these have been the rulers and cleansers amongst
us. And yet we ask why are dairy folk permitted
to poison us ?
• • ■
So we are governed and so we suffer—so in this
city of a quarter of a million of people, with
matchless surroundings and unequalled oppor"
tunles, we live amid conditions which would dis-
grace a Tartar village; perpetually under the
curse of Rabshbkah, and worse, seeking to sustain
ourselves not only by ourselves, but by our dead.
There is no romance in this; it is plain, absolute,
ghastly fact. It is set forth in the doctor’s practi-
cal report; it is down in the record of things that
really are. And how easily might lit be supple-
mented! How fearful a tale might be told of
houses built on muck-heaps, of townships grow-
ing without the slightest sanitary precaution, of
disease increasing in frequency and vlrulenoy, of
little children playing in the park becoming in-
fected with abominable diseases by the mangy
dogs who are seen there by scores! We are
governei by bumptious brutes, by arrogant pigs,
by all-thlngs-to-ali-men ours, that is the judgment
inthe matter; and when a cultured and honourable
gentleman speaks he is met by a storm of abuse
and the perfectly accurate objection, “If the
likes of you begin to talk we can all go back to
the gutter whence we sprung.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Heresy!! Heresy!!
There Is a point—yes, there Is a point at which
they all halt. The ultra-Freetrade journal of
Sydney has discovered the point at which it must
halt. It is the contract entered into by the South
Australian Government for the construction of
the Palmerston-Pine Creek railway by Chinese
labour. “ We are Freetrade—yes, we are staunch
and consistent to Freetrade; but we can't stand
that." And yet there is not a single word in ex-
planation of the difficulty of protesting against
the employ of Chinese and still keeping fast hold
of the old commercial creed. Why, if you pay
£85,000 more for the construction of that railway
by white labour, do you not tax the whole popu-
lation of the colony to the extent of £85.000 for the
direct protection of navvies ? There is nothing
else in it; it is Protection palpable and gross as
any impost on sugar, or cloth, or wheat, or pota-
toes. But you never got quite so hard a knock
before. This is the hammer which has driven the
wedge of true Protection into your skull. You can
see the evil which may result through the employ-
ment of a thousand pigtails in making a railway,
but you are blind to the far greater evil of per.
mittlng Chinamen, Indians, Germans, Russians, to
starve out our own well-living and expensive and
useful white workmen by sending the work of
their pauper communities in their own beggarly
manned ships to compete, untaxed, with our work-
men in the open market. W hat ? Will not the China-
men settle down and become good colonists ? Must
you not protest against any introduction of the
iniquitous doctrine that a nation, as a man, may
not buy in the open market of the world ? Mend
your ways or there will be trouble in the counting-
house, and visitation from the secretary of the
Freetrade League. Representative commercial
men won’t stand heresy like that.
+>
The Devil who Flays and Fays.
The leading Sydney Congregational divine, Dr.
Jbeferis, has at various times delivered himself
on the theatres, the causes of their decadence, and
the hopes of their improvement. The former he
imagines to be the taint of immorality in their
constitution, the latter he finds in their increased
respectability. The doctor talks about this matter
as one who knows, and yet we could not accept
him as quite so competent an authority as Mon-
sieur the manager of the Comedie Francaise, the
subsidised State-theatre in Paris, the one recog-
nised school and stage of the highest dramatic art.
Monsieur, like the good doctor, has recently been
giving expression to his opinions, and he sees
things in quite a different light. Monsieur says,
Yes, the stage is declining unquestionably; we do
not do anything now that would compare with the
achievements and triumphs of the old days. And
if you ask him why, he startles you,—at least he
would startle the doctor. We are getting worse,
he says, because we are getting too respectable.
The diable du corps is dying out—that
is what is the matter. The men and the
women of old times used neither to be
married nor given in marriage. They were
above and below all that sort of thing.
They brought to the stage an experience of pathos
and passion which was not learned from books;
and a rollicking, devil-may-care spirit and abandon
out of which burst and bubbled all the brightest
wit. It is all gone now. They go home and they
go to bed, and they get up and come to rehearsal,
and there is no devil in them and, therefore, no
play. The devil plays, as pays. The manager
does not agree with the doctor as to the cause of
the decadence of the stage, you see, but can we
not bring them together on another ground ? We
do not remember if this particular doctor has
killed the devil yet—from the prosperous condi-
tion of his church we should say not—but most
learned doctors (of divinity) cling to him fast—
couldn’t do without him. ’Tis the devil pays. If
you want to “gar them gle,” said a grim old Aber-
deen preacher, “ gar them smell hell—nae collector
like the puir deil.’’ Another, having exhausted
all subjects of prayer, said, “An noo, Lord, tak a
thocht o’ the sad condition o’ the puir deil. Hech,
sirs, we would be badly off but for the wholesome
dreed o’ the creetur.” Divines of the more con-
ventional Anglican type put him in the liturgy*
couple him up between the world and the fiesh,
and Methodists and revivalists go at him with
love-feasts and other affairs, or blare of trumpet
and drum. But they can’t do without him. There
would be no holy water sold and not much pew-
rent paid if once the poor devil were dead. And
if he dies altogether, says the manager, there
would be no more play. The diabU du corps is
the genius of the corps—we can’t do without him—
the thing is impracticable. The poor devil! Has
the turn in the tide of his affairs come at last ? Is
he going to get his due ? Will his worth be ac-
knowledged in pulpit and on stage ? Shall we
really see the manager of the theatre giving time
and the chorus of reverend doctors leading the
cheers for “ the good and the so far much-abused
devil—the devil who plays and pays 1“
♦
Home Rule for India!
The Hindoo races, after long years of patience,
have at length put forth a demand for consti-
tutional government, and declare they will have
Home Rule and take it “neat.” The righteous
demands of the Irish nation have been heard
throughout the earth, and have roused the
sons of Shem to make a similar demand; and the
“ Erln-go-bragh ” which re-echoes from Dublin is
answered by the Asiatics at Calcutta and Bombay
as they raise their old battle-cry of “ Indl-go-blue.”
Like the patriots of Erin the men of the East are
learning the value of agitation and organisation ;
their respeot for “ Jan 800 l ” is going down to a
zero which is far below any register ever dreamt
of by Fahrenheit: and the Indian League are be-
ginning to ask questions to which the Barnacles
and Stiltstalkings of the City of Palaces can find no
answer in their catechism. Among other things
they point out that when England went to “ wave
the bloody shirt” in the Soudan, the Sepoys
fought well and bravely in the cause, but that
the British Government, not satisfied with
this, have since presented them with a bill for
part of the expenses, while they could not forward
to Calcutta even one moth-eaten Arab as a trophy
of victory. They also want to know why a Hindoo
soldier is debarred from many of the higher
grades of the services; why a Sepoy veteran of a
hundred fights should be subordinated to a newly-
hatched English officer, who has not yet learned
to walk without his sword getting between his
legs and tripping him up; why a Mahratta or Ben-
gali nobleman should be alluded to as a “nigger ”
on every possible occasion, by so-called ladies and
gentlemen, whom Providence, in a moment of
aberration, has blessed with a cuticle of lighter
tint; and generally they inquire in respectful
terms why all this should be thus. Hitherto India
has been ruled on the simple principle—
“ That bombshells, powder, grape, and ball
Are Goodwill’s strongest magnets;
And peace, to make it stick at all,
Must be druv in with bagnets;”
but owing either to the dubious qualities of the
British “bagnet,” or the pachydermatous charac-
ter of the Semitic hide, peace and goodwill
have not been driven in very deep. The
annexation of Burmah is another grievance, for
nobody dreams the new province will pay !a divi-
dend for many years to come; and as ;it has been
annexed to India that bleeding country must
liquidate the bill. But the Viceroy, like many
other viceroys before him, is suffering from con-
gestion of timber in the head; and the movement
which is going on around him has, as yet, made no
impression on the place where his Intellect ought
to be. At present, fortunately, there la no hint of
rebellion, but the new league is spreading far and
wide, and will soon possess an iniluenoo which wil
bo sufficient to raise millions In arms, should oo
oaslon require. The method in which the Sepoys
conducted their crusade In 1856 has, of course,
created a prejudice against them, and It must be
admitted that, In these days, they used to leave
corpses lying about in a way that was decidedly
prej udioial to health; but still their conduct was
not much worse than that of many Europeans
under similar circumstances. The Englishman
frequently amuses himself, even in times of peace,
by jumping on his female relatives ; whereas
the Sepoy, when he felt that he really must
jump, exercised himself on other people’s
families instead, and may, therefore, claim to be
the more civilised of the two. Moreover, the
mutineers, though they lost in the end, made a
good fight, and if Home Rule be refused, another
leader may arise to wave his Hindoo nightshirt in
the Asiatic atmosphere and call the nation to fol-
low him and be free or burst. In such a case he
would not have to fight alone, for an old enemy of
ours Is even now treading down the Tartar tribes
beneath his Russian boots, and is looming big on
the northern horizon like the shadow of a great
rock in a thirsty land. The Hindoo, in short, is
beginning to think that the men from the West
have dealt quite long enough in the tents of Shbm .
He has tried the experiment of submission, and
he finds that in Asia the meek do not inherit the
earth; then he tried revolt, and a hundred thou-
sand British parsons got up as one clergyman in
their pulpits, and wanted to know why the heathen
raged and why they kept on raging. On the whole
therefore, it is not a profitable speculation to’
be an Asiatic at present, and, like many
other ventures, it pays no dividends. The
demand of the people for Parliamentary
Government is a fair and reasonable one. and, a s
they have never before been allowed a chance ot
managing their own affairs, it is too much to say, as
some British statesmen are fond of doing,
they are not fit for such freedom. Even if a
Hindoo Legislature were considered unsafe and
untrustworthy there are a good many representa-
tive bodies for sale in different parts of the British
Empire, and our Asiatic brethren might, perhaps
be satisfied at first with a slop Parliament instead
of having one made to measure. The people of
Queensland would, we believe, sell theirs very
cheap as a second-hand and damaged article; and
if the Idolatrous Hindoo could be content to wor-
ship this image of brass, matters might then be
settled to the satisfaction of all parties and a great
danger averted.
4
Chinese Charity.
‘At Redfern Court, before Mr. Yates, D.8.M.,
Mary Ellen Marshall, Elizabeth Abbott,
Ada Spraggs, and Ada Brown or Williams,
were charged under the Vagrant Act with having
insufficient lawful means of support. They were
alleged to be of. the class known as ‘ Chinamen’s
women.’ ’’—Sydney daily papers.
Bill Nyb was perfectly right in his action
though his manner of argument was peculiar. He
“ went for thst Heathen Chinee.” That is the
pith of the matter. A time will come when we
shall all do the same. We have only got to under-
stand how persistently, how insidiously, with what
devilish cunning and infernal unscrupulousness
the heathen Chinee “ goes for ” us to take him by
the pendent pigtail and fling him Into the Pacific
—to say “ drown there, or get across as you can—
that is the boundary set by nature between us and
you; keep your own aide, will you, we don’t want
you, and won’t have you at all.” Chinese charities,
forsooth! Chinese giving the net gain of some
outlandish performance to the Melbourne Wo-
men’s Hospital! The Chinese have piped, and
the white fools have danced, and paid the
piper too, and now the money made in that way is
put together and handed over to the Women’s
Hospital. The Wesleyan editor of the Melbourne
Telegraph applauded the act. "Goodness me
what a lot you know 1 ” replies the commonsense’
man of the world to the pious editor, “ or otherwise
what a preciously rare gift you have of concealing
your knowledge. Do you know that your lying-
in hospitals, your lock hospitals, your asylums,
your gaols, are filled with the diseased, degraded,
demoralised, demented victims of these brutes for
whom the curse of Ham is the only proper
heritage ? ” Chinese charity 1 Are we indeed fallen
so low ? If we permit them to come in, if we take
their labour, if we give them our white workmen’s
legitimate opportunity, if we take them as
partners in the common contract to rob the
labourer of his hire, we shall have to take
their charity in the end; we shall have to
admit the partnership and suffer, ail its con-
sequences. With their thrift—the very quint,
essence of thrift—which worse than any fraud
corrodes and rots the world, up their sleeves—with
the wax of their filthy and pernicious vices on
their nails, with bland hypocrisy in their fishy
eyes, they will worm themselves in, intertwine
themselves with ail the threads of our being—and
what then? Nothing much to the money-grubber.
Only a semi-Chinese social condition, the hands
upon the dial of European civilisation pushed
back four hundred years, and all the manlier vir-
tues not clogged and fettered only, but polluted at
the source. We are ruined by Chinese cheap
labour. Yes, and we are polluted by Chinese
charity, and Bill Nyb was perfectly right; and
would to heaven the manhood of Australasia
would follow straight in his tracks.
♦
A Disgraceful Surrender.
The result of the “ private conference ” of the
three colonial Premiers and Admiral Tryon has at
length been announced by Sir Patrick Jennings.
The details of the scheme need not be adverted to
here, for its main feature is so objectionable as to
Involve its Instant condemnation with all Austra-
lians who love their land, and do not hunger for
Imperial glory, or grovel for Imperial titles.
Meekly, and doubtless with due respect, the
Premiers agreed to urge upon their local Parlia-
ments the adoption of the Admiral’s memo, advis-
ing the expenditure of £633.T50 in the purchase of
vessels, which it would cost £143.653 a year to main,
tain. But these vessels are to be equipped,
manned, and directed by the English Admiralty,
the colonies merely paying the bill, dividing its
amount in proportion to their population.
The first objection to this proposal is the
odour of cowardice and helplessness which
it carries. Is it a fact that this colony
which “succoured the mother country in her
hour of need” and "pulled her out” of t 0
Soudan mess is too weak to be trusted with her


Queen Victoria.
Her Majesty the Queen, whose birthday celebra-
tion on Monday, led, we regret to say, tolthe usual
incendiarism and alcoholic exhilaration, adorns
another page of this Issue. The Queen is espe-
cially noted in aristocratic circles for her gracious-
ness of demeanour—a trait which has lately been
displayed in her tours through the Indo-Colonial
Exhibition. Although she was shown through
the New South Gallery by (effusive joyl) Sir Alex.
Stuart, and expressed her admiration of the por-
trait of “ Plain Bill ” Dailey, she is understood to
reserve her very sweetest smiles for “ Plainer
Tom ” Slattery and Frawnsls Habigle. Her
Majesty Is alleged to be 67 years of age.
Dr Ashburton Thompson.
Our front-page portrait is that of Dr, Ashburton
Thompson whose clear, thorough, and fearless
report on the dairies at Leichhardt and other
suburbs of Sydney, has recently given him
creased prominence, and won for him additional
reputation. Had there been mor« Ashburton
Thompson’s in Sydney in the past it is distinctly
probable that there would be less typhoid fever ip
the city at the present.
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “ The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ , f
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ao*
cepted for amounts under £1.
Victorian Government are going to make
it compulsory to have land properly drained
before being built on. Similar steps will be taken
in N.8.W. in 1986.
The Russian warship Yestnik was last
heard of in N.Z , where she has dropped in to pur-
chase a watch-glass for the commander. She
called at Launceston to repair a milk-jug and to
get a horse-ball for the captain’s cow. Her last
landing in Victoria was at the forts to get a bag of
sand to compare it with the ship’s sugar and to
photo, the works. The Age and Sydney D.T. have
still their piercing gaze on that ship.
Mr. Andrew Lysaght caused much mirth
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week by declaring
that he supported freetrade or protection indif-
ferently, according to the suitability or usefulness
of either at the time. We do not profess to ad-
mire the political publican in question, but in
this case, must side with him as against those who
exhibit their Ignorance in laughing at him. For
the question of freetrade v. protection is entirely
one of opportunism, and all men should be op-
portunists regarding it. We have frequently,
while supporting protection as the policy for this
country, freely admitted that free-trade may at
times be the best policy for some other countries"
and J. 8. Mill, that sturdy old freetrader,
has also admitted that protection may some-
times be the better policy for a young
country. There is nothing absolute or universal
in either policy. Although we advocate pro-
tection as beneficial to New South Wales we have
never urged its applicability to all parts of the
globe. That is where the freetraders err. Be-
cause that policy is alleged to have benefltted
England, they insist on its usefulness under totally
different conditions, which is as absurd as it would
be for a doctor to use a mustard poultice for a
sore chest, and finding it beneficial there, insist
upon using it to cure the next man, who happened
to have a broken leg. However the daily papers
may jeer, the portly Lysaght has gripped the right
end of the stick, and if the Hebald and D.T.
could import a little of his common-sense into
their treatment of the subject their deliverances
would be less absurd and inconsistent.
Hon. F. M. Darley, Q.C., of Sydney, is
going to Brisbane to represent the plaintiff in the
great mining action. Bond and Co. v. Mount Mor-
gan Gold Mining Company, a case involving the
ownership of property valued at millions of
pounds sterling; he gets a fee of 1200 guineas.
Queensland has at its bar no man with the com-
manding personality of Mr. Darley. who is univer-
sally regarded as the next Chief Justice of New
South Wales. Mr. Griffith, Q 0., is perhaps a
cleverer man, but his cold, passionless, selfish, in-
tellectuality lacks the Sydney advocate’s manly
force. Mr. Darley has, on more than one notable
occasion, made the worse appear the better cause;
but it would seem that bis present mission has for
Its object the bursting-up of a monopoly which,
if the uncontradioted statements made in the
Queensland and Sydney press are to be believed,
is one of the most shamelessly-secured that has
ever come under public notice in any country.
Without in any way exposing the cause
of the plaintiffs in tne present action, we
can only express our sincere hope that if,
as there seems too much reason to believe,
the conscienceless grab lately made at some of
the most valuable Queensland goldfields is secretly
supported by the sinister influence of a ring high
in authority, the cause of the hona-fide miner will
prevail over that of the capitalist who, by myste-
rious means, is able here and there and everywhere
to bring about the abrogation in his favour of
regulations made in the interest of the toiling
1 “bard-grafter.”
own protection or too cowardly to undertake the
job? Self-help and self-protection are the first
attributes of manhood; are the colonies destitute
of the one and unable to provide the other ? To
trust the defence of a country to aliens and
foreigners to the soil is not less foolish than dis-
graceful. There are two other strong reasons
why this plan should not be carried out: in
the first place such a system of defence would
make our own national existence dependent
upon a nation which is not absolutely indestruct-
ible; and further, it is quite within the bounds
of possibility (as we pointed out in dealing with
the Imperial Slattery) that England may be our
first enemy. Our hired protectors may at any
time use the fleet purchased by the colonies as a
power against them. In any case, the plan must
be unsatisfactory. South Australia has recently
shown by her repudiation of the agreement anent
the maintenance of New Guinea, that she cares
nothing for Imperial obligations; and in depen-
dencies under constitutions as free as her own,
the very patriotism of the people will sooner or
later move them to sweep away a system of pro-
tection by those who have not the heart or
thought of Australians. There is little doubt that
the Imperial Slattebys, "loyal” Abigails, and
aristocratic statesmen of the Jennings type will
be able to carry this scheme in substance, but
their favouring votes can only be regarded as a
disgraceful surrender of Australian rights and
privileges.
♦
The Monopoly of the Merchants.
Mr. Pitlspord, the verbose secretary of the New
South Wales Freetrade Association, has written
two long and indignant articles against the impo-
sition of the bated ad valorems; some of the mer-
chants of Sydney have indignantly interviewed
Sir Patrick Jennings; and sundry petty traders
and others have written violent letters to the
dailies denouncing any additions to the tolls levied
at the ports of the colony. And all these oracles
object to the duties “ because they will affect the
trade of the colony.” Take away this prophecy
from their deliverances, and nothing is left but
lamentations at the initiation of a new policy.
The unreflecting reader would imagine that the
reduction of Imports by a million or two meant
ruin for New South Wales. This practically Is
what Freetrade oracles allege. But what really
are these imports that we should so cherish and
protect them ? They are cereals which should be
grown within our own boundaries; vegetables
which our own acres should supply; soft-goods in
the manufacture of which thousands of our own
citizens should be employed; iron-work, wood-
work, and other products of human industry
which should afford an ample wage to thousands
of men now vainly seeking a market for their
labour; and, lastly, these imports consist of goods
which cannot be produced within the colony.
Deduct the latter class of imports from the
total and the huge remainder is merely an
acknowledgement of the helplessness of New
South Wales as a community, and its childish
and humiliating dependence upon other nations.
One oracle announces that he knows of £500,000
worth of imports that will be lost to the trade of
the colony by the action of the ad valorems, What
matter if their loss means an increase in locai
manufactures ? Had these goods been imported
some of the merchants of Sydney would have taken
their little bite of profit out of the total, and the
money for this purchase would have gone to
enrich some foreign country. No wlt is evident by
the fact of the order having been countermanded
that the order (unless indeed it was a mere trade
line t® figure as an Import one day and an export
the next), is to be executed in local factories,
for had the goods been such as could not be pro-
duced in New South Wales the order would still
necessarily be fulfilled by the foreign producer.
The effect of this reduction of imports by haif-a-
million will be that the importer will lose his profit
on the line, and that a local manufacturer and his
men will profit by the production of similar
goods, while the half-million of money will remain
in circulation. Such a result will be a
distinct loss to the “ merchant princes” (who just
now are inclined to advance their cause by brand-
ing one another as commercial thieves), but a
clear and evident gain to the whole community.
It is impossible to see where the fearful national
loss resulting fFom a reduction of imports comes
in. That the ad valorems will help to break
through the monopoly which the importers now
enjoy is patent enough, but not even the gifted
Pctlsford can show why this monopoly should be
maintained at the cost of the community. Free-
trade under the old system of taxing all neces-
saries that cannot be produced here, and thus add-
ing to the cost of producing other things in the
colony is merely Protection of foreign manufac-
turers and their Sydney agents the importers. We
have protected this latter class long enough ;
it is time that our own sons of toil and their em-
ployers were put on an equal footing with
foreigners. It will be no loss to anyone but the
merchants if their present monopoly is effectually
smashed.
*
The Gospel of Greed.
“ And the collection was thirty-two pounds three."
The Primate of Australia preached with all the
fervour he could assume on so high an occasion,
and for so worthy a cause. Governor Carington
occupied a front seat; the wealth, aristocracy,
and religion of Sydney were all fully represented
there. The choristers helped the thing along with
swelling anthem and glorious chant. Three thou-
sand people sat within the sacred walls, “ and the
collection was thirty-two pounds three.” St. An-
drew’s Cathedral is, we suppose, about the
biggest place of worship in Australia; within
its walls assemble the wealthiest of the pious
ones of this Continent; they did so assemble
on Sunday last; they were stirred by the music,
the prayers, the exhortations which are calculated
to excite and intensify the promptings of piety;
they were asked to exhibit their charity, “ and
the collection was £33 35.” There are five desolate
Widows at Lithgow, and they aie the mothers of
helpless children; sympathy and pity for them is
excited, and a subscription-list started to provide
them with the necessaries and perhaps a few, a
very few, of the comforts of life. The churches
arc appealed to for their assistance in the Christ-
like work. Throe thousand persons assembled in
answer to that appeal; "and the collection was
£33 3a.” Look at it another way. Christ is the
alleged model for those who call themselves
Christians. He is the founder of that religion
which enjoins charity, and the visitation and suc-
cour of the widows and fatherless in their affliction
as a first and necessary duty. Here was a mag-
nificent opportunity for our Christians of showing
by imitation their admiration of their Master’s
work. They gathered to the number of 3000,
they might prove the unbounded charity of Chris-
tians; and—” the collection was thirty-two pounds
three.” Thirty-two pounds three I There was
not a theatre in the city of Sydney, which
had not taken more than that on the previous
night. Thirty-two pounds three! Less than the
average Saturday-night takings of 20 public-
houses within a stone’s throw of the Cathedral.
How is this ? Is it that men who worship Christ
are not willing to sacrifice as much for him, as
are the men who drink whisky, and love
the drama. Thirty-two pounds three! Divide
the amount by the number of the congregation
and it is seen that the average love of Christ
possessed by this huge and wealthy gathering ran
to twopence-halfpenny per head. These pious
persons thought that a donation of not less than
threepence would enable them to “read their title
clear to mansions in the skies ” during the space
of another week. The need of aid was noted,
the command of a self-saeriflcing Saviour valued,
and the extent of their own piety valued at two-
pence-halfpenny a soul. What does Dr. Barry
think of this ? And what does the world think of
it ? And what do we think ? We think that it
proves the ” religion of our modern sects to be
a vile prostitution of a noble system. The clergy
(through whom Dr. Barry receives apostolic
succession) long ago turned aside to worship the
golden calf:] they did not diaesrd their gospel, they
merely forced it to bow to the twin idols—Wealth
and Respectability. So it happens naturally enough
now that when Barry proclaims the perverted
gospel Wealth and Respectability crowd the sacre d
edifice. And the spirit of charity is also there, for
on Sunday last Barry preached, Carington
listened, Younger played, 3000 people attended,
and the ” collection was £33 3 l”
+
"Light on the Commercial Horizon.”
Yes, and utter darkness on the journalistic mind
which professes to keep the record and give the
watchwords in the temper of true Democracy. It
is the Sydney Daily Telegraph which brings
this light to us, filched as it has openly confessed
from that most luminous journal, the Saturday
Review. This is the sort of “ light ”
“ The eost of production is being reduced by an
adjustment of the rate of wages to the lowered
conditions, an adjustment which is going on all
over the world, and the temporary effects of
which we see in the fierce labour disputes which
are visible as incidents of the struggle between
Capital and Labour by which the settlement of
terms on the new basis is effected.”
And, again:—
“ The cost of production being adjusted to the
new level of prices, and prices themselves* having
become stationary, it wi'l be possible tor business
to be conducted with profit.”
Do you understand what that means, you work-
ing men, you soldiers in the great world army,
fighting from your manhood’s birth-hour, and
sworn to fight till death against the robber and
tyrant “Capital”? Let us pick the curiously,
convoluted sentences to pieces, and see just
exactly what they do mean. “ The cost of pro-
duction being reduced by an adjustment of the
rate of wages.” What is that? It is this:
Every little luxury and refinement taken
out of every mechanic’s and artisan's home,
every labourer reduced from a fair and liberal
diet to the bread and the water of affliction.
Meanness and rudenes?, hunger and cold—the old
doom of the workman, bound upon him once
more; all the results of his straggles and his vic-
tories wasted; all the fruits of his passion-years,
spilled as water on the ground. Back to the old
servitude, the old humiliation, the old mill-horse
condition—that is what it means. And what have
they got to say about it ? Not the Saturday Re-
view people c We don’t expect either common
sense or sympathy from them on such a matter
as this. As well expect philosophical religion in a
Methodist chapel, or good English from a scion of
the British aristocracy whose capacity to pro-
nounce the letter R has been refined or has rotted
away. But the Daily Telegraph is not like
that paper, sailing under the “Old True Blue.’*
The Telegraph will tell you he is a Democrat.
He has always told you so. He flies the popular
flag, he seek the popular support, and here de
llberately, as plainly, he pitches the people over-
and leagues himself with the people’s oppressors,
He preaches here the doctrine of the hourgeosie in
all its narrowness, and meanness, and corruption.
He places himself beneath the asgis of wealth,
while he wins his status as public speaker, and can
only maintain it by the suffrages of the people.
An “>djus:ment of the rate of wages”—yes, but
no talk of an adjustment of the rate of expenditure
of those who have amassed fortunes by stealing
wages and robbing labourers. The fat wife of the
retired manufacturer can bestow a thousand
pounds worth of frippery about her ungainly
body, and there’s not even a good old Puritanic
growl of “Go to woman, this is unseemly,”£but
immediat.ly the artisan’s wife is placed in such a
condition as enables her, with her well-fed
children, all decently clad, to take a shilling’*
worth of pleasure at concert, aquarium, theatre or
pleasure garden, there is a talk of a new “ adjust-
ment,” which means the clipping away of the
wholesome comforts and homely jiys of the
coarse and insolent wealthy lower-order woman.
Need for adjustment of that sort, probably of
such adjustment that is all the Telegraph sees,
as the outcome of the agony and bloody sweu,
of Labour, for its long withheld rights, lt 8
filched and squandered dues. In sight of
the long slow tortures of starvation en-
dured in every great city of England, of the
wrung out tears of strong men, the helpless
nakedness of ivomen, the cries of little children
for bread, the wails of Infants at milkless breasts,
the Sydney Daily Telegraph stands and talks of
an “adjustment” whereby these things shall be
just slightly ameliorated-made barely tolerable—
and, so hm imagines, perpetuated. Just so stood
the Scribe and the Pharisee, in full memory of the
scourging, the thorn-crowning, the crucifying of
the Sabbath-breaking, mob-collecting, order-des-
troying rascal, Jesus Cubist. J ust so stood Mon-
seigneur, the territorial landlord, while poor
Jacques Bonhomue, who had stolen a chicken to
make broth for his sick wife, dangled at a rope’s-
end over the village well poisoning the water.
And did not a day come—and didlnot the angels in
Heaven laugh to see it—when the bowels of the
ore were ripped open without the walla of Jeru-
salem, and the head of the other rolled into the
guillotine trough, while the fierce “Ca Jra ”
shook the echoing walls. These are historical
dooms which will not be repeated. The magnifi-
cent forbearance—the heroic endurance—of the
world-workers fence the world-suckers against
the fate which a blind justice would righteously
apportion to them. And despite the prate and
prayer for “adjustment,” that forbearance and
that endurance, begun with ceaseless struggle,
with untiring effort, must slowly and surely win.
Just because.the workman prefers [hunger, cold,
starvation, death, to what he has been taught to
regard as theft and murder, the thieves and mur*
derers of the world are safe, and their apologists
prosperous. They are poor creatures, these apo-
logists—we seldom find it necessary to give them
any advertisement, let them ride on the bourgeois
carriages, with the coachman grinning to his mate
on the footpath, let them rub shoulders with the
fat bourgeois women, the tinsel of affectation on
their unformed manners as the powder and paint
on their unwashed skins; let them listen while the
bourgeois man, the successful trimmer, or drum-
mer, or driver of men in his own particular mill,
and having eaten at the fat pigs trough let them
grease the fat pigs quarters with all the strength
ef their own meanpess and the fulsomeness of
their own conceit. We shall never waste effort in
riding a rough tilt at them, unless they fall under
the proper attainder of pirates and forgers—hoist-
ing the colours and using the name of honest and
bold Democracy.
The Protestant Standard of Sydney hag at
list a righteous cause of complaint. People have
been moving about under the eye of its able
editor these many years back, calling themselves
good Protestants, and going wherever there was
a chance of gaining honour, or dignity, or salva-
tion by the profession, and after all they were at
heart mere hollow shams. The editor has found
them out. As in so many other affairs of life, it
is through a woman the revelation has been
effected. The central article of Sydney Protes-
tantism, the pivot on which the system locally
turns, is at the present time, it is assumed, un-
hesitating belief in the historical narratives of
Miss Edith O’Gorman. The heart of this
article, the core of this pivot, is faith in
the fact that she is an Escaped Nun. She
calls herself that, her friends call her that,
and any doubt affecting this descriptive title
vitiates everything. Well, the Protestant
Standard finds that the S.M. Herald speaks of
the eloquent lady as “the alleged escaped nun.”
“The‘alleged escaped nun I’” cries the reverend
quill-driver. “The alleged S.M. Herald! The
alleged month of May 1 The alleged price of this
paper is 63.1 The alleged General Post Office I” Is
that Protestantism ? Is it a fair way of striving for
thefgoods of this world or of the next? Well,
perhaps not. But although the S.M. Herald
likes the Protestant cause much it likes being
“ safe ” better. If the S.M. Herald had been com-
missioned to write the Ten Commandments there
would neither be a “ shall ” nor a “ shall not.” It
is safety, not Protestantism, sturdy Standard,
that comes first of all things.
+
Alderman Taylor, of Sydney, seeks to recover
£5OOO damages from Alderman J. D. Young, on
the ground that the latter threw a glass of water
into his face at a council meeting. Not only has
the usual ponderous machinery of the Supreme
Court been invoked in the matter, but an appli-
cation has been successfully made by plaintiff for
a special jury of 131 The Chief Justice, in assent-
ing to the request, sought to justify his action on
the ground that the parties “ held public positions
of great importance; ” and Judge Pauoett added
that "prima facie it appeared that the parties had
disgraced themselves and the council.” The public
doesn’t agree with Judge Padgett; on the con-
trary, it is of opinion that nothing which mem-
bers of the Sydney City Council may in future
do, short of felony, can further disgrace that
body, the manners and customs of which have
all along been such as would make a hog blush.
Nor does the public see why the Supreme Court
should allow its time to be monopolised by the
indecent wranglings of an obscure contractor and
a bumptious rum-seller, who ought to be
made settle their differences at the police
office instead of being permitted to block
the way of suitors who are so unfortunate as to
have obviously substantial causes to place before
the highest tribunal of the land. The Judges, in
treating the office of alderman as being necessarily
a dignified and honourable position, and shutting
their eyes to the frequency with which it has of
late years been disgraced and systematic-
ally degraded by unworthy occupants, have
made a mistake which no one without
the precincts of the court is at all
likely to commit, and have invested with a
fictitious importance and respectability, a post at
which all cultured persons have been taught to
metaphorically spit. The public will be just as
little interested and just as much disgusted at a
Supreme Court narration of the circumstances
under which Alderman J. D. Young proceeded to
wash Alderman Taylor as it was at hearing that
Mayor Harris had tried to blacken the character
of the now politically resurrected John Davies,
C.M.G.
+
The Trafalgar-square demonstration and subse-
quent outburst of window-breaking appear to
have evoked a ludicrous panic among the illus-
trious German family appointed by Providence
to bleed the long-suffering British taxpayer-
Royalty has awakened to the fact that “something
must be done,” and is now making a bold bid for
the votes and interest of the snobocracy. The
Queen recently assisted at the opening of two or
three shows in London. She visited the Albert
Hall, and struggled through the ordeal of a one
day trip to Liverpool. It is even hinted that the
monarch may be soon at Ascot on Cup day.
Meanwhile the Prince of Wales and minor royal"
are busily engaged in playing upon the persona
vanity of the Colonial Exhibition
with the idea that those worthy gentlemen will in
due course carry the gospel of grovel to their
friends across the seas. The jubilations of the
Tories over these petty acts of diplomacy are
entertaining and instructive. They regard a royal
pageant as the panacea for discontent. Before
the beatific vision of a Queen “in person’?the
" disloyalty,” so-called, of people who presume to
think for themselves, must necessarily fade away.
A court is one of those benevolent institutions
which only requires to be brought under the
immediate notice of the public to enlist universal
sympathy on its behalf. These are the doc-
trines religiously upheld by British Tories,
and slavishly adopted by aspiring snobs on
either side of the line. “ The continued
seclusion of her Majesty”—to quote a well-worn
wail of the dailies—is held to have been wholly
and solely accountable for the marked develop-
ment of Radicalism during recent years, and her
sudden anxiety to put her robust figure en evidence
proves that the elderly lady has been herself
taught to accept this consoling explanation of an
uncomfortable fact. For the next few months we
must expect to be dosed with details of roya
masqueradings ad nauseam. An energetic policy
of truckling to toadyism may serve to postpone
the inevitable doom of monarchy in England,
Snobocracy is acquiring a certain access of
strength with which to offer a feeble resistance to
the steady march of Democracy on the strong*
holds of hereditary humbug. Thus far are these
inaugural ceremonies and “ butchering ” banquets
to be deplored. But, on the other hand, they wllj
give a vast amount of joy to the dally papers, to
the ladies who assemble to criticise the quality,
and to the noble thieves who industriously pick the
pockets of the fair sycophants.


Personal
Items
Mudgee Taylor has come back from Eng-
land a pronounced Protectionist.
It is related of a certain festive young
personage who is just now In much trouble in one
of the colonies, that he and his brother, when in
England a few years ago, managed to lose £lO,OOO
between them over the Oxford and Cambridge
boat-raoe.
The ex-Empress Eugenie, according te a
pretty little yarn in the Home News, recently
described herself as “ homeless.” Poor lady, for-
tune has played her scurvy tricks. But she has
something left to buy a home with if she wants
one badly. She has about a million sterling, we
believe.
The present ground-rents of the Duke of
Westminster are £200,000 a year. In 30 years time
at the present rate of increase of value of property
he or his heirs will draw a million and a half. The
Duke of Bedford already has an income of £lOO,OOO
a year from ground-rents and a total Income of
half a million. Lord Portman has £6o,ooo'a year
ground rents.
Mr. Stuart Cumber-
land’s chief object In
travelling is to gain in-
formation on Australian
affairs generally, with
special reference “ to.lm-
perial Federation.”
Horace Bent neatly says
the Federal Minstrels
travel with exactly the
same object.
Judge Noel, of Vic-
toria, is dead, aged 59. He
was tbe eldest son of the
famous Hon. and Rev.
Baptist Neel, was grand-
son to Baroness Barham,
and related to the Gains-
borough family. One of
bis sons is a Judge In
Queensland, and another
is a surveyor in N.S.W.
Mr. H. GK Smith, of
Fairlight (Manly Beach),
Sydney, Is dead. He built
and owned the first steam
vessel in Australian
waters. The Surprise, a
paddle steamer of 15 tons,
made her first voyage
from Parramatta In 1833
in four hours, the fastest
on record up to that date.
J. O. Williamson has
shown his sympathy with
the Shakesperian Society
in Melbourne, by a sub-
scription of £35 for the
purchase of prizes. Such
an act only accords with
“the eternal fitness of
things;” for who should
respect the divine Wil-
liam more than William’s
son? Go up one, James
Cassius.
When President
Cleveland, who is a
bachelor, sent 20 dollars
to Mrs. Scott, of Indiana,
on her presenting the
world with three young
Yanks, the Press called
upon him unanimously
to do better-to hurry
up, marry one of the fair
maids or widows who
adore him, and bring
triplets to the White
Bouse.
The Rev. Mr. Watkin,
the oldest Wesleyan
minister South of the
equator, died in Sydney
the other day. We gather
from the Sydney Morn-
iko Herald that the
venerable gentleman
held the opinion that the
Colensos, Huxleys, Spen-
cers, Darwins, Tyndalls,
and Arnolds, of modern
times, were amongst the
most dangerous elements
of society.
The worm has
turned at last. The Ma-
oleay Argus says, in re
the farewell banquet to
tbe gorgeous Burdett
Smith:-” By judiciously
expending 30 pieces of
silver in Sydney, Judas
Iscariot could have been
entertained at one of the
grandest banquets ever
given in the metropolis
of snobbery. Had Judas
lived in that city h 0
would probably ha v e
done so instead of hang-
ing himself with a second-
hand clothes line.
The Maharajah Holkar, of India, must be
a bit of a wag in his Oriental way. On recovering
from a dangerous Illness the Maharajah took the
opportunity of impressing his sub-subjects with a
due sense of his personal worth. He distributed
his weight in gold among the poor. The faithful
subjects are now busy fattening up their Prince
against his next attack.
Spoflorth, it is cabled, is ill. Wo hope it’s
nothing serious. Since landing in England, the
“ Demon’s ” bowling seems to have been consider-
ably punished, and its brilliancy has been some-
what eclipsed by the trundling of Garrett. We all
remember how when Frank Allan, the Victorian
“ bowler of a century,’ got knocked about, he
used without delay to be afflicted by a bad dose of
*• sciatica.” Perhaps Fwedewiok has now got the
" sciatica.”
Mr. Broadhurst, the “ workingman ”
Under-Secretary for Home Affairs, has had the
good sense to put up his back against wearing
ourt dress, and even declines to dine out in a
swallow-tail coat. This is an Interesting item of
Information at a time when eur nobles, who have
enjoyed the bliss of being “ presented,” are ambi-
tious to appear at Government House in knee-
breeches and a sword. The English workingman
and the Australian snob are each prepared to faoe
ridicule after their respective fashions. The one
In the garb to which he was horn, the other In the
garb to which he wasn’t.
Onslow Knight, travelling photographer,
sued the Cairns Chronicle for libel. Defendant
offered ss. to meet the claim of £3OOO, but the Jury
found for £350, “And,” says the editor, “we must
• f or k out.’ ”He follows with this cheerful par. :
•» Addition to our staff.—We have much pleasure
In announcing that owing to “ pressure ” of busi-
ness we were compelled to receive anew hand into
the office. The gentleman referred to is a meek-
looking individual who popped In last night and
announced himself as ‘Brown the Bailiff.' Alas,
dear readers, ’tis true. Brown is here on behalf of
Archibald Meston, the alligator-man.”
“ The husband of Madame Patti,” says the
Argus London correspondent, “has been tele-
graphing to Bucharest for a title of nobility which
has been promised her.” The poor old Argus is
always at sea in discussing theatrical folk. The
angelic Adelina doesn’t happen to have a husband
just at the present time. The De Caux connection
is severed, and Nicolini—who has been saving up
for her, as Dick Swiveller expressed it, these many
years—will lead her to tbe altar in June. By the
way, one would have thought that the Queen of
Song was above a Bulgarian title of nobility.
The triumphant tour of the Victorian
Governor, Sir Henry Loch, and suite, through
Gippsland, was not altogether an unmlxed
blessing to the good people of that picturesque
district. At Bairnsdale, par exemple. the Governor
was banqueted. It was a gorgeous spread.
Bairnsdale quality, intoxicated with the joy of
feeding in company with an Excellency and suite,
gave themselves up to the delirium of the moment.
They ate, drank, and were merry, and on the
morrow the hill came in And considering that
they were only charged £199 (335. per head) it does
seem rough that the caterer should now be suing
the shire for the amount of his bill in a Melbourne
court. Bairnsdale must learn to take its hitters
with its suites.
“ The public hangman of Queensland, has
resigned his position In consequence of his name
having been made public. Advertisements have
been published inviting applications from those
anxious for the post.” With Separation staring
her in the face, and the “ State Scourger and
Executioner” going back on her, Queensland
must be in a bad way. They ought to wire at
once for Sir Claude de Crespigny, who does that
sort of thing as an amateur. What a crushing
blow to the other colonies it would be to have a
baronial hangman I And what a stimulus crime
would have given to it In Queensland if the
The Majesty of the Law.
“Three Justices of the Peace appeared in the dock on one morning at Roma, Queensland—two of them charged with
drunkenness.”— Daily Paper.
PRESIDING BEAK (loq.): "WELL. BOYS, BEFORE I DEAL WITH YEZ, TELL ME WHERE YE GOT TO AFTHER I LEFT YEZ
LASHT NIGHT.”
punishment consisted of being led to the triangles,
and put through by one of “ our old nobility I ”
At 15&0 lashes a “loyal” Queenslander would yell
for morel
Twenty-four people, we read, have ap-
plied in Brisbane for the vacant hangmanshlp,
whiph, judging from all accounts, is quite a nice
little billet. What, we wonder, is the pre-
sent occupation of the Herculean “ State Ex-
ecutioner and Scourger ” of whom Bobby
Byrne and the rest of the Lash worshippers
and Gibbetolaters were so proud but a week or
two ago ? Is he mad because they won’t let him
flog Carmichael any more ? This news about
the numerousness of the aspirants to the filthy
office of Government Man-butcher recalls the
story told of old Sir Charles Cowper, who, when he
was Premier of N.S.W., and was button-holed by
a billet-hunter, used to put his hand into his coat-
tail pocket, take out a roll of papers and say: “I
assure you, my dear sir, there isn’t a vacancy.
The Civil service is quite overdone. See, I have
40 applications for the hangmanshlp.”
In the matter of eating, the late Judge
Blake, of Queensland, was unique. He had a par-
ticular hankering for fresh eggs, and, when on
circuit, it was not unusual to sec him worry
through a selection of hen-fruit on the judicial
bench during the progress of a lengthy law-suit.
But It was when the supply of eggs at his hotel
gave signs of running short, that the old man ex-
hibited a masterly tact in securing a monopoly and
establishing a “ corner ”in his favourite fare. He
would take his seat at the table, deliberately take
up an egg, fracture the; shell with a dexterity and
skill only acquired by long and arduous practice,
go through the pantomime of testing its sweetness
by the sense of smell, and then quietly return it to
the place whence it came, repeating the proceed-
ings until he had prospected as many as he deemed
would make a square meal. As his Honor was
known to be a connoisseur in such matters, those
eggs would bo regarded with suspicion bordering
on contempt by the rest of the company, and
finally he would fare sumptuously on the dis-
carded Items, smiling graciously the while.
There should be a rosy time before the
Rev. Francis Anderson, who has just been im-
ported to assist Charles Strong In floating the new
“ Australian ” church at Melbourne. We take
this catalogue of the cleric’s charms from an even-
ing paper.—One “ handsome, round face—clean
shaven, except over the upper lip.”
Two “ keen, dark grey eyes.”
One “ well - developed forehead
crowned with silken hair, to which,
as also to the moustachios, the Cale-
donian sand and Saxon flax alike con-
tribute colouring.”
When we add that the Rev. Prank’s “ 38 summers
have failed to rob him of the spring-like Hush and
charm of youth,” it will be apparent to anyone
who understands these matters that the new-chum
“ assistant” has a blissful prospect in front of him.
All the girl adherents of the “ Australian church”
walked home on air after his first sermon, and
seating themselves at their several pianos, played
“ O, come let us adore him,” with infinite feeling
and expression. With such a fascinating jeun
premier the Rev. Charles Strong’s show ought to
hum indeed.
Lady Hinton, wife of the unfortunate
nobleman who Is doing 13 months for defrauding
shopkeepers, keeps the pot boiling during her
lord’s enforced absence, by dancing breakdowns
at low class music halls. And, by the way. there
seems to be some doubt as to whether Lord Hinton
is Lord Hinton, don’t you know. Earl Poulett,
the revered pater, disputes his eldest son’s legitl
macy on what appears the ridiculous ground that
he was born five months after his mother’s mar-
riage. But as his mamma was an “ honest woman ”
at the time that the giddy Hinton came into this
breathing world fully made up (Shakespeare), we
can see no cause to question his right to be re-
garded as an hereditary legislator. Yea, as a ruler
of the people, for in the fullness of time, when
Earl Poulett has been gathered to his fathers, the
delectable Hinton will reign in his stead and be-
come a full-blown peer and law-giver. In happier
days he figured as clown in a pantomime ;now he
is a convict, anon he will be a peer of the British
realm. From the stage to the prison yard, and
from the prison yard to an earldom 1 Really the
career of this unfortunate man promises to he one
long story of distinction. Oh, and by the way, we
are not surprised to learn that a duchess—Heaven
bless her I—has bequeathed Lord Hinton £5OO a
year. When he comes out of gaol he ought to do
well—in Australia.
A late cablegram tells us that “the Right
Rev. Dr. Moorhouse, lata Bishop of Melbourne,
was yesterday formally enthroned as Bishop of
Manchester. The attendance was very large.
After the ceremony, a soiree was held, at which
the [new bishop made a lengthy and eloquent
speech. In the course of his remarks he com-
mented on the prevalence of socialism In England
as compared with Victoria.” This is how the
“cablegram” appears in the Sydney dailies; as
received It probably ran:—“Moorhouse enthroned
contrasted Socialism England Victoria.’ The
“large attendance,” “lengthy and eloquent
speech,” and so on, are, In all human probability,
mere figments of the imagination. It Is amusing
to note the more than royal progress of Bishop
Moorhouse as recorded In the Australian dailies,
whose correspondents aim at giving this continent
the idea that all England la grovelling at the feet
of a mere bishop who gave up £3OOO a year at
Melbourne for £4OOO a year at Manchester. A pre-
vious cablegram announced:—“Dr. Moorhouse
arrived per as. to-dayl” Then we read a day or
two later:—“Dr. Moorhouse will do homage to the
Queen on Tuesday.” Farther on we were told
that: “Dr. Moorhouse did homage to the Queen
to-day.” Nextly we received with enthusiasm the
cabled notification:—“Dr. Moorhouse will be en-
throned on the 18th.” Now we are wired that:
“ Dr. Moorhouse has been enthroned.” The Lord
bo praised I Is there any more ?
Here is a hitherto unpublished sonnet by
Longfellow. Eighteen years after the poet lost his
wife through an accident—burning—he saw a
picture which recalled the place where she rests—
a mountain with snow-drifts arranged in the form
of a cross:
“ In the long, sleepless watches of the flight,
A gentle face—the fade of one long dead—
Looks at me from the wall, where round Its hefid
The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light.
Here In this rooifl she died; and soul rhore white
Never through martyrdom of Are was Ihd
To its repose ; nor cafl in books be redd
The legend of a life more benighted.
There is a mountain in the distant West
That Sun-defying in its dehp ravines
Displays a cross of snow upon its aide.
Such is the cross I wear upon my breast
These eighteen years, through all the changing
scenes
And seasons, changeless since the day she died.”
Mr. T. O. Binney, the N.S.W. Registrar of
Mines, a most amiable gentleman, and the beau
ideal of a Civil servant of the present day, fell sick
—from zealous over-work, no doubt. We felt
sorry for Mr. Binney. He obtained six months’
leave of absence, We felt glad for Binney. We
thought he would go home, rest, eat treacle-
E ossets, put his feet in mustard-and-water, tallow
is nose, tie a piece of red flannel round his throat
swallow rum-and-butter gruel, go through a’
course of peptonized cod-liver oil and Warner’s
safe cure, get up in a week, sit near the fire for
two days, and then, having no more stories to tell
little Tommy, go ruralising amid the grim water-
less Blue Mountains for a space. But no -instead
of all this Binney went to London and threw him-
self Into the vortex of the Indo-Colonial Exhibi-
tion Commissionership struggle. He was made a
Commissioner, and, as a consequence, Binney will
return nolens volens, a C.M.G. It is hard that a
respectable man should be treated with such in-
dignity, but, all the same, It serves him right.
It is reported by
cable that Professor von
Ranke, whose 90th birth-
day was celebrated a
month ago, is dead. He
Is best known to English
readers by his “History
of the Popes”—a work
which Cardinal Moran
decides Is unreliable. For
many years past he had
been engaged on the vast
undertaking of writing a
history of the world,
which, It was said, he
hoped to complete in
about three years from
now.
Hon. John Colton,
at the (Adelaide) Wes-
leyan Jubilee breakfast,
said that undoubtedly
these seasons of depres-
sion were “ sent for the
good of mankind.” Oh,
cert’nly, John. Nothing
is so calculated t o
strengthen faith, rouse
the heart, confirm hon-
esty, and raise a crop of
manly virtues as an
empty stomach, andbalf-
a-dezen bootless howling
children; or, to see 10,000
dead sheep on your run,
with the bullocks*
tongues hanging out a
foot for want of water,
and the bank agent rid-
ing up to foreclose that
mortgage. If hunger and
poverty are for the good
of mankind then let us
pray for drought all the
time. We’ll wager that
John Colton always has
his little eight meals a
day.
The career of the
Abbe Liszt, who is 75
years old, and is now pay-
ing a visit to London, has
.been the most brilliant
and striking that any
musician has ever had,
with the exception per-
haps of Farinelli. At the
present moment his ap-
pearance is that rather of
the patriarch of the art
than of its almost super-
natural expositor; but 30
yeais ago, before his
golden hair had turned
white, and when his
singularly bright eyes
were alive with their al-
most historic fire, he was
perhaps the beau Ideal of
the concert pianist.
Apropos of some of the
< ricks of gesture in which
he so freely indulged
when he was playing the
piano, Berlioz once said:
“ Other musicians play
with their fingers, but as
for Liszt, be plays with
his hair.” How many
second and third-rate
pianists of the present
day mimic his manner-
isms with their flaming
Ipcks, and yet fall to in-
terest their wearied audi-
ences I There seems no
doubt that the fashion of
long hair for musicians
was first set by Liszt. To
him, Indeed, we are in-
debted for that most
wondrous spectacle, Mr.
Rivers Alpress of the
Beautiful Hair.
Everybody who was in Australia when
Frank Gardiner, Ben Hall, the Clarkes, and other
Australian Turpins hold the roads must remember
Jim Wright, one of the most experienced bush-
men, best riders, straightest shots, and pluckiest
fellows who ever joined the N.S.W. police force.
After doing good service in the Crimean war,
Wright came to Australia to try his luck, and in
course of time got a billet with the mounted
troopers at Bashurst. Whilst there he became the
terror of the bushrangers, cattle-duffers, and other
enterprising parties whose ideas ofmeum andtuum
wore badly mixed, and was justly looked upon as
one of the most reliable men in the service. It
was during the height of those rouseabout times
that the bloodthirsty Clarkes started business
down South, and one of the bush “ telegraphs ’
in their pay haring agreed to turn traitor
to the gang, four smart detectives were sent
from Sydney to join him, and secure the
desperadoes. A few days later five men were
found dead in their tracks in the heart of the
Clarke .district. The brothers had been cautioned,
and lying in ambush picked off their men without
a moment’s warning. A burst of public indigna-
tion at the Inefficiency of the police force followed;
Wright was sett off in pursuit with a few other
good men, and the result was that the Clarkes
were swinging from the gallows beam a few
months after. As bushranglng and active service
began to wane, so also did Wright’s command over
himself begin to grow less firm. Finally, on Fri-
day last, the wrestler Drink tripped him up for
the last time, and poor Wright met his death by a
fall from the verandah of a Bathurst pub. He had
but one fault, and wo should think kindly of him
now, for he was a man who did the State some ser-
vice.
At 8 o’clock on the morning of Tuesday
week a respectably-connected girl, 31 years of age,
shot herself dead at Tattersall’a Hotel, Bourke,
N.S.W. At 3in the afternoon an inquest wrS
hold, and conducted, as it seems to us, witn
undue if not indecent haste. The coroner appeals


Eczema TwanSj Tears.
My gratitude to God is unbounded for the relief I
have obtained from the use of the CtraioiTßA
Remedies. I have been troubled with eczema on
my legs for twenty years. I had not a comfortable
night for years, the burning and itching was in-
tense. Now, lam happy to say I have no trouble*
Only the liver-coloured patches on my limbs re-
main as a token of my former misery. HENRY L<
SMITH, 188 West Ave., Rochester, N.Y.
Wolfe's Schnapps, the grandest tonio in
the world.
Drowsiness, biliousness, pains and aches,
and ague, Hop Bitters always cures if made by
American Co. Read
Sedentary pursuits are enfeebling. Then
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
to have assured the jury that it would make no
difference to call before them the owner of the
pistol with which the unhappy girl did the deed.
In the girl’s pocket was found a letter addressed to
Mr. Biddulph, but although that gentleman (who,
by the way, holds a good position in local society,
and is a churchwarden) is a boarder at the hotel
and well known, he was not called as a witness.
It having been publicly suggested at the in-
ouest that “perhaps deceased was an ambi-
tious girl, and fancied Mr. Biddulph had
paid her attention” (although nothing of the
sort appears to have come out in evidence) it
seems a pity that Mr. Biddulph was not, in jus-
tee .to himself, given by the coroner ian oppor-
tunity of explaining away or throwing any pos-
sible light upon the dead girl’s statement as to the
pause of her unhappiness. The letter read as fol-
lows:—“ Bourke, May 17. 1886 -Mr. Biddulph.-
Mv dear old friend,—When you read this I will b ?
gone. You have been the cause of making me
very unhappy for many months. This is the end
of my young—(word omitted here; ‘life’sug-
gested by the coroner). I trust that no one be-
longing to you will ever go through what I have.
I am quite discontented with myself for what I
have done. I ask you for the last time to see me
attended to and buried. So farewell, my dear old
friend. Pray for me. Yours no more in this
world, Sophia Jane Maoneb.” In any case the
suggestion volunteered as to the girl’s “ ambi-
tiousnesa ” and so on was—in face of the fact that
the gentleman named could have been asked for
any direct evidence on the subject which he might
happen to possess—not only an official imperti-
pence, bait an utterance too to heimpwpgriV
construed as an attempt to smooth over an ug y
question.
The notorious Cora Pearl has given hor
•• memoirs ”to the world. She lived 1 iSLThe
nniendid guilt and guilty splendour during the
palmy days of the Empire, after the fate oi wbich
she burst out again into notoriety owing tot he
attempted suicide of young who shot him
in her drawing-room, and, as she complained,
•‘ snniicd the carpet.” For this Cora was ordered
out of France, and from that day she dropped
rapidly down to a state in which she hopedto get
a few bank-notes by the sale of her hook. The
vninme is dull and has no redeeming point. It
isn't even naughty-it is only brutal in the frank-
ness with which the woman glories in the vast
sums of money which she f ob^? r e^ a f^^ s h Tffis
mirera at the expense of
monov Cora squandered i i the most recxiesa ex
travagance. Thousands upon thousands ot pounos
she would fling away during a fortnight s stay at a
fashionable watering place, and .be would ~ pend
over a hundred pounds on the .flowers tor came
for a single dinner. The book is good reading as a
moral le? son to the men who
over worthless women of the Cora I earl order.
Sho boasts openly that she never cared a straw for
one of them, and that while one “lover was ruin-
ing himself and impoverishing his fami y to
satisfy her extravagances she was playing the
lame game with half-a-dozen others. Several
letters from her admirers are published, and some
of them are almost pathetic to those who can read
between the lines. They nearly all mention re
mittances,” and regret that altered circumstances
will not allow a larger amount. As a specimen of
the morality of the great men of the Second Em-
pire, and the daring of “ ces dames,” one passage
of Cora’s story is worth quoting. She has made
the acquaintance of the “Due Jean,” who allows
her £3OO a month, and she visits him occasionally
at his house. The duke is married. “ After that
I often returned to house. I had a key
which opened a side door. I slept sometimes in
the next room to the duchess’s companion. The
return of the duchess made no difference to my
visits to the duke. I dined immediately after his
wife, in the same room, and was waited upon by
the same servants. Often while I was dining I
could hear the duchess talklfg? and the children
playing in the next room.” What a charming pic-
ture of morals under the Second Empire I
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Over 300 pairs of blankets were distributed
at Townsville recently to the blacks. The blacks
re-distributed them to the public at “ five bob ’
each. A bottle of rum and a fig of tobacco would
be more acceptable, but then the gentlemen who
get the blankets after distribution would be short
of carpeting for their kitchens—A tambourine is
the latest addition to the Harmy band in Brisbane.
Queen Victoria, Aged 67.
Adjutant Wright* having done 48 hours for playing
a cornet in the streets, now falls back on the tam-
bourine as an unmusical instrument Dog-
poisoning is frequent in Bega. The poisoner-man
should come along to Sydney with his lamb-chops
and strychnine.... The Minister for Railways is
consulting Mr. Goodchap about how to work
the N.B.W. railways to satisfy Gundagai
“ Progressive Euchre Progressing Hellward at the
Rate of a Mile a Minute—Corner Lots in Heaven!”
This is merely the heading of a sermon published
in an American paper. If the Sydney D.T. would
put such head-lines over the sermons of the gar-
rulous Jefferis nearly everyone would read them.
The head-lines we mean, not the sermons.... Two
ghosts are reported, one at Werris Creek and an-
other at Penrith, The best prescription for ghosts
is—one shot-gun; dried peas, loz ; powder, quant,
suff. Apply to ghost’s legs.. .Miss Mills, the cham-
pio i big-footed girl of America, proposes to visit
Australia. If she comes to Sydney and gets a
glimpse at the foot-prints of some of the Potts
Point maidens the shock will probably kill her. She
will die of envy if she gets over her surprise....
A Brisbane P.M. has ruled that the common prao-
tico of drawing a line through a newspaper para-
graph to draw attention to it, renders the sender
liable to a fine Pursuit of knowledge under
difficulties. Some children near Walgett, N.S.W.,
in order to get to school, have, in Grossing a onrk,
to walk along a wire, holding on to another
wire stretched above A Mudgee man recently
picked up a £3O-note, and of course we all know
times are bad about Mudgee. Besides, £3O is a lot
of money, and . But no. Mudgee man or no
Mudgee man, let bygones be bygones. He re-
turned it to the owner The Standard
urges the annexation, in a regular way,
of Lord Howe’s Island. The Standard evi-
dently doesn’t know that Langley lives there.
The owners of a station whereon a scrub
Is being felled to keep the sheep alive, advertise
for 1000 head of cattle to be taken on agistment.....
We see by the Manning River Times that the
comet which recently gave Sydney a turn, is now
smiling upon Kempsey, and appears to be so struck
with that place that it refuses to move on A
man in Brewarrina got in debt and went up a
tree. The tree was recently cut down, and his
skeleton is now ready for distribution amongst
his creditors Sydney Evening News advt.:—
“ Wanted, in a gentleman’s family in the country,
a gardener, to milk, and take care of a horse.”....
The Progressive Association of Spiritualists are
holding a bazaar at the Melbourne Temperance
Hall this week. The building, it appears, posi-
tively bristles with spirits, only you can’t see
them. They don’t even make their presence felt.
But they are there, right ecough. “Skywalky,”
for instance, is very much there. His spirit is
understood to be business manager at the hall,
and his picture—that of a North American In-
dian—adorns one of the stalls. Chief Secretary
Deakin is believed to be one of the Skywalky’s
boon spirit companions The Wesleyans of Vic-
toria have sitting accommodation for 135,940. The
devout disciples of honest John can therefore
lie on the forms and rest comfortably when the
sermon becomes fatiguing A long-felt want—
a drink Five workmen lost their lives on the
Hergott railway through departmental neglect.
The Government have buried Smith and Owen,
and now—have sent in the undertaker’s bill to the
relatives. S.A. is a liberal country.
• 9 »
Swiss ladies are not allowed by law to
lace their corsets beyond so much. Belgian ladies
are not allowed to “ improve ” too much for fear
of smuggling in dutiable goods. Now then, is
not Australia the land of the brave and the home
of the free When a European man is stuck for
an excuse to go away now he sticks a pen into
his shin, faints at the door, and murmurs—“ H-
ydrophobia—mad dog—Paris—quick 1 0 ut of
847 “first-class” duels in Franca since 1870,
only nine resulted in one of the parties
being disabled. In 98 per cent, of the eases
the combatants left the field unscathed....
Two lenses each 3ft. in diameter have been finished
for the great refracting telescope in the Lick
Observatory. California. They are the largest
ever cast. The final polishing is done by the hand
smeared with rouge, and the removal of an extra
two or three grains would ruin the glasses.... An
American lady poured boiling water into her hus-
band’s ear. Tympanum destroyed, but peace
reigns on the Potomac..,.Hacker, the “Oasian
Giant,” of America, is dead, aged 50. As a young
giant he stood Tft. and weighed over 33st.
Whpn he died be had shrunk to 6ft llin. He was
strong in proportion —In a Lancashire paper to
hand two-thirds of a column is given to an account
of the shipping of a female elephant for Barnum’s
American show, and a one-inch paragraph to Glad-
stone’s great speech British Government
have finally abandoned the practice of offering
rewards for information leading to the conviction
of criminals and of granting free pardons to accom-
plices. Experience shows that it has failed.
For trying to extort £5OO from a Justice of the
Peace in England another Justice sent Benjamin
Judge to penal servitude for life. Had he merely
threatened to take life, it might have been
different. But money is money in these times.
—Professor Huxley in the Popular Science
Monthly says be regards the Mosaic account of
the Creation as a myth, and valuable only so far
as illustrating the best attempts the men of the
time could make to explain the unexplainable.
Humboldt said the same thing 40 years ago
when he found everywhere the legend of the
Flood, and each race claiming to be descend-
ants of the survivors of that heavy shower....
Mrs. Langtry is going to appear in French ere
long with Lefebre.... A Hindoo named Tulse Ram
came all the way from India to London to lay
some grievance before the Queen, and got looked
up for vagrancy. Tawhlao, the Maori King, got
away just in time—“ Are you happy now, dear?’*
asked a widow of her departed, resurrected for
her benefit at a recent spiritualistic seance.
“ Yes,” was the immediate reply. “ Happier than
when on earth ? ” “ Yes.” “ Then you must be
in Heaven ? ” she said, with a deep and thankful
sigh. “On the contrary, lam In hell,” replied the
old boy with a chuckle,... Bismarck Is now inhla
73nd year....A scientist says that a spider eats 36
times its own weight daily. Not wishing to rival
the spider we avoid the pastry at our hash-house...
A Russian named Hellhoff has discovered a new
explosive stronger than nitro-glycerine. It has
an agreeable smelt, and the patentee suggests a
sprinkling of it over the Czar’s pillow to keep
away mosquitoses The fisheries dispute, which
has been raging for years between Canada and the
U.S, is getting very hot—the Canadians arming
steamers to enforce their claims.


From Byrnes’ Liberator we Jearn that
Mrs. C. Getley, of Bradlaugh House, Sydney,
has opened a freethought hoarding-house. Joe
trusts the secularists will patronise the establish-
ment. So do we. With the loss of all our back
teeth, and a lower jaw swinging by pieces of rope-
yarn lashed around our ears, from the many
Plevna attacks we have made on orthodox joints,
we always were hungrily looking out for some less
dynamltlsh way of eating ourselves into the grave.
We are trying batching for a while, and shall be
glad to receive reports and compare notes with
secularists. We also suggest a bill ot fare
for their first experiment:—Soupe aux choux
(cabbage broth) flavoured with ground Brad-
laugh spice, and cayenne a I’lngersoll. Joints
—Roast and boiled Pentateuch; stewed psalms,
pickled prophecy and carrots, apocalyptic pie,
minced miracle, harrlcot Pioton and Pastor Allen
sauce, fried witchcraft, divorce hash and Barry s
sauce, Symea’ cheek and peas, cold Spencer and
onions, do. Tyndall and beans, Darwin cutlets, and
to wind up, a bottle or so of Joe Cook and Or.
Moran’s line old crusty argument. With Tom
Walker at the head of the table to say grace, and
Josephus to pronounce the benediction and b.ess
the collection nlate, we think Mrs. G’s. household
should flourish, and be a standing rebuke to the
orthodox establishments which abound.
Ml H E A T R E JK O I A L.
, 1 Under the direction - of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musobote.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
TWELFTH WEEK of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY. MAY 37,
at 8 o’clock precisely, terminating at 10.40,
Last Night but one of
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE.
FRIDAY, May 28 Complimentary Benefit to
Miss JENNY WATT-TANNER.
SATURDAY, May 39, first production in Sydney
of a Domestic Drama, entitled HAZEL KIHKE.
Admission: Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
Royal standard theatre
CASTLEREA6H-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
. Under the Management of Mr. D ampler.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, MAY 27,
Production of a dramatic version, in 5 acts, of the
late Charles Dickens’ David Copperlield, entitled
OUR BM’LY.
DAN’L PEGGOTTY .. ... Mr. DAMPIER,
by the full strength of the!most
popular combination of artists.
In preparation, “ HIS NATURAL LIFE.”
Popular Prices—Dress Circle 3s„ Stalls 35., Pit Is.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
GA I B T|T THEATRE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
Universal Verdict-BETTER THAN EVER.
Something to drive away dull care, and make you
happy.
Have you seen the WIDOW’S IRISH REEL ?
No I THEN DON’T MISS IT.
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. W. Hughes.
Agent H. J. Samuel.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith,
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth,
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTBLSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony. Is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Splrltuel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
Exhibition building
THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr. Willard begs to announce to the general
public that, in consequence of the Exhibition
Building being pre-engaged for an Industrial
Exhibit, the stay of the Japanese must necessarily
be a brief one, and although in
THE ZENITH OF BUC3ESS,
Thousands visiting the Village daily,
he has determined upon making the price of
, admission
Ona Shilling,
to enable all to witness this Most Novel Extra-
ordinary Amalgamation of Theatrical and
Industrial Incmgrulties,
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS RE-DIVIVA.
Tickets are for sale at W. H. Paling’s and Nichol-
son and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION fflvcn every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
DOBBYNS’ HALL,
Junee Junction.
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centro of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
Gr
LB B E
ROWING CLUB.
SEVENTH ANNUAL BALL,
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
FRIDAY, 4th JUNE, 1886.
EVENING DRESS.
Tickets may be had from the Committee.
H. R. COX, Hon. Sec , 103 Pitt-street.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treas., Cash Branch, G.P.O.
ORTH SHORE ROWING CLUB’
FIFTH ANNUAL BAIL.
Under the patronage of
LORD CARRINGTON and the MAYOR OF
SYDNEY,
Will be held in
PROFESSOR WEST’S ROOMS,
Leigh House, Castlereagh-street,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, 11th JUNE, 1886,
Tickets : Ladies’, 13s 61.; Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 30s.
May be had from members of the Club, any of the
principal shops, or from
H. H. ROBEY. Hon. Stc.
No. 11 Bridge street-
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, May 25,18E6
rBNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUI
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fob
owing Public Works an* Supplies. For full partl-
ulara see Government Gazette, a file of which
l kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
Are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will he announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will he taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to Accept
the lowest or Any tender.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, Sydney j
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
BDGBIBS.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
f
d
fd
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
With Side Spring's.
WAGGONS,
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
c
S
IRONMONGERS
12
5
X
o
V
o
%
$
SPECIALITIES:
Davis ’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint ,
Albo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking Stoves t—Leonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
J^YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch
SOUTHERN TOUR.
Marulan—Thursday, May 27
Moss Yale—Friday, May 38
Mlttagong—Saturday, May 39
Bowral—Monday and Tuesday, May 31 and June
y icton—Wednesday, June 2
Camden—Thursday, June 3
Camphelltown—Friday, June 4
Liverpool—Saturday, June 5
1
Newcastle, Maitland, &0., to follow.
THE REV. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Bojs, past and present, will
be held at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange,
Sydney, ON WEDNESDAY, thegSrd JUNE NEX r,
at 3.30 o’clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retiree into
private life. , J
Contributions and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take will be re-
ceived by any of the undersigned who rely on a
ready response to this notice.
E. P. RAMSAY. Museum, Sydney '
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-
street, Sydney
RICHARD E. KEMP, M.A., St.
Peters. Richmond
E J. JENKINS. Medical Superin- I
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi- I
tal, Sydney
JAS. a. BRODIE, Colonial Secre- I
tary’s Office, Sydney. J
Joint
Hon.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “Misslllla,” 12 Cassa of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
spscirlly selected by Mr. Noake on hla tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ ipiller’s,”
whose reputation Is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKt’S ESTABLISHMENTS,
320 and 446 George-st ,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
A MEETING of Ladit : s willing to assist in carry-
ing, out the FEASTS and ENTERTAIN-
MENTS to be given the Inmates of the Destitute
Asylums at Liverpool, Parramatta, and Newing-
ton. will kindly meet at the up-stairs tea-rooms of
Mr. Quong Tart, Sydney Arcade, cn Friday even-
ing next, 28 ,h Inst., at 7 30.
EOBT. GUY, J P„ Hon Sec.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons*
MINIM.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY,!
/ n
5252
&
W'ECIAUjY IMPOBTBp FOB CJT7 OB COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
(WT.EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


Be warned in time and take Wolfe s
Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain.
Hop Bitters gives good digestion, active
liver,lgood circulation and buoyant spirits. ue 4
the only genuine American Cos Bead.
Individuals ■afflicted with gravel or other
kidney difficulties need Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Drink Wolfe's Schnapps and enjoy good
health.
“ That intoxicating liquors he only served
in the refresh ment-room, of the House at meal
times.” Such was a notice given by an hon.
member in Maojuarie-street. Could he only see
the wine sparkling with richest clearness in the
champagne, okwet, liqueur, port, and sherry
glasses or decanters,, supplied by those princes of
glassware importers, Bray Bros.. George-
street, he might never submit another such
motion.*
If suffering from mental depression take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Persons whose avot nations keep them in-
doors should take occasionally Wolfe s Schnapps,
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
vVolfe’s Schnapps— A medicine for body
and mind—A time honoured preparation.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for
many years a standard professional remedy.
Know ye all men that Wolfe’s Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
Time after all is the one grand test. WOLFE’S
Schnapps has been 36 years before the public.
The wearied and anxious business man
Should use Wolfe’s Schnapps*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROT At-" The Magistrate P. 8
Gaiety Theatre—" Fun on the Bristol ’... „
Alham bra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce..... „
Royal Standard Theatre Our B m’ly . ~
Exhibition Building-Japanese Village .. ~
There will be a change at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night. In fact there will be something
of a change on Friday night, for then Miss Watt-
Tanner is to blend with the stormy laughter
of “The Magistrate” the breezy mirth of Wi-
thered Leaves.” We thought she would have
done this last week. Miss Tanner also thought it.
Fully a couple of dozen people believed It. But
the triumvirate with a drawing piece have a grip
that is vice-llke. Once they get their hands on the
end where the public carries its money they
squeeze and shake, smiling at one another all the
time, till the wallet is empty. It Is said to be their
custom to then let go, to betake themselves to a
cave where no Interruption dare break in upon
their arithmetical meditations, and emerging alter
a while, to divide every penny of the proceeds
among their host of talented actors and actresses.
That Is what makes the triumvirate so beloved by
the profession. It is so rarely employers can be
got to do that sort of thing. In the whole round
■of human amenities there is not, however, any
surer way for employers to elicit the warm affec-
tion of employees than that here indicated.
• « *
In the next piece there will not be so
much laughing. In all great minds there is an
abiding antipathy to sitting down with the express
purpose of laughing for a stated time. The
ancients looked on laughter aaan Indulgence to he
ashamed of. A judge of the Areopagus who
laughed was lost. No eminent man in modern
times was addicted to the practice. Goethe oftener
wept than laughed. So also with Richter. Byron
admits that a fit of laughter made him doubly
serious after. Shelley held that the human race
could not be regenerated until laughter was sup-
pressed. Swinburne often smiles but very rarely
laughs. Gladstone has not laughed heartily three
times in the whole course of bis life. Disraeli
contemned it. Montaigne would permit nothing
beyond a gentle cheerfulness. Even at the present
time, under the Intense provocation of Pinero’s
wit, and in the very thick of the contagious
oacohinatlon that penetrates through every cranny
of the Royal, it may be noticed that Mr. Goodman
lives the higher and the graver life. He smiles, of
course, but that is all.
** * *
“Fun on the Bristol” continues to be
good biz. at the Sydney Gaiety. There la one
character which we have reserved for a separate
notice all to himself. We never liked to crowd
him in with all the others, for although his perfor-
mance is limited the amount of soulfulness which
he extracts therefrom is marvellous. The actor
to whom we allude is Pinkerton Hawkshaw, the
detective. He walks in and arrests a man on a
charge of matrimonial profuseness. That is all,
but his manner of doing it is so perfect as to make
us positively envy the Count who couldn’t keep
count of his wives.
* • •
Various varieties vicariously introduced
help to keep the Bristol as lively as a Salvation
barracks, when the saved sinners and beatified
boozers are having an all-night, go-as-you-please,
devil-driving tournament. We hear on the
whisper that a human cannon-ball will airily fiit
head-foremost across the stage as soon as the
necessary cannon is procured. We mean no evil
to any man, but there are several suburban dairy-
men and bailiffs whom we would like to see enact-
ing the part of projectile.
** * *
“Othello” was the first of the Shakes-
pearian dramas at the Sydney Royal Standard
Theatre, and is to constitute the bill on Friday,
the 28th Inst. Dampierian Shakespeare is always
a sure draw, and Friday is set aside for a course
•of this Intellectual diet throughout the season.
The ECHO, with that discernment peculiar to its-
self and to birds of the genus owl, has discovered
that Mr. Dampier's lago differs from that of Irving.
Does it? How wonderful I And the Echo differs
from its London namesake, and also from any
-other journal that is clever.
* ♦ ♦
But to go hack to the Standard. In pro-
ducing “ Our Em’ly,” it may be truthfully as-
serted that Mr. Dampler had to go to the Dickens
for a play, lor this one la an outline of David
'Copperfleld. All such productions must be In
'some degree unsatisfactory, for ail who have read
'the immortal Dickens have wrought upon his
fempie foundations ideal Heeps, Mioawbers, and
Bmilys, which can never be approached by any
Hctor. It is a rude awakening in most cases to
Bee the living representations of these creatures
Of the novelists’ skill and our own fancy; a
species of disillusion which jars one considerably.
Of course there is per contra the pleasure of see-
ing personified in life the characters which
hitherto have lived only in the fancy-world, and
to those who like to see these representations of
familiar novels these are just the kind of repre-
sentation of familiar novels they would like to
see.
* *
Mr. Dam pier envelopes himself in so thick
a layer of Peggotty that it is only just occasion-
ally that his own identity protrudes, and nearly as
much can be’fiald of Harry Leston, although there
sometimes arises from his Mlcawber just a whiff
of Patruoio Gormani. The characters we were
most disappointed with were Tommy Traddles and
Uriah Heep. This was probably because too much
Was expected from them: villainy of the Heep
brand is common enough, but is rarely fined down
to such a point of perfection as In Dickens crea-
tion. Miss Dampler is the interesting heroine, and
Mrs. Walter Hill a terrific Rose Dartle. The
young Mioawbers, although not honoured with
small caps, la the catalogue of the oast are juve-
niles of no mean ability, and their struggles with
loag night-dresses and a high bedstead, entitle
them to rank with the followers of Leonidas.
• « •
Strangely enough, the scenery on Satur-
day night was engineered in an erratic manner,
.and the flats did not join with that accuracy which
usually distinguishes the Dampierian drama.
• * *
Messrs. Searelle and Harding were pre-
vailed upon to extend “La Fille do Madame
Angot” over the week allotted to it at the Sydney
Opera House. And wisely, for to judge from the
size of the audiences “La Fille'' would spread
herself pretty thick over a month’s run For it is
the best chorused, best acted, best sung, and best
orchestra-ed opera the partners have yet tried
here. “ The Grand Duchess ” is to fol.ow.
m* * *
The joyous Japs., at the Exhibition Build-
ing. still hold the boss magnet of the metropolis,
and, as the admission tariff has lately been sub -
jected to startling reduction, it is reasonably cer-
tain that things will continue to jog along as
gaily as a Chowder picnic. While doing the ex-
hilarating show recently there were only two
things we longed for-one was the head of Herr
Patek’s drummer on a pie-dish, the other an axe
wherewith to smash to unnumbered splinters the
“ Sum Sheen,” the national musical instrument of
Japan, for the monotonousness of its action was
only equalled by the vigour of the drummer.
That the latter occasionally managed to drown
the music of tne Sum Sheen is the only redeeming
point in his performance. The show, taken all
through, is as interesting as it is varied, and as In-
structive as the biography of a prominent politi-
cian, Japan takes the belt for acrobatic feats,
which hold a front seat at this show, and always
enthuse the crowd.
»* * *
The Sydney Olympic is again the domicile
of the “Vital Spark.” The company, who
were producing dramas at this temple of the
anojeßts, having made su ffioient in a fortnight to
allow of their living in ailluence and luxury for
the rest of their lives, about the middle of last
week gracefully retired from the vulgar gaze,
and the talented, but by no means youthful
Vital (who received such a nasty back fall in
wrestling with Adversity at this theatre some six
weeks ago) was “ once more Into the breach, dear
friends.” The programme on Saturday night was
the same old song and variety business which has
been incessantly hashed up to the people of all
ages from the fall of man to the present, and,
judged by the scanty and miserable-looking
audience, augured badly for the hopes of the
Vital one. But the Queen’s Birth-night was
marked by the accession of some new talent, of
which we will write in future Issues, if they will
only stay long enough.
** * *
Miss Annetta Soasi baa made her bow to
the audiences of Sydney Alhambra,;and the only
remarkable circumstance in connection with it is
that there has been a wholesale migration of the
old and shiny-beaded sinners from the suburbs to
town, and lodgings in the aristocratic neighbour-
hood of Paddy’s Market and Belmore Park are
already at a premium. Miss Scasl is handsome, has
a good voice and pleasing manner, and gets much
applause for her efforts. An ancient man in the
audience, with a peculiar look in his eye, took us
into his confidence the other night, and told us
that Henry Irving, Ellen Terry, Adelina Patti and
Mrs. Langtry, are engaged by Frank Smith, and on
their way out, and will shortly make their ap-
pearance at the Alhambra. “You needn’t say
anything about it just yet, as I only heard confi-
dentially,” said our informant. Of course we
cheerfully took our solemnest oath we wouldn’t.
* * *
On Sunday evening last, “Professor” 8.
8. Baldwin commenced a series of lectures at Syd-
ney Academy of Music, under the auspices of the
Australasian Secular Association. The subject of
his initial lecture was “Mental Telegraphy, or
Thought Force.” The lecturer has appeared be-
fore the public in Sydney on various occasions,
chiefly in connection with the exposure of
Spiritualistic show business. He had a fair house,
and was tolerably successful with his experiments,
which Included the finding of an object on the
stage, thought of by one of the platform com-
mittee—an object among the audience—and the
discovery of a secreted shawl-pin; the writing on a
board of a number, and then of three numbers,
AT COOGEE.
HE ( abstractedly): “WHAT A GLORIOUS PROSPECT!-WHAT DELIGHTFUL TINTS TO-DAY
ARE FLITTING O’ER THE ILLIMITABLE PACIFIC —"
SHE (practically): “DON’T YOU THINK, GEORGE, WE HAD BETTER BOIL THE BILLY?”
thought off; the locating of a pain. His experi-
ments included one performed by Stuart Cumber-
land, “ through the agency of Mr iG'adstone, In the
House of Commons.” He said that muscle, or
mind-reading was likely to fail in three Instances;
first, when the subject was an idiot, or a small-
brained man; secondly, when the subj act, although
intellectual, was devoid of ideality; thirdly, when
he was determined to defeat the experimenter.
He was somewhat rough on Mr. Stuart Cumber-
land, who stated that he visited Australia, for the
purpose of gaining political information, prior to
entering Parliament in the Jingo Interest, but
who was—humph l-induced to give exhibitions in
Adelaide. Next Sunday evening the “ Professor ”
will dive into the realms of the pseudo-super-
natural.
** * *
A correspondent writes Dear Bul-
letin.—“ The Dan Barry troupe has travelled
North, and has created such a warm affection for
Itself on the way that on the strength of that
affection, it is now going back over the track
brushing up the loose coins. This reminds me of
the deep affection of my father. He said to me
one day—‘Thomas, my son, as you are growing
into man’s estate, I must do something for you.’
And he did. He went to the bank and drew out
£3OO that belonged to me, and immediately
‘ busted It.’ He always said after this that I could
never pay him the many debts I owed him. This
was deep philosophy—l had no money to pay with.
My father and Dan. Barry ought to have been Sal-
vation Army captains I ”
«« « m
It is to America that one must go for real
theatrical criticism. This is the concluding sen-
tence from the notice of an impersonation of
Rosalind: “The world may talk as it will of the
existing eloquence of Conkling and the departed
pathos of Tom Marshall, but give us, above every-
thing else, the sweet, symmetrical statesmanship,
tne classic comeliness, and the theatrical purity
and expression of Mary Anderson’s legs.” Dan.
O'Connor I you are licked again, and by an Ink-
.,, , ,
A Brisbane theatrical manager refused to
permit a coloured man of American birth to oc-
cupy a front seat at his show the other evening,
although he held a ticket. The manager got well
out of the trouble as the dark playgoer is “a bit
of a bruiser." We had always thought Queensland
was a free country.
This yarn fits the present Sydney weather.
The beautiful Adelaide Nollson, during her educa-
tion as a factory-girl, had become mistress of a
collection of valuable expletives. She was playing
Juliet in ’Frisco. A leading lawyer became deeply
smitten, and at last managed to arrange for an
introduction. It was foggy weather. At the close
of the balcony scene the lawyer was hurried be-
hind, and as Juliet came down the ladder, she feel-
ingly observed, unaware of a stranger’s presence,
“ Oh, blast this weather, I wish my nose was tin-
lined.” The sudden and startling contrast between
the etheral Juliet of the balcony and the stage
was too great. He fled.
m • mm
From America comes the news that Selina
Dolaro is on her last legs. They were shapely
limbs, too, in the days when she ran a London
theatre in the sacred interests of burlesque, and
drove the mashers crazy. We call to mind the
plump Selina producing a travesty of “ Drink,” in
which Mr. G. W. Anson, now of Australia, played
Ooupeau and danced a breakdown in his delirium
tremens. Selina was Gervaise, and—ye gods 1—
stately Marie de Grey played the naugnty Pauline
and sang comic duets with Lantler. Times have
changed. Mr. Anson dances breakdowns no more,
Marie de Grey would faint at the notion of joining
in a march round, the once sprightly Dolaro has
hemorrhage of the lungs, and as for burlesque—it
is as dead as the dodo.
•» » m
Talking of burlesques, the Amy Horton
Company is presenting a series of old friends by
Burnand and others at the Bt. George’s Hall, Mel-
bourne. Miss Amy is “ all there ” in burlesque
business,'so is J. L. Hall, and so are not some of the
others. But horseplayand punning and abnormal
noses have been knocked out of time by Gilbert
and Sullivan and their imitators. A fair number
of baldheads look in at the St. George’s Hall to see
these revivals, however, i The front stalls are so
uncommonly close to the legs of the fair per-
formers. “ Acts and Galatea,” put on as com-
pletely as the limited stage capacity permits, is
the present bill.
*♦ * *
“ Falka,” at Melbourne Opera House, still
draws good gates. New scenery, new dresses, and
new blood—especially blood—have worked won-
ders at this establishment. More of it is coming,
too. They’ve got Armes Beaumont on their list
for the next production, “ Princess Toto.”
Speaking of the “ dead-head ” system,
which has long been in vogue at the French
theatres, a little Melbourne oracle gravely states
that, “ In the dullest times things in Melbourne
were never at such a pass as in Pans, whwe there
are at the present time no less than lOO.OtH) names
on the free-list at the various houses. Quite true.
Business would have to be uncommonly bad be-
fore the triumvirate put SO per cent, of the popu-
lation, including children in arms, on the list.
#* * #
Buckley’s Hibernicoa opened at Bathurst
on Queen’s birthnight, iK e *
Orange. Dub bo, and within the month invade
Sydney, where theyjaugmentjthe strength of the
company.... Wm. Holloway and his dramatic com-
pany visit Brisbane shortly. William has oust been
doing the Victorian provinces and playing to ple-
thoric audiences. He has several new pieces,
which he purchased while in England lately where
—alesl he did not play Romeo.. Webb and his
Marionettes will probably wend their way Western
Australiawards shortly Penman s Juveniles
are working their passage through Victoria. At
latest dates they were bulldozing Ballarat,
While N.S.W. is talking about it, Victoria
has a complete scheme to irrigate a million acres
of land.
“ Dear Bulletin,—l read that the other
day Cardinal Moran, in opening a new school at
Redfern, claimed that with the solitary exception
of Sir Isaac Newton, the greatest discoveries of
science and arts have been made either by Roman
Catholics or those educated by them.” Of course
he did. Why, certainly. As ever so many cities
claim old “ Homer dead, through which the living
Homer begged his bread;” as In Sydney to-day
you can meet troops of flatulent mudheads who
always knew Mudgee Taylor would “ give them a
doing;" so Peter’s church wants to gather a ray
or two from the aureole of science in her old age.
The True Faith wants to stand on the shoulders of
astronomy and shout to the sun: "I had a suspi-
cion that you did not rise and set as the Pagans
thought; I encouraged my children to see to it;
you owe the vindication of your character to
me "—wants to claim geography, geology, and
the rest of them, now they have grown from a
wild and weedy youth to be rather noticeable
young women; wants to cry to them "Children,
come to my arms I lam your long lost mother.
Will Cardinal Moran go further than he has gone,
and tell us that his Church was ever a kindly
parent to her scientific offspring ? Will he tel] US
that as soon as they became scientific they didn't
have to pack off, as a general thing ? Will he tell
us how much of the vast wealth of the Roman
church was set apart for the special aid of science r
In effect Cardinal Moran says that the one conser-
vative and unalterable Church is responsible, most
of all, for the keen scrutiny which philosophy has
made; into life and its environments} and Jwhlch
scrutiny looking on from object to object has at
last come to the rock on which the Church itself it
built and noted that it is not the Imperishable
granite which it was represented to be I In effect
he says that the Church which accepts the Book of
Genesis as a sufficient explanation of the world,
has encouraged her sons to search in the earth and
the seas and the stars for grander and loftier ex-
planations 1 It is over late in the day for Science
and religion to form a coalition Ministry. Science
has grown in the shadow of a monastery wall until
its huge bole begins to press against the masonry.
The living wood will not assimilate with the dead
stone-the tree is too large to he hewn down,
and the wall totters! Did the Monks dibble
in the seed, and shelter the tender shoot from
the frost of intolerance, and pray for the
rain of Reason to strengthen and nourish the
young plant? Not they I It grew in a neglected
angle, and they saw it not, till it was too big to
meddle with. They were away fasting in the re-
fectory, or, for conscience sake, being measured
for the newest thing in horsehair shlrte to fit
backs that never bore the iron cross of useful
labour. They were leading dull comfortable lives,
fed fat by the tributes of those who, in their in-
tervals of leisure from real work out in the open
world, stole timidly and in secret to where the
growing-tree was and tended it. And now that
the top of the tree is seen to be higher than the
dome of St. Peter’s the Church assumes a
"Woodman spare that tree” tone, and asserts
that science owes its life to Catholics, or
those educated by them. Even if this were
true, what of that? In days when the
Roman Catholic priesthood reserved education al-
most entirely to themselves (as they would again
do if it were possible), what wonder if the thlnkem
and reformers—the great and mighty of the
earth—came from their ranks? Granting that
Cardinal Moran’s claim be'wholly allowable, it only
u roves that there have been noble natures which
would Inot bow to the baseness of (accepting as
truths dogmatic decrees and limitations given out
by men of lower mental stature, while the chance
of analysingthem was theirs. It only proves that
the mind will not always submit to be trained just
to an allowable altitude, and kept at that, nicely
trimmed by Papal interdicts. It only proves that
a little learning is a dangerous thing for the
Church to impart to those who may afterwards
find their own way to the Pierian Spring, and with-
out permission, carry awav whole pails full#
(Continued from page 13.)
the lines. Thanks for other items K
is not a poem at all, nor is it prose. It is just this:
“ Fain would I describe to you
The scene that I witnessed last night*
Gallant Sir John, the Englishman,
Preparing to enter a light.
A fight did I say ? Ye gods,
How unequal the combat!
Valiant Sir John on one side;
On the other, a big buck rat.”
You will never be a Kendall, or a Farrell, but it Is
barely possible that in the fullness of time, you
may equal the Bard of Blatherskite,—the Dan.
O’Connor of verse, Mr. Douglas Bladen “F.
Richardson ” (Evelelgh): The first Australian
Patriotic Fund was started in 1815, when the set-
tlers here sent home a Subscription for the relief
of the widows and orphans of the soldiers who
had just fallen at Waterloo. The next subscrip*
tion raised was for the Crimean Patriotic Fund,
when more than one-tenth of the whole amount
was contributed by Australia....“H.R.L.” (Ash-
field): No. We know nothing against the moral
reputation of the member for your constituency.
....“Local Option”: Of course “too much tea w
bad for a person.” Any other stupid question you
would like to ask?....“Asmodeus”: Clever, but
not suitable for publication...." W.P.8.”: Your
initials indicate the situation of your lyric....
“ A Cynic”: Very good, but of no value without
the original, and we could not give space to both.
Try something better known...."W.M.” (Bed-
fern): State definitely what your trouble is. Did
they wilfully mislead you, or 1s it that matters are
in arrear? “Enquirer”: Not knowing, can’t
say... “Loyalty”: Your ode to the Queen Is
hardly worthy of its subject. You write :
“ Oh, progeny of a mighty race,
Kindness and piety stamped upon thy lace;
Oh, mighty Queen, thy fame is such
That men or Muse can’t praise too much.
India’s Empress, peerless Queen,
Thou hast a woman’s grace with monarchs mien;
Oh, lend thy ear to a humble poet’s lay,
Who prays you may live for many a day.”
You ask our opinion of the poem. It Is not a poem
at all. It is simply unadulterated and unmitigated
bosh.. .“ W. Waterton”: Your “sentiment” Isas
cold as the attitude of the S.M. Herald on the
occasion of the death of their general manager....
“A. Watson ” (Cloncutry): Our idea would be not
merely to poll-tax Chinamen—for the poll-tax is
an impost often evaded—but also to put say a
£5O or £lOO tax on every Chinaman leaving the
colony: likewise a stiff duty, reaching up to say
about £2O per skeleton, on every box of Chinese
bones exported from Australia to the Flowery
Land. If we imposed a hot export tax on Mon-
golians, we’d annex a little bit of the coin they
ordinarily bag and take away from this country,
in which they snow pay no taxes to speak of. You
had better pu this idea before Thadeus O’Kane....
“Wilhelm Meister”: Cowardice is the badge of
most colonial newspapers and of most colonial
public men “M.W.”: The statement that
350,000 Russian troops have been massed In the
Crimea is probably a 1ie...." R.J.”: Take our ad-
vice and put not one shilling either upon Mb
Hanlan or Mr. Beach “8.D.” (Townsville):
Excellent. Held over for illustration...." G.W.H.”:
Thanks...." New Chum”: Thanks.


Mr. R. M. Vaughn, M.P. for Grenfell, has
always posed as a Protectionist. Old Jack
Robertson made a Minister of this nonentity, who
has ever since been so Inflated that he thinks he
ought always be sitting on the Treasury benches.
He want to get the Jennings Administration out
so as he may get In, and has taken sides with the
Freetrade-cumParkes’ faction. Mr. Vaughn voted
against the Protectionist proposals of the Govern-
ment last week on very thin pretext that 5 per cent.
ad valorem was not high enough! We h )pe the Pro-
tectionists of Grenfell will do their diPy with re
spect to this political frost.
A Northern working-miner sends us
the following epitome of news from the Rock-
hampton district:—“ Owing to the poverty of the
present shareholders in the celebrated Jumbo Co.,
tne Warden has decided to grant them further ex-
tended ground—viz ,lo square miles per man. . ,
. Rumoured that the Goldfields Act is repealed in
this district, and that in future the law will be
cribbed as required! . . . The Block and Billet
Co. have applied for six months’ exemption on
the grounds that the recent rain had caused
an influx of nearly two gallons of water
Into the shaft; and a'si that a gohanner
had fallen into it, drank all the water, and
died The elliavium irom the carcase prevents
the men from working.... The Great; Gone Bung
Sah Co, apply for two years’ exemption from
work on the grounds that the tunnel has now been
driven further than the muck cun be slung with a
long-handled shovel; and that they wish to reorga-
nise the company and procure funds to got a truck
orwheelb irrow. . . . The Turnip Extended re-
port heavy indications of—mullock. . . . The
Anna Mrria directors consider that, if sbareholdr rs
continue to buck in with cabs, there may ulti-
mately be obtained sulllcitut gold to make a medal
for tbe manager. . . . The only other item
worth recording Is that the Goldfields Act has been
repealed In the Rockhampton district, 'which has
gone in for mining Home Rule- wholesale ex-
emption from labour elkuss, and unlimited ared is
the rule; bona fide work and 50ft. per man the
exception.” • - L
PEPPER AND SALT .
“ The Prince of Wales, in his address on
the occasion of the opening of the Colonial Exhi-
bition, stated that he endeavoured to follow in the
footsteps of the late Prince Consort ‘ at however
great a distance.’ 8.M, Herald.
Here’s an ad. from the Argus “ Received
Wednesdays. Thanks for your confidence and
trust, which will never be belied. Parson lies
Love. ‘Silvertop.’” Poor “Silvertop”! The truth
of his protest will be apparent to everyone, but we
guess the parson will prevail In the long run.
Heighol Will somebody kindly play a suitable
accompaniment on the office-comb —
Speaking of a man who dropped dead in
Glen Innes, the local Examiner cheerily says:-
“ Deceased could speak several languages, was a
quiet, Inoffensive, jolly fellow, and is, we believe,
well-connected down below.” Happy man I -
“ No need to fear the burning lake,
The brimstone flames or glow—
They’ll cool things down for him-he’s “ well-
Conneoted dowi belaw.”
But we, whose friends are up above,
Hell’s fiercest blasts must know—
Poor friendless souls I wo are not “ well-
Connected down below.”
• ♦
The English papers seem to have been
deluged with letters about kissing games and
cancans at Sunday-school picnics and temperance
socials. The cross-grained old parson who “let
on ” these harmless dissipations In the Christian
Million has been generally sat upon. He said
they were indecent. But one enthusiastic ab-
stainer writes that kissing-games have been the
leading feature of these orgies for the last 40
years, a"d that their abolition would “sound the
knell of temperance associations.” The Bul-
letin is inclined to fancy this gentleman has a
firm grip of the subject—
“ The Queen Regent Marie Christine, the
widow of the late King Alfonso XII., has given
birth to a son, who becomes King of Spain.”
(Reuter).
FAR AHEAD.
And you tell us, Albert Edward, In your modest
neat address
That you strive to struggle onward in the path of
righteousness;
Though your royal nature’s human, like the rest
of humankind, »
In the footsteps of your father still you struggle
far behind.
You tell us that your parent (who, like Brown, is
gone before)
In the exhibition business first threw open wide the
door.
And you're striving and you're tolling (are you
ever short of wind ?)
Btlll the world and its temptations keep you ever
far behind.
You don’t tell us, Albert Edward, when you hope
our shores to see,
Or give a chance at spouting to the “ jaynil ” Dan.
O’C ;
You do not mention Heaton—was he even in your
mind?
No! your thoughts are of the distancs which
you’re lagging far behind.
Ohl cheer up, Albert Edward, and avoid the fatty
food,
Just pull down your weight to level—on your
troubles do not brood;
Leave the doctors-come to Sydney—what you eat
then never mind,
When you meet Fonetlck Francis for a feed you'll
feel inclined.
There are monarchs gone before you whom you
strove to follow too,
Though they couldn’t loose the latchet of your
patent-leather shoe:
Albert Edward, you were dreaming; you were
wrong in what you said—
In all princely types and actions you have galloped
far ahead. # #
WHY CERTAINLY.
The parson lies I O luckless youth I
We sympathise with your distress,
But fear this statement of the truth
Will hardly bring about redress
Of any wrong ’neath which you groan;
In vain you advertise your wrath—
A layman’s ravings, be it known,
Have little chance against the “ cloth.”
The parson lies. It is his trade -
Prevarication Is bis line,
And very soon the simple maid
Will take his word Instead of thine.
She gazes meekly In his face
And swallows all he has to say.
Throw up the sponge, for ’tls a case—
He’s there and you are far away.
Ay, ere another month has flown
They’ll plight in honey-words their troth
And you’ll, alas I be left alone
To curse the perfidy of both.
But mind, adopt his game—
In out a dash;
He lied—you learn to do the same,
- And travel someone else’s mash.
* * *
THE FATS OP FOGGAN.
“ The Rev. Mr, Foggan, Methodist minister,
was fined £10 with costs, this morning In Charters
Towers Police Court, for having held a Salvation
Army meeting in the street.”
Alas I alasl why was not he
Content to jog on
The good old path where grub Is free ? -
Deluded Foggan I
Bid he find want of Joyful nolse-^
A serious clog on
His “ work ” and seek to fetch the boys ?-
Unhappy Foggan I—
With earthquakes roused from brazen throats ?
Or did he slog on
The drum—or wake the foghorn notes ?
Uproarious Foggan ?
Did he by such moans hope to draw
Each thief and rogue on
To listen to the Heavenly Law ?
Misguided Foggan I
Let the Salvation bagpipes sound
A hurried slogan,
Let all Booth’s warriors rally round
The martyr, Foggan I
They’ve been and took from him ten “ quid 1”
We’d “ sick ” our dog on—
If we’d a dog—the beaks who did
That same to Foggan I
THE TEE TOTALLER'S STORY.
“ Surprised, Bill, do yer say, to see
Me look so prim and smart ?
I’m changed from what I used to be ?
Well rdther, bless yer ’art!
There sin’t no bashes in my ’at.
No beer-stains on mylcoat;
I’ve seen the silliness o’.tbat—
I’m what you'd call a ‘ tote.’ ”
“ Yes, signed the p’edge with Mr. Booth;
It tried me just at first,
But now I works on nice and smooth
And never feels no thirst;
I’ve broke with all my boosy chuxs,
They’re welcome to their charf—
I guess as when the reck’nln’ comes
It’s me as gets the larf.”
“ It happened, Bill, in this ’ore way—
Jim Croaker (that’s my pal.)
Got telling me some yarns one day
’Bout a temp’rance soshi-al;
He said as if I only knew
How ’ot them ll ire-ups war,
I’d sport the little bit o’ blue,
And never drink no more.”
“ I grinned, 'o course, I never thort
The time ’ud ever come,
As I’d be one o’ Croaker’s sort
An’ go right orf my rum.
But when he whispered in my ear
Of kissin’ games and such,
Says I, ‘ that's better biz than beer ’—
An’ so it is. Bill, much.”
“ Old Jim persuaded me to take
The pledge that very night,
And O! I’ve found the temp’rance fake
One dream o’ calm delight;
Them covts wot thinks us totes, is slow.
And can’t enjoy a lark,
Lord love yer, Bill, they just don’t know—
We keeps our gambols dark.”
“ Yer know I’m not a bloomin’ chump,
And I’ve let lotion rip;l
This ’ere game’s better—yes, a lump—
You take my friendly tip;
We’ve seshial evenlns once a week
And I can toll yer this,
The gals as seem go mild and meek
Is yummy yum to kiss.”
“ ‘ The Army,’ that’s a game we play—
It means a-marchin’ round
And kissin’ lots o’ different ways
Yer’d like it, I’ll be bound;
We often has a temp’rance dance,
A sort of a quad-rille—
They jump about a bit in France,
But our ‘tarts ’ beats ’em, Bill.”
“So when a chap calls temp’rance ‘rot,’
You tell ’em he’s a ass;
It’s jam—and Bill, I’ll tell yer wot,
It saves a heap o’ brass.
Ta, ta, old man, it’s getting late—
A w hisky ? Not for me,
We’ve got a soshial on at eight,
With kissin’ games and tea.”
Born a King I with spoon of gold
Bstween his little lips so flabby—
A monarch of one minute old,
Ohl happy highly-favoured babby,
Who, ere he learns to make reply,
Is greeted as “ Your Majesty.”
Born a King, and day by day,
Toadied to, should it surprise ’em,
If, when years have rolled away,
The stripling learneth to despise ’em,
Regarding as an unclean thing
The mob that yells ‘ ‘God save tho King 1 ”
Born a King 1 to wear a crown
Upon that little hairless noddle,
With courtiers trembbng at his frown
As soon as he can fairly toddle—
Thank God the day is drawing nigh
When worth shall upset Majesty.
PECCAVI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By tho fire colls Black Peter dead drunk, and close
handy
Lies a bottle, now empty, that not long ago
Was half-full of the stuff that is vended as brandy
In the bush. I and Peter, you might as well
know,
Are two drovers. l l he part that we play in Life’s
battle
Is somewhat ignoble, and not too well paid;
To make money we herd through wild bush the
wild cattle
And “ booze ” it like brothers as soon as it’s
made.
And to-night, while the bullocks were down at the
water,
Poor Peter and I rode to Weatherby’s hut,
Where they “have it,” and Q inger, old Weatherby’s
daughter,
Fetched the tanglefoot out of her bedroom and
put
It, and pannikins each, down before us, I often
Drink hard as the devil, but somehow to-day
I didn’t. I just took a spoonful to soften
My cracked lips, and chucked the remainder
away.
Perhaps for me Ginger became a good fairy—
Perhaps, who shall say ? For she isn't the worst
After all, and some hint of my dead sister Mary
Came with her, as, bearing the liquor accurst
That so many good fellows has murdered or mad-
dened,
She entered the room. This I’m certain of—l,
Prom that moment, felt sensibly sobered and sad-
dened,
And spilled out the stuff without well knowing
whr.
All my life it was thus:—Given a knowing young
woman,
A 11 shanty,” and I, with a tidy-sized cheque,
I would enter and carry on something uncommon
And leave it as poor as his Highness of Teck;
I would “ shout ” for a riff raff of bar-loafers idle.
The worst of bush-swipers, degraded and low,
And, full oft at the finish, horse, saddle, and
bridle,
And even my coat for a bottle would go I
Yes I To-night I fought shy of it just for a
wonder,
But Peter went in with a will and drank deep—
What's up no w ? The poor devil’s awake I No—
by thunder,
He’s yabberlng some sort of stuff in his sleep!
How he s shaking all over I He writhes as he
utters
Some words of bad English—words taught in the
school
Where white bushmen are teachers. The sentence
he mutters
Is “Bral gammon, white fellow one b —-y
fool.”
Just what ran in my own mind, unhappy Black
Peter,
And you, in your drunken sleep, I must admit,
Have asserted a fact in a sentence completer
Than Carlyle yet framed with his words and his
wit,
Why you think so at present I may not discover.
I will not awake you; sleep on for a bit—
In the morning you’ll find all the pleasure is over,
The black bottle empty, the head fit to split!
As Ive found in the past—as I’ll find In the future
Most likely—his after life who can foretell ?
As Lord Tennyson says, it you’d wisdom to suit
your
Mere knowledge; beyond a doubt alllmightbe
well,
But who has, let me ask ? Is there one of the
preachers;
One of all the great founders of systems and
creeds;
One, save Christ, of all those we’ve accepted as
teachers
Who doesn’t show better in words than In
deeds ?
We have hierarchs stately, with presence made
awful
By ancient environments set on a throne,
Who hold converse with God, and declare what is
lawful
Or not, but make His will look much like their
own.
We have zealots in plenty who hasten to tell us
Of the dangers and pitfalls and manifold ills
That waylay us. We find they’ve been also as
zealous
At piling up gold when they’ve once made their
wills I
We have honey-tongued parsons whose eloquent
power
Brings in coin to the plate till the plate over-
flows-
Coin that seldom is given affliction to dower,
Or to cheer a dark life drawing to a dark close;
We have troops of disciples who follow that
Leader,
Whose life was one long pang of love to man-
kind,
Who, three times a day, dine at fair tables of
cedar,
Caring not for wan thousands who never have
dined.
We have impudent humbugs of every persuasion,
Who, preaching of Him who once preached on
the Mount,
Live through hypocrite lives, and, with pious
evasion.
Leave the losers to pay up their living account!
Pharisaic impostors, bewildering In Latin,
Or sickening in Cockney, whose one golden rule
Is to fatten in ease, and whose th ought as they
fatten
Is ‘‘Baal gammon, white fellow one b —y
fool.”
It is probable, Peter, my boy, that the reason
You made that short speech is that now in your
train
You can feel the fierce drink of the whites making
. treason,
And, by some psychic means that I cannot
explain,
Your dry tongue has protested against what your
mind is
Unable to formulate, and, though your will
Was asleep and your being as torpid and blind as
An oyster's, that tongue could no longer be still.
You, black plaintiff, unknowing, have filed an in-
dictment,
To which as defendant I’m called on to plead,
And, assuming that you, in the plaint, the word
“ white ’’ m«ant
To be held to mean ‘‘ civilised,” I will proceed;
On behalf of myself and some millions of Aryans,
tfo admit that your charge is wall foundoi,
and go
On my knees with my brethren, who are without
variance
Just the thing you have Slid, and have always
been so.
I will go even further, and make fail confession
Of all our mad pranks—l will fully report
Every folly, absurdity, evil transgression.
Begging but to be leniently judged by the Court,
For I never before felt as tittle as 1 do
At this hour as I sit by the smouldering logs,
Watched suspiciously by my old cattle dog. Fido,
Who is simply the best and most cunning of
dogs—
Fldo certainly knows there la something abnormal
About my condition to-night. When I went
With Black Peter to Weatherby’s he guessed a
formal
And well-thought out spree was my settled
intent.
He can understand Peter all right, but the
glance he
Gives at me now and then is reproachful and sad,
Just as though he would say, “ ’Tis the only good
chance ho
Has ever yet missed I Can my master be mad ? ”
Yes I I can be, old doggie, I have been, I will be;
Over all of our destinies rules a dull Guelph,
Man has been In the past what he is, and will
still be,
A blind slave of his fate—which is mostly him-
self;
’Tis in vain that the best of us labour to map in
Our youth a life chart made by strict line and
rule;
Oft our cry, if the things we have most prayed for
happen,
Is "Baal gammon, white fellow one b—y
fool."
What a game we've played, anyhow, from the
beginning!
What a pitiful bungle we’ve made of this life!
What a fatal facility Eve had for sinning!
What a shame that poor Adam should have such
a wife!
If she had not gone straight, with her mouth full
of apple,
And fetched the old man out to have a repast
From the same tree, her children had not had to
grapple
With sorrow and sin while creation shall last!
If she’d only declared to that skunk of a Satan,
That fresh fruit disagreed with her all would
have gone
So much better for us; but it’s now rather late in
The day to abuse her. Poor sou', she was one
Who had fine opportunities given her and
wasted—
But who has not had also? I'll not throw a
brick
At your grave, poor old mother! I, too, would
have tasted
That apple—and taken all risks of Old Nick!
Would it please you to know—if you could know,
dear madam,
Or would such a knowledge instead give you
pain ?
That your children show far less resemblance to
Adam
Than to you and your club-swinging eldest son
Cain!
Would it please you to kno v that we’ve all your
old craving
For apples forbidden—that though we believe
We have souls that are pr'celess, and well worth
the saving
We still swap them for apples like grandmother
Eve ?
Yes I we still for our apples unceasingly hanker.
We’ve some into this world apple-marked from
our birth,
Pries•■, philosopher, statesman, sage, soldier, and
banker,
All alike strongly yearn for the apples of earth;
Where’s the soldier, whose apple is wrapped up in
laurels,
Who would not, to win it, rush straight off td
slay
Men be never had heard of, whose own angry
quarrels
Could never come near him? What
Ipn*y
Who, with diligent power, arranges and audits
His country’s affairs, blessed and loved by a
State—
For his country cares more than for clamorous
plaudits
From those who don’t really know why he is
great ?
Where’s the parson who loves not those apples the
Adder
Left us lame Atalantas to run for ? Where’s he
Wno has never once used his Lord’s Cross as a
ladder
To secure a fsw pippins of gold from the tree ?
Aye! our right of reversion to infinite treasure,
Wo all sell to the Devil—and sell it too cheap;
All we get for our souls is an apple of pleasure,
Which is lovely to look on, but—ah J—will not
keep!
Overhead is the Crown; at our feet the crown-
pieces,
And we gather in these, but heed not the bright
And our thought, very oft, when we’ve gathered
in these, is
This: "Baal gammon, white fellow one b —y
fool.”
Hullo, Fido, old boy, you start up! What’s the
matter?
Has your ear caught a sound borne upon iho soft
breeze
That you never could stand—the contemptuous
chatter
Of ’possums who room you from tops of high
trees ?
There—lie down, lad, lie down! I’m aware you
Inherit
Quite a hatred for furred things-you’ve shown
it for years;
You think worrying oats is your principal merit,
Although I think it’s certainly bringing in steers
Well, I’ll fill up once more my old black pipe and
light it-
After that I'll turn in. What I—a ring round the
moon I
By the look of the clouds and the feel of the night,
it
Means raining like thunder, I guess, pretty soon.
Well, what matter for that? If it makes me rheu-
matic
It will still mean good water and plenty of grass
For the stock! I nave mused in the vein or the
Attic
Long enough for to-night. I admit I’m an ass.
I admit that myself and my brethren arc asses
Many, asses of burthen—some, asses who drive
Other asies before them and call thorn “the
masses,”
But not one among them worth keeping alive.
If _lh9 wnole race of Christians were buried to •
morrow
I would write it an epitaph—not of the school
Wnloh proclaims dead mens virtue and living
men's sorrow—
Simply: "Baal gammon, white fellow one b —7
fool!”
J. FARRELL.
Quoanboyan, May 15th.


BRIEF MENTION.
AdVfc. from D.N. Argus:— “ Wanted a
second-hand horse. Apply, j. 8.”
De Witt Talmage, preaching on “ Hell,”
Pictured It as having four doors of admission for
four great classes of sinners. Next mbrnlng a
f
The Rival Fish-Fags.
PARKED (loq.): “YAH, YOU SCUM, I’M THE ONE SHOULD CARRY THAT BASKET. PUT IT DOWN!”
JENNINGS: “ YOU, YOU-”
OLD JACK: “GO IT!-I'M WAITING.”
N.Y. paper said: “ We hope the doors are arranged
to open outward In case of Orel”
The B.M. Herald has conferred one eon’
flplouous benefit on the community. It refuses to
print funeral verses It fears open competition
with the gloom ot Its other matter.
At Echuca (V.c.j a man was awakened
from slumber by a dog gnawing away at his-knee,
-and then perceived that the bedroom was on fire,
The faithful quadruped had realised the situation
earlier, and determined to die with a bone in his
mouth.
The Bourke Telegraph has had to make
some remarks “in justice to our excellent bell-
man.” We shall expect now that in all remarks
on municipal; matters there will be a prior Con-
sultation with our profoundly strategic pound-
keeper.
We haYe always understood that the
choicest reading in the Sydney Evening NookE is
to be fpund in its advertisement columns, but we
were hardly prepared for such a shriek as this:-
“Comfortable lodgings free, respectable young
woman- fof company at night. —- street,
Blanktown.”
A Writer In the Sydney Express. (R O.)
says that in 999 Irish oases out of 1000 It, will be
found that the reason why Irishmen take so to
whisky is “through sorrow begotten of hideous
oppression.” And having read so far we feel also
a sort of sorrow begotten of hideous oppression,
and shall step over the way anl drop a tear for
Brin.
The Rockhampton Argus is indignant be-
cause its local subscribers are only buried 4 t. 6!n.
deep Instead of flft, like other people. As Rock-
hampton is about the farthest known town from
Heaven, we think this a distinct concession to the
Capricornian dead. Eighteen inches less of earth
to work through will be a big handicap when the
(Inal roll-call Is sounded.
From our file of <he Rockhampton Abcujs
we observe that death is still busy with the old
identities there. Ah, well, wo can’t live for ever,
oven in Kockhampton. The item referring to the
mournful event will be read with regret by many
old Rockhampton men, and callup memories of
the past. It reads: “Yesterday Mr. T. M. Black
lost a valuable hearse-horse through an acute at-
tack of gripes.”
We now take up our pen to write you
these few lines, in proof that It Is not mere pre-
judice or democratic spite that leads us to quilt
royal persons. We will gay a good word for a king
if he deserve it. For instance. The present
monarch of Spain has our earnest admiration and
reverence—his pure life, his innocence, his gentle
winning ways, and his pleasant condescension
withal, command our respect and love. He will be
fortnight old next Tuesday.
An Auckland man went out for a sail, and
getting sea-sick parted company with a tine sot of
teeth A Maori Asherman sometime alturwards
caught a big schapper, and-would you believe it?
—the enterprising Ash had a false set of teeth in its
mouth as well-plautod as if a clever sea denti&t


had riveted them In. They were subsequently
identified as those lost by tho Aucklander, but the
Maori refused to part with them, and got them
fastened In his own “ mug.” The question now Is
Whose teeth will these be at the Final Settling Up ?
Mayor Jenkins, of North Shore, assured
Lord Carington that that district was loyal to the
Queen, and the Governor remarked to somebody
that the Empire, thank Heaven, was at last safe.
In a Queensland paper a clergyman makes
a pathetic appeal to the inhabitants of Cooktown
for V any left-off goats they may have,” to take to
the Cape Bedford mission station with him for the
use of the “pore” benighted heathen ;
Now here's an example that may be of service
To lots of our coin-hunting logs In black coats—
At the General Judgment they’ll not feel as
nervous, . ..
If on earth they have frequently crone with the
goats!
“ Her Majesty and Princess Beatrice have
Inspected in the Colonial Exhibition the portraits
of the Australian Contingent to the Soudan and
She portrait of Mr. Dailey.” She also admired
Ir. BOsisto’s collection of oils," and then, gloria
in excelsis, “Sir Saul Samuel, who was also pre-
sent. admired ” something or other. These and
Similar astounding items reached us by cable on
the Queen’s Birthday in a half-column of the
S M.H. Long live the Queen 1 Long live Boslsto 1
Long live Sir Samuel! Long live everybody, in
fact I
Bismarck has traced the somewhat exces-
sive death-rate of Berlin to its proper source-
doctors. There are about 7000 of these deadly pro-
fessionals practising in the German capital, half of
them on American diplomas. These are to be pro-
secuted. Meanwhile the man of blood and Iron
will keep his eye on the other half and watch the
mortality-tables. The Bismarokian policy might
be introduced into the management of the Mel-
bourne Hospital, where every incomer stands a
5 to 1 chance of going out again in his wooden
ulster. Something ought to be done to extend the
odds.
Some banks employ detectives to watch
their clerks’ doings after office-hours. The eyes
of the directors being opened by the wave of de-
falcating crime that has swept over the colonies,
carrying away on its billows many of the choicest
flowers of the Sunday school, churches, and
adolescent societies; they have ordered their spies
to relax the watch on billiard-rooms, cafes, and
other houses frequented by young men in order
to concentrate their vigilance on the Young Men’s
Pious Association and kindred Institutions.
Officials, who distribute tracts or ostentatiously
place hymn-books in their desks, will be carefully
shadowed.
The Hairdressers’ Society of Newcastle
held a shampoo last week to decide on a celebra-
tion for June 1. Mr. T. G. King handled the strop
of chairman, and a bald discussion ensued as to a
programme. A wet towel was thrown on the pro-
ceedings by a member noted for hair-splitting,
who objected to the date proposed—it was so close
to the 3tth May that people would not care to go
into the thing bald-headed and would not be able
to part. This caused a bit of a brush, and after
several members had worked themselves up, and
bearded one another to the full top of their
lather, just ’Jvhen they were within a close shave
of settling the matter, a member rhaired himself
up-[John Cash Neild, what has this peaceful
country done to you ?-En. B.]
The chief attraction of Point Nepean
(Vic./Is its beautiful collection of Chinese lepers.
Long standing residents of the district have,
hlth rto, pointed out these interesting curios to
their visitors with a pride bordering upon pom-
posity, but of late a coolness has sprung up
between the people of the Point and the Celestial
recluses. Point Nepean now complains to the
Central Board of Health at Melbourne that the
lepers are getting “ fat and sauoy.” Now obesity
and cheek are most derogatory and unbecoming
in a leper. The leper who hopes to obtain our pity
must be submissive and lean, especially lean. We
sympathise with the complainants, and advise that
the afflicted Chows be limited to the thin of a chop
and a chunk of brown bread.
The Frenchwoman who lately fought a
duel now wishes to he experimented on by the
Swedish doctor who says he can freeze people up
for an indefinite t'me and then thaw them to life
aghin. We can see millions in this idea Speaker
Barton will now be able to ice-spray D. O'Connor
afid A. G. Taylor to rigidity when they are in
the full blast of their eloquence-arms shingle-
spllttltig in the air, coat-tails flapped aloft, and
mouths wide open, and let ’em stay stiff as Lot’s
wife till they’re wanted at the Centennial. The
Kyardlqal and Bishop Barry will be in a position
to' turn a jet on to a congregation as they are
dropping the coin into the box, and walk quietly
round to see how many of the wealthy sinners
" hold a thioepenny bit or a tintag betwixt their
frozen thumb and forefinger I
The following appears as an advertisement
In the Bathurst (N S W.) Times, the sagacious
editor whereof had apparently declined to publish
it a& a free “ ad.” in the correspondence column:
—“Thanksgiving for rain.—(To. the Editor of the
Bathurst Daily Times ) Sir,—l have been hoping
that there would be a day of general thankf giving
to Almighty God for the welcome rain. In that I
would have gladly joined. But I feel as though I
must, for myself, recognise the goodness of God ill
tuts matter. I therefore Intend to close my estab-
lishment during the whole of Thursday next, ihe
19th instant. I am sorry that suqh a recognition
6E the Divine fnrrcyls not to be general, not only
in Bathurst, but throughout the colony.—With
great respect, yours. &0.,,Th05. . Rus-
B all-street, May Uth, 1886." Let us see, what was
it we read once upon a time commencing with
__it Now, two men went up into the Temple to
nray ? ■*' How flattered the Great Architect must
feel at Mr. Blank’s compliment I
The Haw Courts in Melbourne are, archi-
tecturally. somewhat awe-inspiring, even to the
ordihary visitor who Is unconscious of having
done anything to bring down upon him the wrath
of fch'6 majestic female who holds the sword and
scales. But nothing Is Sacred to n Chinaman.
The other day, when an important case was being
dlsomsad ini the Banco Court, an enternrlsing
John put his head in at the door, and offered a
get of feather dusters for sail “ welly cheap.” Not
receiving any .reply, and concluding that there
was ho business to be done there, ha biokod out
alnwlv. and was promptly ssaisted down tho cor-
ridor by a constable of JUrabo build. Lots of
hedple laughed at this occurrence, but what ooul 1
they say if they saw a Chinaman in a wig sitting
oh the Judge s seat? Yotthls may happen if the
Mongol raie continues pouring into Australia.
It would pleaee us for one to see It. We think if
"there Is anything that would reconcile us to being
hanged, it would be to have a Chinese Judge
condemn us and watch him putting on the black
cap. We believe this sight would keep us laugh-
ing all the way to Hades.
Another wild beast is tearing round in
Victoria, seeking whom he may digest. At Nhill,
a boar, which was once a docile domestic animal,
fond of home, and with no yearnings, apparently*
for anything but garbage and calrs repcfsO, has
alarmed the good ppoplp of tno district by su<i-
deifly displaying a ontpmptqnus di regard for
Paw and order. Efe has fi id from the home of his
ancestors sharpened tushs* and turned bush-
ranger. His delight now is in meandering
about frightening the qhesry content out of the
oldest IJviflg resident . and fflliig mothers of
young families wl h misgiving and unrest. Hi is
cunning enough, this nig. to earn a good living
pe Idling trace Ha prowls romd a Homestead
r > iting up th) landed (State, and lo iking
lust- an ordinary Kind of boar, till someone comes
out to hunt him then he makes his bac c into a
hump and endangers the ll r e of that p rson.
8 nee he took ti tb9 rqit'B severs,! old pioneers
have discovered that they qw climb fences with
paebest narrow chested, one-lunged, debilitated
o albnlal in the land, and they boast of the superio_
rlty of theimported man. Some youpg men went
out with guns and scythes, and hay-kniyes to k 11
the brute the other day. They found him after a
long search, and then with one accord all went up
a tree, and stayed there till the pig got out of
harm’s way. They couldn’t find it in their heart s
to hurt the poor dumb beast.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Good weather and the promise of excellent
racing brought a large attendance together at
Randwiak on Queen’s birthday, The first event
was watched with great Intereat on account of a
bet of £lOOO to £BOO about Maokay and Fuse, but
a collision at the start put Fuse out of It, and his
owner out of the £BOO. The winner turned up in
Maekay, with Corday second. The Hurdle Race
fell to Raven, who finished three lengths ahead of
Commodore; the Sovereign Stakes were appro-
priated by Bonnie Queen, who only just managed
to get home a short nose in front of Ellington;
the Queen’s Birthday Cup resulted In a grand
race, All Gold winning by half a head from Cor-
day; the Steeplechase was a comparatively easy
victory for Studley, with Kangaroo in the second
place. The day’s sport finished with the Ladles’
Prize, the numbers going up for Rifleman and
Balmoral in the order named.
• ♦ •
The Sydney Grammar School sports on
Saturday last at the Association Ground brought
together about 3500 spectators who appeared to
thoroughly enjoy a good afternoon’s sport.
• « *
The Melbourne Junior Football Associa-
tion has adopted a rule giving the association
power to alter the decision of an umpire. There
can be little doubt as to the folly of such a rule;
hardly a decision will be given which will not be
disputed, especially at such a game as football. It
Is not likely that any man of spirit or honesty
would accept the post of umpire under such cir-
cumstances.
♦ ♦ Wi *
As usual, Saturday evening saw an over-
flowing house at Foley’s Athletic Hall, the main
attraction being a contest between Jackson and
Pablo Frank for £35, the former undertaking to
knock out his opponent in four rounds, but to the
surprise of most present, Pablo made a first-rate
show and turned up winner. Pablo is a very
dodgy sort of boxer, and accordingly very hard to
knock out In a given time. Fogarty and Brinsley
were matched to a finish, said finish occurring at
the second hit, which Brinsley received on the
WASHED IN THE FOUNT!-“AFTER YOU WITH THE ANKERCHER, ’ARRY!"
Mr. J. R. Clarke complains, in a letter to the S.M. HERALD, that the drinking-
fountains in the Domain, and elsewhere, now serve regularly every morning as lava-
tories for dead-beats.
jw. Dooley and Fogarty then came on, but the
latter had to turn-up In the second round as he
was unwell. Tne two Fullers had a couple of
lively sets-to with Burgess and a friend, the
brothers having the best of each affair. Foley and
a gentleman amateur had a couple of light rounds,
whlcn brought the entertainment to a close.
* • •
The Sydney Bioyoje Club sports at Botany
on Saturday were not a grand success, as only
about 400 visitors put In an appearance. Some of
the finishes were very exalting.
« ■ •
When the N.S.W. football team went
down to Melbourne to try conclusions with the
Cabbage Garden representatives It was the unani-
mous opialon over htre that they wou'd not bring
back the spoils of victory, and the result of tbs
match played on Saturday, when Victoria scored
eight goals to N.S.W. three, shows that our cham-
pions were not underrated.
♦ ♦ 3
The Glebe second Qwerty met Richmond
Football Club on the latter’s ground on Queen’s
birthday afternoon, the visitors being victorious
with three polats to spare. The respective scores
were; R’chmond, 8 p dots; Glebe, 11 points. The
game, according to a correspondent, “was any-
thing but a pleasant one, owing to the rough play
of the local team, who were a set of big, strapping
I fellows. The visitors, on the contrary, were a
mere lot of school-boys, and were, to put the mat-
ter mildly, handled In a brutal manner; they had to
discontinue pDy a quarter of an t our before time,
lest a fatal casualty might take place,’’
♦ * *
Mr. Oxenham won £ll,OOO or so by Mac-
kay'p victor? in the Royal Stakes at the A.J.C
meeting on Queen’s birthday. Now, Indeed, has the
name of Oxenham grown famous in the land. But
steady, Humphrey, steady. Remember the old
adage: “ ’Tls pace that kills.”
* • *
Pedestrianiam does not appear to take in
Leichhardt as well as typhoid fever. If one may
judge by the disgraceful proceedings that pre-
dominated during the running off of a handicap
of 150 yards on Saturday last. During one of the
beats two contestants had a little difference, which
was of such immediate character that they stopped
running and had it out with bare fists. After the
*' final ” numerous disputes arose, and the Mftces
and Foleys displayed their knowledge In’ the
punching line. t - ■
» > * * 4. ' ■
At the end of each cricket season. the
treasurers of most of the Sydney clubs have a long
list of defaulters to show. It would be a very
wise and effectual remedy for this mean kind of
action on the part of those players, who do the
round of the clubs without paying thelf sub-
scription to any, if the whole of the clubs would
pass a rule refusing to have a player in their olbb
or meet one in another team who has not paid ha
last year’s indebtedness. ..
* * * ,C : ,
Most of the members belonging to the
Junior Cricket Association are of opinion that the
term junior is hardly appropriate, and they Intend
to try and get the name altered next season. If
we might be allowed to suggest the new title, we
would say that the Pot-hunters’ Association would
truthfully oonyey an idea as to the objects of the
players who play for these junior cups.
The result of the Belvidere v. Warwick
encounter for the Trustees’ Cup is a nasty jar for
the latter club. Their energetic hon. sec. had
already made up his mind as to how the £25 cheque
was to be laid out,
** * *
At the Hutt (N.Z.) Easter races a small
boy accosted the secretary,'hnd piped a request to
have his sister’s name enterpdffor the girls’ race.
•• We have no girls’ race here,” bald the secretary.
“ Oh, yes, you have, sir,” said the mite; “the card
says you have a maiden race, and I’m sure if Sissy
starts, she’ll come In a winner.’.’ The secretary’s
horse-laugh shook the grand stand and threatened
to spoil the weather as be explained to the be-
wildered boy the nature of his mistake.
* * *
Mr. Murray, a lengthy Australian, who
stands 6ft. 3in., and weighs near upon list., and
who Is pretty well-known in English boxing
circles, competed this year for the heavy-weight
championship, but was beaten by Diamond, a
little man of sft. Sin., who worked all round him
and won with something in hand. We wonder
what has become of Mr. Somerset, Larry Foley’s
hard-hitting old pupil, who won the English
heavy-weight championship a year or two ago ?
• • •
Garrett’s success in the opening match of
the Australian Eleven only boars out the high
opinion of his bowling which most of the Eagll«h
players have already entertained. Several mem-
bers of Ivo Bligh’s team declared that they feared
Garrett more than any other of our bowlers, not
even excepting Spoff. Evans, on the other band,
they considered an overrated man. However, the
renowned Ted doesn’t appear to have tried bis
hand at Sheffield Park, but before the season is
over, be will prove that he hasn’t been rated at
more than his usual value. He seems to have
given a taste of his quality in the Surrey match.
• * *
Profesaor Miller has thumped his last
thump as a professional athlete, and retaken his
old gymnasium in Melbourne, where he will devote
the whole of his time to teaching young amateurs.
♦ * ♦
The heaviest men in the Oxford crew were
H. M'Lean, D. H. M‘Lean,l3st.oH b.
In .the Cambridge, 8. Falrbalrn, (of Geelong),
13st. 13ib.. and Muttlebury, 13it. sb. The cox. for
Oxford Brt. 2ib., and for Cambridge 6st 61b. The
papers say it was one of the grandest races ever
witnessed,
♦ * ♦
As the onoe renowned Newstead has been
“ added to the list ” it is evident that the stories
told about his unsoundness before the last V.RC.
Derby were considerably exaggerated. It can be
taken for granted that the horse is now right
enough on bis understandings, and is intended to
be put into regular training, otherwise his stud
prospects would not have been so ruthlessly de
stroyed. As it is, the wisdom of the experiment
seems questionable.
• ♦ ♦
Recent prickings of the piety bubble by
Messrs. Crooks, Walker, and Go. have brought
about a godless revolution In South Australian
ideas. The re-legalisation of the totalizator is a
possible result. It Is the Adelaide turfite's last
hope—the only ohanoe of galvanising life into a
moribund sport. Considering that the Ade-
laide Cup was run in and t%t Mjr.
Crozier la taking some of the best blood out of the
colony, the new Act will not be passed a moment
too soon.
• * *
Notwithstanding the unsportsmanlike at-
tempt of a minority of the Junior Cricket Asso-
ciation to throw cold water on the contemplated
match fdr the Lithgow fund between a team from
this association and fifteen youngsters from the
clubs wMeh competed for Bowden’s Metropolitan
Cup, the contest was successfully initiated on the
Agricultural Ground on Monday last, and so far as
it has gone a very interesting and meritorious dis-
play of cricket has taken place. The second
juniors scored 129, and their eider opponents 126, so
there is, apparently, not much to choose between
the teams.
CORRESPONDENCE
[OorrupondenU who aive neither name ncr nom-de-
vlwne cannot expect to have their com-
munication i noticed, l
“ A.P.” (Candelo): We gather from
"Southern Flowers” that you are a dyspeptic.
Digestion never cau be complete unless the mind
! is at rest, which yours can never be so long as you
writ© such poetry. The mind, dear sir, is only the
brain, which is as much a part of ihe body as are
the muscles and bones...." J.W.” (Tamworth);
Thanks for your news in re testimonial to Father
Ryan. We hope that when the rev. gentleman is
Pope, which he deserves to be, he will wire to us
which toe ho wishes us to salute and forward our
expenses to Europe “C.R.J.”: The Victorian
Commissioner of Customs can’t prosecute the
Melbourne firms who have defrauded the Customs,
because the Sydney firms decline to give evidence.
There is honour among—merchants “C.C.”
(Vegetable Creek): Thanks. Write again.......
"Klllarney Terrace Thanks for suggestion....
J.8.W.” (Charters Towers): We don’t approve of
the Salvation Army bowlings, any more than we
approve of the dog-howling nuisance. But that
the Mayor should have got the Rev. Faggan fined
£lO and costs for street-preaching shows what a
farce is the so-called Christianity of the day. If
the Gospel is any good it can’t be preached too
publicly. The Mayor persecutes the Salvationists,
who are about the only set of people that seem to
be in earnest about religion. You say they are
mad; suppose you thoroughly believed that youf
only; way of escaping the torments of an eternal!
hell was to sell all your goods and give to the poor,
and pray all the time, do you think you could keep'
an Imperturbable exterior ? The man who works'
bard all the week and gives away most of Ms 1
wages in obayity, and who on Sunday takes a holi-'
day by wheeling about paralysed men in bath-
chairs in Sydney Domain is more of a Christian
than most of the clergy.. ."Alpha”: Sorry thafr
your par. cannot be noticed...." 8.D.”: This one'
verse is all that we can print :
“ The bandicoot’s sweet melody
Came rippling through the trees;
Your little golden head, my pet,
Was pillowed on my knees:
You were in sweet Elysium, love,
Although your dress was wet,—
That we should be disturbed, my love;.
Is all that I regret.”
Which you will notice assaults the rule as to'
sequence of tenses in the last two lines. Regard-
ing the former piece, we would ask you seriously
What is the use of sending lines in which the
metre is as crooked as a landlord’s conscience?
But try again. You can do much better work
than anything you have yet sent us....“ Bus-
hman”; Your denouement, having a conventional!
flavour, shows Itself somewhat prematurely,
but for all that the merits of the sketch may earn
for it the necessary space. As you seem to flash a
clever quill you might try your hand at some
fresher bush subjects. Please send address.....
"Thoto.”; You are apparently suffering from
Habigle’s complaint, Fonetism, or, as it is
commonly called, "The Mavers.” The letters
" L.0.L.” after Hablgle’s name signify “ Loyal orl
Life.”—*‘C. Angstrom There is hope for you
yet..,." Waverley”: Sir Walter Scott’s first prose
work remained 10 years unpublished...." Oyster
Johnnie”: Thanks....“E. Rylands”: Clever sug-
gestion—will reproduce. . .“T.E.H.”: A little too
straight —"P.H.”: England was the first enemy
of America. Rome once ruled the world. ..
“Lunatic”: Thanks...."lnaM.W.”: Received....
‘ G.C.” (Forbes): An excellent study.... “Crayon”
(Melbourne): Idea excellent; but must be re-
drawn. As suggestions, such sketches are always*
welcome ‘ C.J.W.” :, You remind us of the*
Sydney usurer, who, after getting out of the ver-
dant young Mac Eyeglass 10) per cent, per annum 1
interest on a loan of £lOOO, and still bigger interest;
on other amounts, was, according to the victim,,
“ constantly volunteering to lend plaintiff money r .
and soliciting him to take advantage of his offers.’”
.. " J. 8.”: You are wrong. Tile American war was*
fought primarily against separation and s®©ond-
arlly against slavery. The trouble virtually be-
gan in 1860, and only on New Year’s Day,
could Lincoln be induced to issue his manifesto;
for the liberation of all slaves in the Southern*
States. When the war was over, not only were*
the rebel States governed for a time under mar-
tial law, but the 4,000,000 negroes were enfran-
chised, so as to turn the balance of parties 1m
favour of the indivisibility of the Republic.
“Francis Richards”: Thanks for the cutting--
Statements made by a Welsh piper are, however,,
not to bo accepted without, the reserve imposed*
by a due regard for generally alleged national'
peculiarities ...." A. Smith”; Adelina Patti has*
never visited Australia; her sister, Carlotta,. wasp
here some years ago. As a singer, she probably-
ranks higher than any of the others you mention..
—" Tim ftuttei fty Yery pleased to hear from'
... ‘ Simplex ’’(Cairns, Q,): Cannot identify'
(Continued on page O.J


Qjffr
H °T EL
Experientia Docet.
[?] SW [?]OMAN (loq.): “THERE THEY ARE AGAIN—LANDLORD PARKES, AND PRETTY WELL THE SAME OLD CROWD-FREE-TRADE, LEMONADE, AND ORANGE-AID! THEY THINK THEY’RE GOING TO LAMB ME DOWN AGAIN, DO THEY?"


DR. BELL’S (KIDNEY AND LIVER) BITTERS
Are no “ hit or miss ” compound or old wowan’s
mixture. They are prepared hy a scientific
pharmacist, with a full knowledge of the powers
and virtues of each Ingredient in the class of
diseases which it cures. It is purely 'vegetable
and cannot harm the youngest child or the most
feeble invalid *
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Persons who have a superstitious dread of
Friday will not be pleased to learn that this is a
thoroughly Friday year. It came in on Friday,
and will go out on Friday, and will have fifty-three
Fridays. There are four months in the year that
have five Fridays each; changes of the moon occur
five times on a Friday, and the longest and shortest
day ef the year each falls on Friday; and Summer*
field and Company, the greatest Juvenile Out*
fitters, Pitt-street, Sydney, supply their splendid
little boys’ overcoats at8/ll on Friday, as well as on
any other day.*
Gloom and despondency removed toy
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
"The oldest and most advancing inditstrjf
of the world is Pottery. Its record begins with the
building of the Tower of Babel. No price is tod
great for an article to cost which calls for the be Sr
labours of the best artists. At Christie’s, a good
work always commands its value. £4166 realised
for a dish supposed to be made by Palissy, thd
Huguenot potter ; and £4000 could easily hav©
been obtained for two bowls presented Princess
Marie, of Orleans, by Baroness Rothschild. Yet,
in the colony, many think it impossible that plates,
dishes, or cups and saucers, can cost at the works
as much as £2 and £3 each, but it can be demon-
strated any day by asking to be shown upstairs of
402 and 404 George-street. The proprietors,
Messrs. Bray, will be glad to see anyone desiring
to inspect.*
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 012 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS.
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS la EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
871a Pltt-straeft, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE”,
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Worfthelm Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Planes.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
'[BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
Political
Points
South Australia objecting to the sweet
little arrangement arrived at by N.S.W. and Vic-
toria re the waterway of the Murray. Complains
that S.A.’s interests are Ignored.
Mr. G. H. Reid, the freetrade M.P., floated
In for Bast Sydney at the last general election on
beer. Now he advocates a beer-tax and opposes
ad valorem duties, the publicans used to think
“squeaky voice ” was their best friend.
“Eight thousand ladies of Cork County
have sent a petition to the Queen against Home
Rule. One thousand of the signers are Roman
Catholics.” Who was it that said “ Every woman
is at heart a Tory—a Queen-worshipper, Prince-
worshipper, and Lord-worshipper ? ”
“Billy” Pattison, the “uncrowned kipg ”
of Rockhampton, who has just been returned un-
opposed for Blackall, thinks that the North
Queensland Separation movement might be
averted by granting an extension of the powers
of local Government in the disaffected regions,
and prom ses his support to a scheme with that
object.
The Northern Miner points out that
should Kimberley goldfields prove payable, their
proximty to Chinese ports will bring the yellow
man in thousands. Says the alert Thadeus-. ‘South
Australia cares very little for the Northern Terri-
tory, but Queensland cannot allow it to become a
focus for the accumulation of Chinese 111th and
villainy there.”
Further tests of bayonets served out to
British troops show that the scoundrelly army
contractor is still at his murderous old game. Out
of the last batch ot 60J be'onging to Ist Battalion
GrenadieriGuarde, ITO were condemned as soft or
With too-small points, and 23 broke. In the Soudan,
British bayonets (made in Germany ~
Countrymen of the “ English Royal family) bent
like hoop-iron.
The Agricultural Gazette says: “Eng-
land is now a retail-shop for the productions of
all foreign countries, whl e her own artlzans,
mechanics, and labourers are tramping: the streets
and roads by day, and taking refuge by night in
the union workhouses. . . . A box of Baglish
watches sent to America has to pay £4O duty, and
the same sized box, returned full ot American
watches, is admitted into England free of Iduty
Burrowa Times wants Tom Slattery to
“‘wake up to local wants or resign.” The Burrowa
Times is a mean, small-souled rag. Tom Slattery
is wanted in Sydney to organize a new navy. He
has a mind of an Imperial cast, and is deep in fleets
and armaments for the defence of England against
Bismarck and the other unprincipled despots of
tthe Continent. Tom doesn’t want to hear for 10
years to come about the “deplorable state of the
imail-track to Binalong.”
Dr. Benson, Archbishop of Canterbury,
'draws £l5 000 a year, and Dr. Temple, Bishop of
London, £lO,OOO a year. For what? Says an Eng-
lish writer i - ** H&ppily the time is drflwiog: ne&r
when the people of England will object to pay 10
aolld golden millions a year to a clerical bureau-
cracy which does not use its enormous powers
justly The white-tied mob of selfish chatterers
who imagine their ‘we’ represents the voice of
the Trinity have come to the end of their tether.
The howling Orangemen of Victoria have
assembled together in Melbourne and denounced
Mr. Gladstone’s proposals to grant Home Rule to
Ireland. The meeting of bigots and dervishes was
presided over by that very fishy person the Grand
Master of the Orange Lodge, the pious ex-Hon.
Richard Richardson, whoa jear ago was compelled
to resign his position as a member of the Execu-
tive Council of Victoria, and who got ousted from
the representation of Creswick at the last general
election.
The Czar, after massing 350,000 troops in
the Crimea, took a run down to see the boys, and
sent a message around the fleet ordering an extra
glass of vodki to each tarry bosom, and informing
them that he is a man of peace, but that circum-
stances might arise when he might have to, fcc.
He has defrayed the cost of one million glasses of
vodki for the army out of a line he has made in
buying up German stocks In Berlin Vienna.
Bismarck is running the same game by wending
great numbers of troops into Alsace and Lorraine.
'When French stocks go down low enough he will
' buy up. serve out lager all round, and bring the
vhoys back home again much improved by their few
marching.
At a meeting held to raise funds to build
an Anglican Cathedral in Brisbane, Governor Mus-
»rave cracked up the “ Mother Church ” to such
a tMe that the O'Kane couldn’t stand It. Says
»ie- “There was no cash put down, and that is
•characteristic of Anglican meetings. They have
oceans of talk and prayer, and requisitions on
“mother* Church, but of solid cash not a shilling.
w e think it is high time this Anglican Church
Should drop the part of playing first fiddle and
aspiring to be the ‘genteel’ church, the only
true brand of Christianity. We for one tell the
Governor to mind the business for which he was
sent here, and for which the colony pays him a
ridiculously high salary.”
Eighty-three years ago Sir Joseph Banks
Was laudably endeavouring to persuade the
British Government to form a settlement
at Botany Bay, and this is what the great
literary gun, tne Edinburgh Review, thought
ot the trouble then “It may be a curious
consideration to reflect what we are to do with
this colony when it comes to years of discretion.
Are we to spend another hundred millions of
money in discovering Its strength, and to humble
ourselves again before a fresh set of Washingtons
and Franklins ? The moment after we have suf-
fered such serious mischiefs from the escape of
the old tiger, we are breeding up a young cub
whom we cannot render less ferocious or more
secure.” Can this really he our destiny after all ?
Perish the thought. It nevah, nevao can-at least
not as long as we raise Daileys and Slatterys in the
place of Washingtons and Franklins.
' One item of special interest in the labour
conflicts in America is the fresh departure made
by trades-unionism on behalf of women-workers.
Tne leading societies there propose to insist on
women who are employed at the same work as
men receiving the same rate of pay. No chival-
rous reason is assigned. The reformers simply
urge that as machinery has taken away the neces-
sity of employing brute strength, the original
superiority possessed by men has ceased to have
commercial value. We must demand, they say,
that women shall receive as good pay for the same
kind of work as men, or capital will bring our pay
down to the same scale as that paid to women. In
this movement there is an element of fair play as
well as an element of prescience, which will
make It a thing of power some day. When the
day comes, the application of the principle will
not limit itself to America. Throughout civilisa-
tion the difference made in the remuneration of
women ana men for the same kind of work is in-
defensible.
There is no hypocrisy or affectation about
newspaper editors in the Far North. This is what
the Towering Intellect that runs the Carpentaria
Times says concerning the alleged Queensland
surplus:—“Queensland professes to have a sur-
plus, while her Colonial Treasurer but a short time
since taxed machinery—and beerl” We can well
Imagine the bitter scorn with which the writer
penned this sentence. He could have understood
a prohibitive duty on prayer-books, and might
even have regarded the placing of a poll-tax on
parsons with no unfriendly eye, but to increase
the price of beer I—this wrung his withers. Indeed.
It is very clear that Separation is the only remedy
for the injustice the North suffers under from the
South. Up till now the agitation of the Northerners
has been comparatively feeble in its results, but
the beer-tax will change the face of things. It was
only a tea-tax that caused the American colonies
to break from Britain. A beer-tax is a factor of
greater force. The streets of Brisbane may yet
run with tanglefoot if the North is thoroughly
aroused. May we be there I
The rumpus raised by the Auckland peo-
ple about the honours piid to Cardinal Moran
MISTAKES WILL OCCUR.
THE OLD MAN: “BY JIMINRY! HOW THESE YERB BOOTS DO CREAK! I'LL HAVE TO
GREASE ’EM UP A LITTLE, I THINK.”
during his New Zealand picnic smacks of clerical
jealousy. They say that " clergymen in connec-
tion with other churches have at times visited
New Zealand who have not received the same or
any attention at the hands of the Government.
Surely this is evadinar the cardinal point—ttmrank
of his Eminence. What if the Government did
supply their illustrious visitor with a free railway
pass and a body-guard of 20 policemen (rather a
doubtful honour, that) when he took the air in a
carriage ? These were merely official tributes to
the Cardinal’s exalted station. He has worked
himself up into a high position, and grovel is his
just reward. Now, if (say) H.R.H. the Prince of
Walesshould ever cast his rotund shadow on New
Zealand soil-and he possibly may-these captious
critics will tumble over one another in their
anxiety to breathe unon the hem of his royal
garment. They will load him with those little
attentions which they objected to in the case of
Cardinal Moran, If their late protest had been
prompted by a healthy radicalism we could have
condoled with the men of Auckland. But no; the
AWAY OFF.
MISTRESS TO NEW SERVANT: “BRIDGET, WHERE IS THE DESERT?”
BRIDGET (glowing with pride): "THER DESSERT, MUM? IT’S IN AFRIKY OR AGYPT.
THE TACHER ALWUS CALLED ME A FOINE LUMP OV A SCHOLAR.”
reference to "clergymen in connection with other
churches” puts them away entirely. Let these
good gentlemen protest against all class distinc-
tions—against feasting a duke because he is a
duke, and huzzaing a prince because he is a
prince. But so long as they take a godly delight
in truckling to any man of any rank or any posi-
tion let them be content to render unto the Kyar-
dinal the things which are the Kyardinal’s.
The Sydney D.T., in writing about Bishop
Moorhouse and his speeches in Manchester, takes
occasion to say that Australia will enjoy an im-
munity from socialistic ideas. " There is no
danger,” it says in one part, “ of such old-world
conditions as breed a pestilent socialism being set
up in any of these lands.” “ Endow Britons,” it
fays in another, “ with full citizenship, place them
in some of the comparatively open spaces of the
world, give them an opportunity of acquiring a
share of the comforts and enlightenments of
civilisation, and they will soon shake themselves
free of an unhealthy Socialism.” The words
“ pestilent ” and “ unhealthy ” are not discri-
minating terms doctrines of Socialism,
but "express the D.T.’s notion of the system.
There is something peculiarly oblique In this way
of looking at so great a movement. Socialism is a
philosophy. It is the offspring of the theoretical
and practical philosophies over which the world
has hitherto laboured. It may contain errors, but
it aims at holding all the good the idealist and
pragmatist have talked about. It Is no upheavm
of the lower classes. Not one of the guides of the
system belongs to the lower class. In Russia and
Germany the exponents belong to the upper-mid-
dle and aristocratic classes. The objective point
Is commonly the degradation to whieh the labour-
ing part of every community is subjected, and be-
cause this is put in the front of the system efureles*
people are found to say that the system is the out-
come of the discontent of the lower classes. That
is the D.T.’s rook. But on the contrary, the hap-
pier the world becomes, the fuller will it grow of
the philosophy of Socialism.
The deputation mania is raging in Queens-
land, and no remedy yet devised seems sufficient
to relieve the agony which has fallen on the mt n
who sit in high places and draw high salaries. For
some time past the public offices in Brisbane have
been besieged by people with grievances, and it
become impossible to throw a copy of Han-
sard out of the window without braining a mayor
and corporation waiting below. Everybody in
the colony seems to be pining under some secret
sorrow which can only be relieved by application
to the Premier. Concealment, like a worm m the
bud, has long been preying on the damask cheek
of many a municipal council and divisional board,
and flndiug that their petitions were simply
handed over to the deputy-office hoy-a Minister
without nortfolio-to be acknowledged, they rose
as one alderman and came in person. Probably It
was for this reason that half the Cabinet resolved
on making a voyage to North Queensland in the
Government yacht Lucinda, fondly hoping that
peace would await them. But they were sadly
disappointed. At every port where they have
landed they have been met by demands lor two
or three millions; and towns which they had re-
solved to pass by sent forth piratical deputations
by special steamer, who boarded the Lucinda
with their drawn petitions in their hands.
Rockhampton was one of these neglected spots,
and in the morning when the Government were
expected to pass by, the representatives of the
town were waiting on board the Dolphin at Port
Alma, to intercept the loaves and fishes on their
way northward. No Lucinda appearing they went
on to Sea Bill, and there they caught sight of the
enemy and steamed across their bows. Then an
exciting scene took place. The Premier on the
quarter deck of the Government yacht occupied
the same position as Mrs. Hemans’ Brahmin, who
iooked forth from his leaguered towers,
And saw the wild archer among his bowers ;
at all events he saw the wily deputation on hoard
the Dolphin, and he gave the order to run. Both
vessels headed for Port Alma, and the excitement
grew awful. The Dolphin was losing, but the
deputation went down and sat on the safety-valve
of the boiler, while on the other side the Cabinet
stoked for their lives, and the Colonial Treasurer
piled bacon and hams on the furnace, and charged
. the damage to the Consolidated Revenue, Then
the Premier came on deck, overcome by the close-
ness of the atmosphere below, and sat down
beside a bucket; while the deputation, whose
confidence was rising as that of their enemies
declined, served brandy all round and sung
patriotic songs. But Port Alma was close at hand,
and though the strain on the Government boiler
was already equal to 20 curses to the square inch,
it was hoped the machinery would hold long
enough to allow the Ministry a chance of escaping
into the bush. Fate, however, was against
them, for, Just as the crippled vessel ranged
alongside the jetty the deputation boarded
her with a yell and drove the Premier be-
fo*e them into the cabin. Then a scene of wild
confusion ensued. The deputation wanted a rail-
way, a loan of £20,000, a new post [office, a loan of
£lOOO, a little common courtesy, a grant of £l5O a
year, some whisky, and a few chairs to sit upon
In fact, they wanted the earth, did that jubilant
crowd, and all they got was the whisky, which was
of a very inferior brand at the best. The Cabinet
escaped at a late hour In the evening, and are now
reported to be living on locusts and wild honey
somewhere up North. Evidently the Roekhamp-
ton people have cast their bread upon the waters,
and the chances are, when it returns to them after
many days, it will be so damaged by sea-water as
to be of no value to any one.
BEWARE
ITnprlncipalled persons, jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on the fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of Intelligence knows that Vile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissue of the infiamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing I It is ‘your
money and your life ” with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be ail it is
repreieited by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.


sojKSc Schnapps a powerful and whole
In church last Sunday, we saw no less
than 200 women with birds on their bonnets. In
this instance, perhaps, the women were justified
in choice millinery, for of course birds worn at
church are birds of pray, and have nothing to do
that their little boys were all clothed
brat - e( i haif-guinea suits supplied by
Summerflold and Company, the great Tmr«niio
Outfitters, 835 and 337 Pitt-streetTSydney .* mle
X- 1?. CJ i s ® 9* emergency you should keep a
DOttlo of Wolfe s Schnapps on the premises#
Wild dogs are doing much damage. They
seem to be a cross between the cur and the buli-
are , n ® rco ’ Powerful, and intelligent.
Their last exploit was to chase a man and his team
three miles in order to tell the man to be sure that
, h e Sydney that he was fitted out at
the celebrated firm of bummerfleld and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 335 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney
beautifuliy.fltting suits to measure
USB
DR. SCOTT'S
Electric Appliances.
“THE GERM OF LIFE IS ELECTRICITY.”*
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets & Belts
AN ENGINEER’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the s.B. Northum-
bria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past 25.
years, sends us the following statement:—* ‘About,
seven or eight years ago I sprained my back in lift-
log an anchor, and from that time until I came to.
you for a Belt, I never was well. Excruciating
pains in the back and muscles used to attack me.
with alarming persistency until really I could never
depend on freedom for a single day. Having tried
so many things ineffectually, you cannot wonder
that I purchased your Dr. Scott’s Electric Belt
with considerable misgiving, but I am happy to tell
you that since commencing to wear it I have been
entirely relieved and have not suffered from any
of my old symptoms since. lam now completely
cured, and there are scores of men in the coastal
trade to whom I have recommended it, who, from
personal experience, can speak as highly of it as
myself.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET
For
HEALTH, COMFORT, AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
Mrs. Williams, of Millers-street, St. Leonards,
writes of these admirable curative appliances:
—“I cannot speak too highly of your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Corsets as a natural and scientific moans
of relieving pain. For a very long period I suffered
from acute backache—one of the moat distressing
complaints of our sex, but lam happy to inform
you that since wearing your corset (Dr. Scott’s) I
have never once felt a relapse or a return of my old
symptoms. I consider them, Indeed, invaluable,
and frankly and earnestly recommend them.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC BELTS.
ALMOST MAGICAL.
Constable William Stapleton, of the Redfern
Police Station, has experienced some of the benefits
of curative electricity in the form of Dr. Scott’s
the only genuine) Electric Belt. I suffered con-
siderably, says Mr. Stapleton, from muscular pains
in the back, caused through exposure and taking
cold in the execution of my duty during a heavy
rainstorm. You cannot imagine the amount of
pain and agony I suffered from this comparatively
trifling matter, and it became so bad that I was
obliged to consult our surgeon and obtain sick
leave. Neither the one or the other availed, how-
ever, and as a last resort I tried your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Belt. The effect was almost magical. The
pain seemed to leave me instantly, and I have never
felt the slightest Inconvenience from it. I have
recommended your Belt to scores of my friends,
and amongst others to Mr. F. Cavener, the head
porter of the Railway Station, who used it with
equally successful results upon a child of his. I
am well known in the force, and if my published
recommendation is of any service to you you are
welcome to it.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
SPLENDID ARTICLES.
Mrs. Kirk, Bathurst, writes:—“l am highly re-
commending your Electric Corsets. They are
really splendid articles.”
BETTER THAN REPRESENTED.
~ O it mu n . T Brooklyn, June 28.
Dr. Scott,—The Corsets I ordered six months ago
have worn splendidly, and have given satisfaction
every way. They are the best Corset I ever wore
aside from their electric qualities, which are truly
marvellous. I suffered greatly from rheumatism
in my back and limbs; but your Electric Corsets
have entirely cured me. They are better than re-
presented.
Mrs. J. B. Babson,
RECOMMENDED.
„ ~ Byron Creek, Richmond Rlv»r.
Gent emen,-Your Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset
and Belt came safely to hand. My wife finds very
great comfort through wearing your corset, and
I have not suffered from those pains in my back
that 1 used to worry me so before. I recommend
your goods with earnest confidence.
Yours faithfully,
T. Leahby,
MORE RELIEF.
THEY COME AND STILL THEY COMB.
St. Joseph’s Convent.
„ Kooringa, 8. Australia.
Gentlemen, Your Electric Corsets, which
pleased me very much, came duly to hand.
Truly yours.
Sister St. Joseph.
CURED OF DYSPEPSIA.
_ „ , Niles, Mich., Januarv 5 iss*;
Dr. Scott s Electric Corsets have cured*mo nf
acute dyspepsia, from which I had suffered fnr
eight years. His Electric Hair Brash oS my
headache every time. a my
Mrs. Wm. H.p ak.
WELL WORTH THE MONEY.
Coughlan, Oootamundra, writes, Februaiv
17 . . I J’, ecei 7 ed the Electric Corsets safely, an.
am highly pleased with them. They are wei?
worth the money. I have also much pleaaeure m
that I like your Electric Hair Brush very
These goods are sent out in a handsome hex. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by whloh
the Electric-Magnetic influent can be tested Tf
you cannot get them in yom town, we. wifi send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of nrfco
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
postage™ 88 UP ° n receipt of stBm P to cover full
The prices are as follows;
No. 1 Corset
No. 2 Corset
No. 3 Corset
No. 5 Corset
Electric Belts
s. d.
..6 6
.. 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION!
54 MARGAKBT-STIIEET, SYDNEY **
Woman Items
At a meeting of the Melbourne Presbytery
lately, the Key. J. Hay remarked, “I have no
squatters in my church The only man affected
by the drought is myself.” And saying this, with
a smile, the reverend gentleman—went out and got
a drink..
It is said that in New York 1000 women go
to sleep every night with masks on their faces.
The masks are Intended to Improve the com-
plexion. If this fashion extends to Sydney, we
will advise some of the young ladies who do the
block to wear their masks in the day-time. They
would then give pleasure to all and startle no-
body.
Miss Oldboy; “No, Bridget, you were out
last night and the night before. I can’t under-
stand why you should go out so often.” To which
Bridget, placing her forefinger in her mouth, and
looking archly down, replies—" Yerra no, Miss,
but sure you would av you were younger and
handsomer than ye are.” Bridget was allowed to go
that night and every other night till the Day of
Judgment.
Prom the Sydney E. News: “As Miss Lena
Eberly was returning home from catechism in
Columbus, 0., she was met by Miss L. Linkenhell,
who made a dash at her, and seizing her by the
bands, placed one of the fingers in her mouth and
bit the end nearly off.” We thank heaven that
some mysterious instinct of self-preservation hat
kept us away from catechism orgies a good deal,
We somehow fancied this sort of thing would
happen. We have seen young ladies and gentle-
men “returning home from catechism ” trying tc
bite one another’s noses off quite frequently.
“Apropos to Sir Alfred, Stephen’s Divorce
Extension Bill. The following quotation head*
chapter vhl. of " The New Abelard,” by Robert
Buchanan:—
“ What God hath joined no man shall put asunder.”
Even so I heard the preacher cry and blunder 1
Alas I the sweet text applied could be
Only to Eden or in Arcady.
This text, methinks, is apter more In season:
What man Joins, God shall sunder—when there’*
r6BSOQ«
At Groulburn Police Court the other day
a barmaid was fined £5 for supplying a mac
against whom there was a prohibition in force,
with a glass of brandy. His wife saw him go intc
the bar, and call for the brandy. She rushed in
and seized the tumbler. He stuck to it like s
peeier to a mutton-pie, and the liquor
5¥L 5? illed u on the missus’s apron. She took
it to the police and let them smell itj
Alas! alas! that we’re obliged to tell it
The Poorce could plainly on the apron smell it—
Heaven never gave good drink for men to waste
it f
Had we been they, as sure as we write paper on
We would hav© hastened to boil down that apron
And taste it!
The Empress Josephine, wife of Napo-
leon 1., had £30.000 a year pin-money, but that
wasn’t enough for her by £7O ( 00. She was alwaye
m debt, and when things became too mixed pool
Josephine cried and Boney paid up She changed
her linen, says the historian, three times dally, and
each time she wore new stockings. Every evening
she wore a fresh arrangement of pearls and other
precious stones, and she died in pale rose-coloured
satin decked with ribbons. We may have everv
admiration for the vast military and prlitical skid
of Napoleon, but his failure to appreciate the
heroic struggles of his wife to dress and undress
If hours out of the 21, shows him to have been a
man of low tastes and ignomlniously unworthy of
such a wife. He ought to have married somebody
who only dressed twice a day.
Edison, who has spent eight years in per-
fecting the t lectrlc light, has now gone back to the
phonograph. He means to construct phonogranhs
for office use, to take the place of shorthand clerks
and type-writers. All you will have to do will be to
hand it to the office-boy, who by touching a
spring, can make it repeat ail that you have
said to it and transcribe at will. Then again, you
can have one at home, and when a thought strikes
you all that is necessary is to talk at the machine
and you have it boxed up for next day. He has no
doubt that it will be a great success. It strikes
one that this domestic phonograph will be an in-
estimable boon to women. They can speak their
mind now and leave the box inside the door so
that in opening it the spring will be touched. She
can then go to bed in peace, and John will have
the genuine welcome home Here you are again
i in the morning; dcunkonoe more. What are
you putting your boots on the mantel-piece for
you idiot ? Oh, dear me, i’ll go back to my ma—
boo—hoo-hoo I”
Sir Arthur Sullivan denies all knowledge
of his “approaching marriage,” and wrltcs:-
“The number of times I find myself erg iged by
the press to young ladies in whom I have taken
but slight interest is at once amusing and annoy-
ing. The report that I was to make the pretty
Yum Jum of my original ’Mikado’ company
Lady Sullivan has the effectual contradiction of a
husband alive, well, and on excellent terms with
his charming wife; and as for Miss from
California, to whom I hava been so nearly married
by every newspaper in America, I suppose that
report grew out of the purely professional inte-
rest I took in a clever young singer, who gives
promise of a future, and at the beginning of her
career over here stood in need of influential musi-
cal friends.” Anyway, Sir Arthur (who, by the
way, is a Jew—his real name is Solomon) will have
to wake up soon or he’ll get left, and some fair
Katisha may ironically sing his own song in his
ear—
“ Are you old enough to marry, do you think?
Won’t you wait 111 you are eighty In the shade?
There’s a fascination frantic
In a ruin that’s romantic;
Do you think you are sufficiently decayed?”
Some literary men write in shirt-sleeves
in a dingy crib of eight by ten, with no furniture
beyond a stool, a gin-case, a short clay pipe, and a
boy to drop across the road and bring over the
quart jug with the froth on. George Eliot, Bul-
wer, Dickens, and Victor Hugo dressed well, had
beautiful rooms and pictures, and drove out
with spanking chestnuts. Hazlitt and Porson
were always drunk—Hszlltt on spirits, and Porson
on porter-whenever they wished to shine; and
De Quincey and Coleridge were at their best when
a pint of ruby-coloured laudanum was getting low
in the decanter at daybreak. But here’s a new
idea (from a Sydney daily paper adveitis ament)•-
“An editress on corsets (Silver Press, Sunny
Corner. Dr. Scott’s electric corsers fit most
admirably, and are most comfortable. The soothing
influence of the electricity islremarkable, and I
strongly advise all ladies of literary taste to wear
them.— Agnes E. M’Donald.” There la a big
idea in this. Our staff are not uniformly brilliant
—one of ’em, for instance, is just now lying at
full length dreaming of a land where the rivers
run rum and beer gargles over the shining sands.
We shall put a corset on him, as a strait-jacket
seems to make him mad. The corset will consist
of a 36-gallon cask with the ends knocked out and
two arm-holes.
The Rev. 8. P. Webber, of Richmond
(Vie,), delivered a lecture the other night on
‘Wives” in which he made the statement that
‘there was in a woman a vast mine of unde-
yeloped treasure, and the question for her hus-
band was how to get that treasure out.” Maybe
it is; we remember how we used to answer, to
ourselves, that same question in the antique days
when we were married. When we went to bed
we would close our eyes and fall to breathing
regularly,as one in profound sleep. It was a
comedy then to see the missus. She would lean
over and look scrutinlsingly at us, and then, when
she had satisfied herself that we were really asleep,
cautiously take her purse out of her pocket and
hide it under the carpet or behind the grate. Then
she would come chuckling into bed and go to sleep
with a sweet smile of content on her face. As
soon as we were sure that she was safely off we
would creep out and transplant the nurse into our
own pocket. The second act of this little domestic
drama would commence in the morning, when we
would ask her for something to buy rum with,
and be assured with so emn and pathetic earnest-
ness that she hadn’t a penny in the world and if
wedldnt believe her we might search her pockets.
Without another word we would sally out into the
balsamic atmosphere of morn, and (after consider-
ably depleting the purse) return home rending it
with our hiccups. What the third act cf the drama
consisted of has nothing to do with the world at
large. We may mention, however that it was not
wanting In poetic justice, and that a flat-iron
played a conspicuous part in it. Peace to her
memory; She was the straightest shot with a flat-
iron we have ever known.
There is a carpenter, now living in a suburb
of the city of Adelaide, who is the most famous
man within a radius of several hundred yards of
his own house. He is the Marco Polo of the place,
and, till he dies, will doubtless be looked upon by
his neighbours as the supreme authority on travel
and tne wonders of the outlying world. The
curious part of the affair is that he became a
traveller altogether against his will. It happened
in this way. He went on board the Sorata, which
was about to start for England, in order to say
good-bye to a friend. While both of them were
down below taking a parting glass the steamer
moved off and glided calmly down the bay. The
frightened carpenter rushed on deck in time to
see the launch disappearing in the distance, and
the low shores of the land where he had left his
wife and children, two goats, and a sitting hen
slowly sinking on the horizon. Green with terror
he ran to the captain, who calmly informed him
he would treat him as a stowaway. This was a
crusher for the poor carpenter. He saw before
him the prospect of doing a stretch of several
months, possibly in iron?, in an English prison,
POLITENESS COSTS NOTHING
LANDLADY: “GO AHEAD, MR. FRAIDCAT, AND SEE WHAT IT IS!"
MR. FRAIDCAT (with cowardly presense of mind): “LADIES FIRST, ALWAYS!"
a ? d w hen h ® «rot out not being able,
at the present rate of wages for trades-
men In England, to earn enough to take
him back again till he was bald headed.
There was also the agonising thought that his wife
might believe he had deserted her, and after the
statutory number of years of absence had passed,
might get married again, perhaps to some
scoundrel who would eat up the progeny of the
sitting hen and barter the goats for rum. Then
when he returned at last, a bent and broken Enoch
Arden, to claim his rights, what could he look
forward to but getting head smashed by that
drunken scoundrel the new husband, and then
being given in charge for being on the premises-
hls own premises—with felonious Intentions ? His
wife might not recognise him, or might not
persisted in his assertions,
what would be more probable than that he would
be run into the asylum as a hopeless lunatic ? As
a prospect to look forward to, it was gruesome
enougn to make the gladdest spirit gloomy. But
all these fearful foreoodings were soon dispelled
by the saloon passengers interceding for him with
the captain who agreed to put him ashore on the
Island of Diego Garcia, In the Indian Ocean
Toe captain kept his promise, and the hero of this
curious adventure stayed on the island till the
Chimborazo arrived there, when he was taken on
to Adelaide. On hlg being landed, he made for
home rapidiy, and flung himself into the arms of
2J S wife who order, we suppose, to show that
she had not forgotten him during his absence)
with a fine boy which she had
added to the family while he was on his cruise.
To make his joy complete, the sitting-hen had
performed her task, and was parading round the
y 5 r * T l 4? brood behind her, and one of the
w' dded :. More happiness no wise man
) a '? yr ?u e ’ *1 happiness consists
l?h Dvit i ati 2u 8 to drlnlr , this fortunate carpenter
is happier than many a policeman.
They had pointed out David Buchanan to
the prisoner as the counsel who was to defend
him; David was then defending an innocent some-
body else. Whispered the solicitor over prisoner’s
shoulder: “You had better plead guilty. It is all
against you.” “Not me,” roared the prisoner,
pointing out the eloquent advocate, “ I’ve heard
that bloomer spout and you don’t find me giving
in.”
FRIENDLY ADVICE.
CHUM : "Say, Israel, for heaven’s sake go
take a bath. You’ll never get a square meal if
you depend upon your personal appearance;
go take a bath."
ISRAEL: “You’m don’t know what You’m
talkin’ about. I took a bath long ago.”
It was a case of fowl-stealing, and some
speckled hens, answering somewhat to the descrip-
tion of the missing scratchers, had been found in
prisoner's possession. “ You swear these are your
hens?' asked the counsel for the defence. "I
do, sad the prosecutor. “You are very confl-
dent, said the counsel. “ Would you be surprised
to hear I ve got at my house some speckled hens
exactly such as you describe ?” “ No,” quoth the
prosecutor; “ I’ve lost two lots In six weeks,”
Thomas M‘Mahon, ex-mayor of Petersham,
who some years ago was found guilty of bill-
rorgiag and sentenced to seven years’ imprison-
for reaaonB known best to the
late Stuart Ministry, was released from gaol after
serving less than half that term, has called at this
office to state that he is innocent, and that it is his
intention to proceed with an action to recover the
amount of the bill to which he Is alleged feloniously
to have appended the signature of the dead man
Andreas.
A station-manager out towards Cooper’s
Creek (Q.l found a shanty the other day on what
he beiieved to be the rim of his run. He ordered
the vendor of bush-vitriol to wrap the bark about
him and go eastward or westward. But the spirit
merchant had measured the run. and made the
r.m lie at the other side of the tree against which
the shanty stood. The manager was a J P., and
suddenly remembering the powers with which he
was invested, he swore in two of his men as special
constables, and, it is said, ordered them to burn
down the house and manacle the merchant.
™ e /., Buccee(ied 10 the first h,lf, but the
socond was a much more difficult jop. By last
accounts the merchant was travelling towards
sunrise at the rate of three leagues a day. He
Jhmfe 4 n at i k 6 Wlll b . uy up all the laad he can And
about Brisbane and crush that manager. The
only really remarkable point in the affair appears
to have escaped notice. It is this—what can have
been the antecedents of a station manager, or for
nf e rwl tei i 0f H tha k* anyb fir.ml 'he extreme west
couH manifest such virulent
mil ? yaS tblS to a conven lently situated whisky


T3RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
fd
A
USTRIAN CHAIRS,
in
Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and
LAMB.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, tt all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb. .
W
Lamb.
ALL CABINETS, for Choice China, &c,
;VBRY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton, and
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, 0 Connell and
Spring streets.
CHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
P
Frio
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ces, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
f
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS,
for camping out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/61
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Ccnnell-streek
BEDS PE ADS.—AII kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest ratea<
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
d
I
EON SAFES,
various sizes.
BKADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAME
uomoass Celeste x cum,
Case. Free at rail or wharves tor cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
IVB POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED-
ROOM SUITES —The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising wardrobe, washstand with towe
•rail flrpflßintr tßbl© ftiid trlsss* ftDu two CllßirS
The lot for £5 153 l BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various wood*
and very handsome designs, with 7-re«t
und L* mb. Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
' ULL SUITES for DINING - ROOM SIDB-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE.
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OTAgIS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counefl-street.
TWINING TABLES, with patent extending
J J screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
fd
ICE CHESTS,
all sizes, from 275.
BBADLBY NEWTON, and
LAMB.
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
fdf
E
XOELSIOR UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 453.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
dI>ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and liamo,
O’Connell-street.
df
CANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and light, suit-
able for shipboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTONI
and LAMB.
I)
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS.- Early English,
and Chippendale designs. ___
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion
able designs In Black and Gold, with Sid'
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut Wood, a*
prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Fur-
niture Warehousemen, Spring and O Connell sta.
df
PATENT SANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
ELASTIC WOVEN WIRE
MAtfTRASSES.
LAWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6xB,
BxB, 9 x 8,10 x 8,13 xB, at low prices Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O'Connell and Spring streets.
d
American patent
SHUT-UP CLOTHES
DRYERS.
Each dryer gives 135 feet
of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
ALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING TABLES,
Tvitb two flaps, strongly made, only Ad IDS*
SOCIALS
On Tuesday evening 18th inst., the second
dance at Government House took Pis®®. UQ c®£
most favourable circumstances. About 35 P £ U ® B M|
were present, a larger number than on the first
occasion; ia fact, the guests seemed to know tins,
for they came some time berore they were ex-
pected by the gorgeous Samuel, who had scarcely
time to get into proper tune to whisper, car-
riages ordered at 13.30, sir, ’ and pass you on to
someone else, who took your hat and coat ana
gave you a pawr- ic'set in exchange. Lord Car-
ington and Lady Cariogton revived their guests
with their usual delightful urbanity at the
drawing-room door, and then the business began,
the young people filling thiir programmes.
Everything went off briskly, no unnecessary delay,
the dances being short and the intervals also short.
Light refreshments were to be obtained during the
evening, and the supper-room was opened at it
o'clock. His lExcellency and Lady Cariogton
joined in the first quadrille. Her ladyship s gown
is worthy of description, as it was most artistic
and beautiful. The skirt was formed of the palest
shade of pink silk, draped with same coloured
tuile, and large long bows of brocade, to match the
bodice, were placed at intervals round the skirt
The bodice was a beautiful pattern of brocade, and
fitted to perfection. Her ladyship, as usual, wore
magnificent diamond ornaments.
• • •
On Wednesday last, 19th last., Admiral
Tryon gave an “ At Home,” at the new Admiralty
House. The building has been erected by tte
Government of N.S W, as an inducement to the
Admiral to spend most of his time in Sydney. The
scheme has been a success, as, like others, * where
the home is there shall the Admiral oe also.
Well, the Admiral is a popular man (on shore), and
has gained the esteem of all who have met him or
done business with him. We are glad to be able to
say that we think he is the right man for Galway,
and regret that in October next he will return to
England. Some five or six hundred guests must
have attended his entertainment, which was as
pleasant as anyone could expect. The Governor
and Lady Carington and “suite ” (same suit) were
mere: so also was the “fashion”; so also our
representative men. Aunt Sally was played at by
those few—very few—young ladies who were not so
made up as to rend in sunder if they moved too
much. It was a cheerful sight to notice that a few
“ society girls ” had still enough flesh and blood in
them to remember the days of their childhood.
But how some shook their heads and talked ot
“ bad form I” These were mostly of the class who
feel they cannot unbend without displaying a
“ form ” by no means admirable. Miss Harpord
and Miss Lamb played tennis with some of the
male “ quality.” Take it all through, it was a
success, and the Admiral knows it.
• ♦ *
Not to be behind their chief, the captain
and officers of H.M.S. Nelson gave next day an
afternoon hop. Fully TOO poiple went, for at
least 500 were invited, and it s not too high an
average to putlthe present but uninviteds at 300;
still, had the 300 stayed at home, or gone to Clon-
tarf. as they should have done, matters would
have been a little easier lor the friends of the
officers. The deck of the Nelson Is well suited for
dancing, but that pastime was difficult, as the
good people who had come to see toe show
would stand in a ring-force of habit, no doubt.
No men make their guests more welcome than
naval men. They are a large-souled body of good
fellows, and when they ask you off they mean it.
’Tween decks refreshments were very plentiful—
this is a mistake - the 300 would have passed on to
Chowder Bay otherwise—still, the plenty was
there, audit was “ cut ana come again for all.
Sime never “cut,” they stand the whole time.
The hosts had filled up a place that they called a
“zareba;” it was made of hammocks covered
with flags, and otherwise decorated with swords
and pistols. It was a cosy spot, and would have
more fully occupied, only a man-hunting
widow played the spider mos , of the tun . and
scared away such as were on for a little flirt—
with someone else. We like to say a good word
when we can, so we mean to say it now. The
captain and officers of the Nelson are to be con-
gratulated on their party.
» • •
Much sympathy is felt by naval men for a ;
gallant officer of their cloth who is alleged in
England to have loved “not wisely but too well.
On the other hand the friends of a charming
Southsea widow are full of sympathy pver what
they deem to he but another illustration of the
perfidy of man—particularly naval man. From
the published English report it appears that the
widow became unexpectedly—a mother, no doubt
out of a feeling of loyalty for the Queen of Spain,
waosa royal lord had been dead some months
But you can carry loyalty too far, for in this case
the lady's husband has been dead some years,
Tnis made not only a distinction but a difference.
It certainly made a difference to the alleged
father, for he, poor man, has been summoned to
annear. In the ordinary course of events the
gentleman would not again visit the scene,
of his giddy youth for at least 13 months.
But the calls of outraged love are Im-
©erative. They must be met-like tailors
Dills. And, besides, with the natural desire to see
him once again, came a craving fer maintenance!
It is unfortunate that so base a thing as coin of the
realm should be allowed to spoil so pretty a
romance! Still, the widow wanted money-she
wants it still -and to the law she went. The solici-
tor who appeared for the defendant assured the
Bench that his deeply-injured client was In toe
Sunny South and many miles from home, it
would be cruel to go on with the case under the
circumstances. Said the magistrate s clerk. Do
you mean that? ’ The lawyer said ke did, and
added that It took 43 days for a letter to reach his
client, and then, wnatwith asking for leave and
other obstructions, he could not be in England to
vindicate his character for at least six months.
To this the opposite party objected. Put the
wire’s in operation, and your man will be here in
no time.” The Bench got an atlas and a postal
guide: they found that a telegram really could be
sent to this far off place, and that the gallant
officer could be back in a few months. Adjourn
the case for four months, said they. He 11 he a
flue child by that time, said the lady. Ihe case
w uB then fixed for a certain date. But what we
want to know is: When does he go home, and
when return ?
♦ * *
Society at Albury has been stirred to its
very depths during the last week, the trouble
being that the bachelors of the 1 aderai city-hav-
ing decided to entertain their friends at a dance
came to loggerheads when the question ot final
selection was discussed. The affair was, of course,
to be high-toned, and the line ot laid
do ivn by the committee was supposed to separate
those who “nevah soiled their dainty lingers in
the way of vulgah trade ” from the less-tavoured
class that rake in the dollars over the counter.
The question was, as may be imagined, a most
difficult one to grapple with. The opinions of the
13 jurors selected to sit on their fellow-citizens and
decide as to the ladies who should be asked to
grace the fandango were variedl; but keeping in
view the unwritten law that tradespeople should
be rigidly excluded, the names of several fair and
fascinating young creatures were reluctantly,
perhaps, but not the less firmly, struck off
the muster-roll. Among the discarded spm~
sters were the daughters of a local chemist,
a herculean youth of some 60 or more summers,
and one of the committee happened to be a dash-
ing young medico practising in the town. It is
whispered that the gentlemen referred to had had
some slight difference of opinion on a Previous
occasion, and the .pillmaker being highly Incensed
by the action of the committee determined to
wreak vengeance swift and strong on the person
of the doctor. Next day the sawbones was visit-
ing one of his patients at the Hose Hotel, when
the irate chemist, with greenhide whip in hand,
“ laid ” for the doctor, and, as the latter emerged
from the front door, he, without the slightest
warning, was saluted with a stinging out of the
weapon across the face, followed by several more
on different parts of the body. He then grappled
with his assailant, but the latter threw him down,
and continued the assault until the spt ctators in-
terfered and separated them. This is in brief the
little tale. The battle, however, will be fought
over again In the Supreme Court, where the doc-
tor intends to seek reparation for the Indignity to
which he has been subjected. The pulse ot society
at Albury is beating pretty fast at present, and
other members of the ball committee are seriously
considering the advlsableness of getting armour-
plated in view of contingencies.
■ ♦ *
The Sydney “divorce season'’ has this year
been unusually brilliant and successful, owing,
no doubt, to the popularity gained for it by Sir
Alfred. His Honor Judge Windeyer granted
“ decrees” with delightful suavity. One of the
parties was fined no less a sum than £4oo sterling
for his share. This seemed to satisfy him, for his
name is not again mentioned in the programme.
Ah I it is a wicked world, made up of decrees nisi
and decrees that are not.
♦ * *
Hosehill (N.S.W.) races are over—the num-
bers are up—and we can now spot the winners as
though we were on the sporting press. If you ve
never been to Ro-ehill, go next lime. The course
is a charming one, and admirably managed. As
yet, ** sassiety ” has not found It out, consequently
one meets a class of people who do not eternally
crave to have their clothes in print. Some day
Potts Point and Co. will go there, and liking it, go
again, and so render it sufficiently fashionable to
satisfy any toad-eater. But at present it’s merely
a place made to be enjoyed by rational beings. If
a telng wants more than he can see at Kosehlli,
he’s hard to please. The managers have thought
that the public convenience is worth o insidering,
and consequently the space is ample, the s.and
large, commodious, and overlooking a splendid
lawn. Tho catering arrangements greatly to be
commended—Randwlok might take a hint—every-
thing clean, and no stale tarts. Only two drags
turned out, one belonging to Mr. s. Stephen, and
the other occupied by a party of Sydney ladies and
gentlemen. The racing was of a very high order,
and no fatalities have to be recorded, though one
poor fellow got a nasty fall—still he soon re-
covered, and rode Marmion in a winner.
■ ■ •
They were just about the two most beau-
tiful representatives of the always lovely sex, in
Sydney, and as they chatted gaily in tho neat han-
som you would have thought that they were the
closest friends this side of the Equator. But
those who recognised them both wondered
greatly, and were horribly puzzled to account for
their being together under the same cab-roof.
For their habits and reputations were as contrary
as night and day. It happened this way. It was
raining, and Society’s cherished one was waiting
Impatiently for a cab, where cabs seldom
came, when the blemished beauty drove up,
and comprehending the situation offered with
charming courtesy the other half of her
conveyance. None who did not know could
have discovered any reison why that offer
should not have been accepted, and thus pretty
Miss Innocence exposed her jslf to the artillery of
the gossips. But these mistakes always will be
made as long as Phrynes are beautiful, dress well
and in good taste, and retain the manners,
although not the habits, of the virtuous; that is,
unless society in Sydney follows the lead of Mel-
bourne (where the naughty people have all the
nice things) and abandons the hansom cab to the
demi-monde. It is very hard that ladies should
have to eschew hansoms; nor does it seem right
that the mere possession of virtue should be a bar
to this pleasurable means of locomotion, but
likely enough this will have to be done, and then
another luxury will be in the exclusive possession
of the ungodly. There la one lady, at least, who
will never, no never again, be locomoted by a cab
unless she makes certain about the other oc-
cupant. * a •
The Sydney Grammar School sports were
ever popular, but last Saturday they attracted an
unusually large crowd out to Moore Park. The
Governor was half expected to attend, but a vase
of flowers was the sole occupant of the vice-
regal box, and sad disappointment dwelt on many
a prettily-painted face in consequence. One of
the chief attractions on the lawn was a piquant
little lady dressed in all-brown, with an enormous
brown bow round her neck, and which tailed
down to the hem of her skirt. A young girl in
ruby velvet dress and jockeylcap to ma‘ch, the
fiipe of which was coquettlshly t lied sky-ward,
was rather a pretty picture. Several tailor-made
dresses were worn, a mixture of dark green and
gray heather cloth being particularly chic. The
music provided was anything but first-class, but
nobody seemed to mind much, for, after all, they
had come to see and not to hear.
* * *
On June 21, the date fixed for the Mayor
of Sydney’s grand banquet to celebrate the jubilee
year of Queen Victoria, the “ Lady Mayoress
will, says the Sydney D.T., “holl a reception.
Miss Young is a charming hostess, and in every
way worthy of her present position, but then she
isn’t “Lady Mayoress.” Perhaps, however, on
that “ auspicious ” day there will be flashed across
the cable the magic words: “ Arise, Sir Jmn
Youngl” Stranger things have happened within
our recollection. The Mayor is just now praying
very hard that he may not be made a C.M.G.
* * *
The Hon. J. B. and the Misses Watt enter-
tained a large circle of friends on Friday evening,
31st inst.
• » •
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell, of Etham, Darling
Point, have issued invitations for a large ball on
the 36th inst.
» * *
Mrs. and the Misses Archie Cox. of Darling
Point, have invited a few friends to dance on the
ST th inst.
* * •
A gentleman engaged a railway carriage
for the Rosehlll races on Saturday last. There s
nothing remarkable in that. But on the return of
his party to the Granville platform, after the
events, as his lady and male fiiends were about to
enter their carriage for the return journey, it was
rushed by a number of well known men from a
Sydney Club, who insisted, even after every polite
explanation had been made, in refusing to vacate
in favour of those who had paid for it. Well*,,
did you say, “ there’s nothing remarkable in that.
v * *
At the opening of the North Shore cable
tramway on Saturday, “Near the intersection of
Mount-street with Miller-street, and within the
boundary of the borough of St, Leonards, had
been erected a lofty triumphal arch, from the up-
permost parts of which floated a number of
bright-coloured flags. This arch was used to dis-
play a large banner, upon which there were in
bold letters the words ‘Thrice Welcome Lord
Carington to the Borough of St. Leonards proper.
Reception committee were evidently very lax in
carrying out their duty; otherwise, at the other
end of the route there should have been a similar
arch with flags bearing the words. Thrice Wel-
come to St. Leonards Improper,’ .being typical of
the conduct of the authorities of the three other
North Shore boroughs, who, by thtlr very discor-
dant bickerings nearly spoilt the harmony of the
demonstration at Little Pedllngton.
♦ * *
If you want a very impassioned love-song,
set to gracefully flowing music, get “ Only I and
You,” by Francisco Berger. It is for a tenor or
baritone voice, and is published in Aflat for the
former and in E flat for the latter. But if you
want to sing a really pretty song with your sister
or another fellow’s, “ In Strawberry Time will fit
you if you can get any tune out of your voice.
The words are by Ashby Sterry, who has written
80 many charming things about girls that they all
ought to love him—only Mrs. S. and her mother
might be on guard. Tae music Is by iOtto Booth:
no relation to the general of that name.
A nice children’s party was given on
Thursday last, at “Marianne.” Victoria-street,
Darllcghurst, to celebrate the birthday of Miss
Julia Nelson. About 33 little mites attended and
enjoyed themselves to their tiny hearts' content.
The members of the Glebe Rowing Club
are the first to “ catch the water,” their seventh
annual ball eventuating at Sydney Town Hall on
Friday, 4th June. The committee are determined
this ball shall excel all its predecessors, and in
order to ensure its being select no tickets can be
purchased from anyone excepting members of
the committee, or the hon. sec , Mr. H. R. Cox.
• * *
W© lately saw a very pretty dress. It was
a sea-green-grey velvet, artistically draped, and
with some silk of the same lovely tint about it,
with capote to match.
• * •
At Millais’ Gallery, we read, Mrs. Langtry
wore a long sealskin coat covering her gown,
which was trimmed with beaver. Her bar was
a very high one, covered with thick embroidery,
and trimmed with a few feathers rampant. Miss
Fortescue’s figure showed to advantage in a beau-
tifully-cut coat of rough brown cloth, trimmed
with broad bands of black galloon. This contrast
of Drown and black is one of the latest inspirations
of the Parisian modiste,
* * *
A remarkable instance of a hair-splitting
Intellect came under notice lately. It appears that
Lent has lately come and gone. A lady was pre-
sent at a ball given during this hot-cross-bun
season. Said a friend, “ Won t you dance?” “ Not
a round dance, thank you—it’s Lent. But 111 dance
a square one with you.” And she did.
* • *
When “Mrs. Maopherson was born” young
men asking young ladies to dance slid the right
foot behind the left, placed one hand upon their
breast and made a low and sweeping bow. The thing
was rather neat and took immensely. But to-oay,
the young masher saunters up to the young lady
with his hands In his pockets—looks at her feet for
a moment to see that they are of a safe size and
not likely to injure fcim—says “Dance?” clutches
her programme, puts a few pot-hooks on it, turns
away, pot-hooks her name, and clears off to “ kiss
the baby.”
• * *
If you want to read something particu-
larly sweet, witty, and true, get “Rudder
Grange,” by Frank R. Stockton. It is now pub-
lished in the small handy form that is becoming
so familiar to us in the volumes of Howell sor
Henry James. If you have not a delicate sense of
humour, got somo other book —Sladen s Poems,
for instanoe-or any stuff that would strike even
a Scotchman as funny.
« e •
A social writer describes a lady as wearing
“silver jetl” What is “ silver jet ? ” Perhaps it’s
made in King-street.
The snug little oligarchy which rules at
Sydney University has struck out in yet a new di-
rection. It has had printed a circular-letter in-
tended for certain applicants intimating that
tickets for the commemoration cannot be given.
We suppose if the tickets were distributed fairly
even to the graduates and undergraduates the
members of the oligarchy would not have their 30
or 4) to distribute to their followers.
• « * #
The first dance of the season, given by the
bachelors of Murrurundl, came off last Friday
night at Brodie House. All went we 11.... Hillston
was gay the other night, when a ball was given
in the local Town Hall by members of the Lachlan
Racing Club.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Glebe Rowing Club Ball, Sydney Town
Hall June 4.
North Shore R.O. Annual Ball, West’s
Rooms June 11
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— First and foremost let me tell
you about the delightful moonlight serenade given
on board the s s. Brighton by the Sydney Metro-
polltan Lledertafcl one night last week. I should
say there were about 1000 people on the ship
nearly half of them ladles. The night was bright
and clear, though a trifle shivery, and one end of
the boat was lighted up with numerous Chinese
lanterns, which, however, paled into insignificance
beside the brilliant moon; still they gave the
steamer a ga'a appearance, and attracted tne at-
tention of the shore folk who crowded down to
the water’s-edge to see and hear.
It would be perfect nonsense to assert that the
singers were at their best, for no voices c.n stand
two hours’ work In the open air with impunity
therefore. I must admit that, as the evening wore
on, the items were less and less able to compare
with those we are accustomed to hear from tne
society in the Masonic Hall. But the charm of
novelty covered a multitude of defects, and the
promoters of this serenade deserve all praise. The
instrumental selections were very fairly given,
though the society never did profess any strength
in the orchestral line, but you may be sure when I
tell you that Mr. Alpress was amongst the Players
they were pretty right. A capital cornet duet
played by Messrs. Gresly and M’Mahon was entirely
satisfactory, the cornet, you know, being an in-
strument which always sounds well on the water.
The “Turkish Patrol,” too, was played very
sweetly, and for a moment we .thought we were
having “ Fun on the Bristol instead of fun on
the Brighton. As you may remember, this march
ia always introduced into Sheridan 8 famous play,
now on again at the Gaiety.
We lingered around the “ Nelson ’’ a good while,
and succeeded in inducing the Admiral to leave
his wine and show himself. We oouldnt dis-
tinguish his features, of course, but we knew it
was he by the enormous expanse of shirt-front
displayed. He seemed to enjoy the music, and was
lavish with his aPP'ausp. By the way, I don t
believe sailors, as a rule, have “uch respect tor
music; at all events the captain of the Brighton
hasn’t, for just as the last notes of the pretty part
song “ Absence ” were being sung, he shouted out,
“Hi there, get out of the way with that pulling
boat, unless you want to be run into! It seemed
such a shame to spoil a good thing, but my
cavalier said the captain was quite right, as duty
ought always to come before sentiment, rmaiiy,
although the arrangements of the affair were a
little muddled, the outing Proved most enjoyable
to all, and it strikes me very forcibly that unless
the parent society bpstlrs Itself in varying the
monotony of its entertainments it will never be
able to keep pace with its enterprising offspring.
It wasn’t all joy up at Grafton upon the occa-
sion of the Governor’s recent visit, I hear, for at
the ball only a chosen few of the ladies were pro-
(Continued on next page.)


Persons whose hlood is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
i< Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. . Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, WM Hunter-street
Sydney.*
r Neither trickery or competition has been
able to affect the reputation of Wolfe’s Schnapps
The MODERN ARTFURNISHING
FOUEHOY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEEE AGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenaeum Club.
T
HB6E RECENTLY-ERECTED MAGNIFICENT PILE OF BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN PITTED
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OP
ART FURNITURE
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
the Quality of the Goods Is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a Minimum,
as the arrangements entered into by JONES, LAWSON BROS., and CO. with the Leading Manu-
facturers of Great Britain aqd the Continent are of such a nature that they are enabled to effer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LE33 THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
JONES. LAWSON BROS., and CO. effer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at Astohisbxnglt
Low Pmc»s, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
reason of great cost, from enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been specially-fitted up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MANSIONS FURNISHED
On the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contract or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception cf intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Castlcreagh-stroat.
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Place.
HORDERN'S
ONTHB
Brickfield. SUL
01 STAY MI DORSET DEPARTMENT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Peee of Chaugb.
/(?
C- D
m
Gr)
t\r>
i;0
w
>
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. Bd., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. fid., Bs. fid., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s fid
EDWAD HORDERN AND f ONS, 666 and €C6 F 'Meld Hill.
n .—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and oarelnl attention.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
DJREC T SUPPL Y ASSOC/A TION
Is NOW OPEN at
673 GEOKGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, SO per cent, less than
fydney prices.
Direct from the European manufacturers to
tne Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 0/6. 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, *5/, 30/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality: The German-Anglo, In wood box, 31/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
a >
3
V
i()J
a
9
§
i:l
B
AnnnßniANS *t7/6,i«/6 12/6.15/. 17/6.
AUIiimUIAN& )21/ ., *V-, 30/-,40/-, to £6
Speciality : The m'niature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 43/-.
10/6. 15/-. 20/-, 25/-. 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin case, with bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS, »* 4 °-' s °fe g/S. 108 ' 139 -
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “ Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 13 IQ 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Speciality: The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, la case, by
best English maker
..50/-
THE BYHHPHONETTEI
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
io “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Nigger Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
k'slarptiaWiOip
MUSIC ! MUSIC I MUSIC I
300,000 copies New and Popular Music, published
at 3/-, 4/-, an 1 5/-, sold at 91. per copy.
£5 Worth of Music for £ll
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages.
seated to his Excellency, and, In consequence,
kept aloof at the further end of the room from
their less fortunate companions. But Lord Car-
Ington, who soon perceived how the wind blew,
spoilt It all by very properly demanding an intro-
duction to every lady present.
As a matter of course, the mean proportions of
ydney Government House ballroom necessitate
the invitations being very limited, but there Is
great discontent amongst the one-time frequenters
of Government House balls, owing to the fact that
not once have their names been Included in the In-
vitations. lam much afraid there is a great deal
of favouritism being practised by—well,some alieg e
the private secretary, but I really can’t say for
certain. All I know is that a certain family up at
Moss Yale, who are very intimate with Lady
Carington, and who frequently gave children’s
parties during the summer, at which the little
Caringtons were always present, have never once
been Invited to the Government House socials.
This seems strange, does It not? I don’t for a
moment suppose that the lady in question would
come all the way from Moss Vale merely to be
present at one of these pleasant, but rather hum-
drum, socials, but she might at least be given the
option of ref a sing—might she not ?
The flag on the “ Kettle Estate ” has been at
half-mast for the last few days out of respect to the
memory of one of the tenants. Now, this tenant
wasn’t by any means an ordinary Individual,
though she was an old maid. You must remem-
ber Miss Havlsham, in Dickens’ “ Great Expecta-
tions ? ” Well, Miss D—’s life was a fae simile of
this romantic lady’s. About 40 years ago she was a
beautiful girl and was to be married upon a cer-
tain day, but when everything was ready, some-
thing happened to the bridegroom. I forget
exactly what; anyhow, he didn't turn up, so the
ceremony didn’t come off. Miss D , who was a
lady of strong character, secluded herself from
that day till last Thursday, when she learned the
great secret of death. The wedding breakfast 40
years old is still there, in the dining-room, crum-
bling to pieces, just the same as the poor body of
the broken-hearted lady now is. Fancy living
only for the sake of a memory fordO long years!
I don’t think we are so constant now-a-days, dear
—I don’t, really. I forgot to say the lady died
enormously wealthy, and yet she was content to
live in the same old house which held that grisly
uneaten meal and all sorts of past memories for
the best part of her life. I often thought her
fortunate in possessing a landlord who respected
her whim, and allowed her to remain in peace,
and nurse her sorrow, when, as most people
know, he could have derived more than twice the
income from the place by pulling the old home
down and building on its site a more .modern
dwelling. But even landlords have hearts, some-
times. My maid, who is a dreadful little gossip,
tells me she has heard from the deceased lady’s
servants that she spent most of her time writing
a book. What would I not give to see this same
book ! Her last wishes were that no one should
f aze upon her after death, and none but her own
aithful domestics should attend her funeral; and
lastly, that her effects, most of which have been
packed up for the last 10 years, should be for-
warded to her relatives in England. Now, after
this, don’t say we live in an unromantlo age.
From what I have latety heard, I should not
imagine the life of a Sydney shop-girl one to be
envied. At all events, I know for a fact, that at
one large establishment the unfeeling proprietor
not merely denies them a fire to boil water for their
mid-day cup of tea, but only gives them a very
few minutes to run around the streets in order to
obtain it from more kindly-disposed people. 1
. believe, however, that the other day he was
generous enough to express his willingness to
allow a fire to be built in the establishment pro-
vided the girls found their own wood and coal, as
he didn’t quite see his way clearly to justify such
a piece of extravagance on bis part. Poor man I
His income is only a few thousands a year, and the
fire would probably (to do it lavishly) cost about
as many shillings a week I And yet these girls pre-
fer such a life to that of a pampered lady’s-maid
or upper house-maid 1
You ask me in one of your letters if “ Hortense
de Vasacour,” who writes a London letter for a
Melbourne society paper,is thesame who writes let-
ters under another vom de plume for a well-known
English society paper. Well now, dear, how am I
to know ? That the letters are word for word the
same is perfectly true, and I agree with you that
it is very tiresome when you take both papers and
find one a partial repetition of the other; even if it
be only in the case of the letter. 1 asked a grumpy
old journalist yesterday what he thought of it,
but he replied very curtly, "A case of scissors”;
which left me just as wise as ever, for how can
scissors have anything to do with newspapers?
You must apply to someone cleverer than I, dear,
to unravel this puzzle about these letters.
Almost all the English papers condemn the so-
called “Rational Dress” system. A leeture was
recently given in the Westminster Town Hall,
presided over by Lady Harberton, and a number of
rationally (?) clad dames paraded up and down the
platform during the lecture, in order that the
audience might see how far superior the divided
skirts, &o„ were, in both convenience and beauty,
to their own garments made by Dord, or Scott
Adie. But the audience wasn’t convinced, and I
am assured upon the best authority that it would
be difficult to imagine anything less picturesque
than the appearance of these ladies in their wide—
really you must guess what, short flat tunics, and
wide, shapeless, flat heeled boots, fit only for
navvies. In short, the Rational Dress Society
made little or no headway by this lecture. For my
part I don’t see what there is to grumble at in our
present style of dress, that is to say, if we could
only persuade ourselves to moderate our high
head-gear, discard “improvers,” and tone down our
high-heeled boots a little.
' It appears to me that the dress worn by the
Japanese ladies is something similar to that aimed
at by Lady Harberton. It is decidedly loose and
uncomfortable-looking, and their foot-dses are
simply atrocious. I must confess to being partial
to the style of dress which gives some idea of the
figure. The Japanese dresses are gorgeous enough
for anything, but no one with a grain of con-
science can call them shapely looking.
I think the Queen must be out of favour with
the clerk of the weather lately, for anything more
dismal-looking than the sky last Monday, the 24th,
can hardly be imagined. It was anything but the
proverbial “Queen’s weather,” and, indeed, it
was so very untempting that we did not even
venture out to the Eastern Suburbs Athletic
sports at the Association Ground. I was truly
sorry afterwards that we hadn’t defied the weather
and attended, for I hear from all thejboys that they
were really “tip top.”
Some good fairy has this moment sent me a huge
parcel of Nicholson’s newest songs and music,
which my fingers are fldgcttlng to try over, and
which must be my excuse for abruptly sub-
scribing myself . ,
Your ever loving
MAB.
P.S.—I quite forgot to tell you that Mrs. Atkin-
son is to make her debut in opera bouffe next Fri-
day night, at the Ooera House. She takes the part
of Mademoiselle Lange (in " Madame Angpt ”) and
we are all going in a body to see her. Won t she
look pretty I
M.


Prosecute the Swindlers ! I
If when you call for American Hop Bitters
(see green twig of Hops on the white label and
Dr. Soule's name blown in each bottle) the
vendor hands out anything but American
Hop Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor
as you would a viper ; and if he has taken
your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud, and sue him for damages for
the swindle, and we will reward you liber-
ally for the conviction.
“ I Have Suffered.
With every disease imaginable for the last
three years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, recommending
“ Hop Bitters ” to me,
I used two bottles !
Am entirely cured and heartily recom-
mend Hop Bitters to every one.
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
Counter citing Proves Superiority
“Although counterfeiting is one of the
greatest crimes againt the business ®f any
country and in many cases—
“ Destructive of health and life!”
“ It proves beyond a doubt the”
“Superiority”—
Of the article counterfeited ;
As no inferior article is ever counterfeited
Proof ot this is found in the great number
in
“Australia, England, France,
“Germany, India, Belgium, Canada and the
U.S.—
Of counterfeits of the great remedy,
“ Hop Bitters,”
Whose name and merits are so well known
the world over that it is a
“Shining mark and favorite prey
“ For counterfeiters ! ! !”
Beware of all that does not have a green
cluster of hops on the white label.
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule’s
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud and sue him for damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
CDST FRIGE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
Cha BEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Mi T. M‘ks SI Ci.,
00 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
they may be favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms
To "arrive—l6o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various sizes, in
all the well-known brands: Curry Powder, In
tins and bottles ; Pickles and Indian Sauces
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry ana Mulligatawney Pattes, Bombay
Duck, &o.
Letters and orders to te addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET.
d
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &o.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakex,
1 Llltle Colllng-strcet, Ea«tt, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on sppl'cition
H
OLLOVTAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and BTO MACH, they may he used with
perfect confidence hy young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvcdfems virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxironn st., London
tgjr- Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
a ireet, London, they are spurious.
fd
LIMITED,
356 George-strootp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FIANOB, ORGANS
and
M U SI 0
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
BAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed."
Catalosrues & Prices on Application.
«. H. PALING ft Co.
SSO 6eorie*»treet, Sydney.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
Jones, Lawson Ik, & Co.,
39 CABTLEREAQH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £55 Iss,
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON”BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAQH STREET,
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeepef should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
f
FLEAS, FLI ES, BEETLES MOSdU
COCKROACHES.AS'rRA' 1 AND
AT .IHESAME 1 iMt UUtTt
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR
ANIMALS
d
"5P A iV
fd
FELTON* CRIMWADE.V.C?
Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPART
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Onr Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Anv enauiry about Land, &c„ from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company. City Auction Mart, Queen-
etreet, Brisbane.
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or miners substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
turv : so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre*
pared preparation, and the result of
nerience. They overcome the worst form of
Ifiseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidney®-
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
imna ediate relief.
454 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALLS
TRADE MARK-" TONIC NERYINB.”
a SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB lor, Nor-
voue and General Debility, and all complaint*
chat bp ring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
ippetlte. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Auaplsints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
k-a Bv its tonic and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vlteUalng ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour t* the whole system.
Price, is. Bd., or 86s. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. bAaRSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemists. 101-6 Mark^t-st.,Sydney. imi-
tations Illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUBIO, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arte, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 35 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music—Thirty shillings worth of nr-sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Musics, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Plano Pieces. Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music. Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS or Inprise every kina of Literature-Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
♦ orks. Books cm Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &3.; and a choice library of Reli-
gious work*, by standard authors-
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
ftisd Toft Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco. Leather,
and Calf, profusely Illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
A CCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order , . ,
LETTER PAPER, Envflopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
Card Caves, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and descrinticn
ARTISTS' MATERIALS- Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
■ILLiAH BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
G
ENTLBMEN’B CLOTHB.S REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
IVTERVOUB DEBILITY CURED.-L r man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fre h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, ccntala
Ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
i for six penny stamps. Address-: HOPE, P. 0., Box
1 166, Sydney.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Quean,
H.R.H. ihe Pr/nce of Wales.
the King of the Netherlands.
f
HJ.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales:
TKAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE
B
28
A
T7IOR Softening and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
X? Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
As a Leather Preservative It Is Invaluable—pre-
vents It cracking, and renders It waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping In perfect order
Firearms, Machines, &c. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
US Tork-street, Sydney.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as fellowsS EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARBHAM, Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CJ±4
0
VP
4?
PATENT
s
LLS
PI
$
4o
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin .disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Puls, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos’es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like! “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beeoham’s Pills have the largest gale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coiighs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
yffiicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham s
Cough Pills a trial. .
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed. , ....
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery. ....
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the' proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d,
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—full directions are given with each box.
The water now in the Queanbeyan F iver is
not fit to drink, and Farrell, the brewer, has drawn
up a form of prayer In verse that the drought may
continue there
“Prayers have gone up for rain in Forbes and
Bourse,
From Yass, Coonamble, Albury and Hay;
In every convent, chapel, church, and kirk.
Each pious soul has knuckled down to pray,
And warp the judgment of the weather clerk,
Whose drowsiness the fertile showers delay.
Oh, grant them, Lord, a deluge; but, down here
We want it not. We’re well content with beer.”
Latest quotations Cardinal Meran, who
is on a visit down South, reports: Bungendore
confirmations, fair supply fc r yard. Piety, fair to
medium. Devotion, prime lots quitted at satisfac-
tory rates. In Queanbey an large procession -
four-horse drag; good paying crowd. Piety market
splendidly supplied and flr.it class quality. Con-
tributions satisfactory—some small lots to come in
to be forwarded to Sydney. Devotion unparal-
leled. From local Aqe glean that the clergy here
r egard “with a sincere satisfaction the additional
brilliancy your exalted rank has shed over the
Homan Catholic church in the Australian colonies.’’
Confirmations numerous. Building sites selected
lor churches, convent and parsonage in good pay-
ing spots with view to railway. Handsome collec-
tion. Shall work this end of the diocese clean out
this trip. Left several very substantial blessings
behind, and patted 313 children on the head. Surely
the Lord is with us this trip.


d
02b
<7\
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
CtmcußA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Outicura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
GUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Beat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
The “UOUIS"
VELVETEEN.
fd
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST free OH
application.
f
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil&Miik
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO.. LIM, LONDON.
Important to Mothers SNurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fiftyper cent, ofthesolids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. i
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
d
w
fO
ol
liEßlti
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED. ATALL CHEMISTS IK]
lO&t ZOozBOTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCES t
fd
f
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved Itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D , F.C.S., &o. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MA ASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for f»ir or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bbos.
E. Pbossbr & Co., Sydney.
ritHß BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGB-STREBT.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commeroiai
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
MDE. DE NOUYELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Bold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co , Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Linen Q-loss
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS"
ORIGINAL
£S HUM! BALES!
PACKED in CANY and INSURED against
|3 f~ Carriage paid by mail ail over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
JCS LADY’S BALE.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Bit. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOYBB.
On receipt of Bs. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of *5.
IBs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
full Instruction for self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS.
166 Oxford Street. Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £6 Bales of Drapery
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country are either directly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &c., are among the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no symptoms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
DUTCHES, FEHON 4 CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South. Wales and Queensland.
mßmms
DESSKNCEopLIFK
He only infallible remedy for
i jr/ERybifs JjebiLi jyT
THERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It la to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in Its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bis existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enleylng Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relleLand perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & .CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
f.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC i.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, AURNS. SCALDS, & c and
aken Internally cures DIARRHtEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other i uterus aches
vnd pains. ——
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole prokxtor,
MELBOUENIi AND SIDNEY,
PAINT


Bir Alexander Stnarf
Torlc while on his
subject of
this colony
Torit Hnili
assistance
,nhd .New M
- was interviewed at New
way to England on the
laying a Submarine cable between
and dan Francisco. The New
ivd Express thus reports his an-
“ We are trying to form a plan, with the
of thy Government, Che Hawaiian
South Wales, for that purpose-
Tha plan proposed is for the three
Governments mentioned to lay tha cable by
advancing the money, 10,000,000d01. This sum
will be sufficient, and the Governments must
agree to pay 6 per cent, on this capital annually
to keep the cable up. It the 6 per cent, makes
a big jnrplus, then that Sum to be devoted to
. buying a new cable.
understand that the only remaining obstacle is
•be uncertain attitude of the Australian colo-
nies.
/i'V/vy a AVLt-Kj/y fi/vD * ///H-f
77/f //rr/-rvD£ CaiOA/'S 5
/J /VA rr/y/? A LLy
OrfCf/? -r/i/rf
I tir%f? 7 ? ///Af " ■ - * rMrrjL&ty&s a?o 06/r, ' /D „ M/? r/M~
% • -So£//?mu , /ft /tr 7y/F//ro jy&jr/i/ ro//o £6J(
//r/f£>£/? "O/vtt/f £Ao(ff #° r yf
r/o/v or crr/r/U- //* 7 rf^yl r ”
rfwt*
d
fd
f
rjpf/s SrfLE^SSoooooo
At the opening of the East St.
Town-hall, (Sir Henry Partes said, with refe-
rence to the North Shore bridge, that Wheh
Sir John Fowler visited the colonies he was the
guest of the Engineer for Railways, who resides
at North Shore, and became so interested in the
proposed bridge connecting St. Leonards with
Sydney that out of mere love for his profession
he caused surveys and examinations to be made,
and beldre leaving Sydney he produced a plan of
one of the most beautiful structures it wap
possible to conceive. Before leaving Sydney
SiT J. Fowler had promised him (Sir
Henry) to send out full drawings and
Specif! cations, and now he had received
word, that in the course of a few months these
drawings, &c., world arrive in Sydney, when
the whole world would be made aware of this
magnificent prososal The work would be
carried out at a comparatively small expense, or
infinitely below anything yet thougni of. He
(Bit Hoary ) made this statement with the full
consent of Sir John Fowler,
jp Spoke
Fowler. - ///Tmwivg
Card uras /&
'//bur I cu iff
£t~ar)d attfyy
nub f /and a?id
hudd/e
(«•& s ee 'ff ..
a Cop si cl era not).
~-' -- ■■iJ!?”“ > Tllltli . . /Sf*
Cartoons on Current Topics.
dfdf
