

The
Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
pvOE
W,
&
PROOF
Owe'CS
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, ->Limtd„
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., EIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
513 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
6
IRONMONGERS
512
C»
V
o
%
REG?
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Bavis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fine-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C.
WILLIAM
.NG, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and.
FINISH.
Used by All the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
. 1
it
B
- -I
-
m
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS,
i
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Gall and Inspect.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHIELING SCARFS.
rcto
m
<o
i
M OAETHY <Sc CO.,
TOBACCO MIE^OECAAISrX’S.,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
/T-i? Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices!
mmm
SAue
wZ
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label-on every bottle
bears their Signature thus—
<o
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
kttJrJ L hiru n , d PRLRII Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Mapper Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse and
Black London , <gr-y,, fry. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents: Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G, C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of ~ _
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING *
RAILWAY and Other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MIJV-
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS*
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
> - -
ai
MACHINERY^IRON YARD.
BAR, PLATE,
SHEET and PERFORA'I
SHEET and ftoQP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
DRATKD ZINC t TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD | OILS.i ‘ I
I.IXI/ trvr/l until, rt-nrii it • nTTI.i t l>l\Tn rITMIIR Tir’d. Ilf ITTIIJ^?
BRUSH WARE.; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES) BUILD ■
MONGERY, ROLLED II GIRDERS; PORTABLE) FIXED; And SEMIE-IXED ENGINE®. MMNa
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS; STEAM And other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
acYgHlll/S LOT H AtilVlJCjlt, JK*L/JL3ili 1 , illlU DllU VV i\ O VululhiyL\>u\ 1. S^jXJ
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PAT EX'
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & ( ' o '’
Head Wavohouso
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores- -
■■ .
London Office -
* oi YORK STREET,
- HAY and ENGINE STREETS. vlU 30
« • * HARBOUR STREET) DARLING ■
- - 85 GRACECHURCH STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
rW
°'*sonTso^
S YD NET
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
r-- 1
mm*
T OBA CCjL
ftffin
DIXSON & SONS, Sydney, p° 3sess f fJ * c liU ' goSfc , “Seri^ 1
’ J <J ’ Tobacco, and consume more Ami-
factory in the southern hemisphere. , (-‘u'f 'i'°
&t YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson s " -' -x
y l :,» v
m
%
ntf
k
f*U
WN
OTS
w
LAW
15/-
TfifiM wAi
i*
\
:
m
& .
month
\V
WA
it
HJJT3
fist
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georgk-street.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSOBTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennossy’s * Cognag
Square Gin ... . .;
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart d 0...
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids ... 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Alb, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Harmey attends personally on l%cty patrons.
vt44Ct
j&rM
sdf
machine^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
NEWEsgICNS
highest finish
LOWEST COST
CF
ef
0*
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOR
0H
111, PITT STREET,
k»nc


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 344.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4. ISSC,.
Price., 6d.
"THE CELEBRATION OF THE
CENTENARY.
“THE PROPOSALS OF THE GOVERNMENT.
“In the Legislative Assembly last night, Sir
Patrick Jennings, in accordance With his pro
mise to Sir Henry Parkes, made a statement in
regard to the mode in which the Government
propose to celebrate the centenary of New South
Wales. It will be seen that the suggestions made
the other day by Sir Henry Parkes are to a cer
tain extent to be carried into elicet,
“ Sir Patrick Jennings said 4 lt is not my in-
tention to go beyond a skeleton or sketch of the
programme which I have made a memorandum
of, thinking it the most appropriate way of cele-
brating what will be the most important event in
our history—the celebration of our birth. The
Government have, of course, been inundated
with suggestions with regard to what is conceived
to be the best way of signalising this event. The
House, as we are aware, has been moved by pro-
positions that have been brought before it from
time to time as to what is conceived to be the
best way of signalising this event. We acknow-
ledge the great importance of the event. We
acknowledge that everything done should be
worthy of the occasion, and we, as a Govern-
ment, have endeavoured to give that considera-
tion to this question, which is undoubtedly one
of great importance, and I shall now proceed,
without attempting to make any reference
further to the great importance of the occasion—
for I do not conceive it to be the time to make a
speech about that —to inform the House what are
the intentions and what are the wishes of this
Government in order to signalise the celebration
of the event in question.’
Daily Paper.
Sir Patrick and His Centenary “Skeleton.”
T
q)e a sen from s 23 YC * fo yty
i /Ox , _ _ /
-77*"
7%ati&riouy religious denominations
. Jtoutd beintited fo
\ Cos ion by tyeeial and a/?/>ro/>riaC(r
\\ tfertticos.
sd
_ / ‘Z& 0/7 tf/ \*r V
*>* I<s
W"r y
pr '7' / zeS &t<)arcZecZ~~~~
W /or Co/?7poS/f, 0
apZ>ro/D7icn?_p fc -*V
T^eoCz Cff/O/? a??
\ street?
■ ' (Ft?*
a*!?
r
, 'W
*£¥
r- ~ T /
YeCe fiVoy ’gfuefa
r an d Cererv ndp rermerf^yn.
~^ e ffirp r ?cfaL
+ime 0 <
Gf Grand f7rt £f7/-
£7 fion-
77 S7>anr-\2saf-f-Je in fi/A/cfr Safe .
*suri/f'yo?' of <2 Z7o/7cer-yS s**/#/?/
c/rfofer Sfr/7 a reccj
f/yh~f~ //? fa-r/r <X 77? o*7 <sAozc 7d<6 <? tty?for fo J -


THE BULLETIN.
PIIiLISHI’I) ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance.)
Ter annum Os. Od.
Half-yearly 0 12s ' °‘ l ’
Quarterly .. .. • • •: 0 6s. ( •
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
.1. M. lIA KOINE,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £l.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
orrespondenee column all contributions submitted whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cotidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 188(5.
The Chinese Invasion of Australia.
The Mongolian in Australia, and especially
in New South Wales, is now on his trial.
Especial notice has been drawn to his
doings, and the result has been to stimulate
the desire to know more about him and his
devious ways, with a view of deciding once
and for all whether he is a desirable tenant
of Australian soil. The balance of evidence
is strongly against him : in Sydney only two
apologists have yet been found for him, and
these two, dealt with in another column,
have but one argument—that, although the
Chinaman is very bad, the Australian is
awful, a species of defence which, besides
being untrue, does little credit to the advo-
cate, and inflicts fatal injury upon the cause.
As we have already pointed out, the average
Chinaman, under present social conditions,
is necessarily a sensual brute. The Aus-
tralian may be immoral, and very often is,
but the typical Chinaman must be. He has
no alternative, for the utter lack of en-
nobling purpose and elevating ideal confines
his every thought to the pleasures of his
body. Married life in accordance with
European custom is a thing impossible : he
is too weak, too dull, and too stubborn in
his own Conservatism to be able to earn
sufficient for the maintenence of a house-
hold.
* * *
He is the product of a peculiar national
system. The oppression of long centuries of
pauperism has enfeebled his sinews, as the
sensual indulgence of many generations of
ancestors has wasted his brain. Enslaved
by the traditions of the remote past, and the
writings of their sages of 20 centuries ago, the
Chinese are unique among nations in that
they have not advanced in thought or
method as they increased in number and
density of population. Elsewhere the pro-
gress of nations has been marked by pro-
gress of science, and art, and extension of
commerce, but China, with an aver-
age of (>OO to 850 to the square-mile
in her best and largest provinces, has not
sought for the means of more easily providing
for the wants of her ever increasing millions.
The appliances of Chinese agriculture are
such as sufficed before the Christian era
dawned upon Europe ; and Chinese com-
merce has not expanded in response to the
requirements of the people. While the num-
ber of lives to be sustained has constantly
increased, the wealth and food sources have
remained as formerly, except for the added
amount of labour employed. The demand
for food, therefore, has constantly risen
above the supply, and as the latter was in-
capable of adequate expansion, the demand
was only partially satisfied. Poverty natur-
ally settled down upon the nation, and de-
terioration of force and character was the
sure result. Thus the lowest classes of
Chinese especially—the classes which, speak-
ing generally, infest Australia —are the living
witnesses of the degrading influence of the
basest of all Conservative systems.
* * *
A brief comparison of the history of the
two peoples thus explains the disabilities
under which the Chinese are placed in their
competition with Australians and Europeans.
And it is because they cannot compete man for
man with the whites that the Chinese are ob-
liged to form themselves into a species of
national trades-union wherever they settle
in foreign lands. They must always act
together and overpower their rivals by mere
Force of numbers : banded together they
can, like the Macedonian phalanx, pass un-
harmed through the lines of the enemy.
Were it possible for them to disperse and
mingle with citizens generally there would
be less harm in the Chinese invasion, for
they might ultimately come to be counted
with the rank and tile of the Australian
people, but all experience of the past and
knowledge of their circumstances, goes to
prove that nothing of the kind is possible.
Mongolians must ever form a colony within
a colony ; it is only by means of such union
that they can defy all penal laws, preserve
their own traditions and customs, and prevail
against their more able competitors in the
labour market. Although such national exclu-
siveness is extremely hurtful to the State, it is
doubtful whether the scattering of Chinese
through the community would not be a still
greater evil. The British nation is a mix-
ture of all European strains of blood, and
in the colonies there is a still further ad-
mixture, but it is questionable whether a
strain of Mongolian blood would give any
superior force or virtue to the community
during succeeding generations.
* * *
Public ignorance regarding the dangers
consequent upon a continued influx of
Chinese, is the worst feature of the case.
Similar ignorance of the Mongolian Octopus
in San Francisco permitted the nuisance to
spread, until, at length, when the resolu-
tion—“ The Chinese must go”—obtained
the full support of nineteen-twentieths of
the people, it was found that the power of
expulsion had passed, and the means of
eradicating the evil still remaining are slow,
uncertain, and in the main, illegal. In that
city the Chinese settled much as they have
done in Sydney ; at first, they only held
leases of their dwellings, but subsequently
acquired freeholds. Deterioration of the
surrounding tenements at once followed,
for men do not like Mongolian neighbours,
and as there was a difficulty in getting
tenants for buildings near the Chinese
quarter, the aliens were enabled to buy up
more houses at a fraction of their former
value, and so the colony spread. No sooner
had the Chinese obtained freeholds than
they began to alter the premises to suit
their own requirements : houses were built
on the roofs of buildings, and deeper cellars
were hollowed out beneath those which had
sufficed for European requirements ; rooms
were multiplied by means of flying floors and
partitions, and rooms were made in balconies
beyond which more balconies and rooms were
built, until the streets were made gloomy by
this reduction of overhead space. Another
“improvement,” subterranean galleries or
passages, connecting each Chinese house
with the others, was effected, so that
now the colony, six blocks long by two broad,
is modelled entirely in accordance with the
ideas of its tenants. The tendency of all
these alterations has been to secure perfect
immunity from all police and municipal con-
trol. Rates are duly paid, but no other
respect is evinced for local law. And from
this Chinese quarter, slave labour stretches
forth a grimy sinewy hand to clutch the
bread for which free and honest men and
women would willingly work. Shoemakers,
laundrymen, cigar-makers, cabinet-makers,
and other tradesmen slave away there in
narrow and pestiferous dens from dawn until
midnight working out their own enfranchise-
ment, and by the price of their freedom
pauperising, and in a manner enslav-
ing, those citizens who formerly were
free. Over 70,000 Chinese now inhabit
this quarter in San Francisco, for hun-
dreds of camps in Arizona have been
broken up by the lawless acts of indignant
citizens, and the refugees from such States
have fled to the stronghold in ’Frisco where
they cannot be disturbed, for a freeholder is
regal in his right of possession. In most of
the United States it is a less sin to assault or
even kill a Chinaman than to steal a cigar
from an American, for juries will rarely con-
vict the perpetrators of outrages on the
Chinese. Jurors seem to consider that, as
these aliens act in systematic defiance of the
law, they are not entitled to the protection
which the law affords ,to those who live in
accordance with its provisions. Boycotting,
violence, and intimidation —these are the
rough remedies which have now been adopted
to a large extent in America, and as long as
the evil exists they will be continued. The
people see that the law is powerless, there-
fore the weapons of savagery are brought
into common use.
* * *
To permit the Chinese to remain as they
are in Australia, or to use half-measures in
dealing with them, is to exercise a forbear-
ance that may be disastrous in its future
effects. Australians now have the power to
expel the Chinese, but so far do not seem to
have the wish : in a few more years they will,
owing to the spread of the evil, acquire the
will, but may then have lost the power.
It is this consideration which makes the ques-
tion one of extreme urgency. A sentimental
objection to treating Chinese differently to
other immigrants to the colonies must not be
allowed to delay action. To all who will live
in accordance with local laws, Australia ex-
tends welcome and protection, but the Mon-
golians do not pretend to obedience of any
laws other than those they bring with them.
Therefore, living in defiance of the law they
have no claim to the law’s protection ; and
just as the right of liberty is denied to the
burglar or other criminal, so also must the
right to remain here be accounted as lost to
the criminal and sensual Chinese.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ajax Skips.
Sydney Daily Telegraph “loyalty to the Em-
pire” has had an ominous relapse. That journal was
more insanely elated over the prospect of Imperial
Federation than any other paper in Australasia
when the world’s peace showed no signs of rupture,
and went to the most absurd extremes in gushing
over the benefits to be obtained by means of a
closer alliance with England. But all that is
changed now as the inconveniences and dangers
of even the existing connection with Great Britain
are shown in strong relief by the possibility of
war, and the D.T. is the first to howl over the
Bulgarian trouble and lament that —
“ The worst part of the matter is that we in Australia, who
do not care the snuff of a candle for the Berlin Treaty or the
Balkan provinces, have to watch the matter with 1 some
anxiety' too.”
And just in the same way the poltroon who had
wildly flourished a flag when it was a popular
thing to do so, might look with “ some anxiety ”
for a commodious cave wherein to hide his
cowardly carcase as soon as danger threatened.
As far as the Sydney Telegraph is con-
cerned, Imperial Federation is a thing to be
advocated in times of peace, and spurned
when its consummation seems to entail aught of
danger. But a few days since the D.T. cry was
for a share in Imperial concerns ; now the same
paper mourns over the disadvantages attaching to
the present limited ipterest we have in the affairs
of the Kingdom. The rumour of war is the touch-
stone by which the sincerity of colonial advocates
of Imperial Federation may bo tested. The
comical and much-commended assertion that Eng-
land and Australia, acting together, could veto
war throughout the world, is not two months old,
but there seems to be no desire now to test the
truth of that, miserable boast. Australia does not
want to start as a policeman of the universe
until that little trouble in Bulgaria is settled. If
there were any truth in that well-advertised boast,
the advance of Imperial Federation is the one
thing necessary to prevent the outbreak of war,
but the D.T. dare not urge such a thing now.
Imperial Federation is a fair-weather question,
useful in times when “loyalty” may be safely
flaunted, but it must be laid aside when storms
threaten, for then all the energies of Imperials of
the D.T. stamp are exhausted in searching with
“ some anxiety ” for a safe and secure place of
shelter. The Telegraph Ajax heroically defies
the lightning until the lightning appears in the
vicinity ; when that happens the heroic Ajax in-
continently skips.
Parkes’ Other Yellow Pup.
The publication of The Bulletin’s article con-
cerning the Chinese in Australia has made the
question a prominent one in the New South Wales
Parliament and throughout the country. Many
letters have been received by us acknowledging
the truth of our descriptions of Chinese habits and
customs, and asserting that the facts were under-
stated. Other correspondents detail instances
within their own personal knowledge of the gross
brutality of Chinese vegetable-hawkers and work-
men. To those who complain, with Mr. Thomp-
son, M.L. A., that our statements did not go far
enough, we can only urge that had we written the
worst of the facts within our knowledge, the
public mind would have recoiled with disgust, and
refused to believe the damning statements which
have been already published. But if the jury of
public opinion has adopted our evidence, it is not
because no special advocates have been heard in
defence. Two such advocates, Sir Henry Parkes
and the Sydney Daily Telegraph—fit pleaders
for such clients —have objected to the popular
verdict. Sir Henry is in an awkward position
with regard to the Chinamen. A few years ago
they were so hateful to him that he passed special
condemnation upon them by imposing a poll-tax.
Now ho asserts in a roundabout way that the
Chinaman is on the whole just about equal to the
European or Australian, and occasionally a little
better. To be consistent, Sir Henry should now
move for the imposition of a £l5 poll-tax on all
English immigrants; but, then, whoever looked
for consistency in Sir Henry Parkes ? Still the
awkwardness of Sir Henry’s position is not
limited to the question of consistency, for he has
been cast upon a political desert from which he
cannot escape. He has called upon the Free-
traders to carry him into the fertile plains of
power, but they are impotent to do so ; he lias
tried to use the divided Orange bigots for the
same purpose, but without avail; and the Jingoes
are too few and feeble to assist him; so it happens
now that he willingly jumps into the baskets of
the Mongolian, whom he formerly hated to the
extent of a £lO poll-tax, with the desperate hope
that John may be able to trot him him out of his
troubles. And the Telegraph wildly follows
Sir Henry—snarls about “hypocrisy demon-
strated by cheap denunciations of the immoral
Chinese,” “cheap morality,” “moral priggish-
ness,” “ cant and pretence of the most nauseous
kind.” These are the terms which, scattered
through the D. T. leader, enable readers to recog-
nise the motives for this now development of
philo-Mongolianism. But, while specially plead-
ing for the Chinese, the 1). T. admits that The
Bulletin’s charges of beastly immorality are
quite true. Yet no denunciation, but rather oom-
mendation, follows the admission, because it is con-
tended that Australians, with their Newtown tra-
gedies and Parliamentary scenes, are worse than the
Chinese. This peculiar defence goes to prove that
we were wrong in considering the attitude of the
D.T. with regard to bestial Chinese to be similar
to that of lawyer and client; the bond is rather
one of brotherly sympathy. The line of argument
is unique, and would, if maintained, exonerate a
Sydney daily from the disgrace of pandering to
cheap-labour capitalists on the ground that Tory
papers pander to the aristocracy. But the raison
d'etre of the D. T. leader is found in the statement
that: “At present there is good reason for be-
lieving that no care is given to the morality of
Chinamen save when there is a fear tliat they are
bringing down the rate of wages.” The public
insult —for it covers the whole populace—would
not be worthy of denial or notice, were it not that
by its means evident inferences may be evolved.
The first of these points to the fact that the libel
is justly applied at least to its writer, and the
second seems to prove what has been above-
mentioned, that the reason why some persons are
willing to welcome the Chinese, with all their
filth and crime, is that the labour of these aliens
does tend to lower wages. The conclusion is
clear that, to the Telegraph mind, all the social
evils for which the Chinese are responsible can be
overlooked so long as the wages of white work-
men are reduced by the competition of law-
breakers’ labour. The appropriateness of such
a view to a paper which periodically pre-
tends to Democracy is such as to require
no comment. It is, possibly, an axiom of D.T.
Freetrade that Labour must be bought in the
cheapest market, although that market may be a
Reynolds-laue bawdy-house, a George-street lot-
tery hell, or a Queen-street fever-den ; but such a
doctrine consorts strangely with the Telegraph's
pretentions to pose as a supporter of Democracy,
Christianity, and Civilisation. No well-regulated
family should he without a copy of the leader
from which we have quoted. After reading it,
and hearing the speech of Sir Henry Parkes,
we are inclined to concede in favour of some of
the Chinese, that with all their sins they are
really not much worse than some of their literary
and political upholders.
■ ♦-
“Where the Carrion is, there will the
Eagles be.”
Mr. Justice Molesworth, who is now Judge of
the Victorian Insolvency Court, isn’t popular.
He hurts ’em all round —insolvents, assignees,
trustees, and lawyers. He doesn’t seem to under-
stand that an insolvent estate is fair pickings for
everybody hut creditors. 'This is a delusion which
may wear off, and which time and experience may
explode. In the meantime, however, its influence
is disconcerting to people who .are accustomed to
the old run of things. Judge Molesworth says
that he doesn’t care what trustees, and assignees,
and other octopi may get out of an estate, outside
his Court; but he isn’t going to let the horse-
leech’s daughter fly around within it. There is
wailing in several respectable circles, as there
always ls when an honest man in power stamps on
rogueries, which, by reason of long usage, have
come to be accepted as legitimate practice. The
Judge knows that in his profession a thousand
rascally rights have sprung from ignoring, or pas-
sively accepting, their original forms of wrong.
The law is propped up by precedents which came
from the womb of chicanery and shuffling. Only
let murder have the go-by for a decade, and it
shall be accepted a virtue. It. is all a matter of
usage and custom. .1 udge Molesworth has shown
that there arc some such practices which cannot
be sanctioned even by force of precedent. Ho
doesn’t permit perquisites. There is to be no
trimming the crown of the joint; no picking
the plums from the pudding. The creditors
• —for the first time on record —are to be con-
sidered first, the loafers last. In the Semitic
circles of the legal profession, the action of the
new judge is pronounced to be scandalous.
Members of this Sanhedrim are largely repre-
sented in the practice in the Victorian Insolvency
Court —a fact readily understood, under the old
fashion of things. But now that Judge Moles*
worth has quietly intimated that no more pluck-
ing or plundering will be permitted, it may be
presumed that the tribe which has hitherto pros-
pered on the misfortunes of insolvents will have
to turn its attention to some other and more
profitable fields of industry. The Judge has
manfully swept away a muck-heap which Her-
cules himself might have hesitated to tackle-
+
“For Charity.”
There is a board or a commission enquiring into
the workings of the various N. S. W. charities,
and rumour whispers, while some few published
facts assort, that the cause of the enquiry is
urgent and terrible. The chief trouble is in the
Benevolent Asylums, with the old men and
women who, having wasted all the strength of
life, bring the lees amd dregs to the public door,
and beg to be taken in. There are a very great
number of them in various of the colonial
asylums, or it would be more correct, perhaps
to say there w r ero, for recently there has been re-
trenchment and curtailment. There are not so
many old paupers —they have been dying —dying,
yes, in the sound old colonial phrase, “ like rotten
sheep. ” There is a record of the Parramatta institu-
tion which should make all the humanity of the
colony shudder. The usual rate of deaths, says
the superintendent, used to be about five per cent.,
but since stimulants and some luxuries were
stopped 154 (something over 30 per cent.) have
died. And then, in official phrases, follows a piti-
ful tale of old folks shivering about the wards and
yards, and actually going out like fires for the
lack of a puff of air or a handful of dry wood.
They have food enough of a sort, but they can’t
bite or digest it. And there is more than this. It
is stated that many of the old people in a certain
asylum recently were suffering from diseased eyes,
and when the doctors proposed to treat them, they
found it utterly impossible because “ their sys-
tems had been brought so low by improper food.”
Do the people of New South Wales want to get
rid of them all before the Centennial, to justify
Froude’s fable about “downcast faces,” and
add to our boast the clause that there is not
a pauper in the land, or is somebody to blame ?
It was an Irish Londoner, grown rich, who cut the
collector short with the reply, “ No, 1 gives you
nothin’, and for why ? Well for this —because no
feller [he qualified the feller] with a white waist-
coat and a gold chain has the spending and the
bossing of my money. I’ll give plenty, but I’ll
give straight.” Is it possible that the New South
Wales public charities, costly enough as we know,
are subverted or perverted by any white-waist-
coated, gold-chained influences, or, to put it in
more elegant though loss expressive phrase, that
the cost of administration swallows up the funds
voted and subscribed for the relief of distress?
The report of the Board will answer this —perhaps.
The Australian Centennial.
If the New South Wales Premier should give up
statecraft and take altogether to the showman’s
business the State would greatly gain. Sir
Patrick can make a good deal out of a great oc-
casion and a blank cheque, and it is supposed he
will have both when the toast of “ The Day we
were Lagged ” comes round. He has already pub-
lished his bill, long enough and big enough to
make titles sprout like mushrooms and blue
devils breed like rabbits ; but yet it is not com-
plete and not so characteristically Australian,
or New South Welsh, rather, as t it might be.
There are a few items which have been quite
omitted, and which it seems our parti-
cular province to supply. As, for example,
now, an adequate record of Parliaments oi
everything in the w r ay of the Clarke-cuot-Lyxl
draw-the-badger business. This might form one
of a series of political charades entitled “How "e
settle grave questions in Australia.” Gibbes.
M.L.A., with the horse-rug about his shoulders
and the waste-paper-basket on his head sitting m
the Speaker’s chair, with Wisdom squatting on
the table, would do for another ; and large prizes
might safely be offered to “the visiting nations
for correct answers as to what was represented.
Also, we should make an effort to show to the
world all the peculiarities of our administration o
justice; we should save up all our fluttering ant
hanging for the centennial, and if judges an
magistrates were active in giving effect to t ie
law, we might have a couple of days which wou t
really vividly recall the good old times and prove
to the world that we are a peculiar people with a
character of our own, and an inherited affection o
the things amongst which we were bred. Sir Patkii;
should consider these two new items for Jus Din.
even if he struck out some now standing, am i


he made his bill repulsive in that way, and
shocking in the eyes of all inhabitants, and so
procured its rejection, would there be any need
for national lamentation ? What will be the end,
as what the beginning of it ? What is the under-
lying hope in the minds of all “influential”
jieoplo ? How do their dreams run ? Centennial
and baronetcies, centennial and earldoms, God wot,
for the heights of human vanity are only com-
parable to depths of human folly. Centennial and
knighthoods, ribands and stars, and letters, more
hideously jumbled than the cat-scores on an old
convict’s back, or the brands on a six-times
“duffed” bullock. This is the crop thoy dream
about, and we shall have to endure, if the
great carnival really booms. And we do
not require, or desire anything of that sort.
We do not want “ Wales” or any of his numerous
relatives. We should like a visit and a word of
advice from the masters of the world, but they
won’t come, and perhaps the best things we can
make sure of will be the best words the occasion
can bring out of the best men of our own time.
Give noble prizes for essays, poems, historical
reviews, forecasts of the future, and if there is to
be any memorialising let it bo of men who have
helped us or the world in our century. There are
those whoso larger lives and befit labours have
been all in Australia, who have done more for us
than Mrs. Guelph with all her ancestry and pro-
geny. Carvo those men out in marble and set
them up in the public places of the city. That will
bo much better centennial work than a further
'“greasing of the fat sow,” or buying jewels for the
•old pig’s snout, and ribands for the young pig’s
tail.
4
The Law of the Lash.
The lash is still to flourish in New South Wales.
Last Friday night Mr. Harold Stephen, M.L.A.,
brought up a motion proposing, in the interests of
civilisation and humanity, to have the instrument
of torture abolished, but he was taught, by a
vote of the House, that the time had not yet
come. It bad come for England, but not for New
South Wales. It had come for Italy, France, and
Germany, but not for New South Wales. The time
came long ago, for even Russia. Those who up-
held the discipline of the lash should have been
driven to admit either that the crimes for which
whipping is administered are not pei petrated in
the countries named, or that these countries are
in advance of Australia in methods of dealing
with offenders. On either'horn would they have
been impaled. Those old countries whipped once.
Experience caused them to stop it. They de-
clared it useless, they declared it barbarous, and
they destroyed the weapon. New South Wales
whipped, and on Friday night decided to go on
whipping. The offences dwelt upon in the House
admit of no extenuation. The man is certainly
vile who is guilty of them. But the question
is what is the best thing to do with him. The
Sydney Daily Telegraph puts it that “ there
can bo no moral sense of any kind in him to feel
punishment, and that to talk of coddling up and
reforming such an animal is maudlin twaddle
of the most nauseous kind.” “He is,” goes on
the writer, “incapable of reform.” It obscures
the point to talk of “coddling up.” No one
thinks of that. But if treating him otherwise
than by the lash be maudlin twaddle, then the
countries of Europe—the civilisation of the
world—have all reached that stage. But if,
furthermore, the man be “incapable of reform”
what is the use of flogging him at all? Why
not chain him up for ever? We deny that there
exists any tribunal competent to pronounce
•any man incapable of reform. But even
were there such a tribunal, we arc still not
•at liberty to employ a discipline which will,
with moral certainty, make him worse.
That is what experience has proven the lash to do.
That is the experience which has caused its aboli-
tion in countries blessed with centuries of govern-
ment by intelligent and humane minds. “If the
flogging of any number of these culprits,” says the
flogging journal, “will save an innocent victim
who would otherwise be outraged, society
must hold on to the lash as its better
choice between two supreme evils.” But
the history of the torture shows that one innocent
victim has not been saved by the lash in con-
sequence of one guilty man having been flogged.
On the contrary, it proves that the more guilty
men have been flogged the more innocent victims
have been outraged. The debate and its result in
the Legislative Assembly show that New South
Wales—the nation which exuded from the moral
ulcers of the old world —which was born in-the
hulks, swaddled at the gallows, and educated
under the shadow of the gaol-wall—is not yet pre-
pared to take her place by the side of European
countries. This is no glory. It is a shame.
«.
Combative Cardinals.
In proposing the toast of “ The Colonies and
and India,” at a late banquet, Cardinal Manning
remarked that, although a man of peace, he
desired to see British armaments largely aug-
mented, convinced that a properly-armed British
Empire would guarantee universal cessation of
hostilities. It was a bold statement, consider-
ing that in Europe alone there are at present nine
millions of trained men ready at the bidding of a
few very commonplace rulers to fly at each others
throats. It is open to grave doubt whether the
distinguished persons who make such wild asser-
tions really consider their full meaning. Even if
every inhabitant of the United Kingdom capable
of bearing arms were a disciplined soldier,
superiority in numbers would still remain on the
side of France, Germany, Russia or Austria.
Uuder such circumstances it is surely the height
of unreason to suppose that England’s decision
would prevent appeals to arms. As for the
colonies establishing universal military service in
order to engage in European quarrels the idea is
purely and mischievously visionary. No more
baleful doctrine was ever preached than that of
securing peace by preparing for war. It is not by
adherence to this- obsolete presumption that the
Americans have kept clear of foreign complica-
tions. Compared with European naval and
military establishments theirs are utterly insigni-
ficant. Yet, with a mere handful of soldiers and
a few ships whose chief difficulty is in keeping
afloat, they enjoy entire freedom from the ominous
scares which send a periodic thrill through Europe.
It should be the aim of every patriotic Australian
to make our positions as secure as theirs—a con-
summation impossible of attainment while we
cling to the skirts of a distant power. To arm
people for the defence of their own land is one
thing ; to arm them for the purpose of dictating
to mankind is quite another. Even if the tie
between Britain and America had never been
broken, it is absurd to suppose that the sagacious
Yankees would pour out blood and treasure to
keep the Russians on their own side of the
Danube, or the Germans out of Holland, or the
T rench out of Belgium. Cardinal Manning, like
many other prominent Englishmen, appears to
have become dangerously inoculated with the
belief that colonists pine for military glory in dis-
tant lands. There never was a greater mistake.
Those among us who have done their best to
spread this mischievous belief have had their
little hour of triumph, but the time is approaching
when they and their doctrines will be wiped off
the slate.
A Pitiful Premier.
Srn Patrick Jennings, the New South Wales
Premier, has had a fair chance during the present
session of displaying any ability he may possess,
and in the result has failed to show his ownership
of any of the qualities necessary to a statesman, or
even a political leader. As a speaker he has never
risen above mediocrity, and a dreary, wearisome
mediocrity at that, while his lessor efforts have
simply been the voicing of uncertainty, or the echo
of the voice of the prompter. For his prompters
are many, ranging in capacity from little Ren-
wick, who “ watches” the other prompter, Dibbs, to
the great Dalley, who from his secure retreat at
Manly, pulls the strings when ho wishes the
puppet-Premier to dance. Renwicic moves the
puppet to action, and straightway a vote of cen-
sure is minuted against Mr. Dibbs ; the latter
returns, pulls another string, and the minute is
expunged. In the Assembly Mr. Dibbs is head of
the Ministry; the business which he chooses is dealt
with, and no adjournment granted until after his
consent has been given. In Cabinet, the strategic
science of Renwick avails much, for the Minister
for Public Instruction has graduated from that col-
lege of political dodgery, the Orange lodge, and
never relaxes his grip of a point until the object
is attained. But the string most constantly used
to jerk this puppet to action is laid on from
Manly, where the astute Dalley resides. And it
is used on various occasions. It was used when Sir
Chinese Parjkes and others had been damaging
the Ministry by forceful or sarcastic orations.
I hen Sir Puppet went to Dubbo and poured into
the ears of half a hundred rustics the brilliant
oratory and cutting sarcasm which bore an un-
doubted Manly brand. It was used, too, when
Sir Puppet had gone a short journey—to his wit’s
ond only, in trying to discover how the centenary
was to be celebrated. “Make up al5 days’
drunk and I will be chief orator,” was the com-
mand, and a programme was drawn out accord
ingly, with a blank left for the name of the chief
actor—he must be deputationised and entreated
later on, and then graciously and magnifi-
cently he will consent. But if Sir Puppet is a
pitiful Premier when his prompters are stoking
him with decision, he is politically beneath con-
tempt when left to his own resources. After
the Lyne-Clarke affair occurred it was clearly
the Premier’s duty to proscribe and ask the House
to confirm due punishment of this piece of larri-
kinism, but the Premier did nothing of the kind.
Similar offences in the past have led to expulsion,
and the like punishment was due in this case. But
there was no one to pull the string. Mr. Want
could not, for he had contributed to the “ success ”
of the event; Mr. Dalley would not, fora vulgar
fight is beneath the notice of one who prepares
centenary orations ; and no one else seemed in-
clined to, so Sir Puppet calmly condoned the most
shameful piece of parliamentary rowdiness that
has ever disgraced New South Wales. And there
is no one to urge the Premier on to pass the In-
come Tax ; it has been introduced and read, but
there seems to be a conspiracy to prevent its pas-
sage—a traitorous conspiracy among those who
are supposed to support the Bill, and therefore the
rich men are to escape this deserved impost. There
is no one of the wire-pullers who wishes to
assume the functions of the Premiership by
forcing Sir Puppet to action, therefore there
is no hope that the Bill will pass. Were it
not that Sir Henry Parkes seems to bo the only
alternative Premier, the House would not submit
for a single day to the immeasurable incompetence
of Sir Patrick Jennings.
“Berry’s Advice.”
Go forth my son, and see with how little wis-
dom the world is governed ; ” and the son went
forth, and picked up a copy of the S.M. Herald,
and when he had read one paragraph, he laid
down the paper, for it seemed to him that he had
seen enough in one day of the folly which he had
been enjoined to seek. There was greater depth
of ipibecility in one short paragrapli than he could
measure at so brief a notice, he would return to
it again when his faculties had recovered from
their state of amazement, and would try to com-
prehend Its full meaning. The paragraph, not a
long one, referred to the cabled statement that
the White Star Company had offered to land
troops in Adelaide in 23j days from London. That
was the- sum of the message, and the Herald
man had added :—•
What troops are wanted for in Adelaide we are at a loss
to imagine, and can only suppose that, in the event of France
not withdrawing from the New Hebrides, it is surmised
that Great Britain, on the advice of Sir Graham Berry
will declare war with France, and troops will be sent out to
Australia, as one point d'appui , or Sir Graham Berry has
hxnted to the clivectors tha-t transports will soon be required.”
The italics are our own, the insanity is the
Herald man’s. To picture this, the people of Great
Britain declaring war against France, “on the
advice of Graham Berry,” for the sake of gain-
ing the New Hebrides, would require a monstrous
effort of the imagination, and it must clearly be
modesty of a pronounced kind which prompts the
gorgeous paragrapher to state himself at “ a
loss to imagine ” anything whatever. What sort
of a being Graham Berry must be, in the estima-
tion of such a writer, it is difficult to conceive,
and it is equally difficult to arrive at his estimate
of the Lnglish Cabinet, which, apparently, is
willing to plunge two nations and 100,000,000
people into war on the advice of Sir Graham
Berry.” But, in sober truth, the fabled
fly on the chariot-wheel ” represents pretty
fairly the share of this Radical Iscariot in
raising the dust of war in Europe. For weeks
he has been hunting about in a weary endeavour
to find a bishop for Melbourne, and after offering
the episcopal hat and £2OOO a year with “ perks”
to a small army of clerics, 'the order does not
yet seem to be filled. These Austral colonies are
in the estimation of Englishmen interesting only
because of the trade they produce ; in the London
papers they are rarely mentioned, and then only
in two-line cables, or space-filling sub-leaders,
written apparently with a view of showing what !
dense ignorance of colonial subjects a jour-
nalist may acquire. And the colonists, thanks
to Emu-egg White, Henniker Heaton, and
such representative Australians, are looked
upon as purse-proud, ill-mannered men, with an
insatiable thirst for titles, and an enormous idea
of theil- own importance. Graham Berry himself
is hardly clear of the ruck of Australians now in
England. That Salisbury should look to him for
advice is an idea suggestive of the insanity of
its originator ; that England should declare war
against France to gain the New Hebrides is a sup-
position that could only emanate from the imagi-
nation of an Australian Jingo of the S.M. Herald
type.
Kurts’ Chopped-up Arcadia.
During the past few months a great many
persons, not only in New South Wales, but through-
out Australia, have been delighted at the news
ot wholly unexpected accessions of fortune. They
have first received free tickets in the Grand Prize
Draw mg of Messrs. It. and A. Kurts, of Sydney,
and many of them have subsequently been
congratulated upon their success in draw-
lng a prize “ Freehold Building Site ” at
West Kurrajong,” near Richmond. The
three guineas required as payment for the title-
deeds was rightly regarded as a small matter;
much heavier fees than that are usually demanded
for a conveyance even when the land is situated
m less salubrious localities than West Kurrajong
near Richmond; therefore the “ lucky winners ”
were prone to affix very large value to their wind-
''i . rea l estate. One “ lucky winner ” wrote to
this paper asking that his prize might be sold,
Bulletin subscription and lawyer’s foe for con-
veyance paid out of proceeds, and the balance
remaining forwarded to him. That prize is still
unsold , buyers do not seem to be crowding one
another for Freehold Building Sites at West
Kurrajong, near Richmond.
T P to the time when this avalanche of free-
hold philanthropy overwhelmed Messrs. Kurts,
they had been known merely as tailors and specu-
lative business men ; their garments wore reported
to be remarkably cheap, and their generosity in
allowing an extra pair of trousers to every suit
showed that they were fully alive to the wants of
sedentary Australians. But a wider fame was
theirs when they began to issue free tickets for
the Grand Prize Drawing, for these seem to have
been sent to scores of people to whom the gener-
ous donor s had hitherto been quite unknown
Country papers heard of the lavishness of
the enterprising tailors, and wrote gush-
ing little pars, concerning the Grand Art
Union. But many winners were suspicious,
and wrote to The Bulletin making inquiries
as to the value of the land. Messrs. Geo.
Ash, G. W. Stockham (Redliill, S.A.), H. G
Ward (Temora), W. James, B. Pinchin, A. J. J.
Wehr (Forest Lodge), A. T. E E. Harrison,
and sundry others in various parts of Australia
desired advice as to the wisdom of accepting the
prize by paying the necessary deed-fee, and as the
matter had thus become one ofjuiblic import it
seemed necessary to acquire more knowledge con-
cerning it.
The result of a preliminary search against
the title of the 200-acre block out of which the
prizes are carved was eminently satisfactory. The
claim of the present holders is good enough for a
whole kingdom. Granted to William Thurston
over half a century ago, the estate was sold in
1832 to John Terry Hughes, and thence by
conveyances and descent it came to the Messrs.
Kurts, who appear by the register to have
secured the property for £2oo—£l an acre.
The Arm therefore must have spent £2OO
and expenses of conveyance, printing, clerical
work, and so forth, in order to confer their favours
upon those who were lucky enough to win prizes,
buch conspicuous self-sacrificing generosity un-
doubtedly proves that practical philanthropy and
keen business talents may exist together in the
same breast. Or else, perhaps, it may be that Mr.
Robert Kurts possesses the keen instinct of the
business man, while the surging tide of prodigal
liberality wells within Mr. Abraham’s bosom.
This, however, is mere, and perhaps impertinent,
speculation.
The estate itself has many advantages to
those in search of a site for a rural home. A
quiet, rarely interrupted by the sound of traffic or
the visitation of man, rests upon its acres. The
whisper of the wind as it courses by, and the
hoarse cry of the cockatoo as he swings in mid-air,
are chief among the exceptions to the prevailing
calm. Along the northern boundary the Mount
Tomah road lies, but the passers there are few.
To the student in search of comparative isolation
from the outer world; to the business man in
quest of a complete change in his surroundings ;
or to a poet seeking solitude and immunity from
bailiffs, the locality as it now stands offers
special inducements. It is difficult to dis-
cover the boundaries of the estate, and it is
therefore impossible to say that there may not
have been expensive improvements placed on some
part of the land, but near the board which bears
the word “Kurts’ Estate” the soil seems to have
received nothing beyond that which was given by
the elements. It produces very little grass, but, as
though to atone for this neglect, bears an abund-
ance of timber. Near the road the ground is fairly
level, but at the back is more uneven and
rocky. We could not discover where the various
streets, as per plan, are situated, but it appears
probable that if any of these cross some pictur-
esque slopes and fern-bordered creeks at what
would seem to be the back portion of the estate,
the owners of allotments there are not likely to be
troubled by a superabundance of street traffic for
many years to come.
It is difficult to locate the various lots, for
the surveyor only seems to have left about a dozen
pegs as evidence of his work, and these are placed
along the front boundary. And they don’t look
like surveyors’ pegs either.
There are many uses to which these allot-
ments might be put. As family-vaults they would
have special advantages. A number of them would
seem to have been designed especially for quarries,
as the freestone is of the best quality and seem-
ingly abundant. But quarrying up there would
hardly pay at present. On others there is valuable
timber, but even at that, 33ft. by 132 is hardly
sufficient area to justify the erection of a sawmill.
Looking at the feasibility of starting any such
industry, we are still inclined to think that when
the Messrs. Kurts congratulate the lucky winners
of such blocks they deal in sarcasm of an exceed-
ingly refined order.
As the brothers freely and publicly admit,
allotments in this estate are not of “ exceedingly
great” value at present. But who can tell what may
happen in the future ? A proposed railway, Bell’s
Line route, passes round the northern boundary ;
when that railway is made, allotments there, or
at least some of them, will be worth £3 3s. each.
And when, as Mr. Kurts prophecies, 5000 people
are on the estate, allotments must rise in value ;
and there must also bo a railway there then—it
would be cruel to leave so many people without
facilities for getting away from the place.
Kurts’ Arcadia is situated about 53 miles from
Sydney : to,reach it one must take train to Rich-
mond, 38 miles; thence across the Kurrajong
range, about 15 miles; the village of Upper
Kurrajong being about 10 miles out from Rich-
mond. As land is so plenty out at “Kurraiong
West,” it seems strange that the allotments should
be so small as 32 x 132 feet, but perhaps the Messrs.
Kurts desired rather to distribute ‘ ‘ patterns” of
land, than to fill an order for real estate. After a
somewhat/brief inspection, we are not inclined to
give an order for land of the same kind as the
sample. We don’t seem to hanker after lots in
Kurt’s Arcadia.
CORRESPONDENCE
‘ E.J.”: Your versos seem to indicate
inclination to suicide. Let us advise you—don’t. We ha
ourselves been so ill as to be close up to the Great Dividi
Range, and we didn't like the look of the country: it didn'
seem very well watered. Keep your grip on this world, i
bird in hand, &c “Lemuel”: Fine phrases, pleasar
cadences, and attractive allusions, all are in your poetry, o
which this verse is a fair sample :
“ The slime of the serpent was o’er him,
Instead of a heart a sharp fang—
From the womb of a black wolf they tore him
And joined him to Judas’s gang."
You see that is incomprehensible bosh, although bosh of
superior character from a literary point of view. Just t
now, to write something that you yourself can understand..
“ Unit” : We can’t find space. Most of the points discuss!
will be dealt with editorially. Your contention that Prote
tion and Land Monopoly go hand in hand we believe to
entirely wrong. Protection is a mere question of oppo
tunism, subject to constant variation by circumstance
State ownership of land, on the contrary, is based upon u
alterable and universal principles of right. If your view
correct how is it that Freetrade England is cursed by
system of land monopoly the most ruinous as well as tl
most intense the world has ever seen ? “Victim” - V
are thoroughly investigating the subject referred to, an
would be glad to receive any evidence you may have. Pleaf
call or send address* “ Cabby ”: Cannot insert yoi
poetry, but will enquire into the matter, and if facts are as
you affirm, treat the subject in our own way....“ 0. Wic
hera : Your pun is the weakest, and your vision the thinne
on record. Tell us, now, are you not Neild, M.P. ? “ Ben
(Rockhampton): Yes, but they must be much condensed ar
of all-round Australian interest....“ J.J.”: The reason mug
of course be not that Mr. Ralston is a son-in-law of Judg
Windeyer, who presides over the N.S.W. Divorce Court bu
that, though a mere stripling at the bar, he is considered b
the attorneys the best divorce-lawyer in Sydney. Please le
us know as soon as the present sittings are over in how man
divorce-cases Mr. Ralston has appeared....“ W.B.C W
think so. Mrs. Herbert Flemming (Miss Fisher) is stil,
with the Emelie Melville opera company, and is now in Mel
bourne....“Subscriber”: We willingly adopt your usefu
suggestion “H. Lacey” (Perth): As you say, we are in
this instance “ careless as to whose interests we ruin by tel
ling the truth ’ about Kimberley. We have just read thal
the diggers who went to Kimberley found no gold, bul
lots of misery. Men had been ten weeks without meat no
body was getting over ldwt. a day, hundreds of sick and ex
hausted men hadn’t money to pay for return passages and
the only man who got lib. gold shot himself through suffer
ing. Write and tell us how your little land-spec, in Derby
town-lots, is getting a10ng..., “Depraved Drunken Loafer”
If the Bourke Watchman says that The Bulletin is
read only by “depraved drunken loafers” this is probably
sign that teetotalism is preferred to truth in Bourke
“Lamb Percentage”: Such items always acceptable....
“Waratah”: Your view seems correct enough. The rea
danger is that the Chinese evil may be tolerated until it
becomes absolutely incurable....“ Kellie O'Brien”: Your
screed about priests is not a brilliant success. Try a newer
subject....“ Bushman ”: Matter already under consideration
b.C. (Richmond): Is it sacred or comic—or both? . ,
“T. Parker (Georgetown): Thanks for item. Would be glad of
some more.... “Wire Fence”: Decision evidently wrong.
“J-” (Williamstown): Send along anything of general in-
terest....“ Henry H.”: Please write your next poem on
paper that will tear easily... .“W.G,” (Armidale): We are
knee-deep in articles on the Chinese Question just now..
Tinonee ’: Your joke would probably be a boon at Tino-
nee. You might keep any similar ones there. They don’t
stand exp0rt....”J.H.8.”: During the recent election two
subscriptions of £50,000 were made-that of Lord Wolverton
being to the Conservative, while Lord Rosebery was equally
liberal to the Gladstonian Fund. Whether either lord evergave
away one-half of the amount for the relief of destitution is a
point concerning which we have insufficient information.
“Taxation” : If, as stated in your poem, “ they are going to
tax everything that walks upon two legs,” we have an idea
that you will escape altogether. But if they tax everythin-*
with ears, you will probably be “right in it.”....” George
B ”: Don’t you. If you must go to law, go to a respect-
able Court—the Insolvent Court or the Divorce Court
“ Bargo”: Your ideas are good enough, but your “ Answer to
Swinburne” can’t be hung up alongside the red-haired
Radical poet’s high-Tory verse :—-
“ Many a year that priceless light of life has trembled we
remember, ’
On the platform of extinction—unextinct •
Many a month has been for him the long year's last-life’s
calm December. -
Can it be that he who said so, saying so, winked ?”
The last line of this, intended for Gladstone, would apply
remarkably well to Algernon himself, with a little varia-
tion :
Can it be that he who wrote so, writing so, drinked?
It is surely the last resource of English Toryism when it
hires this narcotised poet to ask if its enemy winked. Swin-
burne is the man who wrote these lines :
By thy name that in hell-fire was written and burned it tho
point of thy sword, uurnea at the
Thou art smitten, thou God, thou art smitten ; thy death is
upon thee, O Lord. J UMUI 18
And it is this atrocious blasphemer who is now shoved for-
ward as the champion of High Church and High Toryism in
England. The spectacle of H. A. Long hiring Apollyon to
pass the plate would be nothing to this “Cutti” (Mel-
bourne) : Thanks, but have already printed it “ G Strick-
land”: No space this week “An Admirer”: Will be con-
sidered’....” Joe the Growler”: Your comments noted
E. Carnville ’: President Cleveland receives £lO 000 a veir
The English Civil List is £385,000 “Carlo”: Your poem
would have been better if it had been shorter by say 30 linps
Only 28 lines in it? Well, then, 28lines shorter “Hamlet”!
Your argument, such as it is, is meant to prove that Shakes-
peare was a double-rolled, superfine, bevel-edged imbecile.
Free Trade (Wagga): You argue on an unimportant side-
-ISBue Robert Aveling”: Will do 50....” Variety” •G V
Brooke was Irish-from Dublin.... “ Alice W ” : Make it up '
with him. We once heard of a wife whose husband summoned
her for assault. When in Court, she said she “wanted a
separation.” “ Very well,” said the Bench, “we send vo„ to
gaol for two months. "....“Gundagai” We rWt£ t 0
“whether the Government intoTaUtog a PMto
Parramatta, or whether they intend letting the matter stand
over till Parliament is prorogued, and then appointing an out
-’R” W of indignation of their supporters"
A ’ , The shareholder m the paper is a sworn friend
of Parkes. Hence the journal will continue to oppose Pro-
tection, to befriend the Chinese and other Orangemen to
advocate Imperial Federation (i.e., the transplantation of
High Toryism to Australia), and to do all in its power to
maintain the numerous flogging clauses of a criminal code
worthy only of King Theebaw, or the past history of NSW
W. L. C. : 1 hanks; clippings will be noticed “i '
Ifielan : Cannot answer your question. The Bur'i'i'ttm
measures thought, not cesspits.... “Dear Marv” ■ Wm.idJe*
print it, even as an ad “Jim Mullins” (W Australia!-
Thanks. Majority of your statements we could not print
even in Chinese, but will notice a few items “
\our questions concerning the Kurrajona’Arnadfl ’
answered in special article in this issue®. “Smudge”®
Snake-perjury by no means unique. As giant mentUi f ’
tion is constantly devoted to the production of mrh^r Xer '
mediocrity in this line is an unpardonable ste True , on’
yes, quite so; they all are.. .“J. Campbell" ! ? ?u h ’
Council has succeeded in drawing up a regulation ahrmt ip 6
goats, you might persuade the goats to fn™ ti he
against the Council. We would like to compare the
productions....” Freethought ” : Held over “o •
ostentatio^^^rtisemen^^’Sco'tty^he^riikl l66^ B n< J


NORTHERN JOURNALISM.
QUEENSLAND journalist sends us the following screed from the back-blocks,
as a warning to Australian pressmen who may contemplate going North
“ I have the honour to be engaged on a bush weekly up here, in the polyglot
capacity of sub-editor, reporter, compositor, war correspondent and book-
keener I look after the dog-fights, the drought, missionary meetings, gigantic
water-melons, and the Irish policy of the Government. I calculate weekly the
number of sheep that have died in the colony from want of water, and the
amount of odour which their carcases can be expected to produce, sup-
posing they odorise for 21 hours daily, and do not go in for any short-time
movement, or bosh of that sort. Our journal was originally started to fill a
yawning cavity in the Northern intellect, and the long felt want of the
district now is that we should stop for evermore. I have long endeavoured
to discover the cause of our non-success, and have at last come to the
conclusion that it may be accounted for in two ways. First, we try to
please everybody ; secondly, no one buys the paper. Our proprietor
is a clergyman, and he contributes a religious column weekly with a
Scripture text on top. His favourite quotation comes from somewhere
in the New Testament, and reads “ All flesh is grass but the printer s
* devil transposes it as often as not, and it generally appears in type
“All grass is fresh.” As there is not a blade of
anything green within 10 miles of us this reads like
mild sarcasm. It creates a prejudice against
us, too, in the minds of the neighbouring squat-
ters, who are mostly soured by misfortune, and
they call in whenever they have an after-
noon to spare and allude to us casually as
liars, and want to know where wc are going when we die. Still, our religious column might prove a
success were it not that it gets mixed up now and then with the sporting items, and then the e is
trouble. Our Christianity is obscured by cricket; our dogmas degenerate into dog-fights, and uc
think nothing of telling our readers that “ He said, saddle me the ass, and they saddled him, and he
finally came in a good first, just beating Ben Bolt on the post by a nock, with Pirate two lengths in
the rear.” None of our readers can tell what our preed is now ;it has been interspersed with billiards,
and adulterated with aquatics, until
we are unable ourselves to distinguish
Beach from the prophet Elijah, and
our underproof doctrines won’t go
down with the soulless multitude.
Our editor is an atheist, and says he
is related to a viscount —though I do
not mean to imply, even for a moment,
that his connection with the peerage
does the paper any harm ; but he often
forgets to put on his shirt and stock-
ings before coming down to the office,
and this weakness has gradually
alienated the auctioneer at the corner,
the chemist down the road, and the rest of the aristocracy, so that they withhold them support.
Moreover our respected chiefs pants are short to the verge of indecency ; his language is frequent
and painful and free ; ” the extra twopence for manners was not paid when he got his education ; and
he generally smells like a billiard-room full of stale tobacco smoke, with an opium-den at the rear.
On Monday this literary luminary starts a spree that lasts till Wednesday night, and then on Thursday
be comes down and writes the leader for the next day’s issue. The article commences invariably with
a vicious attack on Prince Bismarck ; the middle is tilled up with extracts from last Sunday s sermon ,
and the disjointed moral at the end consists of a touching anecdote about the sagacity of dogs. And
unhappily it is always the same dog, which makes things dreadfully monotonous. This brute was
four years old when he first showed signs of superior intelligence ; he has now seen 14 summers, and
the ravages of mange have given him that aspect of wisdom which always accompanies extreme
baldness hut lie is sagacious to the last. Moreover, the editor and write in the first
nerson so that 9 o’clock on Friday morning invariably sees our stock of ‘I s run out, and then X a
are used instead. Our local column is chiefly devoted to the advancement of the district, and as it
advocates the interests of a bush township, three gullies, a waterhole, and a deserted goldfield, the
tension on the space is at times very severe. Then comes a long article against Gladstone, which was
set un some two years ago, and has done duty as a literary Juggernaut until this day. Ihe heading
is altered weekly, and by this simple device it has served as a violent onslaught against almost every
nublic man living. The only time when it did not fit was when we tried to level it at Milan Obreno-
yitch 4 ‘from our own correspondent.” The disaster occurred through the misguided ambition of our
nronrietor who insisted on sticking in at random, here and there, such names as Leschjanin,
1’ R , ulko Olimpisch ” and the like, coupled with occasional references to the “ Skuptschma, m order
to make it appear as if evolved by deep and painful study. The printing machine broke
down however, beneath this load of Servian philology. The roller groaned as it
•nassed over the orthographic corpse of a Belgrade hero ; it baulked at Olimpisch ; it cleared
Leschianin with a leap, as if that warrior had been a post and rail fence ; and it brought up against
the awful Skuptschina with a crash that reduced the whole machine to hopeless wreck. Ihe i emain-
insr column of the journal contains our principles, of which we have several. We support Lord
Salisbury the Australian Eleven, the deepening of the town well, Beach, the Federal Council, the
annexation of the New Hebrides, the 10 million loan, the doctor at the local hospital, the opening of
hotels on Sunday, and the Soudan Contingent; but the whole lot put together are not able to support
us We also deal tenderly with every religion except Mormonism, and when we want to call a man a
blackguard we do it in the correspondence column, and sign it ‘ Pro Bono Publico.’ The compositors
e-enerallv set up ‘hono’ as ‘bones,’ and transpose ‘publico’ into ‘public-house, hut that only adds a
trifle to the cumulative agony of the situation. Altogether, the man who runs a bush journal m
Queensland cannot be said to have struck melted grease in his choice of a vocation ; and I write these
lines in sorrow rather than anger as a warning to my brethren of the press.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The same old wail from the Secretary of
that high-toned institution, the Sydney Univer-
sity Cricket Club: “Members won’t pay their
subscriptions.” Even if the fact is as stated, the
Secretary might surely omit this portion of his
report “as a slight token of respect'’ to the
’Varsity itself.
* * *
The match Cambridge University v. Aus-
tralia was drawn, the respective first-innings’
scores being 349 and 379, of which latter number
Giffen made 119 and Evans 74. Judging from an
English letter we saw the other day, Evans has
been shockingly treated —has always been sent in
last, and though in good bowling form, has never
been put on to trundle except as a forlorn hope.
In the second innings Cambridge lost four wickets
for 149.
* * *
That good all-rounder, Mr. George Seale,
so far amateur champion boxer of Australia, is
suffering severely from an injury sustained by his
right forearm a fortnight since—so much so that
it may be safely stated that Mr. Seale will not be
able to appear on the date arranged for his cham-
pionship match with Mr. Buck, on whom, we hoar,
some Melbourne sports have put much coin. How-
ever, the meeting being an amateur affair, Mr.
Buck will no doubt agree to a postponement. Mr.
Seale’s absence, by the way, will demoralize the
senior fours for Sydney Mercantile Regatta on
Sept. 25 and the M.R.C. eight for the Association
Regatta on Oct. 9. The eight-oar event is looked
on as a trial between long-slides and swivels, and
short-slides and poppet-heads, the styles believed
in respectively by the two leading Sydney clubs.
Mr. Seale is one of the biggest long-slide pro-
phets.
The aquatic advent of Captain Gascoigne,
A.D.C., isn’t going to give Sydney yachting such
a big fillip after all. The gallant Captain doesn’t
think his imported yacht, as fitted now, fast
enough to race, and as he isn’t inclined to sacrifice
comfort for speed, his boat will be seen chiefly as
a cruiser. The Magic has an enormous suit from
Lapthorne, and, when she first turns out under it,
if she doesn’t capsize, she’ll show Sydney what
sail-carrying means. The Electra will probably
again turn out yawl-rigged, and it is a sin that
Mr. Fitzhardinge does not endeavour to bring the
speed out of his clipper. The Doris is coming out
again as a racer, but she is slow as the proverbial
top, and it is wonderful Mr. Curtis hasn’t become
aware of it ere this.
* •» *
Foley’s Athletic Hall must be a veritable
goldmine to him. Last Saturday night the
“cognoscenti” were eager for the four rounds
between Lees and Dooley, thinking to get a “ line’
for the match between Lees and Jackson ; btit it
was “no go,” as the pair gave only four easy
rounds, with honours divided. Molloy (Victoria),
who improves each time he shows, gave a good
exhibition of his science on “Novice Jack.”
Early in the week Molloy had a benefit, and, at it,
a first-class set-to with Newton. Jack Hall, the
“ daddy” of all at his weight, made a pretty show
with a friend, and then little Murphy and the
elder Fuller came on, the former, as usual, wait-
ing till the last round, in which, after a splendid
exhibition on both sides, he pretty nearly knocked
his man out. When Meadows and Newton faced
each other the latter forced the pace, but Mea-
dows gave as well as received, and proved him-
self better than we had given him credit for being.
The cleverness- with which he ducked under
Newton’s quick left hand showed that he fights
well with his head.
* * *
The defeat of the New South Wales
Rugby team by six points to nil, at Auckland on
Saturday last, is not quite such a “doing” as
appears at first sight. The Aucklanders muster a
fine team, and the match was the first our men
had played together. The weather was wretched,
and the New South Wales skipper iniured his
shoulder, and had to retire. Saturday’s match
will be against Wellington. In Sydney Club foot-
ball the Gordons beat Arfomas by five points to
nil for the Gardiner Cup, and the University de-
feated Newcastle.
* * *
Last Saturday, at Eandwick, Tattersall’s
Club had a lovely day, but a comparatively small
attendance. All went well until, in the Spring
Handicap, the horses were coming home, when
Speculation fell, and brought down with him
Signor, Rapid, and Maid of the Lake. Mick
O’Brien, the accomplished jockey, who last year
piloted Sheet Anchor to victory in the Melbourne
Cup,gotaterriblefall with Rapid, sustaining injuries
from which he may possibly never recover ; but
the other horsemen were lucky enough to escape
with a shaking. Carissima started favourite for
the Hurdles, but only managed to run into a
place, the winner turning up in Bound, who de-
feated Javelin by some six lengths. The favourite,
Burrilda, won the Tramway Handicap, after a
sharp set-to with Soldier’s Wind, Ellington third.
Kathleen at 3 to 1 on, won the Selling Race by a
neck from Recruit. Matador won the Two-Year;
Old Stakes from start to finish from Yetman
Moorehouse third ; and Rosebud made a finish of
the day’s sport by easily winning the Spring Han-
dicap from Ellington.
* * *
Old Game was voted a real “cert.” for
the Caulfield Grand National. Owner, jockey
and public were alike confident that, bar accident'
the favourite couldn’t be beaten. Even Sir Henry
Loch was persuaded to have a little bit on the
good thing, and the whole gubernatorial party
followed Tom Corrigan into the paddock to have
“a look at the ’oss’ previous to saddling. On
returning to scale, Corrigan smiled up at his
Excellency (who endured his agony on the
Stewards’ Stand) with a didn’t-I-tell-you-so sort of
smile which his Excellency graciously recipro-
cated. Game, in fact, ran in such high-toned
interests that his victory was assured. Out of a
field of eight, six horses fell or refused out of con-
sideration for the Governor. The runner-up,
Contingent, just kept on his legs in order to give a
flavour of interest to the finish.
* * *
The latest ring item is from Townsville
(Q.), where a “ member of the force ” has gone to
gaol for It days. He was engaged in backing a
sober man to fight a large inebriate, and had just
put £6 on, when he found that an alderman was
present, and then lie vindicated the dignity of the
law by punching the civil functionary and run-
ning him in. Hence, &c.
* * *
Britannia no longer rules the waves. At
Bowen (Q.) a Chinaman wiped the gutter with a
loud-voiced British tar, after a discussion of three
rounds, and told the infuriated bluejacket to go
and learn how to fight. And now a minute yellow
mongrel, supposed to be identical with the war-
like cherub of Bowen, is wandering round
Charters Towers, and has already pummelled two
local bruisers of much repute. The opium-soaked
heathen must go.
* * *
Teemer, the sculler, vomited soveral times
after his defeat by Gaudaur. Teemer’s backers
felt sick, too.
* * *
Opponents of early two-year-old racing
might well shake their heads, as they inspected
the youngsters saddled for the Saddling Stakes at
last V. A. T.C. meeting. A more backward-look
ing lot never faced a starter. Even Sunshade
who achieved her second victory in the event, is
at present a miserable specimen of a thorough-
bred, and will probably have to take a very back
seat as the season advances. But the strongest
argument against such a race is the distance over
which it is run. To send even the weediest of
weeds on a journey of three furlongs is a mere
farce, at which every true friend of the turf must
grieve. Herein is a chance for reformers. If
they cannot restrict two-year-old running, they
might at least carry a motion that no race for
horses of any age shall be run over a course less
than half a mile in length.
* * *
W. G. George, the ex-amateur ped., has
again taken down Cummings’ number in a mile
race. Cummings, it will be remembered, lost the
mile last time they were matched, but subsequently
won easily at four and ten miles. Till the other
day, however, the Scotchman held the best mile
record, so George’s last performanoe must have
been something phenomenal. Yet, only a little
while back George was cutting a poor figure be-
side Myers, whom he had defeated three years
previously. Next we shall have Cummings licking
Myers; and the puzzle will be complete.
* * *
George, the English runner, has defeated Cummings at one
mile, lowering the best record for that distance.
Matterson and Lee row on the Thames for £2OO a-side Sept.
13; Kemp and Bubear pull on 20th for £lOO a-side.
J. H. Anderson, on June 18, won the 50 miles bicycling
championship of Scotland. Time, 3h. 19min. 20sec.
Scullers Matthews and Anderson, of Sydney, matched to
row light skiffs over Parramatta championship course, for
£5O, on September 11.
Hanlan and Ross rowed an exhibition race, three miles,
with a turn, “ for 3000dols.,” on July 1. Hanlan won, but m
view of the leisurely manner the men rowed, those present
refused to swallow the timekeeper’s announcement of 20nun.
30sec
Wharton, the coloured amateur sprinter, in July last elec-
trified those present by sti iking the tape in a 100yds. race De-
fore the face of his timer’s watch showed lOsec. ( Wbarton m
the youth who, with 22 yards, beat Myers at a “quartir m
49sec., and who beat Cowie at 100yds. in 10 l-ssec.
H. A. Speechley, amateur bicyclist, covered a mile in 2min
34 4-sthsec., at Crystal Palace Track, London. Sendee, at
Hampden Park, Springfield, Mass., on July 5, did the ms
tance in 2min. t4su ~ his fractional times being— I yuarrer,
36 2-sthsi ( half, Ruin. 13 3-sthsec.; three-quarters, lnnn.
52sec.
The “ fiist’ snipte of the season appears to be rath®
plentiful this year. He has been potted twice alr ®® ( b' w
Goulburi , ooce at Grange, eleven times at Forbes, a “ a ” •
he has just been knocked over by Mr. F. Jackson, of Ar
dale. Seems to be as hard to kill as a cat, or the man
fought at Waterloo. ,
The insertion of newpaper reports concerning the alleg
sanguinary intentions of John L. Sullivan and in
Mitchell over their match, which was to have come o
New York on July 5, proved a suicidal policyot
m magement, as it forced the authorities to take cog
sance of the conti-st, and when a license for the show
applied for, the mayor, who has the granting ° r .
licenses, refused it, and the match had to be aban
Mitchell has since gone to England.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY*
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY 0 COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
An.3rican Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
... HI ■[' 3 AT
Lowest Prices.
fL
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED*


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“ The Soggarth ” p
New Opera House—“ The Great Divorce Case” .. ~
Gaiety Theatre—“Fatiuitza”
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
Academy or Music—Federal Minstrels
The Sydney Royal is rushed nightly by
Ahin and. lonely multitude to witness George D
rell’s new drama, “The Soggarth,” dedicated
Plain Bill, P.C., Q.C., M.L.C., the Great Afric
Prophet-smasher and Arab nightmare. The dran
is a great improvement on George’s usual effor
and though the action drags a good deal, the ga
are carefully filled in by various thin men w
lean up against a number of depressing circu
stances, and think in a shrill yell, or by mute,
glorious Holloways trying to sell pills, and t
central tragedy is shaded off by a bay horse, agei
24 years, with a bald and deceptive tail. T
drama altogether weighs about eight ounces, a
it shows conclusively that a man who cornrni
murder ought to wipe up the deceased before t
Board of Health come after that object, unless
wants to be smitten with inward pain, and enc
his career as a blighted and shrivelled corps
There is a Parliamentary yell and a wild “Hu
roosh” behind the curtain, and the great illu
trated bed-quilt rises and reveals the fact that
process-server is endeavouring to foreclose on
lone widow’s hog, and is afterwards walloped
the excited peasantry. In the next act, a thi
egged individual, with an evil shadow on h
-Jong and pensive jaw, is trying to collect tl
Vint, and is lifted up by the windpip
by a tenant who is three years in arrear
an insult which is afterwards wiped out in blooc
or rather in brains. We lose ourselves after this
a murky glen where a sherry-coloured waterfall
rushing through a mass of dark and dreary bus
but we learn that the wrong man is about to
hanged. Unluckily for himself, however, th
assassin cannot keep his secret, and the pangs o
conscience prey upon his damask jaw till at la
he reveals his crime in the midst of a weird blu
landscape, while an habitual Irish drunk is liidin
behind a stump. Then the drunk comes forth a
an avenging angel and drags the criminal off in
series of convulsive hops, during which proces
the draggled sinner presents a striking resemblanc
to a purple jumping-jack falling over its ow
yellow stick.
* * *
Mr. Herbert Flemming represents th
nearly-hanged Earl of Glenmore; and Mr. Vin
oent the leaden-jawed murderer, while Mr. Mead
appears as the soggarth or priest, all three bein
about equally good. Mr. Beck is cut off in th
flower of his youth, but he makes an attractiv
deceased and it is a pity he did not live longer
If some arrangements could be made for resur
reeling him we would be very glad. Among th
ladies, Miss Agnes Thomas comes first as th
warm-hearted Nourine, and second honours ar
divided between Miss Nelly Mortyne as Lad
baby, and Miss Oliver, who eats a large savelo
outside a gaol. Of the other characters we wi
write more anon.
-AZ* AL AL AL
'TV' "TT 'A' 'TV*
“ The Sins of the City” at Sydney Roya
Standard proves on inspection to be a mixture o;
yam and embezzlement boiled up with a clean
picked dramatic bone. There is a littl
ooly Adelaide in the drama, and a little
Isaiah Cohen, but there is nothing new. Th
story begins with a murder and an unpleasan
body lying in a paddock, while a horsey ruffian
canters at the rate of two knots an hour in pur
suit of a criminal, and a Cockney kneels beside
toe dead gentleman and prophesies. In thi
prologue a great point has been missed. The
victim should die leaning up against a corner o:
the room, and then he could stand there all through
he drama, and only be discovered to be dead in
he last act when the housemaid goes to dust him
he murderer, coming along at intervals, woulc
hus have his enemy always before him, and woulc
? * e Pt in ceaseless anguish lest he should fall to
Pteces and thereby betray the fact that he is not
much alive as he used to be. When a change
scene takes place the deceased might be humpec
°hg and planted conspicuously in his new loca-
tion by a man who imagined him to be simply
Wc'n s ’ilky, and thus a startling novelty
i n °hid be introduced without outraging probabilities
hny way. The six acts which make up the play
cpnt occu Pi e d chiefly by the frantic efforts of a
rtam chevalier—generally alluded to as the
som Vy v aar ~~ to beep down the lamented but
me what obtrusive deceased, for the latter shows
bf.f. Cn «i ey t 0 r i se ’ which suggests that he has
an n Ailed with yeast. There are minor items of
a “Ki ’ ,00 ’ chiefly in relation to what is termed
and i? °°nun’ bid ” —which ’is ’owls is horful —
man • woes w hich descend on the foreign noble-
the I ?? uce him to bang his chivalric head against
the f a i n t with one leg doubled up and
too h tu a P 10a( l ° u t- Things are complicated,
la tr y , 6 Introduction of another deceased who
min ns Incog-, hut ultimately the two pro-
d P , ‘ j'nners are run in, and a holy beery calm
spends upon the scene.
* * ■*
• -Dampier plays the part of a fossilised
r °ost f j S Parent, whose head offers an attractive
°nt of°iv the es ’ an( l he makes a decided success
sents parent. Mr. Stoneham repre-
charmi,, * Chevy-Liar,” and Miss Dampier is
where a , as tlie mistress of a humble home
table. T stale l° af for two is spread on a small deal
°btru S iv aBUy ’ iss Merton appears as an large
seats th 6 I Jf female, while Miss Russell repre-
sent tr> ® chevalier’s daughter, and both do their
0 make “The Sins of the City” a really
high-class performance—which not even 100-horse
power genius could, accomplish.
■SL. J L, .A/, A/,
'A' 'TV' '/V -TV*
The Farley Opera Company, transplanted
from the New Masonic to Sydney Gaiety, blos-
somed forth into “ Carmen ” on Saturday night.
There is always a sentimental interest attached tc
this opera from the fact that its author, who had
made one wretched failure, had written this to re-
deem his reputation. This “ Carmen ” did, but
its author knew not his triumph—he died a fort-
night before the opera was produced. Sadly we
wished on Saturday that some of the present per-
formers had done the same. For the performance
is very uneven : occasionally it dragged very
much, and at other times it was dragged. Mr.
Farley as Escamillo (his World Renowed Imper-
sonation) looked lovely all through, and occasion-
ally, ljke the Are in Newcastle, succeeded in
bringing down the house, but there were periods
when a very Carmenthusiasm, not to say frigidity,
hovered in the gilded auditorium, and when
Anally Escamillo was called out (a la Clarke) to
have a private interview with the furious bovine
in the Plaza del Toro, there seemed even to be
some in the cultured circle who would have
backed the bull for choice.
* * *
Carmen, Miss Brandon, helped the show
along tremendously, and this is the more to her
credit when it is considered that about half her
time she was making love to Don Jose—a situation
that could not fail to carry with it a depressing
inAuence. Apparently Don Jose is not one of Mr.
Walshe’s “World Renowned Impersonations,” for
he looks about as happy in the character as a
Cabinet Minister with his head in chancery. Mr.
Walsh e can sing, undoubtedly, and his Agure is as
though made to order for operatic purposes, but
his acting,, consisting as it does of a series of more
or less unsuitable attitudes, is not at present cal-
culated to “take well and give pleasure to all.”
Among the other statuary at the Gardens he would
no doubt be more interesting than Brickhill’s Baby
or Piddington’s latest oration. Miss Florence Sey-
mour makes a melodious Micaela, but her habit of
bending forward in an
Alexandra limp stylo
does not lend any ad-
ditional beauty to her
appearance. The pas
seul of Miss Blanche
Thompson was one of
the nicest items of the
show, but the desired
repetition was not
given.
■TV* *7Y* '7V'
Emelie Melville,
Verdi, Armes Beau-
mont and Co. have
been doing very brisk
business at Melbourne
Opera House. The
public’s affection for
“ Maritana,” the “Bo-
hemian Girl,” and
“La Perichole ” is of
the enduring kind. Or
perhaps it is their
affection for Miss
Melville which has
pulled them in to hear,
see, and enthuse over
her, in the operas
aforesaid. Anyway,
there has been a merry
rattle at the pay boxes
for the last three or
four weeks. A Miss
Colborne Baber en-
joyed the distinction of
being Maritana. She
warbles prettily enough. One of these days she may
be able to act prettily enough. At present Miss
Baber is hardly up to the form of the House of
Peers in Good King George’s glorious days (lolan-
the). She certainly does nothing in par-tic-u-lar,
but it isn’t done very well. No matter—there are
other young ladies in the same predicament. Mr.
Robert Brough will take over management ere
many weeks are fled. He arrived in London on
the 7th August, and 12 days later the Brough-
Boucicault company sailed for the Sunny South.
This was nimble work. Brough intends to make
the Triumvirate sit up.
* * *
The Majeronis have just closed their
season at the Bijou (Melbourne). They opened
well with “Elizabeth,” but few of the other bills
have fetched ’em to any alarming degree. The
Governor has given more consistent patronage
than the gallery. It is the honourable misfortune
of Signora Majeroni that she plays over the heads
of a considerable proportion of the public. They
speak respectfully of her talents, but lay out their
money in opera bouffe. Yet, if Madame Modjeska
were to play a “star engagement” in Australia,
she would draw like a leech. And of the two
really brilliant Anglo-furrin artistes, we give our
little palm to Signora Majeroni. She has much of
the power of Modjeska. Moreover, she is lighter in
comedy, and speaks English more pleasingly than
Madame.
* * *
“ Hoodman Blind” has more than re-
newed its Sydney success at Melbourne Royal.
Mr. William Elton, a fresh importation, takes
Greville’s place. Mr. Elton is particularly unob-
trusive for a low comedian. He scores quietly—-
but he scores deep. All the fair sex insist upon
being taken to see “ Hoodman Blind.” They have
got wind of its great moral lesson. Never believe
evil of your “ old woman.”- On September 2 Mel-
bourne is invited to a grand Shakespearian feast
at the Royal—an intellectual banquet. Tither-
adge takes a benefit, and appears as “ Gimlet ”
the melancholy Prince of Denmark,
#AL AL A/,
'7V‘ '7V* 'A'
“The Great Divorce Case” continues to draw well at
Sydney Opera House. O’Gorman’s maternal nightmare-in-
law grows more rampant every day, and the housekeeper,
who is herself a warlike female, compounded from equal parts
of dust-bin and crack-of-doom, feels that she cannot stand
the situation much longer. This lady’s devotion to her em-
ploye.’s interest is supremely touching. The dead dog is the
weakest part of the comedy. He is palpably and obtrusively
wooden, and when he is kicked by his murderer, he gives
out a sound like a chest of drawers falling on top of the
Soudan contingent. Miss Watt-Tan ier, who plays the part
of Mrs. Graham, is a great improvement on the dog, for she
is not at all wooden, but is the most vivacious and charm-
ing of grass-widows, and we sympathise with her sorrow at
the death of the timber pup.
•M- AG AA AL
'TV* '7V* W W
Federal Minstrels, at Sydney Academy, have the inevitable
new programme, which, however, does not present many new
features. Mr. Amery now sings “ I’ll Await My Love,” but
this melodious assertion is a fraud, for we afterwards saw the
young lady doing the waiting at she leant against the ad-
jacent ham-shop. Alf. Lawton has also a good song, the
subject being an oxy-hydrogen individual termed “The
Windy Man," and following this comes “The Rivals,” a
nigger farce, which is beginning to suffer from internal bald-
ness. The point of the joke—but jokes must not be ex-
plained.
AL .aL
"Tv Tr 'Tv'
Nilsson, aged 42, has been married in London to Count
Casa Miranda.
On dit that Carl Rosa, J. L. Toole, and Mr. Bancroft are
to be knighted.
Frank Towers has died in India, and, sad to tell, his wife is
bedridden there.
Phil. Day, we deeply regret to hear, has been struck by
paralysis at Adelaide.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera will be staged at Mel-
bourne Princess almost immediately.
Miss Lydia Thompson and her daughter Miss Tilbury (who
is ill) are said to meditate a trip to Australia.
iu^fn Sma ,nf subject of the Queen —smaller even
than lorn Thumb—is being exhibited in Newcastle, N.S.W.
Patti has been married only a few weeks, and yet she has
lini ChUdren ' 1 ley form erly belonged to another Mrs. Nico-
Jn 1868 Patti and Nilsson wrestled privately for a wager—a
lnck° nd braCelet Nilsson and put Patti fairly on her
The more violent anti-German of the Paris papers declare
that it was Wagners music that drove poor King Louis off
his head.
There is a woman in a circus, in Paris, who jumps from
one horse to another while the horses are going round the
ring m opposite directions.
.Sophie Eyre, the fascinating actress, “ who is suing her
new husband for divorce," is described by an American
paper as having ‘ a generous English foot."
The resumption of business in Sydney by the Lynch
Family is delayed by the unfortunate illness of one of the
band of brothers. He is now reported as convalescent.
Mr. F. J. Hallewell, the eminent basso, has unfortunately
broken his ankle. The usual announcement as to the
graceful letter of sympathy” received by him from Lord and
Lady Oarington has appeared in the papers.
“ Little Nell, the Californian Diamond,” who was in Aus-
tralia a few years ago, is now known as Miss Helen Dauvray.
Though of English parentage, she made a successful appear-
ance in french in Paris, and is now a New York manageress.
George Rignold has distinguished himself in N.Z. by thrash-
ing a wife-beater. Were George not so "handsome,” the
lady would, we suppose, inevitably have given him the black
eye with which ladies usually reward those who try to chas-
tise their husbands.
Republicanism is getting so hot in France that a showman
has been pulled up by a Gallic Dogberry for advertising a
“ royal” Bengal tiger. He had to re-christen the brute as a
‘ national tiger ” before he was allowed to finish his lie about
th number o f niggers it had eaten.
The following occurs in the marriage contract between
Patti and Nicolini:—Each is to retain their private fortune ;
if children are born, the surviving party is to have only a life
interest in'the estate of the other; if there are no children
born, the survivor inherits the whole estate.
Mr George Forbes, who has been long absent from Sydney
has written a second play, to be performed at Melbourne
Bijou. The play is entitled “The Philanthropist." That
vein has been pretty well worked, what with “The Candi-
date,” “The Magistrate,” “The—any number more of them.
Mr. Herbert Flemming is to have a matinee benefit at
Sydney Royal on this Saturday. 11. E. has been secured,
also the Admiral and officers of the Fleet. The
benefit is tendered by Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove, in recognition of Mr Flemming’s abilities
as an actor. We trust that a bumper house will face
Mr. Flemming.
There are now eight theatres in full swing in Syd-
ney. In saintly Adelaide, where, by the way, the
racing-men have resolved to boycott the clergy until
the latter withdraw their op josition to the totalisator
there are but three,
and two of those are
tenanted only by
rats. There is some
talk that the other
will be turned into
a church—or a gaol
for saints before
long.
Divorce
Case.
I AP mte reB *'* n ® extension of Sabbath desecration will be
| made at Sydney Gaiety on Sunday, sth, by H. J. Samuell and
Knight Aston. Mrs. Atkinson, Miss Denzil, Mr. Holland, and
| Knight Aston himself are all in it, and the redoubtable
| Captain M Laughlin (he of the fearsome adventures), Mr.
Arthur Gordon, the sketchist, and Mr William Radcliff are
among the specialists. -
Yet another version of “ His Natural Life.” One of
Marcus Clarke’s executors, after going out of his way to say
i unkma things of Mr. Leitch’s successful version, announces
I that his own version, the real genuine and startling pure-
bred article this time, is to be produced in Lo don. Who
was it witnessed, the contract giving Mr. Leitch the sole
right of producing his (Mr. Leitch’s) adaptation in Eng-
i land?
‘ A semi-theatrical item. The trial of the notorious Mrs.
Taylor caused a considerable fluttering among Melbourne
mashers. Lots of unvenerable old dawgs, too, were to be
observed dodging around the court, wondering how things
were looking. She has many warm supporters among the
upper suckles, has dear Mrs. Taylor. They love and respect
her on account of what she knows. The unfortunate Julia
Warburton, who died under the old lady’s assiduous atten-
tions, was playing small burlesque parts at St. George’s Hall,
Melbourne," not so very long ago.
The leading trick in the repertoire of Paul Cinquevalli con-
sists m balancing a bottle on the top of his bump of venera-
tion, and a glass full of water on top of the bottle. Without
upsetting either of these he slowly bends, and with his teeth
picks up a glass full of something in the liquor-line off the
floor, and, gradually rising, drinks whatever the glass con-
tams without touching it with his hands. This trick “took
well at first, but the fearful spectacle of seeing a human
being compelled to smell his liquor for about ten minutes
before he can get a taste is so horribly tantalizing that
suicide has risen 20 per cent., and Paul will probably be com-
pelled to either shut his show or take his medicine after the
prompt and decisive style of a Mudgee alderman.
The N.S.W. Trades Unions talk of boy-
cotting a certain Sydney daily.
The marriage of Miss Pattie Lewis and
Captain James Fotheringham (lately an otiicer of
the Ly-ee-Moon) is to take place on Wednesday,
7th inst.
For a little while past certain smart and
plausible Melbourne speculators have been trying
to “manage” a first-class, and so far most re-
munerative, Queensland gold mine without refer-
ence either to the Sydney directors or the man
locally in charge. The affair, which has caused
much excitement in mining circles, seems par-
tially owing to a check in the regularity of the
dividends, which check is, of course, attributed to
mismanagement and not to want of golden stone ■
BRIEF MENTION.
A Parliamentary question : “ Will you
come outside ?”
A Sydney “practitioner” advertises;—
“ Vitality positively cured.’
Jennings’ Centenary scheme—fifteen days
solid drunk, and the Bondi sewer thrown in.
A new lighthouse at Cooktown. We pre-
sume they want to raise the wreck-average.
Berry’s voice is now “permanently
husky.” No wonder —its owner is now perma-
nently “seedy.”
Mrs. Hope, a nurse in the Mudgee Hos-
pital, lias resigned. Hope has also resigned in
Melbourne Hospital.
Sydney Evening News describes Mr,
Abigail as “the best watchdog of the N.S.W,
Assembly.” The most yapping cur generally
makes the best watch-dog.
The Sydney Echo, in its mad scramble
after novelty, has started a column headed
“N’ Importe.” This, by the way, would make a
capital heading for the whole paper.
The democracy of the Sydney Globe is
seemingly of a very shoddy order. The paper
urges the N.S.W. Premier to support a Centenary
Exhibition and have it opened by —the Prince of
Wales !
In the printed bill-form of a Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) boniface tho items run thus; “Break-
fasts, dinners, teas, beds, refreshments, cash
lent.” Curiously enough, there is no item in the
shape of “interest.”
A correspondent of the S.M. Herald
declares that the services at St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral are quite “heavenly.” We presume from
this that the Cathedral authorities have abolished
the collection-boxes.
Extract from an English “ Wesley Chapel”
Sunday-school-treat-and-sports bill: —“N.B.—-All
games offensive or of an immoral tendency, such
as kissing games, dancing, racing, or football, will
be strictly prohibited.”
The saintly Melbourne D. T. says of a local
parson, “ He has a remarkably strong hold upon
the feminine portion of his con-
gregation.” Many clergymen
are built that way. The hold
is especially strong after the
tea-meeting is over.
We have a rev. gentle-
man reported as saying that
“all Christians should advertise
the Lord’s work.” That is so ;
but they shouldn’t do it, as in
the case of the Adelaide saints,
by means of the Criminal Court
and Dry Creek Gaol.
A remarkable New Guinea
idol has been brought to Cook-
town (Q.) by a missionary. It
is made of brown earthenware,
with a large projecting handle,
and is completely hollow. A
careful calculation has shown
that this deity ' will hold two
quarts of beer.
On the strength of recent ‘ ‘ political in
telligence” from New South Wales, Sir Henry-
Loch has instructed the Victorian Cabinet to pm
themselves under the charge of Professor Miller.
A punching-machine, to be stationed in the read
ing room, has been placed upon the Estimates.
“ I will back myself for £lO or under to
eat hot pudding against all comers. E. Jackson
Gray-street, Newtown.” — Evening News advt
There is a bull-pup at this office that could be
backed to eat almost anything against anybody.
But, unlike that Newtown man, Toby the pup is
not such a fool as to spoil his digestion by eating
things that are too hot.
The aborigines’ mission at Maloga, on the
Murray (N.S. W.), issues its eleventh gushing report
•as to the outpouring of blessing in that region—
outpouring of whisky not mentioned. There are
150 so-called natives residing at the station, and
of these 106 are half-breeds, of whom 50 have
been born since the mission was established.
Divine Providence again.
The Border Watch (S.A.) reports that a
volanco threatens to start near Glenluce on the
Loddon, so Australia may soon rival New Zea-
land in everything except its bankruptcy and its
unwashed prophet. Craig Phadric, in Scotland,
is also waking up; while a so-called extinct
volcano in America, and two ditto in Iceland, are
following suit. The bowels of the earth are
helping Mayor Young to celebrate the Queen’s
Jubilee.
An absurd person, calling himself “ A
Cambrian, alias Cymrian,” is permitted to
suggest to the readers of the Sydney D. T. that
the Colony of New South Wales should, at its
centenary, be re-named “East Cambria,” “Es-
cambria,” or “ Great Cambria.” If the name of
the colony is to be changed, let us all hope that
Wales and Welshmen will be steered clear of
altogether. It is true that “Taffy was a Welsh-
man, Taffy was a thief ” ; but it is not true that
the “first families” of New South Wales were
all Welshmen.
“ Protestant,” writing to the editor of
the S.M. Herald, commences thus:—“Sir,—
Nearly every three or four months you generously
open your columns to the discussion of some
subject or other connected with the Church of
England.” “ Nearly every three or four months ! ”
Why, we never open the Herald without run-
ning against a discussion about some theological
question, except when there has been a rush of
Congregational tea-meetings and testimonial pre-
sentations, which, under all circumstances, seem
to have an indefeasible claim to as much space as
they can be made to oover. “ Protestant ” must
assuredly be a most sarcastic young man.
N.S.W. juries please copy. At Mel-
bourne Central Criminal Court, a Swede was
charged with unlawfully wounding a Norwegian.
There were certain extenuating circumstances
about this case, and the jury had, collectively
speaking, a tender heart. So before giving a ver-
dict, they threw out a “feeler” to the judge, and
asked him what was the maximum amount of
punishment for unlawfully wounding. His Honor
was horrified at such vulgar impertinence. It
was the jury’s task to find a verdict, and his, his
business to pass sentence. They ought to have
placed implicit confidence in his Honor, no doubt.
In the eye of the law, the gentlemen on the
Judgment Seat is a masterpiece of infallibility.
But this particular jury—remembering that “the
quality of mercy is not strained ” —mistrusted his
Honor’s clemency. There was no fear of an Aus-
tralian judge not doing his duty, but there was a
fear that he might overdo it. So they returned
into court with a verdict of [\not guilty,”


Pepper
Salt
The Earl of Rosebery has told the Australian
Agents-General a few plain facts about the
Queen. They had got to the third bottle at one
of those Imperial Federation feeds, when the
noble Earl perorated as follows “ She repre-
sents to us that home happiness on which, in
reality, British society rests. . . . I do not
nood to tell you that for nearly half a century
the Queen has shared the sorrows and the joys,
the toils and the glories, of her subjects, all over
the world.” Ah 1 but there s something the
Queen doesn’t share with us—
There is a dear old lady on a Queens-
land station whose tales are so circumstantial
that they are frequently believed. This is
her last “ When I was young, and not
bad-looking, say in ’54 or ’55, there were wax-
works in Bourke-street, Melbourne. The police
had a waggonette for taking the prisoners from
the lock-up to the gaol, and had to pass the door
of the show. Now, one day, Mr.
Nicholson was driving the trap,
when he saw a thief take a
pocket-book from a gentleman
coming out of the bank just op-
posite that door. Quick as light-
ning, he jumped down, but the
thief was quicker, and bolted
into the Waxworks, and mixed
with the crowd upstairs. I was
among the sightseers, and
wondered why we were locked
in and kept 10 minutes, whilst
four or five policemen walked
about among us, looking eagerly
into every face. We were then
ordered to make an exit and
Nicholson stood at the door. Just
then an extraordinary thing hap-
pened. One of the bushrangers
(I had thought they were wax
figures) stepped over the rope
and offered me his arm and escort
down stairs. I was so astonished
that I accepted, and had reached
the street when I asked him how
he had come to be among the
figures. Alas ! that question pat
him away , as he called it, for he
was the pick-pocket and had
jumped in among the waxen
gang and put on one of their
cabbage-tree hats in exchange
for his own. He had escaped
detection by standing stock-still.
Iwas sorry for the poor fellow,
for he looked upon me as if I had
robbed him. Mr. Nicholson heard
my question, and pounced on him
at once. The pocket-book con-
tained £lOOO, and even now I
almost wish I had not ques-
tioned him but had simply bowed
‘ good-bye v ’ ”
* * *
A CRUSHER FOR THE
CENSUS.
Some men write to the
papers letters that do good,
others, letters that do neither
good nor harm, and others still,
letters that are as seven vials of
assorted evils poured out upon
the land. To this last class belongs
a man who wrote to the Mel-
bourne Age the other day, suggesting that the
drivers of furniture-vans should be compelled to
report at the Town Hall the addresses of houses
from which, and to which, furniture is removed
by them. This seems a small matter, and yet it
contains the germs of general desolation and
dragon-eyed ruin. Let us mourn on the fact in
quiet quatrains :
The Northern Miner (Q.) tells a pathetic
story of life in that tropical land. Ten years ago
a young Irishman married a pretty girl in Syd-
ney, and three months afterwards wont up to
Charters Towers to push his fortune, while his
waiting wife wept over the absence of her lord
and masher. The adventurer landed at Towns-
ville, and camped the first night beside a creek,
where a depraved alligator stole his blankets.
Next day ho started for “ The Towers,” and in
crossing a stream, he lost all his worldly goods
—one suit of clothes, a billy, and a blue handker-
chief —and stood on the banks of the Burdckin in
the garb of Adam before the fall. He then bor-
rowed a suit from a missing blackfellow —said suit
consisting chiefly of one large hole and 16 small
ones —and was next heard of in a shaft at Mary
Flat, where a bucket was dropped on His head
before dinner-time. He was taken tothe hospital,
and then —the doctor being absent—was put
into the dead-house, while a kind friend wont
down and ordered a deal 6x2. Next morning,
however, the undertaker arrived and
found no corpse, only an empty shanty
with the door open and the tracks of a
dozen pigs all around. The sorrowing
friends of the pig-swallowed deceased,
on seeing this, simply remarked that the
hogs had eaten him, and went away. Now,
however, he has turned up again, and
the fortune he was to have made for
the little wife in Sydney consists, up
to date, of only a copper watch, a
JAWBONE (loq.) “WE CAN’T MAKE IT BOIL.”
| bogus chain, and 400 shares in the Gone Bung
G. M. Co., Limited. Meanwhile, the lady is ad-
j vertising that she means to marry again if he does
I not return, and he frankly responds that the idol
of his heart may wed a gaol-flogger or a C.M.G.
| and be for all he cares. One more sweet
romance is thus busted up.
* * *
A squatter in Northern N.S.W. takes the
leather medal for political economy. On his
freehold property is a private burial-ground,
| where the rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep,
[ and this gentleman has carefully levelled the
} ground and planted it with fruit-trees. As a con-
sequence he is turning each rude forefather into
pine-apples, and is growing bananas out of
measles, and transposing defunct stockrider into
apricot in a way that is far from being appre-
ciated in the district. The experiment has tended
to confirm the belief previously entertained in
many quarters that peaches thrive best on
rheumatism and bronchitis ; while pears should
i be treated with a top-dressing of consumption,
and the subsoil enriched with the mysterious
swagman who is found dead in the bush —swag-
j men being especially recommended for young trees.
| More valuable discoveries are expected which
[ may throw an entirely new light on the fruit
• business, and, as all attempts to suppress this
I enterprising squatter by legal means have failed,
j he will probably continue to irrigate the tombs
until some day he is buried himself, and then
turned into cabbage and sold by a Chinaman.
* * *
Alexander Crooks, the ex-bank manager
of Adelaide, has done with Scripture texts for
ever. Since his incarceration he has become a
new man, dear friends. Realising that the old
piety game can avail him no more, Crooks has re- i
formed. When they brought him up from the
cells the other day to give evidence in the Barton
case, he amused the “ coppers” by making comic
sketches of the leading people in court. He pro-
duced a faithful representation of Judge Bundey’s
mouth, and described it as a “jam taster.” Yes,
the once puritanical psalm smiter is now a
humourist of the first water. We heard a tale
yesterday, altogether too-too for reproduction in
these columns, which was given to us as “ Crooks’
latest.” It is really comforting to find that penal
servitude can so purify a man’s nature. We
must congratulate Crooks.
The members of the
Ormond College Debating Club,
Melbourne, have decided that
“ the modern stage is demoral-
ising in its tendency.” This
verdict is endowed with double
significance, owing to the fact that
the leading debaters, including the
chairman, have never been inside a
theatre. If there is any truth in the old
proverb that lookers-on see more than
the players, it perhaps follows that the people who
never look on must be the keenest critics of all.
For instance, Mr. Meek (that is the sweetly ap-
propriate name of the chairman) is “ shocked by
the scant dresses of the actresses.” Never having
wandered into temptation, Meek is capable of
passing a calm, unbiased opinion on these mat-
ters, whereas, if he had ever seen an opera bouffe
he would not have been shocked. Tights would
then have been his ideal of feminine clothing.
Another moving spirit in this debate has gathei eel
his information about the drama “from photo-
graps in the shop windows, and these he considers
are not by any means elevating.” Such an argu-
ment is unanswerable. In the same way we have
formed our notion of the British Constitution
from the Queen’s photographs, and we don’t find
them elevating. But this is a digression. Mr.
Meek and his disciples have decided that the
drama is demoralising. Pass the banjo :
We are threatened with a new disease.
Some of the Victorian senators are agitating for
the importation of London constables “ to instruct
Melbourne police in the management of street
traffic. ” There is a certain description of street
traffic which the London “ copper ” understands
thoroughly. He makes money out of it, too. But
we don’t want this system introduced into Aus-
tralia.
JUST THE DIE.
Fortunate creatures are we,
Blest very much, it appears ;
A lady lives over the sea
Sharing our hopes and bur fears.
She thinks of us here in the South,
When we are pleased she is glad ;
But when we are down in the mouth
The Queen is uncommonly sad.
Oh, yes!
She’s really uncommonly sad.
Very few monarchs you’d find
Playing so pretty a part:
How she must dote on her kind
To take all their troubles to heart!
But though she is willing to share
(In fancy) our glories and toils,
She doesn’t, as all are aware,
Believe in dividing the spoils.
Oh, no!
She don’t like division of spoils.
Farewell to life a la free-lance,
Young folks befitting—
The baffled bailiff, the romance
Of moonlight flitting.
Good-bye to cottages orne
In suburbs quiet,
With little gardens, far away
From city riot.
Adieu to credit —no more now !
And gay dun-dodgings;
Young couples must —no matter how —
Live now in lodgings.
For when this wicked scheme gains ground—
Believe these verses !
In Melbourne will bo heard a sound
Of toars and curses.
The maiden will provide the tears,
As fit and just is,
“ Pa says,” she’ll sob, “ that if ten years
We wait, Augustus,
“ He’d rather keep me still, though poor,
In food and raiment,
Than have us get our furniture
Upon time-payment,
“ To be swept off, as it would be,
He says, for sale, if
The law stands that no longer we
May bluff the bailiff.
“ And so from me, Gus. dearest, fly !
No longer tarry!
Be happy with some other, I
Will never marry.
“ At least not —though I dote on you,
You’ve not a cent, dear—
Until I get a husband, who
Can pay his rent, dear.”
Then you may bet your life that youth
Will swear right roundly,
And, so to speak, with nail and tooth
Curse most profoundly.
And straightway he will take to drink,
That wretched lover,
And caper on perdition’s brink,
Till he falls over.
And when his life comes to a halt,
He’ll sleep his solemn
Last sleep in no snug fam’ly vault—
A broken column
Will mark his place of rest: whereby
The consequence is
That he’ll unmarried live and die,
And cheat the census !
Ah ! Mr. Alexander Crooks,
Deceptive things, indeed, are looks—
Though once so staid and saintly,
Yet now that all disguise is vain,
You give your spirits vent again
And carry on quite quaintly.
For many years you wore a mask
And snuffled scripture o’er your task
(Which task was faking figgers.)
But now you have been put away,
The warders never hear you pray—
Your psalms are changed to sniggers.
And Mr. C., upon the whole,
We like you in your latest role
Far more than in the other ;
A really subtle sense of fun
Is not enjoyed by everyone—
We hail you as a brother.
If Crooks the Hypocrite is dead,
And, bright and merry, in his stead
Your new self has arisen,
Although confined by bolts and bars,
You ought to thank your lucky stars
That Crooks was sent to prison.
ADVICE TO THE PLAYERS.
This is a singular age,
Which has given birth to debaters
Who get in a rage
With the tone of the stage,
Yet never set foot in theatres ;
Queerly qualified critics arc they
To pick with the drama a quarrel,
And without, as they say,
Having witnessed a play,
Condemn the whole lot as immoral.
Players, the picture reverse
And work yourselves into hysterics—
Be careful to curse
At the follies (and worse)
Of long-coated, sallow-cheeked clerics;
Mention, as terrible proof
That the drama its duty must grapple,
How hoys hold aloof
From the opera boufie,
But roll up in crowds to a chapel.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Larry Foley has resigned the pugilistic
championship of Australia, and has been promised
the post of Sergeant-at-Arms in the N.S.W.
Assembly.
Mr. T. Rose, President of the new National
Protection Association of N.S.W., is a Free
thinker. Ho is also a native of Parramatta, and
a would-be M.P.
A London Tory paper announces that Sir
A. Stuart was “ Prime Minister of Victoria” at the
time of his death. Quite so. And Burdett Smith
was Emperor of Queensland until quite recently.
Another “representative Australian,”
Mortimer Franklyn, has gone, or is going, to
England, and, it is alleged, thinks of entering the
Commons -with a view, no doubt, of ultimately
getting into the Lords.
The Prince of Wales is “ real mad ” with
his mother for having “condescended” to open
Pillionaire Holloway’s College for Women. Vic-
toria herself is waking up to the fact that she has
been used as a quack-medicine advertisement.
The Colonies and India, in a most com-
plimentary paragraph, laments the death of Pro-
fessor Anderson Stuart, of Sydney. Now, as
everyone knows, it was Mrs. Stuart, and not her
husband the Professor, who unfortunately died.
Bank-thief Crooks, of pious and immortal
memory, is making merry in Dry Creek Gaol. He
made a bet with a fellow-prisoner that lie would
fill a truck in less time than the latter. His mate
wasn’t on, for he saw no chance of the wager
being paid this side of the Styx.
Again has the Governor of New
South Wales performed an action cal-
culated to endear him (“as the repre-
sentative of her Majesty ”) to all loyal
subjects. He has ordered his carriage
to be in constant attendance at Par-
liament Houses, Sydney, for the
purpose of conveying to the hos
pital members punched in the
eye during the sittings of her
Majesty’s Parliament.
Right Hon. W. E. Glad-
stone has a nephew in Melbourne
who is a licensed victualler. His
name is Thomas M. Gladstone,
and he keeps the Southern Cross
Hotel, llourke-street West. The
G. O.M.’s nephew was a drover in
the N.S.W. back-blocks before he
became a married man.
The snobbish and politic-
ally impotent Argus finds com-
fort in the fact that naughty Sir
Charles did not adorn “high
life.” “ The next generation cf
Dilkes,” says the Argus, “might,
in the natural evolution of dis-
tinguished families, have turned out a
gentleman.” Perhaps the Tory journal
will tell us when some of the N.S.W.
or Victorian first families will turn out
a leal gentleman. None of them have
produced a Dilke up to latest dates.
Mrs. Crawford in her evidence
that her little wickedness with Baronet
Dilke began by her paying morning calls
at his residence to talk about “her
benevolent work in Whitechapel.”
That is always the way. The paths
of missionary work seem ever to di-
verge from the strict observance of the
seventh commandment. As far as we
remember, Mrs. Potiphar said she only
called Joseph in to discuss a plan for
the supply of flannel dickies to the little
Soudanese.
Captain Webb’s widow, as was
mentioned lately, has been engaged
by a Niagara hotelkeeper to stand
opposite the place where her husband was
drowned, and sell photographs of deceased. If
the little woman weie to sell her own photo-
graphs, at the same time, they ought to go off
pretty freely. Mrs. Webb comes under the cate-
gory of “ sweet things,” and the wonder is that
she hasn’t been snapped up ere this. We know
her well, Horatio. She and we exchanged love-
tokens in our respective childhoods. Her name—
down, little fluttering heart! —is Madeleine.
If Mayor Young, of Sydney, wants to
estimate his popularity he should go to witness
the exhibition of his portrait by the Federal Min-
strels. His name is received by the fairly repre-
sentative crowds which congregate there with
very much mingled emotion, and the slatingly
severe, not to say howlingly libellous, verses
which are sung while he is on exhibition, are re-
ceived with wild manifestations of approval. Jaw-
bone Neild and “ Wales” also receive very much
qualified applause, but Sir Henry Parkes receives
very gratifying tributes of popularity, or at least
did until he took it into his head to join hands
with the Heathen Chinee.
The Queen is quite wild about the removal
of Prince Alexander from Bulgaria. Considering
their very “dicky” ancestry, it is astonishing
how our eminently Sovereign Lady pats these
Battenbergs upon the back. Prince Louis has
long been a favoured hanger-on at the English
Court. Prince Henry secured the billet of connu-
bial lacquey to our beloved daughter Beatrice.
As for brother Alexander, the Queen hailed his
petty triumphs over the Servians w r ith mad
delight, ’there is only one reasonable explanation
of her infatuation. The Battenbergs are fairly
good-looking. As ladies advance in years they
become more and more susceptible to masculine
charms. We know a dear old thing of 82 who
worships the chair we sit upon.
Mr. Charles Lett (“ Handsome Charlie ”),
once of Sydney, who is now London correspondent
of the Evening News, has blossomed into a very
magnificent personage indeed. In his latest
letter he talks about “ the blustering General Bou-
langer (French Minister of War) whom I know well,”
and says that Captain Loftus (to whom he grovel-
lingly apologises for something said in a previous
literary effort) “is a thorough gentleman in
every sense of the word.” And this paragraph
is especially Oriental in its splendour:—“Sir
Arthur Hodgson told me that the Duke of Bedford
wished the party he had invited to Woburn Abbey
to be “very select.” Now, the Duke assured me
personally that he had expressed no wish what-
ever on the subject.” Bai Jawve !
Adair, the alleged forger, whose race for
liberty made an exciting scene in Sydney Harbour
a few weeks ago, is, as we write, still “ under re-
mand.” That is to say, he is brought up once
every seven days and looked at by the magistrate,


the police, and the gaping public, and then sent
back to the cell, where he puts in twenty-two
hours’ solitary, which is a deal worse. treatment
than that extended to convicted felons. The man
who is “suspected” is taken for granted to he a
scoundrel, and treated accordingly, unless he has
influential friends, which Adair seemingly has not.
This way of dealing with an unfortunate who may
after all be innocent, is no doubt thoroughly Eng-
lish, but it is infamous and inhuman as well, like
many other English customs which have been im-
ported into Australia.
Another vile outrage on the honour of
Australia is reported. Dr. Ahearne, the agent of
the North Queensland Separation League, wails
through half a column of London correspondence
because he has not been invited to a number of
noblemen’s “spreads” like other colonials, lie
thinks he was excluded from these high-toned
guzzles through the enmity of the Agent-General
for Queensland, who has been wiping his large
feet on ducal door-mats while his fellow-colonist
was left to federate in the cow-shed or else stay
at home. Or, if lie chose, he might stand on the
damp grass outside some noble mansion, with the
dew-drops trickling down his aged spine, and
watch a soulless crowd •*f Australians stumping
through the mazy dance within. In our official
capacity we weep over these sad things.
In London the other day, George Coppin,
of Melbourne, got together a lot of colonials at
255. a head, and then let Graham Berry loose on
them afterwards to drivel about Federation. Very
sagaciously, however, he declined to allow the
representatives of the Sydney press to come in
gratis, and even the Melbourne Telegraph was
excluded, owing probably to an old feud. Years
ago that paper was wont to sit heavily on George’s
dramatic show, until one night an infuriated
Coppin came before the curtain and announced to
the audience that there were fourteen Telegraph
dead-heads in the dress circle. At this statement
the five-shilling department blushed en masse, and
since then there has been a coolness between
George and the Telegraph, which has resulted in
that journal paying its ‘ ‘ bob” and going into the pit.
Sir W. J. Clarke, the Victorian Midas, is
building unto himself a gorgeous palace in Wel-
lington Parade, Melbourne. All the art and taste
which mere cash can procure, will be freely
lavished upon this edifice. The very portico is a
poem in itself, the dining and drawing-rooms are
dreams of delight. The banquet-chamber and
ball-room will be arranged in the best English
baronial-hall style. Altogether, the new town
house promises to be a “screamer.” It will
hardly be ready “against” the family’s return
from Yurrup, but ere this year of grace is ended,
Sir William is expected to be in residence. If the
late lamented Clarke could only pay “my son
William ” a visit in his new abode, how the old
man would sit up, to be sure ! lie wouldn’t sit
down, anyway. Native modesty and reverence
for the furniture would forbid such an act of
desecration.
The great Purves, Melbourne’s brow-
beating barrister and newly-appointed Q.C., en-
joyed a novel experience the other night. A
lunatic rang him up at 10 p.m. to tell him he was
a “scoundrel,” also a “dog,” and a “cur.”
Purves was only in his pyjamas, at the time, but
he soon got into a passion as well. Then the
passionate Purves (still in his pyjamas) procured
a poker, and proceeded to prospect around for a
policeman. The lively lunatic, so-called, now lies
languishing under lock and key. Much sympathy
is expressed for Purves over this unparalleled
affront. In his cross-examining capacity he has
been blackguarding his fellow-man with im-
punity for many years. Even our own Verdi
has writhed under the Purvesian lash. But is all
that a just reason why the barrister should him-
self be blackguarded (in his pyjamas) at 10 p.m. ?
Gentlemen of the. j ury, it is for you to decide.
With confidence we leave this case in your able
hands.
A N.S.W. country paper says that tme may
now travel for weeks in the back country without
meeting a single aboriginal. They’re all dead,
and rum has killed them. The only blackfellow
we have heard of who did not die exactly from
rum, was Flatfoot Yarry, a Riverina king, who
started out one day grog-hunting. His rambles
were not very successful, but as he was wearily
and dejectedly returning to bis gunyah, where his
royal consort was already engaged in baking the
vespernal ’possum, he thought he would look in at
the kitchen of the Shearers’ Arms just to see how
things were going on. The first thing that
caught his eye on entering, were four bottles of
his favourite liquor—gin-—standing on the mantel-
piece. He bore them off, and next morning, as
the Turkish patrol, consisting of Sergeant O’Raf-
ferty and Constable O’Donohue, were going off
duty, it came across a corpse, smelling rather
highly of kerosene, lying in the gutter of the main
street. It was Yarry’s !
Another of our dear old delusions has been
ruthlessly swept away by the hand of Time. Un-
til the other day, every loyal subject of Her Most
Gracious thingummy what-you-may-call-’um Re-
gina believed that her eldest son and Heir-
Apparent was a veritable “ whale ” at impromptu
speechmaking. The English papers have jubi-
lated over “Wales’” oratory for the last 20
years. His effusions were variously described as
happy, well-timed, most appropriate, clever, and
altogether-quite-too-much. In flow of language
“ the Prince” was regarded as a formidable rival
to Marc Antony and the Grand Old Man. But,
alas ! the secret is out, and the game is bust up.
It seems that Bertie’s public utterances have been
readied for him by a “ghost.” For a long, long
while the “ghost” performed his duties faith-
fully and well. He copied out neat speeches in a
neat round-hand text, and his royal master got
them off by rote. But an unforeseen accident
occurred in connection with the new Tower
Bridge ceremony. The Prince of Wales arrived at
the scene of action in the full confidence that he
had to-“drive the first pile.” The “ghost’s”
manuscript informed him that a pile required
driving, and he had duly photographed the “few
appropriate words ” upon his royal brain. Some-
one had blundered. Instead of being asked to tap
a block of wood with a golden mallet the per-
plexed Prince was obsequiously desired to tickle
the ground with a silver trowel. “ Isn’t there a
pile to drive?” said Bertie. “No, your Royal
Highness, only a stone to lay.” The speech was a
miserable failure. H.R.H. had to call upon his
own head for a few ideas, and H.R.H.’s head
failed to meet the demand. He drove home with
his reputation gone and his blue blood at fever-
heat. Somebody suffered for that day’s work.
Alas, poor Ghost!
Judge Windeyer says “he happened to
go into a N.S.W. registrar’s office on one occasion
and saw a person being married in his shirt
sleeves by a clerk. This was not giving due
solemnity to the ceremony.” We don’t know
that. It looked as if the bridegroom meant busi-
ness.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The other day Mr.
Abigail, M.L.A., asked
in the N.S.W. Assembly
“ Whether it was true
that there was bear-
wrestling, and that men
were ‘ knocked out’
nightly, at Foley’s box-
ing-rooms.” Foley now
asks Abigail whether it is
true thatmen are knocked
out nightly in the As-
sembly.
Ginger Clarke, M. P., knows how to draw
the Lyne.
The Victorian Premier says the cost of
next year’s census will be £16,000. That’s not
much to pay for the fun of asking women’s .ages.
General Buller has gone to southern Ire-
land “to suppress boycotting.” A thousand to
one that General Boycott boycotts General
Buller. You can t make a horse drink.
The Protectionist Sydney Globe says :
“Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., is a political
neophyte whose enemies attach more importance
to him than his friends do.” Pooh! That’s always
the way. No man is a hero to his valet.
Although Colonial Secretary Dibbs has
been accused of a love for the Chinese, ho is now
their most prominent and relentless foe in the
N.S.W. Assembly. He also knows more concern-
ing their gross immorality than any of the other
members.
W. Clarke, M. P. , evidently thirsts for
power in N.S. W. But W. Clarke, M.P., is just
now in a curious position. With one hand he
clutches the coat-tails of Protection, with the
BOTH YELLOW.
PARKED: “ME HELPEE YOU,
JOHN-ME AN’ YOU ALLEE
SAME COLOUR.”
other he hangs on to the skirts of Parke s, the
great apostle of Freetrade.
“ Lord Castletown ” sends to the London
Times a long groan on the subject of land-con-
fisc.iti n. “The land I now hold,” lie wails,
“ has bun in the possession of my family for over
900 years.” Most people think this is an herelitary
lie, but if it should be true it n really time some-
one else had a turn at own. g . .at land.
Germany, it is cable 1, lias annexe! the
greater part of Patagonia. Patagonia lies be-
tween the devil and the deep sea—partie i..i \y
the former—and should be valuable. There are
not many places left to annex now, but in snots
where the earth is rising some good might be
done by annexing the sea on top of it and waiting
till the land comes up.
The S. M. Herald points out that in Pro-
tectionist America there are about a million
people out of employment. One million out of
55 is less than 2 per cent. In Freetrade England
5 per cent, of the population is in receipt of parish
relief, and out of a population of 30 millions in
Great Britain, excluding Ireland, nearly a million
and a-half of artisans are out of work at this
moment.
While there are
many good men available
for the appointment of
P.M., we don’t see why
any Government should
confer the position on an
influential gentleman
whose brother was hanged
for brutal murder, and
whose father was the
most merciless glutton
at lashing prisoners that
the colony has over
known.
Merao. for the Sydney Freetraders. Mr.
Toohey, M. P., has given notice of his intention to
move in the Victorian Assembly, “That, in the
opinion of this House, owing to the financial pro-
sperity of the colony, it is desirable to abolish the
duties on tea and sugar, in order to carry out the
policy of a free breakfast table, which has long
since been foreshadowed.”
N.S.W. now imports farm-produce at the
rate of £l, GOO, 000 annually. Not many years ago
she exported to Melbourne, instead of receiving
supplies from that port, but now she can neither
grow potatoes nor brains enough to meet local re-
quirements. Premier Jonnings says he is dis-
mayed at this position of affairs, but he “ does not
intend placing any impost on foreign produce at
present.”
The Victorian Ministry lias changed its
“Pooh Bah.” Mr. Dow, who formerly played
the character in a quiet, unobtrusive sort of way,
has resigned one of his billets in favour of Mr.
Gillies. The latter comedian now masquerades in
the quadruple capacity of Premier, Treasurer,
Minister of Mines, and Minister of Railways.
When Gillies quits political fife he might do
well as a “ quick-change artist.”
Ten thousand more British troops are to
he despatched u> Burmah in October. Burmah,
as everybody knows, was conquered and an-
nexed and “ pacified” long ago—
But peace to make it stick at all
Must be druv in by bagnets,
and the British peace, which passeth all under-
standing, is being “druv” accordingly.
Tam worth Observer is of ‘ ‘ opinion that
until N.S.W. is fairly over run by drunken loafers
—a condition into which the Assembly appears to
be drifting of late—she will adhere to her noble
Free-trade scheme.” The only “ product ” which,
according to the same authority, should be pro-
tected is the outcome of genius. In that case, the
Observer would escape protection altogether.
The British troops who went to smash the
Mahdi, and then retired leaving him unsmashed
after all, are now dying like sheep in Egypt. On
one day 10 soldiers went off from sunstroke at
Assouan alone, and 70 are being sent to Cairo as
helpless invalids. When autumn comes there
will be nothing to stop the northward rush of the
dervishes but a barrier of graves. Now for
another Australian Contingent!
A lot of fuss is made about the “thorough-
ness” of that sanctified enactment the twopence-a-
week, Congregational, and “compulsory” N.S.W.
Public Instruction Act. Yet one Sydney suburb
alone, Balmain, can boast of one thousand school-
defaulters. This leaves no room locally for the
usual good little boy, and suggests the question—
If a thousand children absent themselves from
school right under the shadow of the Education
office, how do things stand in the remote bush ?
1 lie Victorian Education Act is a really broad,
national, and well-administered enactment; both
the N.S.W. Act and its administration are shams.
It is cabled that the Commons, by a
majority of 123, have approved of casting out into
the snow during the coming winter such old Irish
women as cannot find money for their landlords
to spend in England.
Writes “ Waratah,” in re the defunct Aus-
tralian movement for a testimonial to the Prince
ol Wales, promoted by the C.M.G.’s now in Lon-
London : “ ‘ What is this disease that has come
upon us?’ We have heard and read lately of
Mayoral banquets, &c., at which the ever-reour-
ring clap-trap, ‘Devoted loyalty to the British
throne, binding the mother country and her
colonies closer together,’ has been the foundation
for the eloquence of the day ; but is the real pulse
of Genuine Australia tapped on these occasions ?
Get away from habitues of the block. ‘ City
Fathers,’ &e. ; go through the bush and take the
sense of five out of six young Australians, and.
see what they have to say about Imperial Federa-
tion.”
Warlike Woods continues to study foreign,
politics in the interests of Victoria. Woods is
especially strong on the Eastern Question, and the
recent crisis brought him promptly to the van.
In his best “no-surrender” style, the intrepid
senator asked Duncan Gillies whether, “in view
of the coup d’etat in Bulgaria, the rifle clubs of the
colony are to bo recognised as portion of the
defences of the colony. ’ Gillies replied with,
statesmanlike vagueness, and Woods breathed
freely. It is believed that a confidential Russian
spy, who had been taking notes in the Strangers’
Gallery, cabled to St. Petersburg the same night.
The White Czar swore thrice (in the Russian
tongue) on learning that the Victorian defences
had been again brought under discussion, and
cabled back for full and particular details about
these rifle clubs, 'there is a deep-rooted hatred
between John Woods and the Czar. His Majesty
believes, and justly believes, that his dreams of
Australian conquest can never be realised while
the ever wakeful Tarbrush is a-watching of him.
Woods is the shadow darkening his royal path.
Perchance the assassin’s dagger—but no ! Since
the last Russian scare Woods wears chain-mail
next to his under-vest.
Rockhampton.
Most people are interested in hearing about a
new goldfield. We are not, for we have been
there before, but as the reefs at Rockhampton,
Queensland, are said to be looking up, speculators
may like to hear something about them. Rock-
hampton, we may mention, is somewhere in
Northern Australia, and is situated in latitude
£7 3s. 2lid., and longitude 9oz. 3dwt. lGgrs. It
lies on the Fitzroy River, and has lied there so
long that it has almost forgotten how to tell the
truth. According to the geography books, it is
bounded on the north by the desert, on the south
by the wilderness, on the east by Sahara, and the
west by a vast expanse of howling desolation, which
howls two higher louder than any other desolation
on record. There is sometimes a little water in the
Fitzroy River, and when some gin and nutmeg are
added to it it is as good a river as anyone could
desire. The principal exports of Rockhampton
are wool and measles, and the imports consist of
anything that can be got on credit. Since the
discovery of Mount Morgan, however, a great
revival has set in, and now everybody is either a
secretary, or a manager, or a director, and the
rest of the people spend their time wandering
about the country looking for outcrops.and indi-
cations. In the principal thoroughfares of the
town it has now become impossible even to in-
dulge in the harmless pastime of swinging a cat
on account of the gold discoveries, for just as
you are getting the impetus on, the gyrating feline
fixes her claws in some passing speculator and
rends him. Throwing pails of slops from up; er
windows is also prohibited, for such an act is
certain to result in drenching an unsuspecting
battery-manager below. In some districts outside
the town, the stranger would do well to avoid
nocturnal rambles. If he is given to such amuse-
ments, he presently finds himself stepping upon
nothing in particular; then, after a second o
awful suspense, he cleaves the ambient atmos
phere a..d rushes wildly down into the old red
sandstone period of the earth’s geology, and after
a fearful fall of six feet, or, perhaps, even
seven, he lands all in a heap among the fossils
below. When such an incident occurs the new-
el*l™ may be certain that he has fallen into the
entire assets, of a company with a capital of
£30,000 in 00,000 shares of 10s. each, 2s. Od. paid up
and the balance due in calls of Id. per share at
intervals of not less than a month. When he has
lifted himself out of this limited liability trap he
must keep a keen look out, oi' he will presently
rail o\ er the company’s pe3tle and mortar (it is
generally called in the. prospectus a twenty-five-
stamper battery, with one Berdan and two
Wheeler pans, but that' is only the Queensland
name for an iron-bowl, with a life-preserver
to mash up the specimenj). The importance
of a company may be known by the
number of shafts it possesses. Three is about the
average, but a wealthy corporation may have as
many as six or eight varying in depth from four to
nine-and-a-half feet. It never occurs to the Rock-
hampton miner that if he put his shafts on top of
each other he would get down faster, and if this
view of the case is laid before him he very natur-
ally points out that if he got down a long way he
would have to waste all the more time in getting
up again. The last dividend paid in this district
was in the year 27 b.c., and another is therefore
nearly due.
No correct estimate has yet been made of the
average yield on the Rockhampton goldfield. The
returns vary from 3oz. per ton, when a company
is being floated, to 2dwt. after the capital is all
called up and the Bank has resolv ed not to allow
any further increase of the overdraft. It gener-
ally rises again to ioz., or even more, while the
liquidators are calling for tenders for the pur-
chase of the mine, and after that all is desolation
The district, however, is a rising one as is
clearly demonstrated by, an examination ’of the
fossil beds in the vicinity, and it offers many
inducements to a hermit of retiring habits who
has grown weary of the hollow world, and lows
for peace. In fact, the peace which now reigns in
Central Queensland is of the kind which passeth
all understanding, and except for the wild excite-
ment attendant on an occasional funeral there is
nothing to break the solemn still., jss which non
vades the land. per ‘
Australia will, we think, be delighted with
the volume of poems shortly to ho published bv
Mr John Farrell. J


Wanted a Bishop—Apply Melbourne.
EVEN THE WEVEWEND AMINADAB SCORNS THAT BISHOP’S HAT. THEY’LL HAVE TO GET PETER CAMPBELL, AFTER ALL.




“IMPERIAL FEDERATION"-OR
AUSTRALIAN KANGAROO (tog.): “I SUPPOSE THIS MEANS BEING


TYING THEIR TALLS.
DRAGGED BACKWARDS BY THAT BIG BEAST."
SUPPLEMENT TO THE BULLETIN (SYDNEY, N.S.W.) 4TH SEPTEMBER, 1886 .




//
cJ/ie inSrfat/OTz To (Tome,
— ZtZ V/fa/fOT? CL CCCjofecl .
(^7l/b 7^ r //n, diyn "
/ '' S’ / * ___
C/ 7/7Z r C£v£ //" {jf<~zr£;e /.
e/j?
,
* Z«r£/ess ***** <&'*'***/US of
A Deliberative Assembly.
“RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT" IN N.S.W.


A KING’S WORD.
(A Legend of Woolloomooloo.)
T was in the last days of Wullah Mullah (now spelt Woolloomooloo),
where now are the groat gardens that stretch away East towards tlio Most
Beautiful Harbour In The World. Just below what we call Potts Point, are to bo
seen two dusky figures. The man was armed in the ancient style. A small
fire flickered on the beach, and brought out the two figures black against
the sky. The lady had that regal grace of Australian queens that cannot be
taught. The night was magnificent; and the reader will, of course, infer that
it is the old story. You arc wrong, dear readers. It is a tale of harrowing
disappointment. There is little gaiety in it, and, beyond all, the story is
literally true.
It goes back to the days when Sydney had
no name—say 90 or 100 years ago. There had
been a war waged between the old tribe around
Port Jackson and another whose head quarters
were almost where Penrith is now situated. It
was some trouble about the fishing grounds on the
Parramatta River ; and it was complicated with
some old dispute, immaterial to this history, and
now forgotten. Wullah Mullah’s daughter was
reckoned a beauty, and the son of the old chief up
in Parramatta had more than once thrown a
boomerang up moon wards to get a horoscope of
his chances. For some time it returned in the
most eccentric curves. Instead of a straight flight
back, after the usual swinging about it
came wobbling. There was no tradition of this,
and the young fellow began to doubt the exist-
ence of the Devil. But one day, after the boomerang
had been blessed by the oldest chief in the district,
it began to display an astonishing return to com-
mon-sense. Instead of coming home half-intoxi-
cated, it began to take immense sweeps. Tribes
came from near and far to watch the wonder.
Sometimes it took a day to come back. Hundreds
would sit around the camp-fire, awe-struck. The
lover, having once thrown the mystic weapon,
remained in his last attitude. The ’possum burnt
on the coal, the fish frizzled to charcoal, the chief
forgot to tell tiie lie of the chief liar of Carpen-
taria, and everyone watched the South. A dark
spot on the horizon.
A thrill. A whish! The thrower springs into the air and seizes the weapon. He
vanishes into the forest, and none dare follow him. We will.
Miss Wullah Mullah had attended the mission school, and had learned to write.
Odd nights, when the fair moon told the old tale over gunyah and river, the Northern chieftain would
silently steal from the rug of his fathers, and, with no equipage beyond a piece of dried fish and
a spear, betake him south to woo the fair daughter of the king of Wullah Mullah. But the king
was wary. He himself had in youth wedded the daughter of a Wagga chief under
dubious circumstances. But there were two in the affair, and he was not to blame. When one
man approaches a mia-mia from the east, and another from the west, and both raise a waddy
together to stupefy her and carry her off, is it any wonder that the man who came off with a sound
skull should remember? None. So Wullah Mullah was suspicious. He had determined his
daughter should not marry. The old lady was getting too feeble to carry the swag, and as for
begging rum at the convict station —well, she was getting too ancient. Besides, she would drink
half of it on the way home, and often left him without tlio comforts of life. So lie was ready for
the irruption of the western chief.
No man is ready to cope with lovers. Whether in imperial palaces, or on the
unhistoric plains of old Australia, Love outwits all. The rum supply had got intolerable. The King’s
daughter was sixteen, the Queen was verging on two thousand moons—say 100 years —old. In
the last few trips the young lady had returned with heavy jars of the mixture —a revenue far
exceeding that of the palmiest days of the last Commissioner. But she came later and later, and
one evening the king, then sitting contemplative just below Lady Macquarie’s Chair eating a
mussel and cursing the drought, saw the two figures referred to in our sketch. It was enough.
That night King Wullah Mullah swore that he would neither eat nardoo nor drink rum until lie
had slain the would-be betrayer of his daughter. On such a night came our hero.
We said the young lady attended the mission school. She could write. In their stolen
interviews she taught her lover to write, and oft whilst telling thoir dusky loves would the Prince
of Parramatta pause in the spelling lessons she gave, and press upon her acceptance some choice
kangaroo-rat or flying-squirrel not to be met with this side of Penrith. And when distance separated
them she would write a tender word or two on a leaf of her Catechism, and wait about Redfcrn
till the boomerang came. Then, pasting on the unspeakable tenderness, would the little soul step
back a yard or two and , and we have seen the lover receive the reply and read it, as only
love’s missives can be read -in solitude —or open court.
The same two figures.
The same dim outline.
A spear raised. A cry:
“ Spare him, O King, he
holds the revenue.” The
spear droops. “He
brought it, O King ; it’s
aquartthis time. On my
knees I pray.” And Wul-
lah Mullah laid down his
spear, and took the reve-
nue, and said : “My
blessing, children; to-
morrow is your wedding
day.” And the revenue
went up to his mouth.
The moon shone out. The
lovers embraced. The
king, overcome with emo-
tion, throwback his crown
—kluck kluck!
But life is not made
up of kluck klucks. A stranger chief from Bega had watched the game. There was a blow and the
liver fell. There was another, and the maid was borne on sturdy shoulders into the darkness of night
—gone for ever. Then did the King of Wullah Mullah raise up the stunned lover, and say, “ I never
go back on my word. She’s gone. Here’s the old gin. She’s no good to me. Take her.” Ho murmured,
“ I will,” and spreading his feet to the fire said { “ Thy people shall be my people and thy gin my gin.”
Beware!
[For The Bulletin.]
(After Longfellow and the German) *
Know a barmaid fresh and fair
And stout,
With aureoline she fakes her hair
No doubt,
Look out,
She is mashing thee.
She has two orbs so big and bright
And blue,
She pencils up the lids at night —
Too true !
Note you
How dark those eyelids be.
Her bodice is cut rather low
And square,
Her bismuthed breast looks white as snow—
Take care !
A snare
For catching mugs like thee.
She rests her elbow on the bar
To sigli;
Then brings a light for your cigar ;
Fight shy,
Be spry—-
She’s tricky, don’t you see.
She .yvcars of rosos rod a hunch
i3q sweet ;
Sho offers you a bud at lunch—
Retreat,
Retreat—
She offers buds to we.
No need to give the damsel’s name;
We wot
Of others at the same old game—
A lot
As hot,
Quite as warm as she.
* (After the whole lot of ’em, in fact.)
THIS
WICKED
WORLD
D. R. Long, the well-known chemist of Bourke-
street, Melbourne, is dead. He was 83 years of age, and
leaves 70 descendants. Let us hope they’re not all chemists...
A gallant Queensland policeman, who went to arrest a blind
man, covered that helpless individual with a revolver, yell-
ing—“Shtand, or I will shute ye three times in the Queen’s
name.” The blind man “ shtood.” To the sleepless. You
can always get a nap by reading Knapp’s letters in the Syd-
ney daily press 703 bootmakers are out of work in Free-
trade Sydney... .2000 men at Kimberley ; only 15 on payable
gold Governor Loch and Mr. John Blyth were the only
Victorian subscribers to the two-guinea grovel to “Wales."
“ Conway Williams” and “George Herbert Beauchamp
Delaware” are the names of the now-imprisoned leaders of
the riotous Melbourne unemployed Rev. Austin, of
Whitby, York, has been offered the Anglican See of Mel-
bourne. Meanwhile, Melbourne gets on nicely without any
bishop at all The last big alligator of any impo; tance,
killed at Port Douglas (Q.), contained 20 bushels of eggs,
two pine logs, a log-chain, the stem of a boat, a black boy,
a small iron chest, and a quantity of splinters. It also
showed the marks of bullets, and traces were found of 723
lies which had been told regarding this unhappy animal
A charge of dynamite was recently placed beneath the fire-
place of an aboriginal in Cairns (Q.). Result: One gin
blown to smithereens A Chinkie lately recommended
himself to a lady as a cook by the proud announcement,
Chinaman, me can say ‘Tinkle, tinkle, ’ittle
star. I his recalls the Tamil Coolie, who, when asked his
religion, replied, “ Me all the same as master, eat beef and
say G d d—-n The Sydney D. T. publishes this adver-
tisement: To Mariners.—A child's caul for sale.” A
caul is a sure preventive of shipwrecks, and no coasting
steamer especially when Jonah Perkins, from Queens-
land is on board—should be without one The boss
of an Adelaide groggery advertises for a bar-keeper
who must be recommended by his pastor.” It will soon be
impossible over there for a man to get a billet as chucker-out
man opium den without an apostle to back him.... Ipswich
(Q.) has decided against reducing its pubs, to 18 in number
ihey couldn t face the summer on short allowance The
gambling question troubles Ballaratters. A burnt child
dreads the fire During 1884, 157 lads under the age of 21,
were brought before the Brisbane city bench for vagrancy,
and it was shown that they had been living upon the proceeds
of prostitution A returned Kimberley digger says • —“ On
our return we witnessed many a pitiful sight. There were
upwards of 60 horses lying dead at different stages. There
were also_four men dead on the track.’’... .It is said that
Gundagai, N.S.W., though subject to floods in its low parts,
does not possess a boat. During past floods several persons
were drowned while some of the inhabitants were going to
a distant town in search of a boat to rescue them... .James
Smith, of Sydney, who married Mary Ann Smith in ’79 and
deserted her after a month, swears he isn’t Smith at all. He
has been committed for perjury, as wife and sister-in-law are
strong on the point and are resolved to have their Smith or
perish An Australian greenhorn (from Bourke, N.S.W.)
was eased of £7OO by two Sydney sharpers last week, but he
artfully disguised his love, and, locking the door, asked if his
friends were ready to die. They did not feel like dying, and
handed back the coin, and that same afternoon the innocent
countryman dropped on them like an alligator from il.e
clouds and gave them into custody At Big Bay, West
Coast of New Zealand, three prospectors, working with a
common sluice-box, got in 12 days 6oz. of gold and oOlbs. of
nickel, and subsequent explorations led them to vote the
district one of the richest in the Australasian colonic?.
There are no sunstrokes or fever in this new region. neither
does the nigger walk the earth by night nor the alliga or by
day.
GLOOM
The rose that was bom to blush unseen—Negroes.
After all, an old maid is not like a lemon. Young men
often squeeze lemons.
“Dead men tell no tales.” This does not hold good in the
case of the lamented Hugh Conway.
Edison is inventing a method whereby a baby's midnight
shrieks will be carried off on a wire to frighten away the cats
on the roof.
Sydney Evening News says that the. letters of its
“ Peeress ’’are bright and breezy. Yes, they are breezy, but
we don’t like our breezes filtered through a drain.
Father : “I believe you desire to make my daughter happy.
Do you really mean it?” Suitor: “ Unquestionably.” Father:
“ Well, don't marry her, then.”
The Queen’s recent visit to Liverpool cost £15,000. It costs
us a good deal to go away from home for two or three days,
but even including the fine it never reached £15,000. The
Queen must have painted things blood-red.
A thin old man was picking up a number of pieces of whale-
bone in the street when a policeman asked: him where he
thought they came from. “ Dunno,” said the ancient mariner.
“ ’Spect some unfortunate female was wrecked hereabouts.”
“I can furnish a stained-wood coffin, madam,” said the
undertaker to the widow, “ that cannot be distinguished
from the genuine mahogany and will come much cheaper.”
“ The stained wood will do,” re. lied the grief-stricken woman
and then she went into a leading draper’s. “ What kind of
crape do you wish, madam?” inquired the draper, gently.
‘ T-the very bes 1 ' 1 ” said the widow, with difficulty repressing a
sob.


Society
The hundredth anniversary of N.S.W. is
to be a vast affair. For 15 days the fountains of
the great deep are to be broken up and it is to
rain beer and centenary till every white-headed
Australian vagrant is scattered loosely in the
gutter, with a peaceful smile on his features anc
the remains of a fortnight-old shave spread thinl
over his centennial jaw. That old Greek fossi,
the Sydney University, is to wake up on the occa
sion and do somo new Greek lunacy, as yet un
specified ; the Agricultural Society of N.S.W. i
to hold a special show of bulgy hogs ; Jubile
Young, K.C.M.G., is to perspire round and “mak
all tho necessary arrangements ” ; thore are to bo
special services and snufflings if the clergy keep
strictly sober, besides a show of school children, j
centennial gorge—for nothing can be dono witho’u
a gorge—an illumination, a sham fight, a public
library, a railway, a drain and a lot of sewage, an
aquatic festival at which somebody will be
drowned, and, in short, everything but a volcano
Australia is to be turned upside down and a beer
pot placed on top of the intoxicated ruins, and
then, when all is over, a weary spectre with a
head on it—the wreck of the great Sir Patrick
Jennings—will retire to hunt out some new in-
spiration. Centenary on top of Jubileo means
sudden and dyspeptic death.
* * *
Sir Patrick has determined to run the cen-
tenary on purely “ upper-crust” lines. The vulgar
public may catch a glimpse of the show if they
can, but that is all they are to have of It unless
they go to the opening of the Bondi sewer. The
whole programme is drawn out strictly on
“society” lines, and as a proof of our commercial
progress we are to have a British fleet showing us
how they could capture Pinch-gut from tho gallant
sixteen the Sydney Lanceahs. The most serious
item in the bill of fare is the 200 learnod men and
old ladies—cultured maiden females with blue
noses and corkscrew curls—from the British Asso-
ciation.
* * *
A divorce-epidemic rages in Sydney, and
those whom God hath joined Judge Windeyer is
fast putting asunder. Some of the evidence given
goes far towards explaining another epidemic—of
murder and suicide—which is also raging in Syd-
ney. Edmund Splatt, for example, is charged by his
wife with having—among numberless other acts
of brutality—vented his rage on the baby by
squeezing out its tongue, stoking salt into its
mouth to make it sick, and biting its legs.
Adultery and systematic brutality to his wife
are also among the accusations levelled against
him, to which he
pleads, in defence,
sunstroke and
mother - in - law.
Theodore Vinoy,
on the other
hand, is a light-
comedy indivi-
dual. Three years
ago, when only
17, he married
Jane Sham, a
widow 10 years
his senior, and
after some glori-
ous drunks on
her part, the pair
agreed to separ-
ate, Theodore
giving the late
Sham permission
to marry again.
Daniel Simmons
has got clear of
his marriage vows
on the grounds
that he wedded
a beery siren be-
fore he was old
enough to be re-
sponsible for his
actions, and that
his wife spends
too much time in
gaol; while Annie
Taylor,after serv-
THE MAN WE ENVY:
HE HAD ALL THE FUN LAST WEEK.
ing for several years as a target for cup
and saucers, has also been “put asunder” b
the judge. Alexander Richardsonhasgrowntiredo
draggiag his wife out of a tempie of Venus l.e.
by his mother-in-law, and paying her tram-fai
home as a wind-up to the spree, and his Hono
says he need not bother about her any more
George Nix complains that his better-half dran
all the tables and chairs and is now engagec
liquoring up on other solids belonging to some
body else. Sara Lewis nee Rothschild, a lady o
Lebanon, kicked her husband out, and she showec
such satisfactory cause that Judge Windeyer con
fiscated his latchkey and ordered him to stay ou
for the rest of his unnatural existence. Lastly
William Farrell, who got his wife through a six
penny advertisement —“in an evening paper,” as
the D.T. maliciously remarks—wants to get the
sixpence back. The lady referred him to the
neighbours, who gave her a good character, but
brilliant drunk which she instituted all through
the first week of her married life shattered the
sacrament, and she wound up by staying out al
night, and throwing a letter over the fence in
which she demanded her share of the furniture
Farrell then negotiated for the return of the
wedding-ring but only got the pawnticket; and
his wife, after living for some months with a gay
deceiver who knocked her teeth out, and then
went to gaol for half-a-year, is now turned loose by
Judge Windeyer’s decree on the cold, cold world.
Judging from some of these revelations, a little
more cheap divorce would do no harm in N.S.W.
* * *
Rabbit-proof fencing !_ That is nothing to
the intruder-proof phalanx which surrounds Lady
Carington at a reception. There seems a desire
to establish a monopoly of the favour of her
amiable ladyship. But it is no use, for, watching
her opportuuity, she eludes the vigilance of her
defence force, and bestows on those “insolent”
(so called by the phalanx) “ outsiders” her usual
kindly greeting and pleasant smile.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Wrench, of Cara-
don, Woollahra, have issued invitations for the
marriage of Misa Laura Throckmorton and
Captain Terry, A.D.C., which is to take place on
Tuesday afternoon, 7th, at 2.30, at All Saints’
Church, Woollahra.
* * *
On Friday, 27th inst., the Sydney Metro-
politan Liedertafel concert came off at the Protes-
tant Hall. Among the attractions, H.E. and
Lady Carington were conspicuous. A splendid
programme was presented. The gem of the even-
ing was the rendering of a part-song, by Abt,
descriptive of “ Evening,” by Mr. Warwick
Gainor, who created a profound sensation in the
part allotted to him. Hr. Braza’s “Angel’s
Serenade,” sung by Mrs. ltiley, was a great
success.
** ~ *
On 26th ult., Lady Carington had her
usual enjoyablo reception. Tennis is at these
affairs the one means of killing time, Badminton
not having been taken up by “ society; ” the
chief reason probably boing that H.E. does not
play Badminton. There was on this occasion a
fino display of gush over some lily-of-the-valloy
sprays that a lady had givon Lady Carington.
* * *
Even at Gosford the people are trying to
kill off the flowers to build a parsonage on the
proceeds of a show. They belong to that class
who would pluck the feathers out of the arch-
angel’s wings to stuff a curate’s pillow with.
An entertainment worth remembering was
given at Darlinghurst, last Thursday evening,
26th inst., by that gifted band of bachelors of
which the cynical and popular Mr. Edmund
Smith appears to be the acknowledged chief.
The amusements principally consisted of music of
various kinds, and to this were added two recita-
tions—ono by tho handsome Mrs. Gullett (“ Hum-
ming Bee ”), and tho other by Mr. Redwood, the
popular actor. The guests were delighted.
* * *
Mr. Nimmo, Victorian Minister of Works,
has a weakness for talking about his domestic
affairs in public. The other day he told the “un-
employed ” that he would be proud and happy to
break stones if his “little wife wanted bread.”
At a temperance corroboree last week Nimmo
again introduced Mrs. N’s. name into tho business.
He said “ he could refer them to his wife for testi-
mony that, total abstainer as ho was, he was
sound in breath and limb, and could love as well
as any man.” Now, the manner in which a man
loves his wife is a strictly domestic affair, in our
opinion. But these connubial items are always
greedily swallowed at temperance and Sunday-
school meetings.
* * *
On Wednesday evening, 25th. ult., the
much-discussed Mayor Young’s juvenile ball came
off in Sydney Town Hall, and was a most brilliant
success. The Mayor and Mayoress had spared no
trouble or expense in providing for the wants and
comforts of their 700 small and large guests, who
ranged from self-possessed tiny dots of five or six
to beautiful maidens of 17, and painfully self-con
scious young gentlemen of a similar age. Miss
.and Mr. Young received their invitis at the
southern entrance, and to onlookers this was the
most interesting event of the evening. No more
charming picture
can be imagined
than that pre-
sented on the oc-
casion, and the
kind-hearted
hostess certainly
deserved the
warm congratula-
tions bestowed
upon her. The
supper was pro-
fuse and elegant,
and was dealt
with in a sum-
mary manner by
the 700 youth-
ful appetites.
Amongst the
numbers of well-
chosen characters
and costumes
were noticeable
a very handsome
“ Masaniello,”
and a perfect
“ Charles Sur-
face.” Two fair-
ies, each as ‘ ‘ lo-
lanthe,” were
triumphs of suc-
cess. Ayounglady
was unique as a
“Knight.” Her
stockings, helmet,
and cuirass were
armour-coloured, and beneath the cuirass was a
short white skirt. Miss Proctor, in stars and stripes
and a becoming hat, made a handsome “ America. ”
Miss Bensusan, as "La Zingari,” was also ad-
mired. Miss Riley, as “Mascotte,” was very
pretty in satin and lace, with large hat. The
“ Greek Elder” was a capital get-up. Miss Richard-
son, as "Patience,” wore blue satin, kilted skirt,
top of print, straw hat ornate with sunflowers.
Miss Friend, as “ Queen of the Butterflies,” wore
a very pretty dress, the skirt composed of soft
lace, with kilting of white satin and numbers of
different-coloured butterflies painted all over the
flounces. Miss Maude Galbraith, as “Night,”
looked elegant in black tulle, spangled with stars
and half-moons. Master Arthur Rouse was a good
and true sailor. Miss Maude Tulford, as “ Queen
Anne,” was irreproachable. Master Graham, as a
stockman, was capital in white trousers, red shirt
felt hat, and stockwhip. The “ Gold Digger” was
most ably represented, as also were "Cceur de
Lion,” "Lord Nelson,” “Three Little Maids from
School,” “Lizzie Stofel,” “A Clown,” “Cymbe-
line,” “Father Christmas,” “Captive,” “Follow
the Drum,” &c.
* * *
Elaborate dinner parties have been very
numerous of late in Sydney. His Excellency and
Lady Carington had a number of people to dine
on Monday evening, the 23rd. On the same even-
ing, Mrs. Edward Milne, of Darling Point, enter-
tained a party at dinner ; on Friday evening, the
27th, Mrs. Wrench, of Caradon, Woollahra, had a
dinner party ; and on Wednesday, the 25th, Rear-
Admiral Tryon also had a dinner party.
* * *
Tasmanian Society is now engaged in try-
ing to solve th'is problem Who was the lady
introduced to it as the parson’s sister ?
* * *
Dr. and Mrs. Harman Tarrant gave a very
enjoyable juvenile party on Friday last.
* * *
A snigger went round among the liquor
dealers in Hobart on receiving circulars from a
leading merchant stating that a very choice
*
sample of Jamaica rum had been received, and
orders for same were requested, the said merchant
bei ouo a Very prominen t member of the Y.M.C.A.,
Socicty worker, and a staunch Blue
Kibbomte.
* * *
The Australian Club ball, which is ex-
17th ed t 0 ,X! a most brilliant affair, is fixed for the
* * *
A select committee of Melbourne spinsters
has sat upon the question and decided that
Premier Gillies ought to get married.
* * *
Populaire, a colonially-manufactured
operetta, whoso authors in naming it seem to
m C /-l eyy t,oldly anticipated the public verdict,
will (it is said) bo given at Government House,
bydney, at the end of November. The piece,
although written by two Scotch gentlemen,
Messrs. Moser and Maclean, is alleged to be
humorous.
* * *
Dr. Ilenwick intends to establish Savings
Banks in connection with the Public Schools of
JN.b.W. And with grim humour, he further adds
that these banks will be “ worked” by the teach-
ing staff under the Education Board. The result is
that the Comptroller-General of Gaols is about to
apply for a grant of 100 square miles of land for
prison sites, and to petition that the walls of Dar-
lmghurst be made of indiarubber.
THE WHISPERING
CALLERY
th^CoptJc maS Garrett| M -h.A., has returned to Australia by
(N V SW )“ast week baU given by the bachelors of Taree
wdh o^ B othe r r S fello e w einSyOUr gH all the eveni *g
fo^adance S on8 0 t f htoB d L eaf ’ haS iSSUed invitations
fafuh“en?ofa°ga t rte e r. lady gUertß nt hOT Wedding brCak -
BoTci o caulff S to^ert y rriJl I ? OUrne to Wh ° m Miss Nina
dance ™ “ enj '° yable
hafr r ofa^ )B f b r e^l^^Vlove^neslV' PhlmP ' a " d haS Titian
r;Z 1 i e f Profe3S °- S Sydney University have issued invita-
tions for a musical evening, on Friday, the 3rd of September
nf^Jn gagenlent A ann £ unce<l between Miss Lizzie Weigall,
Chasff b ° Ulne ’ and KeV ' T ' Chase ’ eldest son of Rev. Canon
The lady editor of the Ca-coar (N.S.W.) paper deprecates
morai rantmg ° f an lotel llcense to a single man, “however
a C m S h» ln? ’ ° f ?°u th Sh .°, re - has issued invitations for
*** r6SldenCe ’ ° U Wednesday
. bord Castlerosse, late A.D.C. to the Victorian Governor
is to marry Hon. Elizabeth Baring, sister of the Mr. Baring
now staying at Government Home, Sydney.
The saddest man in Queensland just now is he who mar-
ried an adult widow, and received a bill from Govern-
ment for £2OO arrears of school fees for the family.
9QH, h< A Sydn f y m, uU V II Imps mutually improved on Sunday,
29th August. The Imps seem to have gained fresh strength
in their recent passage through the furnace of affliction.
“WEDDED.”
A NEW VERSION.
HE: "MARRIED SIX MONTHS, AND BITING THOSE NAILS
AGAIN!
The third annual cricket club picnic, given by the em
ployees of Messrs. Goodlet and Smith, Sydney, came off a
Chowder Bay, on 28th ult. There were upwards of 350 pel
sons present.
The departing American Consul Griffin meets his fate on
September 6, at 7.15 p.in. Kntrance fee, £1 10s. Place o
execution, Sydney Town Hall. Which being interpreted
means a farewell dinner.
On Thursday, 26th August, Mr. and Madame Kellerman
entertained a number of friends at Leighwood, Darlinghurst
Sydney Music, dancing, and amateur theatricals were en
joyed during the evening.
A very enjoyable and successful children's fancy dress bal
was given at the Town Hall, Parramatta, on the 20th inst
Nearly every character was represented, and many visitors
from Sydney were present.
On the 18th inst. Miss Fanny Irby and Mr. Walter Traill
W r er .®. married at the residence of the bride's sister, Fast
Maitland. All the fashion of the town and district turned
out m honour of the occasion.
Second annual social of the Rodfern CambridgeOricket Club
eventuated m the local Town Hall, on 19th August. It was
so good that guests expanded the joy to an unusual extent,
the affair not closing till 4 a.m.
■ JOURNAL says "the latest high-life innovation
in fashionable marriages in Paris is the display of the bride's
outfit on dummy figures ranging on a platform.” Very often
a fellow might as well marry the dummy as the bride.
The Masonic Ball (undei the patronage of Lord Caringtonl.
he d in Sydney Town Hall on 26th ult., and attended by about
lbO. guests, was a perfect success. Many of the costumes
were well-chosen, and cardinal was the prevailing colour.
A well-attended dramatic and musical entertainment was
given at Town Hall North Shore, on Friday, the 27th inHt.
iy the Bijou Social Club. Mr. Ridley, as a comic singer, and
Mr Jeff. Davies, as reciter, carried off the honours of the
Miss Agnes Murray, third daughter of Mr Andrew Murray,
of I oorak, Melbourne, is to ; tarry Mr. J. Cunningham, eldest
son of Dr. Cunningham ; and Miss Elizabeth Murray, second
daughter of Mr. Andrew Murray, is to marry her cousin, Mr
Culvert.
The Hon. Mr Barington is at present a guest at Govern-
ment House, Sydney. When we read this, we shuddered
until we perceived, thut the gentlemiin had only one 1 ‘ r' in
to S l7BB ne ’ and renlembered that we were nearer to 1888 than
On Wednesday, 25th inst., the Sydney Sacred Heart
Literary and Debating Society gave their annual dinner at
vi'- ? Hall, Pitt-street. About 35 members attended,
tobacco Uinlan ln fche chair< L °y' dl toasts, speeches, and
A most successful plain and fancy dress ball was given at
/V m , lda ? nn Wednesday, the 25th inst., to procure funds for
toe local Volunteer Band. None of the dresses worn at
gone°southdo AlbUry? 8 ° bSmed - 80 the lot must ha ™
The letter signed “ Madge,” in London Truth, is one of
special excellence. It is by Mrs. Humphrey, a young, skilful
and indefatigable writer. She also does the fashion-article
for the Daily News, contributes to several other papers
and edits a ladies journal. y * ’
“Classical Sunday evening concerts” are to be given
shortly by H. J. Samuell and Knight Aston at Sydney
Gaiety Theatre on Sunday evenings. These concerts should
become a valuable aid to devotion," but they will draw in
coin the clergy should get. r w in
The ball at Inverell (N.S.W.), in aid of the Ly-ee-Moon
iuno. aid not aid anybody much, accounts showing a £lO
shortage. The failure of the affair is locally ascribed to two
causes—the fact of the volunteers fixing their chivoo for a
date just beyond that announced for the relief-ball, and the
unavoidable absence of Lord Carington.
A young lady residing in Nelson (N.Z.) resigned her position
as school teacher, and gave, as herreeason, that she “ resigned
owing to circumstances over which she had no lt
turned out that she had been married some months pre-
vmusiy. The circumstances have now resolved themselves
Queeifs°bounty. y bei ” S qualifled as a recipient of the
On a recent occasion, at a dejeuner given in connection
with some function at the Infant Orphan Asylum at Wan-
stead, cigarettes were lighted by Prince Albert Victor and
his companion, Ford Brooke, before the ladies had left the
table, and while one of the oldest and most influential
patrons was speaking the young gentleman talked so loudly
that Lord Brooke had to give him a hint to be quiet. y
At the recent fancy dress ball in Brisbane the greatest
success was a young gentleman who got up as "Jo”—rags
broom and all .complete He passed the hat round, an<i
collected a goodAumber of coppers, but when he approached •
a stout lady wlio was feeding lovely ”in the refreshment-
room, and groaned out Ise wery hungry !” that charitable
feinaie responded, Go away, you nasty little boy,” and
building 0 k " OW h ° W SUCh a disgraceful ob j ect got into the
A young Irish lady who lately attended an English
ball caused great sensation among the half-dressed old
dowagers present, by the style of her dress, made so as to
show a pair of bewitching ankles. The fashionable ladies
blushed all over at sight of her " twinklers "-quotation from
Sir John Suckling—and one of them finally remonstrated
with the wondering Kathleen about exposing her ankles
Show my ancles, Madam ? she replied, indignantly “Shure
and 1 do, and so would you madam, if your dress were pulled
up around your neck as it should be to look dacent.”
A little excitement prevails
among the Hebrew ladies of
Melbourne over the re-engage-
ment of a well-known Hebrew
medico and a young lady who a
short time back broke off her
engagement with a Sydney
gentleman of the same faith the
night before the wedding was to
have taken place.
A lady writes Hear Bulle-
tin—Here is a riddle from
Saturday’s Evening News ■—
“ Why is Sir Patrick Jennings
like a potato? Because he is
always in a stew." As Alfred
says that the potato is 1 ' a]wayi
m the stew," one concludes that
liis chef has a habit of mixing
spuds” with the stewed
rhubarb.
At the Queen's “ colonial"
reception, at Windsor, it was
observed that a lot of our
distinguished ones skedaddled
after partaking of refreshments
They didn’t wait to kiss Her
Majesty’s fist. As a bibulous
C.M G. aptly put it—“ When
a fellow sees six hands, the
odds are five to one against a
fellow kissing the right one."
G. A Sala recently advertised
f, or , a lady secretary, age not
under JO, and a governess pre-
ferred. She was to be able to
write legibly, and to possess a
fair knowledge of French.
George says he “had 435 an-
swers, and the terms demanded
varied from 6s. a week to 255.”
bix shillings a week for a sweet
lady amanuensis! Boy—slip
out and buy us seven dozen.
The British War authorities
object to give medals to the
Australian newspaper corre-
spondents who accompanied one
nigger-slaughtering brigands to
tfieSoudan. Someday Australia
will be democratic enough to be
ashamed of the whole transac
tion, and to look back on this
doughty ’ deed as a High
lander looks back on the cattle-
stealing exploits of his great
great great-grandfather.
On 24th inst. the members
of the German Club, Sydney,
entertained a large number of
their friends at a concert, under
the management of the German
Leidertafel. The chief singers
were Messrs. W. Morgan and
Bushelle. HerrH. Kohler played
m splendid style. Among the
clnef musicians were Herren
Kretschman Alpress (Hair Al-
iwess), Patek, Sclimellitzcheck,
Maclean, Rees. The entertain-
ment closed with the Spinning
Song from the “ Flying Dutch-
man, and a rhapsodie by Liszt.
The officers of H.M.S. Dia-
mond suffered frightful priva-
tions on their recent protracted
voyage between N.Z. and
Sydney— they were reduced to
eating the same class of food
as the ordinary seamen. When
the officers heroically tackled
salt-dunk and pork, and
steadily ate their way through
barrel after barrel, the sailors
became alarmed at the prospect
ahead of dmmg off oakum and
bilge-water. During her cruise
the Diamond annexed the
Kerinadic Islands and presented
the overjoyed natives with the
“^aJhatchettokillmissioaaries


DR. ROSS, THE MEMBER FOR MOLONG.
x> RADuEY, NEWTON, LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
match. _
[. -J
mr
S IDEBOARDS of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
fs
/•»> r PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
m
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell - street.
ml
Drawing room carl
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehouskmkn ,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
df
WALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier—a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
sd
Revolving show
stands,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fs
Bedsteads, all sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
B
EDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
df
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Priee, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, frona 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from SQg.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Ho*sa3. from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from cfOe.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T
HEA T R E
ROYAL.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee Mr. Sam. Lazar.
Treasurer ... ... ... Mr. G. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager It. H. Vincent.
Assistant Stage Manager ... W. Seagrave.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY,
arid for
EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY, POSITIVELY,
George Darrells’s new Drama of Irish life,
THE SOGGARTH
THE SOGGARTH.
Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper Circle, Is.
Box Plan open at Theatre.
MONTY BROWNE,
General Business Manager.
IT
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees : Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Directors : Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
GREAT DIVORCE CASE.
LAST WEEK but ONE of Mr. Harry St. Maur
and
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROY AT. COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, SEPTEMBER 1,
THE GREAT DIVORCE CASE,
Acted by Mr. Harry St. Maur and the
Royal Comedy Company.
Saturday, September i. —Grand Revival for Six
Nights only of PINK DOMINOES.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Day Tickets at Jack
Thompson’s, King-street.
Assistant Stage Manager—Mr. Patterson.
Business Manager for W. G. &M. —Mr. W. Hughes.
A
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
General Business Manager ... Mr. A. L. Cunard.
752 NIGHTS 752
And still the leading success of the city.
IiISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
in conjunction with the
RAYNOR BROTHERS.
in their laughable Dualogue, MIRTH and MUSIC.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereagh- Street.
L esse e , Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
This and every Evening until further notice,
SINS OF THE CITY.
Grand Fashionable Night, FRIDAY Next,
By special request,
HAMLET.
Admission : Dress circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ; Pit, Is.
COMPLIMENTARY BALL
to THE RIGHT WORSHIPFUL the
MAYOR of SYDNEY, JOHN YOUNG, Esq., J.P.,
and the LADY MAYORESS,
To be held in the EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park.
On MONDAY, 20th SEPTEMBER.
GENTLEMEN’S TICKETS ... ... 30s.
LADIES’ TICKETS 20s.
Gentlemen wishing to have their names placed
on the Committee will please notify to the Honor-
ary Secretaries.
CHARLES COWPER, Chairman.
Dr. TUCKER \ Hon.
C. C. SKARRATT J Treas.
J. H. DAVIES \ Hon.
H. FRANKS J Sacs.
Tickets are now ready, and can be obtained from the fol-
lowing Members of the Executive Committee: J. Hunt, G.
W. Thornton, J. Norton Russell. J. F. Coats, B. N. Jones,
J. Kidman, S. J. Davidson, M. Aaron, J. R. Carey, W. H.
Pritchard, and from the Hon. Secretaries.
RM . RILEY
• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with cautio*
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to b car*.
QAIETY THEATRE-
-Every Sunday Night.
A GRAND CONCERT,
Under the Direction of KNIGHT ASTON.
Admission, 2s. and Is. H. J. Samuell, Manager.
AIETY THEATRE.
Castlereagh-street.
Lessee ... ... John Solomon Esq.
Sub-Lessee ... John F. Sheridan, Esq.
Under arrangement with John F. Sheridan, Esq.
FARLEY’S OPERA COMPANY.
On SATURDAY, September 4th, Von Suppe’s
charming Opera in 3 acts,
“ FATINITZA,”
“ FATINITZA,”
“ FATINITZA.’
Miss Adeline Brandon as Fatinitza.
Miss Florence Seymour as Princess Lydia.
Mr. FARLEY as COUNT KAUCHUKOFF.
Mr. W. Walshe as the War Correspondent.
Mr. A. Farley as Stiepan.
Mr. C. Robson as The Pasha.
The entire opera staged and produced under the
immediate supervision of Mr. Farley.
POWERFUL AND EFFICIENT ORCHESTRA.
Selected Chorus.
Conductor '.. Mons. Leon. Caron.
Leader ... Mons. De Willimoff.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager Frank Stuart.
LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENTS
IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENTS
OF
PROFESSOR R. CROFT,
the Premier Ventriloquist,
and of
MR. EDWARD VAUGHAN,
the noted Tenor Songster.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 2s. ; Stalls,
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
Lynch family bellringers.
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
In consequence of the serious illness of one of
the principal members of the Family, the re-
appearance of the Company is unavoidably
postponed for a few days.
JAMES SMITH \ . .
H. E. BARNES / A S ents -
Thought reading.
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUTTERED THOUGHTS.
Western tour. —Return Visit.
Cudal, Thurs. and Frid., 2nd and 3rd September.
Orange, Wellington, &c., to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY
and HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
First Australian Tour. Great Success Every-
where.
Nowra —Friday, Saturday, Monday.
Cambewarra —Tuesday and Wednesday.
Milton —Thursday and Friday.
Moruya, Bodalla, Bega, to follow.
E. FAUST, Sen., Manager.
R. H. BERNARD, Agent.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
“Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“A RING OF IRON.”
THEATRE ROYAL,
ReeKHAMPTON.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
.. Proprietor,
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely-
furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms—Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker.
.1. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Kedfern.
LINEN GLOSS.
T. T. FODEN & CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description of
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
REAL PROPERTY ACT.
IT is hereby notified that surveyors who are
specially licensed to survey under the pro-
visions of the Real Property Act, and are desirous
of having such license renewed, must lodge their
application for renewal with the Surveyor-General,
Sydney, on or before the 30th September proximo.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 25th August, 1886.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
Anything you require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &0.,
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER N. S. W.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonic
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
rpHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLDJSVERYWHERE.


Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, S/6, 1/6, 9/6. 12/6 11/6, *l/. *5/. 60/-
<5/, M» £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
_, Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
□
AOCORDEONS
09 W -/»» ‘-/»8 *-/S* IS
9/&I721 »/Sl 9/01 ft 11*
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
lO -» 25 - 3«/- to ©2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
COMETS “*- - ‘«S ,#s "
Specialities : The new “ Levy” model,
with water key ... ... £5 5 0
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 910 0
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10 0
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker ...50/-
V-
THE SYMPHONETTE
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/—.
Extra tunes,' 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
SBT Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !!
■200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per oopy.
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
*tO any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager,’
•saoiHJ
anaaaaNtAV
MS
&
m
&
a
«-
£/&
2 L
a
5
YOU
CAN’T
*
Parkes says an open port is best,
Dibbs cries for ad valorem,
While Heydon says with 5 per cent.
Protection is before ’em.
Some say their prices must be raised,
But one firm answers no,
The firm, whose tweed mankind has praised,
Great Summerfield and Co.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and best stimulant, tonic,
diuretic, at present before the world.
HOW TO CURE SALT RHEUM.
Had salt rheum in most aggravated form for eight years, No
kind of treatment, medicine, or doctors did me any permanent
good. My friends in Malden know how I suffered. When I
began to use the Cuticura Remedies my limbs were so
raw and tender that I could not bear my weight on ‘ them
without the skin cracking and bleeding, and was obliged to
go about on crutches. Used the Cuticura Remedies, the
new blood puiifier, internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great skin cures and beautifiers, externally, five
months, and was completely and permanently cured.—MßS.
S. A. Brown, Malden, Mass. Reference: and citizen of
Malden, Mass.
Invigorate the system with Wolfb’s Schnapps if you
would avoid bilious attacks.
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps the greatest stimulant and tonic in
the world. Beware of imitations.
Consult Dr. Boyd, Pomeroy Chambers, 39 Castlereagh
street (upstairs), Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Regis-
tered Physician of New South Wales. Office hours: 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Paralysis, deformities, nervous, and female
diseases a speciality. Box 120 G.P.O.*
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe's Schnapps is now the most populai drink in the
world. Avoid other so-called Schnapps.
Australian hearts arc true as steel,
To every tale of keen distress ;
They feel the pangs that others feel,
And help with love and readiness.
So when some noble ship is lost,
Or in the mine men’s doom is sealed,
We give our gold nor count the cost,
And buy black suits from Summerfield. *
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
Wolfe s Schnapps is a superlative tonic and anti-dyspeptic
cordial with a pure spiritiuous basis.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, See.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, See., Sec.
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHIG ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures
We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all classes of Furniture, Crockery,
Glassware, E.P. Ware, Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &c.
Also,
OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OF BEDSTEADS,
as
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES.
£2 15s. BRASS MOUNTED HA LF-TESTER BEDSTEADS, FULL SIZE, WITH EXTEND
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING! ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse.
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGIIT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At tlie Exceedingly low l’rice of ,CS 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS, ,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Take all in all.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines ,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the — best
— Qualities of all the best medicines in the
world, and you will find that —Hop Bitters have
the best curatives qualities and powers of all—
concentrated in them,
—And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or— combined. Fail ! ! ! !
, —A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Hardened liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering
“I was dragged down with debt, poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, until one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced rising Hop Bitters, and in
one month we were all well, and none of us have seen a sick
day since, and-I want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your families well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor’s visit will cost. I know it.”
—A Workingman,
Prosecute the Swindlers ! !
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the
bottle f the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money foi any&iing lese indict him
for the fraud and sue himffor damages for the swindle, and
' ( will pay you liberally for the conviction.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
First-class Accommodation for Commercials.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
itST Country Orders receive prompt attention. 1E&
THE MERCANTILE BAHK OE SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000,
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: i Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N* F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.


A RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE.
“The Newcastle (N.S.W) Chinese have just celebrated their great annual religious
festival. During its currency, local residents have had to keep an extra eye on their
henroosts.”
MASON BROTHERS,
m
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHE N W A R E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
I surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
\ fragrance.
Three Gold Mei'als--
PAUIS. 1 *7B; CALC UT YA. 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGREA & CYMBimiTW
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ami being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the giowth and
improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice-1 exotics.
Of nil Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
Hi, Old Bond Street, London.
NT
‘White Rose" on“ Golden
LTre ” A
df
s
dfsd
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
-JOHN DANKS
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
fgs
IjpEßiO
BP
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARE
REJECTED AT ALLCHEMISTS IN A
10&»• 20 02 BOTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCE S T
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 per cent, reduction on the old
prices. Music. —Thirty shillings worth of music at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound.
This grand stock comprises, amongst other items.
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest and most
popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Presentation
Volumes, in prose and verse ;Books, suitable for prizes
for boys and girls ; Nautical Works, Books on Engineer-
ing and Surveying, Dictionaries, &c ; and a choice library
of Religious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Embroideries
Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays, and Tea Trays.
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather, and Calf,
profusely illustrated, all sizes, at wonderfully low prices.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books ; Press
Copying Books in every style and binding, or made to
order.
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in Sydney.
Samples and prices may be obtained on application.
HANDBAGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames, of every
kind and description.
ARTISTS' MATERIALS—SoIid Sketch Blocks, Drawing
Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or postage
stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Hoad Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotnhern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane,
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Only by a pure spiritcan nervousness be benefited. Wolfe’s
Schnapps is the stimulant required.
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Scia-
tica and other analogous affections should try
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne, a medicine that
has, since its introduction in 1844, been tried on a
very large scale both by the Medical Profession and
the Public in every part of the habitable Globe,
with unvaried success. Since its introduction
into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and
is now regarded as the most efficient and valuable
medicine that has ever been introduced into the
Colony. The Profession prescribe it; Missionaries
prefer and use Freeman’s .Chlorodyne, and people
leaving Sydney for the interior invariably take a
sufficient supply to last them a twelvemonth.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark an Elephant.—Obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
There is nothing known better calculated to invigorate the
constitution than Wolfe's Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps strengthens and braces up the system
against disease. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.P.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
dfg
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES.
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Torub Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. Gi.WIXiHVII,
Maroaret-btreet, Wynward-square, Sydney
I
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory ■ • • Waverley.
X3T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a great relief in Rheumatism, in-
finitely superior to brandy or whiskey.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
It is much better not to drink at all if you cannot obtain
the genuine Wolfe's Schnapps.
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
We recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps to our readers as an
unequalled medicine beverage.
Nothing purifies and enriches the blood and destroys all
poisons in the system like American Co.’s Hop Bitters. Read
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
Universal use and popular approval have indisolubly esta-
blished the fame of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct hoth establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
The popularity and enormous sales of Wolfe’s Schnapps
testify its intrinsic merits.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Experience teaches that Wolfe’s Schnapps is more suited
to the Colonies than either brandy or whiskey.
wmm
UMBRELLAS
FfE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
they may be favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—l6o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various sizes, in all
the well-known brands; Curry Powder, in
tins and bottles; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry and Mulligatawney Pastes, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to bo addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER-STREET.
Everybody Tp 1? MT?T T ’ Q
SHOULD USE J I IVI Li Jj Ju 0
EXTRA superfine
TLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 George-street, Sydney.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
POPULAR CONSULTATIONS.
CAULFIELD CUP of 1886.
1500 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 200
Third Horse ... 100
Starters, £lOO ; Non-Starters, £lOO ; to be divided
amongst them.
Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tickets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—" DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers, 135 King-street,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS,
Extract from Sydney Sunday News : —
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of ‘ Democrat’s ’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, but in ‘ Democrat’s ’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of 4 Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion.”
Several other newspapers have borne similar
testimony to the genuineness of “Democrat’s”
consultations.
MAMMOTH CONSULTATION.
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All “Democrat’s” consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
and respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address —“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Cauldfield, 135 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
£lO,OOO. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £1000;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact. One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the svper-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done-
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send'-
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“BAßß,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.


DEADBEAT (sol.): “DEAR ME, WHAT AN AWFUL THING A WRECK MUST BE!”
fit
m
■
W.H. PALING & GO.
_ LIMMITED,
356 GrEOR’GE-ST.,
HAVE THE __
Largest and Best Selected
STOCK OF
PIANOS, ORGANS,
AND
MUSIC.
Best Makers, Lowest Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT STSTEM
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Appliction.
W.H. PALING & CO.
356 George-st., Sydney.
H OLE SALE
PxONFEC
MANUFACTURII
420 George S*
CONFECTIONER HmFiv:
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near Erskine ST»
Ca&M <mv
Covuthy a Smrnftc O*o£*s flmmYATTfff^
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
' GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
NEWEST SHAPES.
722EZ 2 l
'ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
PREPARED'ONLY BV
0 Thomas Ingham.
H OC K H_A M PTON.
RADI
X
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout, selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
KEIGWIN & HARSTON, Sole Agents.
sdf
A GUARANTEEwith
r\ each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 Little Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of tliesolids of milk (digested)
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’3 SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient fo" use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. (
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO. LIMITED LONDON
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a noble exception to the spirits' of
the day. Always ask for Wolfe’s
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
If you cannot get Wolfe’s Schnapps in one house it is
much better for you to go where you can get it.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
stimulant in the world.
No health with inactive liver and urinary organs. Take
only Hop Bitters made by American Co. See
The medical profession certifies that Wolfe’s Schnapps
is the purest stimulant procurable.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most popular tonic and stimulant
in the world. Beware of imitations.
A JOKE ON THE JUDGE.
A Queensland Judge, who is the perfection of dignity on
the Bench, swore in a witness, rather frivolous-looking female.
“What is you name?” “Happy Ann.” “Where do you
reside?” asked the Judge. The witness giggled and replied.
“ What’s the use of me telling you where I live, you wouldn’t
call on me anyhow—would you,’Judge?” “ Oh, yes, I would,
if you could offer me any inducement.” “Oh, thank you,
Judge ; indeed I can. I know your weakness.” As she was
leaving the eourt she tipped the wink and said, “ Will the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer be any inducement?” The
Judge adjourned the court and joined Happy Ann.
Wolfe's Schnapps beneficially affects the constitution
and reforms the morbid habits of the body.
GOOD NEWS.
Ought to be told, and its good news that Dr. Bell’s Bitters
has cured the worst of kidney diseases, and can do it again.
Carariok’s Cod Liver Oil
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
D-gniy recommended by the Medical Profession throughout ihe world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula,' Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, (fee., <fec.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil ar' refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
t i make , sifca9 sweetascr*am;verypalatableandrnostnoaruhing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique p-e-
-paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
■n mr? ai^-, oli Gr any Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Sold ly SHOE tEJLEW. CEOCEES tcJ OBUCS1STS.
FETZE MEDALS.'
in
m
jMfflOS*
BOSTON, 18<50.
VIENNA, 1873.
PHIJ-A., 1870.
BAUTHAWATC
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
I necessity in every
family, it blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to bs
‘'THE STANDARD. 1 *
C. L. HAUTHAWAY&SON3,
& 233 Congress Street, Boston,
MASS.. U.S.A
O 1 ■
gsdfgsdfg
ffl
s 1
' I lf*° / AW
iE P PS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
'cocoa
a* *******
T
HE
REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE, CONVENIENCE
ECONOMY.
£3T THE REMINGTON TYPE WRITER saves labour,
stationery, and time, writing much faster than expert pen-
men, and condensing matter to lessO m one-half the space
occupied by pen writing. BeautifWoopies may be taken in
the usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants, bankers,
solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors, reporters, and all
men of business should use the type-writer and save much
valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
RAW VASELINE.
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches :
assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemens Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
saddlers Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKB.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
25 000 L , UM ? S New and Secondhand
Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMQCK’S
BCX)K ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
m
<b
O
9V
""H
» sll
4*
O’ $r


SETTING UP FOR HIMSELF.
NORTH QUEENSLAND (loq.): “WELL, MOTHER, YOU DON’T LIKE ME TO GO, BUT I LEAVE YOU IN PLENTY, AND A MAN MUST SET UP
HIMSELF SOME TIME OR OTHER. I’VE HEARD YOU HAD A LOT OF TROUBLE IN GETTING AWAY FROM YOUR MOTHER.
AFTER ALL, I’M GOING TO LIVE ONLY NEXT DOOR TO YOU—SO GOOD-BYE, MOTHER, AND DON'T MAKE A ROW.”


/
■
3&
The man blows his whistle, the dog wags his tail,
ihe shutter’s released, the lens cannot fail :
matter what subject, it’s there on the glass—
A maiden, an angel, a dude, or an ass.
“'Mile •
1 I nc l U( iing all requisites for the learner, the student, or
lona b can be hdd at prices to suit requirements, from
AND CO.,
\ GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
°’CONNE L L STREET, SYDNEY,
never travel without it.
[Catalogm s
1 i
EFFECTUALLY
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTI
c FLIES, BEETLES .MOSQUITOES
c KROACHES .<* c . t V' c AND
JJHE same time QUITE
BIRDS
A ' n >MALs &
, \) Vv
19
■J* *V V <
„' # <Z> o'*
£* *d£«P A
' v o v ,O / <5
W* e'yirs
£»><'>* AV
&<s■&'J<2
Mli]
FELTON- G Rl MW A D EWC?
- MELBOURNE I
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
KRUSE’
the
S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
numerous imitations.
I
1
lining
INDESTRUCTIBLE
ARKING INK
1/.
Ber Bottle
i ABSOLUTELY INDELIBLE.
WILL NOT INJURE THE FINEST FABRICS.
' NO HEAT REQUIRED.
D r apers, Chemists, Stationers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, &c., i!
ANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
! BUDGEREE!!
■^ADE
1C
'Zx /
MARK,
Vftv H’tiv hn, is the me
' Phi "‘Us, ls ehohl should be without it,
“ ' > ’ Sold by all chemists.
most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever-destroyer
as it instantly kills all bad smells arising from
J 4S.
C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
CIANB !
A.UBNTS FOR THE
HlTJbl.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,
lE=I-A.3SrOS,
ORGA N S, MUSIC.
197 Pttt-st., Sydney,
SALK GYL
e/(9^ / c) v - 5
m
bvud AAtdy
BY THE PROPRIETOR,
XTOOTH'PASTt
f U/jRityLL ED 9of{ rrSfif/T/SEPr/C
Ado CLEAf/sifo PROPERTIES.
T,B,MELHUISH, Pharmaceutical Chemist
* 134 William ST, SYD N£Y^ A
SSiiiniiilTlT,
107 PITT STREET,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
£
o
\9^i
ft:
■>?
OOT
Shoe Bazaar
252 a George £*
late PeaJe cuvcls /farcourh SYDJfJ&Y
TS
00
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OK
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
Til® Finest Quality ok Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st, Sydney.
HOES
HOES
i
CO
JX9
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompariblo
with coffee or choese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
71 Sussex Street, Sydney.
THE ORIGINAL
BAKING
%
%
WAUGH'S
*
UGH 5
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AY/ARD
* C R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
*.V
&
urn
y /
15THE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT I
WAUG H 6
RECE IVEDTHE INTERN AT j OH AL
.j £ D m.
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Cro cers and Storekeepers
V U /
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Begs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas,
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen's Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers'
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental mid American makers. A choice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen's
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will'be faithfully guaranteed -at
603 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, '.
Inspection Invited, Price List on application,
G
ENTLEMEN’3 CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
159 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street,
. BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst!
quenching properties of this world renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to bo obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —KEIGWIN and
HARTSON, Solo Agents.
PARRY & Cs*
EXTRACT
il ■ 31T’
Ofe:
m.
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF HI0:


street.
MELBOURNE. J
mu & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, & c -
Gacnt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof oases, warranted a most correct and BEUABI
. , Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
tIIBP
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.’—Lancet.
ALL AX A. MARSHALL & CO.,
importers and Manufacturers of
Diving Qear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hy SSip: and House Sanitary "Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Bi-ass and’Bell FcmndSngv Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppcrsmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank, and Gitddr Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S ‘"FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN ” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER- f
v . y WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agewl&lfcr- Verify JSros., Patent Air Propellers, EvlimiM Fan Cowls, lias Fires, Heaters,
.Warmers, dr.
BOS ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 IACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATUTA.
Aiiti-Dyspeptic or Cocop, Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUBLE COCOA OB' THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR
OR ADMIXTURE, s
The Faculty pronounce it the,.“most nutritious,
Supper ; » n * ««vn-iu*
srfecfcly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon, and
and in valuable for Invalids and Young Children.
Bein" absolutely “all Cocoa," with the excess-of fat extracted, is four times the strength of preparations thickened yet
weakened with arrowroot,’starch, 3te.\ and in reality cheaper than such mixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast
cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in a concentrated
form. » Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
HOT CELEBRATED FORREMARKABLY SUSTAINING PROPERTIES. SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR EARLY
BREAKFASTS. ADOPTED AS A MEDICAL COMFORT IN THE ROYAL NAVY.
breakfasts.
Retailed by - Chemists, Grocer?, &c.'
in air-tight tins, at Is. 6d., 35., 55., 6d., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Agents,
Schweitzer & Co., 10 Adams-st., Strand, W.C., London,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
IS, T, A •p.TrTTT^
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extrusive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines
■and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
H« can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
, . which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
:-C ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL-BRANDS, ONE-SHILLING,EACH I>ER. QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS o“F WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
* A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASKS.OF TIIF, ABOVE. j
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines lind of the -best quality, all returns being allowed for. j
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, knd delivered at the Railway Station dr any wharf in the'city, or
, . ■ ’ any country-station, Free of Charge.
F. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £, 3 Cases, containing the following :
3 Hot ties BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY , 7 Bottles. LOWNDES' RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM . 1 Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS . I Bottle OLD TOM j
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles’contained in P. R. L.'s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have, given .perfect satis-
faction u> purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable, at the Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE TIIE ADDRESS ;
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
~ naiuxoouuo tvaxn « UW u “ ““''“"r'
PRINCE -OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND-GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-stoect.,. Sydney.
"1
\
' NEW ■ j
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES, :
YORK STREET,! WYNYARD SQUARE,
■; ' IT AND
60 CLAIREISCE! STRIET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES. MfTTH J*RICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
BRAY &
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK
i#
~w
('(inipldo Photographic Outfits In great variety, Iron*
. (re«-
„ -pho
The Latest Works and Publications on ;
tog l *
SOLE AGENTS FOR BAKER’S DRY PLATE, THE MOST RE I
IN THE MARKET.
cliabU 5
aNP
i?A s
pjP
OCR PHOTOGRAPHIC PREPARATIONS ARE
VARIED, BEST, AND CHEAPEST IN THE
C-A.L3L
CATERER AND
654 GEORGE
WEDDINGS, BALLS. PICNICS, AND PARTIES A
o
, i
SCHOTT d£
; MUSIC SELLREG BY SB lOC IA I, APPOINTMENT TO I 188 JIAjB?l L, <T ’
281 GEORGE STREET, SYP> T | r / aj
'* -' ; r Aus^ 8 ' c . .v*
Also, Af LONDON, MATENCK, PARIS, AND o' l . j JfS'.,/
LARG E S T STO 0 ;K I N TI I E
0 OE 0 N
ror iy Ydun<a§
COMMERCIAL
GULGON&
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR
w
H. P. GREGORY &
CO'f
Are SOLE AGENTS for
A2>
T. Fay ds Co.,
And carry a Laryo Stock of their CeTehr& Xfcsl ' 1 ' j>’
T,I>IP
„ 'Htf (Jj
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING ANT) SAVv’- 1
‘Sbnd for Catalog©®* and PR ItrESf "
sf.
,r Q^’ y '
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET.
" ■■ It’ ,A
“BOOKS.” Any Book' Yon Want* r fi^^
ANGUS (Sc RQBE^' 1 ✓
112 MARKET STKRKT, 5,', > .^
Large stock of new and second-hand Books, i Price of . any book o» *• fj
mail to any part of Australia- ----W'L A A
A
OFFORD S*
cns*€-k
LIGHTEST, BEST, and;
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, 'and at 052 0
IB O ■W L W D S,
: j LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, '*sss
Manufacturer of jail kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of ■
■' BALLARAT, MELBOURNE,- and at ’ - >
j 3 1 and 33 HU NTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for AErated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liq« elirSl
