

The Bulletin
Vol. 7—No. 355,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1886.
Price., 6d 2
f
dfdfd
“Cut Out?”
"M r. J. P. Abbott has declared for Protection, and took the chair at the big Sydney demonstration."— N.S.W. Paper.
COLONIAL SECRETARY DIBBS: "POOH! BELIEVE HE HAS ANY SERIOUS INTENTIONS-HES ALWAYS CARRYING ON WITH SOMEBODY."


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STKEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. .. £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. ~ ~ 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
t vnces should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cotidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending tyISS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in ADVANCE —which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony j
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £ 1 to anyone I
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in I
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter- I
ere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader I
o The Bulletin will forward him the name and I
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1886,
Civil Service Hours.
The proposed extension of the hours of
labour in the clerical branches of the New
South Wales Civil Service has been met by
numerous objections. These, in the mai
are of a trivial character, and, with t\
exceptions, unworthy of serious notice. Th
Civil servants themselves should murmur a ;
the new order of things is not remarkable.
Their dissatisfaction is a natural result o '
the change ; that their discontent is we' -
grounded is clearly a non sequitur. So f
the advocates arising from within their ran is
have been conspicuously unsuccessful
their special pleading ; they have show
anger, but have utterly failed to sho
cause. It generally happens thus when
man with a bad case attempts to justify it bv
reasons evolved from his own emotion.
* * *
Of the two prominent objections to whic i
allusion has been made, the one regarc s
only the Civil servant himself, and assert
that the exaction of another hour’s attei
dance is unfair to him ; the other views a
grades of wage-earners, and declares tha
this new demand from one class of worker
will operate against the lower classes, anc
will at the least prevent any furthe
amelioration of their condition. Inasmuc i
as concession gained by the most depressec
of wage-earners are always preceded b
benefits obtained by workers of a highe"'
grade it is urged that an imposition on Civi
servants must react ultimately against th
workers in inferior positions. A. thoughtfu
correspondent of The Bulletin, who
although a Civil servant, and therefore pre
sumably prejudiced, nevertheless deserve
consideration of his argument, states what h
calls the “Democratic side” thus :
“ Let us suppose that the Civil servant’s tim
of labour instead of having been increased to
eight hours per day had been reduced to six
would not this have been, in the hands of able men
the thin end of the wedge that should help to
burst up the inert mass of ridiculous old notions
which prolong the real slavery of those obliged to
bring their liberty to market in exchange foi
wages? If a body of people who can read anc.
write, and are as yet without a standing army
choose to give their public servants a fair day’s
wage for six hours’ work—how long after this
would they themselves work more than six hours
a day ? Have 1 shown that it would have been a
good thing to the workman had the Civil servant’s
hours of labour been reduced ? Then it is an evil
that his hours of labour have been increased.”
The last sentence shows the argument to be
unsound. The admitted rule is that the
direction of concessions is downwards, affecting
skilled workers first, and then coursing
through the veins of labour until it at last
reaches the unskilled toilers, while depres-
sions first affect the lower classes and tend
upwards. But in the present instance the
imposition operates first upon what our cor-
respondent considers the higher class of
labourers. Clearly then there must be some
causes to make the case an exception, or
else somefacts which removeitfromthe opera-
tion of the rule. The latter alternative serves
to explain the seeming phenomenon, for it is
evident upon reflection that the Civil servants
cannot bo considered labourers in the generic
sense. They are a privileged class, the aristo-
crats of the kingdom of workers, and the \ aria-
tions of their conditions affect the producing
classes in an inverse, not a direct, ratio.
This can bo easily demonstrated by a refer-
ence to effect. The officers are sustained by
the efforts of taxpayers wdio are in the main
labourers ; their hours being lengthened by
one-seventh the staff can also be reduced by
one-seventh without impairing its efficiency.
The taxpayers of the community, therefore,
will only be required to contribute six
sevenths of the amount formerly requirec
Thus the extension of Civil Service hour
ameliorates the lot of the working classes i
that it demands a less tribute from then
Suppose that'our correspondent’s desire hac
been regarded, and the hours of Civil ser
vants fixed at not six but three hours pe
diem—one-half of their former limit. The
the staff must necessarily have been doublec
for the due performance of the work. Woulc
this have been a benefit to the working
classes ? Assuredly not, for then they, th
producers, would have been called upon t
furnish twice the sum now required from
them, for the maintenance of these non-pro
ducers. For it must not be forgotten tha
Civil servants directly produce nothing
They afford facilities and security to th
national wealth-producers, but still, if by
any possible method their services could be dis
pensed with, the national wealth would be th
more easily increased by the sum of the cost o:
their maintenance. They simply represem
the necessary friction in the working of the
State engine : to increase the power of
machine by adding to its friction is at
eminently unsatisfactory device.
* * *
Forsaking the former line of argument
we would consider the Civil servants not as
a non-producing but as a privileged class
Regarded in this light it is incontestable tha
while the tendency of English Democracy
has been to elevate the working classes, ii
has no less strongly wrought against the
Civil servants from the monarch downwards.
Time was when the King c mid appropriate
millions without being called to account
therefor, and could appoint whomsoever he
chose to positions of large emolument anc
undefined duties. Then the Civil servant
was entirely a creature of patronage, and his
salary frequently a gift from the nation,
awarded by the king. Every year both
in England and Australia sees heavier re-
strictions placed upon the monarch’s ser-
vants, yet every year witnesses the advance-
ment of the labouring and wealth-producing
classes. One main" object of Democracy is
the abolition of all privileges. Democracy
would take away the privilege of legislative
power from the Royal Family and the peers
—the privilege of immunity from criminal
proceedings from the aristocrat and prelate,
and the privilege of comparative indolence
from the Civil servant. This recent exten-
sion of New South Wales Civil Service hours
is merely the confiscation of a privilege to
which State officers erroneously considered
themselves entitled. If other privileges—
those which permit of continued drunken-
ness, habitual idleness, and premeditated
insolence—were at the same time wrested
from the Civil Service, then might it be said,
that Democracy was asserting its inherent
strength, and by every deprivation of such
privilege, by every force exerted against the
Civil servants’ prerogative of indolence, and
by every attack upon patronage and favourit-
ism, the producers of the country would
benefit. The more efficient the Civil Service
can be made, the less tribute for its main-
tenance will be required from the taxpayer.
The Democratic policy is to rip the whole
sum of privilege from the Civil Service, as
well as from the nobility and aristocracy,
and not to invest these classes with new
immunities, opportunities, and advantages.
* °
It is further urged that the exaction of
another hour’s attendance is unfair to the
Civil servant himself. Here the point turns
upon a question of fact. It will be admitted
at the outset that the N.S.W. Civil servant,
whether his work involve the exercise
of professional skill or is . merely clerical,
had, and even where the extra hour has
been taken by the State still has, shorter
hours than any other wage-receiver in the
community. And his work, if not lighter,
is in many cases purely optional. There is
none of the high-pressure work in a Govern-
ment Department, which is the rule in mer-
cantile houses, banks, or haberdashery em-
poriums. The “ Government stroke,” with
but rare exceptions obtains throughout the
service. Why, then, should the Civil ser-
vant be more favoured in the matter of hours
than the bank clerk or haberdasher’s assis-
tant ? We cannot tell, nor can those who
urge this alleged argument. But it is
further contended that Civil servants should
be treated with exceptional favour because
their work is such as to render them incapable
of achieving success in any other walk of
life, if they should at any time leave the ser-
; vice. This is an excellent truth wrongly
stated. The fact is that the average Civil
servant is a man so conspicuously deficient
in brains or energy that he was put into a
Government billet because there was no hope
of hissucoeeding elsewhere. “A scamp for the
Navy and a fool for the Church ” is said to be
■ the English family rule; in Australia a different
reading is adopted. Here a scamp for the As-
sembly and a fool for the Civil Service is the
revised version. Where the family consists
solely of fools they all seek Government
billets, but there are few men of energy,
talent, and resource, who have any reason-
able excuse for hiding their light under the
Civil Service bushel. Such men may enter
the official ranks, but rarely continue therein
long, unless their selected place is in the
Treasury, the only New South Wales De-
partment which is conducted on anything
like business principles. As to the rest of
the gentlemen of the Civil Service, the huge
majority exercise their incapacity to the
smallest extent possible : a minority give a
portion of their time to the State, but use
their brains for the composition of poetry,
“ our Sydney correspondent” letters, Council
clerkships, and various little swindles. Neither
of these classes can be said to merit much
consideration. And the small minority —the
intelligent, energetic, and conscientious men
who do their best in the interests of the
State—can hardly be deemed to be over-
worked if their hours when extended are
still less than those to which merchants’
clerks are bound. On neither ground stated,
nor on any other, does it seem possible to
justify the discontent of the Civil servants
whose hours have been lengthened, or to
commiserate with them in their affliction.
The Clerics and the Trust Funds.
From the tenor of much correspondence forwarded
to The Bulletin office from time to time, it would
seem that many persons in Liverpool and other
parts of New South Wales are under the erroneous
impression that the successive Anglican bishops
of Sydney have perpetrated a gross fraud upon the
boys of Liverpool by depriving them of educa-
tional advantages provided by the late Mr,
Thomas Moore, The accusation is, that funds
intended for the support of a free Grammar School
have been perverted, and applied for the main-
tenance of a college wherein candidates for the
Anglican ministry are coached at stated charges.
The indictment is, we shall presently show, only
in part sustainable by evidence, but before dealing
directly with the subject it is worth while to look
at the circumstances under which the bequest was
made.
* * *
Mr. Thomas Moore was a generous man, and
possessed much landed property. The Anglican
Church had his highest reverence : ultimately
it had his estates also. The first acquisition by
the Church comprised 6394 acres of land near
Liverpool: this estate was divided as to
revenue between the bishop and his clergy
so carefully, that what the former facetiously
called his half produced just twice as much
as the remainder. Now the trustees are pressing
for a sale, and, according to evidence before a
Parliamentary committee, expect to realise £75,000
for the property. The next grant to the Church
was of some land in Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and
finally, by his will Mr. Moore, who died in 1840,
bequeathed Liverpool town and farm lands con-
taining altogether 730 acres to Bishop Broughton
and two other trustees as endowment for the
future Moore’s College. Nor did this devise exhaust
the testator’s bounty to strangers; for of the resi-
due of his estate, after payment of small legacies
to old servants, one-fourth of the annual revenue
was ordered to be paid to the Society for the Pro-
motion of Christian Knowledge, one-fourth to old
men whom the Trustees should appoint, one-
fourth to widows similarly selected “as long as
they remained unmarried and chaste,” and one-
fourth to clergymen receiving less than £3OO a
year. From all this it will be seen that Mr.
Moore’s generosity to the Church was such as to
demand the closest possible observance of his
wishes with regard to property bequeathed upon
Special Trust.
* * *
To return to Moore’s College. The lands and
tenements devoted to the endowment ofjthis insti-
tution were directed to be applied
“For the education of boys or youths of the Protestant
p ersuMi®n ra the principles of Christian knowledge and
such other branches of moral useful and general information
as my said trustees shall from time to time direct and an
point and as shall be consistent with and in furtherance
of my intention, and desire that the encouragement and
maintenance of piety and virtue and religious instruction
nf C ir r Mo S u° tfF Principles of the United Protestant Church
of England and Ireland should be the principal object of my
said trustees in regulating the said college or establishment/'
So far, the testator’s words seem to favour the
contention that he intended the erection of a
. Grammar School where boys and youths might re-
ceive their whole education, but the next clause
shows that something different was desired.
1 herein the trustees are ordered and directed to
“ Elect appoint and admit as pupils or scholars into the
said college or establishment so many boys and youths from
the age of sixteen to twenty-three as they may think fit and
proper and as the said college or establishment will con-
veniently hold and contain."
The stipulation as to age quite disposes of the
Grammar-school idea ; boys who accept a free
education could not wait for it until they had at-
tained the age of sixteen. Considerable doubt then
arises as to Mr. Moore’s real object in founding
the college. He may have intended that it should
supply scholars with that higher education in
useful knowledge which was not then obtain-
able within the colony, and there is nothing
whatever in the first-quoted passage to render
this view in any degree improbable. On the other
hand, he may have desired that the College should
be devoted to the study of Theology, but the
words are not sufficiently definite to make this by
any means certain ; and there is absolutely
nothing which may be construed as indicating a
Wish (hat the funds should be used to enable
candidates to qualify themselves for the Anglican
ministry. Bishop Barry himself admits this for
when examined before the St. James’ School Com-
pensation Trust Bill Committee, on the Ist July
last, he said, in answer to question 74 ;
“ Mr. Moore’s will would allow us at any time to turn the
or/i'school.” n ° Wn aS Mo ° RE ’* College into a general cofiege
Whether, under these circumstances, the trustees
are justified in limiting the benefits derivable
from the endowment to candidates for Holy
Orders is certainly, at the least, an open question
* * *
But in one other particular the trustees are cer-
tainly pursuing an unjustifiable course, that is, if
it be true as alleged, that they regularly charge
tees to all students who enter at the college.
4 here is no defined power under the will enabling
trustees to make any charges, and the general
clause only empowers the trustees to establish—
rules a “ d regulations as they may think proper for
umKSin S® . Ba i d college or estabhshment the
numoe and mode of admission of the boys and youths to be
admitted therein and the period or periodsforwh£h they
als a o y a° g °to SeVvVm o^ 6 in cohere anl
the t llmlr/t ed l loat,lon / 0 be ado P ted and taught
stractioi/of the 6 scholars.” ** aPP ° mted and used for the in '
In this case as power to do certain acts is given
made of otheracts ’ the usua i
lega! rule that the mention of one thing excludes
otherthmgsunmentioned apphes. And, further, the
whole tenor of the will implies that the scholars
were to be educated without cost to themselves.
In the first quotation, for instance, it will be
noticed the trustees are empowered to “elect
appoint and admit ’’—words implying a patronage
at variance with the idea that pupils may be
charged any fees. In another clause the trustees
are directed to use part of the funds for “the
purchase of book*, papers, and other mater- i
necessary for the instruction of the bovs » Z t
showing that the boys were not ’
charged even for the books they used • and be
elusive testimony as to the
charging the students for their instruction ° f
afforded by that clause which directs that— ° n 18
“ In case at any time or times hereafter the funds. i,„ ,
appropriated by me for the support and mainten3L
said college or establishment shall so far increase tSv 6 the
to enable my said trustees to extend the benefits IS !l lue aa
college by the admission of any numberofbo?A he s , aid
boarders or inmates,” as free
they shall admit as many as they think
and expedient. The words italicised are evFdlnll
that Mr. Moore did not reckon upon any reve n “
beyond that which he provided. Ami if it I
thought that free boarders are to bo distinguished
from the scholars previously provided for the fait
that these latter were to be “elected” and “ an
pointed,”|and supplied gratis with material would'
together with the absence of stated power in
charge fees, be sufficient evidence to the
trary. The more reasonable and only consistent
explanation is that which is based on the assume
tion that the first-named pupils were day scholars
as free as the boarders or inmates subsequently
named. The fact that all the students who have
studied at Moore’s College were not within the
stipulated ages is of no weight when compared
with the fact that fees were exacted from them
Whether the charges were innocently made bv
the clerical trustees or not does not alter the fact
that these were extortionate and illegal • and if
any of the clerics who received their education at
that college are inclined to make a little “rise”thev
will probably be able to do so by suing for a return
of their fees.
* * *
Referring again to the last quotation, it will be
noticed that any surplus funds were to be applied
for the benefit of free-boarders. Whether there
ever were any free boarders or not we cannot tell
but on Bishop Barry’s evidence we find that the
surplus funds of Moore’s College have been per-
verted to other purposes. In his evidence before
St. James School Committee he said, referring to
church property in Phillip-street, Sydney valued
in June 1885 at £10,000:
“ The property was originally purchased by a grant from
the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge with
finite view to the establishment of a Theological College and
subsequently a claim was put in by Moore’s College on the
one side and by St. Paul’s College, in connection with the
University, on the other, both claiming to be Theolo<fifil
College [«fcj in connection with the Church of England "The
society divided the value of the property between them w
Moore’s College bought out St. Paul’s CoUege.” ’ but
This little bit of evidence would seem to prove
that the trustees under Moore’s will had a breezy
style of dispensing (of course for the good of the
Church) the funds they acquired, and did not
seem to regard the free boarders much so long as
there was a promising spec, in church property
offering, Wliether such investments amounted
to malversation of trust money is a matter of
opinion, but in any case the candidates for vacan-
cies on the free-boarder list would seem to have
some grounds for just complaint. Mr. Moore
was a magnificent patron of the Church: his
generosity was worthy of a nobler return than it
has received from the prelates and parsons who at
times have had the power of disposal and perver-
sion of his Moore’s College endowment funds.
The moral of the whole history of that institution
is that clerical trustees do not always permit their
righteousness to interfere with the exercise of
their ability in matters financial.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New South Wales Chief Justice.
Julian E. Salomons is appointed Chief Justice c f
New South Wales, and straightway an inspiied
howl goes up from the Sydney Evening News
against the appointment. Salomons has no
dignity, say they—why didn’t the Ministry take
Peter I aucett, or Owen, or M. H. Stephen,
or Water-jug Foster? Well, we can tell
them. Owen is not in Australia, and the colony
could not wait for his return before appointing a
Chief Justice. The able and truly dignified
Judge Faucett has done his work, and now thinks
of retiring ; the comparatively forceless Matthew
Henry Stephen has never earned or deserved
the reputation at the Bar that Salomons has ;
and as for Water-jug Foster, why, say the
lawyers, “You might as well appoint Win-
deybr. The fact is that Darley, to whom the
appointment was first offered, declined it on two
grounds first and foremost, he found that his
practice brought him in a much larger income
than is attached to the Chief Justiceship—he
preferred the cash, and small blame to him ;
secondly, he possibly thought that the place
would be offered to and accepted by Judge
Faucett, who could not possibly hold it for
more than a year, and that at the end of that
time he (Darley) would at the second time of
asking come in and accept it. However,
if that was his view he has been “ had,”
and he may now digest the fact and ex-
tract from it as much “ wholesome fun” as he can.
Let us proceed to consider the objections that
are taken to the present appointment.
Firstly, then, Mr. Salomons is renowned above
nl ® n at the Bar for his pluck. He is “ all
heart. ’ It was a sight to see him, with energy
in every gesture and in every inflection
of his squeaky voice, arguing, illustrating and
expounding until he converted three hostile and—
alas ! often stupid Judges to the correct view of
some technical point. He never was disheartened.
We have seen him cite case after case and use
argument after argument on some point with an
air of the greatest conviction and then sit down,
having done his work, and say in a hasty under-
tone to his junior: “There are heaps of cases
against me on that very point, if Darley
only knew And it is, perhaps, for this very
reason that he is obiected to—he is too prone to
resort to tricks of the trade. But surely this only
amounts to saying that he is a first-class counsel,
and if that is any hindrance to a Chief Justiceship
we have yet to learn the fact. Again, he was
above all other counsel in the unremitting atten-
tion he gave to his cases, in the courteous manner
in which he would take a suggestion from a
junior, and in the interest he took in his work.
1 o be sure, as a solicitor once said of him, “You
can see fees sticking out all over him,” and we
admit having heard that Salomons would
take in his hand a brief which did not
bear a sufficient number of “ guas.” to please
him, and that after closely scanning the amount
with his dexter-eye, he would remark : “Well, yes;
this is a case in which I would like to be engaged, butl
am very busy indeed, and unless” and here he
would look suggest!v sly at the solicitor, an opera-
tion generally followed by an alteration in figures
—by the addition of a “ nought,” perhaps, to the
tee. This, of course, was “unprofessional”—a
barrister’s fee is a “honorarium” and he should
never haggle about the amount of it. The correct
course, as laid down by pretty nearly
aU our senior counsel but Salomons, is to take
the fee and then never go near the case. You


could always depend that if Salomons took up
our case you would have a first-class fight for
vour money. As to his ability to conduct a heavy
case to marshal facts, and argue points of law,
there is no question. He is more brilliant than
Owen with an equal knowledge of law-streets
ahead’of Matthew Henry Stephen in every
“espect—and as to Water-jug Foster, Win-
peyer, and Co., he is incomparably their superior.
Then, why should he not have the Chief Justice-
ship ?’ Harley has announced his preference for
the “ good old greed.” Petek Fauoett, a sound
though slow lawyer, is far too old to hold the
office for more than a year or two at most. It
would, perhaps, have been a graceful act to give
it to the genial, honourable old man worn with his
years of yeoman service on the Bench. But it
would have been a makeshift appointment at best
—and we repeat that after disposing of the claims
of Harley and Fauoett, Salomons is the man
who is entitled to the honour. The obj ection to him
is according to the Evening News, his want of
“ presence ” —his want of good Heavens ! - aris-
tocratic position his lack of the highest social
recognition! ” Now let us put it fairly to the
people of New South Wales. If a man has by an
energy as untiring as that of a steam-engine by
an ability which is known and recognised through-
out the length and breadth of the land by a
knowledge of law which is unsurpassed amongst
the present lawyers of the colony—and by _ the
pluck and tenacity of a soldier-ant, qualified
himself for the highest position in his profession,
then is want of “social standing” or lack of impos-
ing stature to be a bar to his advancement to that
position? Listen to this “democratic” daily
journal, ye men with sons starting on their career !
Industry, ability, energy, success, all go for
naught unless accompanied by “ social position.
You must be six feet high with an Irish brogue
aefore you can be fit to occupy the centre seat in
the Banco Court. This is the Evening News
logic. But in the meantime, suitors may rest con-
tent that Sir James Martin’s place is filled by an
able successor; and let New South congra-
tulate the new Chief Justice on his appointment.
For if patience, pluck, and perseverance ever
met a just reward yet they did so when the
Hebrew' Julian Salomons, member of the Aristo-
cracy of Brains, was appointed Chief Justice of
New South Wales.
*.
Prize Lots at Kurrajong.
An interesting case of what looks like conspiracy
to defraud was before Sydney Supreme Court
last week. An unnamed solicitor and a firm of
tradesmen also unnamed were the alleged parties.
The published statements aver that the tradesmen
bought 200 acres of land at or near Kurrajong for
£2OO, and subdivided the same into about 2000
lots, which were given as prizes to some persons
to whom tickets had previously been sent. The
“ lucky winners ” were required to forward £3 3s.
to pay for title-deeds, and according to the asser-
tion of Mr. Edmunds, the barrister who moved in
the matter by applying for a rule nisi against
the solicitor, the latter accepted £1 Is, as his
fee for supplying the deeds, and the tradesmen
retained £1 19s. per lot, thus making a net profit
of, say £l5 per acre out of the property “ given
away” in prizes. Generosity in this case
brought its own reward. It is difficult to
believe that the game can be allowed to
pass without a fitting termination. That
people would not have paid the deed-ffe?e to
secure their prizes if they had been aware of the
circumstances is certain ; it was a false pretence
that drew their money from them. The trades-
men’s letter to winners plainly states : “We have
made a contract with our solicitors to complete
deed, abstract of title, registration stamps, &c.,
for the sum of £3 3s.”—whereas it now appears
that the solicitor only received £1 Is. of that
amount. A clear and punishable fraud was there-
fore enacted, and the Crown Law officers are cog-
nisant of its facts. The solicitor was called upon
to explain his share of the transaction next term
but he is not the only one who should be interro-
gated ; the tradesmen, who got most out of the
affair, should also be required to stand “behind
the spikes.” There is one other thing that de-
serves notice in this case. In the proceedings so
far as they have gone the names of the
parties were not mentioned ; , thus a gross
Wrong has unintentionally been done to other
parties, for Messrs. R. and A. Kurts, of Sydney,
as is well-known, purchased 200 acres of land at
Kurrajong some time ago for £2OO, and cut it into
about 2000 allotments which they distributed as
prizes to lucky winners, and the contract with their
solicitor, Mr. Lewis Levy, of Castlereagh-street,
Sydney,’was for £3 3s. per transfer. There being
coincident facts in the two cases, it will be sur-
mised that Messrs. Kurts are the tradesmen m
question—a suspicion that cannot fail to be detri-
mental to them in business. Lest innocent per-
sons should be suspected, the name of the parties
alluded to in Court—and whom we are unable to
name here —should at once be published,
—
Render Unto Osesar.
The New South Wales Government seems to have
forgotten that criminal proceedings against Messrs.
Wright Heaton and Co. do not exhaust the
remedy against that and other firms. W hether
fraud has been committed or not, the fact still
remains that the carriers in many established
instances did not pay so much as according to
contract to the department they were legally re-
quired to pay. And this deficiency is recoverable,
where not within the Statute of Limitations, by
legal process. The civil action might be at once
instituted and proceed concurrently with the
criminal prosecution, or it might be initiated as
soon as the verdict in the latter case is recorded.
If no suit for the recovery of these shortages is
entered, Messrs. Wright, Heaton, and the numer-
ous other defendants, may congratulate themselves
upon their dealings with the Railway Department,
although one result of these transactions may be
five years’ imprisonment all round, for the amount
of loss to the Hepartment altogether cannot be
less than £50,000, and is probably far in excess
of that amount, so that if the sentences amounted
in the aggregate to 50 years, the sufferers would
actually receive at the rate of £lOOO a year
during the period of their enforced retirement.
When a common thief is arrested, the plunder
which he bears is taken from him ; when a man
fails to fulfil his contract, he is forced by law to
pay up what is still due. The railway defendants
admittedly stand in one or the other of these
positions.’ If they are thieves they must not be
allowed to profit by dishonesty; if they are
debtors, they must be made to unto
Cassar the things that are C/esar s.
Political Judges.
In the matter of the selection of a Chief Justice
in place of the late Sir James Martin the hoary
old tradition that the Attorney-General _ has the
first claim for consideration in the appointment to
any vacancy which may occur in the Supreme
Court Bench during his tenure of olhee, was
again asserted by Mr. John Want, who however
had sufficient wisdom not to avail himself of the
alleged right it confers. Mr. W ant is in no way
fitted for the position of Chief Justice, and there-
fore waived hia supposed claim with creditable
promptitude. But this action on his part is no
excuse for the existence of the tradition. It may
be that when the next vacancy in the Supreme
Court Bench occurs, an Attorney-General with
even, less qualification than Mr. Want possesses
may insist upon his “ claim for consideration ” and
degrade the position to himself. There is ample
precedent for such a course. New South Wales
before now has witnessed the spectacle of a man,
not by any means the best available, climbing up
to the Bench by means of this ladder of tradition.
In its essence this “right” is merely the conse-
quence of “might.” The Attorney-General is of
the Cabinet; if he can gain the consent of
the Premier, who is naturally inclined to
favour him, any vacant position on the
Bench is within his grasp. Had the va-
cancy occurred during Sir John Robertson's
recent brief tenure of power, Mr. G. B. Simpson
might have grabbed the Chief Justiceship, not-
withstanding the possession of superior qualifica-
tion by other candidates. Howsoever considered,
this claim for consideration is utterly bad. It is in
part supported on the ground that the Attorney-
General is leader of the bar ; but this leadership is
solely the result of his ministerial office. The
premier position he claims at the bar is not the
crown of legal taut of political labours. During
the past 12 months there have been three “ leaders
of the bar ” in this sense, and within a few
months a barrister who would not be trustedto
apply for a probate, may be enabled by Parlia-
ment to claim the title. There is yet another
side to the question. The court frequently is
called upon to decide cases arising out of Parlia-
mentary proceedings, and thus a political judge
may have to review the conduct of his own party.
If, for instance, Mr. Want had jumped the Chief
Justiceship, he might have been called upon to de
cide whether Mr. Slattery, in “ acting splendidly”
in the matter of Mr. Shepherd’s expulsion from
the House, had made himself liable to penalties
thereby. Nothing but a Tory veneration for all
things old can attempt to justify the continuance
of the tradition which makes the Chief Justiceship
the spoil of the Attorney-General.
+
Stolen Sentiment in the Sydney
Herald.
The S.M. Herald has, we observe, been
sold like a cheap dog by the (apparently clerical)
individual who was sent to report on the Mel-
bourne Cup race. He filled a couple of long
columns with his sportive gush, miscellaneous
eloquence, picturesque moralisings gloomy
musings, sermons, prayers, hog-wash ana weird
mixture of horse and Jeremiah. We chance to
notice, however, that his brightest passage is “bor-
rowed ” without acknowledgment from the second
chapter of Ouida’s “ Chandos,” and considerably
spoilt in the borrowing, the original novelist and
the Herald’s horsey curate reading thus
Ouida.
“ Death had made gaps in
the crowd, but new-comers
filled up the rents, and the
lost were unrnissed. Brows
that the last year had been
stainless as snow had been
smirched with slander or
stained with shame; but the
opals crowning them belied
their ancient fame and did
not pale. Light hearts had
grown heavy, proud heads
had been bent, fair cheeks
had learned to cover care with
pearl-powder, words _ had
been spoken that life-time
could not recall, links had
been broken that an eternity
would not unite, seeds of sin
and sorrow had been sown
never again to be uprooted.”
S, M. Herald.
“ Among the exquisite
colours of some tastefully
and elegantly-dressed ladies
you can detect the fanciful
richness of some Heinegail-
larde of a lawless court, there
are golden-haired Helens, and
brows as thoughtful as that
of Marcus Aurelius. There
are faces faithless, hitter, and
beautiful. Most of them, no
doubt, were here last year,
hut since last November stain-
less lives have been smirched
with slander or stained with
shame, light hearts have grown
heavy, fair cheeks have been
covered with care and pearl-
powder, and words have been
spoken that a life-time cannot
recall, l inks broken that eter-
nity cannot reunite. Sin and
sorrow never again to be up-
rooted. But what do they
wear ? Who are brave in
beautiful goods to-day? They
burn the old and raise the
phoenix of the new. What
do the thousands care ? ”
We have not had time as yet to ascertain from
whom the rest of the article was prigged, but we
mean to find out the original author of a passage
about the Alexandrians and Athenians, and
“ Seraphis ” and Isis—it certainly was not the
original composition of the Herald man, for he
doesn’t know how to spell Serapis. We will not
speculate too much as to the cause of the
Herald’s degradation, for we cannot believe that
this atrocious little swindle was perpetrated in
cold blood. Perhaps somebody was drunk ; and
It may he that the man at Melbourne got jugged
by a brutal policeman and it was necessary to
hash up something in a hurry from Ouida and Job
and any other of the minor prophets who came to
hand ; perhaps the Devil was dancing a jig in
the office, and goading the staff to madness till
they were mean enough to steal from a hog, let
alone from a lady novelist; or possibly someone
had backed the wrong animal and the horse was
“ praying” on his mind and putting him up to all
sorts of cussedness. Let ns draw the nose-bag of
charity over the scene.
4
Hell and the Collection-Plate.
The Rev. J. H. Browne, President of the Con-
gregational Union of Victoria, delivered a tirade
against the Salvation Army the other day, in
which he formulated several charges against it
such as that it was “ irreverent,” “it depreciated
the work of the other churches” (what work?),
and its theology was “sulphurous.” This latter
is an amusing charge for a minister to make. Do
the other forms of religion want to have a mono-
poly of Hell! Does Mr, Browne consider that
the “churches” have a pre-emptive right in the
Devil ? It would seem so, because they use him
as their right bower on all occasions. He is never
in such demand as at missions and revival meet-
ings, because the clergy know well that nothing
fills the collection-plate like Fear. We were at
one of these once. A priest with a bristly skull
was just finishing his sermon as we came in. Did
he impress upon the congregation that they should
do right because it was right and would bring its
own reward ? Did he tell them that they should
be good for the sake of a good God who loved
them and sent His only Son to die for them ? Did
he even hold out a life of everlasting happiness in
Heaven as a bribe for their living virtuous
lives on earth ? Not he. “ Hell,” he thundered,
“ Hell—an eternal Hell—is yarning for you!”
(Sensation among the audience.) “You shall die
in your sins.” Here his voice seemed to rumble
under the floor and strong men shuddered and
the women sobbed convulsively in their handker-
chiefs. “ Your portion shall be for ever and
ever with the wurrnm that never dies.” This
cheerful statement concluded the sermon and the
elders were around two minutes afterwards with
the plates. It was the biggest collection (so we
were subsequently assured by one of them) that
had been taken in that church for many a day.
The real charge against the Salvation Army, how-
ever is neatly dovetailed in amongst these
others so that nobody who could not put his
finger on the sore place would suspect it. It is
“ its blameworthy depletion of existing congre-
gations in small townships.” The old, old story—
the collection plate. How many ministers'would
care whether their churches were crowded or
half empty if the amounts collected w r ere the
same in either case ? How many would prefer a
packed congregation of immortal souls with only
threepence to every three souls to a deaf and off-
handed squatter with a bag of sovereigns ? Not
many we think, and we frankly admit if we were
a minister we would not make one of them. The
average soul is worth very little—even to the
Devil —in these days. There was a time —and a
good old time it was—when if a man lost every-
thing else in this world and was a dead-broker, he
had still his soul left to sell. There are instances
on record of men getting as much gold as would
fill a Wellington boot for their souls. But these
times are past and souls are no longer marketable,
for some reason or other. Perhaps Hell is too
full. Perhaps the Imperial Parliament —regard-
ing us as we do Chinamen, only worse—has
passed a law against admitting any more emi-
grants from the earth. Perhaps the Devil has re-
tired from business altogether, and is passing his
old age in writing sermons. It is a matter of in-
difference to us which of these suppositions is
right. We have no vested interests in Hell.
4
The Fruits of Free-trade,
To find out how far a man may succeed in delud-
ing himself by assertion which it would be absurd
to call argument, it is necessary to read the
articles by Mr. Pulsford, secretary of the New
South Wales Free-trade Association, in the Sydney
daily papers. Free-trade is his god, and all fact,
hostile or otherwise, must bow down and
worship it at his bidding. In a laboured column,
ho last week set himself to prove that woollen
goods can be manufactured in New South Wales
in spite of English competition. This is a pro-
mising task: he sets himself to prove by theory
what continued efforts at woollen-manufacturing
have disproved by ruinous practical experience.
Let us answer Mr. Pulsford according to his
folly, and admit that the manufacture of woollen
goods in New South Wales is a profitable industry ;
it being so, there must of course be very large fac-
tories somewhere in the colony at present, and
the generally accepted reports as to the
disastrous failures of companies that have for-
merly been started in consequence of adherence to
Mr. Pulsford’s theory, and the narrow limits
within which the industry is now con-
fined, must be merely a mistake of
history. It is clear that either the assump-
tion or the facts are incorrect; we prefer
to believe the latter. Mr. Pulsford’s proof of
his theory consists in the statement that £20,000
worth of wool shipped to England and returned as
cloth would cost £3961 in freight, insurance,
cartage, and interest charges, from which
the local manufacturer is free, and there-
fore able to compete on even terms. Again
we accept the manifestly false assumption,
and then find the case to stand thus: the local factory
pays for the manufacture of £20,000 worth of
wool into cloth a sum equal to that paid by the
English manufacturer for labour and £3961
carriage, etc. ; the cost to the ultimate consumer
being identical whether he buys the colonial or
foreign article, all this money however, being in the
one case entirely retained in the colony, in the other
being all transferred to England. The Freetrade
then, which permits the importation of these
goods, directly causes the withdrawal of a part of
the capital of the country necessary to cover the
cost of their manufacture and carriage, and that
without conferring the slightest benefit on the
colonial consumer. And further, it must be re-
membered that one result of Freetrade in this
particular instance is the almost absolute loss to the
world of £3961, or rather of the labour that sum
represents. If the cloth-makers who supply the
New South Wales demand for the product of their
industry were located in some part of that colony
instead of at their native Bradford, all the money
now absorbed by 30,000 miles carriage of wool and
cloth, being saved, would be available as an in-
crease to their present wages. Population and
capital would both accrue to the colony, and the
sum now expended on freights would be saved —
not wasted as at present. We commend these
points to the consideration of Mr. Pulsford’s
disciples. We don’t know whether Freetraders
pay him for his disquisitions ; if they don’t, the
Protectionists certainly should do so in recognition
of the benefits his arguments confer upon their
cause.
■ ♦
A general election being somewhere ahead, not
a single member of Parliament was seen at the
meeting convened in Sydney last week for the
purpose of formally congratulating Miss Bridget
O’Gorman Joan of Arc Auffray on her depar-
ture from the colony, and the attendance even of
Orangemen was very small. The illoquent Adith
has good reason to complain of the political party
she has tried to assist. On her arrival she was
met by Messrs. Neild, Lloyd, Abigail, Foster,
Henson, and other members of the Boyne Water
persuasion, but when departing rone of those are
game to allow their names to appear among those
of her “crowd.” The address presented on this oc-
casion was replete with refined sarcasm of the
bitterest kind ; among other jibes these ungallant
Orangemen slated Adith in these words :
“ We congratulate you upon your deliverance from the
perils of sea and land, and the greater perils which have en-
circled you by the means of the votaries of bigotry and
superstition, and we express the conviction that you have
done a good work which willlive and bear fruit for many years
to come."
The audacity of Orangemen inveighing against
superstition and bigotry to Adith could only he
paralleled by supposing Belial to reprove the sin
gPSathan. The reference to the good work of
the O’Gouman mission and its fertile character
was doubtless inspired by the news that bigotry is
rampant at Lismore and other parts of the colony,
and that in the former town partisans are shed-
ding their nose-blood for the sake of Adith. But
in the whole length of the address we fail to find
any sympathetic allusion to the fact that Joan
Auffray has done more than clear her little
“ exes.”
* —-
It entered into the head of the Brisbane corres-
pondent of the S. M. Herald to “ put away ” that
venerable journal by telling the pure and unadul-
terated truth about the New Hebrides business.
He declares that the Rev. Baton’s agitation
against a French occupation of the islands has
been a fizzle; that none except a few Presby-
terians have assembled to pass the cut-and-dried
resolutions submitted : and that crusader Baton’s
“ influence on public opinion is simply nil.” He
further declares that :
“ Nineteen-twentieths of our population do not care two
straws who rules the New Hebrides, nor what form _of
religion prevails there, and are rather disposed to resist being
bored with those stereotyped cablegrams anent everlasting
interviews between Sir Graham Berry and the chief of the
Colonial Office."
We don’t suppose for a moment that these truths
will prevent Herald leaders from declaring in
the future, as they have done in the past, that
Australia generally, and Queensland especially,
will never permit France to occupy the Hebrides :
nor will the jibe at the “ stereotyped telegrams ”
prevent such messages from appearing with a,c*
customed regularity in big type. Herald views
must be maintained though all the facts in the
world contradict them. Yet although the editorials
cannot he subordinated to facts accredited by
acknowledged correspondents, it is a pity that the
latter class of winters are not made to take the
editorial view. Better to have romance all
through the paper, than to allow truth on one page
to straightly contradict editorial romance on the
other.
♦
That gilt and greasy demonstration, the Lord
Mayor’s Show, has passed off safely in London,
the simple policy of suppressing everything except
the gorged, boa-constriotor-like crowd of munici-
pal lords having prevented any odious comparisor a
between them and the poverty-stricken horde who
ask vainly for the crumbs from the rich man’s
table. The Socialist demonstration was sum*
raarily suppressed by the police, who can always
find a law to stop anything that is calculated to
be disagreeable to the lacquered snobs of creation,
and so London was spared the sight of a procea*
sion made up of bloated corpulence in the van
and the skeleton of gaunt hunger in the rear.
Even the free use of the highway, it appears, is
now forbidden to the starving poor of England,
for a squadron of cavalry followed the procession
to see that no Socialist should annoy the meanest
Cockney gin-shopkeeper of the crowd with his
unholy presence, and another body of troops
undertook the dirty work of dispersing the “un»
employed ” meeting which gathered in Trafalgar-
square. The starving workman, of course, can-
not hire a hall in which to discuss his grievances,
and by the summary process of scattering out»
door assemblages with cavalry he is gagged as
effectually as the Russian convict who toils in the
Siberian mines or rots amid the swamps of Sagha ■
lien. Such is the vaunted British “ freedom of
speech.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ P.P.” : Are they ? But you can’t wipe out
the fact that Sir James Martin was ever a consistent Pro-
tectionist. ..." W.G.” (Tarawera): Very welcome “1% *
Guy”; Will use the letter at the right time.... “Ajax the
Less”: Very clever, but one or two expressions preclude put*
lioation “ A. Kalkedoon ” ; The virtues of your verses
are many, but the faults leave the balance on the wrong
side of our standard.,.Girondin ”: Exquisite sentiment
but awful verse.. V.0.D.” : You sent us 2S jokes, and the
only decent one was the first. So that you judge jokes
better than you make ’em....“ Wanderer ” ; The Queens-
land Leader is an obscure organ of snivel and drivel. When
it asks : “ If men escape against whom the damning evi,
denoe of the dead body of a violated woman is produced, is
it likely that they are ever condemned to be flogged on
false evidence ? " —it begs the whole question, which was :
Were the men charged with the crime the men who com.
mitted it ? Asa matter of fact, there was no real evidence
against them “G.W.S.”: We don’t know who was
originally responsible for the statement that “ Life is but
a warfare on earth,” but he was probably a married man....
“A Gibney” ; Your poem has “seen the light;” it got
burnt....“ P.G.": You say you are determined to fight the
Free-trade bottle out. Your screed looks as if you had
fought some other bottle out before you started to write....
“J.0.H.”: Revised version will pronably appear. ..“Demos”:
It got torn.... “ Senex”: We will senex week “ M.A.T." :
We desire to point out in a friendly way that your method of
orthography has not yet been adopted by any recognised
university. Nor is it usual for diplomatists and other well-
informed persons to spell “ cabbage,” with a K, an I, or a D.
. ...“H.N.”: Your plan for the destruction of rabbits is a
new revelation for Australia, and shows what really great
intellects are capable of evolving. You propose to put an
electric wire in every fence, so that bunny will step thereon
and suddenly die with great slaughter. That plan is excel-
lent, but ours is better. We propose to line every fence and
track with torpedoes....“ W.L.”: We would not think that
your sketch was like Jim Love, the hunter, to look at it: no
one else will have a chance of looking at it much,,...
“ J.D.H.”: “Rev. Sam. Jones’” sermons have been re-
printed in part by almost every bush newspaper in Australia.
....“ Bathurst Selector We can’t say whether it would be
“right” to offer a member of Parliament money, but it
would not be “safe” for he would be certain to take it....
“ Lismore Mr. Hogan is a distinguished member. His dis-
tinction arises from the fact that he has never been accused
of participating in any political swindle. Come to think of
it, he has never been accused of possessing any political
ability, either, but that fact is no distinction. Nearly all of
them are constructed in that manner... .“Nyngan Reptile”:
Your only way is to run a paper of your own. No paper that
we have ever seen or heard of would think of printing
what you have sent here... Tramway”: You want to know
how long the tram has been running in Sydney. Ever since
it first started, and that is just so much too long “ Organ-
isation pf the Universe Our space is certainly not a
vacuum.' MS. on application....“ Railway Board”:
You are ,a funny fellow with a decided genius for
criminal lilcfej.. You say Mr. Wright made, the railways pay
under his management, but forget to say whom or what....
“ 0.8.5.” : Don’t know, but could possibly find 0ut....“ Her-
bert West” (address uncertain): The picture on the cover of
The Bulletin is not, as you absurdly supposed, meant for
Sir ’Enery in his shirt looking for a burglar, with a speckled
hen roosting on a whisky cask in the background. It is
Diogenes looking for an honest man, and we put him
there because we thought Australia was a real good
place for him to hunt round “J. Grace”: He is
the sort of curate who tells his beloved brethwen that “ Ba-
wabbathwath a wobbah.”....“ P. Marsland” : Not for that
reason alone. On political grounds we hail with pleasure the
appointment to the N.S.W. Chief Justiceship of Mr. Salo-
mons, who but the other day was sneered at by the Sydney
D.T. for having spoken of “ the Australian Republic.”....
1 C.C.”: The fact that the St. Leonard’s paper calls Parkes’
speech “childish,” only shows that a man isn’t a prophet in
his own country. [Many replies unavoidably held "over.]
An old Hindoo proverb : ‘ ‘ Better sitting
than standing, better lying than sitting, better
asleep than awake, better dead than asleep.”
“ No Christians need apply ” is now a very
common wind-up to advertisements in the Indian
papers. The pious and dogmatic howler is at a
discount, for whenever a mean and dirty swindle
is accomplished it is found that a so-called
“ Christian ”is at the bottom of it. Even the
European residents keep clear of the “ converted”
native, for after a long spell of missionary teach-
ing he absorbs only one idea —that of repentance,
and as he steals all day and then repents when he
has spent the proceeds of his thieving, he is too
costly to be endured.


Thus the eminent Mr. Bierce, of the S. F.
Wasp, on Frank Cowan, the Charcoal Poet:—-
“Mr. Frank Cowan of Greensburg, member of a
dozen learned societies of which nobody has ever
heard and author of a dozen books which nobody
has ever read, sends us his thirteenth, entitled
Australia: a Charcoal Sketch. It is “Poetry”
and Frank is a bird of a poet. If Walt Whitman
had never lived Frank would have been one of the
most original birds ; oven as it is, he is no slouch,
and when he spanks his lyre there is troub'e.
Get onto this ’ere :
I eee and sing
Australia !
Tile Austral World;
The World beneath the Cross, the Ooalsack and o
Mcgellanic Clouds of Southern Skies ;
The Nethei World
The World below the Pelt,
That is great verse, but Mr. Cowan can do etter
when his mauleys get fairly at work slogging
rebel wires and snatching out great gobs and clots
of music, like the enthusiastic grab-dog diligently
lifting tangles of tendon from the human calf.
F’rexample :
I see and sing
The Seas Surrounding; sweeping swashing gnawing gnash-
ing; coming to and going from; a mighty rave-nous
amceboid m-nster, having in its maw a continental
animalculum; alternately devourini and rejecting it;
eternally dige sting and ejeeting it ; Amoeba paxnpelagic-
Other oxen may have curveted with as airy
grace ; other geese may have buffeted the clouds
with as free a wing ; other donkeys may as sweetly
have trilled the lilting lay; but there is only
one Frank Cowan, and when ho executes lus
vernal gambol, springs into the purple empyrean
and signifies his views, the ensuement is remember-
slnic! He's a harp-whacker from the Dim Re -
mote.”
FATHER KILEY’S VERDICT.
Ya®s, N.S.W., July 29, 1885.—I have used War-
ner’s safe remedies and find them really good. I
have given some of them to another party, who
has pronounced them to be excellent.—Rev.
KILEY, Catholic Clergyman.
A VETERAN SPEAKS.
Glebe, Lyndhurst St. (Sydney), N.S.W.,
March 20, 1886. —This is to certify that I have
been suffering for the past ten years with liver
and kidney disease, and have been attended by
several medical men of Sydney, but always had a
relapse of the same complaint—pains in small o
ray back, cramps in my limbs, and carbuncles on
different parts of my body, cold feet, and final y
became powerless In the left side, which was
di agonised as paralysis. I commenced the use o
Warner’s safe cure, taking in all seven bottle..
The pains have all left me, I can wmrk as well as
ever, and am in better health now than I
been for years. My age is 71 years.— DA'
THOMAS.
A LIFE SAVED.
Mr. Felix Tomncy, farmer, near Towootnba,
Queensland, says 1 am 10 years of age, and to
two years have been ill, caused by stoppage or
water. The only means of relief was forcing
gutta percha wire, which I had to do daij-
Nine months ago I heard of the wonders wr ® u f t j e
by Warnor’s safe cure, and purchased a
from' W. H. Noble, chemist, Towoomba,
gave me instant relief. I continued until t
battles of the safe cure were taken with the 3
pills. I have had to resort to the use of the w
only once in three months. Warner’s safe c
has saved me m'y life.—FELIX TOMNEY.
ness: D. A. Johnstone.
The Referee
Unruly jockeys and consequently indif-
ferent starts at the Canterbury Park meeting on
Saturday last. Leichhardt at 2to 1 was looked
upon as the best thing for the Flying Stakes, but
he was unable to do more than secure a place, the
winner turning up in Paladin ; and Lady Marion,
starting at 6 to 4 on for the Park Stakes, was
obliged to go under to Coroban, who beat her by a
half-length. Lifeboat was backed at 7to 4 for the
Prince of Wales Stakes, but the public were still
amiss, as Murrurundi went to the front at the
home turn and won comfortably from Bonnie Bee.
First Demon was most enquired about at 3 to 1
for the Canterbury Handicap, which resulted in a
win for Leichhardt after a great set-to with the
favourite. Allison won the Disposal Stakes from
the favourite, Sundial; and the 2 to 1 Frolic made
the only winning favourite of the day by carrying
off the Ladies’ Prize.
* *
The victory of the Britishers over the
Eighteen of Parramatta was owing more to
“funk” on the part of the colonials than any
extraordinary excellence displayed by the visitors.
Lohmann, who affects Spofforth in taking a run as
if to deliver a fast and then sends a slow one,
footed the Eighteen completely with common
straight balls which many of the Parramatta men
would have lost had they been from anyone but
Lohmann. On Friday the big match begins, and
should the natives win the toss and Percy
M‘Donnell (about the only man we can depend
on) make a stand, it is just on the cards the
Britishers may come off second best.
* *
Little Murphy was the hero again at
Foley’s Athletic Hall on Saturday night, when
he successfully withstood the well-meant efforts
of the well-performed Mulholland to knock him
out in four rounds. Murphy, as per usual, was
giving away a lump of avoirdupois, but he more
than held his own, delivering some severe punish-
ment to his plucky opponent,
* * *
For solid, comprehensive flunkeyism we
will bet on the Melbourne cyclist. The Melbourne
Bicycle Club is a grovel on two wheeL, and if
Graham Berry stood on his head in a dustbin he
couldn’t do it better. Their advertisement is
adorned with a list of “Distinguished Cyclists.”
whom the ignorant reader is expected to take for
members of the club, and among them may be
found almost every earthly aristocrat from Queen
Victoria down to “Carl Haig, Esq.,” and a man
named Gill, who, we believe, keeps a shop round
the corner. We never saw Her Majesty on a
bicycle, by the bye, but if Mr. Geo. Geddes,
secretary of the club, tells us that she goes fooling
around on top of that machine we presume it
must he true. There are also two empresses,
three princesses, an emperor, two kings, five
princes, a liar, and seven niggers on the list, to-
gether with a multitude of dukes, carls, count-
esses, barons, and a colonial politician who can
hardly put one gouty leg before another.
* *
Abraham Snider, a Melbourne bookie, has
filed his shovel. Cause of insolvency, Trident.
* * *
Lord Carington’s debut on the Australian
turf was the reverse of encouraging. On his
jockey, Whiting, appearing at scale to weigh out
for the Maribrynong Plate, he was fined £2 for
wearing wrong colours ; when he arrived at the
starting post he was fined another £2 for being
late ;3then the filly, Esperance, bolted soon after
the start, and Whiting fell off. You never can
tell “ What may happen to a man in Victoria.”
* * *
“ I never bet on steeplechases,” said a
gentleman at Flemington on the last day of the
races. “ How’s that 1 ” enquired a friend stand-
ing beside him, “Don’t you think they are as fair
as flat races 1 ” “ They may be, for all 1 know,”
was the reply, “ but I hate to have my money in
the air ? ’
* * *
Of the twenty-five races contested at
Flemington, ten were won by Sydney bred horses;
seven, all minor events by Victoria ; six by
Adelaide, and one each by Tasmania and N.Z.
Victoria should feel proud.
* * *
Certain figures in connection with the fifth
Australian Eleven are interesting. Giffen, it ap-
pears, gained most of his glory in minor matches.
For the whole tour he headed the list both in
bowling and batting departments. But for the
ten principal or “ representative ” matches the
South Australian comes out fifth among the bats-
men and fourth as a bowler. Jones averaged 15
runs more per innings and Spofforth averaged 10
runs less per wicket. A comparison with the
Englishmen’s figures is very saddening. In bat-
ting (representative matches) three Englishmen
had a much better record than Jones, while four
others were in front of Jarvis, the s?cond on the
Australian list. In bowling, no less than seven of
them surpassed Spofforth’s average, though only
four out of the seven were fairly put to the tost.
Now that the season is over, it is amusing to read
remarks about the improved standard of English
professional play, & c. The Bulletin called at-
tention to all that many months ago without
waiting for results.
♦ * *
Trident’s victory over Trenton in the
Canterbury Plate has been considerably over-
estimated by most of the sporting papers. Even
allowing that the New Zealander was at his best,
it is absurd to assume that the 2st. 31bs. he gave
away is a fair allowance frem a five-year-old to a
three-year-old in November. It is beyond the
bounds of probability that Trident will ever be
more than a 211 b. better horse than he was on
Saturday week. At that rate, Trenton had
exactly 101 b. the worsit of the weight—no small
matter over a three-mile course. Furthermore, it
is pretty certain that Mr. Cooper’s handsome
champion was a little bit above himself in con-
dition, and taking one consideration with another,
we cannot see that Trident’s last victory rehabili-
tates the reputation so seriously shaken in the
Derby and damaged in tho Cup.
* * *
The funniest thing at the late Flemington
meeting was Joe Thompson on the Britisher v.
Bravo objection, te the Y.R.C. Handicap. Minus
hat and coat Joseph rushed about the Stewards’
Stand explaining the opinions of the Ring in this
delicate matter. His remarks, when summed
up cynically, amounted to the contention that, as
Bravo was almost a skinner, and Britisher had been
backed for big money, Bravo had necessarily won
the stakes “fair and honest.” As it happened,
the winner’s case was a real good one, and Joseph’s
picturesque representations were not needed. Some
jubilation was expressed at the discom film c of
the Ballarat division by people who noted the
“unfancicd” Britisher’s indifferent running for
the Veteran Stakes of two days previous.
* * *
In default of better biz., Hanlan seems to
have been stroking a four-oar crew to victory in
some minor regatta on the Thames.
* * *
Speaking of the Y.B.C. Steeplechase, an
Age critic says ; “ Judging from the tired form of
the performers on Saturday, only two finishing
out of a fair field of starters, any horse perform-
ing at Flemington would be ironed out before he
had accomplished two-thirds of the Grand National
Steeplechase at Liverpool.” This is amusing
when contrasted with some recently-published
notes on Australian and English races over timber,
by “Pendragon” of the Referee. Pen. points
out what everyone who has followed the sport in
hath countries knew, viz., that the Australian
chaser gallops over a three mile course, while his
English brother potters along over four. The con-
ditions under which the horses of either country
take their j umps are entirely different. English
and Irish houses at Liverpool are treated more
tenderly than are ours at Rand wick or Fleming .
ton. Spills are far less frequent, and fata acci-
dents rare in comparison. Without deprec Ring
the actual capabilities of the old-country cattle,
2?^
liliy
I Ji7)^ecu!)ious' 'Pctrfv-
I UTorcL'/PZ©Vly Co&i a
J 'lTt&fZ
the fact remains that they are not trained to do er
die in the present Australian fashion, and it is our
opinion—inverting the Age criticism -that any
horse performing at Liverpool would be on its
back, or plodding along half a mile in the rear,
before it had accomplished two thirds of a Grand
National Steeplechase at Flemington. It is well
for the Englishmen that they didn’t allow Dutch-
man to run when he was taken “home” by Mickey
Moran,
* * *
Writes “Gadfly” in an English paper -
‘ ‘ The Australian cricketers, I fancy, have lost
their virtue as a speculation, or at least a great
deal of it. Any team that the Surrey club can
beat in one innings are not potent factors as pro-
ducers of gate-money. Several of my contem-
poraries are saying that Mr. Scott's team are
demoralised. Not a bit of it. They have lost
many matches this season, and firstly because
English cricketers have got familiar with Aus-
tralian howling, but more especially by reason of
the confidence with which our men now meet
them. It seems to me that until this year English
cricketers faced the bowling of the Colonists in
fear and trembling; now the tables are turned,
and the confidence that our men have gained the
Australians have apparently lest. 1 hope that
the ‘ blue funk,’ which until lately laid our best
men hors dc combat, is a malady which will not
overtake them again. lam inclined to think the
spell is broken, and that any future eleven of
colonial cricketers, however good they may bo,
are not destined to have the uninterrupted run of
luck that was enjoyed by the first and second
teams that made experiments hero. As I say
however, now that the Australians have been
found out to he anything but invincible, their
potency as an attraction has become sensibly
weakened.”
* * *
Mr. W. J. Haramersley, for many years
sporting editor of the Australasian, died last
week in Melbourne from the bursting of a cerebral
blood-vessel. Mr. Hammersley had long been ill,
and since vacating the seat in which he had
worked so long and so well, he had, we grieve to
say, trodden in thorny paths.
TIPS FOR WAGGA RACES.
(FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
Maiden Plate, mile and a quarter : Yule Cake,
Metallurgist, Titus.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, five furlongs : Falka, St.
Michael, Patience.
Wagga Gold Cup, two miles : Silver King, To-
ward, Ben Bolt.
Selling race, six furlongs : Allander, Saxon,
Koxana
Frst Hurdle Race, two miles : Laurel, Society,
Omadhaun.
Wagga Derby, mile and a half : Tamarisk, In-
vermay.
Second Hurdle Race, two miles, Society, lona,
Mosstrooper.
Grand-stand Handicap, six furlongs : Yule
Cake, Toward, Paladin.
Selling Plate, one mile : Genoe, Ariel, Whisper.
Ladies’ Bracelet, one mile : Astroea, Invermay,
Kildare.
Mares’ Produce Stakes, six furlongs : Scarlet
and Black, Joyful, Perfection.
Steeplechase : Letitia, Havelock, Sir Henry.
Mr. Edward John Bateman.
Mr. Bateman, whose portrait appears on another
page, has been connected with the Ballarat
Courier as editor and part proprietor since its
first appearance in 1867. Under his conduct the
Courier was a success from tho start, and is now
about the best provincial newspaper property in
Australia, claiming a daily circulation of 8000
copies. In politics tho Courier has always taken
the Liberal side, and achieved good work in the
popular cause. Mr. Bateman has also wielded a
strong personal influence in political and social
affair ■, and much credit is generally conceded to
him for the part he took in bringing the fierce
struggle of 1884-5 between masters and men
in the bootmaking trade to a satisfactory con
elusion. He has been engaged in jin - nalism
since 1859, when, at the age of 27, hejoii.edthe
Maryborough andDunolly Advertiser edited
by Mr. (now Sir) Julius Vogel, as reporter ; from
that journal he passed to successive editorships on
provincial papers until he attained to his present
position. Mr. Bateman was horn in London in
1832, and came to Victoria in 1852. His oldest
son, Mr. Edward George Bateman, is now practis-
ing as a barrister in Sydney.
The meeting at Murrumburrah (N. S. AV.),
convened to petition for a dissolution, carried th.s
main resolution by 19 votes to 1. It was a Boyne
Water affair entirely, and the Rev. Thomas Wat-
son, a noted Orangeman, took a leading part
therein. One speaker asserted that a member
of a former Ministry whom he named had made
over £BO,OOO out of his office. This meeting was,
of course, another utterance by the “ voice of the
country.”
When Murderer Caffrey and his two fel-
low prisoners arrived at Auckland the»e was a
ghastly struggle among the lawyers, who all
wanted to conduct the defence —not gratis,
though. About a score of dryasdust cormorants
rushed the criminals like so many jackals scramb-
ling over the carcase of a dead camel, and there
was cursing among those who did not get the job.
One enterprising hawk is even hanging on to the
old woman whose husband was murdered, and
though she is tough and aged he has nearly suc-
ceeded in convincing her that unless she is repre-
sented by her own lawyer at the trial she may get
into some kind of trouble.
Mr. A. G. Taylor, in censuring the N.S.W.
Government for doing, as he asserts, an illegal
act by forbidding Civil servants to become aider-
men, bases his contention upon tho fact that the
Municipalities Act permits such persons to be so
elected. This is overstraining the point. The
regulations do not incapacitate any officer from
election, they merely order that he shall not
accept or continue to hold office. It would have
been better if these regulations had been issued
during session, hut it is manifestly absurd to
suppose that an Act of Parliament is required to
declare that Civil servants shall not take more
than half an hour for lunch, or accept testimonials
without written permission.
THIS
WICKED
WORLD
The German steamers take steerage pas-
sengers from Sydney to Melbourne for 10s. each
Rev. J. A. Nolan, Brisbane, told the registrar
that he had fdrgotten to report a marriage He waa
fined £lO. Honesty is its ownrewa- d “ How it
feels to commit suicide ” is the heading of an amor -
phous article in the Melbourne Herald, it,
can’t feel much worse than having to read the
article Kimberley “ goldfield,” say three dig-
gers j ust returned, is essentially a storekeepers-’
rush. On the way down they met men hollow-
eyed and half-starved, limping painfully along in
heavyjwamps, and many were dying like dogs,
Advertisement from Melbourne paper:--
“ Suddenly disappeared from Freemason’s Hall,
Saturday night, young lady with all her clothes.”
The Tasmania mine’s last crushing yielded
20230 z gold from 1520 tons quartz. The company
have now declared in 96 dividends a total profit
of £127,500 “ Will it be believed,” says Figaro,
“that when the Empress Eugenie visited the
Colonial Exhibition she was permitted to pay her
shilling with the crowd?” A Parramatta
baker has been fined £152 ss. for selling short-
weight bread £BOO worth of colonial wine was
retailed at the Colonial and Indian Exhibition
Magnificent total! Almost equal to a week's
takings over a Sydney bar During last month
there were 23 lying-in cases at Sydney Benevolent
Asylum, and only 17 of the children were illegiti-
mate.
* *
An Englishman was lined 10s. at Dublin
for hissing the Tory Viceroy. He had hissed
scores of times, he said, but not in Ireland, which
made all the difference Ball cartridge was
fired by two regiments at a recent Aldershot sham
fight. Tho negligence responsible for this error
is shameful, but the fact that no one was killed is
still more disgraceful Four thousand girls and
women are employed as clerks in the Government
offices at Washington, U.S. “So there now !” has
naturally come to be recognised as an allowable
phrase in official correspondence Last month
tho Bishop of Exeter suddenly remembered that
Lundy Island was a part of his vineyard, and that
he was the husbandman. So he went over and
confirmed the entire population. This was not
done too soon, as the last Bishop who called there
did so in the reign of Henry VIII.


SUNDAY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“ La Maseorie" p. 15
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Aoabemy of Music—Harry Rickards “On Guard”
Tow* Hall, Five Dock— Lynok Family Bell-
ringers 14
“ Under the Gaslight,” at Sydney Royal
Standard, is a rather awkwardly-named drama;
if It wore re-ohristened “ The Siege of Jerusalem,”
or “ The Smashing of Smith,” it would be at least
equally appropriate. The whole action depends
on a hoarse vijlain who weighs 1921b5., and who
tramps through the play, scattering destruction as
he goes, and treading down the sweet flowers of
sentiment with the boots of hob-nailed ruffianism,
while a Ashy grin shines out from beneath his
patchy yellow skull. In the first act he obtrudes
his horrid leer in a New Year’s party, and when a
sapless lover threatens to throw him out he bobs
his streaky old scalp in his face as if by way of
saying, “Inspect that!” The sapless youth in-
spects it and backs out. This visit brings an
avalanche ®f trouble down on the pretty heroine,
Laura Courtland, and in the second act we find
her living in lodgings with Peachblossom, a
smart though smudgy girl, for her only com-
panion. This girl is chased round the
room by a fat old woman with a huge in-
flamsd countenance, who h ts he: oh the head
with a shoe, and a demoniac struggle ensues. The
young lady also pounds a hawker, and being
assailed once more by the old woman—who has
come hack again in a bruised state—aided by our
former Mend, the 1921 b. of damp rags, jaw, and
ferocity, she performs prodigies of valour in
defence of her hapless mistress. With her hair
flying and the atmosphere full of shrieks, she
fights iu the air, hitting with her two feet, her
fists, and her head all at once, and smiting the old
woman in five distinct places simultaneously,
until the arrival of Joe Snorkey finally turns the
tide of hatfie and leaves the defeated villain
weeping on a dish-clout.
Act ll[ shows a scene on Blackfrlars
Bridge, whore the homeless poor sleep in cuch
tight quarters that one is forced to admonish his
companion, exclaiming : “I say, you take your
toe out of my ear, will you ! ” Here the fighting
Peachblossom addresses her tyrant as “Old Muck,”
which seems very appropriate, and Snorkey again
gives battle to his enemy. He is getting rather
the worst of it, for the odds are heavy, but at the
crisis of the scrimmage 20 individuals, who de-
scribe themselves vaguely as ‘ ‘ chiokaleary
blokes ” pile themselves on top of the
1921 b. man and make him wish he had
never been born. The “ chiokalearies ” form a
sort of pyramid in this scone, each one hitting the
one below him, while the villain at the bottom of
the heap is squelched by their weight and ferocity,
la the last act Laura Courtland is locked up in a
railway goods shed, and Snorkey is tied across the
Hue just as a train is coming, hut with a scream
and a tomahawk the young lady hews her way
out in timo to save him. and a final desperate rally
of the “chickaleaiy blokes” aided by a police-
nnu, a pickpocket, and a porter, wipes the wicktd
characters off the face of the earth.
* * *
Miss Dumpier is an admirable Laura Court-
Hud. There is not very much of the part, and it is
leas obtrusive than most of those ia which she has
appeared of late, but she plays it with feeling and
Quiet dignity and makes the best of it. Miss
Russell as Peachblossom is a daisy at fighting,
though we heard one individual say she was a
whale, so that opinions may be said to differ. Mr.
Lampier, of course, appeared as Snorkey, for
whenever it is necessary that a battered hero
with one arm, two shaky legs, and no stomach
worth swearing by should fight on behalf of inno-
cence against tremendous odds, Alfred is always
about. Mr. Stoncham, who invariably plays the
ruffian, makes Byke amusing by the hollow roar
H which he conduces the conversation. The rest
the characters are tolerably good, excepting
tee railway porter. Our well of English undefined
gives out when we try to describe him.
MISS NELLIE STEWART.
fter^ 88 Stewart, when she quits Syd-
w W plant a gloom in our breast that even
jjis n ®ar presence of our aunt cannot entirely
Sl Pate, She is going to England to enrol her-
self as a pupil of the great Randegger, and has
been urged to do so by Alfred Cellier, who declares
her to be a “ diamond.” She is to be introduced
to the great Sir Arthur Sullivan, and is to career
about promiscuously among the London talent.
It may not be generally known that Miss Stewart’s
mother (Mrs. Guerin) was the first English prima
donna to appear on the Australian stage. Miss
Stewart is sorry to leave her native land, and is
only anxious to go, in order to return more pro-
ficient, “because then,” as she avers in silvery
tones, “my native land will be prouder of me.”
W *7r •TV'
“ Louis XL,” which was played at Sydney
Royal Standard last Friday, was well received.
In this piece the King has the play almost all to
himself, for the monarch’s unhealthy soul fills the
bill, and his monumental villainy looms up and
obscures all the smaller scoundrels by whom he is
surrounded. After Mr. Dampier’s striking success
as Mephistopheles, he could hardly fail to give a
good rendering of this part, for Louis is the Devil
in person, minus all his grandeur, and plus a
whole deluge of crawling wretchedness, mean-
ness, lying, and contemptible hypocrisy—phrase
borrowed from David Buchanan’s speeches—such
as no respectable Devil would be guilty of. The
difference between the two is that the Prince of
Darkness is a gentleman, though a grim and
saturnine one, and the King was not and never
could have been. The part was played in an ex-
cellent manner throughout, and then on Saturday
Louis degenerated into Snorkey, and the pit
seemed to like the one quite as well as the other.
Tv’ *7r "Tv* "vr
There is nothing particularly new to bo
said about the Faust Family, who are now closing
their season at Sydney Gaiety. They have fur-
nished a lot of innocent amusement, and though
the public have not rushed to raee them with the
ardour of an “ Escaped Nun ” rushing a denomi-
national bun-fight, they have done pretty good
business during their stay. May their shadows,
especially that of little Daisy, never grow less.
#* # #
On Saturday next Mr. W. E. Sheridan
and Miss Louise Davenport open at Sydney Gaiety
in “ King Lear,” when anyone who doesn’t think
there is enough tragedy in real life will have a
chance to see some more and enjoy a little quiet
misery.
## # *
“ La Mascotte” has only partially justified
its name at Sydney Theatre Royal, but this is
probably more because the popular appetite for
K
T Hii K C
*l*
dfd
comic opera has been satisfied than by reason of
any defects in the present show. Miss Nellie
Stewart’s benefit is going to be an enormous affair
and already two tenders have been received by the
management from persons who offer untold wealth
for a seat on the big chandelier. This is as it
should bo. Miss Nellie Stewart is the idol of all
who adore youth, reverence talent, and admire
beauty. And she was born at Sydney, the birth-
place of so many towering geniuses, including the
present writer, whose genius, it maybe remarked,
is chiefly shown in his towering in places whore
his creditors are not.
* * *
Tho Majeronis take up the running at this
theatre on Saturday, 20th, with “Queen Eliza'
beth,” a drama which had as long a run in Mel-
bourne Bijou, as that well-known farce “Politics,”
had last session in Macquarie-street. “Queen
Elizabeth ” was written by an Irishman called
Giacommetti, whose name is probably the Italian
translation of Paddy O'Rourke. Jack O’Metti
(that’s how the name is pronounced) was a man of
groat knowledge and research, and has incorpor-
ated in his play some facts concerning Elizabeth
which history quite omitted to record, but on the
affidavit of Joe Brown, the Signor’s manager—
who says he was there at the time —we are
assured that J'aok’s version is absolutely correct.
The same Mr. Brown, whose modesty and truthful-
ness, we may remark, are the envy of the profes-
sion, assures us that the Majeronis exhibit won-
derful talent throughout the drama. Which fact
we knew before, and therefore do not hesitate to
believe Mr. Brown —for the first time since wc
made his acquaintance.
it * * *
'TV' '/V' TV- "TV-
Sydney promenade concerts seem to be
growing in popular favour, the most recent of
them being attended by nearly double as many
persons in the reserved seats as there were per-
formers on the stage. Fashion does not conde-
scend to patronise the show much, for the very
sufficient reason that admittance has to be paid
for, but the maiority of those who do attend ap-
pear to be really gratified with “ the good things
provided ” (phrase originated in the Ark.) Miss
Frances Saville, who went on at a moment’s
notice on Saturday last, plucked fresh leaves of
the common or garden laurel with which to adorn
her classic brow, and the massive Gainor, M. M.
Henri Kowalski, and Leon Caron were similarly
successful. Mr. Brewer asked Maud to come
into the garden, but from the style in which the
invite was given we don’t think Maud went. An
autocratwithaclub is much required to judiciously
kill loquacious promenaders who persist in keeping
their tongues and feet moving during the most
interesting music. The always hungry and per-
petually thirsty habitues are provided for by Com-
pagnoni’s beauteousest attendants.
ROCCO'S HOMAGE—A BAD SHOT FOR THE
ROYAL HAND. —“La Mascotte.”
“ Breaking the Ice,” which was played at
Sydney Opera House on Monday night “for the
first time in Australia,” is the sort of comedietta
that should be tied to a red-hot flat-iron and
dropped into the rolling sea. It has run for two
years in London by virtue of its dire stupidity,
and if it were improved by the introduction of a
bull-pup chewing up a bonnet, or something of a
similar light and airy character, it might run for
two years more. It is Ailed entirely with the
troubles brought on a young man—who says in
passing that his aunt has gone to sheol —through
being snowed up in an inn, where he amuses him-
self by standing on a chair and worshipping his
own glorious legs as reflected in a pier-glass. We
studied the legs ourselves through a marine glass,
and a more ordinary set of shanks it was never
our lot to gaze upon. They were represented by
Mr. Richard Stewart, and under his fostering care
they kicked a lot of furniture and made a disgust-
ing row. Miss Alice Deorwyn was better, though
she also was below her usual mark, and even re-
garded as a piece to fill in the interval between
two beers, “Breaking the Ice” was a decided
failure.
* * *
“Pygmalion and Galatea ” followed, with
Miss Essie Jenyns as the animated statue, and in
this character she scored another success. Even
her excellent representation of Parthenia was in-
ferior to her rendering of this character, her
beautiful pose as the statue, her graceful acting,
and winning innocence being greeted with almost
ceaseless applause. In her dialogue with Chryscs
the audience took to expressing their approval
after every sentence, which made the progress of
the second act rather slow, and the recalls each
time the curtain went down were noisy and en-
thusiastic, Mr. Holloway took the part of Pyg-
wbatsisname, and from the moment that he
smiled his welcome to Galatea he made things
gee. We have seen many kinds of smile ; one of
them, for instance, was on the face of a horse that
had been dead three weeks, and another had
seemingly been gashed out with a tomahawk on
the countenance of a Birmingham god which was
built for the African trade, but Pygmalion’s
smile was like none of these. He was lacking
somewhat in expression, but when he was happy
he opened his eyes and kept his mouth shut, and
when he was struck with palsied horror he closed
his eyes and opened his mouth, shaping it like
what Parkes would term a capital “ H’O.” More-
over, he stumped about with a huge Greek stump
that was death on any creeping insect that might
come in his way. Mr. Chas. Holloway was excel-
lent as Chrysos, and made a genuine success out
of that greedy, pompous, blotched, and purse-
proud Athenian. Miss Alice Deorwyn was an at-
tractive Cynisca, though now and then she struck
some rather strange attitudes; and Miss Arden
made a good Daphne, that female becoming in
her hands a spiteful, vixenish, grampus-like crea-
ture, who was intensely amusing. Lastly, Mr.
Norman hove a jackass rabbit into the piece, and
said it was a fawn. We afterwards heard with
relief that it was cooking by the kitchen fire, and
it was certainly time it was cooked.
#A/, AA. A/,
W W -TV*
The ambition of Manly( IST. S. W.) is bounded on
one side by the Pacific Ocean and on the other by the
P.O.’s modioeval castle. Between these extremes
Ailing up is required, and so it is going in for an
“ aquarium,” which is to fa r c the highly-
imposing Corso. The aquarium aforesaid is
to be lit with the electric light. Every-
thing is to be done to make the place at-
tractive. Seals are being procured from Victoria,
and many slimy monsters are to be scooped out of
their native haunts and put into glass-cases. The
fish-tanks are to he lit up at night by incandescent
lights put among the rocks, so that we will be
able to see what a Ash does when it wants to go
to slesp, and finds the light in its eyes. The
whole arrangements strike us as being altogether
against the fish, who will have a bad time until
someone cats them. Then probably someone else
will have a bad time.
At- AL
■7V* *7v* Tv*
Another attempt will be made to suppress
Sunday entertainments in Melbourne. Some of
the church collections show a distinct falling off,
and the clerical party is awaking to the serious-
ness of the position. Satan is scooping in the
willing shillings at the pay boxes, while “ the
Board” is only getting the begrudged threepences
when the plate comes round, Mr. Joe Symes is
considering the advisability of squaring his op-
ponents with a percentage of the spoil.
THE LOVERS’ PARTING.
in “La Mascotte.”
Bright’s the Dawn before the Dark. That
which goeth up like a Rocket oft descendeth like
a Stick. The horse which gets a splendid start
frequently runs out at the first turn. All of
which proverbs serve to remind us that trouble
has already come to the new Alexandra Theatre,
Melbourne. It opened with a blaze of triumph on
October 1. Miss Julia Sydney gave up the mana-
gerial ghost on November 6. This early dissolu-
tion was brought about by bad plays aggravated
by a feeble company. Dr. Phil. Day was called in
temporarily to see what he could do for the sick
patients, but his skill availed not. A profusion
of “passes” in the five-shilling seats procured
applause which seemed to mock at the state of the
exchequer. It was as a tinkling cymbal, but not
as sounding brass. After le roi (Captain de
Burgh) was mart, his depressed subjects made a
patriotic attempt to establish a Commonwealth
with Mr. George Leopold as Protector. The
Commonwealth collapsed on the night of Novem-
ber 11 (this is getting quite historical), and after
that the band didn’t play. Last week’s ads. said
that Messrs. Keogh and Hanson were to try their
luck at the house on Monday (15th), with Miss
Marian Willis, popular prices, and a thrilling
drammer called “Mad.” That title is suggestive.
AL. AA.
*Jr Tr ‘Tv* *}r
A new comedy called “ Our Regiment ”
has replaced “Turned Up” at Melbourne Opera
House. This is a weak trifle, well-played and
generously mounted. The male characters are
two milingtary orficers, a skittish curate, and a
pair of heavy uncles. One nunky hates soldiers
like pizon, the other nunky holds curates in like
regard. Excellent judges, both of them. There
are three nice girls who fling themselves at the
heads of the fellahs, and a giddy old chick of an
aunt who encourages them in their delicious
wickedness. Three acts of flirtation and finesse
are followed by the merry ring of marriage-bells
after the curtain falls. The acting of the company
is sprightlier than the piece itself. Miss Florence
Trevelyn appears to be climbing the light comedy
ladder of fame two rungs at a times. She has
manifestly benefited by her trip to England. Miss
Boueicault’s eyes tell a love-story far more co-
herently than a shilling novelette. Messrs.
Brough, Boucicault, Harwood, Royce, and Ever
ard are all as good as they ought to be. Never
theless. “Our Regiment” isn’t likely to enjoy a
six weeks’ march. All talk and no incident makes
it the dull bantling of a bright brain. The author
is a Mr. H. Hamilton, who, according to all
accounts, has just knocked ’em in London with a
comedy called “Harvest.”
WWW
The “ Mikado’s ” own particular troupe of
jugglers and acrobats has emigrated to the
Japanese Village in Melbourne. In celebration
of this joyful event, the boss of the village has re-
duced the admission fee to the nimble shilling,
and crowded thoroughfares have resulted. Mr.
Ala, who sends the old ladies into ’sterics by flying
up to the roof and then trying to commit suicide
in a net is now hard at work on a new horror.
A harmless-looking little infernal machine will
catapult him (D.V.) the whole length of the vil-
lage. When the Russians come, Ala will probably
be used as a torpedo.
H. BENHAM AS ROCCO.
In “ La Mascotte."
“Dorothy,” the new opera by Messrs. C. B.
Stephenson and Alfred Cellier, is a success at
London Gaiety, in spite of the fact that the plot
is undeniably weak, and the lyrics decidedly
washy. For these defects Mr. Stephenson is an-
swerable. Of the music in the opera Modern
Society writes:
“Mr. Alfred Cellier’s share of the labour partakes of the
nature of inspiration Gifted with a tuneful soul, he has
generously poured it forth in melody that woos the ear pleas-
antly. The orchestration and concerted music bear the mark
of the scholarly musician, and the solos are unfailingly de-
Ugh l ful to the lißtener.
Mr. Cellier is thus adding to his fame at both
ends of the world. “Dorothy” is earning ap-
plause in England, while his own efforts as con-
ductor of W. G. and M.’s Comic Opera company
add to his reputation in Australia.
AL. AA, AA,
w w 'lr w
Over the piano in a certain Californian
saloon is posted a notice requesting gentlemen not
to shoot the pianist, “because he is doing his
best.” For similar reasons we forbear this week
to notice the Rickards Company, who are still
playing “On Guard” at Sydney Academy of
Music.
AA. AA.
'A* "Tv- 'TV* 'A'
The “ Henry Irving ” is a new brand of
champagne which goes well in New York. It is
described as a dry wine, clean on the palate, but
full of mannerism. Somewhat of an acquired
taste, in fact The Lynch Bellringers show at
Five Dock and Botany on Thursday and Friday,
and then go North for a lengthy tour. They left
just a little money in the North after their last
visit, and are now going to make a clean sweep of
all the specie in that part of the country Mr.
Fisher, the actor, who has been playing Ko-Ko
ever since “ Mikado ” first came out, is reported
to have gone mad, the cause being his continuance
in the part. In Australia, it is generally the
audience, not the actor, who get mad An
Italian Opera Company is reported as on its way
to Australia. The company has been collected by-
Mr. Martin Simonsen, and from the list of names
it would seem that he has been able to secure
some valuable artists, They are not coming too
soon,


Pepper
And
Salt
The moderator of the Victorian Presby-
terian Assembly, Rev. D. S, M'Eachran, has
retired to make way for another. His farewell
sermon was preached from the text, “He that
winneth souls is wise.” This is how the Moderator
—a word charged with infinite sarcasm as applied
to him—proposed that souls should be won :
“ They (ministers) must also warn men of the
torments of an eternal hell. . . He had heard
it said that there was as much Gospel preached in
Scotland as would save a world of sin-sick souls,
but where was the preaching fitted to save sin-
siek souls unless these souls were made to feel
that they were exposed to the Wrath of Eternity ?”
We know that Mr. M'Eachran will feel obliged
to us for throwing this advice of his into the
following rough rhymes for the benefit of young
ministers. So : •
History is apparently not a strong point in
Victorian schools. Inspector Taylor, who officiates
in that colony, complains in his report that
many children have hardly an idea who Queen
Victoria is, and that when-he asked “What the
Prince of Wales would be when the Queen died,”
the unanimous answer was, “Please, sir, an
orphan.” We calculate this idea is a good way
out. Wales won’t be an orphan, for the grateful
country will be a father to him and lead him into
green pastures —most uncommonly green ones,
too, and he will feed there till he has eaten them
bare.
*
n
“Person took silk umbrella from 10 o’clock
mass, Hotham Chapel. Left old one. Return.”
This advertisement appeared in the Melbourne
Age last week, and is another evidence of the un-
dying faith there is in human nature where lost
umbrellas are concerned. People will doubt their
dearest friends, lose trust in their own flesh and
blood, and laugh with sceptical scorn at the les-
sons of piety taught them at their mother’s knee,
but they will never cease to believe that the
party who took their new umbrella and left a
broken-ribbed relic in its place has only to be re-
minded of the fact through the newspapers to
hasten joyously around with the gamp as
soon as he sees the advertisement. Ah well, it is
an amiable delusion after all. One must believe
in something or die. But: —
Till the vows of love undying
After marriage last a year,
Till young widows ne’er cease crying 1
O’er their late “departed dear
Till the snow falls in October,
Till the earth is cleared of crime,
Till this writer can keep sober,
For a fortnight at a time —
Till no M.L.A.’s found feath’rin’
His nest with the public store,
This departed gamp, dear brethren,
Will return —ah, nevermore !
* * *
Two rather disagreeable ’ mistakes have
been made lately—one in Melbourne, the other in
Adelaide. In the latter place a man made the
mistake of drinking nitric acid for whisky; in the
former another erroneously swallowed spirits of
salts for gin. Both are now in the mansions of
the blest. Let us suggest a simple epitaph for
each of them and begin with the Melbourne
man :
Soul gone to glory, sirs,
Body in vaults.
So ends his story, sirs—
Spirits of Salts.
If he had stuck to beer
His remains woul>l not be here.
Now for the Adelaide miscalculate!':—
The corpse our friend was
Who lies here placid,
His latter end was
Nitric acid.
He had no time in a life of toil,
To distinguish the same from fusel-oil.
* * *
Still another prophet has arised in pro-
phet-haunted N.Z. The retirement of Te Whiti
into the solemn and lonely jug left a vacancy for
an active and intelligent young man who could
see visions, and the individual who has taken the
billet seems to fill the bill. He is a white man—
name unknown, but he may be alluded to as
Jones without outraging the probabilities in any
way. His first prophecy is now to hand, and
from it we learn that a fearful convulsion is
shortly to take place, which will blow New Zca-
land, with all its debts and difficulties, right off
the map of the Pacific. Some quiet night when
all is calm, a crater 100 miles long by 40 broad
will open in the North Island and start that terri-
tory into the upper air ; Sir Julius Vogel, singed,
screeching, and adorned with a tail like a comet
will go spinning aloft, his gouty leg ballasting
him in a perpendicular posture, his deficit in one
pocket and the missing Treasury bonds in the
other ; Mr. Ballance, too, will be there, making a
bee-line for Jhe dog-star, his hair on fire and a
Bible under his arm ; while Sir Robert Stout, who
believes not in Bibles, will join in that great sul-
phurous whiz, hugging the “Mistakes of Moses”
as he goes, and faintly realising, as he listens to
his colleagues cursing above, that he has some-
where made a mistake compared with which
those of Moses were nowhere. Then, when the
Ministry has reached its perihelion, a downward
rush wall commence, the members of the Cabinet
doing an aerial race with dead horses, dead dogs,
babies, farms, houses, Maories, parsons, churches,
steeples, tables, chairs, cats, civil servants,
lawyers, ash-heaps, and chunks of blazing sul-
phur, and all will go down with a mighty splash
into the boiling waters of the Pacific, which will
roll where N.Z. used to be. This is a really good
prophecy, and we are waiting anxiously for the
event to come off. With such'a prospect as this
,1 RJr-» rrjfggri
miLI'TRAi BAV
W ATSOh S !3AV,' i 'v, ST't»
! o uhV
■msms sir
■jßssre»»st
Mf//
fdfdf
V ,
THE FRENCH PAPER.
SYDNEY SWELL (sol.): “AW! CAN’T READ A WORD—BUT IT LOOKS WELL TO
HAVE IT WITH YOU, DONCHERKNOW.”
ahead it is no wonder that N.Z. securities are just
now rather weak in the market.
* * *
As a good many people are in doubt as to
the cause of the present racket in the New
Hebrides, we rise to explain that it is now all
about a cow. A missionary, according to the
French Commander, slaughtered that head of
cattle, which he had previously annexed, boned,
or otherwise clerically prigged from a native,
and the Gaul adds in his guileless way that “ this
is the third beast killed in that fashion since
December, 1881, and We cannot remain in that
situation ’’—just as if any missionary alive would
be satisfied with three cows in live years. The
pastor, on the other hand, says the cow died out-
side his fence of disease, hunger, and old age, and
as the parties to the quarrel cannot settle the
point among themselves, it is probable the
stomach of the animal will be taken out and sent
to Graham Berry for analysis. Then Berry will
put this stale cow-wreck in a bottle and hump it
proudly down to the Colonial Office as “ another
French outrage,” and the official flunkey will tell
the Secretary of State that “’Ero’s that Horse-
traylian again, and ’e’s carrying some tripe, and
it smells offal,” and then the minister will retreat
by one door just as Berry enters, haloed with
aroma, at the other, and the upshot will be a
telegram informing the listening world that “ Sir
Graharaßerryis still urging on the Colonial Office,”
&c. The rest of the hogwash as per hog-sample
enclosed.
* * *
“ Six clerks in a lawyer’s office in Mel-
bourne backed Ben Bolt to win them £lO,OOO in
the Cup race. Their salaries have been im-
pounded for the next six months by the blithe
bookmaker.”-
They thought to make a gorgeous coup,
And rallied up in force,
They put their “screw” upon a “ screw”
(They’ll call him that, of course),
The backing of Ben Bolt they’ll rue
While grass is green and skies are blue.
For six months these poor chappies (true !)
Must work off a dead horse!
Melbourne Heiiald speaks of a man who
died through drinking a bottle of grog f6r a wager,
as a “ bibliomaniac.” The Her ald never wearies
of trying to establish a connection between erudi-
tion and rum.
When you go and take a “ call ”
Mind this well !
Your parishioners appal—
Give ’em Hell!
Never let ’em take their ease;
Make ’em smell
Sulphur—bring ’em to their knees,
Give ’em Hell!
If they scorn to tolerate
Strange creeds—yell
’Bout a roasting future state !
Give ’em Hell !
If they should refuse to hate
Papists well —
Fire a brimstone broadside straight—
Give ’em Hell!
If the Sawbath they would keep
Joyful, quell
That game, make ’em groan and weep,
Give ’em Hell !
If the offertory you
Wish to swell
(As of course you always do),
Give ’em Hell!
If you want a horse or shay
Or a bell
(Or a case of whisky, say),
Give ’em Kell!
Hell below and roundabout,
Let ’em smell
Hell in season and in out,
Always Hell.
Never fash yourself like Strong,
Damn ’em well
(Probably you’ll not be wrong),
Give ’em Hell!
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Queen sucks peppermint-drops in
church.
Sir James Martin left no will, and had ac-
cumulated no money.
It is stated that in fifteen months Mr.
Darley, Q.C., took over £9OOO in fees at the
Sydney Bar.
The manslaughter prosecution against
Captain Webber, of the Ly-ee-Moon, has been
abandoned by the Crown,
The welcome to the new New South Wales
Chief Justice :—•“ And the Israelites said unto
Moses, ‘ who made you a judge and a ruler over
us V ’
Mr. Edward Griffith (brother of Premier
Griffith), for 25 years of the A.J.S. Bank, Sydney,
goes to Brisbane as manager of the Royal Bank of
Queensland.
The Hay, correspondent of the Sydney
Evening News wires that in his secluded dust-
hole Mr. Salomons —once, by the way, a Ciov/ii
Prosecutor—is regarded as the worst successor to
Sir James Martin who could be found. This state-
ment bears the impress of an old cattle-stealing
grudge.
Mr. Henniker Heaton is going to oppose
Prince Nicholas of Mingrelia for the Bulgarian
throne. The affair is likely to result in a san-
guinary war.
Lord Lonsdale has locked out the miners
at his collieries. He likes that sort of thing.
Only the other day he locked Violet Cameron’s
husband out of her “ private sitting room.” It is
good to be an earl.
The professional income of Mr. Salomons,
Q.C., who is appointed to the N.S.W. Chief
Justiceship, is not less than £7OOO a year. The
Chief Justiceship carries with it a salary of £3500
and a substantial pension on retirement.
The Earl of Lonsdale, who went off with
an actress, and then kicked her husband out when
he came to see his wife, is patron of II livings in
the Church of England. He has for years been a
fast friend of the Prince of Wales, the future
“ Defender of the Faith.”
Sir John Pope Henessey, it is said, is to
be the next Governor of Tasmania. Our friend
Pope is a “perfect whale” at knocking up a row
wherever he goes, and in a short while N.S.W.
ought to be able to import some altogether new
form of shindy from Hobart.
Another of our Soudan heroes in trouble.
Sergeant Major Kennedy, of the Contingent, was
charged at a Melbourne Court with wife desertion,
and ordered to ante-up 12s. per week. The
gallant warrior has come down to selling the
Herald in the streets of his ungrateful country.
Comparisons are odious —very. Edmund
Yates, of the World, draws a parallel between
Lord Lonsdale and his father, to the advantages
of the latter, because, he says, “ He was a gentle-
man, and though he may have had the morals of
a monkey, he did not combine with them the ap-
pearance of an ostkr and the manners of a pig.”
•“ Mr.” Auffray, who sits with his head
against the. door-post * and dry-nurses the baby
while the “Escaped” lady delivers her lecture,
says that he never had such a fearful reception in
any town in the British realms as at Lismore
N.S.W. The Nun has unrolled her cavernous jaws
all over the Empire, but this is the first time she
has had to take the cash-box between her teeth
arid fight her way to the bank with the spoil.
The Evening News, in a washy obituary
notice, carefully sinks every reference f to the
magnificent ability and integrity of the dead Sir
James Martin, in order that it may give its jackass
kick to his memory by merely saying that he was
unjustly prejudiced against the Press. So far as
the News is concerned, we don’t wonder. At any
rate, if Sir James Martin could come back we
could cheerfully spare the Evening News,
Sir James Martin, although if anything an
adherent of the Roman Catholic faith, was buried
by a Protestant clergyman. He had not con-
formed to the usages of the R. C. church in some
respects and therefore they would not bury him.
You would not see any parson of “the most
fashionable church ” chuck away the chance of
burying a Chief Justice, though he had violated
every dogma, and every commandment in the
decalogue.
A banquet was given to celebrate the ac
cession to office of Mr. Cain, the new Mayor of
Melbourne, in the Town Hall last week. The
Governor and over 1000 representative citizens
were present. Humph !
We must have our little joke—
To hear this gives us pain ;
A thousand law-abiding folk
Assembled to raise Cain !
Now we are ready to die.
The cable announces that Vice-Chancellor
Bacon has retired from the English bench. No-
body in Australia has the remotest personal in-
terest in Vice-Chancellor Bacon, but as the ante-
diluvians who represent the Australian Tory
dailies have thought fit to inflict upon us the
above-quoted item of intelligence, we may men-
tion that Bacon is an English judge over 90 years
of age, who, although stone-deaf, partially blind,
and utterly useless, has for years been allowed to
freeze on to his fat billet like a mussel on a pile.
The late Sir James Martin had a whole
some horror of people with long Christian names
or double surnames. As is invariably the custom
at the end of term, a batch of English solicitors
would come up for admission. “I rise your
honors,” Counsel would say, “ to move the admis-
sion of Mr. Plantagenet Ollivier de Montaigne
Montmorenci Brown-Smith.” The C.J., with a
contemptuous smile, would take a long steady look
at the applicant and say in his sharp choppy voice,
“Ah! You have a conveniently short name for
affidavits, Mr, Smith.”
Great lawyers are very human, after all.
The late Judge Fellows, of Melbourne, who often
walked into town instead of driving, was seen one
morning to kick a salmon-tin in front of him, foot-
ball-fashion, for many hundred yards, as he medi-
tatively pursued his way through Albert Park,
And we were told the other day that a gentleman
who called on the late Sir James Martin not long
before his death found the eminent Chief Justice
surrounded by his books and enthusiastically dip-
ping into a big packet of acid-drops.
Caffrey and Penn, of Taylor-slaughtering
notoriety, seem to have enjoyed themselves on
their voyage back to Auckland. Four-handed
euchre was the order of the day, the other two
players being the detective in charge and a man
who had been arrested for forgery. The two mur-
derers generally won. They were kept most of the
time in handcuffs, but the sportive bobby would let
them loose when it was time for the" game to com-
mence, and fix them again afterwards, it being
found that not even a murderer could play do
cently while tied up.
The Timaru poisoning case reminds us of
the Pritchard case, which occurred in Glasgow
some twenty years ago or more. Pritchard, the
chief performer in the little toxicological trouble,
had a magnificent Mosaic beard, of which he was
very proud. The inspector of prisons asked him
one day whether he had any complaints to make
about the treatment he was receiving. “Yes,’
was the emphatic reply. “ Anything the matter
with the food?” “No.” “The bedding?"
“ No.” “ What then ? ” “ They won’t allow me
any pomatum to dress my beard with.”
One of the leading promoters of several
Queensland mining ventures, lately put on the
London market, appears to be Mr. W. Pritchard
Morgan, equally well-known in Queensland as a
successful lawyer and as a mining speculator. So
far, Morgan’s appeals to the noble British capi-
talist seem to have been made on a bona-fide
basis, but it is pretty evident, from the cable-
grams to hand last week, that the well-remem-
bered feud between Mr. Garrick, the Queensland
Agent-General, and the inimitable N.Q. raconteur
will not tend to advance the latter’s interests on
London ’Change.
There are good times ahead for that weedy
lot, the N.S.W. junior bar. The elevation to the
Chief Justiceship of Mr. Salomons, whose practice
is worth at least £7OOO a year, will cause a good
many legal plums to drop into the capacious
pockets of the younger members of the profession.
Then, at least, three other appointments to the
Supreme Court Bench must take place within the
next year or two. Judge Manning and Judge
Faucett will retire absolutely, and Judge Win-
deyer will go to England for a holiday, leaving
his place to be temporarily taken by an extra
Judge; further, it is now pretty plain that the
work of the Courts cannot be got through unless
a sixth judge is appointed.
Joseph Eraser, the rampant Melbourne
phrenologist, in his article in the Evening
Herald on Lord Carington, says—speaking or
the Caringtonian sangre azul :—“ It is the blood
of old Vikings and Norsemen seeking for an outlet
for its superfluous energy in latter-day channels.
It cannot now waste its force in feudal wars and
hand-to-hand encounters in the tournament.
This is splendid. How the other Smiths wi
prance like white elephants mad with pride when
they read it ! The blood of old Vikings and
Norsemen !—feudal wars !—tournaments! Carry
us out and pour rum over us. This is too—to
much.
More trouble for our old friend, the Rev.
John Alexander Dowie. He has been compelled o
withdraw the light of his countenance from tnr
“ office-bearers,” because there was a deficiency
£3B in the Tabernacle accounts. What wi
thumpings, and jumpings, and all-round denunci
tions, the perfervid “ faith healer ” works re
hard for his money, and it is rough on him to
chowsed out of his just dues. The curse of I 0
(many a time and oft have we r heard it) be UP
the heads of them there office bearers.
every individual golden sovereign rise up in ju
ment against them on the awful day. May tn }
but wo are trespassing on Dowie’s preserves.
The proprietors of Mount Morgan (Queens
land) gold-mine, after colossal experiments e.
tending over some months, now estimate
yield for the coming year at 35,0000 z. we
worth £llB,OOO, or in all over £7,600,000 for the -
months. This estimate is based on the qua
of stone already stacked (00,000 tons), an
amounts that their batteries and chi on
engines can get through in the six week daj
quality of the stuff being perfectly umfotn ,


the return of gold calculable beforehand with ap-
proximate certainty. Some of the papers, it may
be remembered, loudly jeered when, a few
months since, The Bulletin announced that the
mine was then yielding over £30,000 weekly.
The Sydney Corporation clique, who
wished to dismiss Mr. Trevor Jones, the City
Engineer, because he for some time failed to de-
tect frauds perpetrated against the Council, has
been worsted, the aldermen having decided, by 13
votes to 8, to reinstate Mr. Jones. The language
used by certain aldermen in speaking of the
engineer was unpardonably brutal. It has, in
fact, long been plain that until there arises among
the Corporation officials a mighty man of muscle,
who has a bad temper and can hit straight from
the shoulder, the professional employees of the
Council will be completely at the mercy of a cer-
tain cowardly person whose bull-like roaring and
constant shaking of his shoulder-of-mutton flst
are a public scandal.
Grace Graham, of the firm of Caffrey,
Penn, and Co., murderers and shipowners, com-
plains bitterly of the Sydney larrikins who stared
at her when she was being driven through the
streets to the lock-up, and votes them a disgrace
to the colony. Surely the tobacco-chewing corn-
stalk hoodlum has reached the very lowest depths
of degradation when even this dubious young
lady can fling her little moral brick at his un-
kempt head. Grace’s name, by the hye, proves to
be Sarah Elizabeth Cleary, which does not
sound nearly so nice as the one we know her by.
Caffrey is also in trouble, for the Auckland papers
are publishing a portrait of him in which he
appears with the head of a horse and a face like a
dishonoured cheque, so that he too has a right to
complain of being hit when he is down.
One in a thousand, plucky, cool, and “ straight”—
Modest in victory, honest in defeat;
For Auld Lang Syne we mourn the jockey’s fate,
His final race is run —and “Archer’s beat.”
The Freeman’s Journal, in an article on
“Sir James Martin’s Religion,” has this: —“It
has been more than once stated that during the
taking of the census of the colony in 1871 Sir
James Martin had his name entered as a ‘ Roman
Catholic,’ his Honor, it is said, making a point of
defining his religion as ‘ Roman ’ Catholic to pre-
vent misconception, for at the time some people
not belonging to our Church claimed to be Catho-
lics, but not ‘ Roman ’ Catholics. All the Martins,
that is to say the sons and daughters of the old
people, were Catholics. The five surviving mem-
bers, namely, two sisters (to whom Sir James was
the kindest and most affectionate of brothers) who
reside at the Blue Mountains, and three brothers,
Messrs. John Martin (Waverley), Thomas Martin,
and George Martin, are all Catholics. The saintly
Archbishop Folding used to say that he was sure
Sir James would, as a reward for his goodness to
his parents and his sisters, receive from God the
grace of a happy death. It is a well-known fact
that in conversation he always spoke of the Catho-
lic Church as ‘ our church,’ or ‘my church.’ ”
The Rev. Allen Webb, a shining light
among the Melbourne Baptists, had his little say
on “ The Melbourne Cup—and what is in it.”
With the spiritual portion of the good gentle-
man’s address we have no fault to find. There is
undoubtedly a fair amount of wickedness in the
Cup. Of the 100,000 or so people who go to
Flemington there are many who have eause to
regret their visit. The Cup may not cause the
same amount of life-long misery as a 1000 Sunday
school picnics with an average attendance of 100
young saints, nevertheless it is open to serious
objections, and the Rev. Allen has a professional
right to point them out. But we must protest
against certain inaccuracies in this sermon. In
the sacred interests of terewth we must explain
to the Rev. Allen’s flock that their shepherd is
hazy on sporting subjects. He says the Melbourne
Cup is “a large vessel made of precious metal
adorned by the art of the goldsmith and engraver.”
It isn’t. The Cup is represented by 2000 sovs. in
hard solid cash. Again, we would exhort the
flock to turn a deaf ear to their shepherd next
time he tells them that the English Derby is run
at Newmarket. He spoilt a splendid personal
reminiscence of a Derby Day suicide by incorrectly
fixing the locality of the big event. Critics of
every class and description are bound to pay care-
ful attention to matters of detail. How the unco
guid would rise in their scorn and gird at an
atheistical lecturer who said that Lake Tiberias
was in Woolloomooloo!
Poor old “ Leo Plaina,” who put a bullet
through his brain the other day in a St. Hilda
hotel, where he was engaged as a waiter, was a
curious character. He believed that he had a
mission to prove that the British nation was
identical with the Lost Ten Tribes. His Hebrew
co-religionists looked coldly on him and gave him
no assistance. Possibly they were afraid that if
he proved his theory, popular opinion would expect
them not to be so ready to put the bailiff in on
their British brethren. This would never do, so
poor old Leo was ignored. And yet he was a man
of rare attainments; a man who in any other
country than this might not have been driven to
keep body and soul together by attending on the
appetites of men not worthy—so far as intellectual
capabilities are concerned —to wipe his shoes; and
when body and soul could no longer agree to keep
together in the midst of such surroundings to be
driven to divorce them with a bullet. He was a
good Sanserif scholar, and skilled in most of the
Oriental languages. His one unfortunate fad —
which really was a very harmless one, after all —
was the only thing that could be brought against
him, but it was enough in a narrow-headed com-
munity like this, where all the sensible men—bar-
ing ourselves—are in the lunatic asylums. It is a
curious coincidence, by the way, that in the paper
containing the account of his suicide there is a re-
port of the suicide of another man who also had
devoted his life to attempting to prove that the
British nation was one of the Ten Tribes. We are
not surprised. The idea is enough to make any
man commit suicide.
At Bendinine Station, near Yass, shearers
Were asked to work for 17s. 6d. per 100, the same
rate being offered all over the district, and then,
as they did all over the district, they struck for
£l. The management, though forced to give the
£l, went to a neighbouring station and engaged
all the hands at their shed, so that the original
strikers, who sacrificed themselves to keep wages
fip, got no work. Which only proves the truth of
the proverb, “United we stand, divided we fall. 1
FREDDIE ARCHER.
“ Archer’s up.” ’Twas proof that bis. was
meant —
A tip that careful backer ne’er could pass ;
No ruse to put the public off the scent
Of second “string" which carried “stable
brass.”
“ Archer wins.” From lusty brazen throats
Oft have we heard the cheery shout ascend,
Then hurried off to draw our quids or notes—
The long-legged “demon” was the punter’s
friend.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S. W. dissolution engine has gone
off the rails through want of steam.
The London Tory papers advocate the
suppression of United Ireland.
“Australia for the white man,” is the
motto of the Anti-Chinese League of Queensland.
The local suspension of the C. D. Act has,
in the opinion of the medical profession and police
of Auckland, N.Z. produced disastrous effects.
“ Wait till Copeland puts up for East
Sydney again— we'll show him!” shriek the
N.S.W. Civil servants, who regard the Minister
of Lands as the author of all their woes.
On dit that in the N.S.W. Cabinet discus-
sion as to the advisableness of lengthening the
Civil Service hours of alleged work, five Ministers
voted for and four against prolongation.
In Tennyson’s last poem he uses the
words “ The dead are not dead but alive.” This is
certainly something new, and, no doubt, it ac-
counts for the big and solid vote of the graveyards
at all South Sydney elections.
The advantages of an established church
are Illustrated in the parish of St, Peter, London,
which contains exactly one resident ratepayer,
and he is not a member of the Church ol England.
The rector receives £2300 a year !
pi I
jj|Wu
%
m
d
WVLIf
A PUZZLER FOR POLITICIANS.
FIRST M.P.: “PERLITICAL ERKONOMY! WHAT’S PERLITICAL ERKONOMY?”
SECOND M.P.: “I DUNNO. IT AIN’T NOTHIN’ TO DO WITH WHAT WE DOES IN
PARLERMENT."
The colonial commandant of the Victorian
Grand Array stated in his speech at the Mayoral
banquet the other night that “in the case of
England being engaged in a war the whole colony
would rise.” Probably—in rebellion.
A Victorian M.P. suggested in the House
that the electoral rolls should be printed in coun-
try offices for the future. A good idea. For the
sake of convenience and handy reference, the
printing-offices should be near the local cemetery.
North Queenslanders who count their
chickens before they’re hatched are considering
the following names for the new colony North
Queensland, Alexandria, Torresia, Coralia, Car-
pentaria, Cooteland, and Gladstone—which latter
hear, hear!
The political difficulties of N.S. W. would
be at once solved were Sir Henry Parkes shaved.
Many a worse man has travelled on a silver mane
of hair. For similar reasons Sir Patrick Jennings
should have the top of his head shaved : he would
then be able to go into politics bald-headed.
More is to be heard about the Lieutenant-
Governorship of Victoria “job.” At Mayor
Cain’s banquet Justice H'giubotham had a better
reception than His Excellency Sir Henry Loch.
Considering the toad-eating quality of the as-
sembled company, such a demonstration was
specially significant.
Little by little we are ‘ ‘ cutting the
painter.” The Sydney Evening News now asks :
“ Why should not the colonies be permitted to
elect their own Governors 2 ” The Bulietin,
which was first among the newspaper press of
Australia to ask this question, asks it again, but
leaves out the E. N.’s grovelling “ be permitted."
“ A straw best shows,” &c. At a debate
on Republicanism vt Monarchy between a couple
of Wesleyan Young Men’s Associations at Stan-
more, Sydney, the meeting decided in favour of
Republicanism by 27 votes to 16. Debates on this
subject with almost identical result have
been held by two other Sydney societies recently.
According to the Evening News, “a lead-
ing Scotch Radical paper” says that “the energy
which has raised Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., so
far may well help him to the goal of his soul’s
ambition, and make him Under-Secretary for the
Colonies.” Will the News kindly oblige with the
name of the “leading Scotch Radical paper”
from which it quotes 2
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge, of England,
lately said at a banquet that “ He had never been
able to understand the principle of hereditary
legislation, unless it rises to the dignity of a prin-
ciple that persons should be entrusted with the
power of making laws, not only when nobody
knows that they are fit for it, but when everbody
knows that they are perfectly unfit for it.”
A few months back, Melbourne City
Council, by a majority of one vote, refused to
allow a section of the ratepayers to have the use
of the Town Hall for the purpose of expressing
approval of Gladstone’s Irish Home Rule policy.
This decision was the result of efforts made by
several Orangemen and the Akgus to prevent
Irish sympathisers from expressing their views.
The Liberals have now succeeded in ousting three
of the four councillors who voted to stifle free
speech.
TheN. S. W. farmers’ prayer for protection of
their industry, edited by Mr. T. H. Byrne, contains
some striking facts as well as some appalling elo-
quence. Among the former may bo classed the
statement that the colony imports goods capable
of production from its own soil to the extent of
£6 ss. per head, per annum, the import of wheat
alone being over £1 per head ! !! The petition
is being largely signed, and is carefully engineered
by Mr. Byrne—a young man largely imbued with
political Are and fervour.
The deputation business in Queensland is
going mad. Mr, Miles, the Minister for W orks,
had to run the gauntlet of to of them, the other
day, all about one wretched little branch rail-
way, and his temper suffered considerably—
indeed, when he had got rid of 36 he was so
vicious that he asked his attendant fogey if there
were “many more of these old dromedaries
about.” Poor Miles, even in his calmest moments,
has the manners of a grampus, and when he is
excited the spikiest alligator in Queensland is a
polished animal in comparison to him.
The “ Stark inquiry” is a mild little sen-
sation in N.Z. just no'y. A piece of laud was
wanted for Government purposes some time ago,
and the commission are now trying to find out
why a Minister paid Stark £16,000 fora block which
had been vainly ottered for two years at £7500.
They also want to know whether Stark is a near
relation of the N.Z. Government. Up to date,
Sir Julius Vogel has only found one witness who
is inclined to support him, and his evidence
doesn t amount to much. He doesn’t know Sir
Julius, he says, but they once occupied adjoining
rooms at a hotel and the Treasurer kept him
awake all night by his snoring.
Bismarck, the man of blood and beer, who
has a conspicuous grudge against the British
House of Commons, as well as against everything
that looks like popular liberty, recently said :
Ach ! Great Britain will be dissolved by the House of
commons. It is garrulity gone mad and sheeps-headed con-
i'? 1 .,-., It now contains hardly any member of conspicuous
ability, except Gladstone, whose ability is wholly pernicious
ami has not a gram of statesmanship. Any representative
assembly of nearly 700 babblers, most of whom are as silly as
they are conceited, especially in their notions of Foreign
1 obey, is enough to dissolve any Power. It is a sad pity,
Decause Great Britain is essentially inoffensive, and had she
one masterful and pre-eminent statesman, and half the num-
ber of political Aper. she would be generally beneficent and
everywhere irresistible, and her alliance would not only be
worth having—it would be indispensable.”
The Protection Demonstration in Sydney
on Saturday was worthy of the occasion, if not,
altogether up to the expectation of its promoters,
taking all things into consideration, no greater
result could have been hope d for, and the num-
bers present were quite sufficient to show that
the cause is making tremendous inroads on popu-
lar favour. About the biggest evidence of its success
may be found in the fact that the UERALuand Daily
Telegraph in their leading columns strive to de-
preciate its effect ou the public mind. By its
means the Protectionists have thrown down the
gauntlet; their display of numbers is a challenge
to a battle which the Free-traders cannot avoid.
t There appear to be in Australia some
people who get rich by being out of work and
starving. It is now stated that out of the 100
men who reported themselves in Sydney as being
unemployed and burdened with destitute families,
110 are either unmarried or are comparatively
well off. Some of those who are out of work are
said to have well-furnished homes and money laid
by for a rainy day, but rather than spend their
savings they prefer to haunt the soup-kitchen,
where Melville passes round the flowing bowl of
bone-wash, and Colonial-Secretary Dibbs blows his
nose to hide his emotion as he listens to the talo of
their sorrows. Those facts are given on the
authority of “ the officials who were sent to make
the inquiries.”
The other day the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph administered a bogus rebuke to Sir Henry
Parkes for his sinister appeal to sectarian passion
at St. Leonards. “ These passions,” said that
admirable exponent of all the finer feelings, “ are
the poison of our political life, and it is by putting
them down, not by raising them up, that the pre-
sent deplorable condition of public affairs can
only be remedied.” The Freeman’s Journal, in
an article headed “Satan Rebuking Sin,” neatly
pillories the D.T. by quoting this religious war-cry
passage from a D.T. leader published a week or
two ago:—
“ The evangelical clergymen complain of the Colonial
Secretary s discourtesy. . . , The evangelical party are
generally favourable to Orangeism and total abstinence
their principles thus take them into politics. Most of them
follow the lead of Sir Henry Parkes. . . . Hence they are
regalded as a battalion of the enemy, and the ordinary rule
of courtesy is dispensed with. Nobody for a moment sun-
posss that communications from Cardinal Moran would be
allowed to remain unanswered for week after week. But
Cardinal Moran is on Sir Patrick Jennings’ side.’*
“ The drift of this,” justly remarks the Freeman
“is as unmistakable as Sir Henry Parkes’ allu-’
sions to the ‘Escaped Nun.’ And quite as little
provoked, too. As for the discourtesy, if there
was any, Mr. Dibbs was wholly and solely respon-
sible. What Sir Patrick Jennings or the Cardinal
had to do with it no one could imagine— except
this consistent rebukcr of the sin of sectarianism,”
The Cambridge Gulf storekeepers, bavin <.<■
now very few Kimberley diggers to whom to sen
their stock, are trying to attract some scientific
fossils up that way to feed on the remains of their
high-priced rubbish. They report that the natives
are from 6J to 7ft. in height and when they run
leave a stretch of Bft, between each lie—we mean
each footmark—and they think a few old profes-
sors might do well to come out to that shrivelled
desert and look at them.
“OUR MEMBER.”
I am a legislator who
Feels all a patriot’s devotion ; *
And if at times I seem to do
Things inconsistent with this notion—
It is my zeal
That I reveal.
1 think the country’s interests ask
Forgetfulness of self, in session—
And if at times I drop the mask
Of gentleman, and in a passion
Scatter language that would task
A “drunk” to.beat—why, the digression
Proves—you’ll readily confess—
My very self-forgetfulness.
1 deem that those who can’t debate
Without a fish-wife’s furious fire,
Should be removed from that estate—
And dropped from one a little higher!
But if at times it is my fate
To use such terms as “ villain,” “ liar,’
My zeal again
That won’t restx-ain.
I deem that party call should not
Direct a conscientious voter.
And if at times I thuswise blot
My name, don’t blame me one iota ;
For no more conscience have I got
Than any irresponsive bloater.
It vanished when
My zeal began.
I deem the men who hunt for place
Unmitigated scoundrels —which is
No more rough than such disgrace
Deserves : and if sometimes my wishes
Show I've set my line and face
To trap some of the “loaves and fishes”—
It is my zeal
That makes me steal.
I think an argument should stand
Or fall without abusive friction,
And force of voice alone command
A contest urged with purest diction ;
But if I sometimes use a hand
When words alone force no conviction—
It is my zeal
I can’t conceal.
For I’m a legislator, who
Is full of dignified devotion ;
And if at times I seem to do
Things inconsistent with this notion
Id’s zeal, you see,
That bother me.


?t&co
tj/
'& /U*
cC < * — Q-*x**~a ~/&-V-
-ot,
■n jzs&*\
\, r- JV rU
/ftCy£ / ~ \
|
- [(
i|gp 2)/ip f V m \
r/ M,/eJ
ATLAS' QiSulhunn k Hercules HlboH'-
/or f/ij6 ref/cf /nucJt //tanfc<A - f /to/oe.
You clonT f/ricl it Sea Ay f
i#'\
nil
fd
<2? urou&Z
rfLyc "
/76/fai—
f'Co nfrcc ct/cC/on Co vey-erf <*■ M / -
UooCe. a/ S~y?i^S :'
THE sin s OF THE
1
.ifIWKEy (A'f
jßf.ua
i\w
fdf
no /otrrfe)/ &&
/>arfy. 'gjam
//?MM W
M/f* "
Pictorial Politics.


df
dfd
“Let the Dead Bury the Dead.” — (Cardinal Moran.)


Society
The much-talked-of Village Festival took
place at Neutral Bay on 13th inst. in the
grounds of Mr. Bennett, Commissioner for
Roads, and was favored by a cool and pleasant day.
The object of the entertainment was to provide
funds for the erection of a church whereof that
popular gentleman the Rev. G. North-Ash i'a to be
the first Incumbent. Probably not less than 2000
persons were present during the course of the
afternoon. The entertainment provided was
varied, running from waxworks to Shakespeare.
The waxworks were alive, which was a distinct
advantage, as they were a novelty without effort.
When they had finished being •“ works ” they
came out and mixed with the crowd, so that all
who had not spent a shilling to see them might
now gaze for nothing. The great attraction of the
day was, of course, the performance of “As You
Like It,” the scene being laid in a forest of two
stunted eucalypti, which in more peaceful hours
had apparently served as hen-roosts, and under
their shade was spread the feast of the Banished
Duke. By some oversight, though the cups were
there, there was no food, so that when Orlando
ran in and told the company to stay their appe-
ti’.os there was something very like an irreverent
snigger among the audience. But when the
young man went on with his piece, laughter was
converted to tears, and some were so much moved
that they never returned but took the first boat
back to town. Our old friend Mr. George Laber-
touche was all a banished nobleman could
possibly be—and, as we have known many ban-
ished noblemen, we can testify to the truth
of Mr. Labertouohe’s rendition, as also to
his disguise. Banished dukes always wear
hair d la Allpress, and yellow boots d la a Go-
vernment House A. D.C. This Mr. Labertouche
knows and acts accordin’. Mr. Stupart as Touch-
stone was a success. He looked the character to
the life, and nothing but constant rehearsal could
have made him half so natural. Mr. Alfred
Dampier as Jacques was very pleasing. What he
said could be heard, and as a lady near us re-
marked, “The words are not bad, are they?”
Miss Lily Dampier made a most effective Rosalind,
while Celia and Audrey were fair. But taken as
a whole the idea of a play in a forest is thin. The
crush was frightful, and the accommodation most
defective. The mere fact of H. E. and Lady Car-
ington having promised to attend should have told
the managers that an enclosure as large as a fowl-
house would be too small, and one embracing the
universe hardly too expansive. Their transpar-
encies were for some reason or othei attended by
some Lascars from R.M.S. Yaletta, and the conse-
quence was that the usual toad-eaters had to keep
back. Still the/ were not found sufficiently
“ strong ” to re j train the ardour of 11. E.’s many
worshippers. The dresses were unusually attrac-
tive. Lady Carington wore an exceedingly neat
costume of navy-blue velvet and cashmere, bon-
net of the same coloured velvet. A number of
black lace dresses were seen; Mrs. Bouverie’s
was relieved with red satin vest, collar and cuffs,
small black bonnet with red bows ; Mrs. Hogg,
black lace, with waistcoat of rod, white and blue
ribbon, black bonnet with same coloured ribbons
Miss Fosberry, black lace with trimmings of black
satin ribbons, black sailor hat. A pretty effect
was black lace over white silk. Mrs. Moriarty wore
cream Madras muslin ; Miss Frisby, white China
silk ; Miss Gilder, electric-blue merveilleux ; Miss
Ada Fosbery, a neat pink and white print frock ;
Miss Darley, stylish cream dress with small round
hat; Mrs. Chadwick, rich gros-grain electric-blue
silk, with bonnet to correspond ; Mrs. Hotham,
greeny-blue dress with touches of scarlet. A lady-
like dress was of grey and black stripes made in a
very graceful w r ay with long draperies and well-
fitting pointed bodice; an exceedingly stylish
gown was composed entirely of dark-blue velvet,
bonnet to match ; a very gay effect was produced
by large squares of crimson and blue with crimson
velvet jacket.
* * *
The past week in Sydney has been very
dull, but with the return of Lady Carington—
who, by the way, looks sadly jaded—matters wall
improve, and people will try and dance with the tem-
perature at 100'in an ice-chest. Sir Henry and
Lady; Loch are to be invited to stay at least a
week at Government House, and as a good deal of
English “quality” is gravitating to the anti-
podes, the summer months promise to be fairly
lively. lI.E. and Lady Carington look back on'
tlieir Melbourne trip with pleasure, despite the
fact that they put their “pile” on the wrong
llJl'cO.
* * *
Last Thursday afternoon Lord and Lady
Carington received a large number of friends at
Government House, Sydney. Tennis was freely in-
dulged in by an enthusiastic few who never miss a
chance; while the le-s energetic onlookers congratu-
lated themselves and each other that they wore sit-
ting beneath the greenwood tree. The general theme
of conversation was the Melbourne Cup, a number
of Sydneyites having only returned from the
South that morning. Lady Carington wore a dark
red and black costume with small bonnet to
match ; a lady lately from England had a very
pretty dress of flowered delaine worn with bonnet
cfrose-coloured velvet; another tasteful costume
was a handsome gown of white China silk with
rows of torchon lace let in at even distances round
the skirt, the bodice trimmed profusely with the
same lace; a neat and conspicuous dress was
cream nun’s-veiling with vest of heavy gold em-
broidery, bonnet of ruby velvet; a stylish ensemble
was presented by a dress of cream merveilleux
with drapings of spotted gauze, short sleeveless
jacket of white passementerie and lace, small
cream tulle bonnet wit h bows of pale-blue ribbon ;
a steel-grey cashmere worn with long loose waist-
coat, cuff's and collar of black velvet, small black
velvet bonnet and large scarlet flower, produced a
good and striking effect,
* *
Thus a grovelling Melbourne alderman, in
making a presentation to the daughter of the late
May o’ : - “ Let me express the hope on the part
of the g ■ ers of this bracelet that when you make
up row mind to change your noble and kingly
name j our choice may fall upon one worthy of
yuu’sTf, and the proud name you bear —the
kingb name of Stewart," Humph! We are not
at all certain that King James spelt his name
prcdi 'y in that way, but there is no doubt about
his Excellency, Carington, being a real, original
Smith. Henceforth we will always speak of the
excellent name of Smith. We trust that all
maidens bearing that excellent and vice-regal
name will choose Browns and Joneses worthy of
’em. 0, call the stewart, this paragraph has
made us very sick.
* * *
What must Lord Carington think of ns ?
The other day, when the vice-regal party arrived
at Granville en route for the Cabbage Garden, a
stranger standing upon the platform noted the
carriage occupied by the quality—not because it
was so occupied, but simply because it was
painted white. Feeling a curiosity about the in-
terior of this albescent object, the explorer, un-
conscious of the near presence of vice-royalty with
its wife and suite, strolled into the carriage, saw
some people at whom he scarcely looked, ex-
amined the fittings, etc., with the utmost non-
chalance and deliberation; then, after he had
sated his thirst for information in re N.S.W.
railway-car-interiors, he coolly stepped back on to
the platform. But his confusion was near. A
horrified station-hand grabbed his arm. “Do
you know who was in that carriage he was
asked in italics. “ No,” said our genius, airily,
“ some people were roosting around, but ordinary,
quite.” “ Ordinary ! Great Heavens! It was
Lord Carington’s party!’
It has become a very open secret that the
Governor of one of these loyal Australian colonies j
(not N.S.W.) is too fond of drinking the Queen’s i
health. ’Tis true, ’tis whisky; and whisky ’tis, j
’tis true. Here’s a pretty thing, and a very j
pretty thing ; turn round three times and guess j
who you can. The Sphinx has spoken.
CUMULATIVE AGONY: ANOTHER INJUSTICE TO THE N.S.W. CIVIL
SERVICE.
THE OFFICE BOSS (to Montmorsnci Jones, of the Wire Fence Regulation Department, who
has not arrived at the scene of his duties until 11 a.m.): “ I PRESUME, MR. JONES,
TH[?]T YOU ARE AWARE OF THE NEW REGULATION IMPOSING A FINE OF
FIVE SHILLINGS FOR LATE ATTENDANCE?”
JONES: “LOOK HERE, SIR, DO YOU CALL THAT BRITISH JUSTICE? WHY, I’VE
BEEN OUT ALL NIGHT —HIC—AND I’VE JUST BEEN FINED TEN SHILLINGS
AT THE POLICE COURT."
A Victorian paper wants to know why
Jubilee Young, when he held his historic gather-
ing of the mayors of Australasia, hired the In-
spector of Nuisances to act as master of the cere-
monies, and thinks he might have rigged up the
jubilee cook with a livery and a pair of calves for
the occasion. The writer says it was nothing less
than an insult to treat the visitors as if they were
a bad smell, or a drain-pipe, or a dead horse, and
he hopes this sort of thing won’t happen again.
* * *
That phrenologist who recently analysed
the Prince of Wales in the “loyal” columns of
the Melbourne Herald, has subjected hispalCar-
ington to the same process. Our Excellency has
come out of the ordeal with considerable credit.
The man of bumps doesn’t pretend to have en-
joyed the distinction of feeling Carington’s head,
but his face —carefully scrutinised from the dim
distance —appears to the professor as ‘ ‘ the face of
a successful soldier, man of business, or manager
of men.” That’s good. With a Russian invasion
and a two ■ million d elicit confronting N. S. W. we are
wanting a greatwarrior and smart financier badly.
There is comfort, too, in the tidings that our
soldier-statesman Gov. has “ a humourous nose,
such as is frequently seen on the faces of comic
and descriptive writers.” We’ll capture him for
the Christian World. Even more pleasant is it
to learn that our Mark-Twain-like Viceroy has a
brain “ of the elevated type of the ruling classes.”
Having enjoyed the pleasure of listening to Car-
ington’s one impromptu speech, we didn’t feel
quite certain as to what type of ruling-class brain
he really possessed. But, most satisfactory of all,
the professor tells us that “ there is plenty of use
for Lord Carington and many others of his class.”
Now that’s what we’ve been wanting to get at for
eume time, The grand secret lias been discovered,
When we hear a miserable, discontented Radical
enquiring “what the dickens is the good of him? ”
we shall tell the sceptical wretch to send 13
stamps and an addressed envelope to the phreno-
logist and get an answer to the conundrum.
Nothing would surprise us after hearing that there
is plenty of -why, who knows but that it
might be possible to make the haides de kong into
something useful! Sausages, say.
* * *
Now that new naval officers have taken the
place of the old on the Australian station, people are
askingus “if we know them.” Well, we do,and they
promise fair plunder for our girls. Some of them
have property at “ home,” and some spring from
the “ best families,” so there is a chance in both
directions. At the same time, we would warn the
naval dare-devils that when a Sydney girl makes
up her mind to land her man she does it. Nearly
every officer who returned to England in the
“ Thalia ” was either married, or had sworn on a
coil of rope that he would get married, and a
sailor never breaks his word, though at times he
stretches it rather far.
* * *
The present Lady Mandeville, daughter-
in-law of our friend the Duke of Guinea-pig—we
mean of course the Duke of Manchester —is a
boon gossip of Lady Randolph Churchill, both being
American. Their latest is to go to Dublin and
hold high revel in order to charm the hearts of
the Irish to the Conservative policy, an under-
taking which is rather difficult where a descend-
ant of “ Cutthroat Castlereagh ”is viceroy. Lady
Mandeville’s mother, Mrs. Yznaga, was once
ordered to sing “ before the Queen.” When she
heard the “ command,” the independent American
girl was furious, declared she wouldn’t be ordered
about by any old lady, and refused to go. Finally
she was persuaded, and appeared “at scratch.”
She took her place at the piano, and after a
thundering prelude, there floated to the royal
ears;—
" I'm a good old rebel,
And that s just what I am ;
And if you do not like it
I do not care a—ahem !”
And so on through several verses. The court
was paralysed, the singer’s friends looked dis-
tracted, and as to whether Victoria understood
that ahem, the fact that Mrs. Yznaga was never
asked to sing again speaks volumes. Her Majesty
complimented her on her voice, but she never ex-
pressed an opinion on the song.
* * *
The average Australian young lady will
swear pretty hard to get her lover out of an awk-
ward fix. At the Moree (N.S.W.) Sessions two
men were charged with abducting a girl apiece,
the daughters of a farmer, and the eloped females,
who were aged 11 and 16 respectively, testified
that the men had come to rescue them from their
father, who made them put up fences, split rails,
yoke and drive bullocks, and travel aboiit the
country doing contract work. They lived on
paddymelons, possessed only one dress and a
chemise, and were frequently beaten with a steek-
whip ; and under these circumstances they
started out into the wilderness, not knowing where
they were going, but, though this was rather a
loose way of making an appointment, they met
their lovers before they had travelled seven miles.
The flabbergasted father, who was a rather small
meek-looking individual, sat in court, with his hair
hanging down to his boots in horror as he listened
to these accusations, and when it was proposed
that two marriages might compromise the affair
he assented with an inward groan. He saw the
young ladies were desperate, and if he took them
back the chances were that it would be his turn to
wear the single scanty garment, and to be stirred
up with the flick of the bullock whip.
•K- * *
There is in Australia a plucky young lady
who is going to throw away a theatrical engage-
ment of £3O a week to wed the man she loves
—he hasn’t as many shillings screw for his seven
days’ work. We wish we had to choose between
love and a £3O note! “What would we do!’*
Why, we’d go for love every time.
* * *
In the Waverley tram the other night a
lady, made nervous by some obstacle on the line
and the confusion incident thereto, shut her eyes,
grasped with both hands the arm of a gentleman
next her, and asked, hysterically, “Is it over?”
This is the least part of the affair. When it was
over, the gentleman (who was the image of a
popular Sydney solicitor), charmed by her “ beaute
du diable ” and perhaps misinterpreting her action,
seized the opportunity and organised a “ mash.”
Amongst other bagatelles he made an appoint-
ment for the following day, to which she graciously
acquiesced. At last came the parting. Re-
luctantly he dismounted. “ You will come with-
out fail to-morrow ?” he asked. “ Yes,” responded
she with just a soupqon of malice; “by all
means— and I will bring my husband along and
introduce you.”
* * *
Her Majesty’s Masters of the Buckhouuds
(noble sportsmen that they are 1) seem to have a
fancy for sending their eldest sons to Australia
heiress-hunting, presumably. The Earl of Cork’s
hope and pride came over a while back ; the Earl
of Coventry’s hope and pride. Viscount Deerhurst
has just been appointed aide to Sir Henry Loch,
Cork and Coventry are past and present Masters
of the Buckhounds. The Master’s duties are
light. Two or three times during the season a
knowing old stag is taken out in a cart, let loose,
and hunted. When he has been hunted enough
he comes back to the cart, and is driven home
again. For superintending this “sport” the
British nation pays Lord Coventry some £lBOO
a year. Can’t Australia do something in
the same line for the “ noble lord’s ” recently ar-
rived son ?
* * *
Mr. “Ted” Solomon, the composer of
“ Billee Taylor,” has been arrested in London for
bigamy. Lily Grey, a good-looking music-hall
performer, became Mrs. Sol, No. 1 some years
ago, and lovely Lilian Russell (Amurrika’s Nellie
Stewart) became Mrs. Sol. No. 2 only 18 months
back. Everybody knew that the second marriage
was “crooked,’’and every body knew that Lily Grey
intended to lock her Edward up the next time he
came to London. Why he did come, under the
circumstances, nobody does know, and why the
dickens he and Lilian went through the “cere-
mony,” is a secret sacred to themselves. Lilian
was always understood to be one of those ad-
vanced divinities who don’t believe in marriage.
The mother, even, has expressed approval of her
daughter’s free-love principles. And now it has
come to this. We always feared something dread-
ful would happen to Solomon after seeing “Billie
Taylor,” but we didn’t dream that vengeance
would overtake him in this form.
• *
A mysterious disappearance Mayor
Young’s jubilee guests.
« * *
The rumour that Sir Charles Dilke is about
to start a penny evening paper is probably untrue.
He will likely start a Matrimonial Gazette.
* * *
Marriage is now within the reach of even
the unemployed. Threepence per ceremony at the
Salvation Army headquarters, Newcastle, N.S.W.
* * *
The T. and C. Jernil’s “Peeress” has
broken out again, this time to tell us all about the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts—to relate how sweet 66
wed sweeter 27. This we knew. But the Peeress
does tell us one thing we did not know ; she re-
lates that Bartlett on one occasion was heard to
say, “I wish she would lose every shilling she has,
so that I might prove the disinterestedness of my
affection.” That is so, but he did not say whether
he in that event would marry the dear young
thing.
» * *
One day in the dim, dim past, the mos-
quito tasted human blood, and rumour has it that
he has never been a vegetarian since, except
when the flesh of man or woman was not get-at-
able. That is where rumour erred, as has just
been discovered. The only way to snare the
mosquito is through its sense of taste. Two
articles particularly appeal to the mosquito’s
palace. One is a small baby, the other a half-
eaten apple. In the mind of some people it is
barbarous to take a small baby to bed for the ex-
press purpose of shielding our adult self from the
attack of the mosquitoes. It is much more
humane and equally effective, they say, to leave an
apple-core on the table before retiring. Mos-
quitoes like apple-juice better than blood. Thus
is the apple, the instrument of man’s fall, at last
made a blessing to a mosquito-cursed race.
* * *
The Melbourne Herald, in one of its Cup
sketches describes a “ swell ” —“ who loses several
years’ income without the flicker of an eyelash.”
Somebody else’s income, probably. The gaols arc
full of such “ swells.,”
* * *
The Rosehill races on Tuesday, the 9th,
passed off very pleasantly. A larger number of
spectators were present than have ever been be-
fore, including many city visitors. The lawn was
not greatly patronised, as the heat was intense.
The dresses were chiefly white of every descrip-
tion, and of crepe cloth material.
* * *
A somewhat remarkable marriage eventu-
ated near Auckland (N.Z.) the other day. A gaj
young dog of 73 and a giddy young thing of some
60 summers were the contracting parties. Nothing
particularly paralysing about that, you will say.
But hold on. The bridegroom had only buried
his first wife nine days before he took another
chance in the matrimonial lottery ; the bride was
a “relict” of somebody or other who had left hei
with a dozen grown-up pledges of affection, and,
stranger than all, the happy couple had hardlj
exchanged a syllable until they stood side by side
at the altar and whispered “ I will.” For romance
this wedding knocks Miss Braddon’s most thrill-
ing creation flatter than yesterday’s beer.
* * *
The Bulletin would calmly hint to mili-
tary heroes, whether of the colonial or
the imported brand, that medals are n
usually worn on evening-dress suits
small parties. Australia is just deve_ P
ing into a nation of colonels, and we are fai >
flooded with youths who have fought on uiany -


bloody field —in the English Autumn manoeuvres
and the goat and nigger campaigns of Egypt. When
these personages flaunt their dollar decorations in
our peaceful faces they remind us not of glory, but
of assassinated blackfellows.
* * *
In Adelaide—Happy Adelaide I —when a
military offence is committed they have not
enough officers to try the culprits, and so have to
send to Victoria for extra judges to make up the
court-martial.
* * *
We read in a Sydney daily paper that
“ many are anxious to hear whether Lord Caring-
ton is a Buffalo or not.” It is only right to state
that his Excellency is not a buffalo any more than
he is a donkey ; to prevent ail misconception we
may at once say that his lordship is a horse. In
North Queensland many years ago we had a
mining mate, a handsome cornstalk, whose early
education had been so terribly neglected that
when he fell in love with a pretty girl, an Irish
native who had been schooled at a convent, he
took us completely into his confidence and got us
to write his love-letters for him. No wonder she
became his abject slave ere the correspondence
had proceeded far ; in those eloquent epistles
were poured forth all the fire and affection of two
passionate digger-men—for, you see, we had no
sweetheart thereabouts, and under the circum-
stances we felt called upon to say not only what our
mate asked us to say, but also all the sweet
things wo should have said unto our own best
girl. We had never seen Billy’s fair enslaver,
but after having written her on his behalf about
11 pages of foolscap weekly for several months—
to say nothing of having had to read out to him
all her artless scrawls —we felt ourselves deeply
interested, and longed for the day when she
should send along her photograph. “Ah ! ” re-
marked William fervently : “You should just see
her ! She’s a perfect little daisy ! She’s a reg’lar
little horse.” So when we say that Baron Caring-
ton is a horse we do not mean to be in any way
uncomplimentary.
* * *
The Sydney Freeman’s Journal, which
claims that the late N.S.W. Chief Justice was a
Roman Catholic “in what may he termed the
theological sense, says :
“On the subject of divorce, Sir James Martin was in per-
fect accord with the teaching of the R.O. Church. At a
semi-public dinner only a few weeks before his death Sir
Alfred Stephen’s new Divorce Bill cropped up in discussion.
Sir James expressed himself strongly and warmly on the sub-
ject, and after denouncing the measure he remarked in a
tone of p%, alluding to the venerable ex-Chief Justice,
‘ What a sad sunset of so great and good .a life!’ Many, we
think, will be inclined to use the same wolds in speaking rf
the ending of Sir James’ own career, and it certainly is sad
that so eminent a man, who was to the last, in his heart at
least, a firmly believing Catholic, should have passed away
without being afforded the opportunity of making his peace
with God and of becoming reconciled to the Church from
which he had partly strayed, but from which he never wholly
deserted. What a sai pity, indeed, that the sunset of a life
in many ways so bright and so distinguished should not have
been sweetened by the consolations of religion, and beautiful
by the crowning grace and blessing of a happy death.”
We wonder what Dr. Barry, the prelate who read
the burial-service over the body of Sir James
Martin, thinks of this ? And we also wonder
whether the story about Sir James and the Divorce
Bill is really true?
4 OCLOCK TEA
Sydney Liedertafel has issued invitations for a concert to be
held in the Exhibition Building bn 23rd inst.
Mr. and Madame Kellermann gave a very successful enter-
tainment on Thursday evening, the 11th. Private theatricals
were the chief amusement.
Dr. and Mrs. Maearthy entertained a number of friends
on Friday evening at their residence, Hyde Park. Amongst
the musical performers were Mrs. Maearthy, M. Henri Kow]
alski, and Mr. Rivers Allpress.
A delightfully pleasant musical evening was spent by the
friends of M. Henri Kowalski and Mrs. Branscombe Wood,
principal and directress respectively of the. Royal School of
Music, on Thursday evening, the 11th.
On Wednesday evening, 10th inst., the members of the
Metropolitan Lii dertafel gave, at the Masonic Hall, a con-
cert, which would have proved more entertaining had one or
two lady artists been engaged to assist. As it was, every-
thing seemed heavy. The room was crowded.
At Miss Pedley’s At Home on Saturday afternoon in the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, over 100 guests were present, and a most
enjoyable afternoon was spent. It is a brilliant testimony
to the goodness of our Christian young men that so many
ladies should be quite “ at-home ” in their hall.
Mr. and Madame Oharbonne‘'-Kellermau gratififd a num-
ber of guests at Leighwood, Victoria-street, Sydney, with
private theatricals on the evening of the 11th inst. A
comedy, the “ Silent Woman,” the evergreen farce, “ Turn
Him Out,” and Grossmith's charming operetta, “ Cups and
Saucers,” filled the very enjoyable bill.
An informal analysis of the contents of a
Cobar (N.S.W.) rum-jar the other day revealed
a cake of tobacco, some hluestone, a few
iron bolts, a choice selection of dead flies, and
enough tricophorous to make it nice and tasty.
Judging from a paper by Dr. Phillip E.
Muskett in the Australasian Medical Gazette,
those most terrible injuries, compound depressed
fractures of the skull, have been treated with
extraordinary success at Sydney Hospital. Ac-
cording to the statement of Nelaton, the great
French surgeon, of the 16 .cases of injury to the
head in which the trephine had been used in the
Parisian hospitals in 15 years, all terminated
fatally; Erichsen says that in 45 cases reported
by Lente, of New York, there were only 11 re-
coveries ; and at Guy’s hospital there were but 12
recoveries out of 51 cases during a period of seven
years. At Sydney Hospital, on the other hand,
out of 22 cases treated by operation J 2 were
entirely successful. The Bulletin, not being a
medical paper, refrains from going into the
details of all these cases, but it nevertheless feels
bound to invite the attention of the profession to
one eloquent fact upon which both Dr. Masked
and the festive editor of the A.M.6. have not
dared to expatiate. It is this : that while one of the
patients, who had been kicked on the head by a
horse, -was presented to the surgeons in a
painless condition of peaceful insensibility—■
that while a man who had had his skull
broken by an iron crane-handle, was “perfectly
sensible and able to walk into the ward” —and while
others from among the injured men who had had
their skulls smashed by half bricks, and blasting acci-
dents, and three-ton fly-wheels, and runaway cabs,
were comparatively calm, the only man out of
the 12 who is set down as having been “in con-
vulsions ” was he who had been hit on the head
with a broomstick. Will some married surgeon
kindly explain this strange .physiological fact-? ..
A Bit of Plain Irish.
“ It seems that . Orangeism and ille-
gitimacy go together,” says the Pall
Mall Gazette—and that bastards in Ireland are
in proportion to Orange lodges. As the Conser-
vative newspapers of Australasia always make
the most of the undoubted fact that the Irish
Roman Catholics and those of Irish R.C. decent
contribute to the statistics a larger amount of
certain kinds of crime than their fellow-citizens of
other nationalities and religions, it is only fair to
put before the public a series of hard facts tending
rather in an opposite direction, culled from the
22nd detailed annual report of the Irish Registrar-
General. Statistical evidence has long ago estab-
lished the fact that the per centage of illegitimates
in pious Scotland grea’ ly exceeds that of either
England, Ireland, or Wales. And now we glean
from a perusal of the Irish Registrar-General’s
report that the illegitimacy rate is much greater in
the Protestant than in the Catholic counties of that
country. It has been persistently stated by all sorts
of writers upon Ireland that one of the greatest
banes of the country is early marriage, and that
the priests encourage it for the sake of tho mar-
riage fees, which are often very considerable. U pon
this question of early marriages the Registrar-
General (an Imperially-appointed official) has
something to say “ The percentage of persons
married in Ireland who were under age is very far
MR. EDWARD JOHN BATEMAN.
(Editor BALLARAT COURIER.) — See page 6.
below the corresponding rates in England and
Scotland.” This should bo pretty conclusive.
* * *
To return to the question of Orangeism
and illegitimacy. Taking first the provinces,
Ulster is found to the fore in the matter of un-
chastity. Placing the remaining three according
to the magnitude of their illegitimate per centage
the order is:—“Ulster, 4.3 per cent.; Leinster,
2.3 per cent.; Munster, 2.2 per cent; Connaught,
0.9 per cent.” Taking the counties seriatim, it is
seen that Orangeism apparently has an astounding
effect upon the shame and glory of Irish woman-
hood :
“ The highest in their order of unehastity are—Antrim,
5.8; Armagh, 50; Londonderry, 4.8; Down, 4.5; Tyrone,
4.0 ; Fermanagh, 3 5 ; Monaghan, 2.8 : Donegal, 2.0 ; Cavan,
1.6, These nine counties are in Ulster. In Connaught,
where the average of illegitimate births is 0.9, there are five
counties—Galway, 1 5 per cent. : Sligo, 1 per cent. ; Mayo,
0.7 per cent, ;Ro-icom:son, 0.7 ; Luitrim, 0.6. In chastity
these counties represent the flower of womankind. Let us
consider the meaning of these figures. In 1000 persons in
Banff (Scotland) there are 171 bastards ; in Shropshire (Eng-
land), 85 bastards; in Antrim (Protestant Ireland), 58
bastards ; in Leitrim (Catholic Ireland), 6 bastards."
* * *
Dividing Ulster into two portions, Pro-
testant and Catholic, and j udging these by the
numbers of Protestant and Catholic marriages
celebrated last year, we find the proportions to be
per cent. ;
Protestants Catholics. Illegitimate births.
Antrim 80 21 5 'B*
Down 73 27 4.5 ;
Londonderry .. 60 40 4.8*
Armagh 60 40 5 '
Fermanagh 51 46 3.5
Tyrone 53 47 1
Monaghan 34 66 2’B
Cavan 27 73 1.6
Donegal 22 78 2'
The counties marked * returned Orange members
to the present Parliament.
“ In looking over the returns, which are very voluminous,
it seems,” says the Pall Mall, “that half the illegitimate
births occur in workhouses. In some poor-law unions, such
as Mullingar, there was not a single illegitimate birth in
ISBS except in the division marked “W.," for workhouse.
Except in parts of Antrim, you can pick out the workhouses
by glancing down the columns and taking the largest figures.
As teachers of immorality, workhouses are curses in Ireland.
Poor women and girls, with a practical morality at least as
high as (say) the wives and daughters of bishops, when
forced by direst poverty to enter within their walls are
obliged by law to associate with the lowest of their sex who
are to be found there. There are no women in the world
more to be pitied than those who lose tfioir virtue in the
greater part of Ireland. The family they disgrace cast them
out utterly. No matter what may be their repentance, there
is for them no forgiveness. A return home, if once they have
left it, is almost impossible.”
In conclusion, we may observe that The Bulletin
has long suspected that lots of things besides Orange
lodges and the Bible were needed to make a nation
perfect, and we shall be delighted to hear what
the Reverends Barry Madgwickand Co.now have
to say on this interesting and much-discussed sub-
ject. People have many ways of estimating the
merits of a race. One individual may prefer the
nation or community which gives to the world the
greatest number of virtuous woman ; another
may award the palm to the country which con-
tains the fewest men addicted to stealing cattle,
shooting landlords, or breaking each other's
heads.
“The Bulletin” Cookery Book.
After a long and careful consideration of the
subject, wo have come to the painful conclusion
that some of the intellectual giants who wield the
Archimedean lever here, have their heads full of
the idea that all that is required to run a popular
paper is a cookery-book, a fashion-journal, and
the time-honoured paste and scissors. Touching
the cookery business, we must admit that we have
not hitherto paid that attention to the subject
which it deserves, but we have determined to be
behind the age no longer. Accordingly, we now
present our readers with the first instalment of
our culinary wrinkles, which, wo believe, will bo
found to be quite as valuable as those of the
Ho rsetkaij asian and Down and Gumtrbk
Jernil
Short-Bread.—Procure a penny roll, on the
time-payment system, if possible. Then chop it
in halves with an axe, and you will have two
short-breuds—too short, in fact, for a family of
more than one. Another, and surer, method is to
ask your baker for a 2Jb, loaf. You will get one
weighing about looz. This kind of short-bread is
very much used at present.
Plum Pudding. —First get your plums, on
credit. Then stone them with a brick, and throw
away the peelings. Obtain Boz. of flour, chopped
line —sunflower is the best—and mix with a quart
of eggs, and half-a-dozen of liquid fat. Add water
to taste, hut if water is found to be too strong, use
Woolloomooloo-dairy milk. Some cooks pour in
half a pint of good brandy, but as it is likely to
evaporate, many experienced persons drink the
brandy, and stir the pudding with the bottle.
Boil the whole till quite soft, then serve with
parsley sauce, and turnip-trimmings.
A Tasty Way of Using Cold Fish.— Take a
hen fish. The best season to do this is when the
fish-shop keeper is away next door telling the
barber all about the entanglements of the Eastern
question. Then take a small boiler, and well
soap the bottom. Baste the fish with a coating of
coal-tar, and farmer's friend, and then place the
lot on a warm fire. Procure (Jibs, of very stale
butter, or axle-grease will do as well; heat this
up with a quart of cod-liver oil, and stir in enough
sheep-wash and Cookie’s pills to flavour; pour
over the fish, and boil for seven-days. Then take
half of the very oldest cheese procurable (cheese
made about the beginning of the 13th century is
best, and may be easily known by its animated
appearance), spread this on the top of all, and
finish off the dish with a pint of Cooktown rum,
or pain-killer. Strain the whole through a three-
rail fence, and garnish with old cigar-stumps.
A Refreshing Broth for Invalids.— Take
a pair of old goloshes ; scale and clean them well,
place in a stew-pan with a bunch of garlic and a
bar of common soap, shred fine ; cover the whole
with Oondy’s fluid, and boil to a quick simmer.
Then add the juice of six Barcelona nuts ; a few
strips of greenhide, shred fine, and iust enough
tauyard bark to give the broth an agreeable
flavour. When the ingredients come to a boil
(which may be easily known by stirring with your
finger), beat the whole briskly with a tallow
candle, and add half a pound of glue or a pint of
bilge water, as the invalid's taste requires ; after
which, mix in a packet of the best Epsom salts,
two of Father Woolfrey's worm-powders, and a
little castor-oil ; boil the lot again for half an
hour, strain through a caue-hottorn chair, and
feed the patient with the broth by mean's of a
garden hose until he is able to sit up and pelt the
furniture after those who attend him.
General Hints. —Fowls should be boiled in
their feathers. When cooued in this way they
carve more easily. AU fruit, vixen in seascii,
should be boned. The best way to roast beef ii |
to boil a leg of mutton and let it simmer for 12
hours. Cuttle-fish make the best cutlets, and
beautiful mosaic patterns may be traced on nap-
kins with thick gravy, or stale mustard laid on
with a feather duster.
The Canieide.
A case tried at Melbourne Law Courts the
other day revealed the fact that the market price
of arsenic is only £6 per ton. This will be good
news to that large and increasing body of citizens
who cherish designs of a morbid character upon
the dog in the next yard. A hundred-weight of
arsenic, used economically, ought to last an ordi-
nary man a life-lime. And what potentialities of
keen pleasure are contained in this six-shillings’
worth ! The man has not really lived who has
not poisoned a dog. lie has not tasted the best
and sweetest joy of existence. After love has lost
its lustre, passion its power, ambition its attrac-
tions, gambling its glamour, and rum its romance
there is yet to the palled palate and sated
spirit this one rapturous pleasure remaining. Let
no man rashly say in his haste that ho has run
through all these, and that there is nothing loft in
life to live for. Lot him pause upon the solemn
verge of the Hereafter, and reflect before he chucks
himself over. Let him go homo and buy some
arsenic, and poison a dog. Any dog Will
do, but the more valuable the animal the
greater will be the delight in quietly arsenicising
him. After one trial of this now sensation we
engage that he will think no more of suicide.
Life will grow bright and pleasant to him once
more and every day will bring its now joy—and
dog. We state this from certain knowledge. We
are on speaking terms with an old lady who has
informed us, in confidential moments, that there
was a time when she would willingly have laid
down her head and died out of mere weariness of
all things under the sun. The future seemed to
have nothing in store for her but a monotonous
round of dull misery. Her husband had been laid
under the sod many a long year. Her children
had died or had left her, and she lived alone.
What could there be on earth for her to care for ?
She was a woman of superior spirit and scorned to
And amusement in surreptitious gin-drinking and
scandal. At last a blessed light of hope broke on
her. It was on a calm, lovely evening, when all
Nature seemed to breathe peace and love. The
rays of the setting sun shone softly and linger-
ingly into her back-yard and fell upon the form of
a dog—belonging to her next-door neigh-
bour but one—who had his nose in her
stock-pot. She said nothing. She never at-
tempted to frighten him away, as an ordinary
woman would have done. She simply stole noise-
lessly out and bought a packet of arsenic. The
following morning that dog was as stiff as a stone
image of Paralysis. Then she became aware
that a new and joyful existence had begun for
her. She felt the blood leap through her veins
like burning vitriol. Since then her whole object
in life has been the destruction of dogs. The
amount of arsenic that old lady u„es up in a
month is perfectly appalling. To hear her tell
of the hecatombs of dugs she has slaughtered is
like listening to an autobiography of a Harpy. It
makes the blood run backwards in the hearer’s
veins. A long course of this gri ly amusement
has made her an epicu o. She never poisons
mongrels or curs now; in fact she considers poison
wasted on any class of dogs except those of the
best breeds. Greyhounds, bulldogs, black-and-tan
terriers, and toy spaniels are Tier favourite vic-
tims. Little do the sorrowful owners, who adver-
tise for their lost pets in the morning papers, guess
what the doom of most of those pets has beer.
Once she has cast her eye on a deg and made up
her mind to kill him that deg is as good as a corpse.
She will have him if she has to wait a year for it.
Lately, however, she has complained to us of the
dearth of game in her neighbourhood. By some
freemasonry known to dogs they have dissemi-
nated the intelligence among each other that she
is their enemy, and the street in which she lives
is consequently deserted by the four-footed friend
of man. She takes this very much to heart, as she is
too feeble to go far in search of her little amuse-
ment, and too poor to hire a conveyance. It is a
pity to see a good old creature like this defrauded
of her only comfort, so we have decided on open-
ing a subscription for the purpose of buying her a
bath-chair to be wheeled around in when she
wishes to go out in search of game. We rely on
our charitable readers to help us in this deserving
object. Subscriptions to be addressed to this
office and marked on the cover of the envelope,
‘ For the Canicide.”
A N.S.W. public-school teacher in the
Bligh district is a perfect daisy. In giving an
“ object lesson ” on “ Beer ” the other day, he
told his incipient Australians that “beer was a
nice wholesome drink, and that their parents, in-
stead of giving them tea, ought to give them
bottled ale.”
It is proposed in England that churches
be obliged to provide extra means of exit, so that
in case of sudden alarm the congregations would
be able to escape safely. Such a reform is not
needed in Sydney. Here there is generally only
about one worshipper for each door, so it is diffi-
cult to see how there could be a crush, under any
circumstances.
A few weeks back we were telling how
Giles, an English jockey, had gone crazy under
stress of continual wasting and sweating. There
can be no question that Fred. Archer’s miserable
end must be attributed to the same cause. The
death of his young wife (Matthew Dawson’s only
daughter) was a blow to the “ demon,” doubtless,
but nobody with any knowledge of the man
would connect his domestic bereavement, of 18
months ago, with his suicide of last week. Dur
ing the last 10 years, Archer has swallowed enough
physic to unhinge the mind of the stoutest horse
he ever rode. 'Jhe excitement of a gambling life,
operating upon an enfeebled constitution, was too
much for him at last. A slight illness sent him
off his head, and —the cable has told us the rest.
Archer’s fame as a horseman wi!l live just as long
as racing is an English institution. Cavillers have
pointed out that the “demon” rode more “cer;
tainties” than any other jockey, and argued that
his merits were overrated. But ere young Fred
die had been six months before the public good
judges spotted him as a phenomenon. The father
of the present writer gave Archer some of Ivs
first mounts, and the boy did wonders for him. To
use his words, “ Archer always got off while the
others were thinking about it.” After he hid
made his great reputation, noodles were wont to
say that the starter favoured him. In private
life Archer was not altogether a loveable charac-
ter. Ho was so mean as to suggest the possibility
that he might have become a miser had he reached
old age. We remember sesing him “in a scott i
because the ticket inspector at a railway station
wouldn’t allow him to pass the barrier for a
special “ first class ” train to Sandown Park. An
obsequious official rushed up and pointed out to
the great Mr. Archer that he had only provided
himself with a second class ticket. Heigho ! We
call to mind the juvenile Freddie crying among
the branches of an apple tree because George
Fordham took away the ladder by which he made
the ascent. Since then the boy has made a
quarter of a million of money, and killed hiirsclll
We wish we had done the first half of it.


SNOWFLAKE. SNOWFLAKE.
SNOWFLAKE.
The CHAMPION BRAND OF KEROSENE,
Direct from the
REFINERY of LOMBARD, AYRES, and CO.,
NEW YORK,
combines
BRILLIANT ILLUMINATION
PERFECT PURITY
THOROUGH CLEANLINESS
ABSOLUTE SAFETY.
It is HIGHLY REFINED, WATER-WHITE,
NON-EXPLOSIVE, 150 deg FIRE TEST,
Has only to be used once to establish a
position in every household.
Burnt in a clean lamp, with a “Wamsutta” wick,
there is no other light which can compare with it
for household and general use.
IT IS 150 DEGREES FIRE TEST, THERE-
FORE ABSOLUTELY SAFE ; AND ONCE
USED WILL MAINTAIN ITS POSITION
AGAINST ALL OTHER BRANDS.
Buyers and sellers alike extol it, housekeepe rs
clamour for it, and all admit that it has on its
own merits established a reputation which nothing
can shake.
For brilliancy, purity, and safety it has no
competitor; and with these results is combined
the greatest measure of economy ever attained by
any kerosene oil.
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Brothers,
Limited, George Griffiths and Co., T. W. Eady
and Son, F. Butcher, Holdsworth, Macpherson,
and Co., M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, and Tillock and
Co.,
HOW MANY APPLES DID ADAM AND EVE
EAT.
Some say Eve 8 and Adam 2, a total of 10 only.
We think the above figures entirely wrong. If
Eve 8 and Adam 8 2 certainly the total will be 90.
Scientific men, however, on the strength of the
theory that the antediluvians were a race of
giants, reason something like this : Eve 8 1 and
Adam 8 2 ; total, 163.
Wrong again. What could be clearer than if
Eve 8 1 and Adam 8 12, the total was 893.
If Eve 8 1 1st and Adam 8 12, would not the
total be 1623 1
George Washington says Eve 8 14 Adam and
Adam 8 12 4 Eve ; together they got away with
8938.
But if Eve 8 14 Adam, Adam 8 2 4 2 oblige Eve.
Total 82,056.
We think this, however, not a sufficient quantity,
for though we admit that Eve 814 Adam, Adam, if
he 8, 0281242 keep Eve company. Total,
80,282,056.
Everybody is wrong again, Eve, when she
8 1,812 many, and probably felt mrry for it, but
her companion, in order to relieve her sorrow,
8 1 2. Therefore Adam, if he 8 1, 8 1 4 2 4 2 fy
Eve’s depressed spirits. Hence, both ate 81,896,054
apples, which is the exact number, more or less, of
the Suits made to mea-ure for £3. 3s. by Summer-
field and Co., the well-known Merchant Tailors,
235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney , Most beautiful
goods from the best colonial and British mills now
®n view. Eight high-class cutters employed.
Perfect West-End fit guaranteed. Country resi-
dents promptly supplied with patterns, tape and
32-page illustrated almanac, post free on applica-
tion.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, QJiarlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the eommerCial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine 1—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
tor invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JKNYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
‘Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
See., Sec.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS,
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited),
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head OTiice:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, draft’ and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
Lynch family bellringebs
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
Last Nights in Sydney.
To-night (Thursday).—Town Hall, Five Dock.
To-morrow (Friday).—School of Arts, Botany.
And next week at Maitland, Dungog, Kempsey,
&c.
JAMES SMITH 1 Advance
H. E. BARNES J Agents.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AMD
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
The Autophone ia a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the parts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &o. It
ia best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organettc.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBER'S, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
The Oriental Gold 00. haying, after close
and long investigation, satisfied itself that the
Elgin is the best Watch in the world, and the
best value in all grades, has taken this line as a
specialty, and will henceforth handle no other
watch. This Company will post a sample Watch
of any grade or priee to any address in the
colonies on its usual liberal terms. A week’s trial
allowed. If not satisfied return the Watch un-
injured, and the money will he restored, less
postages. Not many quotations can be given this
week, hut no one can go wrong in seizing this
single chance.
In accordance with our promise we give a priced
list of Elgin Watches this week. We wish to re
mark, in the first place, that there is not a cheap-
jack Watch among them. The name of the Elgin
Company is on every one of the million watches
it has turned out, a direct guarantee and responsi-
bility.
Sir'Each Watch is an advertising agent for the
Company. A genuine good article at a reasonable
price.
Observe that we sell no silver caged Watch at a
less figure than Three Pounds. We can’t do it.
The movement, commonly called the works, is too
good to permit of it. If we were dealing in
Brummagem Watches, made in the West of
England, and sold to any dealer who chose to clap
his name on them, we could sell a sort of thing for
half the money, and the biggest part of the first
cost would be the silver of the case.
Remember, each and every Watch manufac-
tured by the Elgin Watch Co. is a Patent Lever,
with Compensating Balance. Wesell nohorizonta
or other inferior movements.
If Three Pounds is more than you can afford,
we meet you by reducing the price of the case —we
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Thus, then, our cheapest line, and we guarantee
it as good as any English Lever you can get any-
where for seven guineas, is :
Gentleman’s Elgin Patent Lever Key-
winder with 7 jewels, patent
safety pinion compensating balance
in patent dsist-band case of ore-
silver, crystal-plate open face £2 0 0
Gentleman’s ditto, ditto. In hunting
case ... ... ... £2 10 0
M r Note —The Elgin National Watch Co. states :
—“ Ore-silver is a new white metal, manufactured
and controlled by ourselves exclusively. These
cases are, to. all appearances and in wealing
qualities, the equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band ease, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band ease, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, &o, ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
INTERCHANGEABLE SERIES.
A3T All the movements of the Watches in this
series are interchangeable both as regards cases
and parts with any other of our cases. Gold or
Silver.
Elgin N. Watch Co.’s Interchangeable
Three-quarter-plate, keyless solid
silver dust-band Mien face case,
Patent Lever Watdi, two pairs fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, com-
pensating balance, &e
Same watch—hunting cose
Interchangeable Patent Lever, Elgin N.
W. Co.’s, three-quarter plate stem
winding keyless, three-quarter plate,
patent pinion, compensating ba-
lance, 3 pairs extra jewels, and pa-
tent regulator, in solid silver-patent
dust-band open face case
Same watch—hunting case
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
Prices of Ladles’ and Gentlemen's Gold Watches
in a future advertisement.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD 00.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLBREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.
ANOTHER MUNICIPAL FRAUD.
At a meeting of one of the suburban councils
last night, another revelation of the “ways that
are dark and the tricks that are vain ” in muni-
cipal matters having been reported outside as pro-
bable, a considerable amount of interest was
shown by the large attendance of rate-payers.
As further action in the public interest will most
likely bs necessary, it is not considered advisable
at the present time to give the name of the
locality referred to, but the whispers of impend-
ing trouble had evidently caused no small amount
of local curiosity.
All sorts of rumors were current as to the nature
of the discovery said to have been made, well
as to the identity of the parties concerned, but
subsequent events showed that they wore all very
wide of the mark.
The chair was taken by the Mayor a little later
than the usual hour, and it was noticeable that
many of the aldermen wore a look of anxious un-
certainty with regard to the results of the forth-
coming disclosures. However, the ordinary
routine business was transacted in the usual man-
ner, although marked by a very unusual display
of attention, and by the entire absence of con-
versational interjections, and the stale old jokes
which are so often imported into municipal
deliberations. Towards the close of the proceed-
ings, and while the clerk was reading the report
of the inspector of nuisances, two of the aldermen
became suddenly engaged in a wordy warfare,
which culminated in the following distinctly
audible challengel tell you it was, and I’ll
bet a supper for the whole council that I am
right.” The Mayor interposed with his customary
tap on the table and gentle appeal for “ Order
gentlemen, order if you please,” and the business
in hand was proceeded with.
At its conclusion one of the disputants rose and
said:—“Mr. Mayor, I have a duty to perform
which, however unpleasant it may be, I still feel
is a duty—one which I owe to the council as a
body, and to the ratepayers of the West Ward in
particular. Accident yesterday placed me in a
position in which I overheard a statement made
by a brother alderman in regard to certain con-
tract matters. I was in the parlor of a well-known
hotel in this borough, when a certain alderman,
with two other persons, walked into the bar and
called for drinks—beer, in fact, of which I believe
three bottles were opened. The whole of the con-
versation which took place was not audible to me,
but I heard distinct allusions to some contract
between the alderman referred to and the publi-
can, who as the council is aware, is largely in-
terested in contract matters in this borough. I
also heard the publican impress upon the said
alderman the necessity for keeping it dark, to
which the alderman replied, ‘You bet! that will
be all right, old man.’ I have considered it my
duty to bring this under the notice of the council,
Mr. Mayor, and I now leave it in their hands.”
The suspected alderman then rose, and with his
customary genial smile remarked : —“ That's mo,
Mr. Mayor. I’m in it, and I must be allowed to
congratulate the gentleman who has just sat down
for his exertions in the cause of honesty and for
the nice discrimination with which he has placed
this mare’s nest under the nose of the council.
But he has been barking up the wrong tree. The
explanation is a very simple one. I went into
the bar of the Hotel with two friends, and for
the first time in my life I tasted Clausen’s Lager
Beer. Perhaps, Mr. Mayor, you and some of my
brother alderman are already acquainted with it;
if not, I may bo allowed to express my regret that
words have already failed me in the effort to do
justice to a description. It is the nectar of the
gods under another name. It will make an old
man young, a sick man well, a live man live for
ever, or a dead one dance the new jubilee polka.
It is better than a billet in the civil service, and
milder than the Ministerial defence of their
policy. Nothing I could say of it would equal a
practical display of its virtues, and I shall indeed
feel happy if the council and the ratepayers who
are present will accept my invitation and sample
it for themselves. At the same time, and for the
edification of my friend who has so nobly done his
duty, I may explain that the conversation ho over-
heard referred solely to a contract I made with
the landlord for a constant supply of this un-
approachable beer, and the injunction to ‘keep it
dark,’ applied only to a slight reduction made by
him in the price for a quantity.
“ Gentlemen, I shall be happy to see you across
the road, where we will drink the health of the
discoverer of this ‘disgraceful municipal fraud,’
in Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.”—
THEIR ONLY HOPE.
IKEY: “YELL, MOSESH, YOU VAS BROKE ON DE MELBOURNE COOP SO VAS I,
AND DER BERLEECE VON'T LET US BLAY MIT DER TREE CARDS. DERE
VAS NOTTING ELSE VOR IT. VE MUST GO INTO BEESENESS AS DER UNI-
VERSAL MUTUAL CO-OPERATIVE GENERAL LOAN AGENCY, CAPITAL TREE
MILLIONS. LOANS GRANTED ON DER SHORTEST NOTICE.”
Again the directors and members of the
Australian Mutual Provident Society are at
variance. Mr. Ralston, or rather his pension of
£1200 per year, is the present bone of contention.
Considering that Mr. Ralston has been treated
with the utmost liberality ever since he joined the
society in ’63, and has for the last eight years been
receiving £2000 per annum—which amount is to
be continued to the end of the present year the
proposal to grant an annuity of £1500 can only be
taken as another evidence of the mutual admira-
tion sentiment in which the Board have recently
indulged to the detriment of the interests of
members.
A Coincidence worth Noting.— On referring
to the Army Medical Reports, it will be found
that the principal miasmatic diseases prevailing in
Victoria are identical with those which prevail in
India, where Freeman’s Chlorodyne was introduced
in 1850, Used throughout the whole of the
Indian Empire with unexampled success since that
period in the treatment and cure of Fever, Rheu-
matism, Sore Throat, Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Con-
tinued Fever and many other Diseases, it is easy
to understand why the Colonists of Victoria en-
tertain such a highly favourable opinion of it, and
regard Freeman’,! Chlorodyne as the most valuable
household remedy extant for the treatment of the
above indigenous maladies. In India 150 agencies
are established. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ”
only. Trade mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from
all chemists and storekeepers.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rosms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, GOi Hunter-street
Sydney.*
WILLIAM BEACH.
“The Champion Sculler’s Opinion.”—Messrs,
Butcher, Fehon, and Co., Ill, Pitt-street. Dear
sirs,—I used your St. Louis Lager Beer during my
training for the late content with Mr. Edward
Hanlan, and think it the mast refreshing drink I
have ever tasted. It does not effect the head or
make me sleepy, as a groat many other beers
would do. I should advise every man who is go-
ing to train for a hard contest to drink the
Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager Boor. —(Signed)
Yours truly, Wm. Beach.—
EASY TO SEE THROUGH.
£How can a watch—no matter how eosTv—be expected to
go when the mainspring won’t operate? How can anyone be
well when hi* stomach, liver or kidneys are out ®f order?
Of course you say, “ H** cannot." Yet thousands of people
drag along miserably in that condition; not uick-a-bed, but
not able to work with comfort and energy. How foolish
when a bottle or two of Dr. Bell's Bitters would set them all
right. Try it, and get bmk your hedth and spirits.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
Bumm
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
Bmmm
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
HEATRE ROYAL.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20.
THE HISTRIONIC EVENT OF THE YEAR.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of his
Excellency Lord Carington, Lady Carington, and
Suite.
The Eminent and Distinguished Artistes
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI,
in the great historical drama
ELIZABETH
ELIZABETH
ELIZABETH
QUEEN f
°f \
ENGLAND. I
ELIZABETH
ELIZABETH
ELIZABETH
Supported by their powerful and complete
Dramatic Company.
Prices as usual,
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Propriet or and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Gravid Concert Spiritual Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
Academy of music.
Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEBTE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company of
London Speciality Artists.
Academy of Music, Sydney, To Let at the con-
clusion of Mr. Rickard’s Season.
Academy of Music, Launceston, To Let from
Monday, January 10, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuart
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in metion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphosoopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Fireman Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engrarer at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Go.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGBWSS,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System or Flour Milling.
Sol® Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Jlerberton Radhcay Section
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, -ections, Drawings,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offloes of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbano, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can he obtained.
Tenders, endowed “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way,” must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 18S7.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
UM . RILEY
• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
Damage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts ef the
glalv. he Is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
exp.tuit’i-n and strictest seeresy, and to faithfully and
prompt y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1880).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon, Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon, Henry Mort, M.L C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager;
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches ; Hay market, Pyrmont, Redfern, Qosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Loadenhall-street.
London Bankers; The National Provincial Bank of
England.
Under tlic Patronage of Ills Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHJST lOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING ! BEDDING I BEDDING I
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE'
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLERS.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only uy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
KAMBS’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
E AMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, la., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November IG, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES, Far full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Additions Lockup Gaol, West
Kempsey
Construction of Bridge over
Wilson’s Creek, Road Bexhill
to Tentinbar
Supply and Fittings in New Com-
pound Engine and Boiler on
board steamer Ajax
Supply and delivery either into
trucks at Newcastle station
or Honeysuckle Point, coal for
Great Northern Railway dur-
ing 18&7.
Washing Linen for Railway De-
partment.
Erection of Pumper’s House at
Bourke, Great Western Rail-
way
Construction of Goods Shed and
Landing Stage at East Tam-
worth
Erection of Bridge over Martin’s
Gully, Main North Road, near
Armidale
Erection of Central Fire Brigade
Station, Sydney
Supply of Coal to Railway De-
pots, Goulburn and Harden,
during 1887
Supply of Newcastle Coal to
Trucks, Darling Harbour, for
use on Great Western Rail-
ways during 1887.
Erection of Bridge Arch, Gos-
ling Creek Road, Orange to
Forbes.
Annual Contracts, 1887.
Harbors and Rivers Branch.
Supply of Awnings, Sails, Tents,
&c.
I Do Anchors and Chains
Do Brooms, Brushes, &c.
Do Castings
Do Portland Cement
Do Coal delivered at Fitzroy
Dock, oj- on board dredges
and Tugs, Sydney Harbour
Conveyance of Coals from New-
castle to the Bellinger River
Conveyance of Coal from Wol-
longong to Shoalhaven
Supply of Ccal, Lake Macquarie
Do Engineers’ Stores
Do Hardwood, Colonial Pine,
Oregon, Baltic
Do Kauri
Do Indian-rubber Goods, Can-
vas Hose, &c.
Do Ironmongei’y
Do Oils, Paints, &c.
Do Plate, Bar Iron, &c.
Do Rope
Do Ship Chandlery
Do Steel
Do Copper and Lead Pipe
Do Wrought-iron Angle and
Connecting Bucket Links
Do Wrought Scrap Iron Forg-
ings
Do Surveyors’ and Architects’
Material
Do Wrought Iron, manufac-
tured in New South Wales
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Tuesday,
November 23,
at 11 o clock.
Construction of Bridge in Ap-
proach to Mehi River Bridge
at Moree
Construction of Covered service
Reservoir, Minmi
Construction of Bridge over Yan-
ko Creek-road Yamma to
Colombo Railway Station
Constructor of Over-bridge,
Guinea-street, Albury
Tuesday,
November 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
rjIHK CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H^IEIDICZITE
T. JOKES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London).
Medicine, Perfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI,
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through,
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical*
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,.
531 Qeorge-street only.


Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country are sither directly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &e., are aU'-g the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no vymptsms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUTAOTUEING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON tc CO,, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South. Wales and Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
df
df
df
c
5* A
°r m
i
I
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATSCAPSIt
438 CeTrCE ST
SYDNEY %
fy/iost te Lassetters
$
ot
FE3Sr^rEL3L.Y 3 S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
20G PITT STREET, and 119 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. G-ARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
mHE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
I and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 209 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTH ENWA R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
u and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
dfd
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, See.
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
FJIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
PhD., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now bo also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumei-y for Rowlands
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
i E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
fdf
df
17CREW1N
w ? tcy
%d
G
& /^C?v^£r\
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in ttie
LARGE BOTTLES ” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. GHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknewledged to he beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. 0. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
grosvenoTgalleries,
Royal Arcade.
WJ O H N S O N~
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, now and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
l\ Alt ITS BRANCUES, _
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
2 Calfiuets
taken ft r
3/- 7
df
$TO pl °
'378
William S'
REMINGTON
HE
TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
sou tty see rains, scccebs el shots.
<OLQX V*VriH«f
•diBl TMMSIA
•6SBJ 'MOISOS
iffZTazx sznu
MUTHAWAT’S
|U SEUilll
Peerless
moss.
I iscassily h mry
family, it blacks ud
polishes Ladies* ud
Children’s But*
Shoes, Mtm tod
Satchels, Billed
fcrsshioga llviyt
fires satlsfactlct
is ecosiiisd ts tt
•the simmr
C. L. H AUTH A WAY & SOM*,
831 * 233 Congress Street, Costed
MASS.. ILB.A
UMERi: LLAS
SS-COVERE’D.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
Anything yon require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
»0 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T^ V SHOULD Y USE } PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
rl o ~0~ ' rr> T
IT IS MADE FROM THE B K
in a Mill replete with the newest andm^
New Process Machiner* 9
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and theTjUA jIW
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOl
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 George-street, Sydney,
Good News for the Music-loving Public.
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/0, 5/6. 1/6, 9/6. 12/6, H/«, XI/. X 5/. SO/
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
W'
onu
ACCOEIEONS
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 12/-.
10/6.15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS“ 4#/ " “felsiS. 10 *'-
ities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
The new ‘ ‘Reynolds” model
with double water key... 910
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The *' Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
!3t Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ
MUSIC! MUSIC ! MUSIC!!
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music,
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
WORTH OF 01
MUSIC FOR 3D 1*
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages-


RAW VASELINE.
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Sergo, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
r
d
fd
T. FODEN & CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
fd
MANUFACTURE
fd
'CONFECTIONER
4Zo.fa»roe St\
JYDSruy
JANES STEOMAN
Steam works, Kent s t near Ersnine ST
CoJ\44 OH- 4)O**o, ohu£*H4X& |
rvoxogft om Shortest nance.
l y3pyj^o / iai s j y <> v
Oovffrnr 4 Sm>rn*C figirw mtfffA
m
SINGER
and Co.'s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
368 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I
H
' N O X d VM V H X O O
HVHSN| SVV^i
SWOIX33MJV J.S3H3 lltf QNV
SHgnoo. ‘sniHONoua^ywHisv
3 H | vj»?g
;ii
J
L
U
L
I
I
£
H
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Goto Mei als—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfunns
EAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S
CELEBRATED EAXJ DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for hs strength and delightful
odour. It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine penume for the hand-
k irchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. A E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “ Golden /
Lyre."
JB
J CORNTLLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
w — • Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
tiaTe on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E, Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
ve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
a. v incola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c,
_The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
interest as follows;—SEVEN PER CENT on
and rrm P i? 3its for 12 rnonths ; FIVE PER CENT.
CENT VVARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
Bratov, °n BUms from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
"«cn, Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-st,
J. V, WARHE AM, .Manager,
invite inspection of our LARUE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all classes
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
AND
g-ezesteiflajl, furnishing drapery.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
FT
Jfe
~i ~&L
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
2ft £0 18 0
3ft 1 0 0
3ft. Gin. ... 12 0
Rt i i o
4ft, Gin. ... 1 5 0
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTRA1L, £2 5s.
iter Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide, 'ua
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
/-■
Cf h n
a
\'v
■A.
Si
V\\
\
k
is.
*1
Pu. f
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Yell, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in dc
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co.
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital .... £25,000.
Head Cittcb : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. ( John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
£3T Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered .against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
i^UHTCASri£ W fIT
•[MANUFACTURING HATTERS]
GEORGE STREET
SVDN Elv:
raArRTHSTrnrtWHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
*Ol popnow* saapjQ AqonoQ
•oqjj qeod BonSoi^vQ
•ahncias ‘xaaaxs xxw soz ‘aavouy 200
ScMooimaq
A4.81A no SXBAi'p} BJfOOg AAA<
ptreqpuooas pun mo N gaKmOA V/UU
poSanqoxa ao ‘ppg ‘;q3nog
'Sxooß 'sxooa ‘sxaos
G-. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
, „ , FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers: T. Purdy tand
Sons, John Rigby- and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T Rland.and j-Son: also'Bn®ey and Co.,
thi fi^j DU 4 1< i tUre ' kll \ ds of , Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field.niA large* Assortment of other celebntpd raa Wa'
stock on hand from,Webey, Riley. SooU, “
602 GEORGE-ST.7TBRICKFIELD hill
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited, tar Priee Liat on application,
M
ONUM E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requea
J. ( IWIVi.II VW,
MARO WYNWARD SQUAKK, SYDNEY
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
hi E RV
f
BRAm
iTR EATM TNT
Dr. E. C. Wests Nerve and Brain Treatment,
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fi
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depressio
oottemng of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each b(
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes f
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Gda
antee six boxes T- CURB any e.\sE. With each order r
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we w
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund tl
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarante
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver con
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation c
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Live
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. The
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfactior
Barge boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale b-
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. Thi
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Bout, hprams. Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Hip Disease White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
r l r i o , W ' S ’ Ila I red Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY,
CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
JJ RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
df
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI OUT KltH of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BA G A TEI .1 iE 1 IOA 1 ?DS, Portable, varleus
Hizcs. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O'Con
nell-street.
dfdf
Austrian chair's
In Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMH,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BKN'I U 001) Fi;i; \rrURE. —A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite now
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
ARYING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch,
D
W
: INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
rr
SIDEBOARDS of modern
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY.
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at Ml
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
\\T AEE CABINETS for Choice China,
andLaml ELE GANT. Bradley. Newton,
~\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES Bradley, Newton, and Lamb!
O Conneli-street. ________
WALL-MiRBORS and
in I lush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
rrom ss. 6d. each. ’
Elegant Venetian richiy
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb. ’
Jhh
■
i-..
o
0
Drawing room'cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’ onnell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets " ’
A-:
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
d
BEDS! EADS, all sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BIDDING.—AII descriptions at lewest
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
fd
SPRING NATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also. Spiral Springs
Price, from 11s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB,


BRIEF MENTION.
A lucky wharf for an absconder —the
latent Slip.
A verdict for 7d. and 3s. costs has been
given at Queanbeyan against one Mackey.
Why were the Australian Eleven defeated
in England ? Because Spofforth met his “ match.”
“Who owns the goats?” asks an Even-
ing News writer. Why, the Contingent, of
course.
A great many girls and racehorses went
to Melbourne lately. The horses went to fulfil
engagements.
“ Of course all the trouble was caused by
a woman,” says a Lismore paper which has
thus severed the friendships of years.
A Victorian country paper says : —“ Our
greatest glory consists not in never falling but in
rising every time we fall.” That editor ought to
reek with glory at this rate.
Mr. Sankey, of Moree (so Mr. Abigail
says), felt downhearted when ho found someone
had “ annexed ” his deposit of cash. In this case
Sankey had reason for being Moody.
A farmer fell dead whilst transacting some
business in the Lands Department, Melbourne.
He went in during the morning, and was attended
to before that day twelve months, and the shock
killed him.
We read that in the Lord Mayor of
London’s procession last week “a squadron of
cavalry followed immediately behind his lord-
ship’s state coach.” This must hav6 looked very
much like the butchers following the pigs.
It is stated that a number of what wore
supposed to be infernal machines were landed in
Melbourne the other day. Gas meters, probably.
You have to be a householder in that city to under-
stand the point of this little joke. It is sarcasm
of a very bitter kind.
A man at Ipswich (Q.) was seized by a
horse, which would have bitten through his leg
but that its teeth closed on a florin in his pocket.
According to all the old authorities he should
THE THREE BLIND MICE:
f
\
df
dfdfdfdfdf
a
“ALL UNCONSCIOUS OF THEIR DOOM. THE LITTLE VICTIMS PLAY."
have "beeTi saved through a Bible which he got
from his dying mother, but things don’t go that
way in Australia.
In an obituary paragraph on a departed
publican, published in the Victorian Licensed
Victuallers’ Gazette, the gifted obituarist says
of him :—“ None sought relief from him vain,
and hia kindnesses were done by stealth.’ We
presume this is an elegant wa-y of saying that he
always kept his pub. open on Sundays.
The people of Bungaree (Vic.) are people
after our own heart. They know what fun is.
The Ballarat Courier says of them that “ they
are amongst the most funeral-going people in the
world. There was a funeral of an old resident on
the day of the race-meeting. The races were
postponed and the people went to the funeral in-
stead.”
There was a case tried at the Collingwood
• (Melbourne) Court the other day in which a
woman was the principal witness. The Bench
dismissed the case on the ground that the woman
committed barefaced perjury in the witness-box.
She was not indicted for this, however, and was
allowed to go free. “ I knew of her before she was
married,” said the guileless chairman. Hum !
A Melbourne pawnbroker brought an
action against the editor of the Richmond
Guardian for calling him “ a mean fellow.
It was a distressing affair altogether. Journalism,
as a profession, depends so much upon pawn-
broking, as a profession, that we cannot but
•express our regret at anything occurring which
may prejudice our cause the next time we want to
pop our Waterbury.
More swearing. A N.Z. small boy was
brought up as a witness against his
mother, but as he was not thoroughly posted up
in Hell his evidence was declined. The police,
however, got an adjournment for a week, and at
the end of that time they had taught that boy so
much alleged Christianity and other things that
ihe passed muster and swore the old woman into
iseveral years’ imprisonment straight off.
At Oamaru (N.Z.), the other day, an
-imposing-looking stranger got into the Court-
■ house by the window, and taking possession of the
'magistrate’s chair, wrote out a full pardon for
‘Thomas Hall, the convicted poisoner. He then
entered the proceedings of the Court in all the
books lying about, and emptied the ink-bottle over
a number of documents. He is now busy writing
out a pardon for Satan in a lunatic asylum.
A little religious monthly published in
Melbourne quotes with approval the statement of
Horace Greely that “ the darkest hour in the his-
tory of any man is when he sits down to study
how to get money without honestly earning it.”
What a spell of Egyptian darkness a man must go
through before he announces himself as a candi-
date for a Victorian constituency ! There isn’t
such a burst of celestial light either when another
felloW makes up his mind to become a parson.
A member of the Salvation Army came
across a drunken man lying in the street of a
Melbourne suburb on Cup Day, and took a watch
and chain from him —“for fear,” as he naively
informed the magistrates, before whom he was
brought up, “ that some dishonest parties might come
along and steal it from the poor man.” This
good Samaritan got 12 months for his thoughtful-
ness. Halleluiah ! Nexftime he sees a drunken
man lying in the street he will probably “ pass by
on the other side.” Virtue has a hard time of it
in this sinful world. Let us be thankful we are
not virtuous.
Melbourne Age suggests that underpaid
curates should “ turn policemen.” The suggestion
is a good one. We had pointed out to us in Mel-
bourne the other day a retired policeman, who
was said to be worth £3o,ooo—all saved out of his
pay, of course. This would not be a bad sum
even for a bishop to accumulate. But we are
afraid the palmy days of the “ Foorce ” are over.
We were talking to a policeman the other night,
and he told us the:business wa? getting played
out. “ Pshaw !” we remarked, “ you have your
little terrace of houses, no doubt,” “ Terrace of
houses be ———,” he replied with gloomy scorn,
“ Ther-e’s getting to be too much darned tee-
totalism about for a man to make anything over
his pay in these times.”
Mlt was a member of the present N.S.W.
Parliament who first introduced the rabbits into
Balranald district—into Riverina, in fact.
A resident of Southern N.S.W. writes,
saying that it is rather hard lines when both local
I doctors simultaneously go on a three months’
drunk.
It is proposed to publish a summary of
the proceedings in the last session of the N.S.W.
Parliament. The title of the work Will be “ The
Habits of the Hog.”
In the Jones divorce case, two of the
witnesses examined were named Mormon and
Bustle. There many be room for the E. News
corpse-poet to build a joke here.
In consequence of that Violet Cameron
scandal, the “soiled doves” of Lonsda'.e-strect,
Melbourne, are thinking of removing, en masse, to
some street bearing a more respectable name.
We have heard that a number of young
ladies of Melbourne propose to start a Ladies’
Cricket Club. We have not heard anything of a
Wash-tub or Helping-mother-in-the-kitchen Club.
Cut a fresh roll in slices, and butter
them well. On the buttered side place
chopped parsley; then a hard-boiled egg,
cut in slices and on top of this place a layer
of anchovy paste, or, better still, the anchovy
itself, then another slice of the roll and you have
Charles Dickens’s “artful sandwich.”
Even the Australian blackfellow can sink
a little lower than Nature built him when he
comes in contact with the Chinaman. At Charle
ville (Q.), a policeman recently dissevered a
whole heap of niggers stupefied with opium, and a
Mongol lying on top of the pile. He had been the
last to succumb.
1“ I fear Life’s many changes, but not
Death’s changelessness ” was the record left be-
hind by an unknown who had one tooth missing,
and wore Frisco-made clothes. His name is
thought to have been Herbert Wilson, and he shot
himself with a revolver on board the s.s. Bunin-
yong last Friday. In his pocket was found £41105.,
which he desired should be given to a young lady
in a Melbourne hotel.
The very latest. 9 a.m. ; France will not
withdraw her troops from the New Hebrides.
10 a.m. : France proposes to surrender Rapa to
England and will cease sending convicts to the
Pacific. Noon : France has made an important
proposal. 1 p.m. : Her Majesty’s Government
cannot, consistently with their duty to the Crown,
accept the suggestion of the French Ambassador.
2 p.m. : France will see England bio wed first.
3 p.m. : England will see France bio wed also.
3 30 p.m. : Graham Berry has an interview with
the Secretary for the Colonies and has urged him,
&c. 1 p.m. : England shuts up for the day. We
are sick of it all.
Up North a certain Ecv. Padre gave a
“mission,” the morning exercises whereof were
devoted to children. On one of those occasions he
told them a story about a bad boy who stole a
plant out of a garden, brought it home and put
it in a box on the window-sill. After a while it
bore a beautiful flower with five leaves, and each
leaf formed a letter which combined spelt the
word “ thief.” For weeks after this there was
hardly a garden but was quite denuded of its
plants by the boys and girls of the neighbourhood.
Each youngster might have been seen watching
his or her root expecting the flower to bloom that
was to call him or her thief.
There was another row in the Sydney-
Municipal Council, the other day. The Mayor
read a thing a yard long which he called a minute
in which it was stated that Aldermen frequently
did acts of charity, at the expense of the city, by
putting the halt, the lame, and the blind on muni-
cipal works, and disposing of their own personal
friends in like manner, and when these deadbeats
were discharged as useless by the overseers would
cause them to be reinstated. Some valuable in-
formation was expected regarding these little
games, but Alderman Harris described the minute
as “rot,” and amid the customary hog-sty lan-
guage which ensued the original point was lost
sight of.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph flaunts
its London correspondent’s statement to the
effect that “ the working-c’asses in the colonies
do not know what distress is compared with the
would-be wage-earners in England,” and that
“ they are aristocrats compared with their fellows
in England,” as if that were something strikingly
new and original. The inference intended is that
Australian labourers should not seek a remedy for
their distress until they are reduced to the English
level —a proposition which will be indignantly
repudiated by the Democrats for whose support
the D.T. deliriously bids. Perhaps there is also a
Freetrade appeal in the par. ; as Freetrade has so
I id need the English labourer, the D.T. probably
dsl es K.S.W. to follow that policy in order that
)cal workers may be similarly depressed.
Mr. Henry T. Fox writes “ There is a
opular error that the ship Dunbar was wrecked
t the Gap. In reality, she was not wrecked at
he Gap, but some distance south of it, nearer the
ignal-station. It was there that Johnston was
iscovered and hauled up over the cliff. A large
umber of the bodies were washed on to the flat
able-like rocks at the foot of the Gap, but the
vreck did not occur there. This was proved to
Lemonstration a year or two afterwards by the
Lissovery, on a particularly smooth day when the
vater was very clear, of the wreck lying on the
>ottom. A diver went down and reported the
jottom of the ship as being there, with the heavy
veights, such as iron bars, chain cables, &c.,
kill holding it in the position in which it had
widently sunk.”
At Christchurch (N.Z.), a man without
legs has been making a little excitement. The
upper half of him was in gaol, but he managed to
stump about one morning and break everything
in his cell, after which he got through the window
and dropped to the ground. He did not break his
legs in the process, and though a lot of warders
and some mounted police were sent in search of
him ho galloped along on his ribs and the tip of
his spine and left them all in the lurch. He took
refuge in the hospital, which was presently stormed
by the “hossifers,” but the wreck of the escaped
cripple took off his coat and fought the crowd
with a board till he made them draw off. In all
probability he might be holding the premises to
this day, but unhappily his stomach had not been
amputated as well as his legs, and at last he grew
so hungry that he was forced to surrender.
Sydney has just been blessed —or cursed
by the arrival of some 300 or 400 new immigrants,
so we may presume this happy land is going
ahead. No doubt all these strangers will _de velope
into useful and valuable colonists—the girls being
transformed into cheeky slaveys at 15s. a week,
who will demand six evenings out, and will
grumble because the Gregorian calendar is not
elastic enough to let them get eight; while a lot
of the men will reinforce Sydney Soup Kitchen ana
get demoralised by charity meals eaten daily un-
der the blighting eyes of Melville, Dibbs, and a
dozen policemen. Lord Carington, however, has
patronised these strangers with that affability
which characterises Governors, so they ought to
have good luck. His Excellency told them that
they should “go up country.” This was very wise
of him. It looks had to see so many hungry
tramps outside the gates of Government House.
Judging from the “ Songs of the New
Land” in the Sydney Globe, we fear the coming
Australian Protectionist is not going to be a poet.
The writer is forced to write about “ tok’ns ” and
things of that sort to make his lines oven, and as
no living Australian can pronounce “ tok’n ” as
one syllable, the thing is a failure even then. The
following, the bard’s best verse, would drive a
compositor to drink :
“ ‘ He laughs the best who laughs latest,'
And when Men come in their might
Will you taunt them, you who pratest
That Money is always right ? ”
Mr. Ireland, of Hockley, N.S.W., has
been the victim of an unfortunate error. In May
last he was ordered to pay Bs. a week for the sup-
port of a certain illegitimate child—the offspring
of * white woman—and now the infant has
developed distinctly Chinese features, and shows
a striking resemblance to Chop Tick round the
corner —looks, in fact, more like China than Ire-
land. Consequently, Ireland appealed and won his
case, though he had already stumped up for six
months, which, to some extent, damped the hilari-
ous joy which filled his heart at dodging Chop Tick’s
brat. But now the lady has appealed to a higher
court, and swears to make Mr. Ireland pay for
the rearing of the semi-Chinese babe, and the
victim desires to know if the white man has no
country or if he is left in the lurch, and likewise
what has become of the Established Church when
such things as these can be in this happy land.
The Victorian Shop Employes’ Union is
asking for the support of the clergy on the early
closing question. The act providing for the closing
of most retail houses at 7 o’clock is being over-
ridden by municipal bye-laws, and the Union is in
despair. Shop assistants, it seems, are unable »o
attend “ temperance, Sunday-school and mission
meetings,” during the week. This is hard, but we
don’t think the parsons will do much for them. In
the first place, reforms of any sort are not in ac-
cordance with parsonic principles. In the second
place, the nigger-driving shopkeeper is usually a
churchwarden or an elder. Now, if the employees
want real sympathy they must appeal to
who run whisky-mills and theatrical shows.
Will be glad enough to procure for the ffe
the counter more time to discuss opera
and long drinks. ,
A Chicago theatre-manager has
hang the eight Anarchists now under ha3
death, and not charge a cent for the job.
a melo-drama on hand with an execution
last act, and he thinks it would take be tc
used a live Anarchist each nigh ft
waded through the lot, instead of swinging
wooden dummy. rg
The soi-disant Christians of Melb
again moving Parliament for the abo i 1 oB .ied
Symes and his Liberator, but a hoiit it-
Government hardly know how to _ un der a
They made the attempt a few years B tug or
statute that dates from the , tim ® ? nious ly that
thereabouts, but they failed so ignomi cler ics
now they are inclined to suggest j n to that
should try to put a little more energy „ and seC
solemn “ Seventhly, my # dear brethren, that
if they can’t make their ,own show
Symes will be deserted. dered
From our youth up we have won
why careful Christians made a P™ o^ 1 WG kno*'
into their hats at divine service. ir ne xt-d o 0
It is because they are afraid of p aU j flopP l
neighbour sneaking the ‘ cadey- ther n igdit
wont to a Melbourne Gospel Hail the Carne d
and immediately engaged m P ra > out his bat-
away by his devotions, he forgo j^art
Presently a stray sheep with.a . ext to
battered tile rolled in and took. the
Paul. “ Let us all pray for one on®
contrite one. They Pray®d- re f r esbed.
rose from'his knees feeling m taking 1 ,
he went out to fight the ’.instep JJ
Hoppi’s brand-new eight-and-sixP ch h 8 oa®
the disreputable-looking slouch p a ul, 3
to find redemption. ( The md g iroBpaSS «g
fervently repeating, forgiv trespass® 1, ~4
we forgive,” See., wen> after'the
gave him in charge. The m this ig , pIO J
with three months. The m h 0 help th
Heaven doesn’t always help those wn
