

fVf 'i' i '
SMS
, EXt RA DRY
'XTfi. a ND. ; .
jA quality DR!
'3 s
GEOEGE has been appointed by ROYAL
LETTERS PATENT Special Purveyors of
TIE B, ail
of ms.
REPRESENTATIVE EOR AUSTRALASIA:
R. H. BLACKWELL, William Street, Melbourne;
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES :
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
fas
akt
eminent physician's report.
154 COLLINS S’ EAST
MELBOURNE
-V
Ao^l,
<2 ClsL*L*^o~y
'Qs(7~ °i/S.
(Jij/ / C Y' 4. f/AAy Cry^-cAj, %r- .
< ' t -v,_ e yj^i^Ay~
‘C J?/ *Jo *L
‘ <L^¥ /O-V-ysU’ A-
*Cy J?/ fci Y>
- c-~ A<. c/\*~, ■ t ll
S 6c2 - “ <
/ ' //- _
y ■ 4<3 &.
' 7’ i °'^ e^t -7 <V-/c/ic- c/
l -'u* / '
/ ■ j
°"''< r Aj y -& <Ly /' L enn~
ASI <
;7 ->
A Few Facts about the “GOULET CHAMPAGNE.’
The only Wine used at the Coronation of the CZAR OF
RUSSIA, when 6000 bottles were consumed.
By Special Appointment to the King of the Netherlands.
The Leading Brand in America.
Head of the list at all London Hotels.
The only Wine used on the occasion of the Great Inter-
national Yacht Pace, between the Genesta and Puritan.
IK (MET CM
CAN NOW BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS IN SYDNEY,
IN MAGNTJMB, QUARTS, PINTS, and HALF-PINTS.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nlckel-plafsd SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fcc.
Braes and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing.
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting
of every description.
BOULTON’S "FLUBH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATBK-WASTB
PREVENTERS, Ac.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUA3LE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Doing absolutely *• all Cocoa.’’ with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened jet weak* ntd with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp ;oniul to a breakfast cup costiDg less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the beet Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated ferm. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort In tbe Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., ss. 6d., &c.
Wholesale by the Bole Proprietors,
SCHWIIIZEB & CO., 10 AD&H-STHSBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
OHGANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE
ft
BRUCE ft MASSEY,
197 Pitt-st p Sydney.
F. JE&. LARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Bcsrs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDB, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS cf BRANDIEB, PORTS, SHERRIES. CLARETS, and CHAM-
PA GNE3, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A triel will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. 0F” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, ana delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
I*. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case :
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WINE,
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LAP KIR, Whohsa/e & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer $
George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
reshin!
Genuine^
Economical
I
l 1 t.conomicai
Cocoa
Makers to the Quee
n
CALLAGHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 BEORGE STREET.
er~ WEDDINGS. BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCHOTT «$& GO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
VST LAKGBST STOCK Tn THE COLONIES.
KEESHAN’S
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KINO STREET, SIDNEY.
T
HIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Pest and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tram wav
Superior Acooramod: ton for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Rnfriip
aost Comfortable and «. ommodious Private Bar in the city.
The most
107 Pitt- street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER,
|mr LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS fOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
m
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. 0. CHALMERS. B. G. WATKIN^
GENERAL IRONMONGERS’
IRON, EMAIL iii MEIET
Importers ol
K„ E: to?fsand Requisites, wood-working }&00
C °N T M CTORB ’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMS®
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUII' I)BiW
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IBON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWABB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERT
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BflftCfl
r- _ • 1
Oi
iiMCR
GINBS
4
ZONTAL
pumps’ “ s ..|
B&atf
team S
-n«r;
j AT BN ?.
*oJ»
£&SBO*
jOICKSiI^* 8, ‘
Price List* and Catalogues furnished on application*
ROBERTS, CHAIiMBRS, & CO*
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Oflloc
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, . 051)^
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
SYDNEY:
- H GRACJiOHOROH STUR®* 1
Alex. Borthwick. ni as f
WALLPAPER, PAINT, Ac. °
2©± Q-eorp* <2S"n'i
e-st.,
OFFORD & CO,’S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Stre et
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE*
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayt- n’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Can tb a rides and Russian Bear's
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2j. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & GO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
IWHII
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
//* Of***
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
V AT
lowest cost:
Nf 5
CP*
A" 0 ,
ai*
*«<
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUI
ESTIMATED FOR _
ROBERT COOPER
SOLE
Sydney:
1, PITT STREET.
a df
iff;
a iSlaaln bo found in the - gfr*
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of W**!j 0 f r
Lost Manhood, MeMjioiuiency. &o '.„i e d» 1
this book will be sent post free, B '
penny stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO..
Sydney Wjgjjfc 0f
70 Hunter-8W U


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 157-N«w Sorias.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1886.
3Prlo«—Qi.
The Right to Self-Government.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1886.
While Ireland is striving to obtain from
the Imperial Parliament the power of
managing her own internal affairs, a similar
effort for a like end is being made by the
Northern districts of Queensland. And, al-
though in the one case it is a ptaoeable re-
volt from Imperial, and in the other from
colonial, control, the main reasons which
prompt the desire for autonomy are sub-
stantially similar, notwithstanding the fact
that with Ireland racial jealousy and a
national heirloom of hatred add shrillness
and bitterness to the cry for Home Rule. In
either instance the chief grievances alleged
have their rise in the different conditions
and oircumstances of the country inhabited
by the dissatisfied minority, who on acoount
of the fewness of their representatives are
unable to enforce their claims for what they
believe to be justice. Ireland has recently
gained by fortuitous means a large measure
of power in the Counoils of Great Britain,
but previously had been, as North Queens-
land now is, practically impotent to direct
or even influence the course of legislation
for the relief of her necessities or the en-
hancement of her prosperity. Nor,
in either oase, are the majority of mem-
bers in the central Assembly com-
petent criticsj'of the character or need of
measures dealing with the circumstances of
the distant districts. With regard, therefore,
to enactments peculiarly affeoting Ireland
or Tropical Queensland the knowledge has
usually been on one side in the divisions in
the House, and the majority of votes on the
other. This is generally the result when the
same tribunal endeavours to legislate for
two countries or districts which are widely
different in conditions, either natural or arti-
ficial, and which are, consequently, possessed
of separate, or conflicting interests. It is the
appreciation of fact which leads to the
adoption of such a policy of decentralisation
in dealing with territorial and municipal
matters, as Mr. Gladstone has provided for
the solution of the Irish question, and pro-
poses also to apply to Scotland and Wales.
In former ages, when the sword was almost
the sole arbiter of political strife, such con-
cessions of Home Rule would have been
deemed equivalent to a renunciation of all
State authority, but a more advanced
conception of the theory and purposes of
Government recognises the fact that the
unity of the State may, under certain cir-
cumstances, be best served by localisation of
municipal legislation.
* * *
The two main causes which may warrant
legislative divoroe, are distance, and an
enduring oonfliot of policies which estranges
the representatives of the minority, making
them permanently opposed to their fellow
legislators. In the latter case the Par-
lament becomes the arena of a per-
petual struggle of the impotent mi-
nority of representatives with their too
numerous antagonists. Nor is it in such
oase a oonfliot of principles, for principles
must neoessarily be based upon some recog-
nised and national foundation. Tories and
Radicals may be as far apart as the Poles,
yet the political creeds which guide them
in notion spring from a common and
acknowledged fountain. These contending
parties ean oppose dootrine to doctrine
without affecting the homogenous character
whioh is essential to the usefulness of the
Assembly containing them. And single
Tories may be converted to Radical views,
and yet represent their constituencies and
countries. But no suoh conversion is pos-
eible to a Parnellite. He may profess party
principles and support party measures, but
whatever political creed he may follow, he
must, if he would carry out the wishes of his
constituents, be a Parnellite first, and make
everything else subserve this greater allegi-
ance. He is therefore a mere delegate. Eleoted
to discuss with others the business of the
Empire, he is forced by the exigencies of
the situation to subordinate the welfare of
the whole Empire to the desire of that small
part of it which he represents. Such an
abuse of the spirit of the Constitution is
fraught with danger to the kingdom. The
Irish party in the House of Commons may
sometimes fortuitously assist the course of
legislation, but such assistance must be the
exception. It is no benefit then to the
kingdom that the quasi-foreigners should
HON. NICHOLAS J. BROWN,
Tasmanian Minister of Lands and Works.
be in the Parliament of England. On the
other hand, Ireland does not desire that they
should be there, and it is reasonably certain
that Home Rule would have been granted
long ago had not England feared that revo-
lution disastrous to English interests, rather
than reform, would have been the conse-
quenoe of establishing a Parliament in
College Green.
* * *
The North Queensland member is, to a
great extent, in the same anomalous posi-
tion. He is less a unit in the legislative
body, than a delegate sent to strive in a
hopeless struggle with the Southern repre-
sentatives. He is not a councillor for the
whole colony, but a delegate lor his own
portion of it. This is a direct violation of
the spirit of representative Government.
And no method of reconciliation of the op-
posing factions is possible, for the contest
arises out of the exclusive and particular
natural endowments of the two portions of
the colony. No compromise, if even the South
were willing to give way, could effeot a
union of policies, and the majority are
naturally determined that their will shall
prevail. So long, therefore, as the present
legislative system prevails in Queensland,
will the delegates of the North be found in
a hopeless minority whenever their desires
are brought into direct conflict with the
policy of the South.
* * *
The question of the rights of a minority
intrudes itself here. The Parnellites, as also
the North Queensland members, represent
constituencies, in the aggregate far inferior
to the sum of the other electorates return-
ing members to Parliament. In either case,
the representation is fairly proportionate to
the population of the dissatisfied districts.
Yet it is evident that when the aims of
England and Ireland, or of North and South
Queensland, come into direct conflict, the
representation of the smaller community is
vox et preterea nihil a mere advocacy
of a question which the opposing party must
decide. Such representation merely puts
the seal of law upon the rule of despotism.
The aims and aspirations of one people are
by constitutional means left to the arbitra-
ment of a people foreign to them in social
conditions as in sentiment. Yet to allow
the Toice of the minority to prevail would
he to subvert natural equity and defeat all
the ends of Government. The solution of
the problem will be found in the peculiar
circumstances of the cases to which it may
be applied, and is grounded on the maxim
that there is “ a remedy for every wrong.”
If the minority have the constitutional
remedy in their own hands, although they
may never be able to use it effectually,
they dan have no just ground of com-
plaint. A familiar instance of suoh a
case is found in the position of the teeto-
tallers of the community. They are ag-
grieved because liquor is manufactured
and sold under State supervision. But they
are not without a remedy. If by the elo-
quence of their advocates and the entioing
rotundity of their apostles, they oould per-
suade all men to abjure intoxicants, the
grievance would be removed, for the mino-
rity of to-day would be converted into a
majority, and a lemonade and tea T6fjiM6 be
introduced. That the remedy has hitherto
been unavailing to remove the grievance is
due to its weakness, not to its non-exist-
ence. But when the opportunity of righting
the wrong rests with those by whom the
wrong is done, it must be allowed that an
act of oppression is being committed under
the sanction of the Constitution. Suoh has
been the oase with Ireland. No eloquent
advocacy of their olaims could enable the
Irish to persuade their masters in the larger
island to become partisans of that oause
which evident interest, national prejudice,
and convictions resulting from these influ-
ences, urged them to vigorously oppose. It
was consideration of their own interests
which induced the great body of English-
men to oppose the concession of Home Rule
in the past, and it is possibly a similar con-
sideration which now seems to have plaoed
the enfranchisement of Ireland within mea-
surable distance of accomplishment. Had
England a few years ago tried concession
instead of coercion, the Irish would not
have been able to inaugurate the national
strike against landlordism which has done so
much to pave the way for the introduction
of the Gladstone proposals. An aot of
national justice would have obviated the
necessity of what is generally regarded in
England as a national sacrifice.
* * *
A similar want of generosity on the part
of a majority has led to the demand made
by Northern Queensland for Territorial
Separation. As we have pointed out, her
complaints are substantially similar to those
of Ireland, in that there is an enduring con-
flict of interests in the Brisbane Parliament,
and the North being represented by a
minority is unable to effect the deßired re-
forms. The remedy is in the hands of those
who are foreign in interest and conditions,
and are ignorant of the wants and circum-
stances of the Northern districts. And this
divergence of policy will increase with time
and growth the of the colony. Where there
is legislative oppression now, there will be
constitutional tyranny in the future. One
of the factors of discord undoubtedly will
be the Chinese question, whioh is an illus-
tration of the opposing views of the North
and South. In the latter region the China-
man is regarded as a harmless and useful
citizen; he will work for low wages, and he
helps to Keep down the price of cabbages.
The South is rather inclined to weloome
him, and would certainly be unwilling to
keep him out altogether. But it is
different in the auriferous North. There
the Mongolian is detested, despised, and
when he and his fellows gather themselves
together in armies he is absolutely feared.
In a few years the North will rise in anger
and say that the leprous Mongolians shall
no longer be allowed to bripg in disease and
take away gold from the land. If the North,


then, is independent of tbe South, there will
be no difficulty in shutting out the Chinese,
but if the colony is united, as now, there will
be a oontest begun in anger, and ending in
oppression, that will add to the bitterness
whioh already rankles through the North.
And this, the Chinese question, is only of a
hundred upon whioh North and South must
ever differ. It would be far better that
that separation should oome now when the
two portions can part in peace than that it
should be postponed to a period when fierce
hatred shall have risen to make the two
sections enemies rather than rivals. The
North has more than twice as many inhabi-
tants as were in the whole of Queensland
when that colony separated from New South
Wales: it has territory sufficient to exercise
all the energies of a local Parliament, and it
has resources enough to give it a very large
share of material prosperity. The two por-
tions of the present colony pursuing by
means of their Parliaments, the policy best
suited to each could ensure much greater
prosperity for their inhabitants than can be
hoped for in the present Assembly whose
work is impeded by the jealousy and
opposition of its two distinct sets of repre-
sentatives.
# * *
The element of distanoe is also to be con-
sidered in this question. It is a great disad-
vantage to the North to be so far removed
from the oentre of administration, that
local wants and conditions are not fairly
understood, but a greater loss is conse-
quent upon the fact that those who would
represent the distant electorates must be
men, if Northern residents, who are rich
enough to give their whole time to Legisla-
tive labours. This necessarily limits the
choice of representatives, and sometimes it
happens that candidates from the South
have to be sent down to represent Northern
constituencies; candidates whose sentiments
are alien to those which animate their con-
stituents ; and candidates whose presence in
the Assembly only assists to bind down
more securely the Strong Man of the North,
that the voracious Vampire of the South
may suck out his very heart’s blood.
Frince and Philosopher.
They are not naturally associated, but were
brought together by a couple of paragraphs in a
Sydney print the other day:—“The Prince [the
Prince of Wales] is in sore dilemma owing to his
great tendency to obesity; his physicians have
ordered him to abstain from all wines and malt
liquors—to eat nothing but dry toast and the lean
portions of mutton chops. Much sympathy is felt
for His Royal Highness, as he is just now com-
pelled to aocept the magnificent hospitalities of
Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild.” This of the
Prince, and just below of the philosopher:—“Pro-
fessor Tyndall is dying of sleeplessness.” No
comment, no sympathy. The philosopher is dying.
Kismet 1 We all must die. But will you, reader,
try to let out the natural mind that is in you in this
matter, to out yourself adrift from prejudice, from
a little habitual reverence, perhaps ? Will you let us
help you with one of these sabre thrusts of Saxon
speech which are useful and pardonable in cases
of emergency i This is it. The Prince is in danger
of dying of fat; the philosopher is dying of brains.
Think of it now. Think of all the breeding,
the habit, the labour, which have produced
these conditions. The Prince, poor fellow, can-
not help bis fat. All the strains that meet and
mingle in his blood are more or less oorrupt, and
somewhere, like a knot in a varicose vein, you may
flndlneaoh one of them a shocking and fearful
example. a m m
PIiANTAGENET, TUD6r, STHART, HANOVER,
Coburg, it matters not which. We know how the
last Henry, and the last uncrowned Edward
(Charles Edward, the Pretender) died. And a
little study of very recent history intro- I
duoes us to some notable representatives
of the German strains. To the nasty,
old Landgrave Wilhelm IX, “ Mushroom Jack,”
as he was called from the huge growth on
his neok—to Prince Alexander (of Coburg),
shockingly ugly, a huge tumour disfiguring his
forehead, with something bestial in the expression
of his face; and suffering, too, from gluttony,
* * *
The ordinary man with such ancestry as this
would claim our profound sympathy, but the
Prince is In a tenfold worse plight. The mas
taking a new meaning from the old classic,
Labor omnia vincit, might work out his own sal-
vation, might conquer his own doom by discipline
and self-denial; by the labour of his hands and the
sweat of his brow be might expel the curse from
his blood. But the Prince’s princely functions tie
him. Accepting the idolatry of the mob he must
maintain the indolent dignity of an idol, and thus
the doom has effect.
* • •
A too great tendency to obesity, it is written.
For centuries the habits of most of the ancestors
of His Royal Highness have tended to the develop-
ment of the organs whose exaggerated size pro-
duce obesity. Liver, pancreas, spleen, viscera, all
unduly strained, and abnormally developed; lungs
and heart crowded, the breathing man sacrificed
to the eating man, and the working man abso-
lutely killed out. These are the tendencies which
the poor Prince has inherited. Ah, indeed—the
poor Prince I It might well be Imagined
that the Master and Doctor Christo3 noted
some such tendencies in that rloh young
man to whom He gave the advice: “Go, sell all
that thou hast and giva to the poor, and verily
thou shalt have great reward.”
* • »
Let us turn to the philosopher. The “ society
paper ” does not say “ poor philosopher.” Society
•oaroely troubles Itself to sigh for the poor
philosopher. The philosopher Tyndall is dying
Of itopteMDCMt What does It mean ? It Is this;
The philosopher has inherited and has developed
brain just as the Prinoe has inherited and de-
veloped stomach. All his ancestors had worked—
and many of them laboriously—'With their hands.
His body would naturally form robust, wiry, hard;
but in some mysterious fashion the brain-power
was disproportionate.
* * *
There are mysteries in the way absolutely
unfathomable. There is something more than
mere grandiose word-play in Tennyson’s lines:—
“And star and system rolling past
A soul shall draw from out the west
And strike its being into bounds.”
* * *
And the lesser being controlled by the larger half
of being, the brain power, the spiritual side of
the man was constantly tilled, encouraged, fed,
and not in vain. Those who know only a little of
Tyndall know that it was not in vain, but to most
great and glorious ends. If to make plain all the
divinity of nature is to teach Divinity, he taught
more in that way than any bishop ; if to serve
man is to enable man to bring the greater glories
of Nature home to his perceptions, and bind the
arger forces of nature to his will, he was a servant
of a GoD-like strength. He could take little
children and strong men together, and lead them
into at least one court of the Kingdom of
Heaven. Light, water, air, sound, in his hands
became beautiful and comprehensible creatures,
angels and archangels, mighty, orderly, symmetri-
cal, fair, radiant beyond all description. Life '
itself became a new thing. With his great illus-
trations of new and old theories of atomic attrac-
tion and crystalizations, he breathed new life into
matter, clothed all things with divinity, and took
so much soul-matter into himself that his lesser
self at length revolted against the natural order of
flesh. He oould not sleep. He cannot sleep. A
sad and a painful close to the great life—but what
of the waking after the last inevitable sleep ? Ah,
what of the waking? For a death-endingl to
such a life as this seems beneath the belief of th e
thinking and reasoning mind. What of the awaking
of the Philosopher and of the Prince ?
* • *
Just imagine, if you oan, the soul of the Prince
choked out by obesity and fatneßS, a naked, new-
born thing, like the staked soul of Faustine be-
tween God and the Devil; but poor and meagre
and wretched, with its earth-life of starvation.
And then, the spirit breaking from the cracked
chrysalis of the philosopher, rising in virtue of its
might and right, a servant of flesh no longer, a
prince of the powers of the air. Can you imagine
the two together at the gates of New Jerusalem!
or Asgard, or anywhere out of this poor world ?
It will do you good if you can. You will begin
to understand the essential differences between
prince and philosopher; and you will not have
much difficulty if you take one thoughtful look
at the obese prince with some of his prototypes,
and another at the sick philosopher—" dying with
sleeplessness.”
THE CABLED TENNYSONIAN ODE.
“BRITONS, HOLD YOUR OWN.”—Tennyson.
My faith I you Britons hold your own
Who have grot aught to hold;
The heirs of wealth, with hearts of stone
Cling tightly to their gold
While others hold out empty hands,
Or empty stomachs press,
Although lie fallow half your lands
The wronged get no redress.
Show the starving wretch a bone—
Wealthy Britons, hold your own!
Out ’neath these sunny southern skies
You’d fain ship half your poor,
The starving ones whose angry cries,
Now sound o’er town and moor.
“ Drive out from the old mother’s nest ”
But half her pale, gaunt brood,
The others you can keep at rest
E’en tho’ they want for food.
Heeding neither prayer nor groan,
Titled Britons, hold “ your own.”
Know, here, my Lord, each freeman votes—
This right we mean to keep.
Peers, flag, fleet, throne, and blood-red coats
Are yours—the gauds which heap
The taxes on poor Labour’s back.
Enjoy your day, proud lords:
The moment comes when hunger’s rack
’Gainst you will turn your swords.
Loud in your ears, your death-knell blown;
Plundered Britons, seize your own!
Know, “ ‘ Baron.’ Alfred Yere de Vere,
We want not peers nor throne,
And if your ' flag ’ to you is dear
We flags have of our own—
Not dyed, like yours, in seas of blood,
Not soiled in self-sought broils,
No quarrels ours by land or flood
Nor captives in our toils.
* Forage for yourselves alone,’
Australians; ever hold your own! ”
May 8,1886.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Troubles of the “Sydney Daily
Telegraph.”
The position of the Imperial Jingoes of Sydney
has become positively painful, and, worst of all,
there seems to be no immediate prospect of relief.
England is perfectly indifferent to the ravings of
Paton and the cocoa*nut-oil party who would
annex the New Hebrides, and adds to her neglect
in this matter the positive crime of allowing
Germany to annex some of the islands of the
Solomon Group. Whereupon the Sydney D.T.
breaks forth into lamentations, and urges that a
message should be at once sent advising or re-
questing England to do a wholesale steal in the
Paeiflc. We condole with the Telegraph in her
anguish, especially as we notice that the misery of
the situation has caused mental aberration of so
acute an order that glaring misrepresentations
are assorted as though they were self-evident facts.
Here is a speoimen from a recent leader:—
“Prom the Australian point of view it Is the
duty aud Interest of Great Britain to secure every
Island now unappropriated In the Paeiflo; but the
Australian point of view Is not shared by the
Imperial Government.”
How did our temporarily demented contemporary
discover that this was “ the Australian point of
view ” ? Does the refusal on the part of South
Australia to pay anything 1 more for New Guinea,
or the philosophical apathy of all the other colo-
nies concerning Pacific annexation prove it ? Or,
to come to New South Wales, does the defeat of Sir
Henry Parkes’ motion in the Assembly prove it,
or can it be perceived in the three-men- and-a-dog
meeting at a Sydney suburb, when Abigail, to
whom the defeat of Sir Patrick Jennings on
this question might possibly (joyeus thought!)
mean a portfolio, and Bailey, the journalistic
bottle-holder of Sir Henry, and Wilkinson the
Narrow-minded, held forth with a vehemence
necessitated by the poverty of their argument*
and the worthlessness of their cause ? The real
fact is, that the very large majority of colonists
are wise enough to see that their future is in Aus-
tralia, and outside of Orangemen, Presbyterians,
and literary jingoes, the advocates of annexa-
tion are as insignificant in numbers as they
are in influence. The Sydney daily press entirely
misreads the national thought, and judges the
whole population by its Abigails, Wilkinsons,
and— Baileys. But the saddest feature of the
case is revealed by the closing sentence of the
quotation“ The (supposed) Australian point of
view is not shared (whatever that may mean) by
the Imperial Government.” And the Telegraph
can only console itself by sending up a lugubrious
howl, for to say anything nasty about the Impe-
rial authorities would be contrary to that gushing
loyalty which is thrown over readers of that
paper on every possible occasion, concerning
every possible subject, from the motion of Slat-
tery to the call for cheers by Crick. Gently and
compassionately we would advise the King-street
Imperialists to throw the annexation fad over-
board, for it is but dead-weight. There is no
market for such an article in "this here country.”
4
The Scarlet Coat.
The crystallised stupidity which afflicts military
affairs in New South Wales is exhibited by every
soldier who is seen in the street with a scarlet
eoat. That such a colour should be adopted here
proves the absolute servility of the authorities to
old-world traditions and fashions, a servility so
complete as to hold them in bondage even to the
blunders of England. Any colour would have
been better than the scarlet. Which fact is pro-
bably the reason of its adoption. If at any time
the call to battle were made, the very first thing
neoessary would be to fit every man out in grey,
brown, or drab, which would not contrast so
directly as red, with all possible surroundings.
Should an invasion of this continent occur, the
fighting would probably be chiefly bush-skirmish-
ing, and by ambuscade. With the present suit the
men would be seen even in scrub as far as a field-
piece would carry, and to lie in ambush, unless
behind rocks or hills, would simply be to offer the
enemy a mark for their artillery. The only reason
why the scarlet has been retained in England is
that it attracts men to the ranks, and silly women
to the men who wear it. England every year must
obtain thousands of reoruit3 to be victims to the Im-
perial policy of national robbery, and outrage in
foreign lands, and hundreds of noble loafers
yearly become officers for the sufficient reasons
that it is "toney,” and that the ladies "just dote
on the military.” Neither of these advantages
should have any weight here. The army of New
South Wales must be an assembly of brave
patriots, not a horde of hireling assassins
Their battles will be in defence of their own
homes, not in support of a policy of Imperial ag-
gression. Nor is it desirable that men should be
drawn to the ranks by an effeminate love of gor-
geous attire. The man who joins for such a cause
will never be worth his salt when the hour of trial
comes. So long as the authorities rely upon dis-
play to attract recruits, so long will the force be
despised by those whom patriotism would attract
to the practice of arms, did not disgust prevent
their joining an organisation which is ruled by the
combined agencies of pig-headedness and vanity.
4
Which is it ?
Which is it? “ The most common echo of the
day is that the Globe is perfectly right.” This,
under the head of “Public Opinion,” is from
a daily paper which, strap « to say, bears the
name of the Globe. And what is the meaning of
it ? Whioh Globe ? What Globe ? Who or what
has been sick ? We can’t forget that there are two
globes: “this terrestrial ball,” and the evening
newspaper in question. The larger affair has been
in a sort of middling condition for a good many
years. Has the editor of the smaller concern
made some recent personal inspection, and is this
his modest way of announcing the result ? Or is ho
talking about himself ? Is he Public Opinion, and
as Public Opinion does he mean to say of and for
himself, "I am all right,” or "always all right?”
There is a puzzle about the matter which needs
explaining, and if it can’t be explained there is
evidence of madness which should be looked into-
A bushman tells a yarn of a somewhat similar case
of an old madman called “The Prophet,” who
used to go about with fire-sticks at night, and
when bailed up for a reason replied: "The globe
is spinning too fast; I’m righting it.” They let
him pass on that, but a night came when he
knocked out a fellow’s brains with his fire-stick,
because, said he, “ he was in the road of the globe.”
It would be mistaken charity to permit this pro-
phet to meander on till he imagined all the people
in George-street were in the road of the Globe.
whichever it may be, and sailed out with either
the jaw-bone of an ass or an eDgine-beam to shift
them.
4
Waste, Not Water.
Such is a fair and reasonable judgment on that
Water Commission for many months past wander-
ing about New South Wales collecting evidence,
publishing volumes of reports, wasting the time
of scores of industrious people, and accomplish-
ing what? What will be done when the last
sitting has been held and the last report is pub-
lished, when the last expense voucher has been
cashed at the Treasury, and the disrated com-
missioners are thinking of all the rosy times they
have had, tho picnics and banquets they have
enjoyed, the pleasure of sitting: In oourt and com-
pelling: the attendance of witnesses, .the llttio
hour of authority through whioh they were so
much more than themselves ? One result will be
a yery considerable addition to the expenses of
the Government printing office ; another will be
* of yarns the standing headline
When I was on the Water Commission,” and
another and the only one worth a cent (though a
well-informed man would not purchase it at
a cent because it was his own long before the
commission was appointed) we want a water-
conservation and irrigation engineer. We want
the best man in the world, and it does
not matter whether we pay him two or
twenty thousand pounds a year. We want a man
who in six months can make a flying survey of the
colony for himself and have levels of all main
water courses taken by half-a-dozen survey parties
in the same time—who, consulting with the only
man in the country whose opinion is worth asking
m the matter, Mr. Russell, the astronomer, will
form rational ideas of where and when and how
and in what quantity the water falls and also of
what can be done with it and at what cost. Such a
man appointed on the day that commission was
appointed would have had a report before the
Minister, months ago upon which we could have
gone to the London money market without delay
and without doubt. Our commission will give us
a report with which we can go to the waste paper
basket reserving only our useful clause—” you
had better appoint a competent man.”
-» -
Dr. Kelyaack's “Facta.”
Du, Kelynack speaks about Fiji and the effects
of the Gospel teaohing there. This is what the
Doctor says:-”The Power of the Bible has
changed Fiji from a wilderness into an Eden, and
from an Eden into a veritable garden of God,
There are 30,000 members of the church in the
islands who give evidence of their religion in
sweeter manners and purer lives, and I believe 95
per cent, of the population attend regularly divine
worship.” Now, this Bort of thiDg forces a well-
informed man to one of two conclusions. Either
the Doctor is ignorant of the facts, or he wilfully
perverts them. He says the place was made flret
an Eden and next a garden of GOD-and by the
Gospel. And what was the effect of the Colonial
Sugar Company’s operations ? The Doctor means
by Eden the order of Wesleyan civilisation, pro-
bably. How is it that the same order has
not been equally effective in New Britain
New Ireland, and other islands of the Pacific?
Is there anything, Doctor, in the fact that
practical colonisation over-rode evangelical autho-
rity in Fiji? And what an unkind and in-
consistent thing it was of God to send that late
tornado howling through His own garden! Was
He driving the last of the serpents out? But just
listen for a moment now to a planter, a prac-
tical man, who is come from Fiji about two
months:—“Gods own garden! Yes, its a nice
place, but that Devil’s own storm played the mis-
chief with it. Schools—yes; there are plenty of
thatched places used sometimes for schools and
others for drying tobacco, but I never knew a Fiji
boy who could read or write, and, what’s more, I
never want to. And as for going to church, well*
I had 140 boys and they never went to any church
within my know ledge. Did I go myself? Well
not much. Old ——— 's concubines always went
you see, and it didn’t seem respectable.” What
are we to do with the good Doctor after that?
How can we digest his “facts"? Shall we send
the planter away as a son of Belial, and take all
reports of Sugar Companies’ works, terrible
storms, and very common relations of concubin-
age, and cases of cruelty and extortion as inven-
tions of the enemy ? We must do that, or other-
wise we must,—well, say the Doctor’s dithyrambios
are like Shirley Baker’s Tongan reports, some-
what sportively inventive and not intended for
criticism.
+
Who Pays ?
It is the Australian Centennial celebration, one of
the things whioh ought to be—but who ought to
pay ? That is the question. Taey tell us we are
poor. Muddle-headed management, fads of Im-
perialism, public funds sown broadcast in hope of
some small crop of private ends, may have made
us poor—poor as a people. The Treasury chest
empty, our surpluses gone, the necessity of paying
our own debts, and without selling any more of
the State freehold, staring us in the face. But we
are not all poor. We have got more wealthy men
amongst us than the Republic of Switzerland or
the Kingdom of Belgium, and in the main they are
wealthy because they ohanced to find themselves
here. Born here came here, sent here—Devil
cares how they oat here—they are rich beoause
they are here. The •sntennial is the anniversary
of the country that made them wealthy—that is
the one important fact, and if the birthday is to
bo kept with any proper pomp and ceremony it
is their proper business to pay. Let the country
call on them to pay, let the State decline to pay.
Wealthy men in other countries have paid. The
taxpayers of America did not contribute one cent,
toward the great Philadelphia show, and even in
sluggish old England, £310,000 has been put up as a
guarantee fund for the Indian and Colonial. Let
Pottß Point and all its relatives do the same sort of
thing here, and, if they won’t, let the time pass,
and with a record that the habitual selfishness of
the wealthy lower orders of New South Wales did
not permit its proper celebration. There is just
about as muoh reason in spending the revenue of
the country for such work as in the Spanish (and
Macleay River) custom of sending imperial
officers ahead to ereot triumphal arches in honour
of an imperial visit.
A red-faced man met us yesterday in George-
street, Bydney, and abruptly communicated the
intelligence that had last startled him. “Another
embezzlement in Adelaide. A bank. . Again, a
bank clerk. Hum I” “ Well,” we said, “what of
that ? It is no more than an individual case occur-
ring under a general rule. Two propositions are
everlastingly true—all men must die, all banks
must be robbed. To inform me that a particular
branch of a particular bans has been robbed, is
cognate in interest with informing me that a
particular man of a particular family of the
human race has died. Of course. It is only if I know
the particular man, or if I have money in the par*
tloular bank that tho announcement concerns


All men must die-all banks must be robbed.”
*■ But,” he urged, “ we can stop this thieving, we
can stop this embezzlement. What we want is
auditors who will do their duty.” “Yes, we
said, “ but will bank-directors who, by their parsi-
mony, have generated a ehronio disposition to
thieving among their clerkly employees, act gener-
ously withauditor employees ? Will there not, in
addition to our raoe of bank-clerk thieves be de-
veloped a race of bank-auditor thieves ? In time
no doubt, there will be talk of appointing another
class of bank officials to watch the bank-auditor
thieves, but as sure as that happens there will be a
palpable necessity for appointing another class to
watch these. It is at the clerk end the reformation
should be begun. Human nature is human
nature. Retaliation is sweet. You may rob a man
by forcing him up against the wall and cutting
the pockets out of his trousers. You may also rob
him, when circumstances have run him into a
corner and the social system has imposed on him
certain notions of respectability, by employing
him at inadequate wages. There is no use in hug-
ging a theory of abstract right. That man feels
he is “ got at,” feels he is robbed, feels that
he who does most of the work is kept
biting his nails over the barest necessaries of
life, while those who do least of it reap
golden profits from his labours. By the Lord
Harry, unless he is a tame sort of a customer, he
will some morning put his arm up to the shoulder
in bis employer's wallet and clear to a lealm of
fresh sunrises.” “I say,” broke in a third party,
» thiß ia the way I would do it. Every place there
is a branch of a bank I would have local directory
I would empower these directors to go over to
the bank every day at 4 o’clock, or whatever the
closing hour might be, and take away all the
money with them; dividing it, you know. I would
pinVft them wholly responsible. The next day ”
“But where would they be the next day?” we
asked. “ Directors 1” he cried. “Whatl Bank
Directors I Bank Directors! What d’ye mean? 1
“ Well,” we said, “ we know some bank directors,
We’d think our deposit as safe with a clerk.
“ Wh-h-h!” “ We didn’t say we’d think it safe-
only as safe with a clerk.” We each “got”
after this. _
None of the disputants in the New South Wales
divorce controversy appear to favour Lord
Lytion’s theory. The great novelist knew some-
thing of that as of every other question, and em-
bodied his knowledge in a narrative of presumed
facts. In " The Coming Race ” he deals very
severely with the notion that because a man and
woman like one another for a while they are to be
bound to go on liking one another for ever. He
in eiTect argues that man’s affections are subject,
and should be subject, to development, just as his
intelligence is, and that to formally stop this de-
velopment is as morally stunting in the former as
m the latter case. He, therefore, arranges for
what we may call matrimonial leases. The man,
who under this dispensation is to flourish under
the cognomen of “an,” will marry a woman,
styled “gy,” for three years, with the right of re-
newing the contraot for a similar term when the
time is up. Provision will be made by the State
for children. Those who think Sir Alfbed
Stephen away ahead of things will be surprised
by the subtility with which the extreme lengths
Bulwer Lytton goes can he dialeotically de-
fended. %
Tome of the English magazines are ponderously
and ominously asserting that “Discontent is
spreading with the spread of education.” Hooray I
The doctrine drilled into the poor by so many
generations of fat-paunebed clerics—“ in whatso-
ever state ye be, be ye therewith content,” gave
the said fat-paunched gentlemen a splendid inn-
ings. Who cannot picture the jolly old aboots
and friars who pretended to wear hair shirts and
have their knees corned an inch thick with kneel-
ing at their prayers, sitting round the bloated butt
of :t.alvoisie in the dim religious light, tossing off
bumpers to the unspoken beauties of their fancy,
and then reeling upstairs to write soul-stirring
sermons on the loveliness of poverty ? Content-
ment is a beautiful tentiment when you have
all you want, but when you are hungry, ill-fed,
ill-informed, helpless, and the bond-servant of
worthless, idle people, and you manage to get a
little education and see “ how toe trick is done, ’ it
is about time t<* be discontented. A man who
doesn’t get discontented when he sees his children
growing up with no prospect before them but to
slave and slave in gangs to add to the already enor-
mous fortunes inherited or got by heartless
nigger-grinding, is not a man at all.
«.
When young Griffith gets out of Pen* ridge he
ought to be sene to England. Griffith is, accord-
ing to a southern the only native-born V ic-
torlan who is at present doing his term for bank
embezzlement. We should mako England a pre-
sent of a few of our native-born criminals! It
would be Interesting to watch how they would
come on over there —as interesting as it used to be
to Englishmen to watch the progress of English-
born criminals In Australia. “ Here,” says Henry
Mayhew, the philosopher of the London streets,
“ is a tall, rickety youngster. He is a bank clerk.
Eventually that man will become a defau ter.
Three years’ penal servitude, ticket-of-leave; if no
friends, a billiard-marker, and, if successful, a
small cigar-shop keep or. If he has friends his
passage will be paid to Australia. Hal He gets
on there. He begins as an attorney’s clerk and
ends as a judge I” Our colonial-bred crimina s
have, we are prepared to hold, as good stamina as
Eagliah ones. Wny should -ve not leaven Eagiish
society by the gift of a few prospective judges?
It would fill us with homely leelings as we sailed
up the Mersey or Thames in the future years to
know that the Speaker of the House of Commons
and three or four members of the Privy Council,
with a couple of Law Lords and several judges of
Assize, had taken their first qualifications in a
colonial dock. Until we bring this about, the
natives shall never enjoy a trip to England as the
Englishman enjoys his trip to Australia. Lotus
begin then with Griffith.
-♦
Th,k always interesting question of whisky has
crept into the discussions of the Victorian Presby-
terian Assembly. There are Indications that It
will prove to be a very demon of dissension. A
Rev. Mr. Davidson has had the hardihood to
move the formation of a total abstinence society
in connection with the true church, but the true
church—to its honour be it said—seems loth to
depart from old traditions. One grand old
labourer in the vineyard says he quite approves
of total abstinence, but he finds it “ requisite ” to
take a wee drappie before going to bed. This, in
fact, appears to the form of teetotalism which
the Presbyterian Church supports, and if Mr.
Davidson works too zealously in the good cause
we guess he’ll get into trouble. The brethren
have a clear case of heresy sgainst any meenister
who shirks that cardinal artiole of the Presby-
terian faith—whusky. And who shall find fault
with them? In these wishy-washy blue-ribbon
days it is refreshing to meet a body of clergymen
whose bigotry is not entirely prohibitive. Spur-
geon, as is well known, advocates “ smoking to
the glory of God.” We believe in drinking under
similar conditions, and our bottle is always on the
ii chimbley-piece ” in the best interests of religion.
4
A new and remunerative industry has been dis-
covered for the benefit of the London unemployed.
A first batch of 100 men have been sent to Lincoln-
shire to dig, stack, and pack peat at a wage of one
shillicg a day. This means six shillings per week,
as Bunday is devoted solely to prayer and thanks-
giving. It is only fair to add that the sleeping and
feeding arrangements of the men are conducted
on economic principles by the company which
finds the labour, but how much of the shilling is
retained for bed and board we are unable to say.
That these favoured labourers (for there are hun-
dreds of poor eager wretches waiting to be taken
on) never see the oolour of meat— except in the
delioately tinted soup-goes without the saying-
Luxuries, however, are not altogether foreign to
their palates for they get three ounces of jam
every alternate Sunday. Speaking of this truly
liberal enterprise the Christian World gushes
thus-“It is to be hoped that this venture may
find numerous imitations. There is the great
fact (III) that there are four million acres of peat
land in the kingdom, which might be utilised for
giving employment to willing workers.” Think
of it, ye pious howlers at revolutionary doctrines,
who with one breath uphold the sacred rights of
property and with the next breath snuffle that all
men are equal before God I In happy England the
fences and rails of the landed proprietors shut out
human creatures from the golden prospect of
toiling—fair weather and foul—for the munificent
reward of a shilling per day. What can be the
condition of a country wherein the advantages of
such a pitiful industry for “ willing workers ” are
earnestly pleaded by its Christian World!
+
Persons with a faculty for seeing ahead will
not be surprised when North Queensland,
after detachment from the parent colony, steps
into the front place as the Democracy of the
The circumstances surrounding her birth are un_
like those in whioh the other Australian colonies
were cradled. Sho will learn by heart the lessons
taught by the humiliations and abasements of he r
neighbours. It is not long ago since the Northern
Miner, a much more accurate representative of
feeling in the North than any Sydney daily is of
feeling in N.S.W., pointed out that it would be
the business of the new colony to at once assume
the right of appointing its own Governor. This is
no isolated notion. It is a purpose distilled from a
common sentiment. The sentiment was created
by the spectacle of officials sent elsewhere and the
spectacular salaries and allowances seoured for
them. But the nascent colony shows other signs of
marching to a front place in the democratic ranks.
Almost every voice it raises echoes scorn for effete
humbug and denunciation of gilded guilt. Here
is the Cooktown Independent of the other day
“ We can fervently sing ‘ God Save the Queen
without praying for the preservation of her ex-
pensive retinue of German pensioners who are
sucking out the life-blood of England’s working
millions. In the present state of affairs in the dear
old land, the two most saddening documents
which any intelligent man can peruse are the list
of royal grantß and privileges, and the pension,
list, where men, some of them the greatest boobies
whom God ever created, drain fortunes from the
Treasury because their ancestresses were accom-
modating to the sensual sybarite Charles the
Second, or nursed the gouty feet of that garlicky
boor, George the First.” An infant colony fed on
pap like this will never give standing room to the
flunkeys, sycophants, national tricksters, and
national humbugs who have made the other colo-
nies of the Austral group dense with bunkum
loyalty.
+
Nothing in Sydney is so liable to send visitors
away with a fixed idea of its intrinsic littleness as
the minuteness with which certain of the city
papers describe the casualties of the day. Here is
a transcript from a single issue of an evening
paper published while the town was full of
strangers last week:—This morning Christina
East, 25, married, 73 Albion-street, Surry Hills,
received a wound on the thumb from an axe.’
No doubt Christina has laid by a copy of that
paper for the information of those who will come
after her, and a similar end is likely achieved in
eaohof the following oases filed in cold steel
‘‘Annie Fletcher, of Redfern, got a needle in her
finger; George Williams, out his eyebrow in a
fight; James Johns, Alexandria, jammed his
thumb; Adam Jones. 17 Maodonaldtown, bruised
toe, by piece of timber falling it.” But the journa-
list who can sit down and let these things and
their like trickle through him from day to day
must embody the maxlm-pami parvum decent
It is not the journalist, but the effect of his jour-
nalism that is of consequence. This sort of thing
makes metropolitan journalism ridiculous, and the
grand and glorious city of Sydney a one-horse
affair. Two years ago a colonial cricketer who
went with a team to London sent to a friend in
Melbourne a characteristic letter, which came
under our eyes. He said there were no such papers
in London as the Melbourne Herald and Sydney
Evening News. These latter were his ideals of
enterprise. “Why,” he went on, “when one of
our fellows went to the London Echo and wanted
a little bit put in about how stiff Gubbins felt in
the knees until he was rubbed with hartshorn and
whisky, the whole office laughed, and told him to
go and hang Gubbins over a clothes-line. Now,”
concluded the correspondent, “them’s just the
things the Hebald and News snap at, and them,
as I am prepared to tell the editor of the Times If
I meet him, is what makes a truly great and influ-
ential jernil.” Still, despite suoh worshippers as
our orioketing friend, the soul of suoh small am-
bitions is paltry.
To Daniel O’Connor.
Illoquint OrathGr, Brilliant Shtateshman, Proud
Wearer av the* Victoria Cross av Public Loife.
Daniel, we had hoped that —to attempt a faint
mitation of your own gorgeous manner—your
name would reverberate down the rolling ages,
become the favourite theme of future historians
and poets, and be like rum-and-mllk in all men’s
mouths for ever. W© had hoped, and believed*
that earth had no othe* like you. We looked upod
you as an orator sole and supreme. Where, said
we in the pride of our hearts, can there be found
an orator with such magnificence of metaphor,
such luxuriance of epithet, such glorious lyrical
incoherency of diction —and with so much of it?
And we answered ourselves with fearless confl*
dence—Nowhere! But we are crushed even unto
the dust. We are cast down grievously, and sack-
cloth is our wear, and ashes our bed for ever.
Daniel, you have disappointed us sorely. A little
while ago and your name might have stood against
the universe. Now there is none so poor as to do
it honour. Daniel, you are defeated, demolished,
wiped out utterly—and by a nUjaer! It cuts
us to the heart to say it, but the truth
is the truth, and, compared with the elo-
quence of this woolly-headed phrase-builder,
yours has not a leg to stagger upon. He
beats you at every point. He can tie his tongue
in three knots and then talk you into a tottering
dummy in five minutes. He knows more about
Demosthenes than you do. He is better acquainted
with Cioero. He can run rings round you in the
matter of references to the ancient Greeks and
Romans. And more than all that, he can lash up
more enthusiasm over the wrongs of Oireland
while an unprejudiced party would count five
hundred, than you oould if you were to talk on
the subject till you were black in the face. And
he is only a thick-lipped, bullet-headed, pug-nosed,
nigger I Oh, Daniel litis a cruel blow to us. But
let us be just. Let not the prejudices of race
stand between us and the truth. Read the follow-
ing extracts from the speech of a negro minister
in America, and own up like a man that you are
knocked over the ropes for ©ver. The reverend
nigger begins by a panegyric on Irish statesmen
concluding with this noble burst—which, Daniel,
you could never come witnin leagues of:—‘‘The
grave has not swallowed up the last of Irish
heroes. There lives a Parliamentary Ajax
who has bearded the lion In his den. He is
the man—(listen to this, Dan!)-for whom, when
th» busy day is done, and marshalled sentinels
upon the plains of night murmur a melody
which lulls a world to sleep at that enchanting
hour, when the soul is touched by the sombre and
the sublime, and thought is riveted to scenes and
relics in memory’s sacred vault—the heart of Irish
maid and matron, barrister, peasant, and beggar,
instinctively pours into the star-jewelled heavens
a prayer. . . . Charles Stuart Parnell.” And
again:— “Rome is dead, Greece is paralysed: but
the mental powers and moral energies of Ireland
are eternal. Africa, arousing from her sleep ef
20 centuries, demands the reason for the wrongs
visited upon that island.” Think of that, Daniel!
Africa demands the reason. And one of Africa’s
sons gives voice to it. How long would you have
been, Daniel, before you would have thought of
invoking the aid of that potent ally ? You never
knew that Africa was waiting in calm but implac-
able patience to strike the chains from the limbs
of your down-trodden country. Listen to
this, too:-“As the setting sun flashes back
that gorgeous effulgence which metamorphoses
the dragon drapery of the western heavens
into glowing scenes of variegated grandeur
-eventide’s herald of a splendid morning-
so Ireland illumined the world with the hope
of a revival of letters at a period pregnant with
elements of their destruction, and long before the
star of England flamed in the firmament of
nations ” What do you think of that, Daniel ? Is
it high ? Is it gorgeous ? Does it not knock your
“ Dimmasthinic illaquince” into a thousand
cocked- hats. It is our impression that it does, and
very completely. But what do you think of this
fur a peroration “ Let a monument be built
broad-based as the universe. Encircle its gorgeous
kpex with the stars and christen it ‘The Beacon-
Light of Ages.’ Write upon its base with a quill
from an angel’s wing (read this, and weep for
envy, Daniel!) the name of illustrious St. Patrick
Nearer to the stars emblazon upon
it with a radiant shaft of the sun the name of the
hero of Kilmainham Gaol, Charles Stuart Par-
nell. And written upon its summit by the finger
of God, shall blaze, for ever, the ancient name of
‘ Dear old Ireland.’” Daniel, hide your head in a
vat. Obsoure it in a coffin. Throw up the sponge
and die. And this will be your epitaph: Beaten by
a niaaer!
A CHAT WITH CHARLES BRAD-
LAUGH. M.P.
(By the Bulletin’s Agent-General in London)
It was my highly esteemed privilege to
spend the greater portion of an hour with Charles
Bradlaugh this morning. Avery few years ago
had anyone prophesied that I should have such
an experience, I should have laid an information
against him as a person of unsound mind. In
those days, which, to be frank, were the days of
my youth, the word Bradlaugh conveyed to me
something not clearly definable, but truly terrible.
The name I believed to be in some way synony-
mous with the words Infidel, Atheist, and Devil.
With the last of these—the invisible person with
a tail, who insinuated himself into the interiors of
little boys, and dragged them towards the cup-
board or pantry when the maternal eye wandered
—I was, of course, on familiar terms. Infidels and
atheists were, to my understanding, simply very
bad persons who, on Sunday evenings, lectured to
equally bad nersons in the theatres—dens of
Iniquity at any time, A little later the name
Bradlaugh was associated in my mind with a
small well-worn pamphlet passed from hand to
hand at school, and eagerly devoured in dark cor-
ners and behind fences, the delirious fear of being
pounced upon by someone having authority, and
inordinately whopped or “kept in,” adding
piquancy to the interest derived from the perusal
m m »
Until quite recently my knowledge of
Charles Bradlaugh had not grown very much, with
the exception that through the illustrated papers
I became familiar with what purported to be
his features, and gained the impression that he
was an intensely ugly man, with an undue share
of upper lip, a square hard mouth, and a peren-
nial frown about his eyes and forehead. When I
stood before the man himself, another of my
cherished illusions vanished. 80 far from being
ugly, I found him positively good-looKiag. The
lip has, of course, been greatly exaggerated.
Long? Weil, yes; it’s a long lip right enough;
out quite short when he smiles—which he does
often—and it covers white, sound teeth. His eyes
are mild, pleasant to look into, and, full of that
sanguinity and constancy of purpose which have
carried him forward in his remarkable career over
difficulties, and through opposition such as it has
been the lot of few public men to encounter. He
has a big forehead, smooth and unwrinkled, not-
withstanding his 53 years and his troubles. In
brief, his face is strong and tnoughtful, but at the
same time pleasant-tempered and generous.
Whatever your opinions or prejudices may be,
my friends, one thing is certain—you would like
the man.
* * *
I first called upon Mr. Bradlaugh at his
residence over the Diano-shop in Circus-road, St.
John’s Wood, at 9.30 a few mornings since. The
interviewer requires—ahem 1— some little-er-deci-
sion of character-er-fertility of resource, er-and-
er-general self-reliance. These qualities I own to
in a modified degree, and to tneir assistance I
bring some small experience and a moderate
knowledge of men and things. [We don’t want
an article on you, but on Bradlaugh. Stick to the
“ man,” never mind the “ things.”—Ed. B.] I beg
your pardon. I'm coming to my friend, Brad-
iaugh, now, straight away. As I was saying when
you interrupted me,—in oonsequenoe of the pos-
session of certain qualities I arrived at the deter-
mination to call upon Mr. Bradlaugh at about his
breakfast hour when he would be more likely to
extend a little amiability towards me than later
when the cares aad worries of the day had begun'
By the servant who answered my bang at the door
l sent up my card, and in about two minutes was
requested to follow it. I was shown into a large
room containing three persons, all hard at work,—
Bradlaugh and his two secretaries—one of them a
lady, I think his second daughter. I was rather
surprised when Mr. Bradlaugh took possession of
my hand and shook it cordially.
“What can I do for you, Mr. Original? he asked,
cheerfully. .. , , . .
“ Well, the fact is,” I stammered, overcome by
the warmth of my reception, and anticipating a
violent change in the temperature when I an-
nounced the object of my visit, “The fact is, Mr.
Bradlaugh, that, as the London correspondent of
the Sydney Bulletin—the most popular, influen-
tial —”
“ Yes, I noticed the paper named on your card,
he interrupted, (I had forgotten in the excitement
that it was named,) “I know it very well. A copy
is sent me occasionally, and I could do with it
oftener.” , ... ...
He has a most mellifluous voice, with a quick de-
cisive manner of speaking. I judged him to be a
man who has never willingly wasted an hour in
his life, and accordingly I determined not to waste
any of his moments.
“ Can you spare me (say) 10 minutes ?
“Not this morning, I’m afraid. I m terribly
busy, and in a bad temper. Come on Thursday
morning, two hours later, and you shall have half-
an-hour.” , , .. . . .
This morning I was punctual to the minute. As
I passed into the large room before mentioned a
lady in a severely plain gown and screw curls
passed out. It was Mrs. Besant.
“ Now, Mr. Original,” said the junior member
for Northampton, “ tell me what you would like
to know. I presume you’re going to write about
me in your paper.”
“ I should line to know if all the trouble, with
reference to your taking your seat in the Com-
m° Weil.nofi’m afraid it is not, but I hope it will
be shortly. There is my appeal to the Lords still
to be heard. That is in reference to the three
verdicts I had against me—each inflicting a penalty
of £500 -for voting in the House on the Uth
February, ’84. That appeal, if it comes off, I be-
lieve I shall win; but I am trying to persuade
the (Srovernment to an agreement which would
stop all actions between us. What I have
been fearing most is that I shall be made a bank-
rupt. That would disqualify me from sitting, of
course. To pay all my fines and penalties I should
require about a million sterling. I’m trying par-
ticularly hard to get rid of that last of the
Mohicans—the appeal to the Lords, for several
reasons. I sadly need rest, and I'm very anxious
to visit Australia.” _ . . . ,, ,, T
“You would find plenty of friends there, 1
remarked.
“ I believe I would. Judging from your paper,
which has supported me so strongly all along. I
should expect to find hosts of sympathisers in the
colonies. My mind has been thoroughly made up
to the visit for some time. I should go at once
but for two things which stop the way—the ap-
pe 1 I spoke of that looms ahead, and the ciouoi-
ness of the political horizon A general election
seem9 probable in the near future.”
•• rhea you think the ooun ry will be appealed
to on Gladstone's Irish scheme ? ’’ ... .
“I feel sure of it. The political hat will be
shaken up and we shall see some strange things.
I could not be away from England at such a time.
But if the preseut House lasts, I may go in the re-
cess” , .
“ Would you lecture ?
“I should be obliged to You sea T have no
money. I should do no more than sufficient to
pay my expenses ”
“On what subjects would you be likely to lec-
tiiro ?
“ Probably on Social Progress, and politico-his-
toric questions’
“ You are a Republican, are you not ?
“ a red one ” . . ,
“Would you air your republicanism in Austra-
lia ? ”
“ I should be guided by a number of considera-
tions. Australia must one day become a republic
or a number of republics, but it is not my mission
to bring that desirable state of things about. The
matter will arrange itself naturally in time.’
“Freethoughthasalarge following in Austra-
lia,” I remarked, "so that your welcome is post-
tivfilv assured.”
“ Don’t imagine that I should lecture on Free-
thought,” said Mr. Bradlaugh quickly, ‘ it s a
hundred to one that I should not. I used to think
that if a thiDg was true it should be shouted front
the housetops My opinion is somewhat changed
now. What is the use of upsetting people ? Let
them keep their faith if they have any, and if it
makes them happy. Freethought means toler-
you think the Conservatives are likely to
return to office soon ? ”
“It is very possible; but they would not stay
in long. For mv part, I should be delighted to sit
in opposition for six months i have some creditors
among the Conservative party, Mr. Original, and I
mean to pay them.”
This was the first time during our interview that
Mr. Bradlaugh lost the perennial-expression of
benignity from his face. There was a nasty (dwell
nasally on the first syllable of the adjective to get
the idea) ring in his voice as he uttered the last
six words. 1 decided that it was time to go. So I
went. Not. however, before Mr. Bradlaugh had
courteously offered to send me a ticket tor the
Speaker’s gallery to hear the first big speech he
will make. I mean to go, too—if I'can‘
tain that no Australian member will speak on the
same occasion.
A. B. CRIOTNAL.
LoudoOi 36th Match.


Personal
I tems
Henniker has been presented to the Queen.
We really thought to hear that the Queen had
been presented to Henniker.
The obituary oolumn of a recent number
of the London times is probably the most extra-
ordinary one ever published in one paper. The
number of deaths advertised is 81, of which 44 have
an average age of 78 years.
There are still Scotchmen in Australia.
At Coonabarabran, N.8.W., Mr. A refused to
take the juryman’s oath in the usual fashion, but
said he’d do as they did in Scotland—“ haud up his
hawnd, but he wudna slaver ower the Book!”
A policy in the Legal and General Life
Assurance Company upon the Queen’s life was
reoently offered for sale by auction in London.
It was taken out 10 years ago for £l2OO, since
which time £399 in bonuses had been added.
Although the Queen is now in her 67th year, no bid,
significantly enough, was made for the investment.
It would be interesting to know who took out
that policy, how the medical inspection was
effected, or whether the usual doctor’s
was dispensed with.
The “Vagabond”is
now in London. We may
therefore, soon look for-
ward to reading some
miles of “ copy ” glitter-
ing with reference to
“my old friend Wales,”
and “my dear old com<
rade Gladstone,” not;
mention a galaxy
smaller, but still impos-
ing, names. Joy!
From Victoria comes
news of the death of
Miss Marion Melrose (Mrs.
H. W. Emmett), at the
age of 24. Truly as
Shakespeare says, “ It is
within ourselves that we
are thus, and thus.” The
deceased lady was a
bright and clever young
actress, but unfortu-
nately lacked proper
mental control.
David Buchanan
has sailed for Europe.
After he has given the
people at home a speci-
men of Australian or-
atory he will return to
Australia, and will—this
will be sad news to Vic-
toria—probably settle in
Melbourne. He has been
credibly informed that he
oould easily become
leader of the criminal
bar in Melbourne, and
make another fortune
there. J. L. Purves, the
champion slang-whanger,
had better look to his
laurels.
The present Premier
of Victoria—D uno a n
Gillies—is not particu-
larly famous for the pos-
session of a brilliant wit,
but at times he can say
things that make a near
approach to the humor-
ous. Some short time
ago he was interviewed
by the commissioners of
the Melbourne hospital,
who wanted to induce
him to make an increase
to the annual Govern-
ment grant. He was very
oold upon the subject,
and said, among other
things, that there was a
lot of extravagance car-
ried on in the hospital.
Some medical men, he
said, ordered champagne
to be given to the patients
on the slightest occasion.
One of the commis-
sioners then replied that
he, personally, objected
to champagne, and told
the doctor so, but was in-
formed that “it was
necessary in certain oases,
and that it was advan-
tageous to cure a man
quickly and get him out
of the hospital.” On hear-
ing this the Premier
smiled a thin, cynical
smile, and scored his
point thus:—“You will
never get a man out in
that way. He will re-
main there till he dies if
he gets that sort of
thing.” There may not
be much wit, but there is
a deuced deal of know-
ledge of human nature
contained in this remark.
Lady Loch and one Miss Looh appeared
before the Melbourne Full Court one day last
week. They were being shown over the building.
There are about 300 solicitors in Sydney,
and not a shabbily-dressed man amongst them—
most of them, in fact, are mashers. How do they
do it ?
We notice that at the annual 'meeting of
the Pank of New Zealand at Auckland last week,
the “ Reverend ” Shirley Baker, of Tonga, had a
great deal to say .about! things. Just think of it
(if you can I )—le Bon Sans Culotte as a leading bank
Shareholder. Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.
Speaking of the Grosvenor family, an
English paper says:—“This family has been very
fortunate in the acquisition of honours. It is only
323 years since Sir Riohard Grosvenor was created
Baron Grosvenor of Baton, and now the Grosvenors
hold a dukedom, an earldom, and two baronies ”
We should like to know what they will hold in
another 50 years—perhaps their hacs out for half-
pence. The noble house of Henniker Paste-Pot
Heaton will probably hold the Grosvenor dukedom
by then. What a burlesque world it is I
A Townsville (Q.) photographer reoently
got a verdict of £350 agaiDSt a newspaper proprie-
tor up that way on account of the latter having
stated that a Chinaman had told him the photo-
grapher was the son of another Chinaman. And
vet Darwin has told the entire human race that it
is descended from apes, and nobody has ever fined
Mm! This will show vou what favouritism is
If he had been only the editor of a Queensland
country paper when he made that statement the
banana-trees would now be waving over his lonely
grave In the gaol garden.
Says the Peak Downs Telegram ” How
soon we are forgotten I The late senior member
for Fortitude Valley was but three hours dead
when a deputation waited on a Brisbane gentle-
man and asked him to contest the vacant seat.
Poor Beattie’s body was hardly cold when they
looked out for his successor.” They were simply
too late. When a Victorian M.P. was thought to be
approaching his end, the committee of a coming
man approached the bedside and tried their level
best to obtain his signature to a requisition nomi-
nating a man whom he had always opposed. The
dying man got into such a rage that he recovered
and kept the requisition and has retained his seat
to this day. If the Fortitude Valley men had only
done this, poor Beattie might have been alive and
well now.
It is time that Beakdom possessed a little
cerebral tissue. Whv shouldn’t magistrates, paid
and honorary, bear the cost of all successful ap-
peals aaainst decisions in which they have dis-
played owlish incapacity, or ignorance, or sordid
bigotry? A Broadwater correspondent, in putting
the foregoing question, brings under our notice a
case in which, he states, a person named Carter,
dismissed by one bench of magistrates before
whom he was charged with false pretences, was
afterwards taken before another bench, on exactly
the same evidence and committed for trial. The
affair was brought under the notice of the Minis-
ter of Justice, and, as a consequence, Carter was
(without trial) summarily turned out of the lock-
up in ichicft he had been imprisoned for six weeks I
Yet he could get no redress. Again, a defendant
was fined 20s. for “ obscene language ’’—which,
according to the evidence, consisted merely of the
forcible, but in nowise obscene, asseveration that
the other fellow was a crimson-coloured coward!
Our correspondent cites other flagrant cases of a
similar character, and enquires whether the
authorities have in view any scheme for the re-
formation of the present iniquitous N.S.W. magis-
terial system.
While law and sooiety are what they are
many must shut their eyes to the glamour of bar-
barism that appears to surround such an incident
as the following. In one of the colonies—which
doesn’t matter, the lesson in original justice is the
point to get at—a young lady was discovered by
the medical man to be as she should only be after
“ Not for Joe”: The English Political Position
MR. CHAMBERLAIN REFUSES TO TAKE HIS GRUEL FROM THE GRAND OLD MAN.
entering into the marriage contract. Her father
brought her with him to the gentleman concerned,
sent for a qualified parson and witnesses, and
stood by with a six-chambered revolver in his
pocket—the happy bridegroom knew it was
there—till the ceremony whs completed. It may of
course be said that marriage in such a state of
physical terror can be annulled. No doubt. But that
would not prevent an apparition of the girl's father,
and there was no mistake about the way he
handled the loaded weapon. Men are often con-
stitutionally cowards. Such Lotharios take shelter
behind law and custom. When they marry they
don’t marry for love, anyway. Fear is as noble a
motive as any they are acquainted with. When
then the shelter of law and social custom is torn
away and they find themselves face to face with
the embodiment of a new principle, they are very
likely to accommodate themselves to its behests
and live ever after a higher life than otherwise
they would have done. It will be bad for the best
interests of law and custom when it can be counted
upon with absolute certainty that there are no
wild barbaric spirits left in society.
The wail is, still they come. Here comes
on this bright Austral morn as ever were a new
poet stolen from his cobwebbed lair, and spying
out a goodly column where he might, perchance,
be let to have his “tear,” pounced on the Sydney
Mair, and through his glossy hair he passed his
rhyme-itched fingers passing fair, and sighed, “by
Jove! I will, I’ll print it there.” And so Nelson
P. Whitelocke hauled his roll of MSS. upstairs, and
they printed his ode to “Solitude,” and if we
judge aright Solitude will prove an audience fit
though deoldedlyfew—
"... Hence, frail, degenerate man ”
he chips off, and we begin to hence at once about
60 lines down to—
“ And here might Niobe for her offspring weep,
Mourning for vitality’s lost thread.”
Leaving Miss Niobe for her threadless needle, we
follow the banner of Nelson P. until he calls up
Kendall to tell him not to mind about the £125
memorial business, for that he (Nelson P. W.) was
coming down on the waves of poesy with the
daywm duty ”- XP6OtB that 6Very tWB
“ And Kendall, thou, our own dear native bard,
By cold misfortune from reward debarr’d—
To thee a feebler poet tunes bis song;
And prophesies atonement for thy wrong.”
allusion to himself as a feebler bard than Kendall,
for we can read Kendall, but Nelson is altogether
too strong for us. He winds up:—
“ Hail, Solitude, hail I I love thy peaceful shore,
And if within that spot there breathes an earnest
To himi’dedioate my song the undefll’d.”
We counsel our bard to roll up his swag and start
off for Solitude at once.
Tbe fate of G. J. Graham awakens many
.
warm memories among Queenslanders Although
he had as much to do with N.B.W. as with Queens-
land, still he was but a private member of the
community in the former, while he held public
and representative positions in the latter. When
, , . , ~ , . ~
he went up to Clermont, the centre of the copper
industry In the northern oolony, he had not much
cash and was the possessor of a delicate constitu-
tion and little experience. He had fallen out of
the bottom of a pastoral speculation and had very
small conception as to where to begin to climb,
Buzacott, now third owner of the Courier and its
accompaniments, was then quitting Clermont,
where he had been fighting the squatters, to take
charge of the Rockhampton Bulletin, in which
he was to serve them, and the little paper on
the mining field was given over to Graham to
edit. Graham is au iustauce of a man who sue-
CBeded as editor without ever having been a
writer of even a two-inch par- in any paper. He
was a splendid Latin and Greek scholar, and he
used to give the miners as much knowledge about
Marathon and ThermopyJxe as ever they liked.
It was not long before a Parliamentary vacancy
arose, and his admiring readers wisely judged that
he would make an excellent member. He went
straight into the House. The State Education Act
was then the burning question, and Mr. Graham
made the one great speech of his life. At the time
of its delivery, and since, no one dared say whether
it was in favour of or against the measure. But
Palmer and Walsh and several others always
took their hats olf and rubbed their foreheads
when they met him after. Griffith and Palmer,
although foes, put their heads together and deter-
mined they would never let him deliver another
speech. They offered him the under-secretaryship
of the newly-created Department of Public In-
struction. Mr. Graham accordingly settled down
with £BOO and let politics and journalism go. After
a while he left the office and came down to Orange
(N.8.W.) to take share in a brewery. When the
under-secretaryship in the Education Office in
Sydney was lately vacant Mr. Graham was a can-
didate, but an unsuccessful one. The most notable
of his public achievements was that speech in the
Brisbane House. Now, however, he is dead—and
dead, too, away in Albany—and it can be said with
absolute truth that though a man easily set up as
a target for quiet jokes, he was the very soul of
sensitive honour.
It is cabled that when Julian Thomas,
“ The Vagabond,” was last seen in London he was
investigating a mug of porter and some bread and
cheese prior to going up to Gad’s Hill and writing
27 columns for the Argus on personal reminis-
cences of Shakespeare, Falstaif ,and Charles Dickens
—people with whom he has drained many a cup of
sack in his eventful wanderings of the past 350
years.
Mr. W. 8. Northoote, who must be a deep
humorist, proposed recently in the House of Com-
mons that emigrants to Australia should be fur-
nished with return tickets. This proposal will oom-
mend itself to all intending emigrants, as well as
to persons who desire, for the sake of their health,
to take a prolonged sea-trip. But the motion does
not go far enough. Mr, Northcote should have re-
membered that some of his return-ticket emi-
grants may possibly, for reasons connected with
their families or creditors, desire to stay in Aus-
tralia for a time, and would certainly be entitled
to receive something to start them in business
here. Besides the return ticket, the English
authorities may justly be asked to give each pas-
senger on landing sufficient capital to buy a hash,
foundry, a pub., or at the very least a pack of
monte-cards and a gin-oase. Otherwise these bold
and stalwart pioneers may find themselves ac tually
obliged to work for a living. If this idea of Mr.
Northcote’s is ever mentioned again it would afford
us joy to know that returns would be given to one
class of emigrants who seem likely to become a
curse, as they already area nuisance to the colony.
We allude to the military loafers, the swaggering
colonels, bibulous captains, and garrulous
generals, who find in N.S.W. a haven of refuge
from their creditors and critics in England, and
who infest all the clubs, and half the pubs, in
Sydney. If such as these were furnished with re-
turn-tickets and forced to use the second half im-
mediately upon landing, we would hail Mr. North-
cote as our noble deliverer from a pest worse and
more expensive than book-agents or Scotch
thistles.
The dead body of a
flaxen-haired young fe-
male was recently for-
warded to the Imperial
Palace at St. Petersburg
In a package labelled
Perfumery.” Consider-
ing that the parcel had
come all the way from
Paris by slow train, the
label must have been
particularly appropriate
to the contents. But is
any significance to be
attached to this strange
behaviour of the dead
young lady? Can it be
that the Czar indulges
hereditary giddiness dur-
ing his brief respites from
dynamite do dging ? Such a
system of packing off de-
funct “victims” to live
crowned heads should be
discouraged on sanitary
grounds. Some European
monarchs and princes
would receive larger con-
signments of “per-
fumery” than the royal
undertaker could dispose
of, and a court would be
transformed into a char-
nel house.
Says a writer in Lon-
don Figaro “ The con-
viction of Bichard Belt,
who undoubtedly ob-
tained money by false
pretences from Sir Wil-
liam Abdy, does not alter
my opinion that he was
a clever sculptor, or
modify my belief that be-
cause he happened to be
of humble origin he was
the target for the unjust
aspersions of some brain-
less idiots who happened
to be born in good cir-
cumstances. But, what-
ever his professional tal-
ents, Belt was quite un-
fitted for the r6lc he at-
tempted to play. His
vanity was considerable,
and his flatterers, young
and old, male and female,
fed the flame, and con-
firmed in his not too
strong mind the delusion
that, with all his ignor-
ance, he was intended to
shine in society. If only
he had been content to
stick to his studio, to
avoid extravagance, to
refuse to listen to the
compliments of silly girls,
and to bide his time, he
might have become really
celebrated. The whole
truth about the relations
between Belt and Sir
William Abdy will, pro-
bably, not be known un-
less the legal action which
Miss St. J ohn threatens,
leads to lurther recrimi-
nations, and sheds light
upon the call made by
Lady Abdy on Mr. Bey-
fus, of Russell-square,
and other episodes men-
tioned in the course of
the trial. There is a strong
suspicion on the part of
the public that, though
Belt committed a fraud,
some one else made a Jot
of money out of his trans-
actions with Sir William
Abdy.”
Dr. Hearn takes the Chancellorship of
the Melbourne University vacated by Bishop
Moorhouse. Thus the highest secular establish-
ment in Victoria reverts to a lay head. It was
always anomalous that under the Education Act
of that oolony an ecclesiastic was ineligible for a
seat at a State School Board while eligible and
actually elected to a guiding and controlling posi-
tion at the head of the State University. A
university is only the first of national schools.
Everything justifying ecclesiastical management
of the one institution can be fairly urged on behalf
of the others. It is not, it must be admitted, the
Victorian public who deserve thanks for bringing
about this reversion. The Council of the Univer-
sity was left practically free to elect another
sacerdotal head if it choose. The Senate had
exhausted its resources on the occasion fcof the
previous election and had no desire for another
engagement. That which redeems Victorian
secularism from an illogical position is the acci-
dent that there is not at the present time in the
colony an eminent and assertive cleric. The re-
version is therefore shorn of national honour. Dr,
Hearn is Chancellor, but if when the next vacancy
arises there be an Anglican prelate of large in-
fluence in Melbourne, there is nothing to show
that he will not be invited by the council to take
precedence over lay candidates. Until the people
of Victoria, who take such pride in their educa-
tional secularism, work out the principle to the
end, they will find themselves wrong byysystem
and right by accident only.
How about “The Magistrate” With
characters of Cis, the Colonel, and the iposkets
wanting. Its attractiveness would be g/>ne, ana
so would its patrons, It would be something l lK “
going into those shops opoosite the JAmt Stoca
Bank in George-street and finding the/n robbed ox
the sets for dinner, tea, dessert, a/d bedrooms,
parian, china, and terra-cotta statiVaW and fancy
articles, which are generally asso /ciated with
names of Bray Bros.* /


Political
Poits
The refrain of Lord Tennyson’s ode is
“ Britons hold your Own,”—and grab everybody
6 When Ireland gets Home Rule she will get
rid of the landlords. Then she will get rid of the
priests. .
It is coming at last. Mr. Picton has intro-
duced to the Commons a Manhood Suffrage re-
solution.
Tamworth News says its likely Mr. Burke,
member for the district, will resign. The wish is
tTncle Joseph to the thought.
Signs of the times are for the lords of the
times multiplying at an unpleasant rate. Latest
is as the Queen (in state) passed along the Mall to
open the new Medical Hall “there were no cheers
and not one hat in ten was lifted.
The National Liberal League, although
founded by Mr. Chamberlain, have refused to
follow him in his opposition to Mr. Gladstone s
Irishlproposals They have decided by an over-
whelming majority to support the G O.M.
The Churoh of England in the last 40 years
has expended £40,000,000 in building and restoring
churches. Wnat a different state England would
be in to-day if one-half of this million a year had
been spent in building hospitable dwellings for the
poor!
The “democratic” Melbourne Age says
of Queen Victoria that “in the r °h ° f .
Monarchs there is not one of them of either sex
who has shown more statesmanly power, or who
has left a more indelible imprint upon her society.
The compliment doesn’t amount to much, even if
it be founded on fact.
Wollongong is opposed to the cession of
the New Hebrides to France. At a crowded meet-
ing, when the resolution* were paB3ed,the most
demonstrative Wollongongians were those who
did not know whether the New Hebrides were off
Bulli, near the mouth of the Hawkesbury, or
alongside Goat Island.
At a meeting held in London to com-
memorate the Paris Commune of 1871, and pre-
sided over by Prince Krapotkine, comrade Quelch
courteously observed that the time might
when the condition of things would be so altered
that the Queen would have to go to the wash-tub
and the Prince of Wales would have to break
Btones or sweep the streets.
The N.S.W. Minister of Railways won’t
cancel Mr. Goodehap’s circular prohibiting the
formation of a Railway Employ<Ss Union, because
he does not wish to snub that invaluable secre-
tary, and the invaluable won’t eanoel it because
he won’t snub himself. Result: the union has
snubbed both, formed it in spite of them, and
has the support of the public.
Germany gets three of the largest of the
Solomon Islands. They are about 600 miles east
of New Guinea. The largest is about 160 miles
long. We don't know what they are going to do
with them, unless it is to have a station handy
from which their motions cannot be watched by
the AGE and D.T. Tonga remains independent,
with the holy Baker as Premier and Pope.
O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, on the
Ounensland Liquor Laws:—“The liquor traffic re-
quired regulating, but the regulation Griffith intro-
duced smells too much of the unco guid, the taber-
nacles of holiness, the howling and dancing der-
vishes without education or culture, the tinkers,
tailors, nailers and candlestick-maaers
of dissent, who rant out their blasphemies
in the public streets.”
Victoria, the little sbe-Tamerlane of the
South, who would over-run all the isles of the
Pacific, and stud her sombre Hobson s Bay with
the sails of every clime, calmly suggests that
£lOO TOO of the British taxpayers money be spent
fn erecting Government buildings in New Guinea.
At the rate we are filling up this continent we
think we might wait about a fortnight before
grabbing more territory.
The whole staff of the Socialist paper
which urged on the rioters in Chicago have been
arrested and will be tried for murder. Now,
Frawncis Habigle and Co., why don’t you get up
on vour bind legs and shriek against the German
?aoe who it is plain, are as big a set of scoundrels
as your friends the French, and oughtn t to be
allowed to send any representatives of their trea-
people to this great and glorious
country? , ,
Lord Poulett has barred Viscount Hinton
/tjr'nn has been getting his living as a musical-hall
clown, and has lately been convicted of theft, &c.)
<*, from ever inheriting the family estates. That,
however, isn’t the point. Viscount Hinton, should
he live long enough, is the next Lord Poulett, and
.even though an ex-clown and ex-convict, has
the°prospective right to sit in the Lords as an
hereditary legislator and veto the measures of the
Commons.
Messrs. Heydon and Slattery in deep con-
•olave, the last client being gone:—Loo.- Better
have another go in, Tom. What do you say?
"Tom —“ Cert’nly. Been a big puff already. Let s
trv it again.” Loo —“ But what excuse, Tom?
Torn.-” Present, dear boy. What excuse had
ParkAß? Always leaving the political arena. A 1
wS closing tie door of his political life, and
al wav scorning back. Let’s come back.” Loo.-
“Haf ha, dear boy I Called Back. Very good, in-
deed." _ , „ ™
It is cabled all the way to the Sydney D. r.
that “ considerable regret was expressed that the
Won Graham Berry was not present at the open-
Exhibition Now who
missed Graham Berry-who regretted, or even
twvHoaH hifli absence in that vast and brilliant as-
? We ar! getting sick of this cabling of
the importance in the world’s ey ®'L? t nf °J 1 h r „
nates The telegraphic correspondent of the dally
paper's think Australia is a land of fools. Perhaps
he isn’t far wroDg. ~ .
In an article on the
+rv Protection in N.S.W., a profound observer
in 7 the Sydney Maie leaves the problem un-
answered There is always a reason for every-
thing and if we would understand our time w
must t?y to find out why our contemporaries act
m they do If it is true that the impulse of
democrloles is towards protectiOD. there must be
some democratic reason for it. ibis isthe style
of thitig Sir W. Hamilton recommends— truncate
A problem you cannot solve.”
‘fltfe read that“t wo violently insane patients
have been cured '-y being placed in the one cell,
each Vith instructions to watch the other, who
■ was represented to him as being a lunatic, w
he himself was treated as if he were sane. Ibe
pair sat, we are told, from morning to night gs “
< onm passionately at each other; in a week they
were perfectly quiet; and in two months they were
discharged cured. ’ No w we understand why the old
gentlemen °in the N.S.W. Legislative Council sit
looking at each other and
Thus Thadeus O’Kane on railway con-
struction in Queensland;— “The Governmontre•
pai’s work at figures which pu
fraudulently thousands of pounds into the pockets
of the contractors. * They all do It,’ as a contrac-
tor informed us: ‘ the Government official comes
to us, and asks for the loan of £3O, or £5OO, or
£lOOO, or £5000; he Rets the loan and gives us his
promissory note. We put the promissory note in
the safe; the right hand does not know what the
left hand does, and that is the way the trick is
done.’ ”
N.S.W. is hard-up and can’t afford to
“keep up” her hundredth birthday. Harold
Stephen’s motion for the holding of a Centennial
Exhibition has been rejected by the Legislative
Assembly, and it is now proposed that the f?Jokt
occasion be marked by an “ oration ” delivered by
a prominent public man. Yes, New South Wales
is hard-up, and talk is cheap. We hope Sir James
Martin, who appears to have been already selected
to act as Centennial Orator, will keep his voice in
order. Mr. Dailey—who, we are glad to hear, is
better in health—might be in England, and Dan.
O’Connor might have a cold in his head.
At Chatham (Eng.), a dockyard labourer
has been obliged to declare his children bastards,
because he could not afford to pay for the main-
tenance of one of them in the oounty lunatic
asylum. The poor wretch had married his dead
brother’s wife. According* to a senseless English
law such a marriage is illegal, and thus a whole
family must be legally branded as bastards, or the
father go to gaol for debt, because a fossilised
House of Peers annually refuses to pass the Act
which would prevent such a wrong. Another
illustration of the blessings a nominee or heredi-
tary Upper House can always confer on a country.
The Queanbeyan Age says, in reference to
Sir H. Parkes calling the Queanbeyanites yokels
or yahoos, that it shows “ inbred coarseness and
chronic senility.” “Chronic senility” is very
good. It only needs now to ascribe to the youth-
ful patriot, The 0.5., the term “ temporary juve-
nility,” and things will be square. Further, the
Age, referring to the opposition of a produce tax,
savs that the " yeoman bloed of the colony (the
real stuff-blue as indigo) is not likely to tamely
submit to be asphyxiated thus.” When we hear
such language again, we cry in the words of the
patent medicine advertisement, “What is this
disease that is coming upon us ? ”
At a banquet given in London to the
Ulster members, Mr. Miller, Q.C., who presided
earnestly advised Orangemen and all well-wishers
SHORT AND TO THE POINT.
DUDE: “AW, I SAY, WHAT’S GOOD TO MAKE THE MOUSTACHE GROW?”
BARBER: “YEARS!”
to Protestantism never to consent to a Parliament
in Dublin.—tar. Johnston, M.P., said that Orange-
men were determined to uphold* by arms if need
be, the rights and liberties of Protestants.-The
Rev. S. G. Potter urged the duty of Protestants,
when driven to extremity, to try the arbitrament
of the sword.—Major Saunderson,. M.P , said that
Orangemen would neither acknowledge the
authority nor obey the laws of an Irish Parliament.
Rather than submit to any other authority but
the Crown they would take up arms in their own
defence.
The R.C. Bishop of Nottingham’s crusade
against the Primrose League seems to have been
based on the idea that the shades of yellow were
assuming their natural affiaity, and that the Prim-
rose and the Orange were becoming one. The
Tory party, hopelessly riddled, were trying the
“No Popery ” cry. But the bottom has already
been knocked out of the plan-so far as the Prim-
rose League is concerned—by Cardinal Manning,
who has assured all good Catholics that they may
freely join the League Its objects are to maintain
« religion or Christianity ”-to defend Popery and
Protestantism alike, in fact, against atheism and
anti-Christianity. That is very clever of Cardinal
Manning.
“ It is stated in Dublin that a considerable
number of the Irish constabulary have expressed
an intention to resign should Mr. Gladstone’s
Home Rule scheme place them under the control
of an Irisu Parliament.” This choice item is from
Life, a London Tory organ run by a German-Jew
who married a rich woman from Australia, and
who often manages to get his rag approvingly
quoted by the Sydney dailies. It is very like y
indeed that a large number of the Dublin poiioe
would "clear” if the reign of Dublin Castle
ceased. It was pretty clearly shown in a recent
memorable trial that the chief aim of those in au-
thority at Dublin police office was to emulate the
example of Sodom and Gomorrah.
In the English poet-laureate’s Indo-Aus-
tralian Exhibition ode, cabled to Lord Carington
last week, we are assured that Britain will not
saueeze us Australians into rebellion by making
us pay the expenses of a possible line of profli-
gates and imbeciles such as lost the Empire
America. Thank you for nothing, Alfred. Did
vour lordship ever reflect what England could do
now if America had remained “in?” Would 50
millions of people of all nationalities have their
House of Commons in the little island of Britain
or in Washington? On the population basis
America would now be entitled to 400 members
or so in tbe Imperial Parliament, and they would
very soon show that they would sit “ where they
darned well please.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury lately said,
in reply to Bari Milltoun, who designated as spoli-
ation the pulling down of certain church buildings
in the interests of the local poor—that he (the
Archbishop) was even in favour of selling chalices,
the chalices whiob had held the sacred elements,
and dividing the proceeds up among the poor.
That, he said, was the most holy use to which
jewels could be put. There is Communism in high
places, with a vengeance 1 But then archbishops
and bishops cannot be expected any more than
clergy of lower degree to practise what they
preach. Otherwise we should have Dr. Benson
boiliDg down his mitre and erozier, letting his
palace out in tenements, living himself on lentils,
and dividing his £15,000 a year among the poor.
Matthew Macfle, one of the best of colonial
authorities on finance, asserts that the system of
floating colonial loans has been the cause of
enormous losses to the colonies, the profits going
to useless banking institutions and brokers. Fully
2 per cent, of Australian loans have gone that
way. He quotes the governor of the Bank of
England as saying that the whole service the banks
render is to announce the loan, but they take no
risk whatever. London investors would just as
soon subscribe at the Agent-General’s Department
as anywhere else. He points out two curious
things. The Victorian Agents’ accounts do not
appear to be audited, and contracts are let in the
oflfrce out of which the clerks make a very nice
little thing. How are N.S.W. accounts audited ?
From here? If so, how do they arrange about
books ?
The cablegrams in the Sydney dailies tell
us about the Burmese “ rebels” and the Burmese
insurrection.” Where’s the “ insurrection? ” The
Burmese are not in insurrection against their King,
whom the English have packed ofl! to India.
They are only “ insurrecting” against their
country’s invaders. We used to call the Soudanese
“rebels”; why, one could never understand, and
the designation was all the more perplexing con-
sidering that Mr. Gladstone called them ‘a people
struggling to be free.” Never believe a general
when he tells you that a nation likes to be walloped.
They said the same thing when Lord Wolseleys
troops entered Cairo. A man who was on the spot
says he has a lively recollection of the scowling
loots and the muttered curses with whioh tne
Carienes welcomed our excellent friend Tommy
Atkins.
The late Egyptian war, undertaken by
England to oblige a few rich Hebrews, cost about
£lO 000,000 in money. The British army death-
roll was 79 offioers and 1495 men; add the deaths in
the naval forces and the total is 3971. In addition,
6863 officers and men were invalided, so that m
round numbers 10,000 good men, the pick of the
nation in a sense, have either been killed or in-
j ured to get dividends for money-grubbing usurers.
And in the face of all this it is sickening to read
accounts of the present horrible distress in Eng-
land. One sees, for instance, that an old widow
who has just lost her husband and is in arrears for
rent, has been granted Is. lOd. a week by the parish
in kind, and has to walk five miles almost bare-
footed on a London winter’s day to receive 3d.
worth of raw potatoes—which, owing to red-tape-
ism, are refused her.
A Rocky Ponds (Mount Aubrey, N.S.W.)
correspondent writes us under date 3rd May:—
“ Dear Bulletin,— Divine service in connection
with the Episcopalian Church is held here on the
first Sunday in each month. Yesterday being the
first Sunday in May, Mr. Carver held service in
Mr. Burton’s large room. During the service he
informed his hearers that the church was opposed
to the Divorce Bill now before the House, and
further intimated that it was the bishop’s desire
that all opposed to the Bill should sign a petition
whioh he had. A number of selectors signed the
paper, the majority of them not being able to
read—they have merely practised signing their
names. Not one who signed the paper knew what
he or she was signing; in fact, not one knew any-
thing at all about the Divorce Bill, this being the
first time they had ever heard of it. One man,
when asked what it was he had signed, said, abo-
lition of divorces.’ ”
The London Echo remarks that “no one
who is entitled to speak with any authority has
a formal plan of Imperial Federation ready. A
Federation League was started a few months ago,
and both Lord Kosebery and Mr. Forster spoke at
a conference of its members. But neither of these
statesmen attempted to sketch any workable plan
of federation, and they excused themselves on
the ground that to do so would be premature.
The truth is that the difficulties in tne way of
Imperial Federation are insuperable. We wish it
were otherwise; but nothing is to be gained by
shutting our eyes to facts. The colonies are con*
tent with their present relations to the mother
country, and any attempt to alter them in the
direction of closer union would not be supported
by the greater colonies. The future may show
the need for federation; but it has not been yet,
and until it is more harm than good would be done
by any attempt of the Government to bring it
about.”
Mr. Labouehere recently did good service
in the House of Commons in calling attention,
in a fearless and pointed manner, to the immense
sums voted to royalty in England. Besides the
Civil List, amounting to £385,000, her Majesty re-
ceives £31,997 for the maintenance and repair of
royal palaces and other smaller sums for mews,
stud-farms, yachts, and a hundred and one other
establishments. Altogether, the Civil List, with
its miscellaneous additions, totals up to about
£570,000, without counting the cost of sinecures
created for the benefit of a host of noble English
and German paupers. Some of the palaoes the
Queen has not even seen for years, but her rela-
tions are installed therein rent free. The Duke of
Edinburgh, who receives £25,000 a year from the
nation, occupies Clarence House at a further ex-
pense to the taxpayers of nearly £2OOO. At the
Royal Mews, Pimlioo, 100 horses are stabled and
230 attendants are paid to look after them; yet a
stud of a dozen horses would be quite sufficient
for all the work her Majesty would require them
to do. It would bo well for the Queen to forego
some of these demands on the nation. Mr.
Labouehere was supported by 131 members on his
motion to reduce the vote for royal parks by
£50,403: while only 114 members ranged themselves
on the other side. Queen Elizabeth knew how to
recede from her demands with graoe and dignity.
Queen Viotoria would do well to cultivate the
same art.
Figaro—a servile champion of “birth,”
bishons and bunkum—makes some characteristic
comments upon a recent conference on emigration
held in London. The little journal is angry with
the conference for obvious reasons. Many of the
speakers ventured to show the other aide of those
alluring pictures of colonial life which have been
hurriedly painted by Tory philanthropists sinoe the
unemployed began to get objectionable. But,
without touching upon this question it is inter-
esting to note the reasons advanced by Figaro
for belittling this particular conference. It did
not attract “ an adequate number of publio men”;
there were but two or three speakers of “any
particular weight,” the majority being “ obscure
returned emigrants.” From a Figaro point of
view, then, any practical acquaintance with its
subject disqualifies a man from discussing it, and
Mr. Gilbert’s creation of Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B,
—who advocated never going to sea as the most
suitable training for a ruler of the Queen’s navee—
is to be accepted quite au serieux. We are con-
firmed in this assumption by the fact that the Tory
twaddler lays special stress upon the absence of
Mr.Froude—holy Moses I—from this unfashionable
gathering. The globe-trotting historian is just
now regarded as the one authority upon oelonial
life, labour, and loyalty. His ‘ Oceana ’is a sort
of Australasian Bible full of holy truths, against
which the unfavourable affidavits of a million
“obscure returned emigrants” would avail
nothing. The emigrant who returns to his native
land without having drivelled in a colonial Parlia-
ment or grovelled for a C.M.G., ship is a creature
beneath Tory contempt. Henniker Heaton is a
brilliant exception. But then, he drivels in the
British Parliament.
Notice!— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs*
Only sold by Blockings, 143 Pitt-etreet.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
/Erated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt •
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Mb. Db Ooubot Brown* (late Deputy!
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Soinh
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,’’ and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
63 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Strange delusion. An extraordinary case
of monomania came to light reoently in George-
street. A eapectably dressed man walked at a
rapid rate along the street carefully dodging
pedestrians and begging them not to oome into
contact with him, else he would be broken. He
imagined himself to be made of poroelain. Quite
a crowd followed him aoross King-street and up as
far as Bray Bros, china shops, 403 and 404 George-
street. Here the wonderful assortment of potters'
work cauoht his eye, and he became disgusted
with his own inferior clay. Effect: delusion re-
moved, senses restored, friends delighted *
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS^
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-stroet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINI
MECHANICS,
The “BEALES
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Worftholm Sewing Machine,
3513-^i.II-iZEL
The 11 Hapsburg” Planoe.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


ffIHIATBI ROYAL.
JL Under the direction of
.Messrs. 'Williamson, Garnbh and Musgroyi.
A>e3see, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L- Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vinoent.
TEMTH WEEK and Continued Success of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGKOVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
TO-NIGHT, THURBDAY, MAY 13,
and every evening until further notice,
at 8 o’clock precisely,.
terminating at 10.40, will he acted, A, W, Pinero s
famous farcial comedy,
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE.
Admission: Dress Circle.6s.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatlo season, Upper Clrole, Is.
Tiokets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
GAIHTY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
“SHE’S BACK AGAIN.”
Who ?
Why everybody’s favourite,
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN.
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
. AN ENTIRELY FRESH ENTER CAIN MENT.
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. W. Hughes.
Agent H. J. Samuel.
A
Lessee
DEMY OF
MUSIC
F. E. Hiscocks.
Under the Management of
POLLOCK and CUNARD
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
A Success of Enthusiam. THE CRIMSON CIRCLE,
Consisting of Artistes of the highest repute, headed
by that Celebrated Operatic Artiste,
HELEN GORDON CUNARD.
KOYAL STANDARD THEATRE,
CASTLERE A6H- STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dam pier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, MAY 13,
and every evening until further notice,
THE PHANTOM SHIP.
STANDARD SUCCESS.
Wilhelm Vanderdeoken(The FlyiDg
Dutchman) .. .. .. Mr. DAMPIER.
Supported by Messrs. Leston, Boothman, Hollo-
way, Baker, Stoneham Caesar, Marsh, Wynne,
Rosier and Btark; Miss Daumier, Mrs. Walter Hill,
Miss Julia Merton and Miss Katherine Russell.
Popular Prices—Drees Circle, 3s„ Stalls, 23, Pit Is
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
In preparation, “ HIS NATURAL LIFE.”
T
HE ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL.
Lessee and Director ...
Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
.TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION In their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orohestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
baloony, is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7.30 o’clock.
E
XHIBITION BUILDING
THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
Crowded Daily at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
The only Fashoinable Resort in Sydney,
r JAPANESE AERIAL FLIGHT,
The Greatest Per for taanoe Ever Witnessed.
JAPANESE ARTIBANB
JAPANESE PERFORMERS
JAPANESE TEA-HOUSE
JAPANESE TEMPLE LANTERNS, &C„
PATEK’S BAND.
The Most Complete and Novel Exhibition
ever brought to Australia,
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, half-price.
This admits to everything in the Village—no
second charge.
Sole Director, PEMBERTON W. WILLARD.
Business Manager, H. P. LYONS.
Tiokets are for sale at W. H. Paling’s and Nichol-
son and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
Holders of these tickets will be admitted at the
side entrance 15 minutes before advertised time of
opening, thereby avoiding any orush.
Lynch bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
SOUTHERN TOUR.
Adelong—Thursday, May )3
Gundagai—Friday, Saturday, May 14,15
Yass-Monday, Tuesday, May 17,18
Murrumburrah— Wednesday, May IS)
Burrowa— Thursday. Friday, May 20, 21
Crookwell— Saturday, Monday, 22, 24.
Moss Yale, Mittagong, Bowral, Picton, &c., to
follow.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
[NSTRUCTION given every day in BoxiDg,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
eras, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
D
O B B Y N S’ H
Juuee Junction.
A L L,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
r THE NEW SOUTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED',
CAPITAIi, £lOO,OOO.
low Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
:ed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
d UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
SNT on sums from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
anoh, Payable on Demand. Offloes, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
(Ear BIX WEEKS ONLY)
OF
PIANoS
It!
nim co.
PIANOS,
At 15 per cent, discount off list prioes!
ORGANS,
At 25 per cent, discount off list prices!
MUSIC,
At one-third and one-fourth the marked
price!
SEVEN YEARS.
Time Payments.
Catalogues and Price Lists on
application.
mm co.
325 George-st.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, sydneyj
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
FIRST LEASE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
1/
FLEMING'S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
s Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIItBMKNTS,
WAGGONS,
with Side Sprinyi,
WAGGONS,
with Hoe la.
WAfc GONB
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call an dlnspeet.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
512 x
SPECIALITIES!:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire -p oof Paint,
A I bo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOL«l.
Gas Cooking StovesSLeonis Fletclicr’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BBADFOBD’B WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
Newest Invention.— Greatest Novelty.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
DIAGONAL SEAM
COESET.
Patented in England and on the Continent. Will not split in
the spams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follet says: — A novel Invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution.— Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patest Sewn o. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD for Corsets, London
International Exhibition, 1884 ~ . . ... ~ ,
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters m the United Kingdom and Colonies.
sdf
THE REV. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Bojs, past and present, will
be neld at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange,
Sydney, ON WEDNESDAY, the 23rd JUNE NEX ,
at 3.30 o’clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retires into
private life.
Contributions and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take will be re-
ceived by any of the undersigned who rely on a
ready response to this notice.
E P. RAMSAY. Mupeujp, Sydney ]
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter- I
B»re< t, Synnev
RICHARD E KEMP, M.A., St. I
Peters. R chmoi d
E J. JENKINS, wedical SuDerin- |
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi- I
tal, Sydnev
JAB. A. BRODIE, Colonial Secre- i
tary’B Offloe, Sydney. J
Joint
Hen.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
XBriik.SCi.3C
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held dally at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately oocupied by Mr. Kies). Also, sales
Of PAT STOCK at HOMEBOSH and CORPORA-
TION 7ARDS.
Office-HS CASTLEREAGH STREET.
I)apart neat ot PublKi Wor«».
Bydney. May 11, 18*6.
TENDER? for PUBLIC WORKS and SUl'-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Publlo Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govsrnmsnt Gazittu, a flle of whloh
la kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will he announced, If possible, before the
«utles of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into con un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does "tot bine Itself to accept
he lowest or any tender.
Maturo of Worm and
Oat** to whlota
Tenders c*n be
received at
thi* oflRr e.
Reps irs, &c., Courthoi s", Coota-
mundra
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Pater-
son
TiiFB' ,o y,
May 18,
at 11 o'clock.
CoTutruotion of a 50-ton IroD I
Hopper Barve—Dredge Service I
Additions Police Buildings, |
G< ulburn.
Additions L<ghf house. Po t Ste- ,
phens.
Construction of a Bridge over i
Bogrce Cretk on road, Narra-
bri, via Moree to Munglndi |
Election of Btat on master's
House, Eavensworth, Great 1
Northern Kailway. •
Erection of Lookup at Dalton I
Erection of Btation B jidings, I
Cattle yards, &0., Queanbeyan |
Way 25,
at 11 o clock.
Erection of Bridge over Bredbo
River, road, Goulburn to
Cooma
TufSdpv,
Junt 1,
at 11 o’ciook.
Excavation, &e., Screen >ank, I
Pott's Hill, Sydney Water I
SuppJy I
Supply and Erection of Frame- |
work for Screen T<iDk, Pott's |
Hul, Sydney Water Supply |
Tuesday,
June 8,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Delivery in New-
c»stle of Pipps, lor Water
Supply Reticulation, Hunttr
River District.
Tuesday.
Junp 22.
at 11 o’p}oek.
W. J. LTNK.
lEDERAL COFFEE PALACE COMPANY
LIMITED,
? Collins-street West.
CAPITAL—IOO,OOO Sharps of £1 Each.
30 000 Snares are Still Under Offer,
64,000 having been Taken Up.
TEtc viSol PAYMENT as follows:
On application, Is per share
On Allotment (in one month) Is 6d per Share.
First Call, 3Pt, July, 1886, 2s 6d per Share.
Second Call. 30th uctober, lfB6 2»6d per Share.
Third Call, 31st January, IBS!, 2s 6d per Share.
Further calls, if required, at not lessthan three
months, interval*. II the whole number of shares
be issued, it is not expected that more than 12s 6d
per share will be called up.
A commission of 3d per share will be allowed to
all agents securing applications.
Six per cent, interest will be given upon all
sums paid in advance of the above dates
JAMES MIR AMS, Secretary.
20th April, 1886.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TO OUR LITTLE FRISND.
TMATM ROTAii The Magistrate P- 8
gaiety Theatre— 44 Fun on the Bristol ... »>
Alham bra—Minstr elsy, Olio, and Farce-
academy of Music —The Crimson Circle
Koyat, Standard Theatre- 44 The Phantom
SQIT) * .»«»••••••••••••••*•••••**** •••••****
Exhibition Building -Japanese Village .. ..
r<i« Farringdon, his mother, and his step-
„ wor ij twav at the Sydney Theatre Royal
succeed turn. It is au easy thing to
let Vthe test ?.f the tears of a Sydney audience
f'hesood people can be put sitting bacs dry, with-
er I drop to let fall for all the harrowing calami-
recorded in 44 Paradise Lost, ’ by one vigorous
aaaaSlt on their pathetic emotions. When the
tries it he finds the handle of his pump
work, and he discovers
flat is no more moisture at the bottom of
iheVefi So a°s“the emotions which display ad-
miration are of an alluvial nature.. They are
.Aiv bottomed and worked out It is when you
L y svdne? audience a semi-drunken dotard,
with a couphf of policemen in the wings and cry
»I auvhrthlt vou strike a reef that is well-nigh
inexhaustible. For laughing at things of tnis sort
there is in our midst a vein of emotion the origin
Sd development of which will yet give asocial
philosopher a life’s work.
Certainly there was more wit in ‘‘The
primes of Paris.” There were more depth and
sr™ff5 r ™ff h ° a nri height. There was room there tor
thft scenic artist. There w*>s room there for the
tragicind comic actor. There was room there for
the noet. No one of these is wanted much, and
some of them would be out of p’aee, in 44 rhe
»» still “ The Crimes of Paris only
won the people of th, audience, while “The
Magistrate*” wins the whole house. See what it is,
wnen you appeal to a Sydney audience, to ask it
to do nothing but laugh 1
„ *t •
Long-lived mortals—why, a good many of
us have a chance of living to ne nearly 60 years of
ftL-we want our evenings whiled away. It is a
fnrfff time to wait until we reach our depot in the
cemetery. We have even made a phrase for pre-
senting to one another: Beware of the man who
t lana-hl There is a good deal of truth m it,
nearly as much as in another phrase:
SgJEwi of the man who can laugh! Obedience to
poth in j unctions, to the latter especially, will show
wisdom.
** * *
“The Crimson Circle" is now the trouble
at the Sydney Academy of Music. And the name
but faintly describes too gorgeous display which
affrights aad yet enthralls the startled vision, lo
tav that we have never seen seen an array of
tafent would be to do violenoe to our occasional
truth-telling propensities, but we can safely assert
that we have never beheld so voluminous an
arrav of crimson hose. And the crimson isnot
confined to those garments, lor each cantatrioe is
simDly bathed in the same colour. Her 3J*Pon ia
crimson, and her cheeks and arms seem to blush
anonunt of the strict economy, not to say
Hoantine«s of her attire. We were cold until the
curtain rose, but when it did we implored the
Semitic youth 44 on the door ” to go out and fetch
8 -far, and a very large ice cream. The blaze of
Irorawmsoess was so great that twice during the
gorgeous ness £ £ bur ti e d througn the
starile^air? 6 wldoa’Tknow how a thing hurtles,
Hut it is a Quotation, so it must be all right. Any-
how it to be, ’for it is as stale as a railway
refreshment-room sandwich.
♦ *
The “ Dush ” consists first of Add. Ryman,
whe ts conspicuous chiefly for his manly oeauty,
7nrt the lossof his front teeth. Mind we only make
IguessS the latter attribute from the way to
which he aliows his words to esoape ; his ivories
tor all we know be perfection itself, but his
articulationisnot—no, not by a jugful. Charles
Rfinea Holly is generally put m the
dvsoepaiaßKeeding plum-pudding. From thelugu-
dysp *P of.itmie of Charles, we should imagine that
tt-Dudtt'had been boosted into him to quite
u crmsiderable extent, or eves more so. Even his
most'brilliant j otea seem to be productive of a pain
«nmfiwhero to him, for he looks troubled. Ait.
i »*wtmi worries the tambo with very great glory.
Tne is used with such energy on his
Hoais that we are curious to see which will burst
or? first—the' tom bo or nis os frontis From the
U P mo nf hi 4 vairs though, we nave no fear of
?ne latter Fred? Gienvfii! does the ballad busi-
nels with notable etfect-we don t mean by this
?hft the people trot out to “see the comet when
he starts? the audiences at the Academy arenoted
wblSVavSlo 1 ™ iKbStopU. li line u»,o Me
ttme-mjrnent furniture man wnen declining to
wSt rill next-.montn for the instalment that is
already six weeks overdue.
* *
the* circle would not be worth a
BU r fc «r promise if it were not for
tne’Yadies 1 Grace Foltende comes first on the pro
the a rftmeal of the cause wdy her Poor
heartTs sad ” Wo were sorry for Grace, but as we
afi nm Tew tne circle until about ten minutes
did no * « niahei telling her trouble, our sym
alter she had ™ 1 » £ a 3 lt have
P lthy lf T had been wore devious than it was. The
«>•«“ i f Hnran taoTre tkre, and when they lift up
voices m the manufacture of harmony,
w«f«« Constrained to admit that there is, after ail,
weteel const a ff htful in this world than a
something mor del g Assembly-something
no-confidence deoate in t Stock carying.
“P™ H e fiordon Cmard, wno appears (on the
“ 98 in verv large caps, and (in propna
programme) . boots, gives her idea of tne
personal in very large poo applausive de-
Edith Wilson does some
ili(ht o . , popular as the typhoid iever
JflSfiSnSdS and'lucWeariove.who is cham-
at Leichnarai, » £ tbo ua i ve rsa and
pion top-b jot dans use gRm wbich ia
Black wattle Sw*' peore-agement of tne beholders.
? Weil, we don t mind saying
And Louise Du earcbe9 C iaimed us the while
Louist was goingtt -th« is to say, Durand nor
n rtnrmance wltn which sickly pun-CQaite so.-
Sd ad-we leave this show till next ween.
* * *
“ The Phantom Ship,” navigated by Cap-
tain liampier, has hoisted the Royal Standard, aud
t?n 9 t« 11 have a good run if tne puDlic will only
wind. Which is quite sufficiently explicit
raise tne wmu. p 3r f orm auce is
supposed "o begin at 7.30, with an address by the
Foresters in rega ia, but wc are not to be had that
a b SS 6 oSf of IS!S - 5>W. (laid m toe
vespernal beverage of a suburban cow.
9 * *
There is much that is very charming about
SSi: a«
hriflUnTnotm say gaudy?' The ?32S*S£ U a
harenot hixury as ailttiug
is concerned, and those who 1 ke looaicg tarougn
a mass of heads and au occasional ten-men pillar
?“' k
traditions, is brimming « v ® r *“? a o £i e “^ of
have often wondered wnat w uld «« the result or
presenting to a theatre audience a rag wmen
represented neither a leg-ot-mutton-riggea poat
no? a Moorish tower. Probably ‘^s
wrath and devour the actors. We often wish tney
Would do that now.
» © «
•‘Phantom Ship” is a legend of Manly
Beaoh. We oould not always quite grip the
but teat is of no oonMQuenoe. It isi not plot that
pne wants in this piece, it is thrill, and (
we would have received bushels had we not
been engaged during the startling tableaux
in watching the manufactures of the grand
mechanical effects at the O P. side. The
"Phantom Ship ” is weird, uncanny, and ghostly.
I A glimpse of the supernatural, (blue-fire) il-
lumes it, a glimmer of the ghastly adds to its
charms. Even the portly Holloway seems as
though about to flit to other and brighter realms:
Alfred Boothman’s moustache appears as though
tinted with the light of another sphere, and Miss
Dampier seems etherealised into a mere vision or
futurity. .
* * *
The scenery is a thing of beauty, and con-
sequently an eternal, joy, and the orchestra is one
of uest six orchestras in Sydney.
•**•**•
“It’s no use to argy agin a suekcess,’’
therefore n ur notice of Fun on the Bristol at
the Sydney Gaiety must be a good one. Since this
show was last in Sydney a lot of new humour has
been ja into it, and various alterations,
mainly improvements, made in the business, that
now ministers to the rapture of every part of the
house. It would be a fastidious audience that
spurned this medley produciion for everything
from nigger minstrel humour, to grand opera has
its turn on the stage.
* * *
John F. Sheridan has so much the big end
of the stick that for once we concur with a
morning contemporary which gravely alleges that
the piece would go tamely without him. wo
tamely! It would not go at all. It would he as
life ess as an Eaglehawk art-union, or a Sydney
daily paper. It is impossible to describe how
John does it, but the Widow O’Brien with him
really seems to be a possible creature, which is
more than can be said of any other of the
characters, bar the count. As the Stage says
of someone else Mr. Sheridan “ impersonates the
part in a way that few artistes that we know would
be able to impersonate ” the impersonation. Miss
May Livingstone is always amusing whether she
be white or black, and her make-up is such as to
leave it a question with many, as to whether she
is really white and washes black, or is a nigger
washed white for the second act. Martyn Hagan
is the irascible Captain. He is always getting
angry over something whenever ne is on —so are
the audience. Knight Aston knocks out good
music whenever he gets a chance, but his acting
is not greatly superior to that of Wilson Barrett.
* * *
With the help of varieties that may be
introduced “ Fun on the Bristol” should be good
for quite a considerable period, or even longer.
* # * *
Sydney Olympic re-opened on Saturday
night with a new company in the immortal Dion'S
drama of the " Ootoroon.” The audience was not
numerous, the gallery being the only part of the
house which was well patronised. The play was
very creditably mounted and ran smoothly, the
applause at times reaching an octave above the
cut and dried order of things. Miss Fanny Wise-
man was Zoe, and save for her rather original way
of stepoing for the next world, may be said to have
made her part a success. We do not know it
Fanny is used to dying (professionally, of course),
but judging from her performance we should
say she is’nt. When a person has an ounce of
rsenic inside, it is very unusual for him or her to
sit down with a beatified smile playing round the
mouth, make a neat speech and sail off to the
golden shore. We saw a bushman poisoned once
and he died very differently to Fanny. There was
no speech, there was no smile about him. Mr E.
Ryan, as the Indian, roused so much latent enthu-
siasm among the that he had the honour of
being hauled before the curtain. The Jacob
M’Closky of Mr. Gerald Dillon, was not a success:
he mouthed his words too much, and had an air
of melancholy about him, that even the prospect
of the Indian’s scalping knife in his ribs, could not
rid him of. Mr. W. South as Salem Scudder, made
up well as a Yank, but his dialect was very off.
The rest of the characters were filled by a band ot
handsome and talented people, including Dot
Read, Maud Johnston, Sam. Howard, and A. L.
Burton. There is one thing we would suggest to
the management and that is, that they reduce the
size of their programme somewhat. At present it
is plenty large enough to paper a “ three-roomer.
* * * *
The Lynch Family are revelling in crowded
and hilarious houses in their extended tour
through the Sunny South. Wagga saw them last
week, and the counter-attractions of a circus,
a political meeting, and a dog-fight did not seem
to militate against the attendance any. The
climate of the interior seems to agree with the
company. Farlato wears a perennial smile, and
the Lynches are so completely rej uvenated that
the local hotel-keepers refuse to serve them with
liquor on the plea that they are under 16. Ade-
long, Gundagai, and Ysbs are to be plundered
• • • *
The Majeronis are doing well at Melbourne
Bijou with " Elizabeth, Queen of England.” Corn-
oared with the average historical drama, in five
acts, “Elizabeth” is quite an airy trifle. The
author, Signor Giacometti, has constructed five
short dramatic scenes of fairly equal strength
and interest, and has a hown such a tendar regard
for modem English "Jingoism” that if the
author’s name had been kept dark we should have
thought Plain Bill was seeking laurels in a new
sphere of usefulness. Signor Giacometti has not
handicapped himself with too much historical
accuracy as regards dates. We have, for instance,
the Parliament urgently pressing the desirability
of the Queen’s marriage at the mature age of
55 and Elizabeth herself considering the matter
with many maidenly sighs. But this is put right
bv Signora Majeroni sotting back the age of Bes 3
in the first four acts, and making an apparently
young woman oi Essex's antiquated admirer. In
reality their ages were as wide apart as those of
the Baroness Burdett-Coutts and Ashmead
Bartlett. But these little matters in nowise
affeot the Interest of the story, which is
at least as reliable a yarn as Mr. Rusdens
"History of the New Zealand War.” The first
four acts set forth the rise and fall of the
Earl ot Essex; the fifth act shows the Queen dying
of old age and griet for her last sweetheart. Essex,
according to Giacometti, was the only man Eliza-
beth ever loved. It is due to the young man to
observe that he didn t appear very far gone on his
sovereign. He rightly reckoned her up as an art-
ful humbug, and expressed very substantial
doubts about the validity of her title of Virgin
Queen.” His scepticism on the last point—shouted
out to the ladies an i gentlemen ot the Court-led
to his untimely deceaa 3 In these degenerate days
it would probably lead to a royal suit for defama-
tion ot character. The incident of the giving of the
ring to Essex and his unfortunate failure to return
it according to arrangement are made much of.
The execution of Mary Queen of scots and the
d ffeat of the Spanish Armada both taae place dur-
ing tie evening behind the scenes, Shakespeare,
too. is referred to more than once, but greatly to
tne public disappointment, the divine William
doesn t appear on tbe stage. However, as we get
an introduction to Sir Francis Bacon, many people
will consider that they have Shaaespeare s
"ghost” actually before them. "Elizabeth is
presented with artistic completeness, The scenery
seems accurate in detail, and the dresses are out,
and out good. Even the bearing and get-up of
the supers does not detract from the dignity of the
scenes. True, the courtis on somewhat lreeand
easy terms with its avowedly dread sovereign, but
the bes bred gentlemen are the worst sinners in
that respect. Besides, there is little doubt tnat
Elizaoeth was very free and easy at times. In the
title rSle. Signora Majeroni displays her ability to
the best advantage. The pride, vanity, love, and
cruelty of Elizaoeth are artistically blended,
and the performance is not lacking in comedy
t .uctaes. Her death scene is simply immense
The wicked old hag with the crown grotesquely
set on her palsied old head makes a picture that
would harmonise with Irving s Louis XL It is
unsurpaasably appalling. Signor Majeroni is a
courtly and impassioned Essex, whose love-mak-
ing is of the kind most acceptable to ladies. His
verv pardonable defiance of bis sovereign lady at
the end of the third act is a bit of acting which
deservea a better fate than the scaffold. Mr.
Augustus Glover and Mr. W. G. Carey as Drake
and Hefflngham (it was spelt without an H when
we went to school) are appropriately rugged toils
to the gentlemanly Essex, whom they conspire to
cr-r-ush, and the others are, without exception,
carefully apparelled and alert as regards bye play.
In a word, there is about the whole show a certain
sense of dignity and reality too frequently want-
ing in the representation of historical plays.
*# * *
“ Falka,” at the Opera House, is the name
of th« latest Melbourne sensation It is a series of
splendid soectacuiar with good scenery,
end brisk, light music by Chassaigu© libretto by
Firoie. Everything about it shows good form,
from the host of girls to the programme, which
are “toney” things printed after the Leadkn-
TTAT.T.ni Press® on “handmade,” and lavishly illus-
trated. I'ne plot is rather involved. Folbach,
Governor of Moogratz, in Hungary, is promised a
title bv the Emperor on condition of hisproduc*
ing an heir. He adopts his nephew Tanered,
usher in a village school, who is seized by the
Tzigane, a kind o f Hungarian gipsy horde, while
on uis way to join his uncle. Boleslas, the chief
of these festive out-throats, has a sister named
Edwige. who aids Tanered to escape, but extorts
trom him before doing so a promise of marriage,
which Tanered artfully forgets. While Eol-
bach awaits his nephew’s arrival, Falka, his
niece, elopes from a convent school witn
a student, Arthur. Then the trouble com-
mences. Arthur disguises himself as lalka,
who afterwards represents herself to Folbach as
his nephew Tanered, who, again, enters Folbach
Castle as a kind of under-footman. Boleslas helps
to straighten things out a bit by appearing on the
scene with his sister and some cutlery. He is paci-
fied by the denouement, wherein Boleslas marries
Tancred’s betrothed, Tanered weds Edwige, and
Falka takes Arthur, while Folbach discards
Tanered and adopts Falka as his heiress, .briar
Pelican is a fat lay brother, who leaves the con-
vent Bchool in search of Edwige, and consequent
fun. Yerdi plays Boleslas and makes a most pic-
turesque brigand chief—voice and appearance
both good. F. B. Appleby is Folbach, and
gets tne most out of the part. But the
success of the piece is Mr. R. Brough as Tanered,
under whose direction the whole is put on. He
has a quiet and effective manner in the broadest
comic scenes, and doesn’t exasperate the observer.
The name-part is taken by Miss Ivanova. .Quite
a legion of lithe-limbed supernumeraries delight
the oaldheads of the stalls, and excite the inflam-
mable pit. Moore and M’Donald, the sub-lessees
from Rignold and Allison, claim the honour of
introducing tee piece. As there is some talk of
opening the new theatre in Sydney with . balka,
it’s j ust as well to know what we’ve got to expect.
** * *
The first representation of M'Mabon and
Leitch’s dramatised version of" His Natural Life
at Brisbane Royal, was, according to the Brisbane
Courier “marred by the entire failure of Miss
Anstead, who played Sarah Purfoy, to represent
the feline grace of the she-panther, which la the
real character of Rex’s young wife. Poor, good-
natured Flora 1 And they wanted her to be a Bhe-
panther 1 If Leitch wants the genuine article, we
can let him have cheap the address of a Pr®tty
little she-panther, who now plays at a Sydney
theatre. We read that the play closed with the
Reverend North’s confession. Not that Leitcn
had no more to pay out, "hut the performance
had lasted four hours and a-half and the manage-
ment rightly considered that human nature could
stand no more.” This is, of course, sheer nonsense.
Just let Leitch bring the show down to Sydney and
give us a good seat at half-past i in a place
where we can see Frere hugging Sara Purfory.
We’ll undertake never to take our chin off our
hands until 3 a m., if be will only let m see
Mr. Gabbett eating his fellow-prisoners, and the
I Reverend Mr. North drinking brandy—if that saint
) but drinks as much of it as the book says.
•* * *
‘‘Cinderella,” the Sydney pantomime of
last Xmas, has been played in Adelaide for the
past two weeks. “The Crimes of Paris is to be
deported thither to follow. .Phil Back has gone to
play the Demon, and now the T.R. ballet-girls are
left to wail for the loss of Phil’s seductive smile,
entrancing eye-glass, and winning ways.
»* * •
At St. George’s Hall (Melbourne) the Amy
Horton Company is playing in Farj eon’s burlesque
“Doctor Faustus ” Amy plays the Doctor, and
makes up like Dan. O’Connor; and, of course,
jay nil-like, proceeds to raise th© devil with one ot
ner orations. We massed Thucydides, however.
Perhaps, as Dan. would say, the “ Divine effluvia
was absent. Johnny Hall is Mephistopheles with
a bad cold. There is a touch of genius about this.
Frank St. Clare is running the show to crowded
houses, and goes to Brisbane shortly.
#* * *
According to many London papers, Mrs.
Langtry’s assumption of Pauline, Bulwer Lytton s
stilted and unnatural creation, has been a complete
success The prospeots of the Jersey Lily are
decidedly on the improve, so that it is Quite pos-
sible *her visit to Australia may he indefinitely
postponed. Incessant study »ud the romantic m-
attaching to one whom Wales has con-
drceUedto admire, may yet; combine to give
Mrs. Langtry a very big lift in her profession.
One critic, however, says of the uew Pauhno
•• Mrs. Langtry was only too self-possessed, it is
characteristic of the actress. Mrs. Langtry is
aiways Mrs. Langtry. She has wonderfully un-
proved in declamation, her voice has
strength, and she spoke her lines clearly and deli-
berately. but always, as it seemed to me, without
feeling Tbete is no tenderness in her manner,
nothing natural in her emotion and the artt-
floialities of the Lady of Lyons are ren
iiered all the more hollow by an actress or
«S?r£isis
dally: “Minnie Palmer” (who, as Mr. William
Marshall of Melbourne, reminds us, will shortly
viaft Australia), “will give £lOOO to anyone who
will submit to her an idea for legitimate aaverus
fflg that will reach all classes of people, and
enable hereto avoid the, various methods prao-
bv flverv advertiser. Minnie snouia awaru
thlorize to herself, for this is certainly the most
orisdnal and effective thing ever struck in the way
of ads. Miss Marie de Grey is pleasing
in England. She Is piayinsr J® 11 ?- r f. T hJ
Islington, and is generally alluded to as lbe
Beautiful Shore.”
** * *
Business was bad at a Sydney nainor
theatre lately, consequently'the “ k^ost' not
take his usual walk upon the Monday morn ng.
iinft nf tbe actors employed interviewed tne
manager and told such a doleful tale that tbe heart
TYianftffßr was moved to pity* and he most
feelingly put his hand in his pocket, and then said
to the poor player, “ Here’si sixpence lor you, my
boy, go and get a cup of coffee and a roll
A SOCIAL DRAMA.
In One act and Scene.
Enter the Duke of Woolloomuoloo.
Duke (loa): My cup of sorrow is overflowing.
My wile has eloped with my butler,
has run away, and my son has committed forgery.
What other fate has Heaven in store for me ?
Enter Georoe Darrell with MS of a colonial Drama.
G. D.: I have here a new play in 5 acts, and
Duke ; Nemesis I Falls dead on the carpet.
by W. Hughes, Messrs. W. G. and
M s Private Secretary company did huge busi
nets during tnetr NZ. tour. The tariff was greater
than that which usually prevails in the land of
Maoris and mortgages, but In spite of this the
piece drew like the chimney of a glue-factory and
only three nights were lost by the exigencies of
through the islands.. ...There hj not
the slightest truth in the statement that Frank
Cates is playing Pantaloon in Adelaide. Eroni
Romeo to the “lean and slippered is a big jump,
and on© which the frolicsome Frank would not
undertake, even to avoid a creditor.. .Rose Harare
had, at latest, contracted to “create the name-
part” in Herd'sFrivoli, at Drury-lane,London....
The Pall Mai/l avers that the burlesque “ Mass-
en-yell-oh,” which some of the other papers de-
scribe as a success, is indescribably feeble. The
chief performer’s vulgarity is as offensive to
others as it seemed natural to him; and for the
rest, a score of half-naked women shambling aim-
lessly about the stage are evidently counted the
great popular attraction. That any number of
oeople, however, can find pleasure in such a piece
is as damning an evidence of our social condition
as our worst enemv could desire "
Impotently remarks theP«NNi PiCTO r ic,
a London Tory -“Mr Parnell's mother la
said to be lying ill in New York, suffers g fr m
heart-disease and gout. Her c indition is regarded
as critical. Without irreverence we almost wish
it had been the son.”
The Duchess of Connaught’s last-arrived
child was born on Bt. Patrick’s Day. The Prince
of Wales writes us by last mail that she was to
be christened Bridget O’Gorman Heaton WUson
Burdett-Smith Beach Trickett Bonnor Murdooh
Deeble Punch Wettin Guelph.
They were members of a hunting olub,
and they stood at the bar of the pub. recounting
their hair-breadth escapes in the field. And a seedy
individual stood near, who would fain join in the
talk—and beer. “You see this ’at,” said the seedy
one, holding up his tile for inspection; “well,
would you believe I ’unted in that ’at for three
seasons ?” “ And did you catch anything ? en-
quired the funny man of the crowd.
Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons, who are
represented by Messrs. W. Balchin, Johnston, and
Co., in Sydney, have been appointed sole pur-
veyors of ale and stout to the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition. What is there about this ? Nothing,
except that we know now that Burdett Smith is
making his presence felt in London. ‘Foster
was his watchword when nunc est bibendum was
the order of the night.
The latest piece of North Queensland
journalism. Thus the old-established editor to
his latest rival:—
Which is a good deal smarter thing than the N.Q.
Potts ordinarily manages to wave at the local
Winkle.
The Sydney police have hanged and boiled
down in about six weeks some 3000 so-called
“stray” dogs—some of them moßt valuable ani-
mals. In Sydney you lose your dog at night and
look for him next morning. You can find his
bones the following day—in the pot at West
Botany.
Amongst the celebrated oauses tried before
the retiring Judge Molesworth, of Victoria, were
the Egerton mine case, where the Learmonths
were finally beaten by Bailey, Williamson (the
banker), and Martin Loughlin (the racing mil-
lionaire) ; the Attorney-General v. Lansell; the
Lamont will ease, in which the veteran journalist
MR. JUSTICE MOLESWORTH.
J. Smith, figured in re some dealings with ghosts :
and the Coady-Buckley will case. The Judge has
left an important suit undecided, the case where
G. M. Bell sues Mr. “Joe ” Clarke for a trifling debt
of £BO,OOO. It is possible, however, the judge will
draw up his decision on this case to be read by his
successor.
O little thing of rags and paste,
O little ghost of gum and glue,
It seems ridiculous to waste
Muoh time on you.
Yet there have come within our Sen
So many of your sort before
That feebly wheezed awhile, and then—
Came out no more.
So many, ah, that did begin
With pomp of half-crown ads. and pride;
Flickered a few short months—then in
The gutter died—
That we are sorry you should jeer
At us, and so inanely rave
So very near your end; so near
Your little grave.
No more. Farewell—for ever now—
O feeble peddling Fashion-fag—
We see the death-mark on your brow,
Poor little rag I
INSURANCE.
Insurance ia a good thing, whether applied to
life or property. No less a blessing is anything
that insures good health. Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and
Liver) Bitters do this. It is nature’s great remedy.
It is a mild but efficient cathartic, and acting at the
same time on the liver, kidneys and bowels, it re-
lieves all these organs and enables them to perform
their duties perfectly. It has wonderful power.*
WHAf’S IN A NAME ?
’Twas midnight, and silence reigned around*
You could have heard a pin drop if you listened*
In fact you could have heard a ton of them drop if
you made listening a special business. Two loving
forms sat beneath the garden wall on a log, and
covered the approach of the old man with the
oDen spots between the trees. The male lover’s
name was Tom-the lady’s, Fan, and they had been
on hugging acquaintance with each other for two
vears. He had told her all about the Bulgarian
Question, and funeral reform, and the best way to
cut a “ bull-tarrier’s” ears to make him “ratty,”
and other delicate topics on which most true
lovers long to dwell, and then he placed his arm
where he thought it would be most required, and
said- “ Do you know, deah, I like the name of Fan
so well; it sounds like the gentle rippling of a sun-
kissed brook upon my ears. I like it so well, in
fact that I made sister Sarah call her new poodle
pup Fan after you, “ Well, I don’t think
much of that.” said the gentle maid, as she banged
the “ funny bone ” of his elbow against the wall
and moved away; “how would you like to have a
measfey oH pood e called after you ?" “ Oh, that’®
nothinl,” replied Tom, gaily; “ why, half tjie cate
in the country are called after me. And for 24
hours after that the world was a dark and dismal
blank to both, for like Sir Henry and Sir John
they were howling strangers to each other. And
they might have gone down to their silent graves
ns such had not Tom once more captivated Fan's
roathetic soul by appearing before her in one of
, summeVeld and Co. F s irresistible, killing suits/


BRIEF MENTION .
Prayer for reign—“ God sav® the Queen.”
The War Cry tells us that the standard-
bearer of the Maitland Salvation Army “ has
given up smoking for the Lord.” We wonder
who smokes for the Lord now?
William Waters, a Melb. pressman, at-
tempted to drown himself in the Yarra lately.
“Dust to dust, ashes to ashes,” and Waters to
waters, or to whisky and water.
The Progress of Civilization (Backwards) in N.B.W.
THE FOORCE AND THEIR LITTLE “PRECEDENT.”
—Fieanrick Mitchell was charged with hav
tug, followed his u«ual avocdion as a driver
at Ooeron on Sunday. Constable Ritchie
deposed that ih« defendant Itud driven a team
of horses on Sunday.— The defendant said he
nas returning from Oherou on Suoday, es
othei wise he would have had to etarve
his dorses, he being in the habit of carrying
his own feed ; he had gone from Bathurst on
Friday, and was returning with his team on
Sunday.—The P M. said it Was questionable,
if'tbe Act was in force in the colony. After the
Season just past, it would be madness to
■insist on teams not travelling >on the Sun
day, for it would mean to them starvation.
The work tec line one necessity in most
instances —Constable Ritchie said he was
willing to withdraw the case on p.yraent 06
costs if a precedent was established.—Defen-
dant was hoed f)3. and costs, to be recovered
ty levy and disirrss, in default imprisonment
in the stooks (wherever they fcould be foonldy
for two baqr3.
We read that “the second volume of
Maoleod’s ‘Theory and Practice of Banking ’ has
been published.” The second edition, annotated
by Rev. Crooks, of Adelaide Gaol, Is In the press.
The desirableness of parsons becoming
total abstainers has been much discussed by the
Victorian Presbyterian Assembly. Until this
question is settled it is not considered absolutely
necessary to pray for rain.
A miserly old shoe-black, who died at
Ballarat lately, was a reclpcnt of relief from the
local Benevolent Asylum. The authorities of
that Institute found two notes secreted about the
person of the corpse, on which was written—
“ Look in the mattress ”—“ Look under the stool.”
They looked with celerity, you bet, and found—
stuffing.
We hear from the Sydney Zoo that the
Soudan donkey preserves his appetite and voice in
perfection, but complains that the nights are
chilly out here. The Government supplied him
with a blanket on Ist May notwithstanding the
deficit.
The young man who shot’ at a Salvation
Harmy officer, in Melbourne, got five (years’ bard
labour. The sentence seems severe, but no doubt
the judge took Into consideration the fact that the
young man missed the oflioer. An accomplished
marksman might have got off with 20j. and a
caution.
Here is a mysterious, not to say lugubri-
ous, advertisement from the Melbourne Argus:—
“ Wanted dissecting-clerk, must be quick and ac-
curate at figures.” We presume this gentleman is
required for the morgue. “ Quick and accurate at
figures.” Ugh!
At an agistment paddock a few miles from
Coolah, N.S.W., and on the mail-road to Coona-
barabran, is to be seen the following unique
notice:- Notice. —Any possons found traspassing
will bee possecooted a cordeiDg to lore. Possons
that kant reade come up to the house and ink-
wire.—H. J. G ”
The Gundagai Times reports that the
annual blanket was given away to the local blacks,
the recipients being chiefly gins and plcaninnies.
The men had retreated Into the forest so as to
study the Times leader undisturbed. “The
blanket,” they said, “we can get when we call for
it. Let us not lose the precious gifts of to-day.
There is but one organ in which we can express
our views In our own way. Let us be grateful,
even if we are black, and read what our brother
has written.”
The Bega Gazette says that a business
man recently wandered away from Candelo and
was found at, the end of a week in a paddock, de-
prived of all clothes save his shirt. This excites
the wonder of the Moruva peonle, who say that a
man wandering that far from their town would be
found completely naked.
One Kenny, a bank clerk at Kempsey
(N.8.W.), has refused to receive a purse of sove-
reigns ou his removal to another bank. At least,
this is what the Macleay Herald says, but the*
story doesn’t go down in Sydney. We are too old 1 ,
too old. Tell us something about a bunyip ora
horned frog and we might listen.
This is an aotual Chinkoid gem from Galar-
gambine, the home of Skuthorne the Mercurial.
Some bullockies planted John’s horse and offered
to find him for a reward. John telegraphed for
the Coonamble police. Bullockies funked, brought
him his moke, and squared him. Four days after-
wards, No. 001 appeared and asked particulars
John did not know the bullockies, never saw them,
could give no Information but this: “Wha for!
Sposy me been shoot dead; me lie four days, me
stinkee, you no good. You no care me die. No
eabee—too slow, pleecymanl” And Hoo-ki-la is
right.
The Moderator of the Melbourne Presby-
tery is a smart man. He has found a holy Bible
precedent for publishing the names of the good
gentlemen who give of their substance to the
church. The old exhortation about not letting
your left hand know what your right hand doeth
doesn’t apply to a Presbytery subscription list.
“It was stated in the Bible,” says the Key. Mod.«


‘‘the names of those who had assisted in the
erection of the walls of Jerusalem. Therefore he
contended that the names of those who had as-
sisted in erecting the walls of our Jerusalem
should be made public.” 0 Jerusalem!
A country contemporary, speaking of the
appearance of the Fabry comet the other day,
says:Looking at the obj sot through the glass
at our omoe it had every appearance of being a
comet” Humph! Only a cometl We should
have thought it would have seemed a constella-
tion at least—seen through the office-glass.
* We were a long time trying to find out
what it was that was lacking in the reports of the
dailies of the Indo-Australian Exhibition. There
was tbe usual long list of the flames of noble no
bodies and “distincuished” colonists, &c., and all
the comfortable dulness that usually accompany
The Labour Troubles In America.
“The Military have been called out, and large numbers of the rioters have been killed.”— Cablegram .
BROTHER JONATHAN: “DARNED IF I DON’T BELIEVE I’VE SHOT THE WRONG MAN. DOG GONE ME IF I HAIN’T A NOTION TO LET HIM HAVE TOTHER BAR’L.
their cablegrams, but Still we felt a want of some-
thing—a “goneness,” so to speak. At last we
■truck it. Every one of them, in referring to the
■how, omitted to quote the line which we now
■upply—
** Peace hath her victories no less renowned than
war.”
The Shroud, however, nearly flopped on It when
It got so far as to say that the resources and
achievements shown were “ peaceful and blood-
less.” Give the Shroud its due.
New South Wales must be commercial
ln tb ® lon(? run * 18 Plain that the people
of Victoria are mere •chopping-blooks for the en-
terprising Nu-So’-Walers:—“ A man stating his
name as Robertson, recently from Sydney, has
ween victimising Melbourne medical meD, chemists,
and dentists, by valueless cheques. He allowed the
attraction of a tooth by Heath and Kernot,
dentists, in order to get a cheque cashed.” Mr.
Robertson, thou hast deserved well of thy country,
even though it boast of men who would allow
their very jaws to be extracted to cash cheques—
even though it number among its million of popu-
lation nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand
nine hundred and ninetv-nine persons who are
selling their immortal souls for coin of the realm.
Tet is civilisation progressing in the main ? Time
was when they drew the teeth of the opulent Jew
to make him disgorge the shekels. Now has ar-
rived the period when the ravenous Scotchman
Robertson gets his teeth pulled while he picks the
pocket of hig torturer.
Over in Maryborough (Queensland) musio
hath no charms to soothe the savages' breasts. A
certain Ca tain Buciting ham, of God’s Own
Harmy, has been let in for £8 and costs for beating
a drum, and a full private has to disgorge 480
hallelujah pennies for playing a cornet without
the Mayor’s permission. This is downright
tyranny. We'll put it to his worship
Oh 1 Mr. Mayor,
That’s hardly fair,
’Tib quite an imposition ;
To play a drum
Must captains come
And beg for your permission ?
If you can rob
Of forty bob,
One man, and make him stump it,
’Twere justice, mind,
If you were fined
Each time you blow your trumpet.
There was, last week, a wild scene of ex-
citement in one of the quietest suburbs of Mel-
bourne, A horse bolted. But let us take some
particulars from the local paper:—“The animal
dashed furiously on. A gentleman was seen to
dart out and make towards the runaway. People
stood with bated breath expecting to see him
knocked down and killed, but. catching the reins,
he gradually turned the frightened beast around
amid great cheers from the lookers-on. It was
then seen to be no other person than Councillor
Mills.” Now, why should the local thunderer
refer to a respectable councillor as a frightened
beast ?
Coopernook correspondent to Manning
River Times says: Several of our residents here
have left, and others taken their places Among
tbe former I may mention our Sergeant Ussh r,
who is retiring from the police force with a well-
merited pension, and going to live on his lately
purchased property near Holey Flat.” No doubt
Sergeant tTssher has earned his pension, but we
cannot keep sympathising with the country con-
stable who has to wait till old age and pension-
time before he can buy a bit r f ground ana a house
to live in. A good man in the city can retire early
in his career, have a terrace of houses, and be able
to tell you the time by a different watch every
day. Economy and regular hours are the secret
of terrace-buying out of three half-crowns a day.
One of ibose who went bail for that in-
famous old procuress, “Mother Jeffries,” was
Captain Coventry, a well-known sporting member
of the Prince of Wales' set.
Not 100 miles from Parramatta-road,
Leichhardt, Sydney, may be seen a baby, set. 2J4
yc-are, who can get through a Manilla cigar with as
muoh nonchalance as many a youth in his teens
Here is a Jewish item which will make the
Children yell. At Wrublowitz in Poland, they
used to have a burlesque Beth Din, with the Chief
Rabbi and the three dayanim sitting, and would
pass the day in asking riddles of each other. A
dayan would ask—“ Of Jew and Christian, which is
the dirtier of the two ? ” “ The Christian,” replies
the Rabbi. “You’re wrong, old momzir,” shout
another dayan. “The Jew is the dirtier, for the
Chris'ian is continuallv blackening him ” But the
best riddle they asked was—“ Which did King
Solomon love best—women or shole< t pudding ? "
“ Women, certainly," shouted the dayans “ Why
so ?" interrogates toe R«bbi. “Why because he
wrote * woman is bitter ’ (as presumably he found
[ her), but nowhere does he say that sholent is
Wtter. So he loved sholent best.” Then the
Rabbi hits them over the head with his lulov. and
they go out and have drinks.
The criminals were handcuffed, but not
leg-ironed, and with their escort were awaiting
the train which would convey them to the country
gaol. Suddenly a woman rushed from amongst
the gaping crowd of idlers standing round, *nd
with a shower of tears cried out: “Kiss me Ned;
escort, good-natureoy, allowed
the kis*ing biz. to come off. and the soft-hearted
sergennt-in-cbarge had to turn his head aside and
haul his sleeve across his eyes to wipe away a
t« ar. Some difference of opinion as to the pro-
per route to the gaol appears t > have occurred on
tbe journey, however, and Ned and his escort
parted company. While the kissing game was on
the woman had patsed a key from her mouth to
her gentle Edward’s, and with this he undid the
braoelet,” and allowed himself to take leg-bail.


SOCIALS
His Excellency the Governor and Lady
Carington, accompanied by the Hea. Miss Har
bord, Mias Wheelen, Captain Wallington, and Lord
Bertie, A.D.C., attended divine service on board
H.M.S. Nelson on Bunday, the 2nd May. We
regretted to notioe that so popular a man as Bis
Exoelleaoy should be suffering from severe
catarrh, and be compelled so frequently to
interrupt the servioe by blowing his vioe-rega l
nose. We have had a oold lately, and though our
nose is not vice-regal it’s Just as tender The naval
organ (observe the distinction) was played on by a
true blue. We never did think there was much
mueio in a man of war—we’re sure of it now.
'* * *
On Tuesday evening, the 4th, the Exhibi-
tion building, Sydney, presented a very brilliant
appearance on the occasion of the ball given In aid
of the School of Industry. The building was most
tastefully ornamented with palms and flags and
wreaths, while hundreds of variegated Japanese
lanterns suspended from the ceilings and walls
presented a novel and picturesque appearance. A
most fashionab’e assemblage att-nded, owing
probably to the presence of hii Bxoelenoy the
Governor and Lady Carington, who were acctm
panied by the Hon Miss Harbord, Miss Wheelen,
Lord Bertie, Captain Gascoigne, Captain Terry,
A.D C., and Mr. Wallington, private secretary.
Lady Carington looked extremely pretty in char-
treuse merveilleuse satin with low bodice and
short sleeves, her hair beoomingly dressed am'
surmounted by a handsome tiara of diamonds—
diamond bangles and riviere of the same werr
worn on neck and arms. The Hon. Miss Harborc
•was dressed in a becoming gown of white satin
asd tulle with natural pink roses on her bodice
her hair done high, in which pink roses were als
worn. Lady Manning wore pale-blue silk trimmed
with cream laoe. and Mr». Maoleay black tulle
riohly and tastefully jetted. The Misses Throck
morton wore stylish black costumes, which, how-
ever, did not suit them to a very wondrous degree.
Miss Enid Macarthur was more happy in her choice
of all white. The Sydney Lancers were not largely
represented, and those who did appear would have
ooked very much better if their uniform* had had
the appearance of hiving been made for them-
selves aEid not for much stouter men.
* * *
On Monday evening, the 3rd insfc , Mrs.
and the Mißses Backhouse, Seven Oaks, gave a
most charming and successful dance, the guests
numbering about 60. Dancing was kept up till a
late hour, and many becoming and beautiful cos
tumea were worn.
* *
On Thursday evening, the 6th inst., Mrs.
Arthur Maoarthur. of Darlinghurst,
about 60 guests. Danoing was supposed to be the
order of the evening. AmoDgst many faces weli-
known in society was observed that of the Hon. Mis ■
Harbord, looking charming as usual, and some o
the gentlemen from Government House.
* * *
Lord Caringtou is away up in the Nortb-
Eastaud is belne boren to death with the address
of municipal councils. Why euit the Mayor
welcome the gentleman with •‘Glad to see th
Queen s representative here H ?) v „„ w . ou ' d y° u '
Excellency like to amuse yourself ? instead o*
torturing him with flabby uugrammaticaflties
about “ loyalty,” and getting the school childrer
to squeak the National Anthem into his ears ? Tms
view of the question is commended to tne notlot
of the Mayor of Frogtown.
* * *
One oannot help regretting the absence of
(flowers, either natural or artificial, for evening
wear this season, Wnat c*n be ore tier than tbos«
lovely sprays of white or yellow roses mixed wi r
ra»i'tei.-h*ir ferns toat w*r« so fashionable las
year? At the 8c« 00l of Industry ball scarcely ar>?
(flowers were to be seen, and very fewb mqu s
el>he We must mention one, though, as it wa
Bo remarkable for its size, ana one could n(t help
envying the powers of endurance displayed b 1 a
good-natured chaperone, who see ed delighted t,-
pass away th*- time uy nursing this huge thing
nearly all the evening.
» * *
Mrs. and the Misses Watt, of Woollahra
have issu. d invitations for two balls to be giver
on tne llib and 31st instant.
We never did belong to the royal navy and
are rather glad of it. for otherwise we might have
been placed in a similar position to that of tbv
officers of one of her Majesty’s ships on this
station. These offloers, wishing to return some of
the kindness their Bydney lrlends had ■howerea
on them, determined to give a ball on •hore
They hired a room, invited the guests and made
all necessary preparations. But they reckoned
without their host. Their chief commander, on
receiving an invitation, said, oh, oertainly, gen-
tfemen; but as you di 1 not tlrst obtain my oermis-
slon I will Bend you off to sea the night bef< Jre the
tia.ll 1 8o now you know your position. iney
did; and quietly went among their friends and ex-
plained tne situation. There will be no ball. We
still say we are glad we are not in the navy, and
under so nighly distinguished commander.
* * *
Mons. Kowalski scored another brilliant
success bv his second concert last Friday night.
The vocaf solos certainly were for the most part,
weak but exception must be taken to Miss
Sftville'S singing of "Peries de Kose6 (Ko waisk )
which is a orilliant composition and -as oiilliantly
sung The same singer whs not so happy i Q her
Old favourite* Old, Old Words,” but this w»s malrly
due to tne orchestra, which completely over-
powered her, and oaused her voice to be ineffec-
tive Still for all that an encore was accord* d
her * Mrs. Atkinson was unfortunate in the choice
of "her song, *• Because of Thee ’ not making
the usual impression upon the audienoe. Nor
whs Herr Friedmann more fortunate with nw
for his voice is utterly unsuited for such
solos’as” Largo al Factotum.” It isn’t sufficiently
although musical enough for anything.
A duet between Mons. Kowalski (piano) and Mr.
M‘Lean (violin) was a grand item, but as a matter
keonnran the gems of the concert were Kowalski s
own compositions, which he
iSiyslnflnitely better than he does those of other
uomDosers. “ lUtait uoefois is a very quaint
And obaraoteriitio morceau, and bis galop, Qui
m aime me sulve. ’ is tub of brilliancy and d um.
Hs MoewM » hearty recall for each of his per-
tn,m«nni s “La Oartta,” which was sung by Miss
K „t a mome t’s notioe as a substitute lor
Miss GlendeaniDgs was pleasing, although the
ladies in the ohorus were inclined to screech in the
register The Tannhauser March, by chorus
andorohPstra, made a charming finieh to a pleasant
oonoert. , # *
The Sydney D.T. slaverer again. This
time it is an no u need that Lady Carington ha,
expressed herself as highly pleased with the Law
i Courts.” The Governor’s wife is an inoffensive,
unpretentious little woman, and w ® do “ * Bdpp ,° B ®
gUe wishes to he set up as an authority on law
courts,any more than she desires to be regarded as a
connoisseur ef penal establishments. Whom does it
interest to know what Lady Carington thinks
of law oourts ? We’d like to know, however, what
Lady Caring-ton thinks of the people who stand
pencil in hand at her receptions, cataloguing the
guests. ,
** a *
The second annual ball of the Nevertire
Plcnlo Race Club took place at Dubbo on the
30th ultimo, and was a very enjoyable affair. The
snobbishness which was shown by a few members
‘ast year in black balling everybody whose posi-
tion in the social ladder was a fraction of a rung
below their own was this time conspicuous bv its
Absence, and the Duchess of Bounoe and the
C untess of Pills might have been seen conversing
with the Merchant of Venice or the Master of Rolls
just as if such common trades-folfc were made of
the same liesh and blood as themselves.
V • *.',»* *
Christ Church, South Yarra, Melbourne,
was the scene of a very pretty wedding on Tues-
day afternooo, 27th April. when the marriage of
4r Albert J. Hodtrkinson, of Humber Bank,
Richmond River, N.S.W., to Miss Ada Josephine
uidmlston, of Albert Park, Melbourne, was
solemnized. The bride, who was given away
by her uncle, Mr. H. Bishop, of South
Varra, looked pretty and graoetul in a wed-
ding gown of ruby satin, tastefully trimmed
with cream lace, bonnet to match. She was at-
tended to the altar by four little bridesmaids in
oostumes of ruby and brown plush, two In each
colour. Amongst the guests present were Mrs. M.
Kldston.the bridegroom's sister, who wore a hand-
some gown of black velvet, with front of coffee
lace over ruby Batin, bonnet of coffee and ruby;
Miss Hodgklnson, pretty dress of mouiselaine de
lalne, white bonnet; Mrs. Nungesser (N.S.W),
prune silk and cashmere; Mrs. Edmistoa, black
silk ; Mrs Bishop, grenat satin; Miss Eimii-
ton, cream eastern -re ; also. Messrs Hodgainson
(best man), M. Kidston B. Ktdston and Robbley.
Itter the wedding dejeuner, with its usual accom-
paniments of speeches, &c., the bride and bride-
gioom left by the afternoon train for Beeenworth,
en route for their future home on the Richmond
River.
SOCI I.L FIXTURES.
ICansfipld Cric et Club conoert, Protes-
tant Hail May 13
Junior Pharmacists’ ball. West's r00m5.... May 13
viavoress* Reception, Town Hall May 13.
Petersham Private Social, looal Town
Hall May 14
Ash&eld Amateur Atnletio Club sports,
AShfleld Reoreation Ground May 15
tfrs. C. J. Roberts’ “ At Home ” at Gbats-
worth May 17
detropulitae Liedertafel Moonlight seren-
ade on board Brighton May 19
Saltern Suburbs A. a. Club annual eports
meeting, Association Cricket Ground.. May 24
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— List Thursday the lawn tennis
ouraament attracted what most of the papers
called a ‘ select.” or*wd to Moore Park—select in
he said papers’ lisgo being, I presume, a synon-
lyo'ous term for wealthy. But there were some
eally nice people amoDgst the company, ana
chairs were plaoed near 'he courts so that we
aren't unde l " toe necessity of straining our eyes
'rom the in order to see how the play pro-
gressed. Lady Cariasrton wore her Pretty helio-
trope costume which I have described to you
oefore. Her two little daughters were in white
dresses, and th-ir bonnets were a mass of paie-
oream lace. The little mites carried square cream
oarasols, and looked just like everybody else*
children exoept that they were more B ln JPjy
•lad than children usually are.
lovernment House party seemed to be much in-
rxrostfd in the game, and although they had
iwarly all of them engagements for early m the
evening, they stayed on the lawn f r, I should say,
marly two hours. Tea wa« served in the refresh-
oent-room during the afternoon to those who
•ared for it; and, on the whole, it was a pleasant
tfternoon.
At last the proprietors of one of our popu'ar
drapery establishments have seen fit to take tne
hint so loDg and earnestly thrown out to them as
to the advisability of attaching a tea-room to their
ort-mises. Mr. Quong Tart is the caterer and we
needed no second invitation yesterday morning to
step from Messrs John Hordern s show-room into
tne prettily constructed tea-room which.is sltuatea
at the further end. and partake of the famous
•tea and scone.’’ It is a pity, though, that the
proprietors have decided to debar the shop girls
from taking their lunch in tne tea-room. I can
quite understand that there are many ’ladle*
amongst their customers who wou'd squirm at the
idea of sitting do wn to a cub of tea in tne company
of these girts, out surely a small screen
would suffice to leave them in blissful ignorance
of the t* rnble faoc that tney were actually drink-
ing tea in the Bame room as the girls who had a
moment before, perhaps, been serving them with
ribbons!
A large community of the Sydney folk are
grieving over the loss of Hisoocks Federal Min-
strels. who departed in a body for Brisbane last
Saturday They nave beei-i here so long now that
they seem to belong to us, and although we have
a surfeit of entertainments here at present, it
appears to me that none would be missed so muoh
as this funny crowd.
Kowalski has given us another concert since last
r wrote; it was quite as enjoyable as the first
There was b ;d management about tne seats, how-
ever, which was quite unpardonable, many
oeople who had booked placet f°P n d fh em "
selves without any upon arrival at »he hail, ana
compelled to take what they could get,
vhich was, to put it very mildly, annoying. JNo-
o idy seemed to know who was responsible for tne
carelessness, so no one was blamed On, bi>the way,
1 saw the Count de Louvieri g atd his pretty wife
at the concert, and 1 have beeh told since that he
oas oome back to Sydney to stay. 1 should like to
gossip with you a little longer, dear, but
although the spirit is willing the flesh is very,
very tired.
Your loving,
MA.B.
T w o magnifloent lies appear in the Sydney
morning papar cablegrams of the present ween.
One is that Lord Wolßeley and Lord Beresford in-
end to lead the rebel Orangemen in their propped
rebellion; the other that toe Canadian Commons
have passed a “colourless" resolution approving of
Home Kale for Ireland in a modified form. Ihe
first quoted rumour is a speoimen of the lie direct,
tne second is a lie by implication. Kigged as the
cablegrams to the dally papers now are by the
Tories, these political messages have degenerated
into mere distortions of fact for oarty purpos 8.
Premier ball-room deoorators of
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators,
and banquet rooms tastelully decorated
flair and floral decorations, «0M» Hunter'
Sydney/
New
, Ball
, with
-street
CORRESPONDENCE
I Oorretpondentt who owe neither name nor nom-he-
vltime cannot expect to have their com*
munieaUont noticed,]
“Alex. J.” (Burry Hills): “Bought a
cheese at Paddy’s Market, and then could ndt
oarry it home ? ” Bosh 1 why didn't he lead it
home with a stringSubscriberWill en-
deavour to ascertain...A Drifter ”: Not to-day,
Sarah...." M. 3.”: The works you mention can be
obtained in cheap editions from W. Dymcek, book-
seller, Pitt-street, Sydney. Reynolds’ address,
313 Strand, London. We fear your other projects
are too extensive...." Pica You can’t expect utf
to admire the pretty way in which she rolled out
cuss words. And about her beirg like “heavenly
dew”: when her beetle-crushers smashed the
daisies, had she anything less than 14-stone of
pressure on ?....*' P.D.”: You might send your
theory to M-. Rustel), of the Observatory. We
believe it would be a novel one to him
“Guelph”: You would write good comic verse
if you had any id* aof humour. Screed on appli-
cation...." W.P.W.” Your verses are lost to this
generation. ..“FS.D.”: Impossible to obtain
desired information “ H.T.”: Little drama
burnt...."Jsmes Buxbridge”: Hackneyed sub-
ject—weak-kneed stuff ...“E EW ”: Overlooked
last week. Now, alas, too 1ate....“ G. Went-
worth”: Can't. Not any...."F T.”: Somewhat...
"Camera”: We incline to Republicanism, which is
coming all the time; you adore the "nobility”
and want us to grovel to the Imperial lackeys.
The time has gone by when such people as you
seem to be, had the power to provide for us
•‘board and lodging at the country’s expense 1
"Hornet": G ad to hear from you ofteD, even
though only one of your items happens to suit.
....“John Horton”: We have devoted especial
attention to the Orangemen bf cause they are
stronger and more successful than the opposite
set, and there is always a danger of their becoming
a dominant foroe in N S.W. politics. We hardly
know which would be worse—to have Australia
ruled by the Pope or by the ignorant unprin-
cipled creatures who in N.S.W. are the gods
of Orangeism "A.” (Bathurst): Thanks
"S.J W.”: Dr. Barry’s statement reminds us of
Oliver Wendell Holmes’ observation that theolo-
gians develope what is called a nictitating mem-
brane, a sort of soreer, well known In birds, which
serves to shut out, not all light, but all the light
they do not want “J. W. Syme”: The Evfning
News correspondent talks bosh. Sir Saul Samuel
is just about the best Agent-General N.S.W. has
ever had. (2) We don’t know whether it’s true
that the N.S.W. representatives at the Berlin 1 ele-
graph Conference, the proceedings whereof were
conducted in French, could not speak that lan-
guage...." Tax”: Will keep these points in sight.
...."Subscriber”: Not half a j )ke in it that we
can see “ Rupert ”: Poetry, was it ? Then sling
us some prose...." J.S ” (Sydney): Are they humor-
ous, satirical, or what? We think “what.”....
"J. E. Hartley”: Mr. G'adstone’s decentralisation
programme-tbat of having the maximum of loeal
control exercised fey looal bodies, is the very ides
at the bottom of the Queensland Separation move-
ment. It ensures economy, expedition, and per-
sonal knowledge of what s wanted, as against log-
rolling, blundering, and official delay aDd corrup-
tion at some distant uninterested metropolis —
"J.J.C.”: Heaton got his “maiden speech” in the
Commons printed by the European Mail, but he
didn’t get the remarks of Baden Pc well, M.P.,
about him printet at the same time. Mr. Powell
scouted the idea of the member for Canterbury
being a “ representative Australian,” and said that
«anyone who knew the opinions of the Agents-
General would be quite sure that Mr. Henniker
Seaton would be the last person whom they
would ask to act as their mouthpiece.”....
‘ Oyster Johnnie ” : Next week ‘R. J. Stack,’’
and "L.A.” (Woollahra) : Held over...;."Mark
Johnson ” : So you want the report of the N B.W.
Drink Commission, do you ? If we were a member
and got two guineas a sitting, you'd get it if you
were very patient and had in you the elements of
longevity. The report is sure to be out before the
year 1900, and when it comes it will be procurable
at the Government Printers for about-10t,, and
later on for twopence a pound if you succeed in
anticipating the butcher. After all, what does it
matter what such persons as Ilensptt thljik ? ...
«• j.y[ k ”: The "stage-door masher ” is not such
a p'ent ful article in Australia as your verses
would have ns believe. Occasionally, here, one or
two stragglers prowl around and await their
charmer, who generally comes out with some
other Adonis. Taken upon the average, it is found
that the ladies of the profession prefer to marry
within their own world Outsiders do not please
them for the ladies know intuitively that, in most
oa -es, they love the aotress and not the woman.
...."C.M.S.”: You surely should be able to say
positively whither your correspondence is
tampered with in course of post.
We observe that the Bombala Herald,
owing to presure on its space, bas had to bold over
a mass of correspondence. We hope our contem-
porary will burry up. Are we of Bydney to be
in metropolitan darkness about matters now
stirring tnat district to the very depths? we
naven t a single item of Bombala news this
N w, tell us—has no horse attached to a spring
cart b dted and run into th« verandah-post of a
re pcct*d townsman? Doyoumeau toted us that
the system of guttering and kerbtng, as now
carried on, is not open to grave surmise ? Is there
no address getting ready to present to the Kyar-
dtual when he comes through ? and do you really
mean to say that your subscribersar i all receiving
tueir papers regularly aud paying up in full ? And
was it really worth white to hold over the leader
we always reserve for Sabbath meditation in order
to give your Delegate correspondent a column to
ten how Tnomas ivejl was charged with stealing
one sheep? that Lawrence Ryan has married Mmi
Dehny (may they be happy)? and that the E’Sfter
holidays passed off quietiy at Delegate ?
JJRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
sdf
USTRIAN CHAIRS,
in
- Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and
LAMB.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb,
WALL CABINETS, for Choice China, &c,
;VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton, and
Lame.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o. BRADLHY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O Cjnnell and
Spring streets.
piHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
U Large choice Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
J'ConnelL-street.
p| RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prioes, from I2e Bd. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
â asd
CANVAS FOLDING
COTB,
for camping out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/6.
iBIOC
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connfrll-atrf'et.
WD VI E IDS.—AII kinds and siz°s t at lowest
prices.
DDING.—AII descriptions at- lowest rates
BRADLEY, NBW'TQN and LAMB.
ã fasd
fa
I
RON SAFES,
various sizes.
BRADLEY,
NEYTON,
and LAMR
■it* *3 few X4Xilv/ijUAllb t £ uftrtiutoou «Oui»u
’QOtl strong, and durable, Trlohord ful l
'ompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Jaae. Free at rail or wharves fo» cash only.
B'adley, Newton, and Lamb.
Five pounds fifteen shillings bed-
room BUITBS —The Economic Bedroom
suite, comprising wardrobe, washsta n d with towel
rail, dressing table and glss*. and two chairs.
The lot for £5 15i. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various wooer ,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe*t
jrardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sing: e
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTO>,
and LAMB, Bpring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
PULI SUITES for DINING-ROOM SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
JVERMANTEL, COUCH, EAS Y CHAIRS, CARV-
NG CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
natch, on view at Bhow Rooms, O’Coanell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extendlns
ggrew, from 5 feet long and up to 80 feet.
sdf
ICE CHESTS,
all sizrs, from 279.
BRADLEY NEYTON. ard
LAMB
Spring: and O’Connell Streets.
ä asd
UPRIGHT
-|7IXOELSIOR
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various size*, from 45’.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
*.,ABY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Be-
Ui rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
CHAIR and COUCH fof
O INV ALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY OHATIH, elegant aad restful,
a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-fctreet.
å fasd
CANVAS FOLDING
CHAINS.
Substantial and liffht, suit-
able for sbioboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTOW
and LAMB.
0 RAWING- ROOM C A BINE rS.-Early English,
and Chippendale designs
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashio n
able designs in Black and Gold with Si '
melves; also in Oak and Walnut Wood. a* *ll
r..va. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Fur-
niture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell ats.
m
PATRNT BANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
iLASI'IC WOVEN WIRE
MaTIRASSES.
LAWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet lon*. Ruatlo
Cast-Iron Standards. 16s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6x 8,
8 x 8.9 x 8.10 x 8 !2 xB. at low puces Bradley*
Nuwt>>n an ...nmb, O C m-»H and Spring streets.
/
IP
AMR lOAN PAfRNT
SHUT-UP CLOTHES
DHYERS.
Each dryrr Rives 136 feet
of hanßinar space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, an*
LAMB.
w
ALNtT TELESCOPIC JOINING TABLES',
with two flips, strongly made, only S 3 10a,


The drinkers of stewed willow leaves and
debauchers of the pump failed to score one in Wei-
Ungton, N.Z., recently. The Lioensing Committee
refused to grant licenses for the Wellington Racing
Ovt-Iv cl Jaiiil //u $ vcjot-ij.
/taad «.*Cej3»-
NTna. VY ifG . ('y /U /U £.
yya. >vi t Al\r ar (- ai ,
' Mi I* (pt- /ttrt v |
f
clod- Iv[orhev- •n(a - r,v
|po.''Sw'\Ol l l.i r"A
£<?c\s>'s oj- m iIK ? 1
iTomto <4. (o\ 'lufu/ou'e)
\| , <i ,, i»< , ( .»> " bo'trly 1/vjl/' vie I’ -my
w. 11 m Uw'
IN' memory Of
Poo^Pusf;#
fa
murder in the Milk.
“The dairies visited at Leichhardt were in a horrible condition. Thirty-eight customers of one milkman were down with typboid [?]ver; five of them bad already died... I.
The water at these dairies was mere sewage: the dairy-proprietors got their supply from wells whien received soakage from horrible cesspits and the foetid percolations from two
cemeteries containing thousands of bodies.....One datry omen had to put Condy's llui I into the water betere the cows wou'd drink it.”-Dr. ASHBURTON THOMPSON'S
report on certain Sydney suburban dairies, summarised.
Qub’s meeting and the publicans scored acorrd-
#g*y. They gave away tbe liquor and the con-
flamers gave an equivalent In subscriptions of one
)ort and another; consequently the Lioensing
Committee "pave away ” themselves.
The comet has been about these parts
again. He still wears his hair long, and puts up
for being a more travelled vagabond than Julian
Thomas. We are reliably Informed that owing to
the prevalence of typb.oi-f.be w!l! ret step hr, ft
but will just take a cursory glsnc* round, pre-
paratory to swearing ,off ferial flights for good,
and starting a pie-shop at the South Pole. Tbe
of was Bailing Bouth in an
agitated manner, yrlth hi# caudal appendage much
distended; we apprehend that he had been scared
by the dog-star.
, ~ , . , . ...
It was said by the best judges of pugilism
in England that had Captain Barclay, who backed
and trained Tom Cribb for his celebrated fight
with M 'l-i Mi* thnVnoV. KWisity to tfb gft.
he was filial wi'h the mlf>»»'A to any men in the
pnttiJifctio worH then in the Spv-dsy of his g'ory,
but with the of Cspt«in Barclay we
never heard it stated that any amateur bad a show
with the best professional stuff of his weight. The
amateurs In all classes of athletics in these latter
days are giving the “pros.” all their work to get
away from them. George and Myers, the ex-
amateur runners of England and Amerioa respec-
tively. to wit; and now in Sydney we have an
amateur boxer able to thrash anything of his
weight, amateur or professional. Mr. Seale can.
afif aay ftfflftff UP in Au*fr«ilK indepan--
dent ot weight, to face him, and an be fairly revel#
m ibe snort, he bas to so afield tur h» bit v.f fun,,
and on Saturday evening last be accorded a meet-
ing to Fogarty, a fine o ock ot a professional, »t>
Foley’s athletio hall, in the presence of a crowded
and orderly audience.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A etriped red and white cotton shirt and
a pair of old white flannel drawers have been
found in the malle© sorub near Werracknabeal
(Vic). The Melbourne Age thinks that “the
owner of the articles has got lost in the scrub and
has perished.”
One of the most ingenious projects for
alleviating distress in the old country emanates
from the office of the Pall Maul Gazette “ A
special opportunity,” says the P.M.G., “is this
yew offered to the Queen, not only to give an
enormous stimulus to trade, but to increase the
loyalty of her subjects in all parts of Great
Britain. Here are the colonies, one and all, mak-
ing the greatest preparations to be worthily re-
presented at the forthcoming exhibition. Only
let it be announced that the Queen will give a few
large garden parties at Buckingham Palace, and
that her colonial subjects can without great diffi-
culty obtain an invitation to parties, and
there will be a perfect exodus from every colony
towards this country. Many a rich settler who
lives like a little king in some remote colony will
leave his retirement, come to England, kiss the
Queen’s hand (the italics ours), and go back to in-
form his adherents that there is not a more graci-
ous, charming, delightful old lady in all the world
than Queen Victoria, whose devoted subject he
will be tor all his remaining days.” This is altoge-
ther immense 1 But a still better way of reviving
trade in Bngland, and so benefiting the masses
would be to start a grand State lottery, each pr'ze
winner to have a free passage home and the en-
tree to these delectable gardes parties. The pro
fits on the sale of ticaets to be divided among the
unemp.oyed. tiling us the banjo
Mr. O’Sullivan has called the N.B.W. Pre-
mier’s attention to the faot that Norfolk Island
has no representative In Parliament. But, then,
neither has Goat Island. And yet Norfolk Island is
not altogether unrepresented in the Press. The
periodical letter from there, evidently written by
a clergyman, is one of the spiciest things the
Sydney dailies ever get into their columns, and
we look for it as the parched Arab with his black-
ened tongue hanging out of his mouth looketh
for the dim fringe of an oasis shimmering in the
faint horizon. Here are some samples of life in
that storm-tossed gem of the sea and centre of
tumultuous political life, clipped from a recent
Sydney daily“ A saii appeared to the north-east,
but just as we (the population—l 3) had mounted
a ridge she sailed away. (Ten days later ) A
whailDg vessel put in to-day. We see by the die
of the He bald left that Governor Macquarie has
been dead some time. Who Is this Parkes, stated
to be editor of the Empire paper? What is the
meaning of this Exhibition in the Crystal Palace
just opened by the Prince Consort? You see we
receive our news so irregularly that we are alto-
gether behind the times. Will write by the next
ship which calls. Are the goldfields, said to be
discovered at Ballarat iu Port Phillip, really so
rich? *
» * *
Here’s a physician that healed himself
effectually. A man named Michael Quin was
found dead in a hut at a sawmill in Western Aus-
tralia. He had been living by himself for some
time past, was rarely seen except when he came to
the store for a few purchases, and always took
away a stock of patent-medicines. The hut was
littered with bottles and pill-boxes of every de-
scription. Some quinine for him
The “Hat Camera,” the most recent f angle
of this progressive age, appears to he an assured
success. At a meeting of the Liverpool Amateur
Photographic Association, Mr. Dresser exhibited a
very cunningly devised little camera, which only
added three ounces to the weight of his hat. It
can easily be concealed and worked in the hat.—
A hymn to your invention, worthy Dresser,
An instrument of mingled joy and woe,
A silent witness to the gay transgressor
Of wedded vows, who often has to go
Down town on business of an evening. He will
Forget the instrument Which cannot lie,
And when he stumbles home towards morning she
will
Secure his hat, and with revengeful eye
Explore the negatives. Oh Heaven 1 what scenes of
Festivity 1 what greenroom nymphs! what fizz I
Chi camera may be the heaven-sent means of
Entirely bursting up these lark 3 of his,
Even snould this dangerous lead hat be “ caved in' ’
Returning home beneath a reeling moon.
What odds ? Toe photographs are always saved in
A case like that. You’ve seen the “ Octoroon ” ?
Again, some carrot-headed gay deceiver,
At eve, with care adjusts each fiery curl,
Puts on his natty photographic beaver
And sallies out to meet his premier girl;
Will he be any less than broken-hearted
When in his hat she finds a photograph
Ta’en from the hat-rack just before he parted
From his inferior love—or will he laugh ?
Of old when lovers’ vows were warmly spoken,
And warmly answered if they went apart,
The man, though he possessed no other token
Could bear his mistress’ image on his heart,
Now when Adonis calls upon his lady
Her image on his heart may be, ’tis true,
But when to her he lifts his patent “ cadey ”
Upon it ’twill be left imprinted too I
In Sydney, at the present time, we know that
Full many a tallow-chandler and his spouse
To common folk in different ciroles “ blow ” that
They’ve been “received” at the vice-regal house,
Which many doubt. If he had such a hat it
Would satisfy the doubters, one and all,
By showing (that is, if they could get at it)
A neat interior of the servants’ hall!
We have no doubt at all, or but a small one
This hat will “ take well,” and entirely please.
The faithful ought to buy the Cardinal one!
Then when a girl performs on the trapeze,
In aid of Peter’s holy church, we warrant
No counterfeit of her will there appear—
No reflexes of winsome raflders, nor in’t
Aught except pictures, truthfully severe.
Or Crowns of Thorns-to help along the good
work
Wrought cunningly in many-ooloured wools,
And chaste Madonnas, fashioned out of wood-
work
And broidered miracles from ladies’ schools..
This would be right. But would it not be
wrong to
Trust young (or old) men—ice would think it
crime—
With just such hats, who, in the front seats
throng to
Devour the ballet at the pantomime ?
“A Teaoher ” writes us:— “Dear Bul-
letin,—l desire to point out a serious defect in
the system of preparing boys for the junior ex-
aminations, and I claim the co-operation of all
parents in this matter. It is a great disappoint-
ment to a teacher or parent when a boy, whose
education has been carefully attended to and
liberally paid for, fails to pass the standard at the
end of the year. Toe cause of many such mis-
hapß is the neglect of the parents and teachers to
furnish a thorough grounding in the use of beer
and tobacoo. The oigarette is the first stage, and
every father should leave his ‘ Old Judge ’ packet
somewhere about handy, and instruct the youth
in the art of smoking without expectoration. A
oigarette is very soothing between Latin and
algebra, a pipe may come in better just before
English grammar, because there is no English
grammar in existence worth studying, and a boy
might as well be enjoying his quiet smoke as try-
ing to understand the crazy old Morells and Gar-
diners. Then, again, as to beer. A full pewter
la too large for some boys of 14, and all fathers
should take the trouble to blow off the froth and
drink half before nerving the boy with the re-
mainder to tackle his geography. For want of
soma such judicious supervision no less than
eight boys from one school and four from another t
who came to Sydney to the examinations, well
prepared, foolishly filled up with a man’s allow-
ance of beer and smoked new clays to clear their
heads and steady the nerves with the result that
every man of them was ‘ plucked.’ Smoking and
beer-linking being necessary to life immediately
on leaving school, parents should see to it that
boys are brought on gradually.” [Agreatmora
truth admirably expressed.—Ed B ]
• * *
It is time we gave obituary-verses a rest.
The humour of these productions can, in a general
way, be left to speak for itself. But the Melbourne
Age (it has much to answer for in this depart-
ment) recently published a descriptive and his-
torical poem which deserves notice on acoount of
the very serious speculations it arouses in the
mind of the thoughtful reader. An “oldest”
daughter of a deoeased lady says:—
" i heard my mother, she was ill,
And went to soothe her pain;
I left my home in Ballarat,
By the 11.30 train.
When I arrived in Melbourne,
I went straight to her side,
And on the following afternoon
My poor dear mother died.”
The fatal result of this visit naturally sets to
wondering whether the poor dear mother
might not have recovered if her affectionate rela-
tive had missed toe 11.30 train. Anyway, things
could’nt have turned out worse.
WALKER!
Very likely, very likely I he had wandered in his
way—
No food or drink had passed his lips for many a
weary day;
And so, at last, despairing of arriving at a pub.,
The stranger lay him down to die among the
mallee scrub.
He flung away his cotton shirt (’twas striped with
red and white),
And shedding next his flannel drawers he bade the
world good-night;
Then, folding close his horny hands upon his naked
breast,
The stranger went off shiv’ring to the Kingdom
of the Blest.
Oh! ye who die in downy beds, with weeping
friends about,
And lots of willing hands prepared to lay your
bodies out,
Think what it were to shuffle off alone—aye, there’s
the rub!—
Sans friends, sans bed, sans shirt— like him who
perished in the scrub I
PILGRIMS OF LOVE.
What a blissful, blissful prospect I what a happy,
happy dream 1
May Heaven bless that journalist who hit upon a
scheme
For spreading peace and plenty and contentment
through a land,
By inviting far-off colonists to kiss the monarch’s
hand.
With what transport would the squatter quit his
pastoral retreat,
If he only were desired to be one of the elite—
To make one among that happy, highly-interest-
ing band,
Which is graciously allowed to osculate the
monarch’s hand,
Let the invites, then, be issued, let Vio. only give
word,
And no more the bitter cry of outcast London will
be heard;
For colonists as countless as the little grains of
sand,
Will hurry home to England just to kiss the royal
hand.
From Sydney and from Melbourne they will take
the P. and 0.,
To get this glimpse of royalty—in hundreds they
will go;
From Af ric’s sunny fountain and from India’s coral
strand,
We, in fancy, see them speed to osculate their
monarch’s hand.
Who, reading this proposal, shall hare courage now
to say,
That kings are institutions that were better swept
away;
Those useful creatures will be more than ever in
demand i
When every snob can slobber o’er a rigid royal
hand.
Oh I the fever is upon us—wo must grovel with the
rest,
Shall we get an invitation and be numbered with
the blest;
This news has made the bosom of The Bulletin
expand,
May God preserve our gracious <Jueen until we
kiss her hand I
THE DEATH OF QUIN.
It was not whisky or disease
Nor any vice or sin
That made King Dsath stalk rudely up
And grip the hand of Quin.
’Twas Mother Siegel first called round,
Then Holloway dropped in;
And Warner brought his Safe Cure for
The patching-up of Quin.
And then for consultation, and
Because he looked so thin,
De Jongh brought round cod-liver oil
To fatten up poor Quin.
Next, Dr. Bell brought, liver-draughts,
Ay’rs ointment well rubbed in,
And Coilis Brown brought chlorodyne
To soothe the pains of Quin.
Some cuticura next he tried
To smooth his pimply skin,
And Dr. Clarke's blood mixture
By the pint gulped down poor Quin.
And ere he closed Its eyes in death
He'd one regret borne in—
“ I should have chewed the bottles up
Were the last words of Quin.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lubra’s Plaint
(Paraphrased from a funeral dirge heard at Port
Lincoln, 185L)
Thou art arone to the islands of bliss, nay child,
That in a cloud of Bpray.
On the red-bill’s wing o’er the waters wild
Thy spirit hath floated away, (a)
And the fount of my bosom, it flows in vain—
Sad plenty in sorrow’s dearth,
Like a summer tempest of sudden rain
That melts not the baken earth.
I had worked me a hood of the yuro’s (b) skin,
Thy pleasing burden to bear;
Warm and woolly and soft within,
So thou shouldst nestle there.
Ah, mel that labour is all o’erthrown;
I toiled only to regret, ..
And the nimble creature that skin did own—
Why is it not living yet ?
Yea, though thou be dead, from place to place
We’ll journey together awhile;
Though silent, I’ll think thy tiny faoa
Yet on my neck dotn smile 1
And when the flesh is dry on thy brows,
I’ll climb where the tail gum-trees
Shall hold thee aloft in their feathery boughs
To be swayed by the autumn breezs.(c)
O, when the spirits thy life renew
More happily than of old;
When hither thou comest in big canoe
A white fellow stern and oold—
Dwelling in huts and claiming the land,
With store of cattle and food—
Holding our lives in thy cruel hand
To do as thou deemest good—
Chasing us into the waterless wild
That once were happy and free;
May the spirits whisper (d) thou wert my child,
And bid thee be kind to me I
(a) According to Parkalla belief the Bouls of the
departed were transported by a small bird, iltya,
the “ red-bill,” to the Spencer’s Gulf archipelago,
there to dwell until the time of their resurrection
as white-fellows. ...
(b) The great rock-kangaroo ( Macropus laniger)
with woolly fur. .. _ , _. ,
(e) Usual mode of burial among the Port Linooln
tribes, now mostly extinct.
( d ) Among all the South Australian tribes the
white fellows were supposed to have intimate
communion with the unseen world. The very
name for a white (pindi) meant “ grave,” “ death,”
or “ funereal;” bread, rice, &o , were called pindi
mai “ dead man’s food,” and so on.
A Vision of Certain Proceedings Pre-
ceding Judgment.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Great Awakener, his euphonium taking,
And olearing well his throat,
Blew loud, the living and the dead awaking,
The long-expected note.
With ears back flat, and awelled-out cheeks he
blew it—
A dread and awful blast—
And over all the world, men harkening to it,
Cried, “ There’s our call at lastl”
The Czar of All the Russias, who was planted
Under some coals, waxed white,
And took it (such is habit’s foroe) for granted
The sound meant dynamite!
Till Count Shirtoffski, much excited, entered
And cried, “Crowned tyrant, list!
In me, beyond the rest, your faith was centred,
I—am a Nihilist!
“ I always have been one—why doneher tremble ?
(Pear’s driven him off his chump!)
Come out, old cock, let us no more dissemble,
This is the Judgment trump!”
And, as from the Czar’s mail Shirtoffski dusted
The fine dust of the coals,
He said, “Late Czar, our earthly games are
busted—
So, are, I guess, our souls!
Now that all’s * up,’ without a grain of malice,
Allow me here to say,
I meant to blow you, in the Winter Palace,
Up to the Milky Way I”
Then answered Romanoff: “I had some fear you
Were false, and so, to check
Your plans, I meant to send you to Siberia,
To-morrow, just on spec— ——
But, hang all this I Your arm—we’ll toddle on to
The gate thus, arm In arm;
We could not now, ev’n did we badly want to,
Work one another harm.
“ I do wish Gabriel had held his whisht for
Another year or two—
If there was one especial thing I wished for
. ’lwas to put England through.
" With such a bull-dog as my Komaroff is
Tne world I could have slogged—
Were lto give him, at the gate, the offioe,
He’d have St. Peter flogged I
" But, as the empty bottle when the rum’s done.
Regrets are now—no use—
Hello! here’s Bismarck and Sir Peter Lumsden,
And—Thunder and the deuce I
"Lord Randolph Churchill! Well, one must be
civil.
How do. my lord ? Fine day I ~
Who else? Algernon Swinburne! Well, the Dsvil
Now must be making hay!”
[ So, chatting pleasantly, these journeyed onward,
! While many millions more,
From all the lands of all the world, pressed sun*
Seeking the Golden Bhore.
The Grand Old Man at once shook hands with
Parnell,
And arm in arm they strolled—
Before them strolling our Levien and Farnell,
On towards the Streets of Goldl
Alone, and high in air, and like a phantom
Btrode Mudgee Taylor on;
Lord Loftus merely staved to clutch a bantam,
Then, with his cherished one
Beneath his arm, set out to join the legions
That thronged up every way
By which a soul could reach the shining regions
That are as bright as day.
Sir Henry Parkes, no more a full-sized comet,
Moved meekly with the host
Between bis brother-poet, Alfred Domett,
And the Kiama Ghost 1
Among the stars, with scissors, past?, and pen at
His side, with placid cheek,
Pushed onward confidently, Alfred Bennett,
Him of the Sundown Shriek 1
And ladies fair, with shining gems and rings on,
Went past, companioned with
One who, on earth, appeared to have his wings on—
Need we say, Burdett Smith?
And elbowing stoutly in among the scrimmage,
Steering straight for the Throne,
One fair to look upon as sculptured image—
The pagod Makkalone!
Then General Booth, who tried to thump his drum
in
Time with the angel’s blast,
With several Pontiffs, and the Scarlet Woman,
Went amicably past I
And following them—it was the deepest pain w h
We saw these fraternise—
That fierce Bananaiander, T. O’Kane, with
The Mahdi in disguise
As a Revivalist—’twas wondrous how he
Assumed the cunning ways
Whereby men's souls are lured by J. A. Dowie
Out of the dread Pit’s blaze I
And nublioans and men who wore blue ribbon
Trooped onward in high glee,
While Father Murphy and “our dear Mao ”
Chatted familiarly I
That woke us up. We knew it was a vision
As soon as we saw that,
And cried in tones of infinite derision—
“ We're not to be got at I”
0, ask us, someone, if we’ve got a mouth, come
Some kind, good Christian, cornel
This tangled vision and this complex drouth come
Alike from Queensland Rum.
The Pauper.
Bare-headed and gaunt, with their clothing in
tatters,
They kneel at the gateway of wealth,
A motley eolleetion of hollow-oheeked satyrs,
Who gaze at the carriage as by them it clatters
With looks between menace and stealth.
They’re starving, they say, but the lordling knows
better,
A loafing demned lazy-backed crew,
Whose whining eternal but answers to fetter
The arms of the nation—a nation who yet her
Own aristocrats will bring through.
The cry is unheeded, and onward they drive; it
Is where there is plenty ana peace.
And wastefulness reigns where these rich people-
live; it
Is waste they are asked for, but rather than
give it,
They’d send them where troubles shall cease.
Their souls like their stomachs are gorged and
distended
With avarice, lustfulness, beef,
Their eyes see beyond not the hand that’s ex~
tended,
The heart that is broken, the hope that is ended,
The life that counts death a relief.
They live in security, safe from the spectre.
Teat stalks amid poverty's hordes;
What matter to them though such lives may be
wrecked or
That hunger may gnaw them, the bouquet of
nectar
The same satisfaction affords.
A heap of gross humours that rust on the gold,
they
Have coined from the flesh of the poor;
They filch off his coat and the pauper goes cold,
they
Uncover the children so wizened and old, aye,
And then kick the lot from the door.
Let’s look to the day when the poor shall awaken
At last to a sense of their strength,
When hunger and starvation grim, both have
taken
Their flight from the world and wealth’s Gorgon
is shaken.
And lies in the dust at full length.
J.P.B.
WOMANHOOD.
Marriage, the gaol of every goodwoman’s amp
bition, is, at best, not a surreit of Sweets. There
are knobs and excresences, and queer unsightly
edges to the most beautiflui tree; and she who had
reared a family has passed through a career of
anxieties such as the superficial thinker cannot
realise. Ah 1 the mother's joys may be great—but
her griefs many. When To . goes wrong, or Nelly
runs away with the dancing master, and she has to
defend her erring ones against tne cruel taunts and
passionate resentment of her husband, their father,
the woman has a hard time of it. Ho w patient sne
is; ho w gentle her submission; how sweet her resig-
nation ! But who shall say how she suffers beneath
that calm exterior? Atriving at that period of
life, too, when all women undergo that mysterious
and perilious transition of physical force, known
as change of lite. As her past health has been, so
will she pass through the ordeal before her.
Thousands of women succomb, because they take
no steps te secure their strength, and to fortify
their system, and eradicate the effects of prior ail-
ments. This transition period is marked by a total
revolution of her life forces. All the organs of her
body are affected, because her blood is changed.
Her nervous system is strained; her brain is taxed.
And yet ninty-nine of such women go along with
their duties in patient suffering: or, if they do com-
plain, meet with scant sympathy from those around
them. However, in these times, when the laws of
our being are taught to young women, we may
hope that all this will be changed. In the mean-
time, it is gratifying to know the great good that
is being accomplished among sick and ailing
women, by the use of Warner's safe cure. Among
the latest testimonials to this effect, is the follow-
ing: “Alfred-street, St. Leonards Bast, North
Shore, Sydney, N 8.W., March Bth, 1888 About
three years ago, I suffered very much from my
liver and kidneys. 1 did not suffer much acute
pain, but I was nevertheless notatallinolined, and
not fit, to attend to my household affairs, suffer-
ing greatly from a dull, heavy pain across my
back and loins, and between my shoulders, witn
severe headaches. At the time I oommenoed
Warners safe cure, I was also sufferng from
erysipelas in my foot, which completely dis-
appeared after I had taken but one bottle. I took
five more, and am now quite well. Mrs. Mary
Wilkins,” Now, here we behold a very common
state of affairs. Thousands of people are in tae
strait this lady describes—suffering trom no acute
pain, but affected by an indescribable depression,
want of energy, and depression of spirits. As a
general thing, this is thought to be a matter of
“nerves" and resort is had to stimulants of drug
tonics, only to effect temporary relief, and in-
tensify the evil. Warner s sate cure strikes at the
root of the evil, by the removing conditions of
disease, and re-establishing those of health. Ladies,
therefore, whether maids or matrons, spiasters,
widows, or mother-in-law. may well read, mark,
learn, and Inwardly digest these facts, to their
great profit and happiness.


Woman Tiems
Miss L. H. Alexander has passed the B.A.
xamination in history and political economy,
Melbourne University. A chair of millinery is
about to be established.
I A theatrical correspondent writes us, apro-
pos of a variety of things 111-assorted mar-
riages prevail in the theatrical profession. Bo
many marry who are totally unfitted for the
matrimonial state; hence, frequent trouble, and
swapping-round ensues.” “ Swapping-round ” is a
pretty calm expression.
A Bristol young man named Lovell, for-
bidden his lady love’s house by her father, hung
himself by his handkerchief on the knocker of his
sweetheart’s door. The old man out him down
and turned him over to the police, who ran him
into the cold unromantic gaol. You are very bad
when you love a girl up to the knocker.
He was beiDg married, and was so confused
and nervous that he did’nt know whether he was
himself or hisltwin brother. ’Twas done, and as
the party,’, passed out of church, the best man
asked sympathetically “ How d’y feel now, old
boy ? ” The bendict pressed the plump arm linked
in his own, and murmured “ Better by half Char-
ley; better by half.”
Pause and refleot upon what follows. It
may save your life. A Collingwood (Vie.) husband
sought a dissolution of his marriage with his wife,
the other day. In the course of the evidence it
transpired that the wife was a “worker in hair.”
The dissolution was granted immediately. Never
marry a “ worker in hair.” There are enough bald-
headed men in the world.
They are raising a rumpus in Melbourne
over the decease of a 15-month-old baby. After
two doctors had done their worst for the little
innocent, a third praotitioner was called in to try
his hand. Last of all, the baby died. Some of the
local gossips say it wa» “injudiciously treated.”
Few will dispute the assertion. It must have been
a bardy infant to battle on so long against the two
first doctors.
The New York girls don’t think much of
the fasoinating London masher, Kyrle Bellew,
once police-court reporter for the Melbourne
Herald. One daring boarding-school-miss says
of the supernal gentleman in question:—“ Wbat
the girls see in him I can’t imagine. On the strt et
he looks like a guy, and he walks as though he
moved by clockwork. Besides, he 8 an old man,
with horrid gray hair hanging down over his
shoulders. I think he is a fright.”
The Canterbury Times (N.Z.) is very
rough on applications for divorce coming before
the courts when the parties to the suit'are out-
rageously matched in sge:—“ What right have old
husbands to take up the time aud money c f the
country with petitions for dissolution of a union
that ought never to have been? Why should
young wives be permitted any relief from the
company < cruel, or otherwise, we need not dis-
cubs) of old men they ought never to have ac-
cepted ?”
Stuart Cumberland, now touring amongst
us, adopts a sweetly feminine method of escape
from his thought-reading difficulties. When he gets
out of sympathy with his subject aud the experi-
ment won’t come off, the wily Stuart taints away
to slow music. This is a really large idea. We’ve
tried it and find it works splendidly. The other
day our irate missus put us to a severe test. She
asked us to think of what we’d been doing out up
to four o’clock that morning, and furnish an
explanation. We thought and thought without
getting any forreder, and at last we fainted off
under the ordeal. The dear creature “ brought us
to” with oold water and kisses, and the paln'ul
subject has been solved sine die. It was Cumber-
land’s wrinkle. When you are stuck up with an
awkard poser—faint.
“ What is this disease that is coming upon
us ?” Here are the Shroud and the Jernil with
a column or two of twaddle every week purport-
ing to oome from, and to be amusing to, ohildren.
This is how this drivel is produced. Scene: sittlt g
room after tea. Mrs. O’Swine (loq.): "Now,
Tommy and Meliaran, get out yer exercise boohs
and write your letter to the newspaper, or you
get no more bread and treaole to-night. Now
begin.—‘Dear Mr. Editor. I am a little boy (put
down girl, Meliaran, or I’ll thump yer 'ed off yer)
and I live here at a place called Bangabudgery. I
go to ekool, the teacher is a nyse v oung man and
plays the armonia in the quir. I don’t like too
many holidays, but I like a lot of bard lessons. My
da is a farmer and works upon the farm. We got
four cows, and ao I must oonolude for this time
Yours truly, Meliaran.’ ”
Bailarat is the cradle of first olass finan-
ciers. But It is more than that—it is the mother’s
breast of eminent whisky-drinkers. An Irish
gentleman was brought before the Bench of that
enterprising city the other day on a charge of
breaking the windows of a cab, using vulgar, not
to say obscene, language, and generally making a
hysenaof himself. He pleaded not guilty. “Then,
if you are not guilty,” said the facetious presiding
magistrate, " who or what is ? ” “ The whisky of
the place, your Worship,” replied the Hibernian
hidalgo. We forget whether he got six months
or a testimonial. We think, however, it was six
months.
Lord Lecher Hawke, the distinguished
English peer, after being accused of seducing his
friend’s wife, denounced for card-sharping at the
clubs, and run in for being drunk and disorderly
in the streets, meets a pal who says. “ Dem’d bad
biz., this; whatcher going t’ do now?” “Do?”
sighs the other, “ why, there’s nothiDg left for me
now, old fellah, but the other world. “ What!”
exclaims the affrighted friend, “kill yourself?”
“mill” replies the noble lord; “no, deah boy-I
eave for a holiday trip to Australia in the morn-
Dg- that’s the form to-day.” Leaves, arrives, is
ifeted everywhere by the best society, and in a
year turns up in Piccadilly again looking lovely.
There are evidences that a “Children’s
Column ” will soon be required for obituary
notices In the Melbourne Age. A little girl of 5
is thus affectionately remembered by her little
brother, aged 9:—
"Oh, say, is she permitted around my bed to
stand,
When guardian angels hover near, is she of that
happy band ? ”
Fancy that sweet boy of 9 wondering if his 5
years’ old sister “ stands around ” at night.
Why doesn’t he adopt the simple device of going
to sleep with a piece of hardbake in his hand ? If
it’s still there in the morning, he’ll know that little
sister doesn’t belong to the hand.
Many Australian diggers think about try-
ing the Kimberley (W.A.) field, but ere they do so,
they might as well consider the claims of the new
rush on the Amoor (Siberia) in Chinese territory.
15 000 Russians and C inrse are on the ground, and
the mininar regulations are commeodably simple.
Flogging is given for drunkenness duriua working
hours or for bringing a woman on the ground.
Adulterating gold or cheating at play is punistu d
with dea b. A Jew was flogged to death for
spreading a report that Russian troops were ap-
proaching. lohabod’s little game was to cause a
panic and run down the price of gold. So they
bruised Ike that he died*
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Queensland census taken last week. Popu-
lation still under a million, even counting Thadeus
O’Kane for 500,000 The N.B.W. Government ap-
pointed about 800 commissioners to the Indo-
Colonial Exhibition. Everyone wanted to be
a “ dead-head,” and not one in 20 represents
anything but himself, and a desire for a little
cheap notoriety and sight-seeing. London will
have a good chance of sampling some choioe
colonial profanity when these “ Commissioners ”
find they have to pay their shilling, just like com-
mon people, you know, before they can put their
number thirteens on the floor of the show We
see that the new song “ Sweet Belle Mahone ” has
been well sung at Larry’s Flat school concert.
Some of the managers of the Sydney and Mel-
bourne Opera companies are bidding hard to get
the score...,The country Press again. Gale, of
the Queanbeyara Age, gives bis little paper quite a
cheery tone this week by getting Dr. Fitz to write
him a column and a half of minute details of a
highly-entertaining case of rupture of the liver...
The town of Tamworth, N.S.W., is blocked from
further growth by the Peel River estate, whieh
runs up to hundreds of thousands of acres, and
the dividends all go to absentees The number
of lunatics in N.B.W. for 1885 was 74 in excess of
the number for 1884. Still the Evening News is
not ashamed to boast that its circulation is going
up—Professor Hearn, of Melbourne, in the new
edition of his work, “ The Rights of the People,”
as distinguished from the treatment of people as
possible breakers of the law, will suggest that the
polioe be enoouraged to settle all paltry disputes
instead of lunging in men and women to a lock-up
by the scruff of the neck on every possible occa-
sion At Bourke, a N.S W. town famous for
its dust and its landscapes dotted with empty
bottles, there is so gory a fight in progress between
the local papers re the municipal advertisements
that the poDUlation demand the removal either of
the Council or the Press. An alternative proposi-
tion is that the whole of tfce townspeople be
shifted ICO miles down stream and allowed to live
in peace —Victoria basnow two ex pressmen on
the Bench—Judge Higinbotbam and Mr. Webb,
Q.C., the equity barrister who succeeds Mr. Jus-
“The Prince of Wales,” says a recent oablegram, “has vis ted the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition, and expressed himself surprised and pleased at the Australian Exhibits.
tioe Molesworth. Mr. Webb leaves a practice
which brings him much more than the salary of
the judgeship... “Dr. Talmage, preaching on
boarding-house life, said that children in boarding-
houses know more sin at 10 years of age than
people ought to know at 50.” Dr. Jefferis lost a
fine chanoe of saying this when he lectured on
lodgings lately. He might have also said that
children in boarding-houses knew more about
fried cata’-meat and horse-liver coffee than any
human being should know at the age of Methu-
saleh... John Nichols, the oldest living colonist
of Viotoria, is so reduced in circumstances that he
is compelled to ask police assistance Sydney
Globe asserts that “ nothing can possibly be more
disinterested than the opposition of Sir Henry
Parkes to the inoome tax.” One Moran, of
Sydney, has been suspended-from a bedpost The
suspension is absolute, and he will rest at Rook-
wood for a few thousand years—Revs. Davidson
and Roberts are the Presbyterian clergymen who
have fiercely endeavoured to force the claims of
teetotalism on their clerical brethren. The bri-
thren, after oarefu’ consideration, decided to leave
the matter betwixt ilka soul and its maker, and to
go on with a wee drappie as aforetime. Some
good Calvinism has been preached under the in-
fluence There would have been a banquet at
the opening of the new Tam worth P. and T.
offices, with the Postmaster-General and Mr.
Cracknell as guests, only that the accounts for a
banquet held long ago in that rearing metropolis
of tne North are still unpaid:—
“ Men may laugh and riot till the feast is o’er.
Then comes the reckoning, and they laugh no
more.”
* * *
Miss Gladstone had a queer lot of wedding
presents. It took a sample-room to hold them,
and a squad of policemen to beep the wedding
guests from carrying them off In the lot were a
case of homoeopathic pills, 15 pickle-dishes, and
six inkstands “Is ducky darling sick? What
will he do, ducky?” was heard Issuing from a
sleeping-car berth. Chorus of commercial travel-
lers: “Try some quack medioinel”—Our old
friend, Joe Cook, nas, we read, inadvertently
stated, at Chicago, that the devil is a gentleman.
It is »n old trick, this capturing a city by 11 ttery
of its leading citizens An indignant w iter in
an English paper cites one case oi a married teeto-
taller who kissed over 60 young damsels in one
evening at a London * temperance” celebration....
It Is cabled that, by way of counterblast to Aus-
tralian oopoeit, John Bull, shivering with cold
and beholding our wealth displayed in the Indo-
Australian Exhibition, cleared his throat en masse
and bawled forth to the world that “There’s no
place like Home.”....The latest dog-perjury:— I
was in the street the other mornin’ with that dog,
sir, and a man I was acquainted with came out of
a house. My dog pointed at him. I called to that
dog, I whistled to that dog; but nothing would
induce him to move, sir. to I went up to the
stranger. ’Sir,’ I said, ‘would y< u oblige me
with your name, sir ?’ ‘ Whv, certainly, replied
the stranger, ‘my name is Quail' ”..Dr Vaughan,
R.C. Bishop of Salford, has gone to Rome with the
intention of securing an authoritative pronounce-
ment from the Pope regarding the right of Roman
Catholics to be members of the Primrose League..
Again rumoured that the eldest daughter of the
Prince of Wales is to marry Oscar of , *we.:en...The
body of Mrs. Mortimer Collins, widow of the most
musical of the modern English minor poets, has
been cremated... .lowa State Legislature proposes
to render teetotalism compulsory amongt public
servants. Their mxt venture, no daubt, will be
to make It oompulsory to go to bed at sundown...
An Euglish paper says the musical faculty of the
Germans is on the decline. In Sydney, it is the
hearers of German music who are on tn decline.
She: “For you 1 could do anything—even deprive
myself of neoessaries.” He: “Yes, provided I gave
you the luxuries.” Belt, the swindling sculptor,
had a commission for a statue of Queen Anne.
He has gone to prison for “ chiselling ” a baronet.
When in gaol he might be allowed to chisel Queen
Anne.. .Labouchere says the Queen’s cream-
coloured horses should be put into milk-carts.. At
the conclusion of the season at Birmingham
Theatre Royal the ballet girls were presented
with silver medals. We are always glad to hear of
these young ladies being given something extra
to wear The swindling proprietor of a Paris
matrimonial agency has got two years’ gaol His
plan was to get large fees from verdant clients,
and then, after a certain period of sham negotia-
tion, throw the case up on the ground of the party
not being sufficiently good-looking. ..Cross-eyed
women are advertised for at a Brooklyn employ-
ment office just now, at £2 a week. The adver-
tiser means them to hold a conference in his
museum, and thinks the publio will pay to witness
the ocular method of a squinter who is strug-
gling to catch the Speaker’s eye—The champion
candid man is now dead. He lived at Coventry,
Eng., and his wife, wao was downstairs, hearing
something fall, called out to her husband asking
him what was the matter. Deceased shouting dowß
in reply: “I am cutting my throat.” The
Queen, in going from Buckingham Palaoe to
tne 8»voy, had 3000 policemen to guard her—
“Vissount Hinton,” remarks Reynolds, “has
joined the array of convicted nobles. The twe
classes in the State who, in proportion to their
numbers, use most of the tax-payers’ money for
their support in prison are the so-ealled nobility
and the clergy of the State Charity Church. A
special prison-tax ought to be laid on the p?ers
and the parsons A German Baron, charged
with false pretences, in London, was discharged,
the magistrate saying, “be bad no doubt that,
considering the high position of the prisoner's
family, all his liabilities would have been met.’
It pays as well to be “ well-connected ” in England
as in Australia.... The “justices” have sentenced
a starving woman in the West of England to 12
months’ hard labour for having stolen a few
turnips A United Domestic Servants’ Society
has, we are sorry to see, been formed in England.
Such an association distinctly contravenes the
teaching of the Anglican Cburch, which enjoins
upon ub to order ourselves lowly and reverently
to all our “ betters,” and all who are “ put in
authority over u5.”......The veteran essayist
of the Australasian, on eorge Sand(Aurore
Dupin) "Peace be with her; let us look to
ourselves. The legacies of wisdom bequeathed to
us by the illustrious dead, however imperfect their
lives, aie our dearett possessions.”. ..The expenses
of John Morley, in connection with his re-election
on appointment as Irish Secretary are officially
reported to have been £782125. 9d. Salmon Wilson
spent over £2OOO in Bucks, but the electors
wouldn’t have him at any prioo —Terrible excite-
ment was caused in London the other day by the
action of one John Brown, who while the Queen
was driving down Constitution Hill, threw some-
thing into her carriage. It was a piece of paper
on which was written a recipe for making ginger-
beer.
Thu Federal Coffee Palace Company
Limited.— The ordinary weekly meeting of the
directors of the above Company was held in the
office, Collins-street west, yesterday afternoon.
The secretary, Mr. James Mirams, reported that
between 4000 and 5000 of the new issue of shareg
had besn applied for, the total number now dis-
posed of being 66,000. He also informed the
directors that the contractor was progressing
satisfactorily with the construction of the found-
ation of the building, and that very soon the
architects would have all the working drawings
for the superstructure complete and in readiness
for the taking out of the quantities. This work
has been entrusted to Mr. ft. T. Barbour. The
directors decided tc keep the share list open till all
are taken up. i
USB
DR. SCOTT'S
Electric Appliances.
"THE GERM OF LIFE IS ELECTRICITY.”
Dr. Scott's Electric Corsets & Belts
AN ENGINEER’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the s.s. Northum-
bria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past 25
years, sendßus the following statement:—“About
seven or eight years ago I sprained my back in lift-
ing an anchor, and from that time until I came to
you for a Belt, I never was well. Excruciating
pains in the back and muscles used to attack me
with alarming persistency until really I could never
depend on freedom for a single day. Having tried
so many things ineffectually, you cannot wonder
that I purchased your Dr. Scott’s Electric Belt
with considerable misgiving, but I am happy to tell
you that since commencing to wear it I have been
entirely relieved and have not suffered from any
of my old symptoms since. lam now completely
cured, and there are scores of men in the coastal
trade to whom I have recommended it, who, from
personal experience, oan speak as highly of it as
myself.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET
For
HEALTH, COMFORT, AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
Mrs. Williams, of Millers-street, St. Leonards,
writes of these admirable curative appliances:
—‘‘l cannot speak too highly of your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Corsets as a natural and scientific means
of relieving pain. For a very long period I suffered
from acute backache—one of the most distressing
complaints of our sex, but I am happy to inform
you that since wearing your corset (Dr. Scott’s) I
have never once felt a relapse or a return of my old
symptoms. I consider them, indeed, invaluable*
and frankly and earnestly recommend them.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC BELTS.
ALMOST MAGICAL.
Constable William Stapleton, of the Redfern
Police Station, has experienced some of the benefits
of curative electricity in the form of Dr. Boott’s
(the only genuine) Electric Belt. I suffered con-
siderably, says Mr. Stapleton, from muscular pains
in the back, caused through exposure and taking
cold in the execution of my duty during a heavy
rainstorm. You cannot imagine the amount of
pain and agony I suffered from this comparatively
trifling matter, and it became so bad that I was
obliged to consult our surgeon and obtain sick
leave. Neither the one or the other availed, how-
ever, and as a last resort I tried your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Belt. The effect was almost magical. Tho
pain seemed to leave me instantly, and I have never
felt the slightest inconvenience from it. I have
recommended your Belt to scores of my friends,
and amongst others to Mr. F. Cavener, the head
porter of the Railway Station, who used it with
equally successful results upon a child of his. I
am well known in the force, and if my published
recommendation is of any servioe to you you are
welcome to it.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
SPLENDID ARTICLES.
Mrs. Kirk, Bathurst, writes:—“l am highly re-
commending your Electric Corsets. They are
really splendid articles. ’
BETTER THAN REPRESENTED.
Brooklyn, June 28.
Dr- Scott,—The Corsets I ordered six months ago
have worn splendidly, and have given satisfaction
every way. Tney are the best Corset I ever wore,
aside from their electric qualities, which are truly
marvellous. I suffered greatly from rheumatism
in my back and limbs; but your Electric Corsets
have entirely cured me. They are better than re-
presented.
Mrs. J. B. Babson.
RECOMMENDED.
Byron Creek, Richmond River.
Gentlemen,—Your Dr. Scott’s Elec trio Corset
and Belt came safely to hand. My wife finds very
great comfort through wearing your oorset, and
I have not suffered from those pains in my back
that* used to worry me so before. I recommend
your goods with earnest confidence.
Yours faithfully,
T. Lea hey.
MORE RELIEF.
THEY COME AND STILL THEY COME.
St. Joseph’s Convent.
Kooringa, S. Australia.
Gentlemen, Your Electric Corsets, which
pleased me very much, oame duly to hand.
Truly yours,
Bister St. Joseph.
CURED OF DYSPEPSIA.
Niles, Mich., January 5,1885.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets have cured me of
acute dyspepsia, from whioh I had suffered for
eight years. His Eleotrio Hair Brush oures my
headache every time.
Mrs. Wm. H. Peak.
WELL WORTH THE MONEY.
Mrs. Coughlan, Gootamundra, writes, February
17:—“I received the Electric Corsets safely, and
am highly pleased with them. They are well
worth the money. I have also much pleaseure in
stating that I like your Electrio Hair Brush very
much.”
These goods are sent out in a handsome box. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by whioh
the Electric-Magnetic influenee can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we, will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage.
The prices are as follows:
No. 1 Oorset
No 2 Corset
No 3 Corset
No. 5 Oorset
Eleotrio Belts
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION'
54 MARUARET-STREET, SYDNEY


el
5
Iq=j : : • // ti J/Alt f?s\
sdf
:= j7r^yy~tf lii/T A Mn
a asd
SjlPv
* f
f _-L^rtjl|Bßl|
_s,
f a puej>T<°H
T op-:xiMmwM
. ,
SaA>t ¥ai.i>-
I wLet/ouQtf!
fas
£™™*sr “k£Z%£S£L“*«’’
,;' . <raj^/tf£ ifav&T&pP, i
we Police
*OR FURTVCR PARTICU-
LAR} INQUIRE MrHtP
The Dog Question in Sydney.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
Fogarty, who has been showing on the
metropolitan boards for some time paot bad a big
pull over nis opponent in the matter of avoir-
dupois, and started by rushing back to the ropes
the amateur, who missed his footing and narrowly
escaped falling off the stage. The amateur led off
Fogarty several times, when Fogarty crossed
him with the right on the top of the head, and this
was about the only true hit the professional de-
livered during the bout. Mr. Seale commenced
business in earnest with the second round, visiting
Fogarty where and when he pleased, although we
never saw him fight less for the body than he did
on Saturday nignt. Fogarty took bis punishment,
and it was severe, without wincing, and he ap-
peared dazed when the round terminated. The
thi-d round did not last three minutes, as the
amateur used both nanda with telling effect on
Fogarty’s head, and then landed a really terrific
lei t hander lair on the mark, when Fogarty reeled
to his seat and said he could fight no longer The
amount of punishmeut doled out by the amateur
may be guaged by the fact that Fogarty one even-
ing stood six rounds before Jack Hall, who Is
light but good, and then jumped the ropes as a
finale.
* * *
Baseball, the “national game” of the
Yankees, has not made a particularly happy start
this side of the line, and if any of the exponents of
the game had in their minds’ eye thousand-a-year
screws, Buch as are paid the crack players in
America, we fancy their hopes must be now as
void as their pockets, which were mulct of 253. a
man over the late matoh. The ever liberal ground
trustees of the Association Cricket Ground, taking
into consideration the fact that the baseballers
were struggling for an existence, allowed them
, the ground for the afternoon for £l5 and fifty per
cent, of tlte date. The ground was not exactly
packed at the opening game of the “ national
sport,” and now accounts have been squared up,
the busted baseballers find they have to pay £lss.
per man for their little Saturday afternoon’s ga m e;
so those members who didn’t get a chance to dis- I
locate their jaws over Arlatonicus and Zach Phelps
are beginning to lose faith in the chance of accli-
matising the "sport ”in Australia. Leaving the
merits of the game out of the question, if it is
liked by a section of tbe community, is it right
that it should be crushed in this manner by trustees
who were appointed with the oeject of fostering
healthy out-door sports ? Athletic men are dolts,
or they would memorialise the autaorities on the
subject.
* * «
The king of winter sports—always except-
ing i he game of Zaokpheips—was in full swing last
Saturday both in the city of Sydney and suburbs.
Two matcaes for the Gardmer Challenge Cup
were brought off, between the Wallaroo and Rose-
dale clubs, and the Arfomas and Balmain Welling-
tons, respectively; the Rosedale and Balmain Wel-
lingtons being the two latest additions to the list
of senior clubs. The first-named made a good
stand against the Wallaroos, being only two points
to tne ban; but the Arfomas fairly ran over toe
Wellingtons bj 17 points to nil. A match between
the Stratnflelds and second University ended in a
win for the former by 6 points to nil, and the
Newtowns found little difficulty in defeating a
team from Waverley.
* * *
The Wentworth C.C. fully sustained their
oocktailiah reputation on Saturday last when they
lost four wickets for 45 runs, of which Sparkea
made 26 The Osbornes ought to finish them off
next Saturday with a one innings’ defeat.
* • «
For the Cup, the ’Varsity let their matoh
go by default on Saturday, am* the Warwicks and
Belviaeres take their Unal flutter on Saturday
next on the Domain, when tbe Warwioks should
justabout “do” the Beis The ’Varsity men, whether
in the cricket or football field, take their gruel
very badly, and we heard it remarked in connec-
tion with their want of taste In not advising the
Belvideres of their Intention not to show up, that
it would be a vast improvement if a smattering of
good manners were rubbed In with the classics at
Sydney University.
* * *
“Owen,” the newspaper correspondent,
who on Saturday received his quietus by stumping
in the match Warwick v. 13 Surrey United, on
the following Monday described tbe work of
M’Donald, who stumped him, as “worthy of
Jarvis.” As a matter of faot "Owen” rushed
half-way to the opposite wicket, to knock the
cover off a slow one of Gregory’s, It didn’t come
off, but his bails did, as a child could not have
missed taking the ball.
* *
By oable we learn that Neil Matterson
and Godwin are unable to come to terms over the
proposed match, and that Nelson, tbe colonial
sculler, now in England, is to be awarded the
Humane Society’s medal for saving a little boy’s
life in the Thames. Talking of colonial scullers in
England, it will be interesting to wathh the first
impressions of the English Press—the Reeeree, In
particular—on the style of our William Beach.
* » *
The meeting between Brown and Wulf, in
outriggers, for £5O aside, came off on Saturday
afternoon over the champion course, Parramatta
River. Wulf was leading and appeared to have
the race in hand at Putney, when he fell out of
his boat owing to the carrying away of one of his
swivel rowiboks, The men are pretty sure to
meet again, when Wulf, should he make sure of
his rowiock-pins, ought to win in a oanter from end
to end.
• • •
The nursery of Port Jaekson yachtsmen,
as Mr. Greagh happily termed the S.A. canv«B
dingy club, wound up its season on Saturday last
with evolutions and a luncheon at Cremorne. The
mosquito fleet numbers 111 members and 32 boats,
and a right merry time tne little clippers have had
during the past season, racing for ovei £6O worth
of prizes. Were the owners of our first-class
yachts as enthusiastic as the youngsters, we unouid
have some rare sport on Port Jackson waters.
* * *
It will be a grand thing in the interests of
yachting, this purchase of a clipper by the guber-
natorial Gascoigne. “Quite ‘de rigger’ now to
keep a yacht, old chappie, doncherknowl”
* * *
In the rifle competition held in Melbourne
to pick Victorians to go to Wimbledon, Private
Allen made top score. 436; and Colonel Sleep, of
Ballarat, second with 417. Sleep went home with
the laßt team some years ago.
• • •
' The ease Melbourne police v. Farnan and
Lees collapsed, and no wonder. There were con-
stables enough at the fight to stop a cyclone, but
they enjoyed the sport till 17 rounds bad been
fought, and all the stuffing knocked out of Mr.
Farnan. and next day coolly took proceedings
against the two pugilists.
• • •
“ ‘ Handsome Charlie ’ Lett, now resident
in England, by last mail sent a couple of Smith’s
photos, to Foley, one in ring costume, and the
other In mufti." Apropos ot the foregoing ex-
tract from a recently-published Bulletin sport-
ing par., “Hiram Ablff” writes:—* I take no ex-
ception to the qualificative aojeotive, diminutive
and apostrephlc title of Mr. Lett. But, if I re-
member aright, U.L. was, when in Sydney, secre-
tary to the society for tbe Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. Is he going to distribute his mercy to
Smith or the Blogger?”
■ * *
The play so far in the match between the
Osborne and Wentworth clubs for the M’Quade—
sic—Cup quite justifies the opinion that the former
will make just as “holy a show” of the Went-
werths as they made of the Carltonians and others.
* * v
The “final” matoh for the N.B.W.Asso-
ciation Ground Cup will* in all probability, be
commenced on Saturday, in the Domain, when
the dispute for supremacy will be between the
Warwick and Blvioore elevens. If previous per-
formances ran be taken as a gauge the latter are
to have the £25 which is the bone of contention,
* * *
Judging from the cnaracter of the play in
the wallaroo and it senale football maton last
Saturday, the ttugby game promises to be quite as
unin'cresting as on previous seasons. When wilt
a player learn that hugginir the ball with the fond-
ness he might show to his best girl Is not football?
• * ■ *
During the seoond innings of the N.S.W.
eleven in the recent junior inter-colonial match,
it was sarcastically remarked in the pavinoa when
Toby end Brown were making their <.xce)loT t
stand, that tee tail have been sent it- fi st, this
must have been a nasty twist for the N.S W.
skipper.
• m a
The Victorian Football Association are
determined to stamp ou- the professional element
from the various clubs, but we tancy there will be
little difficulty experienced in saimming round
the edges and corners of any rule which may be
made with regard to professionalism. One of the
dodges used to evade the rule is to appoint the
man they want tc pay for his services “ property
man.'* in the balance-sheet of one of the clubs
last season an item, £25, is put down for the pay-
ment of the "property man,” but the jok< is that
the property he had to take care of was only worth
about £9.
* * *
The S.A. Advertiser is quite pathetic
over the departure of Mr. Jack Crozier and his
stud for Victoria. "Through the aoolition of
racing,” says the Advertiser, “ South Australia
has smothered an industry on which a large num-
ber of people depended.” This is too true. Now,
what our fellow-colonists should have done was to
preserve the industry and smothered a lot of the
people who depended on it. We should have
thought, ourselves, that the “ books ” were partly
accountable for the prevailing distress in Soutn
Australia. They’ve occasioned a good deal of dis-
tress in some newspaper offices at various times.
* • *
Since Dave Gregory’s accession to the post
of hon. seo. to the N.S W Cricket Association
that body has become considerably more popular
than previously amongst the real cricketers, ana
it is with regret we learn that tfce stalwart and
genial skipper of the pioneer Australian Eleven
nas decided to throw up the position. Humour
hath it that the “globuiar” delegate of tne
Warwicks aspires to the office.
*
The N.Z. Stud Co. have displayed sound
judgment in purchasing Nordeufeidt from Mr.
James White. Latest developments make it very
apparen that the Musket strain of blood is the
stoutest hitherto imported from England. Match-
lock, in particular, proves himself a better horse
the further he has to travel, acid Nordenfeidt
might have been hailed as winner oi tue last Mel-
bourne Cup if the course had been only a-quarb r
of a mile longer. Old Musket hiuiBf.it *as a com-
paratively moderate animai at any distance unuer
a mile, but at anything over two he was a “ whale. ’
The New Zealand Company do well in sticking to
an equine family whioh for staying powers is pro-
bably unequalled in this or the old country.
* * *
Mr. Martin Loughlin, of Sheet Anchor
fame, has made a sporting contribution to tue
funds of an International Fancy Fair, at BaUarat.
Mr. L has presented the committee with his
steeplechaser Du dee, and the ladies—God bless
emj—are now engaged in raffling the animal ai
ss. per ticket. This is a rare chance for some
person to do a deal on the turf. Me might win
Dundee (with all engagements), let his number go
up for the first avaiiao e event, pat u sumeo ay
to lay the horse, scr >.toa him at the last luoine t
for " conscience sake, ’ and hand » ver ti e milk-
ing money to a Society for the Suppression at
Gambling.
» •» .
The in-and-out running of oertain two-
year-olds at the a.J.C autumn mteiing was some-
thing to make angels and bacaers weep Such
uncertainty among juveniles is altogether con-
trary to English precedent In the old countr>
two-year-old “form” is, speaking generally, the
easiest of turf problems to unravel. We refer
more particularly to crack*. Times out of num-
ber have the best young performers gone through
their first season without meeting defeat ana
that, too, after fulfilling a long list of engage
meats. Last season the Bard won the whole 16
races he started for. Thus it comes about tb&*
long odds are systematically laid on crack two-
year-olds with a confidence that is justified by
results They may turn shifty with age, but the
young English thoroughbreds, with few excep-
tions, are innocent, and run “true.” The oftene*
they meet the more surely is their relative form
confirmed. Owing to some unexplained causes,how
ever, it is evident tnat the ottener crack Austra-
lian youngsters race together tne more completely
does tue guileless public get muddied. The several
performances of Blairgowrie. Maddelina, Acme,
Chesham, Volcano, Trident, and Philip Augustuh
have been quite too perplexing. If they continue
their eccentricities through next season the Aus-
tralian backer will become extinct—like tbe dt.do
E. H. C. BRUTDWE.
AUOOIIN T ANT,
ESTATE & COMMISSION AGENT,
247 George-street, Sydney.
£3?" Seoretary Sydney Branch North Queensland
Separation League.
WANTED Goats, Wallabys, KaDgaroos, and
any other ai imals ot the latter species
Those brought up by hand, or tame ones only re-
quired.
P. P. MANDERB, 120 King-street.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. ihe Prince of Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
I
isii
Agents tor JN«*w Wales :
HJ.M. ih 9 Czar of Russia »
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARBARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The MODERN ART FURNISHING
"W.A.X3X3 30VSE
OF
JONES, UTSON BROS., & CD,
POMSKOT CHAMBSH %
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenaeum Club.
rjIHBSE RECENTLY-ERECTED OF BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN FITTED
Jones, Lawson Bros, anti Co,,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish nf
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
the Quality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduoed tr, «
as the arrangements entered into by J -NES, LAWfON '*RC)B ard Ol with tha u ®’
facturers of Great Britain and the Confine! t are of such a nature thatthevare
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORMER WHOLESALEPRICES®
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
JONES, LARSON BROS., and CO. offer Novelties, of the Richest Descr* turn a* *8 o Tq»Twnrv
L ,^» IC S ; brln * in ‘ r el^«n Appoi- tme, ts within th
reason ot great cost, from enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception aud Dr®wm* Rooms.'*
++ ye^bee ?u pecia ] ly fl Oed up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MANSIONS FURNISHED
on the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contract or otherwise ana
Dwellings ot every description fitted up for the leception cf intending occupants *
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: £a*tl*raagli-stri»».*.
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Fiasco.
HORDERN *S
ON THB
ZBrlcUszfieia. am
OH STAY ill CDESET IEPABTHBIT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
o
/(?
c
v
'-0
l
JO
n
\m*-*
It
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4a. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d„ 10s. 6d., 12s ed
EDWAD HORDERN AND *f ONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.— Order* from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.


mm
t.
.r-i'
'• J.
m >ifc®r;
}«•" i-i
: 4.:, c
W. I. PM SCO.
LIMITED,
356 Georgo-stroot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERsTIOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues A Prioes on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
SS6 Georjje-street, Sydney.
The New Furniture end
Carpet Warehouse.
ks, Lam Bros., & Co.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At th® Exceedingly Low Price of £5 IBs*
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prioes.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON - BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies,
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Every Sense.
df
m
O
dMVtUiiS—-
yeffectually destroys.
FALL NOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSOUITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTHERS
ANIMALS
asd
fas
df
n
m
Wanted in Every Souse.
0
G
fl
60
C-3
O
<2O
no
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish 'Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, iunoheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delioious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or oheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Bole Agents,
74 Susskx Stbjut, Bydnby.
YANKEE DOODLE
SSftEE UOiSpTl
Be SOt» S
Oft.
SON
&&=•
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
DIXBOM ft SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
jy YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Diison’s Cut Tobaccos.
toseesa the largest Factory, Manufacture more
tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
F
OR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, au sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description-
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all size* 1
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all Sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, In bales, obsap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, In bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, In assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR BEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 86.
WILLIAM BULLARD’B GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the ohoicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonnl
Vases, &c„ the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music—Thirty shillings worth of m-slo at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. Thii
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Musio
Church Music. Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music - all the most popular works
BOOKS O' inprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse : Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
vc orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &c.; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, ABh Trays,
tiDcl Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocoo. Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices _ . _ . _ .
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Bpoks in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Bamples and prices may be obtained
on application. _
HANDBAGS Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and desorlotlcn
ARTISTS' MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on reoeipt of money order or
postage stamps.
■ILLIAH BULLARD,
812 GiEOKGK STREET.
JJ OLIO WAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and BTO MACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant", attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st, London
per* Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 633 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST_PRIC.E.
NO COMMISSION CHAKOBD POE BtTTINO.
Goods of any description, never mind how small
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you*
JOHN T. M'IMNES & CO.,
GENERAL AS EN TS,
go PITT ITMEI, ■YDNKT, N.i.W
-A.Toxst±2-a.m’s
Pills
. The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
■lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomaoh, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
linns edlate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK-" TONIC NERVINE.”
A BATE, CERTAIN, A SPEEDY C ORE lor Ner-
youa and General Debility, and all oomplaints
that spring' from lack of nerve foroe, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Deoline, Loss of Vital Power,
toe. By its tonic and soothing effects It at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour te the whole system.
Price, is. 64., or 965. a ease. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Mar feht-st„ Sydney. N.R.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at Bd. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Reofern.
JLiin-en. Chios®
Nervous debility cured— Li man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fre h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, ot.ntalj
lng a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P.O„ Box
763, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.^
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OK COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
[EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AS
LOWEST PRICES.
HIM Cl.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
10“ EVERY VBHIOLB QUAR4NT ED


Bray «S& Liolitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
asdf
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that- these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN,
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis. 1 ’
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE on
application.
9
Wood-Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
H. P. GREGORY and GO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. A. FAY & CO., CINCINNATI
AND CARRY A LARGE STOCK OP THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES,
jgg- EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET. Circular Quay. Sydney.
TS
00
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS IL CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS Sc SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in the above lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Bydney.
S3OH
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil&Miik
„. v , PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
■highly recommended fey the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &o.
It will produce an Immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes ifc as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any pther Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. Ifc is the most uerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM, LONDON.
Important to Mothers &Nums
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile lis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. i
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON
• •
lEBlu
m.
iJPyo
ol
S
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED. ATALL CHEMISTS IN
10* 20 02 BOTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCES t
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, PhD , F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MA ASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suites for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents-Eluiot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
r| he BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED BTATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c„ from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
stieet, Brisbane.
ENTLEMEN’B CLOTHE,S REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED BUCCESB
Of
RILEY BROTHERS'
£5
ORIGINAL
PACKED in and INSURED against
|W Carriage paid by mail all over the eolonies
by Coach. Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
*5 LADY’B BALB.
® Ladies’ Chemises
® pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£B MOURNING BALE.
36 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchement®, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15 s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
WappliedV 1111 nB^ruc^on or self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the oelebrated 66 Bales of Drapery
HA'
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon your mind this repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
ands are using it,
it is a medicine
even more than
WILL
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. My
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
oannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
the machinery of your
body into working order.
CONVINCE
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the window, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
If you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
o ily known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; thatit.has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIER,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LIVER —the great organs of the body—
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the G ospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON&CO,, Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied toy competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
asd
.'W'tHEJRE are many men in this colony who are,
* day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloylng Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City apd suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Gotjlburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
if URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, IURNS, SCALD 3, &c- and
aben internally cures DIARRHOEA, DYSENxo&RY,
JR AMPS, COLIC, and all other interna aches
ind pains
Price, 13/- Sold Everywhere.
fi. E. MOULTON, sole PROPruroR,
MIEII.IBOTTRIN't. -A-HSID ii'T D3STEY,
PAINT


The Present Queensland Political Situation.
THE VAMPIRE SOUTH AND THE HELPLESS NORTH.


w.
S*DC mar
*ll
of®TOTTr.—This favourite braa«.
Am! , of th e hJS? Gted with great care from fcae
aj. w the b>.C~r' IJ,J ‘ oa witn great; care 1
ean l rt u ? of the celebrated firm of
Co *» Dublin, and therefore
led. k e pyoenred averywhow-
—WAßSTON, Bole Agents.
or < T:rpr^ f 4. w specially invite inspection
YorTTwo.MAGNIFICENT STOCK of
SP*\PY HAnWv^ nd q OY V “ STANDARD ”
Thea^’ 5 tiIAD^° THIN G * now opeQ FOR TUB
Unrt 8, They £“t from our own sets of pat-
Vnl er the Bun p^, e .beautifully made and fioishtd
C) . ar e sur^ u ( ? Grvi ® l en of our home buyer, and,
“’At, and bs surpa-.sei, it equalled, for
•>gj°oloni es workmanship by any house in the
JswafSK r, T ™p OVERCOATS, exf> a
"StanV 53 ’ I ancy w °°l °r Italian Cloth, 35),
-r.uHrrna „ j~v Overcoats, in Meltons,
lf l0 4 «UOj and Fancy Worsteds, 27s 64,35?,
rS? t'AC 4f, E ,P^ LT7 OVERCOATS. LINED
•> s gATs u 42 fwitns iL K,s33 6d: ditto COVERT
£ e U finishes BAC SUITS, specially
R. Wf eda Br,a e nV la Fancy Mixtures, Scotch
ggej, ' an<l Worsteds, 325 61, 35 >, 425, 455, 50s,
T?»* er P p forwarded on application.
8 ? o Ql3f >rd” l! ee J £ a ° Coats, iss 6d to 25*
per Tjalr ed lrouse,s - 10 ’ «*. 13s 6i, 15i 6d,
gut ana FiNisaED > f ° r
Th e IO A^ J lS SS Ve STS, in LINEN or PIQUE,
J °omi ijAN Y JACKET > for TENNIS or LOUNG F,
bent, LtJ|, Und wJ J .I Oi?O? SE PANT 4 , in NAVY
n s tlG ®oVs FLANNEL, 12s 61
Gowns, in Felt, Celtic and
i3*O sh 303 to 63s
hit*’ *Ol COATS, cut extra
lh,
i, 70s
ROOF COAT, VERY
\&RC TRin 0 Vy 38 * ma - 653
l8p 1 ? I lia; ( i,' v ATE RPR.
H fs TT 6 vrr ach
J8 3 Od. rii UVIAN, LIGHTEST COAT MADE,
£?®Ulati o n
ana Gfltfo 01 Ridin 8' au4 Driving, all sizes
Pj, p s he e{g to match Coats
a 4p ES nri l „ aler Proof Sheeting, Buggy Rugs.
Jfe v «Srne»M 4 T S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
S« SCHV(?? tIv Wmmed 0r Wi “ ter Wear ’ StylißQly
> ERiaH F I?-,00 toB, nice warm Suit, 11s 6d
If AN OF ttr 7 ’ « 00d Scotch Tweed, 14s 6d
Whist?’ ColDplete with Badge, Lan-
ms.de of good Strong Blue
j. 6 '«; sticE > made of Blaek aEd Brown Vel
Knitted suits, in ail sizes
ho Get ians a 1100 M SUITS, in pretty Black
soy«> ». Overcoats, with and withoutcapes,
%TOV^, BSBE ° s “ ™!lu; S.’, and 30..
r Slack Silk and Drab Shells, in all
erf, a hd FlPvi r>Tp? e J atest shades.
Ch^mj-TiT.f-■EDE FELT HATS, in the folio w-
, ° c oiate Dra 1 s. Fawn?, New Browns,
OygUf ’ and Navyßlue
fig AND DBESS TRUNKS, all sizes.
s! or *re ad tr!5 AW ’ PEAPEB and SHAW,
George-streec.
medals.
So/d by SHOE DEALERS, EHODEHS and DRUGG/STS.
fiftfplj?
go o
fiffisli
HAUtHAWAYi&a
SOLE S(SONS>
"°«UEitno. BQSTOff.
r > 1869.
t 1873.
1876*
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. St blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to bs
“THE STANDARD.”
** U TH A WAY & SONS,
33
Street, Boston.
MASS., U.B.A.
Wallace
ev *y description of
Nw Po* "****’ tesrccniiie and
*'^ c J's t< >lfonQiy.
n««iTMI *3
Mim tt “* ”‘ i ' ~ « arni.ii
GUINNESS’ EXTRA STOUT.
quality.
FIEST
a
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercjal Chambers, Bona-street, Sydney.
B\SB’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
t&T THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing’ much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO.,
86 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Off PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up CapitaL - *Wo.o£>
Reserve Fund .....£165,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Htg^K.C
C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.l
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Seroggie, Baq. I H. B. Cohen, Esq.
General Manager:
ff. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen*
Branches in New South Walm :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfera, Gosford, Nyngan,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : ISB LeadenhaU-street.
Directors:
Sdward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Bsq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.GjGeo. H. Alexander, Bsq.
Manaoxr : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Pinan
Mai Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Rills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
,nd other produce shipped to Englandior sale.
To Weak, Nervaus invalids and others
seeking Health, strength, and
Dr. RICHABD3,)«:£. c o r n o ;,
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes
that he has permanently established himself
in Sydney, and may in f uture be consulted at his
rooms, No. 7 Spring-street, free of charge, by
sufferers of both sexes from Nervous and Phy-
sical Debility, Exhausted Vitality. Premature
Decay, Pains in the Back, Head, or Chest, &c., &e
I CURE EVERY CASE UNDERTAKEN.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop
them for a time and then have them return again;
I mean a radical cure. I have made nervous ana
private diseases a life-long study, and can safely
warrant a cure in every case undertaken after a
personal consultation,
Many persons, from the effects of youthful
imprudence, have brought about a state of weak-
ness that has reduced the general system so much
as to induce almost every other disease, and the
real cause of this disease scarcely ever being
suspected, they have been doctored for every-
thing but the right one. Notwithstanding the
many valuable remedies that medical'.cience has
produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a
cure. During my extensive hospital and private
practice in England, I have discovered new and
concentrated remedies, and with the use of my
extensive Ga'vanio Appiiancer, 1 am in a position
to guarantee a cure in every undertaken.
Consultstion costs nothing, and l will tell you at
once whdther your case Is eurabl* or not.
Dr. RICHARDS, M.P.C.S., Eng.,
No. 7 SPRING STREET (iff Pitt-street North), j
Sydney.
BE. B©Y »,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASPLEREAGH-fT
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.xn. to 4 p,m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty,
Be*AmP t Q,_
fa
Barry's Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume In the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
meat. Put up in three sizes.
Bole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
C. LOUGHNAISr,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes Lord Carrington,” “Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” “ Our Girls,”
Boston Bride,” and our ” Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos.—“ Boston Navy,” “Prince Imperial,”
“Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
UMSfuE LILAS
O TUDI lOONOMT
S 3 and
HaveyourUmbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and mad*
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tnme* Ksnsirs neatly eze
•at ail
o
<3
vV
O
> sll
E
VBBYBODY \
SHOULD USB f
FEMELI/8
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IFiaO'CT'Jifc
IT 18 MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Hew Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI Gtow-itrat, Sydney.
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &G.
The only house in Sydney
that makes a Speciality of
Musical Instruments-
Violins, Guitars, Barijos, Futes, AcoordioDS, Con-
certinas. and String's for all Instruments.
E3P“ Musical Instruments of all binds Repaired.
FOGONOW SKI'S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
705 George-atreet, Sydney
, tHHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital 16100,000.
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, EsOm
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq,, M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
X
&
,
&
yy/
/ _<*r >«»»
r///
WA
///> «
///4/
rf -T
W5
X*
Messrs S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
sdfasdfasdfasdfasdf
6. B. RODIM, Bunmaker,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the publio
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements .in
Breach and Muzzle- loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers*
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, _John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen a Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &c, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men's Supplies in general. Rspairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
002 Georgc-st., Brickfield Hit*, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
gommercmOotel^
MITTAGONG.
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor,
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
in this City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the 4?
per Month.
Loans on Go’.dand Silver Jewellery, Clothing,and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at hates never before attempted in this Colony.
Amerioan Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
METXCINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOB NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma! in our establishments, an 4
NEVER, MIND
the temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and unqualified hands. By skill',
science, and
THE CASH
system, we are able to command an extensive
patronage and supply everything of the best
quality at the lowest prices,
T. JONES & GO., Dispensing Chemists,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets,
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHEBB
‘ -'si'.
wm
!i
U
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
Aim
SASTHINWABI,
WINES, BEMRsTahI) SPIRITS
and general
BULK! MERCHANDISE
Agents tor
JOHN WALKBB and SON
Old Highland Wbisfcy
J. BORIN and CO.'S .
Cognac.
J.T OATEN'S
ftohn»pps«a<3 Geneva,
A M to-LV »N*and SONS’
Edinbuvga Pale Ale.
Db. t h o m a
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Mefieal Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathuret-strcet,
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising'
in Australia who hns passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon, Examination* passed
-Licentiate of the Koyal College of Physicians,
London, ,18«4; Member of the Koyal College or
Burgeons, London, 1860.
; ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
A 1 PKLPARI.U ONI V •■■•
H o M AS


THOS.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
14 B3 melbouS T ’ } 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. \ NEA,! & 0 o' s&
Manuffacturor off Turret docks, Prize Caps, Optical anil Survejfing Instruments, He*
Gaunt’s Spaclal Silvar Hunting English Lavar Watch, strong dust-proof oases warranted a most correct and b® 1
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewe ey.
$
PRICE LIBTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
LAROCHE, j
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS.
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
drink I* l
V 0* 1
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemifltflo
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J.iiS. FRY & ; SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the heat ale or porter.—Lanobt.
r ...rfs?
HI
'//m
mane
DE. O OCmELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
s iriDisrttir, znr.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
‘ the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
i life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
d : manent cures in all private eases, ch ron ic,
** inervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
' talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent fey post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility, v
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
•of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
-Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
, ~ .—, — jmp, treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
and private. Symptom list free, an d m edieines sent by post.
vi t&h ‘ nff ’ Burning;, jiSoaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
or erepey kmd. from whatever cause, p romptly cnored.,
It is self-evident that a physician paying parlicuh -r attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
F eg “ lar , p ractice all over the owintr y knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
St c ° u CS m Al | stralla - where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are,used. Ctaf acct >unt of the great number of cases applyingfthe
charges are kept low—often lower than is denanndod. by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life that is the J important :matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
“ DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, -
52 r Castlex*ea jfli. Street (ground floor), Sydney*
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE 1 1
Trade
Mark-
KTO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly... i
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all ohem -
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower/ „
.’5
ta .
B
OBEBT BUTOHEB * 0;0,
(Late William Lon#),
mr WINS AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGS STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Order* receive prompt attention.
MfM Mg
'wou
a
-
SI
BULL DOB ALB.
KRBT AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
fTIHB sparkling, healthful, refreshing., aad hawmw
JL quenching properties of this wor\4-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained fer Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest ai rard given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite be.verage in the
ohoicest possible condition by orderf ng BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all tif* leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KEJ GWIN and
HARBTON, Sole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, HYRBYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AfTtll BKPORB
frpyrtghted.
MOUSTACHE and WIISEEE3.
Boyd’ * Beard Elixir did this, and
I will do a- either bald head or
bare face forces heavy if out-
tachi In front 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 30,000 young men already
- - wear full beards, having used 1 t
8 *>!<». JVo injury. «a»0» applied, certain in effect!
each, 3/or 3i.<ld.,post paid, tent under cover, free from observation.
Frank Uimglai, Sole Agent, Box 730, Q.F.0., Sydney,N.B. W
• EFO'ftß AFTEn
fopvrluhied.
la. M
COOLALTA WINES,
BILVER MEDAIi BORDEAUX,
OELLAKB and BODEGA.
364 Qeorge-street
(Beneath PaUng’s.)
V
THE highest point of psrfe ctl0 °
facture of /
Gentlemen’s fd
having been reached by ours®
prepared to supply our Custo oS t
made of any material, cut on
principle, jj
GUARANTEEING fl*
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of tne ge cU‘
durability and good value are a
A. A. DEBNEY ®jf
13 HUNTER P*™
STDNEY
Bfa-iufactdry
B. c. messit#^
FASHIONABLE L*,.
and MEN’*
Supplies Clothing which, jp
price, cannot be Burpa®® er y V ,
Quality of Goods IP MJft. jj#
without eq«»,iy SO
Tour patronage repec _$ E>
25 S PITT »
XE3
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, g
Manufacturer of aW Mnds of Mrs tad Waters, Cordials, and Bittiars, and Proprietor of Vlpe' 1 *
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. .
Camtta Exhibition awarded the Only Colo Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
