

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
£DE
*7
PROOF
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., RIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
SPECIALITIES:
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LKONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c„ &c. '
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22Jand 24 Clarence-st., Sydney
FLEMING'S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
.*
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
art
FINISH.
Una IF All the
MUag CStlzeu*.
%
SSL
\
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
Hardman Bros.
j
'j&
r.-QfZ
iiiimt>HiiiiiiiiiiinmiiHMini|i|i||iui.!i
ANUFACTURERSb
/ /Goo ;uiyvV
Zjt^
s; r
uwmns
head Office & factory. Newtown
BRANCH. CEORGE ST SYDNEY
? Go id£>\ sy/ii/Pj
A/V/f
Trcacie
Ff/tVfRS
YRI/Pj
I/-
c_»
JOS
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Anything jou require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charge*.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MINNES & CO.,
» CTTT STREET, SYIKVEY, JT.S.W.
' c
caJcenfi
3
oi 0
78
RQj t 'W/U/AM S
S~r“aa«..ips
rriHE
REMINGTON
A
TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-halt the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
“ay, be taken in the usual manner hi the letter-press
Hold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
m Kent
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
HI
ERy
V,-
BRISC'
p
BBS
r<.
Importers of
STEAMT’ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, „&c.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
SlTlDlsrDßir.
■
DW
«
□ o
.36:
z
%
m
o
.
OIJrSON A SONS
OIXS
9IXSO
CONQUEROR
ON A SONS A
YANKEE DOODLE
HA SONS
SIRROGER
OIXSO«*SONS ™ ,c " V"**'
NAILROD
OIXSON & SONS
CHAMPION
OJXSOW A SON'S A****M- *UI* Oft !■§
CUT . In Tkj Picjfds Boxftft
R.C.RU BY ORIENTAL MIXTURE
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF.&cA*
m
SV
c\
mm?
mm
*
rsil
tr
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
Paling’s).
the great northern hotel,
Charlotte-place and George-street.
K. HAMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WIRES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle.
Danville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Born Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag '
4s.
3s.
ss.
6S.
4s.
4s.
4s.
Is. 6d.&25. 6d.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
TTrigliah Ales and Stout, best brands la.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Alb, Portkr, and Laser Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and Bilver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
1-e^ec/v-wi
dfg
MACHINERY.
LAND
UNO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST:
CRANES
AND
HOISTINO
ENGINES^
LAWN
MOWERS.
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, <fto.
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER.
SOLE AGENT^M
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melfootmue s
22, KING STREET.


The Bulletin
Vol. 7—No. 357.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1880.
p^,.
Darley’s Sacrifice.
PLAIN BILL , (to Barley) ; “SEE HERE, OLD BOY. IF YOU GO IN THERE YOU’LL HAVE TO LEAVE AT LEAST HALF OF THAT BUNDLE BEHIND.”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. .. £} Os. ??’
Half-yearly .. .. .. •• 0 12a. Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. • • 0 6s. od.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
t mees should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £L
Th® Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— which you may pay by Post Offioe
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1836.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1886.
"Progress Backwards.”
The pages of the Statistical Register of New
South Wales for 1885 furnish matter for in-
teresting study, although the obvious con-
clusions to be drawn therefrom are eminently
disappointing. The Register and the admir-
able Handbook which accompanies it have
received but scant notioe from such of th
Sydney papers as are conducted in the Free
trade interest. This is not strange, for th
collated figures prove beyond dispute (1) tha
the course of settlement within the colony
is not satisfactory, and (2) that 'the in
crease of material wealth is not in propor
tion to the increase of population and debt
These facts point to some disastrous
defect in the political system of the country
and that part of the national policy which
permits the local labourer and capitalist to
be deprived of opportunity of earning anc
creating wealth by forcing them into compe
tition with slave-gangs and pauper-hordes
at the Antipodes, must certainly be debitec
with a very large share of the resulting loss
Jt is not marvellous, then, that Freetrade
journals suppress the hostile evidence o:
these statistics.
* *
The evidence relating to the course o:
settlement is brief but qmphatic. Sydney
and its suburbs are growing in population
out of all proportion to the remainder of the
colony ; in 1877 the number of residents in
the metropolis was 182,«25 as against 401,382
in the country, but in 1885 the numbers
were 313,652 and 644,262. Thus in 1885
32'8 per cent, of the gross population were
located in Sydney as against 28 - 3 per cent,
at the former period, an increase of 4'5 per
cent. A large addition to the number oi
metropolitan factories would afford an ex-
planation of this phenomenon, but no such
increase is discoverable. The cause is
rather to be looked for in the inadequate re-
muneration attainable by industry applied
to agriculture. The value of agricultural
produce in 1885 is stated at £2,836,697,
although in 1877, when the population was
314,207 less, £2,953,952 was the value of
similar products. Thus, although the popu-
lation had increased 50 per cent., the value
of food produced from the land had ac-
tually diminished. Nor can the nature of the
season be held accountable for this decline,
for in 1885 the yield of wheat was at the
rate of 15| bushels to the acre - 2| bushels
above the average of 25 year’s and less than
one bushel per acre below the yield of 1877.
This deficiency of production necessitated
the importation of flour from Victoria to the
value of £291,999 as against £32,305 sup-
plied by that colony in 1877. In the
latter year the net import of wheat
was 1,489,996 bushels, but the corres-
ponding item in last years accounts was
2,711,876 —very nearly double the amount.
If further evidence w r ere required to prove
that agriculture is not increasing in due
ratio to the population, and that settle-
ment is proceeding on undesirable lines, such
testimony would be found in the tables showing
that since 1876 holdings other than those used
for pastoral purposes have increased in
average area from 315 to 881 acres, by con-
stant and fairly regular stages, and that the
number of holdings under 50 acres has only
"increased by 1270 during the same period,
the actual totals being 12,106 in 1876 and
13,370 in 1885. All these things go to prove
that the course of settlement is not satis
factory. The address of our “ bold yeomanry,
the country’s pride,” is in too many cases
the ‘ ‘ Government Soup Kitchen, King-
street, Sydney.” Ruined by bad laws they
come to the metropolis because there is no
room for them in the country, and are sup-
ported at the public expense. Protection
for their industry would not be more costly
than is the present mode of relief, and
besides enabling honest men to maintain
their independence, would give a freehold of
prosperity to the country, and promote
settlement on’ lines universally commended.
* * *
The proofs of the second proposition, viz.,
that the increase of material wealth of the
colony is not in proportion to the increment
of p ipulation and debt, is supported by still
more convincing, though complicated testi-
mony. The balance of trade seems to have
set decidedly against New South Wales, the
imports last year being £23,3(55,19(5, while
the exports only totalled £19,541,745 —of
which £1,371,(584 was hard coin—leaving a
sum of £(5,823,451 unaccounted for by ex-
changes. Turning to the figures for 1877, it
will be found that the imports for that year
were only £1,480,775 in of exports,
but in the intervening term the tide has set
strongly against New South Wales. A »e-
-markable item of trade is that which relates
to transactions with Victoria. In 1487<5 the
imports from that colony were £2,3815,777,
and the exports £4,043,6(5(3, leaving a balance
of £1,056,889 in favour of the older colony ;
yet in 1885 the imports to New South Wales
amounted to £3,309,090, while the exports
had declined to £3,450,796, reducing the
balance to £141,100. A portion of this dif-
ference is explained by the fact that al-
though in 1870 New South Wales imported
Victorian flour aud wheat to the value of
£3090 only, the same commodities cost
£315,432 in 1885. Just here a hoary old
Freetrade falsehood obtrudes its mendacious
head. Oracles of the Reid and Pulsfokd
persuasion claim an excess of imports as an
infallible sign of profitable trade ; they re-
gard such excess as proof that the local mer-
chants have been able to secure that sum as
clear profit to themselves and their country
on their business transactions. Mr. Henry
George in his work “Protection or Free-
trade,” page 120, asserts that,
“ In a, profitable international tiade the value
of imports will always exceed the value of the
exports that pay for them, just as in a profitable
trading voyage the return cargo must exceed in
value the cargo carried out.”
Upon the words italicised one-half of the
matter in disputes between the upholders of
the rival fiscal faiths depends. If exports
do, under ordinary circumstances, pay for
imports,then clearly enough the more foreign
manufacturers stoke the country with their
goods the richer will it become, and Protec-
tionists are public enemies because they keep
these goods out. But a moment’s thought
proves the Free-trade assumption italicised
above to be utterly erroneous. The analogy
of a trading voyage is misleading, and tends
to confuse the point at issue. Exports and
imports are both sold for some form of
money—whether the money is afterwards
used for further buying is immaterial, there-
fore commodities outwards do not, and ob-
viously cannot in every case, pay for commo-
dities inwards. Look at it in another way.
Certain merchants or other persons who
may be represented as A and Co. remit to
foreign countries an equivalent of monoy,
usually in the form of bank-draft, to pay for
goods sold to them for £23,000,000 ; B and
Co. merchants and others send away goods
for which they are paid in some form
£10,000,000 ; does ‘it require argument to
prove that B and Co. do not pay f.»r the
goods A and Co. have bought, or that A and
Co. do not receive payment for the goods
which B and Co. have sold ? These trade
transactions cannot possibly balance one
another although there is not necessarily
any los 3 , nor should there be, either to the
buyers of the imports and sellers of the ex-
ports. The banks credit their London
branches or agents with the cost of what A
and Co. pay for their purchases, and debit
the same branches or agents with the money
due and paid by foreigners to B and Co.
Doing so in this case leaves a balance of
£7,000,000 due to their London agents.
This balance, however, is further modified ;
a loan is raised by the colony, and this is
debited to London, and there are other re-
mittances on both sides to affect and alter
the balance. But if a bank finds that the
drafts passing through in the course of ex-
changes leave it still over the limit witii its
London office, something must be done to
reduce the debit. Drafts on London may
be bought from other banks, and unusual
advantages may be offered to private persons
wishing ‘to sell their right of drawing on
London. These two courses are daily followed.
Banks constantly sell their right to moneys
payable to them in London, and a premium
is constantly offered to all persons
who have drafts on London for sale, while
those who wish to purchase drafts—in the
common phrase to “send money home ”
are discouraged by the imposition of a
charge of lfths per cent. —that is, a man who
wants to have £lOO paid to someone in
England, must pay £lOl 12s. Od. to induce a
bank to undertake the duty. But when all
other means of reducing a London balance
fail, the banks ship gold home to equalise
exchanges. This course involves charges
comprising freight, loss of interest, and in-
surance amounting to about 3 per cent ;
therefore, it is better for a bank to give any-
thing under that rate for drafts on England
in order to avoid the stated charges. The
shipment of coin under ordinary circum-
stances is merely a final means of making
the sum due by foreigners—whether for goods
bought by them, remittances forwarded by
letters of credit, or loans gi anted—equal io
the comssponding but unequal items per
contra. Acknowledging this truth, we find
from the Statistical Register that the coin
sent from New South Wales during 1880 5
exceeded the coin received by £0,290,512,
clear proof that the balance of exchanges
was against the colony to at lea* t that ex-
tent, despite the fact that loans to the
extentof £17,000,000 were paid to our Govern-
ment during that period. This necessary,
if extended, digression from the immediate
subject demonstrates the error of the as-
sumption that imports are paid for by
exports, and raises grave fear 1 ? as to the posi-
tion of the colony. If coin has to be so
largely shipped when the country is being
flooded with English money, the result of
the inevitable curtailment of the expenditure
of borrowed millions must be not only de-
pressing, but disastrous.
* * *
A glance at the detailed imports for the
last six years shows how helpless to supply
her own wants New Soutn Wales has become.
Such commodities as tea, opium, and rice,
which have never been locally produced,
have increased but little and in many cases
have declined ; but goods which can be and
hare been locally manufactured, show huge
increases during the period named. After
making ample allowance for the 30 per cent,
addition to population during the statedterm,
the figures show that less of the local demand
is every year supplied by the home manufac-
turer—he is being driven out of his own
market. Here are a few instances in proof :
Wearing apparel in 1880 stands at £253,000,
in 1885 £909,000 ; beer has similary ad-
vanced from £153,000 to £356,000 ; butter
from £6,000 to £99,000; candles from
£23,000 to £148,000 ; fruit from £120,000
to £245,000 ; furniture from £60,000
to £189,000; grain from £154,000 to
£347,000 ; provisions from £62,000 to
£261,000 ; and upholstery from £ll,OOO to
£91,000. These figures, coupled with the
fact that there are hundreds of unemployed
mem in every county, and thousands in the
metropolis, emphatically proves the necessity
of an immediate departure from the
calamitous policy of the past.
* * *
At the risk of becoming tedious by piling a
Pelion of warning upon an Ossa (4 lamenta-
tion we would complete this statistical
review by noticing the progress of the in-
dustries of the country. In the main,
allowing for increment of population this
“ progress ”is “ backwards.” The statistics
of woollen manufacturing excite peculiar
interest, as Mr. Pulsford has lately proved
to his own satisfaction that colonial factories
are able to compete with the world. It is
with pity for Pulsford that we observe the
figures prove that while 395,704 yards of
cloth were made in 1876, Only 187,750 yards
were produced in 1885, although mean-
time the population had increased over 50
per cent! There were nine factories in the
latter year, but of these, —ominous fact, —
three were not working. Woollen manu-
facturing and Freetrade are to one another
as a fat calf and a hungry alligator, but we
are consoled by the reflection that when the
Freetrade bladder is punched, Mr. Pulsford
will not be without remunerative occupation,
—he can go and start a woollen factory,
having already proved by eloquent articles
that this is a paying line of business. Of
other industries, fellmongering, tanning, and
wool-washing show an absolute decline since
1877, and clothing factories employ only
8 per cent more hands. The chief increases
include 3014 men employed in preparing food
more or less perishable, 4729 engaged in
building trades, and 1617 additional printers.
That 16,891 more men are stated to be en-
gaged in the tabulated industries than in
1877 will be hailed by the Freetraders with
an exultation greater than the case justifies,
for although a larger proportion than in any
former year are now employed in this way,
the fact remains that a still larger value per
head of the population, of the kind of
articles chiefly produced are now imported.
Men have been forced by the comparative
collapse of agriculture to compete for work
in the various factories, and thus it is reason-
able to suppose that the increase of hands
does not involve proportionate increased
production. And, further, the catalogue
only accounts for 40,000 men—not more
than one-fifth of the whole array of workers.
* * *
The figures quoted may serve to indicate
that New South Wales during the past de-
cade did not progress in wealth as fast in
as in population and debt. In 1876 her
population was 614,181, her debt£ll,ooo,ooo ;
the former has risenin 1885 to 957,914, the lat-
ter to £31,000,000; we look in vain for adequate
results of either increment. Agriculture is
declining, and the land is passing into the
hands of monopolists ; manufacturing indus-
try is baffled by competitors, of whom, per-
haps, the local worker has never heard.
'1 he yearly increasing adverse balance of ex-
changes is draining the country of its money
wealth, and while the State is flaming with
the fire of a ruinous policy, the Freetrade
Neros hehold it complacently the while
they fiddle away on the strings of a theory
abandoned by every civilised community in
the wide world except England and her na-
tional lackey New South Wales.
The Mount Rennie Outrage.
Nink human dingoes have been found guilty 0 f
glutting their foul appetites on one miserable
little girl. The evidence against the majority 0 f
them placed their complicity in the crime beyond
the region of doubt, and the verdict will be emi.
nently satisfactory to those of the general public
who have ventured to read the revolting record of
proceedings in. Court. But though the result of
the trial will receive public approbation, it is i m .
possible that some of its un-British incidents can
escape the strongest censure. Judge Windeyer
is a man of great physical powers and endurance
and was perhaps able to pass through the ordeal
of extended sittings without any visible distress
but that did not justify him in imposing the same
strain on others. We have his own statement to
the effect that some of the jurymen “ were not in
good health yet they were kept in Court until
3.30 a.m. on Saturday morning and obliged to re-
tunn within five and a half hours to listen to an ela-
borate review of the evidence, which extended over
10 hours and lasted until 8.20 p.m. Then they retired
to consider their verdict, and did not come to an
agreement until 11 p.m. Thus they, wearied by
previous and prolonged sittings, were in court for
18i hours on Friday, and for If hours on Satur-
day ! Either day’s work would have been suffi-
cient to severely tax the mental powers of the
strongest of men, yet some of these “ were not in
good health,” and probably not any were so accus-
tomed to midnight labours as to be able to sit up
till 3.30 a.m., without feeling “seedy ” and sleepy
wrecks, utterly unfit for a severe mental strain
next day. Yet upon their decision hung the lives
of eleven men, a weight of responsibility which
of itself would be strain enough for any sentient
human being. The same considerations might
also have prevented Judge Windeyer from put|
ting the endurance of the barristers and
solicitors in attendance to so severe a test •
for no counsel can be expected to show his best
powers for more than eight out of 21 hours.
Justice to the prisonei-3 was not less required
than vengeance against them, and it must be ad-
mitted that, brutal as was the conduct of the
guilty in this affair, the mode of their trial was—
well what was it ? What sufficient reason there
was for so forcing on the trial, it is impossible to
discover; nor can it be explained why the final
scenes in the conviction of criminals accused of
capital offences should so often eventuate about
midnight. Johns was sentenced at the ghastly
hour of half-past two in the morning, and
m the present case proceedings did not
close till midnight. Such extended sittings,
besides militating against accuracy in the
particular instance, have a reflex influence on
public sentiment, giving rise to the erroneous inn
pression that the blood of a criminal is desired by
the prosecutors—that the Crown brooks not the
delay of its vengeance. Another startling feature
of this case is the loose way in which identifica-
tion of the alleged offenders by the unhappy girl
Hicks was obtained. In the st ate in which she
lay at the Hospital, with mind and vision alike
impaired and distorted by her sufferings, it is
possible that an innocent man might have been
identified by her—as was in fact, actually done in
the cases of Oscroft and Mangan. In this case
the guilt of the prisoners w T as determined chiefly
by independent testimony, but the girl’s evidence
as to identity was nevertheless weakened by the
manner in which the police attempted to assure
themselves of the complicity of the men arrested.
Further, it is worth noticing in this case the
microscopic amount of deference which Judge
Windeyer pays to a jury's recommendation to
mercy. His personal indifference to that recom-
mendation was sufficiently shown when, in pro-
nouncing judgment, he said
I warn you to prepare for death. No hope of mercy can
1 extend to you. Be sure no weakness of the Executive, no
maudlin feeing of pity, will save you from the death you so
richly deserve.
Although promising to transmit this appeal by the
jury for mercy, to the Executive, he, as shown
above, did not hesitate to speak on behalf of the
Governor in Council and to exhibit his opinion
that no mercy should be shown. This disregard
of the jury’s wish will inevitably lead to
greater difficulty in securing future convic-
tions. Juries have a healthy agricultural
method of hewing out justice. The recom-
mendation to mercy was disregarded in Johns’
case, with the result that the brutal mur-
derers of Htrd, the Canterbury policeman,
were, a few weeks later, found guilty of
manslaughter only. Further, we must protest
against Judge Windeyer’s argument that because
the perpetrators of former outrages had escaped
therefore the present defendants must hang. To
admit that one gang of criminals must be severely
treated because other ruffians have escaped, would
involve a sliding scale of penalties making these
latter dependent upon their failure of justice in
other cases. It is right and just that the punish-
ment of Bill Sykes should depend to some ex-
tent upon Bill’s past life, but to modify it accord-
ing to the amount of crime which Fagin
has committed is manifestly unjust. The
Law’s vengeance cannot be averaged. If
Fagin, who ought to have got 10 years, happens
to be acquitted, Sykes, who is found guilty and
deserves imprisonment for life, cannot be hanged so
as to atone for Fagin’s escape. With due respect
to Judge Windeyer, The Bulletin does not
hesitate to declare that his argument on this
point is not in accordance either with law or jus-
tice. There is one other point deserving of com-
ment. On Saturday night the prisoners passed
out of the Judge’s control; their fate then rested
with the Executive Council. But while their ease
was still -s ubjudice as far as the latter body was
concerned,- the dailypapers of Sydney—the Herald
is an honorable exception—did not hesitate to
endeavour to prejudice that decision by pub-
lishing bloodthirsty leaders invoking the full
penalty of the law against the men. It is
an anomalous thing that this should be per-


itted. one of these papers had ventured
to publish such articles while the case was before
a jury who were not amenable to any influence,
they would certainly have been fined ; but when
the lives of the same criminals depend upon the
decision of a Council which in at least all
other matters is strongly susceptible to popu-
lar influence, the floodgates of sentiment are
opened and a torrent of argument, invective, and
appeal pour 3 upon the Executive. It is a disgrace
to the Australian political system that the lives of
men under capital sentences are made the shuttle-
cock of political parties, and a thing to be openly
wrangled over by hysterical newspapers and de-
signing politicians.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“For the Po’r Heathen.”
At the command of the Archbishop of Canterbury
and at the solicitation of many other grave and
reverend seigniors, the prayers of Anglicans
throughout the world were devoted on Sunday
last— or at least were invoked—on behalf of
foreign missions. “A girdle of prayer for the
Daw heathen encircled the world,” as one sleek
apostle eloquently remarked. We hope the
heathen will profit by this intercession, but the
hope hardly seems justifiable if its consummation
is to depend on the habits and characters of their
intorcessoi'3. This saintly archbishop, if he chose
to give up all his income beyond that required by
his bodily necessities—and if lie believes in his
creed he ought to give up all his wealth—could
equip more missionaries and sustain more mission
stations than all the Anglicans together do at pre-
sent How likely he is to do this, the record of
his predecessors may witness. The history of his
Sec shows that former holders of his office
swindled the State out of its revenues at the rate
of over £lOOO a year, besides taking all of the
£l5 000 allowed them, until at length it was found
necessary by the authorities to require annual
returns of revenue instead of septennial returns as
formerly, and as the servants of God in past
years had a habit of granting long leases at a rent
of (say) £5 per year in consideration of a bonus of
(say) £lO,OOO, thus robbing their successors of
most of the valueof these endowments in re\ ersion
the power of granting leases at all for any term
above two years wastaken from them by law. Pre
vious holders of this archdiocese have been thus
declared by Parliament to be devoid of
common honesty, and therefore unworthy of
the most ordinary 7 confidence. Archbishop Ben-
son may be an honest man, we have no
evidence on this point, but we do know that he
receives £15,000 a year, and aspire 3 to entertain
princes and aristocrats : the sancta simplicitas
of the Great Missioner is foreign to his ecclesias-
tical magnificence, and the “paw heathen, who
are without knowledge or intelligence, are not
more alien in mode of life to the carpenter s son
than is this luxurious Archbishop. And the
bishops are like unto him. The diocese of Mel-
bourne was hawked round England before anyone
could be got to accept it at £2OOO a year and perks.
And among the clergy, although there are many
noble self-sacrificing men, there are yet as many
confessed scoundrels as in any other trade or pro-
fession except, perhaps, welshing and politics.
And among the rank and file of the church the
fashionable church ” —the fruits of true religion
can scarcely be found. Those who are full of
good works and faith” are everywhere the excep-
tion. Does this seem a spiteful statement ? How
is it then, that after every sermon the collection-
plate must circulate in full view of the congrega-
tion that Smith may be shamed into putting in
something because Brown is watching him ? How
is it that the dice-box must rattle, and ceaseless
solicitations for donations be made, before a church
is built? And how is it that, as we showed last
week, the majority of worshippers kneel before a
mortgaged altar, and the parson preaches from a
pawned pulpit ? Frantic appeals for subscriptions
come from the pulpit with the same regularity as
they appear in the columns of the provincial press.
And of this money 99 per cent, at least goes to
maintain the parson or the church. The poor are
neither sought, saved, nor relieved. What bles-
sings or benefit other than financial do
the bishops and clergy receive from
their Gospel ? What advantage do the large
majority of the laity gain, save occupation fox
Sunday, a certificate of respectability, and a
place for the exhibition and inspection of new
fashions ? But the “ paw heathen” wants none of
these things. Hunting for food prevents their
suffering from ennui, respectability tht y have
never heard of, and their fashions in dress ne\ er
alter. Who shall say that the heathen in his
ignorance is less CHRisi’-like than the Arch-
bishop ? Or that the Christianity of modern
congregations is nobler than the heathendom of
savages? True worship of the Great Original
would lift the worshipper to a place infinitely
above either class, but at present it would seem
more natural for the heathen to blame the
hypocrisy, self-righteousness, and insincerity of
modern Pharisees, than for the latter to pity the
ignorance of the “ paw heathen.” Our best hope is
that Christianity may do more for the savage
than in these ages it does for Archbishop, bishop,
parson, or layman of the Anglican or any other
church.
+
“ Dishing the Whigs.”
By recent speeches at Dartford and elsewhere
Lord Randolph Churchill has forced himself to
the head of his party. Where he chooses to lead,
Salisbury and Tddesleigh must follow. Present
indications portend a dishing of the Whigs such as
Disraeli was wont to delight in ; but whatever is
to be the future policy of the Tories in this direc-
tion it is certain that Lord Randolph is to be the
future leader. Some of the Tory journals stand
aghast at “ Churchill's Radicalism,” but they
too must follow him, or become utterly separated
from the politics of the day. The result of this
Tory bid for popular support will be to advance
this party to the position formerly held by the
Liberal, who in turn will occupy the ground
hitherto taken by t he Radicals ; practically the
Liberals and Radicals will unite although mem-
bers of the two followings may retain their dis-
tinctive party names, and Socialism will obtain
complete recognition as a political force. Lord
Randolph's advance on the path of reform may
fairly be taken as an indication that the rumblings
of revolution have already caught his acute ear ;
he, with sagacity that entitles him to political
leadership, was keen enough to perceive that
the national motive power was rapidly pass-
ing into possession of the masses; it was
clear that his party, the Aristocracy, having to
a great extent lost their only source of
power in the alienation from them of the sympathy
of the populace., were no longer able to rule on their
old lines; the choice was, to him, between the
Devil of Radicalism and the deep sea of political
effacement. In choosing the latter he was time to
the traditions of his party. Beaconsfield,
venerated as he is by the fiercest Tories of to-day,
did precisely the same. Had he striven only to
maintain the Toryism of his predecessors, his
name would never have been recorded by fame,
and his party would have passed out of history :
it was his skill in leading the Tories down step by
step from the dais they once occupied which
earned him lasting repute. The Liberals at the
beginning of his career were more Conservative
than the Tories at his death ; those who applauded
him in early life would have stood aghast at his
achievements in the closing years of his career.
Yet Churchill dare not now attempt to enforce
the policy, even in foreign affair.. l , of this departed
chief; he dare not, for instance, call upon his
party to withstand the advance of the Muscovite
in Turkey, although in Beaconsfield’s time even
the Liberals would have enthusiastically answered
such a call, Tempora mutantur et non mutamur
in min, is the Tory motto. The centre of political
force is gravitating towards the masses, and the
Tories must follow or else lose their power utterly
and for ever.
♦
A Bishop and a Blasphemer.
A few weeks ago the Anglican Bishop of Liver-
pool, with much unnecessary snuffle, was putting
the conundrum, “ Why don’t the rural poor come
to church ? ” to all and sundry of his hearers. He
disregarded the obvious answer : he could not
tell the wealthy portion of his flock that the Angli-
can Church has ever helped the rich and power-
ful in their oppression of the needy and helpless,
and that therefore it was that the poor hated with
a iust and righteous hate the church to whose in-
fluence they rightly ascribed much of their
misery. The Bishop of Salisbury pursues the
subject one step further, and inquires why there
should be any poor persons at all. He asks :
“ Why should there he this measureless contrast, this un-
equal distribution of good things? That was a question
which they asked again and again, and if no sufficient reply
w as made there would gradually be gathered up such a flood
of bittorresentment as would sweep away in a revolution not
only the signs but also the homes of religion itself."
These are noble and reasonable words, and his
lordship’s vision of a coming revolution should
have shown him the viciousness of the present
system. If men in their “ bitter resentment ” of
wrong are to sweep away the “ homes of religion
itself” ho should be ready to acknowledge tlmt
religion is responsible for many of the terrible
evils now existent. The evident corollary of his
statement is that men, and clergymen especially,
are the authors of present misery. Far from
acknowledging this, he twaddled on until he fur-
nished a blasphemous answer to his own query by
saddling God with the whole fum of the calamity
which he deplored : there was, he said,
“Only one answer that could be made to the question with
any approach to reason, and that was that Goi) had made
the lots of men unequal in order that the rich might help
the poor."
The will of God ! That is the cause to which the
English clergy have attributed all the social crimes
of the present and past centuries. The will of
God has bee 1 declared by these oracles to
be guilty of fomenting war, of ordering
starvation to slay unnumbered millions, of
allowing bishops and archbishops to wallow in
stolen and accursed wealth, and now Salisbury
charges God Himself with having made “ the lots
of men unequal in order that the rich might help the
poor.” We and other profane persons credited the
Almighty God with more sense—we must speak
plainly—than that. He surely must have known
that the willingness of men to help their poorer
brethren decreases as their wealth increases ; He
must have known that such an arrangement as
Salisbury suggests could only lead to appalling
vice among the wealthy, and illimitable misery
among the poor. And when He found, as Salis-
bury' admits, that His plans had utterly failed—
that the “ rich did not help the poor,” it is surely
strange that He did not Himself alter the system,
instead of leaving it to men with the red hands of
revolution to sweep away the work so darkly
disfigured by botchery, and condemned by
its continual results. It is impossible to imagine
greater blasphemy than is contained in the
bishop’s dictum. The distressed poor, who, writh-
ing in the agonies of starvation, say that there is no
God or else he would not permit them sotosuffer,
are less profane than Salisbury, who says that
this measureless misery is the “Will of Gop.”
According to this latter oracle, reforms which
would lift the destitute to a position of comfort
and happiness would be contrary to the wish of a
Divine Author, who desires that suffering and sin
shall abound as under the present system “ in
order that the rich may help the poor,”—that
the lordly Bishop of Salisbury shall pocket his
£5OOO a year and perks, while Lazarus is at his
door, dying for want of a loaf. But can it be that
Salts bub y has made a verbal mist ake ? Isitpossible
that he meant to attribute this merciless cruelty
and disastrous blundering to the Chief of the
Devils instead of to the Ruler of the Kingdom of
Righteousness ? If not, then must he certainly be
branded as a brutal and blasphemous bishop.
When a priest or prelate lays the wood of his
mighty intellect on to the ball of political contro-
versy, there is generally trouble for somebody.
Cardinal Manning is the last who has essayed
this feat, and it is the question of assisted immi-
gration to Australia which he agitates. He, in a
letter to the Times, deprecates Mr. Norton’s
action in discouraging emigration to New South
Wales, and advocates “a system of assisted emi-
gration by means of lands granted or sold by the
colonial Government.” Let us reflect. The Car-
dinal can have no knowledge of the state of the
colonies at the present time ; he cannot tell
whether the statements of Mr. Norton, which he
deprecates, are true or false, and certainly does
not know whether there is any land in Australia
suitable for settlement of the kind which he advo-
cates. To aid him in deciding on the question,
he has nothing but a large stock of acquired
ignorance. To parallel the Cardinal s action Mr.
Norton should write to the Times urging the
adoption of a new fashion in birettas, a new mix-
ture of incense, and an improved brew of XXX
holy water. Then matters would be about square.
Whenever a prelate mounts the platform of poli-
tics he must of necessity make an ass of himself.
He is so accustomed to spouting his little twaddle
without fear of contradiction that he at length
aspires to omniscience, and becomes too conceited
to borrow the aid of ascertained facts for the use
of what little reason he may still possess. There
have been many illustrations of this rule in New
South Wales recently : Dr. Jefferis has orated
on Socialism, Dr. Barry on the Siudan expedi-
tion, the Rev. E. D. Madgwick on Political Leap-
frog, and very many reverend gentlemen have been
known to display their inspired stupidity on the
pages of the Herald and Telegraph.
♦
A \ t oung Victorian has been writing to the Pall
Mall Gazette to contradict Delegate Norton’s
statement that squatters are the bane of Australia.
The young Victorian maintains that “ squatters
drive their flocks and herds into the wilderness
(evidentlya student of the Scriptures, this), where
they face the blacks, the dingoes, and the droughts.
After overcoming all these obstacles, after risking
their lives, and in many eases ruining their health,
is it a great matter, or do they deserve less than
that they should reap lasting and substantial
benefits ?” It surprises us not to hear that this
dear young Victorian is the son of a rich squatter.
How artlessly he bewrayeth himself ? By “ lasting
benefits ” he means a life of ease and plenty for
generations of descendants of the original “ iden-
tity ” who faced blacks and destroyed dingoes.
This sucking autocrat can’t see—bless him !—that
the pioneer owes just as much to the soil as the
soil owes to him, and that at his death he and his
country are quits. No. It never occurs to him
that the bold pioneers became bold pioneers of
their own free will, or (in many cases) in mild ex-
piation of past offences —that they paid nothing
for the land and were entitled to no more than
they could produce from it. Lasting benefits,
forsooth ! No man can reap benefits which last—
as far as ho is personally concerned —any longer
than he lasts himself. The opener-up of territory
is entitled to make his pile off the territory. Ho
is entitled to bequeath his pile—the work of his
own hands—to anybody else. He is furthermore
entitled to lay up treasures in heaven, for nobody
suffers thereby. But as ho didn't make Clod’s
earth he is not entitled to bequeath a few miles of
it to some kid-gM d “squatter.” This latter is
the institution against which Mr. Norton has
lifted up his voice. Nobody says that the pioneer
is the bane of Australia, save only the poor black
that “obstacle” which the pioneer “over-
comes.” The squatter possessing the soil by right
of birth, and not even employing it to the best
advantage, is the bane of Australia. And the art-
less “ hereditary ” prattle of this young Victorian
is instructive, as showing how the squattocracy is
already beginning to claim a kind of divine right
to “ lasting and substantial benefits.”
“The Vag.”
It is expected that if the “Vagabond” ever
returns to Melbourne he will recognise nobody
under the rank of a C.M.G. llut there is a
growing suspicion among his circles that he never
intends to return at all if ho can help it. Wo
should ho clothed in sackcloth, and up to the ears
in an ash-bin if this wore the case, but we will
not contemplate it. In his account of the banquet
given to the Colonial Visitors, at Glasgow, he
says:—“M. Beaugrand (Mayor of Montreal,
whom, of course, he subsequently discovered to
be an “old friend”) made one good point when
he said that the interests of the French Canadians
were hound up with those of Great Britain ; and
if at times the Heights of Abraham and Mont-
calm came into their minds, the recollection could
be easily softened by the remembrance that
W illiam the Conqueror came over from France to
Great Britain.” If that be the case all we have
to say is that the French Canadians are easily
satisfied. It only remains now for some repre-
sentative Irishman, charged with champagne, to
state that the memory of the Boyne is wiped
out by the recollection that that fine old Mile-
sian, Fin McCoul defeated a Saxon giant and
afterwards ate him, to make the safety of
the empire secure for ever. But to return
to Mr. Julian Thomas. There are people
who profess to discover a tinge of bitterness in his
later communications and ascribe it to his disap-
pointment at not being nominated Prince of Bul-
garia in the place of poor Alexander. This must,
of course, be the outcome of envy at Julian’s social
successes in Yurrup. He is like all other great
men in regard to having many enemies. One of
these says that his conversation, when he stretches
his legs out in the Yorick Club once more, will be
something after this fashion : —•
Yoßickclubber : “And so you conversed with the Prince
of Wales, Mr. Thomas?”
Julian: “ Converse with him! I dined with him nearly
every day, deah boy. Couldn't bear to have me out of his
sight. I remember one day he said to me, ‘ Julian,’ he
said, ‘ what do you advise me to do about this invitation to
go out to Australia?’ ’Wales,’ I answered, ‘(we were like
brothers) don’t go till the place is aired properly. They are
very lojal there, but low—dem low. No refinement of
tone ; no culchaw. I myself have had a feahful struggle to
accustom myself to the rude conditions of life out there, but
I have dissembled. The egotism of those Australians is ap-
palling. I have been so much distressed by it that, as you
may observe, I have run into the opposite extreme. But, if
you should ever determine to visit the colonies, my deah
Wales, I will be happy to giveyou as many letters of introduc-
tion as you may require, though they are hardly necessary,
for you only have to mention my name to meet with a warm
welcome anywhere between Hobson’s Bay and the Gulf of
Carpentaria. ' ”
Yorickclubbkr (;vith awe): “ And is it true that Lord
Salisbury consulted you about the New Hebrides question ’<”
Julian (leaning back in his chair and laughing softly):
“ True? My dear sir, you amuse me. Why, he sent all over
London to find me so that I should attend a Cabinet Meeting
on the subject. Remarkably discerning man, Sawlsbury!
Told him I would undertake to clear the French out of the
islands in ten days if he would authorise me to raise a regi-
ment of volunteers in Victoria. Seemed very much im-
pressed. Shook me by the hand several times and said with
tears in his eyes ‘Thomas, you have saved the Empire.
What can Ido for you ? Ask what you please—ask for a
coronet if you like —there are no dukedoms vacant just now
or you might have one with pleasure i’ I told him that the
honor of his friendship was sufficient reward for me. Plain
Julian Thomas I was born and plain Julian Thomas I would
die. He seemed greatly touched, and large tears chased each
other down his cheek and fell with a heart-rending flop into
his whisky. It was a pathetic sight to see that haughty
statesman weep. ‘ Excuse this weakness,’ he said at length,
brushing the tears away with his coat-sleeve, ‘ this is the first
time in a long political career that I have found a man re-
fuse anything, and the shock has unmanned me?’ Noble
fellow, Saw's jury.”
If this is to he regarded as a true sample of the
style in which Julian will talk when he comes
back, the Yorick Club should double its entrance-
fees immediately his name appears in the passen-
ger.list. People will mortgage their houses and
pawn their clothes to become members just to
have the chance of listening to the gorgeous
creature.
Before Japan was opened to Christian
civilisation there were only 11 intoxicating drinks
known in that country. Now, over 200 such
drinks are in use, and a Japanese drunk is a com-
pound. complex, comminuted fracture of the
bones Of the moral code.
The youthful bandits hungering for fame
and riches who last week strode into the National
Bank, Albert Park, Melbourne, have up to now
only succeeded in retaining their grip of fame.
They were attired in black masks and carried
ferocious-looking firearms. The sub-manager was
at home and saw the desperadoes enter, and, sus-
pecting that their intentions were not strictly
honourable, he drew his trusty revolver and opened
the engagement. He fired and missed, one of the
robbers replied and missed. Then the banker and
the burglar continued firing and missing until. the
other youth had collected most of the loose capital,
and till half the population of the suburb
had gathered round the premises, after which the
gallant highwaymen withdrew. One was care-
fully intercepted by the crowd, but the other, a
more wily criminal, went and hid in a policeman’s
3 r ard, where, strange to say, he was immediately
arrested with £3OO in his possession. The hanker,
Gordon Dare, though he owns a three-volumc-
novel name, is apparently a worse shot with a re-
volver than a blind Chinaman. He will be pro-
moted, get a substantial rise in his screw, with
house, wood, water, and hired-girl found, like the
Simpson’s Road hero,
CORRESPONDENCE
“ A. Kalkedoon ” : These lines from your poem
are particularly fetching :
"After lunch 'twas scarcely wise
To lingering gaze in lustrous eyes
Of such a blue ethereal.”
Still we confess that we don't understand them. Why, for
instance, the 11 lustrous eyes ’’ of a “ blue ethereal " are so
especially dangerous “after lunch ” we are at a loss to cor*
ceive, nor can we imagine what a “blue ethereal" r<-
sembleth unto. You had better let the poetry racket slide,for
Though your mind may lie studded with stars of thought
And your love as strong as you say,
You can’t construct poetry no more than a goat
Because you ain't built that way.
“ Gael" : “There is hardly a statement in that article rft
N.S.W. in the life iu.an i>er that can be classed as untrue.
Yet w_e believe that it ij calculated to convey an erroneous
impression. That Australia is the bett couitry in the woild
for an industrious man of general abilities wo do firmly be*
lieve, present depression and political blundering to the cor.*
trary notwithstanding... ,“C.T. C. ’ (Melbourne) : 'Keminds
ub of Passover cake. Very thin, no flavouring, and rather
insipid “ Jones" : Hogwash of just about average quality
....“An Artizan” : Idea good, but lines weak and faulty
...P. B. Graham ” : Glad cf your criticism on subject to
which you allude “ J I’.” : We have not space to traverse
all your statements, ( specially as you seem to have done very
much more reading than thinking. You regard Protection
as a new device, but it is on the contrary co-eval with the exis
tence of distance. Why any other protection than that of
distance is now required arises from the fact that
natural laws have been abrogated by inven-
tions which annihilate time and space “ Quam-
bone Swagnan”: There is nothing tangible in your
article unless it be assumed that the magistrate and con-
stable were incompetent to perform their duties, and on this
point you mpply no reliable evidence.... “J. 1). Hughes":
The Duke of Cambridge as Commander-in-Ohief of the
British Army receives .£6,700 per annum, and is allowed
£4,250 more for bis secretaries - General Wolseley £6,700.
Lieut.-Generals reserve £5 10s. per day, Colonels, £1 l()s:
the pay for soldiers is from Is. 3d., down to Is. per day.
Admirals reoeive from £l,OOO to 4,000 a year, Captains from
£4OO to £6OO, seamen from £l7 to £29, boys £9 to £ll
“ G.J.8.” (Eugowra): May use some of them “Truthful
Thomas” : Your mendacity can give 141bs. and a five lengths-
beating to your wit....“ P.W.D.”: Yours is the voice of
righteous indignation, but it speaks not in poetry “ W.P.”:
Sydney Herald politics are Toryism and snuffle. Its pro
prietors describe it as “ a Liberal organ." It is liberal
—to the extent cf £lOO,OOO a year—to them....
“ J.R.A. (N'ewtown): Utterls incorrect. The New Zealand
public debt was £62 4s. sd. per head of the population, the
Victorian £2B 17s. 3d., and that of New South Wales £3l 7s.
Bd. per head at the end of 1885 "C. Parsons”: The Bulle-
tin isn’t a medical paper,and so can t print your two columns.
All we cm say is that ’tis a holy and wholesome thought for
a man to practise smoking in this life, for, according to many
of the clergy, the chances are that that is what he’ll be doing
in the next “No Sympathiser,” &c. :We have only to say
what we have always said: that the idea that the use of the
lash will repress offences against the sex and young children
would be utterly fallaci'us, even if such offences were not
often the outcome of cerebral disease; that there is no special
justification for the use of the lash in Australia, seeing that
all civilised nations have abandoned it, and that it has been
discarded even in the British army and navy; that it indirectly
encourages emotional crime by piling up the sum-total of
criminal sensation; and that, to be logical, if you flog
brutal rneD, you must also flog brutal women (as they did in
Sydney not so very many years ago). We believe The
Bulletin will be in a position to show by a Parliamentary
return, to be called for when the N.S.W. Assembly meets,
that there have been more prosecutions for indecent offences
in proportion to the country's population during the years
since the Flogging Act became law fhan during the four or
five previous years “R.H.” (Sofala): What have we ever
done to you that you should send ns 33 verses about a thing
that is as old as the megatherium ? You say—
“ And there Australia’s man is seen,
Who champion of the world has been
Since as a sculler he did rip,
The prize from out of Hanlan’s grip.”
Beach is here, now, and being as he himself says of “ inde-
pendent means," intends devoting his spare time to killing
poets “C. Baker": la arsenical poisoning, no remedy
thoroughly avails except moist peroxide of iron, and calcined
magnesia, which, taken together, immediately after the
poison has been swallowed, form with the arsenic in the
stomach an insoluble combination. This should be followed
by large doses of any kind of sweet oil. But we don’t
advise you to take any “Rough on Rats." “James Braith
waite ” : The sub-title of your poem " Henry Kendall, poet,
&c.” reads unpleasantly like the E. News’ copyright police
court reports : “Michael O Hooligan, shoemaker, Irish ; 40s.
or 7 d'iys.” But the gr. atest oversight of all lies in the fact
that no mention is made of Lord Caringtonhaving conferred
immortality on the bard by uncovering his marble, and
speaking in his favour on that occasion. Where was Alfred
Allen’s aboriginal muse that she did not break forth in a
lofty poean beginning :
“ Good Carington ! thou cometh forth to grace this happy
day,
“Accept, good Lord, our hearty chee:s—Now, boys,
‘ Hooray ! Hooray ! ’ ”
....“ E. 8.”: The fact that Colonial Secretary Dibbs wouldn’t
give the Government clerks a holiday on the occasion of
Beach’s return doesn’t prove him to be a tyrant. It merely
shows that he’s not a fool. Do you think that if Bubear, tie
Londoner, came out here and beat Beach work would be
stopped in the London public offices on the day of Bubear’s
return to England? You are an old fogey, and probably
lived in Sydney when it was convulsed by any dog-fight for a
stake over forty shillings.... “S. E. Asprey ” : Asyour letter
consists entirely of arguments winch Freetraders have
already used ad nauseam, we do not consider it worthy of
space. You say that Protectionists and Freetraders do not
convince one another because they “ are guilty of a too free
use of facts.” That is not so. The real reason is that the
latter argue upon theory, the former from facts of every-day
life. Thus, in replying to our article you do not notice our
figures and facts, but suppose that in one country a given
amount of labour will produce 200 of animal food ajnd 100 of
vegetable food, and that another country yields 200 of vege-
table and 100 of animal food for the same labour ; thereupon
you adduce some very satisfactory conclusions. You will
never become a Protectionist until you give up soaring
among the clouds of theory and come down to the level of a
matter-of-fact world. Freetrade is theoretically perfect, but
it allows cot for abrogations of natural laws by human skill,
and does not stoop to a consideration of things as they really
are now-a-days in this world... .“Subscriber” : We don’t
know who the new-chum girls are who are working at Boora-
something Station for 3s. 4d. a week. And we don’t want to
know them, as we suppose the baker and the policeman have
secured their all of love long ago “Shakes”: We don’t
care to hear any more about that elopement of the military
mail and the parson’s wife. Such things happen too fre-
quently to be interesting “ Clashmore": Please call
“Quid Nunc”; Will digest at leisure....” Troubled": Yes,
you could be prosecuted if you married again. The
fact of her having given false particulars to the clergyman at
her marriage, while it renders her liable to prosecution, does
nut invalidate the contract. Your best—and, in fact, only-
course will be to proceed for a divorce if, as you say, she has
deserted you and is liviDg in adultery. However, do not for-
get that to obtain a divorce you must come into court with
clean hands "P.T.W.”: George's book is like all other
Freetrade volumes in that it depends entire’y on theory, but
it is unlike them in that it is written with a force and vigour
that no previous author has been able to command....
“ C.0.F.”: Your arguments have some weight. The matter
referred to is not to be hastily decided... .“Blink Bonnie”;
Your sentiments repose in a basket under our table.,..
“N.5.F.,” “H.P.5.,” “W.H.,” and a score of others will
receive due attention next week.


The keferee
Mr. Benbow’s 10-tonner, the Harpy, is for
sale by auction on Thursday 2nd Dec. The Harpy
has never had a fair show under Mr. Benbow, and,
should she fall into good racing hands, she will
prove a big addition to the fast craft in Sydney
harbour.
* * *
Mr. William Grant, the enthusiastic
yachtsman who was identified with the little
Cutty Sark and the Oithona, has, we regret to
hear, been compelled by ill-health to retire from
the N. S. W. Civil Service. Mr. Grant, at latest,
was in England, and is not likely to return to the
colonies.
* * *
The Graeco-Roman wrestling match be-
tween John Connors and Andre Christol, the
recently-arrived American wrestler, came off on
Saturday last at the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne. For lh. lTimin. the men wrestled with-
out either having the advantage, but Christol
then made the mistake of being rubbed down,
whereupon Connors, who is much the stronger,
though much less scientific a man, got
a firmer hold and thus obtained the
first fall. After a quarter of an hour’s spell the
men tacked each other again, and after 3|min.
fiard work Connors secured the second fall and
the match. Miller is to meet Cannon in a Graeco-
Roman wrestling match, and after that is con-
cluded Cannon says he will think about wrestling
Connors.
* * *
William Clarke, the winner of the cham-
pion belt in Melbourne, on the presentation of the
trophy said he is willing to run Malone for £lOO
aside. R. Stevens, on the same occasion, offered
to run any man in Australia, bar Clarke, 100
yards for £2OO aside.
* * *
Both temples of the noble art in Sydney
were well patronised on Saturday night. At
Foley’s the meeting between the elder Fuller and
Murphy was disappointing, as the latter was not
“on the job” and merely played round his
opponent. Gorman, as usual, went at it hammer
and tongs with Vine, and persuaded the latter
that he had had enough. Molloy let Burgess off
light, and “Professor” Jackson and Tom Taylor
wound up the entertainment. At Dooley and
Seymour’s the opening bout was between Mul-
holland and Nelson, the former having the call
from first to last. The usual “ talent” made up a
lively evening’s entertainment, and at the finish
the proprietors, Dooley and Seymour, gave a
scientific four rounds.
* * *
At the present moment Peter Jackson,
the Australian P. R. champion, can find no fresh
men to conquer. Tom Lees has completely dis-
appeared from the boards since his defeat by
Jackson, Farnan does not seem to have the
necessary backers to make a match, and Stewart
is not thought anxious to conclude negotiations.
Jack Dempsey, the renowned American middle-
weight, is expected in Australia shortly, but his
advent will not be of any service to Jackson, as
Dempsey limits his challenge to All Comers at
twelve stone, a weight much below the lightest
the “ Professor ” can fight.
* *
Young Gorry, the popular light-weight,
received severe injuries in a fall off Lesbia at
Bendigo.
The A.J.S. Bank, without Turner and
M'Donnell, made short work of the Bank of
N.S.W. on Saturday last. With their best eleven
we suppose the Joint Stockers could give a start
and abeating to the best crew from the Associated
Banks.
* * *
First class trotting stock means dollars in
the States. At a sale in October the stallion
Pancoast brought £5600 ; a sixteen-year-old
stallion named Nutwood fetched £llOO ; a four-
year-old colt, Wickliffe, £l3BO ; and a yearling,
Bonnie Wood, realized £B4O.
..... * *
Neil Matterson’s trouble is—well, let us be
mild and call it “ over-confidence.” No sooner
does he put foot upon Australian soil than he is
reported to have said he would soon meet. Beach
on the Parramatta, when he had hopes of beating
the Champion. So far Matterson has not shown
that he is “ in the same street ” with Beach.
* * *
At the Sydney trotting races on Saturday
Garryowen won the Grand Distance Handicap
with great ease. The imported Yankee horse,
Huon, a really magnificent animal, was ex-
hibited ; the complicated arrangement of toe-
weights, heel-straps, leads and buckles, &c.
round his feet, would puzzle a mechanic. The
imported Yankee driver, Baldwin, did not score a
win, much to the delight of the crowd, who seemed
to resent the fuss that had been made about him
in the papers. However, he got all that could be
got out of Lillie G. in her heat.
* * *
Now that the “Bathurst burr,” young
Charlie Turner, seems about to fill the trundling
void caused by Spofforth’s marital arrangements,
we remember that he has left his mark on the un-
finished hencoops of old England before now.
Playing against Shaw’s team in 1881, Turner, then
19 years old, lowered the whole of the English-
men’s wickets in their second innings. Young
Charlie comes from good sporting stock; his
father, the present landlord of the Bathurst Royal,
having been a capital bat in his day, while his
grandfather, familiarly known as the “Duke,’
was one of the staunchest supporters of athletics
of every kind in the Western districts of N.S.W.
* * *
A Masterton (N.Z.) cockatoo-farmer, who
never attended racc-mecßngs, never heard of
“The Derby,” and didn’t know the name of one
racehorse in the colony, about a fortnight before
t,lio Christchurch races dreamed that a horse
called Spado Guinea had won the principal event.
Having related the singular dream to some friends
he was greatly surprised to hear there was such a
horse in existence. The old cocky was induced
after much persuasion to risk £2 to £5O on the
strength of his dream, and was still more exten-
sively surprised when he heard that Spade Guinea
—a rank outsider —had won the race, and he
himself had also won a useful little cheque.
Those old fossils have all the luck every time.
* * *
More woe. A Sydney poet named Jaw
has poured a pint of kerosene over his hair and
set himself on fire, and under the influence of
this mild stimulant he wrote the following, and
many other verses, about Champion Beach: —
“His promises have not been broken, though anxious
thoughts prevails
But now he’s coming back with all honors ro his home in
New South Wales.
About t 'e last week in November, if the Lusitania has
favoring gales,
Lands Beach, the champion of the world, in sunny New
South Wales! ’
This poem has had a large circulation, and a
good deal of enthusiasm has been created in
asylums and cheap boarding-houses. Ten
thousand copies went round in Victoria alone,
and the whole colony is weighed down with
drivel. Perhaps after all, the poet is worthy of
the cause. It is almost too much that this whole
glorious continent should stand on its head with
its heels sticking up in the air, and whoop, be-
cause a man has sat on a hoard and shoved it
through the water faster than another man could
shove another board.
* ‘ *
At a farewell wine-party given to Cham-
pion Beach at the London Criterion, Barney
Thompson ‘ ‘ hoped that Beach’s immediate pre-
decessor as champion would be as good a man as
Beach.” There was a general impression that
Hanlan was somehow alluded to, but as the
Criterion doesn’t boast a dictionary, and as nobody
could spell predecessor, the question was shelved
indefinitely.
* * *
It is stated on very good authority that a
well known sporting writer on the staff of a
Sydney paper won £2,500 over the Melbourne
races. It is further stated that he has devoted a
portion of the wealth towards building a Refuge
for decayed Reporters, with a shed at the back
for Poets. May the news he true !
* * *
Anont Beach’s contention that he was
“ stale ” when he rowed Gaudaur, it is only fair
to say that more than one London paper favoured
the same idea.
* * *
William Cook, ex-champion billiard player,
went “through the Court” recently. “Cook’s
Rooms ” in- Regent-street, London, used to be the
fashionable haunt of rooks and pigeons alike.
Small fortunes have been won and lost over his
tables, and " pool ” (3 and 1 in sovereigns) was a
regular institution. Now, according to Cook’s
statement, the average takings in his saloon have
dropped to £5 a week. The world is growing
wiser, apparently, and prefers to take its billiards
at private houses, where the marker doth not cor-
rupt and thieves do not stroll in promiscuously
and steal.
* * *
The Globe says that “ M'Whinnie’s horse,
St. Vincent, is eating its head off in the Supreme
Court before Mr. Justice Faucett.” For one
awful, hair-elevating moment we feared it might
have been the Judge’s head that moke was chew-
ing up.
* * *
The aptest-named horse in Australia is
Curiosity, who lobbed in for a steeplechase at
Sandhurst. He is the very sort of parti-coloured
steed which circus-proprietors specially rear and
prize. Nature evidently intended Curiosity to
career around a ring with a lovely spangle-skirted
lady dancing a sailor’s hornpipe on his back.
Nevertheless, the horse is a good ’un and a mag-
nificent fencer. Curiosity was originally named
Duplicate—a most ridiculous cognomen. He
couldn’t be duplicated in the whole wide world.
* * *
At the Sydney Driving Park Club—Little
Boy (to angry parent who has backed a stiff ’un)
“Pa! why don’t your horse go faster?” “Because
there’s something stopping him, Jimmy.” “What’s
stopping him, Pa ?” “ Money, Jimmy !”
* * *
AT THE TROTTING MATCHES.
Could have won it / he’d tried,
There’s the if;
So I lost my cash and sighed
“ He was stiff.”
* * *
Cricket match at River View College last
Wednesday—the local club v. St. Leonards Ist
eleven. The St. Leonards eleven generally con-
sists of two men and a pick-up ; this time there
were a man and two pick-ups. The presence of
the extra pick-up frightened the River View
players so much that they declined to play the
match. They knew the pick-ups were probably
better men than the players who, after promising
to come, threw their club and their antagonists
over.
* * *
A writer in the Melbourne Spoktsman
eloquently opposes lowering the steeplechase
jumps at Flemington on the ground that when the
fences are lowered the riders try to race over them,
and, when they get falls, invariably fetch great
grief. He omits to point out, however, any
reason to make us believe that if the fences’ were
raised or kept as they are now the ridex-s would
“take a pull” at their leaps. He asserts that when
Adam Lindsay Gordon and other amateurs who
used to ride over the Ballarat course, which, as he
says, is stiffer than are the coxirses the races are
now rxxn over, accidents were comparatively rare
because the men did not race at the fences. But
the old order changeth giving place to the new.
The steeplechase rider of to-day must race at his
fences whatever their height, or stand down. And
a horse galloped almost to a standstill is almost as
likely to fall over a low fence as a high one. How-
ever, no doubt something should he done, as we
have had too many fatal accidents lately.
Abigail says he makes himself felt. So
does a flea.
More political wheel-greasing is reported
from the Far West. Among the documents in the
present case is a wire from a member of the
N.S.YV. Assembly laconically inquiring of a man
who wished to get the contract for conveying
some of the unemployed from Bourke to Menindie
—“lf I get them what will you give?” And
when the contractor replied that he would give
5 per cent, commish. the member wired again,
“Got your tender accepted. Particulars tele-
graphed. Make quick passage.” Thus the active
member employs each shining hour by landing his
little commish. and even the humble 5 per cent
he spurneth not.
An Indictment of Judge Windeyer.
Writes Mudgee Taylor in tho Sydney Daily
Telegraph :—“ In sentencing the Mount Rennie
prisoners, 1 lis Honor Mr. j ustiee Windeyer referred
to the Wyndham outrage, and enumerated it
among a list of embezzlements from the execu-
tioner which, in his opinion, gave ruffianism a
license culminating in the present outrage. The
subsequent incidents of this case shows how dan-
gerous is the dictum advanced by Judge Windeyer.
In the Wyndham (or Bt ga) case seven young men
were convicted of a concerted rape upon ah old
woman. Their conviction was the result partly
of a negligent defence arising out of over-confi-
donce in tho chances of acquittal. I well remem-
ber that the press and the public, after the
conviction, commented upon the horrible character
of the outrage and expressed a hope that the
seven men would expiate their crime on the
gallows. Much to the public discontent and
perhaps contrary to the advice of the presiding
judge, the death sentence was commuted, four
men being sentenced to 10 years’ penal servitude
and two floggirgs and 'the oilier three to live
years and one flogging. As I before stated, their
conviction wa3 the fruit of the over confidence of
their advocates, and it was partly due to the un-
compromising character of the judge’s charge to
the jury. That judge was his Honor Mr. Justice
Windeyer, who, in effect, bade the prisoners pre-
pare for death on the gallows, as it would bo folly
to expect a reprieve. Let us look at the subse-
quent history of this case. Not only did further
investigation show mitigating circumstances suffi-
cient to justify a reprieve, but also to warrant the
Executive in remitting the penalty of flogging.
As against the conclusion arrived at by Judge
Windeyer that the case was one for hanging, let
me quote the recorded opinions of .his Excellency
Lord Loftus, who caused the whole facts to be
thoroughly sifted :
“ ‘ I have carefully perused all these papers, and have
come to the conclusion as follows:
“ ‘ 1. That the prosecutrix is of immoral character, un-
chaste and unreliable.
“ ‘ 2. That her evidence, being contradictory, is unworthy
of belief.
“ ’ 3. That there is no other evidence but hers against
three of the prisoners, and quite insufficient evidence except
her own to prove a rape.
“ 1 4. That the whole affair bears the character of a drunken
brawl, in which the prosecutrix played the most disreputable
part.— Auoustus Loftus.’
“ That was his Excellency’s opinion in the case
against the seven men who (Judge Windeyer
thinks) ought to have been hanged. And now let
me ask you and the public to note this further
development. Seven months afterwards a mass
of evidence was forthcoming which showed that
three of the convicted men were not even present
when the supposed rape was committed. They
were released with the concurrence of Judge
Windeyer, who, if he did not think the additional
testimony exonerated them, at all events thought
it raised such grave doubts of their guilt as to war-
rant their immediate release. And yet his Honor
now, from the bench, laments that the seven men
were not hanged, although he knows that three
have been released! Had the Executive acted as
his Honor says they should have done, three inno-
cent men (absent from the scene of the alleged
rape) would have been judicially murdered. Ought
not his Honor to thank God every night of his life
that these men (to whom his summing up to the
jury was adverse) were spared long enough to
save him from the remorse of sentencing innocent
men to a dishonored and undeserved grave ? ”
NECESSITY THE MOTHER OF IN-
VENTION.
Picturesque appearance of Snooks, whose
clothes were stolen while he was bathing.
Manly Beach 'is more aristocratic than
Potts Point. It boasts a Cardinal’s palace and a
Privy Councillor’s chateau.
Miss Houston, who figured so conspicu-
ously in the N.Z. poisoning-case, has had numer-
ous offers of marriage since her release from
custody. One is from a parson and another from
a publican. If the contest lay between these two
last we would put our money on the parson ever *
timo to win at a canter.
Credat Judoeus is the most fitting epitaph
for the tomb of Mr. Frederick Berndt, who died
at Sydney Grand Hotel in consequence of eating
some bread doctored with rat poison. According
to the evidence, he was told that the poison was
there, but believirg apparently that the landlord
for some occult reason, had only pronounced it so
for a lark he proved his disbelief by suppin-
on the unattractive and fatal fare. s
Hie story of Kendall’s monument is a
peculiar one. Thirteen months ago the total funds
in hand amounted to about £lO, of which
Lawson had collected £22 and the Committee the
remainder, then Kemenyi came along and gave
a bencht concert which returned £lO5 to the fund
which amount the Maestro increased by a donn
lion of £25. Out of the whole sum subscribed'
tins foreigner contributed three-fourths— and bv
this he did not even get the benefit of an adver-
tisement, for the Kendall concert was the last ho
gave or intended to give-yet no mention was
made at the iccont ceremony of Remenvi’s
labours save by Dan. O'Connor, and no Sydney
newspaper contained even a mention of the vir
Imists name. Had it not been for Remenvi’s
generosity there had been no need of Mr. Dallev’s
oration, or Lord Carington’s presence at that
lonely grave.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal—" Queen Elizabeth "
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy " " p ’ 15
Academy of Music.—Dr. L T nn. ” "
School of Arts (Clarence Town) Lynch Familv Ret'
ringers cu ‘
The production of Louis XI. at Svdnev
Gaiety drew together an unwonted proportion It
shiny and irritating bald heads in that joyous
symposium. Young men, for some reason or
other were scarce, and the entire consignment
of male hair m the building, if collected and tic,
on to the end of a stick, would hardly have suffice,!
to swish a fly olf a whisky-bottle. ‘‘Louis Xi ”
appears somehow to exercise a fascination over
the superannuated pirates Of the community
though it would be hard to guess why. There k
nothing very attractive in a bird’s-eye view or n
shrivelled monstrosity, whose wicked old leas am
already in the grave, and who only keeps his dried-
up withered, monkeyish, gray head sticking out
of the hereditary mausoleum that he may ord»r
few more murders before he dies ; and this is n
true sketch of the last years of Louis o?V.'W
But at length the Destroying Angel conics XnV
and is surprised to see an object like a depraved
grizzly cricket-ball protruding from the tomb • he
stoops to gaze upon it, and then, finding it to be all
that remains of the King of France, he Smites it a
tiemendous bat with the chair-leg of fate and Mm
monarch doubles up with a vicious yelp claws
for a moment at the outer edge of the unspeakable
and the quite too too utter, and dies like a dog
after having lived for half a century like a hyena.
* * *
There is not much jtlot in “ Louis XI ”
At the opening of the drama we find a fat man
with a tallow-boiling aspect, and an outer coating
of scales, shaking his fist at tho King’s
and then with a stride of cow-like frenzy he
enters the gate declaring that he will make the
old ammai sit up. This individual is an ambassador
and a disguised duke. In the second act we see
the o,d animal in his stirred-up state; he evidently
doesnt like it, but he disguises his affection and
chuckles, and even when tho envoy hurls a dofi
“* X, 1 - 1" »• name o( CharlJ, ,he ]!old rf
Burgundy a prince whose postal address was
scattered all over Europe—ho only grins a weary
old grin and jabs the nobleman in the riba. The
latter relies all this time on his disguise, though
in Vverv^dm^ 80 stup . i( , lity ho might read detection
every dingy wrinkle on the smiling leatheiy
countenance of the King. The Dauphin is
shovehed into the piece about here; lie is not
much wanted, but he stands about mid makes
ove to Marie through’ tho rest of tho drama and
the pair are both involved in a not of villainy
w hich Louis weaves around the man who s irred
aT d t tl fr d party is caught
ac last, and the monarch sits on his throne
with ins head held up by his courtiers and
cackles forth a decrepit, croupy laugh as lie
orders somebody to take off the duke’s
head. He is so sure of his success that it is
qui.e h depressing surprise to him when he retires
S a find e fb P g - toilldUlgC A il station aJd pra e
f,°! nd the impnsoncd ambassador sticking his
head out from behind a curtain like a fovl
emerging from a dust-hole, and it is worse still
F rf n—z "1
nn,l dies in the "I
wanting to kill somebody to thf last. if sltis
factory to note however, that the duke escapes'
Ho has the closest imaginable shave and the
monarch dues to whoop for his blond w » ,
choking, and can do no morethan^-n't- 3
triumphant enemy. glaro at ilis
* *
w *
Mr. Sheridan as the King had almost -ill
the spree to himself and in one respect 1 „
excellent. His expression and make-up admir
abiy realised the idea of the mean, cruel grovell in*
monarch ; there was unspeakabte cunning in h!
long, heavy, weary, leaden eyes with their flabby
ids , theio were camel loads of villany in each of
the thousand creaeci on that yellow leatlunv
cmintmnance, and when the duke poked him up a
moment 8 over T l £ d,ctl ' r °. passio » gleamed for a
moment ovei his ooimtenanco and then was
buried fathoms deep i„ dissimulation But hd
the a effe“ on °lVHss Dav° ? P ° iled a good (lcal ot
ne enect. Miss Davenport looked very preltv as
he Dauphin, but the part was a poor one Ld
she did not seem to improve it; while Mr Tavlor
as Nemours was a second rate duke, a third rate
ambassador, and a fourth-rate lover. Ho Tm
proved a little when ho was dragging the King
over tho furniture, hut after thft ho collapsed
once more. Tho rest £ coiiapseu
no thiiio- wnriu i -° St 10 characters had
not lung woith sptakmg of to do, and they did it.
** * #
” f Music ™ ■«>">
eloouonri' nn.i , ■ -i c . ing ’ It had aristocratic
wS nS4"'‘ 'S "ingle l
sion it wn ° \ and v, ce-regal condcscen-
size and fm> S w . a . uch ™ only a nmn of middle
maUf tho - 01 ?? Scould ach >cvo. When a
to imitate this fm <:e £ ra Ph' poBt ” stamp essays
raS^'an! ,l iight - pp -of breaded •‘rmig^on
porienco anont * T
as an evening beverage. As we


doctor la of good proportions. It would take a
clever conjuror to vanish him. Ho is a “ sleight-
man ’ but b y no means sleight of figure,
(lhis ioke is entirely our own.) And he has that
happy, artless manner which usually accompanies
a tnree-meals a day appearance. Jokos of the old
red sandstone period, in which ho occasionally in-
dulges, are rejuvenated in their delivery, and tho
tender little “patter” with which the perform-
ance is cemented becomes imbued with a foreign
fragranco on his lips. Tho wholo show is per-
meated with tho exquisite politeness of the
doctors manner. Ever and anon as we gazod
upon him we thought what a lovely thing it would
be to have him in Thk Bullktin oflice to explain
to inquirers why it was that their social items had
not appeared.
* * *
The “ Vanishing Lady ” is the big butt-
end and climax of Dr. Lynn’s show. There is
positively no deception about this. Tho lady, who
carries a fair amount of avoirdupois, seats herself
in a guileless-looking high-backed chair which
stands upon a newspaper ; a thin black silk wrap
is thrown over her and tied at tho back of tho
chair; then a sjiectator pats her on the cheek to
show that sho is still there ; the doctor unties the
wrap, shows the chair emp'y and the vanished
one, marching in from the rear of the .stage, doe 3
a back-from-the-grave bow and smiles with that
intensity of expression ever present on the face of
a woman who knows a secret. The trick is simple
enough; of the 1000 or so present on Monday
everyone saw exactly what was done, but strangely
enough they explained it in 999 different ways.
>\ e know it, too, ami nothing but our reverence
for the Much Travelled One who runs the show
prevents our publicly giving it away.
#* * #
There is only one Dr. Lynn, and R. S.
Sms the is his profit. The fellow who assumed
the name soino three years ago and gave per-
formances in Xew .South Wales and Queensland,
was an imitator. Personation is tho sincerost
form of Mattery. When Dr. Lynn was in Amorica,
several conjurors personated him in the United
Kingdom. Such is fame. Hut no one has yet
attempted to personate It. S. Smytho. He can
only be admired—imitation would be an effort too
vast for ordinary humanity.
** * #
“ Elizabeth is still prospering at Sydney
Itoyal, but though wc admire the delineation of
the character every time, our respect for the good
Queen Boss is not increasing. She possessed groat
talents, and realising in early life that she might
make either a fire or a smudge with thorn she set
herself deliberately to make a smudge. Signora
Mnjoronl brings out her most prominent feature
to perfec*ion—sho could not tell the truth if sho
tried, and sho never did try. Sho was as unreli-
able as a bill at three months, and if she had any
good points worth speaking of sho hid them so
carefully that it wouhl have boon more profitable
to hunt for a half-pound of butt r in perdition
than to attempt looking them up. We forgot last
week, by-t ho-byo, to gi vo our blessing—a cheap,
ready-made articlo which i< kept always in stock
—to tho Marqids of Mendoza. That individual
does not seem to have been built by Providence
for an Ambassador. Ho is a small and cheeky
message hoy of undignified aspect., and all through
wo expected to seo him smack his leg and whistle
derisively at her majesty. When he docla'cs war
ho seems to be sliding do wn into his collar, and as
the quocn lowers above him in magnificeut wrath
ho looks like a mosquito shaking his fist at a
whale. This, no doubt, shows the p uck of iho
buzzing insect, hut it. is apt to rile tho whale.
Next Frioay Mr. Will.am II nob, a gentleman
who has boon rowing s uuo races i i Kng’nnd, will
visit this theatre, sitting most, probably in the
Viceregal hix.nnd Sign irn Major uni will present
him with isoirethlng in a m irnco i en-o ; and on
Saturday Signor M ijcronl will appear in his groat
character of "The Old Corporal.”
#* # *
“ Monto Christo ” is a decided improve-
ment on the pieces that have boon presented of
late at Sydney Royal Standard. It is dratnafised
a< w-ih iv r nild bo expected, and, as tho difilcul-
tin :: i vork inns' have boon vory great, Iho
shatiero I, mangled, bh»wn-up character of the
latter acts is oxcusnb’c. To put Dumas’ stupend-
ous story on tho stage In its entirety would have
born a task compare 1 to which tho work of fixing
up the It.blo into a fo tr act sensation becomes
co npnrntivcly emy, and the figure of the Count —
that mysterious, «| i i i-eut'ng, semi-omnipotent
deputy of Providence who pervades tho second
half of tho story—is no' an easy one to delineate.
Tho interest of tho play centres in tho gloomy
prison of tho Chateau D'lf, where Kd nond Dantes
—known as " No. 31”—drags through the long
yours of his early manhood, a gaunt, unkempt,
despairing spoctre, whose o ily amusement con-
sists in being occasional ; y inspected by a stony
official with a hide bound c insolence ami a red-
tape soul. It is impossible, of course, to show tho
subterranean puisago by which Dantes’ cell i 3
made to communicate with that of Faria, so tho
two prisoners burst through a hole in tho wall
whenever they wish to i njoy each other's society.
Dantes' career prac ioally ends whon ho ejocts
Faria’s corpso from the sack in which it is done
up, and sowing himself inside that receptacle in-
stead, with a brick to h >!d him down, is thrown
into the rolling so a. Tlr's job did not look a nico
one when Mr. D impicr undertook it, and when ho
weut whizzing through the air at an estimated
rate of a long distance iu a horribly short, time we
would rather ho had the cont ract in hand than we.
Hut ho got out and deg himself up from his
living tomb; ho UUI uotevsn look damped. Per-
haps he was greased all over and Hie w ater would
not stick to him.
• « *
After this Moute Cristo swells tip and. "h-
Boures tho Deg Star. Mr. Darapier fixed his hair
carefully and looked even bettor t.hivn when a
prisoner in tho Chateau li’lf. Ho scattered
wealth about at a rate that would swallow up tho
gross takings of all tho t lie, it res in Sydney for
150,000 years, and did a cal like crawl along the
path of vengeance. Hitt unluckily it was neces-
sary to crowd this vengeance into a very small
space, and it was sort of spoiled. Dumas brough
down a picturesque fate on the purse-proud mil-
lionaire Danglers, by delivering him into the
hands of a horde of brigands in Monte C ristos
pay, who made him pay his board at Iho rate o
about £2OO for a fresh egg. and £lO for the wear
and tear of tho egg cup. until ho was cleaned out,
and then kicked him into futurity, but in Mr.
Dumpier'* version of the story tho ftaianciei •
scruff oil by a bobby for a vulgar hospital embezzle-
ment. Fernand, according to the novo 18 • ia
overwhelmed with disgrace, and driven to Mticido
through tho efforts of his relentless enemy, wno
dostroys his military reputation by revealing how
ho sold his old master, All Tebelin, Pashaof
Janina. to the Seraskier Chourchid; but Mr.
Dampior had no time for such a slow P el ’ fo ” liar J® 0
as this, and after weeping a little ho 8 P) ko( *
nund in his degraded little t ummy and wiped him
out. The other evil genii of the play are blown
about by a perfect blizzard of policemen, and run
in and run out again, and are jumped over all
icinda of rough places, and shot at and stabbed
and kicked and sold up under bills of sale, and at
last Fate seizes them individually by the heels
and knocks their weary heads against the wall.
1 eace to their smashes. There is more elbow
room as they get cleared off, and we are glad, in
the interests of poetic vengeance, to see them go.
* * *
It follows, therefore, that Mr. Dampier, as
p ou nt de Monte Cristo, has to sacrifice a little
of his lofty dignity at the finish. Time is pressing
and he can’t wait to slowly pick the bones of his
enemies and gloat for months over them as they
sink down to a place where the heat makes the
mercury rise up and sit on top of the thermometer
and wipe its face with a red-hot pocket handker-
chief. Dumas’ hero started the assorted villains
gently on the road to destruction and rubbed the
downward path with a bacon rind to help them to
slide, but Mr. Dampier has to run behind and
kick them along in frantic haste, and at every
kick they jump at least 40 feet on the road to
perdition. But in spite of thi3 the piece is a
good one, and Monte Cristo is worthy of it. Miss
Lily Dampier’s Mercedes does not look much like
the fiery, passionate, Catalonian maiden who
makes so attractive a heroine of romance, and
Mr. Leston makes a much nearer approach to the
author's idea in depicting the dirty, ragged, mean-
spirited Caderousse. We will keep our benedic-
tion for the other characters in reserve.
Mr. Hollow.ty’s company at Sydney Opera
House have been closing the season by wading
steadily through their repertoire once more. “As
You Like It,” “ Ingomar,” “ Much Ado About
Nothing, Pygmalion and Galatea,” and other
favourites have reappeared in quick succession,
and have all been well received. After the de-
parture of Miss Jenyns and the company to which
she is attached, the Opera House will again be oc-
cupied by Messrs. St. Maur and Maltby with
Jim the Penman.”
## # #
The Hunt Club Picnic, the Sydney Alham-
bra’s present attraction, still continues to draw the
multitudes, and the applause bestowed on the
various performers is like unto the hum of a
blizzard tearing through pine scrub. Of the
feminine portion, Amy Rowe, Ida Francis, and
the sisters Pullen, get the most applause for their
efforts ; while the'sterner talent, represented by
such models of beauty as Matlock, Warner, Bar-
rington, and Ryan, rouse so much enthusiasm by
their b ill ad singing, &c., that the audience are
only appeased by double “ ankores.” A genuine
novelty has been introduced by the corner men,
namely, some new jokes, which are nightly worked
off to much advantage.
** # *
The audience at Sydney Exhibition
Promenade Concert on Saturday night last was
very numerous and appreciative. The show is
certainly a good one, but we might suggest im-
provements in the programme. Instead of the
rather unfamiliar and “ classic ” songs and
selections, we would advise that at least a
few popular ballads should bo introduced
again the band only performs three times in 10
ito ns. As the concert is supposed to bo a
promenade one, there should be much more band
and much les? solo-singing. As a nutter of fact
no female voice can be heard with satisfaction
under existing circumstances. But we mean to
enter our strongest protest agamst a piece of tom-
foolery called “A Toy Symphony,” where the
“whole strength of the show” play on little
wooden flutes, t in trumpets, whistles, small drums,
and police rattles. In the thing itself there is no
merit, and wo are surprised that an artist like
Kowalski can bo induced to “conduct” such a
motley band. 'I'Do audience, to their credit,
showed nothing but a sense of relief and their
backs when tDo thing was over. Signora
Lardelli sang very pleasingly “ Maid of the Mill ”
This lady is new to Sydney, and consequently the
audience gave her every encouragement. She
possesses a sweet voice aad face and will win her
way. Taken altogether the “ show” is a remark-
ably good one.
## # #
“ Bulletin Disciple ” writes a mournful
letter this week lamenting that while our notice
of Mr. Sho. id in’s “King Lear” last wook was
not entirely complimentaiy, wo still occasionally
praise the business “at that classic resort of the
gentle and diffident hoodlum—the Sydney
Alhambra.” B. D. apparently overlooks the fact
that every show must bo criticised according to
its pretensions. Mr. Sheridan announces a classic
performance of standard drama, and his show
is measure I according to its pretensions; it
would bo manifestly uni list to condemn the
Alhambra biz. because it is, as we readily admit,
inferior in tragic force to Mr. Sheridan’s play,
just as “King Lear” is deficient in humour of
that rollicking sort which delights Music-hall
audiences. To place all theatrical entertain-
ments in the same class would boa 3 unjust as to
condemn Pa3tor JoToris as a preacher because he
shows no proficiency as a song and dunce artist.
And now for a little anecdote. A few weeks ago,
three or four daily paper dramatic ciitics met in
a Sydney Theatre. “Fearful rot this show,’
languidly remarked one of them. “The worst
that ever opened in the metropolis,” added
another. “ Take ’em all iound the rfydney shows
for the last month have been the poorest lot I ever
saw” meditatively murmured the Hurd, as they
ebbed out to “ see a man.” Yet all the Sydney
dailies next day siting fulsome adulatory slush
over every actor and company in town, just as
they had been wont to do every day for months
before. Ananias in ancient times showed liis
best paces in land transactions, but it must be
distinctly remembered that dramatic criticism
was not a prominent institution of the Biblical
era.
#* # #
Messrs. Brough and Boucicaulfc have
lighted what somebody once called “the sacred
lamp of burlesque,” at Melbourne Opera House.
The lamp has been carefully trimmed, and is
tended by a watchful crowd of virgins. If it
doesn’t diffuse a particularly brilliant light, the
quality of the oil supplied must bo held account-
able. “Silver Guilt” is a patchy travesty of
“ Silver King.” An intimate acquaintance with
the drama enables one to got a feeble grip of the
burlesque, and faintly comprehend what it is all
about. Nevertheless, in its most lucid moments
“ Silver Guilt” seldom soars above the realms of
gloom. Mr. Robert Brough cleverly parodies
Titheradge’s Wilfrid Denver, and Mr. Boyce
awakens memories of Phil. Day. Their perform-
ances convey the idea that they would have been
much funnier if the author had permitted. Miss
Fanny Robtna is the company’s specially-imported
burlesque lady, and dances best of all. In a word,
Miss Robina possesses that divine something
called “ go.” Another nimble now arrival is Mr.
W. Warde, a weird, wiry wonder, who revolves
in the air like one possessed of seven devils. He
is credited with “inventing and arranging” the
dances in this burlesque, and accordingly takes
the cake. Iwo or three eccentric dances, and the
same number of jingling melodies, are the re-
deeming features of the show. There is a little
crowd of fair girl mashers, headed by Miss
Irevelyan, looking rather depressed in trousers
and a tall hat. And for all that they do, say, or
sing, these ladies might as well be under the cold
sod. We are forgetting to mention that “Silver
Guilt ” is “ localised ” by Mr. Geo. Lash Gordon
resident author for the company. Mr. Gordon
has not been out long enough to do any very
subtle localising, but considering that his lines are
not cast in pleasant places, he has evidently done
i best. A lot better than this burlesque is the
two-act comedy, “ Vice Versa,” which plays
merrily for the first hour or so. “ Vice Versa ”
13 a stage adaptation of Mr. Anstey’s novel, deal-
ing with the complications ensuing upon a swap-
ping of souls by a city merchant and his son. A
magical stone, it Is that enables them to exchange
inner consciousnesses. Papa Brough becomes,
pro tem., a bald-headed boy with a line taste in
toffee and alley taws, while son Boucicault, in
short jacket and Eton collar, returns to boarding-
school a rheumatical old man. Instead of kissing
the pedagogue’s pretty little daughter like he did
4 last half,” the doddering young dog only pats
her head and drivels fatherly maxims. When
there has been not too much trouble, but just
trouble enough, souls are re swopped and bliss
reigns around. The two principals score heavily
in this comedy, and the nimble Mr. Warde, afore-
mentioned, give such a life-like representation of
a sneaking worm of a school boy that we wanted
to pull his ear. As the pedagogue’s daughter,
Dulcie, Miss Boucicault is just the sweetest,
prettiest, maidenlie3t young fourteen-vear-old that
ever mashed an ardent scholar at prayer-time.
All male Melbourne—from the gallery boy of
tender years to the wrinkled paterfamilias in the
circle—worships this dainty presentment of fresh
childish innocence. Even the women can find no
flaw in her. Heaven bless Miss Nina B. for teach-
ing us that angels can still live, move, and have
their being up an this sin-stained earth. “Vice
Versa” is carryiug “ Silver Guilt” triumphantly
upon its shoulders, and business is good at the
Opera House.
Mr. D. Bensaude, the poor little battered
Jewish husband of Violet Cameron, is having a
rough time in the States. Violet started recently
to New York with that overfed bully Lord Lons-
dale in attendance to bash the draggle-tailed
Hebrew spouse if he chanced to turn up, and un-
luckily for himself he did turn up. • Thereupon
his loving wife and noble peer promptly swore an
affidavit about threatening language, and not
being able to And 1000 dollars bail Do Bensaude
was at latest languishing in a damp “spot that’s
always barred.”
## # #
Ellen Terry’s two children recently lost
their father, Mr. E. W. Godwin, the architect.
Thereby hangs a tale. As a blushing maiden of
16 summers Ellen was married by her family to
G. )<’. Watts, R. A. The marriage was unsuitable
for both parties. Even at that time—some two
and twenty years ago—Watts was a compara-
tively old man. He had a family, and the family
made things warm for young Mrs. Watts. She
retaliated, and civil war arose in the painter’s
household. Hubby attempted to assert his autho-
rity. On one occasion Ellen was expressly ordered
to take her place at the head of her liege lord’s
table, and play hostess to his friends. At the ap-
pointed hour she did take her place, attired after
the fashion of a Greek goddess. Watts, perceiv-
ing that his ycuog filly was not to be broken in,
allowed her £3OO a year to carry on somewhere
else, toddled back to his studio, and wiped the
name of Ellen from the tablet of his mind. Then
did the lady start housekeeping with her husband’s
talented friend, Godwin. They lived a retired
rural life at a pretty village called Harpenden,
and two children were born. Watts never wor-
ried himself. Ellen drew £75 per quarter and
revelled in the cares of maternity. There was
another row. Godwin left his Ellen, and she
erected a tombstone to his memory and told the
little ono3 that “papa had gone to Heaven.” Then
a mysterious announcement appeared in the Lon-
don papers that 44 a favourite actress would
shortly return to the stage.” The favourite
actress was Ellen Terry, and she returned under
Mrs. John Wood’s management. Later, when his
wife was 27, old Watts was induced to give her
her liberty. She married Charles Kelly, found
him “horribly jealous,” and heard of his death
with Christian resignation. But, touching Mr.
Godwin. Of late years he was famous as the
originator of the opem-air plays conducted by
giddy Lady Archibald Campbell. Perhaps, had
time permitted, the name of Godwin might have
been added to the long list of co-respondents—but
no matter. And, oddest thing of all, Godwin was
a designer of costumes for Irving's theatre, where
the estranged mother of his children would quietly
accept his hints about the hang of a classic robe.
Their old friendship was never renewed. The
children born of this union between these erratic
geniuses regarded—or did fora time regard—their
father as a dead ’un. Now that he is dead have
they buried him, we wonder, beneath the tomb-
stone Ellen Terry fixed up years ago ?
A£- dt dfi* «Af»
•'A" "/X s 'TV' "TV'
The latest about Genevieve Ward is that
she intends to retire from the stage in six months’
time. Allowing 10 years for farewell perform-
ances, Geneviove will reach a discreet age before
she makes her final bow.
A£- A -
TY "A* -ft*
A wicked, funny, dreadful little yarn is
told about a “Messiah” night at the London
Promenade Concerts. The “soiled doves,” whose
fascinating presence and thirsty patronage is es-
sential to the success of these concerts, caught on
to one of the most beautiful choruses. Half-a-
dozen daughters of Eve leant against a refresh-
ment bar, chirping—“ All we like sheep have
gone astra-a-a-ay.”
AL* AA. A£- Af-
■Tv* W *7v* TV*
Miss Minnie Palmer’s show continues to
boom along at Melbourne Bijou. Last week the
management advertised for bald-headed gentle-
men to walk round town with their hats in their
hands, and M. P. M. S. painted upon their glisten-
ing pates. Waggish management 1 Excellent de-
vice ! Would that our flowing locks would
crumble away from our burning brain-pan, and
leavo us eligible for this job ! On Saturday, De-
cember 4th, Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Mus. make their deep countermove at the Royal.
“ Human Nature ” has done its little six weeks
with honour and profit, and on Saturday Miss
Carrie Swain opens in “ Carrie the Tomboy.” It
is rumoured that Miss Palmer nightly prays for
the success of her fair rival from Amurrika.
Humph 1 The Federals finished at St: George’s
Hall last week, and the Raynors took a rousing
ben. and fond farewell of the Victorian capital.
Yes, and the new Alexandra is being kept warm
with temperance drama (ministers specially in-
vited—a hearty welcome to all) until the Italian
Opera Company makes sweet music. “ Mikado ”
will set the ball rolling at the “Triumvirate’s”
gorgeous new Princess’s, and the dress-circle
dudes will be able to stroll on to a front balcony,
stick a cigar between their teeth, and baro their
shirt-fronts to the moon. Altogether there is
much excitement in Melbourne and its numerous
suburbs.
#* # #
The comic opera “Populaire” is to be
performed at Government House, Sydney, in about
a month. Five different geniuses—Messrs. Moser,
Maclean, Myers, Holdsworth, and Hutchinson—
contribute to the opera, so that it should be a
phenomenon Fryer’s Circus Menagerie Com-
pany have once more returned to Australia with
large reinforcements. They open at Freemantle
(W. A.) on the 2nd inst., and work on via Perth
aud S.A. towns, opening at Adelaide on Boxing
£ The opening of the new Opera House in
Wellington, the capital city of N.Z„ by Messrs.
M Mahon and Leitch, on November 17, was a
brilliant success. The audience numbered nearly
2000, including the Governor and suite. For
beauty of internal design and completeness of
detail, the new theatre has no equal in the
Southern Hemisphere. The city of mighty winds
and iubilant earthquakes has for once given a lead
to other Australasian cities. The “Silver King”
was the initial performance, and an elegant
oration by Mr Leitch before the curtain rose in-
troduced the theatre to its patrons pleasantly.
A Draconian Sentence.
Tub Bulletin maintains that the sentence of
fourteen years’ penal servitude and two floggings
passed upon Sweetman, the Sydney cabman, is so
ludicrously severe as to be utterly subversive
of the interests of justice. The Bulletin
further holds the opinion that Judge Windeyer’s
comments on the case as reported in the Daily
papers, and his statement of the reasons for im-
posing so extreme a penalty, sufficiently prove
that however conscientious His Honor may bo,
he labors under mental defects which render it
inexpedient that he should any longer be allowed
to sit on a criminal bench of justice. It is
especially repulsive to any human being to
contemplate the infliction of the punishment
of the lash on a long-sentenced man; the
framer of the code under which a fourteen
years’ prisoner may be sent to the triangles,
could, we hold, logically advance no suffi-
cient reason against sentencing men already
condemned to death to be tortured before execu-
tion. A long sentence inflicted upon a man who
has passed middle-age amounts to a living death.
Sweetman is set down in the records as 10 years
old ; as, according to the judge, he is a weak
man, bir present term of imprisonment com-
pletely swallows up his actuarial expectancy of
life. Having, therefore, practically put him out
of the world for ever, why should society torture
him ? Is not the essence of the modern dogger’s
creed: “Flog him and let him goi” Secondly,
the only evidence against Sweetman was that of
■the prosecutrix, whose main contention seem 3
quite incredible ; she states that the prisoner,
having enticed her into his cab—if “ enticed ” into
the cab she must be taken to have, at least in the
first instance, gone willingly—drove her away
against her wish to a lonely spot, whereas the fact
remains that the road traversed by the prisoner’s
vehicle runs through a thickly-populated locality,
and that, had the girl chosen to scream, almost at
any time during her journey she could at once
have attracted a crowd, and had the vehicle
stopped. The prosecutrix says prisoner attempted
an assault, but we have only her own word for it
and as she is a girl who, by her own admission
in the box, was not previously of absolutely un-
sullied virtue, what she swears must, in
any ease, be accepted with caution, and
must in no case be regarded as sufficient
warrant for imprisoning a man for four-
teen years, to say nothing of flaying
him alive. Again, so far from prisoner having, as
insinuated by the judge, been in league with the
Mount Rennie convicts, the balance of what little
evidence there is on that point tends alto-
gether in a contrary direction. Finally, there is
nothing in the evidence as reported to warrant
the conclusion that the story of this cabman, how-
ever immoral he may be, is not substantially true;
there is in fact nothing to show that his crime was
not one which, when committed in secret, is alto-
gether ouuide the purview of the legal code.
The Bulletin points out these things inasmuch
as Sweetman was at his trial devoid of legal as-
sistance, and because, in the present excited state
of public feeling there is much danger of venge-
ance taking the place of justice.
Chivalry and Law.
In Now South Wales, when a prisoner on trOTTor
his life is moneyless, the Crown fees counsel for
him to the extent of five guineas, but as it is not
etiquette for a barrister to claim the fee under the
circumstances, the solid fact remains that a pauper
prisoner arraigned on a oapital charge in the
“ Mother Colony of the Australias” is—unless he
be a blackfellow— absolutely dependent upon the
charity of the members of the liar. Some few
people may be aware that in the Mount Rennie
cases just past, counsel was assigned to certain
prisoners, but it is not generally known that
several of the barristers who undertook the de-
fence worked from Monday morning until Satur-
day night without fee orre ward save the conscious-
ness of having done their best for the accused men.
It is an honour to belong to a profession whose
junior members are capable of such self-sacrifice ;
but why, we ask, should not the leading barrister
(who, according to tho tradition of his profession,
is not supposed to take foes) follow the noble ex-
ample set him by his brother the surgeon ? When
a pauper prisoner is tried for his life in New
South Wales his case is put into the hands of tho
youngest—and inferentially the least capable, be-
cause least experienced—of tho counsel at the bar;
but when at tho hospital a capital operation is to
be performed upon a patient who is not possessed of
a solitary copper, the knife is wielded, not by suck-
ing surgeons but by practitioners knownjto fame,
whoso time, if given to the public at their own
homes, is worth at the rate of thousands a year.
It is a miserable spectacle to see a bad or injudi-
cious defence made for a prisoner, bo he guilty or
innocent, on trial for his life ; and The Bulletin,
when it perceives that the fat well-fee’d counsel
of the senior bar calmly shake their money-bags
and go on with civil work, leaving beardless
youths to try their ’prentice-hands on the cases of
men for whom the hand of the hangman is outj
stretched —when The Bulletin sees these things
it thinks of the honorary hospital-doctor and says
that all the chivalry has fled from law.


Pepper And Salt
I Summer lias come. The season of Sun-
burn and Typhoid is upon us, and metropolitan
milk once more assumes an aggressive attitude.
Again dees the scientific analyst peer into its
pallid depths, and see the insidious fever-germ
disport itself with its brother the fluke and the
hideous embryo cancer. Relays of intelligent and
zealous constables are told off to keep an eye on
kine of a doubtful character, and the energetic
health-officer pursues the milk-cart with the per-
sistence of a sleuth-hound. Still it comes at
early morn, this hypocritical beverage, fresh and
frothing from the suburban dairy, where the
mysterious milkman, abreast of the latest know-
ledge, with weird art turns the produce of an
aged and stricken cow to fill the requirements of
a hundred families, and look as good as genuine.
The suburban dairy, with its air of gloom, silent
and unkempt—what common mortal ever entered
in, and returned to divulge its secrets, and dispel
the superstition which enshrouds it ? Who lias
fathomed the resources of that lonely sexagenarian
cow, with one horn grown into its eye, and its
tail lopped off —that lank and leprous cow,
which moons about all times, wan and weary,
giving the business a tinge of truth and reason,
and living on old clothes, mutton bones, and
scraps of discarded leathern trunks? Echo was
not back with an answ T er up to the time of going
to press. By patient investigation the enterprising
dairyman has discovered that the common snail
will give to hand-made milk the froth and bead
of Nature’s best brands, and the imprudent house-
father is often-times startled and grieved to find
the gasteropod floating placidly upon the bosom
of his matutinal Mocha. It consoles him not to
know that the newest entomological research
teaches that a properly-nurtured slug contains
more blood and bone-making material to the
square inch than prime beef and porter. We
imbibe no milk. Small-pox, doctors, and other
trials and troubles may despair of sneaking into
the bosom of [our happy family through the
medium of fresh milk, and we stand to-day at a
green old age, a living guarantee of the compara-
tive reliability and salubrity of kerosene as a
steady drink.
* * *
Her Eoyal Highness, Princess Beatrice,
has given birth to a son. Her Royal Highness
and the little Royal Highness are believed to be
doing well.
We are informed that a company is about
to be formed in Queensland with the object of
buying up the bodies of defunct Justices of the
Peace in order to distil rum out of them. It is
calculated that the average J.P. should yield from
Bto 10 gallons to the hundredweight. Up North
the yield will probably be more. The Queensland
magistrate will now he able to rejoice over the
reflection that his life has not been lived all in vain
and die in the consciousness that he has left his
family something in the way of property, if it be
only his corpse. This company will largely in-
crease his market value. As he had very little, if
any, before, it will not be difficult to do this.
* * *
“ A perusal of counsel’s briefs shows that
Lady Colin Campbell (the Queen’s daughter’s
sister-in-law) is charged with having misconducted
herself with the Duke of Marlborough. Her
ladyship is also charged with having breached the
proprieties with Captain Shaw, and Colonel
Butler in her own house, and with Dr. Bird, the
family physician, in London and other places.”—
(Evenin’ Ndoze telegram.)
* [The writer appears to he ignorant of the fact
that the “ captin’ ” interested in this suit is Cap-
tain Shaw, of the London Fire Brigade. The
Fairy Queen in “lolanthe” describes him as a
“ type of true love kept un-der.” Perhaps he has
gone out of type since the song was written.
—Ed. B. |
* * *
London Figaro has published a portrait
and a biography of the stupendous Goe, who will
«oon arrive to whoop up the priestly bullock-team
in Melbourne. Bishop Goe, according to
Figaro’s ari ist, is a stolid-looking person, whose
hair seems to have been seized in satisfaction of a
mortgage. He has no moustache, but wears a
door-mat round the rim of his face. From his
biography we learn that he objects to “ the East-
ward Position,” from which we presume that the
western side of his face is the most expressive-
looking, and he likes to keep it turned to the con-
gregation. He is also a moderate Evangelical,
though he has shown a tendency at times to High
Churchism, and he “is opposed to the prosecution
ROUGH ON RATS.
“I say, old man, take my tip and don’t eat no sandwiches made in this house, I
have just heard of a man eating one and it didn't agree with him. What will poison a
man is safe to poison a rat, you understand.”
of clergymen who think differently from him.”
Thus, in point of indefiniteness his position is thus
much the same as that of an inebriated teetotaller,
whose uncle cats opium, and whose great-grand-
father got into prison for dog stealing,
* * *
The Bishop of Exeter has done at least
one thing that is worthy of a decent and honest
Bishop: he has declared that the polygamous
heathen who desires to be admitted to the Chris-
tian Church should not be required to reduce his
harem to one wife before baptism. It is to be
feared, how'ever, that this theory will seriously
demoralise the missionary business. Hitherto the
hoary African reprobate, the oily, greasy, and
much-married Polynesian, and the ancient scalp-
hunting Indian with seven mothers-in-law, have
joined the Church and found salvation in order
that they might sack all their feminine belongings
except the youngest and prettiest. The savage
prefers to get rid of the wife of his youth who has
ground his corn for 40 years, until she grew old,
and wrinkled' and withered, and so when the
wandering gospeliser explains the position he gets
saved right off and lands the aged woman outside
the seraglio in two kicks. Naturally, the fossilised
wives who are thus treated don’t get saved to any
serious extent; in fact, they generally curse the
gospeliser and all his tribe, and die drunk through
their husband’s sudden sanctification. It is a pity
a few more bishops have not looked up this point;
there isn’t any dividend in it, but it deserves at-
tention, and if the converted savage is required in
future to support all his wives instead of turning
out the old and ugly ones to starve in the name of
the Lord, there will be a better show, both for his
soul and the bishop’s, in the great hereafter.
* * *
Speaking of Dr. Pearson’s translation,
“At'as” in the World says: “That Bishop
Moorhouse’s patronage is well bestowed no one
can for an instant doubt; but one cannot but call
to mind the saying of a wise man, that the most
effective aid to the Colonial Church would be the
graves of a few of its bishops in their dioceses.”
Excellent ! This is a matter that must be at-
tended to —
Very old theatre-goers who lament the loss
of the real pantomime, when graceful gestures
spoke as eloquently as learned tongues, should
have witnessed a’ recent sensational performance
at St. Leonards, Geelong. It appears that a lad
named Hood was riding a horse when his brother,
who is deaf and dumb, conceived a brilliant idea
of fixing up a little pantomime for ihe benefit of
those around. Arming himself with a fistful of
nettles he kissed his hand to the audience, danced
gaily up to the family steed, and cunningly in-
serted the stingers under the charger’s tail. This
appeared to be such a side-splitting piece of plea-
santry that Master Hood had to hold his stomach
and bend down to smother his laughter, and whilst
he was in this position the horse thought he’d help
the fun along by a little pantomime of his own.
Drawing his right foot up to a level with his right
side, therefore, he looked round with an artful
smile at the first performer, and then suddenly
shooting back his uplifted leg he took Master
Hood a kick under the eaves of his pants that
lifted him as high as the price of house-rent. See-
ing this, the other Master Hood came down from
his frisky steed, and placing his thumb to his nose
began to windmill his fingers at his brother, and
caper round the yard like a drunken harlequin —
such being his playful way of expressing the de-
light he felt at his brother's catastrophe. Not a
single word had been spoken, and yet everyone
knew exactly what the performers meant; the
gestures of the horse-being particularly marked
and w r ell rendered. When the first performer
found his feet again, and had picked the mud out
of his nose, and caught sight of his brother’s glee-
ful antics, he suddenly thought of a first-class
tableau which would bring the entertainment to a
fitting close. Accordingly, he rushed into the
house, got a loaded gun, and filled his brother up
with the contents so effectually that his capers
came to a rather abrupt ending. Then the police
arrived, the usual stage rally ensued, and the per-
formance was over. Theatrical managers should
stick a pin in this item with a view to their
Christmas entertainments.
* *
A new light is beginning 'to be thrown on
the “outrages” perpetrated by the blacks in the
Kimberley district. Water is scarce in that desert
of dust and rock where the sky is like heated brass
atove, and the diggers who were inarching in pur-
suit of the great alluvial lie ahead were camped
round every water-hole. The result was that
when the savage came down to imbibe at some
lonely ditch with a dead wallaby floating on the
top, he found his enemy in possession of the whole
stock of mud and effluvia, and straightway he
commenced to sow some wild oats and reap them
with a boomerang. A few diggers were killed
but for eveiy one of them a dozen of the weary’
thirsty, “ lords of the soil” were generally wiped
out, and their remains -were entombed inside the
unlicensed dog of the west, who carries their hones
in his gizzard and howls the accompanying
epitaph. This sort of thing is especially hard on
the youthful blackfellow. He can’t pray at his
father's tomb, for the tomb has the mange and is
galloping round on four legs ; he can’t plant white
flowers over the grave, for flowers won’t grow on a
dog’s back, and anyhow he wouldn’t stand still
long enough to allow of the experiment; and if he
wants to pay reverence to the old man’s remains
his only chance is to chase the howling mausoleum
for perhaps 20 miles, and when he has captured
and killed it he can hang it up to dry, and then in
after years he may find a sad pleasure in pointing
out the remains of the dingo to his children, and
telling them that it is their grandfather. After
all, we think the white man has got all the best
of it in the Kimberley outrages, and if he wants
vengeance he had better go out and pot a prospec-
tor, and leave the blackfellow alone.
*• * *
In a struggle between a Maori and a
Hebrew bailiff it is always best to back the copper-
coloured savage, for he generally comes out on
top. The other day one of the sons of Shimei
went forth to seize a native’s horse, and the
aboriginal seeing him approach got into the saddle
and prepaied for a race. Before he could start,
however, Moses was hanging on to the bridle
with the energy of Abbott’s four hundred and
ninth alleged cousin holding on to a N.B.W.
Civil Service billet; an old woman was also hang-
ing on to Moses in the effort to drag him away,
and a dozen natives were whooping around and
cheering on the combatants. But the grabbing
Jebusite held his own against all odds for fully
five minutes, and then the hoary female took a
mean advantage of him. She produced a kni.'e
and deliberately severed his brace 3, then with a
jerk she hoisted up his feet, leaving him hanging
by his hands only, and clutching the lower ends
of his pants the old lady started to run. The gar-
ment naturally followed. Then ensued a yell from
the crowd ; the native female cackled venomously
and headed in a north-eastern direction still haul-
at the pants ; there was an agonised “ s’help me ”
from the man of Hebrew extraction, a wild,
windmill-like whirl of Jewish legs in the chilly
atmosphere, and the bailiff let go the horse that
he might chase the essential garment which was
so suddenly becoming scarce. He was in time to
save it, but meanwhile the Maori and the horse
made a straight streak of dust into the dim
remote.
* * *
The Ballarat barmaids are making a most
uncalled-for clatter about Albert W. Sergison.
Bertie “ did” the Golden Ci]ty for a few weeks,
on the rich squatter “lay.” While the money
lasted the gay Lothario conducted himself like «.
man of spirit, and became really popular. With
a moderation which cannot be too highly com-
mended, Bertie only proposed to four barmaids,
two of whom blusjhingly consented to share his
whisky and soda fortunes, and became engaged.
That was the extent of Bertie’s crime. Before
he had time to accomplish even one marriage,
somebody ran him in for passing a valueless
cheque for a paltry “quid.” And those Ballarat
girls expect sympathy. Bah !
The New Zealand sea-serpent is still o
the full jump in the land of the Maori and w o ® l
and to those accustomed to the self-made usll L i
lian snake his habits are perplexing. He c 0 ,
menced his career by coming out of a creek a
chasing two small boys, and he then resemble
calf covered with hoop-iron, his latter end . f eff
adorned with a stiff and curly tail. A-
days l?.ter he hunted a native, and the bro
winded savage reported that he had been c , . r
by a horse with a man’s head. Then asc ‘
whose house was built under a cliff was as toms
one night to hear a terrific thud on his roof, " ,
suggested that a heavily loaded dromedary
jumped from the mountain peak above ngb
top of his happy home, while another c
showed that a whale was going at full gallop
the dromedary, and a sickening flop gave evi
that 10,000 bulldogs find an elephant brouge
the rear of the rushing scaly procession. " * t
spection of the landscape showed the sea ’? a
on the top of a neighbouring hill where be
up and obscured the Southern Cross :he th a
bricks at the settler and then cantered on leT<
N.N.E. direction, and finally took to the
and was seen no more. A night or two l ft eP(
got into a slaughter-house and ate several ■ ntg
and the latest discoveries in the way of too „pger*
show that he has now developed into a hug
The local geologist thinks that he is a mon
antediluvian type—one of a family wal
survives in subterranean seas —and that
ejected from Mount Tarawera during _ other
eruption, and the local policeman, on tn e &
hand, thinks he is a moderate sized lizar
over with whisky and lies.
MORE BLISS!
Another hungry mouth to feed,
Another hand to clutch the greed ;
One little god of clay the more,
For Tory toadies to adore ;
Clap your hands and jump for joy—
Beety’s got a baby boy !
Never shall the darling soil
Royai hands with honest toil;
Never shall that happy kid
Fairly earn an honest “ quid ; ”
Other hands will skill employ
In keeping Beety’s baby boy.
Plentiful as grains of sand
Are princelets in that happy land
Where the starving cry for bread,
Getting but a stone instead ;
Troubles such as those annoy
Beety and her baby boy.
Outcasts (whom the Lord forgive !)
Die that better folks may live ;
Weary women work and weep
While princes guzzle, gorge, and sleep ;
That fact won’t the peace destroy
Of Beety and her baby boy.
Blessed thing is noble birth !
Nobler far than simple worth.
Tennyson has changed, you know,
Since he said it wasn’t so—
His feeble pen he may employ
To butter Beety’s baby boy.
Mothers, with your babes at breast,
Read, mark, inwardly digest;
Teach those babes, when older grown,
That this babe’s better than your own—
That millions to this life are born
For tens to hold in royal scorn ;
Ay, teach your pets to “ know their place,”
And lisp “Your Highness,” or “Your Grace;”
Let them pray, poor little dears,
That we may have Colonial Peers.
Meanwhile the tidings sweet enjoy,
That Beety’s got a baby boy.
A WOOLLOOMOOLOO LARRIKIN WRITES BROTHER
WILLIAM ON THE TOPIC OF THE DAY
“ Bill, old pippin, ain’t it splendid,
Isn’t this a bit o’ fun 1
One ’ot case ain’t ’ardly ended
When a fresh ’un is begun.
Charley Dilkc, with them exposures,
Kept us goin’ for a time—
But, William dear, these noo ‘ disclosures ’
Looks like being really prime.
“ Such high toners, too, as these is—
Swell connekshuns of the Queen
Guess the royal lady sneezes
When she hears what larks there’s been.
When / heerd of this yum-yummin’
I exclaims— 1 God bless Argyle ! ’
Ain’t the Campbells now a cornin’—
Cornin’ to the front in style ?
“ Doctor in it— s’elp me never !
That’s a rather rummy go ;
Them coves mostly is so clever
No one bowls ’em hout, yer know.
Bill, when I get spliced to Mary
No old man won’t sound her ’art;
Being what the wurldcalls wary,
A doctorews will be my dart.
“ Marlbrer, too—that boy’s a terror,
Co-respondin’ all his life ;
Time he come to see the eiror
Of his ways— an’ where’s his wife ?
Number 2 she is, the first ’un
Chucked ’im up, and so she ought;
Judge pronounced the case the worst ’un
Ever tried in kany court.
“ There’s a captin’ and a kernel,*
Just the toffs you reads about —
Gay and frisky London iernel,
Milingtary men, no doubt;
Them’s old England’s brave defenders
As seldom goes abroad to roam,
But toasts their toes upon the fenders
Of gentlemen wTiat’s ‘ not at ’ome.’
“ William, we’re in luck with scandles,
Life’s worth livin’ nowadays,
All the folks that’s born with ’andles
To their names ’as spicy ways ;
They makes sport for you and me, Bill,
I luv ’em much, an’ no mistake—
Books and herls, and such like peepil,
As ‘ soihul hevils’ takes the caxe.”
WANTED-DEAD BISHOPS.
Our bishops are birds of passage
Who never for long remain—
They bring us the Master’s message,
Then fly away “ home ” again ;
Oh, we notice, with secret sorrow,
That the bishop who’s here to-day
Is most certainly gone to-morrow —
Right tiddleiumtitay.
For as soon as an English billet
Is offered (with larger screw)
They’re off like a shot to fill it,
And bid us a fond adieu ;
They leave us their heart 3 best wishes,
Most beautiful things they say,
As they go for the loaves and fishes —
Right tiddleiumtitay.
This state of affairs is awful;
The Colonial Church can’t thrive ;
It ought to be made unlawful
For the b’s to go back alive ;
’Tis their bodies are badly wanted,
But they carry them safe away—
All our bishops at home are “ planted ’
Right tiddleiumtitay.
Though the notion a trifle odd is
(A necessity we deplore)
We must write home, at once, for bodies
Of bishops who’ve “ gone before
Then, possessed of such saintly treasure,
Our Church will rejoice away —
Oh ! we’ll bury the lot with pleasure,
Right tiddleiumtitay.
SUCH IS LIFE.
Master Bertie cut a dash,
Cut a dash at Ballarat;
Barmaids fair he used to mash,
Used to mash but what of that?
Any cove who spends his coin
Must a barmaid's heart purloin.
Master Bert to four proposed,
ODly in the usual way ;
Two of ’em were well-dispo3ed,
Other two returned a “ nay.”
But whether it was “ no ” or “yes ”
What’s a couple, more or less ?
In our verdant giddy days,
Giddy days of long ago,
We ourselves, had winning ways,
Very winning ways, ycu know.
’l'wixt the puffs at our cigar,
We have wooed across the bar.
Full of little tender tricks,
Little tender tricks, were we.
Oftentimes we married six.
Six, and never less than three.
When the funds were running down,
We skedaddled from the town.
Master Bertie was no worse,
Was no worse than other chaps.
When he’d money in his purse
Smiling Hebes set their caps,
Touching finis to the tale,
Bobby took him off to gaol.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The population of N.S. W. is one million,
whereof 2f,000 are civil servants.
In N.S.W. in 1876 the average area of
freehold estates was 315 acres. Last year it had
risen to 881 acres.
Since the passing of the Chinese Restric-
tion Act of 1882, the number of these aliens in the
States has been decreasing at the rate of 11,000 a
year.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph says “ Sir
Henry Parkes is still a strong leader.” This is
a doubtful compliment. We once heard it paid to a
skunk.
Education cost 14s. 3d. per head of popu-
lation in N.S.W. during last year. Yet several
Justices of the Peace still spell “signed” without
a “ g ” or an “e.”
The amount of State aid to the various
religious denominations of N.S.W. in 1885 was
£11,229. Of this total £6,010 was paid to the
Anglican clergy, and £3,000 to Roman Catholics.
‘ ‘ The squatters are the backbone of Aus-
tralia,” says a writer in the Melbourne Argus. If
this be true, Australia must (metaphorically
speaking) be suffering from curvature of the spine.
Can it be true, as alleged, that since the
change in the style of tickets used on the Sydney
tram lines the Department has had returned to it
nearly a million tickets which were never issued
by it ?
Mr. John Bergan, who runs a woollen mill
in Freetrade N.S.W., states that not one similar
factory in the colony is making 1 per cent, on the
capital invested and that some of them are work-
ing at a loss.
O’Donovan Rossa has, it is cabled, “ been
deposed by the American dynamiters owing to his
recent inactivity.” The cablegram doesn’t say
what O’Donovan has been deposed from, but we
presume it was a rum-cask.
The eagle eye of the Monaro Mercury
perceives in the offer of the N.S.W. Chief-Justice-
ship to Mr. Salomons, Q. C., a desire on the part of
the Premier to set up a Hebrew for the purpose of
keeping the balance between orange and green.
Mr. Abigail’s constituents tried to draw
him the other day on the subject of Protection,
but Parkes’ fugle man only sat on a rail and
smiled, and it was worth going ten miles in a
wheelbarrow drawn by a cow and a dog to see
that smile.
Mr. Dibbs thinks the N.S.W. newspapers
* ‘do not as a rule give an honest interpretation of
the proceedings of Parliament.” If a man were
particularly bilious he might be inclined to ask—
“ Who could give an honest interpretation of a
drunken swindle 2 ”
In N.S.W. there are 563 freehold estates
each over 10,000 acres in extent, and containing
altogether 21,013,160 acres. Land monopoly is
making immense progress within the colony.
These huge estates are together equal to 58 per
cent of the total freeholds.
Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield has combined jour-
nalism with politics, having assumed the editor-
ship of the Lithgow Mercury. Among other
light reading the first issue under the new
management contains a five-column report of a
speech by the Irrepressible one. That is sufficient
to make any paper hum.
The Down and Gumtree Jernil publishes
a recipe for taking the mildew out of canvas. If
it could only invent some way of removing the
mildew that seems to have settled on the Opposi-
tion stump-campaigner’s canvass every Free-trader
in the land would take a copy of the Jernil and
possibly one or two might actually find time to
read it.
The good cause must be making some
headway in England. We find the Referee say-
ing : —“ A portion at least of the natural incre-
ment of the soil of every country should go into
the coffers of the State for the benefit of the na-
tion at large.” Little straws of comfort like this
show in what direction the wind of popular opinion
is blowing.
The Queen, finding it impossible to run
the United Kingdom solely on the advice of Mr.
Dailey, has been compelled to make Sir George
Bowen a P.C. It is thought that with one Right
Honorable at Manly and another at Hong Kong
the peace and security of the Empire is assured.
Mr. Dailey will shortly proceed to England for the
purpose of being sworn in.
Vanity Fair regards Lord Churchill’s
Dartford speech as “alarming because he dis-
tinctly intimates that the Government mean to
rely for their existence on a renewal of that pro-
cess of universal tinkering which belongs pro
perly to the Revolutionary Party alone.” Which
means that Lord Randolph has “ turned dog ” on
the Tories, and gone in for Home reforms.
The N.S.W. Ministry have decided to
“ Black Wednesday ” a very large number of
civil servants, but they are doing the work gradu-
ally. Last week several professional officers,
with salaries of from £350 to £5OO, received intima-
tion that their services were no longer required,
and that they could claim compensation for loss of
office at the rate of a month’s pay for every year
of service.
Vanity Fair calls Sir John Lubbock “ a
mischievous sentimentalist ” because he talks of
bringing in a Bill to provide for the closing of
shops at 8 p.m. “ This nonsense must be knocked
on the head,” yells the enraged journal, unaware
of the fact that the tyranny which enslaves the
labouring classes is on the verge of having its
head smashed into as many pieces as there are
drops in the Atlantic Ocean.
One Warton—whoever he may be—has
been fixed up with a square feed by the St
George’s Club—whatever it may be also. When
Warton couldn’t hold any more he arose and said
that “he went to Australia with the hope of
cementing the union between the mother country
and the colonies,” and the club rapped its thick
end on the table in applause at the meaningless
hiccup of another Imperial Federationist. Now-
who in thunder is this kindly patriftfMng Warton
man 2 John M‘lntyre is leaving for London to
float a big Victorian gold-mining company. This
is another way of cementing, and a better one
than crowding up an obscure Englishman with
victuals.
Mr. D. A. Ferguson, M.L.A., has heen
expelled from the Mum bit (N.S.W.) Farmers’
Union because, as it is alleged, his subscription
had fallen into arrears to the extent of Is. It is a
bad look-out for Mumbil when its capitalists
cannot subscribe eight drinks to square up an
account which a member of Parliament has
allowed to stand over. Or more likely they have
a sturdy irreverence and sceptical disbelief in
Ms.L.A.
The Armidale Chronicle thinks there
can hardly be anything more ridiculous than the
sight of a N.S.W. Cabinet Minister standing on an
inverted cask, haranguing five old women, one
boy, and the four-horse teamster who does all the
traffic for 50 miles round, and telling them that
“their important and rapidly increasing district
should have a railway, and if he has any voice in
the government of the country a railway they
shall have.”
The sale of Australian wines at the
Colonies Exhibition seems, from statements in re-
cent exchanges, to have been entirely controlled by
Messrs. Burgoyne and Co , who according to
Vanity Fair would only permit such brands' as
were on their list to be consumed. “ This,” says
the same authority, is not merely a grievance, it
is a monstrous scandal, and even if it stood alone
(which it does not), should be sufficient to prevent
THE MELBOURNE SHARE MARKET JUST NOW IS PARTICULARLY SICK.—SO ALSO
ARE THE BROKERS.
the South Kensington Gang, either collectively
or individually, from being allowed to have any-
thing whatever to do with the management of
any further Exhibition or Institute.
Even the soi-disant democratic Globe has
a part in the great unceasing Smith-grovel of
N.S.W. The other day Lord Carington, inspect-
ing the soon-to-be-abandoned Lachlan Water Re-
serve, suggested that it should be turned into a
public recreation ground, and the Globe straight-
way sat down on the damp grass to express its ad-
miration at the greatness and originality of an
idea that was first mooted long before Augustus
Loftus’ junior hen saw the light of day.
The appointment of Mr. W. H. Traill,
late of The Bulletin, as third Com-
missioner to enquire into the working of the N.S.W.
Lands Department proves that the Govern-
ment really want to pull matters a bit straight.
Mr. Traillbringslargeexperience to the work,leav-
ing had an intimateacquaintance of the working of
the Queensland Land Acts and offices. His book,
the “ Selector’s Guide,” written some years ago,
is still a standard in the Northern colony.
When the Russian man-of-war, Vesfcnik,
visited Wellington (N.Z.), a resident who. went on
hoard on business saw a number of plans and
photographs of Ihe defence-works and fortifica-
tions in one of the deck-houses. He also saw a
theodolite and photographic apparatus in the same
place. Evidently the Russians on their late cruise
i were bent cn taking advantage of their oppor-
tunities when they visited the colonies, for no
doubt what was done at Wellington was also done
in other places.
Mr. “Jack” Want, at Cootamundra,
(N.S.W.) on a member of the Parkes party in
Parliament :
“He was a. little gentleman called Hr. Wilkinson, He
was very harmless in his way, and it was difficult to say
whether he was a boy or a girl. If he lived in the doctor's
town he would (Laughter.)
And it might astonish them to know that the gentleman
who made this accusation against him to a great extent de-
pended for his living on the salary he gets as lecturer at the
University, where he gets J3OO a year and has oniy one
pupil. ’
“Nancy” Wilkinson will he the little doctor's
title in future.
The Deccan (India) Times states that a
man has recently been released at Hanamcondah
after lying in prison awaiting trial for 16 years.
There was nothing proved against him, hut he
had been run in on suspicion in 1870 and the
authorities quite forgot he was there. According
to this, the rulers of India seem to he gradually
working up to the Russian standard. The
Emperor Alexander I. once found an officer flirt-
ing with his particular girl and sent him up tor
three days as a hint to be more careful. But he
quite forgot about his prisoner at the end of the
time, and it was not till 50 years afterwards that
Gortschakoff, going through the gaol, accidentally
came across an old man of 76 who was chained up
in a cell and let him out.
Mr. T. H. Coghlan, the Government
Statistician of New South Wales, shows well in
his first flutter among the figures. The Statistical
Register for 1885 bears on many pages the marks
of his attention, and the Handbook by which it is
accompanied is certain to be a “ real blessing to
mothers,” and all other persons who have an
interest in the political future of Australia. Dis-
figured as it unfortunately is by several, if not
more, clerical and printer’s errors, it is neverthe-
less a credit to its editor and a justification of his
recent appointment.
“From all quai tors of the globe,” cried
Sir George Bowen, in a recent hair-raising speech
at Glasgow, “ ships will come crowded with
soldiers who will say the Empire shall not perish.”
Just so. And ships might come from all quarters
of the globe crowded with soldiers who would say
that beer would in future sell at a penny a quart.
“Saying” is about the cheapest thing w'e know,
but unless the “soldiers” did something more
than eat tinned food on the tented field and jaw
as they shoved down the stallod ox the Empire
might bust all the same.
A week or two back a Melbourne working-
man got into trouble for playfully “flicking” the
fiery steed of an officer —in uniform. A ittle
article on “Men in Buckram” appeared in these
columns, and is bearing fruit abundantly. The
Melbourne Herald has now arrived at the sensible
conclusion that “Australia is never likely to be-
come a military nation, and military swells arro-
gate to themselves a reflected glory to which they
have no right. There has heen of late too much
of this military mountebankism, and it is time it
was put an end to. Indeed, it is a question
whether, in a Democratic country like ours, some
of the gew-gaws, the lace, and the feathers, might
not with advantage be dropped.” Even the
autocratic Argus opened one of its bleary eyes
and took in the situation. Only the other day that
ardent supporter of everything that is and
oughtn’t to be, reminded its bemildewed readers
that America had no difficulty in raising armies
“ when it wanted them.” There is much agitation
in warlike circles. Warlike circles have de< ided
that “ the Service is going to the devil, sir.” In
that case, the Service will be returning, like the
prodigal, to the home of its father.
When Mr. Michael Burke lifts his hind
legs in the air and brings them down with a crash
on the keyboard of fame the consequences are
fiendish. He did this lately at Tamworth, and
the following quotation from his speech shows how
he did it :
“ Mr. Abbott has been professing to make the same amend-
ments as I was professing to do, and I supported the Ito\ em-
inent for these reesocs. I supported the next (roveinnient
for entirely different reasons, and I will support every Go-
vernment in power, because to see my country lifted
out of its present difficulties ? ”
There is as much difference in some people as any-
body. This remark is rather vague, but not so
vague as Mr. Burke, That gentlemen, it seems,
was professing to do something, and . Mr. Abbott
was professing to do the same, andneither of them
did it, hut Burke supported Abbott for that very
reason. He hacked the Government because they
thought as he did, and he backed the next Govern-
ment “ for very different reasons,” i.e., because
their views were contrary to his, and because they
deemed Mr. Burke an immortal ass. lie is alsogo-
ing to back every other Government that may
turn up, and he doesn’t care a tinsmith s execra-
tion what their views are. W e wonder if it really
is Mr. Burke’s intellect that is marked on the map
as the Great African Desert ;
The Victorian Opposition —headed by a
clique of ex-railway bunglers—is endeavouring to
hatch a scheme for playing gehenna with the only
remunerative branch of the Civil service. Mr.
Speight, the imported Chief Commissioner of
Railways, is required to have the assistance of tw o
minor commissioners. The aides originally ap-
pointed were solid men, who put in some work,
drew a quiet £ISW a year, and dida t stand in the
way of the chief s reforms. One of them is stil
pursuing his career of negative usefulness, but the
otner was recently removed to a higher sphere,
where there is no goods traffic, and passengers
make their journeys with wings, regardless of
class ’ distinctions. Upon the vacant Commis-
sionership is the glittering orb of the Opposition
greedily fixed. There is the opening wherein to
insert the wedge which shall oust the too-success-
ful Speight and bring back chaos. They have hit
upon Tarbrush Woods as a likely wedge. John
Woods, who bossed the railways in the good old
days of yore and introduced a bone-shaking brake
mongrel breed, ii t lie man of their choice. Got
him in the billet, and Mr. Speight will have tho
choice of three things—resignation, madness, or
death. In order to secure this glorious end, Mr.
Tommy Bent and his crowd will “job” till
further orders. They are prepared to let the
Government create another portfolio, and vote
themselves what they will provided the buzzing
\\ oods is allowed to blow upon the present system
of railway management. With Duncan Gillies at
the head of one party, and Bent managing the
other, no terms of truce are too iniquitous to bo
out of the question. They have both disclaimed
any knowledge of the meditated arrangement,
which is in itself a suspicious circumstance. The
railway-travelling public are prepared for the
worst.
The banquet given by Mayor Young, of
Sydney, to Sir It. Fowler, late Lord Mayor of Lon-
don, was not in every respect a suceess. The cups
and saucers were numerous, but there was a
weary and exhausted look about the victuals, or,
as the E. News put it, “ What was on the tables
consisted more of certain necessary appliances for
consuming food than of any particularly agreeablo
food to be consximed.” There was also a tendency to
erratic playing on tho part of the choir, or what-
ever it should be called, the man with the horse*
hair and the interior of tho cat executing wild
pranks which the man who blew into the bit of
gaspipe could not keep pace with. “ Sir Wobert”
tried to look interested, but he gazed on the first
'specimen of victuals on the end of his fork with a
thoughtful now-what-the-deuce-are you sort of
expression, that seemed to imply tho existence of
a coolness between him and his food. Sir Patrick,
that respectable Irishman aged 55,” as a Queqns-
land journal usually terms him, made a spcechj in
which ho complimented the guest on having ruled
“ the greatest city the world ever saw,” but as
man is said, to have been on the earth for 240,000
years the assertion was a rash one unless
the Premier has some private informa-
tion regarding tho past which nobody
else knows. He also grovelled a little about
“ the federation of an empire of some 300,000,000
souls,” just as if any white man would federate in
such an empire and let himself be ruled by a
majority consisting of more than 250,000,000
niggers and Chinamen. lie got mixed, too, a
little further on, and said the Anglo-Saxons were
“subduing the earth and making it the most
perfect the world has ever seen,” as if he had seen
a large assortment of earths and was in the habit
of going out and inspecting a few new ones before
breakfast. Sir Robert Fowler, in reply, said that
he liked the harbour, and wished he had seen Par-
liament in session, and Sir Patrick tottered and
shuddered at Ihe idea. Then Mr. Bradley said
that he thought the Ministry were “ fairly intelli-
gent” and advised people not to throw away dirty
water rashly, and the Premier rose to respond on
behalf of the unclean slops. Lastly, Mr. Barton
alluded to political "conviction,” and the only
mistake he omitted to make was that of alluding
to tickets of leave. Then there was more drinking
and the gorgeous assemblage burst up at 10.45 p.m.
BRIEF MENTION.
Tlie parsonification of dull journalism—
The Sydney daily press.
Whafc was the jawbone of the ass to the
Jawbone of the Ass embly ?
“ The architectural evolutions of a moon-
struck nightmare,” is what Alfred Bennett calls
the Sydney trams.
Princess Beatrice has given birth to a son.
The British taxpayer will be giving a berth to him
in about 20 years’ time.
“ Divine Providence still lives at Castle-
maine” says a correspondent in the War Cry.
Trust Providence for residing near a brewery !
The Sydney Evening News calls for the
flogging of the larrikins and other scum. We
never knew a paper to insult its subscribers in
this fashion before.
“The Andaman Islanders are the most
depraved and degraded class of’human beings,”
writes a returned globe-trotter. It is clear that
he never belonged to a Sydney Orange Lodge.
Bunny has reached Queensland at last,
and the great conundrum in that colony
is now “ What will it profit a man if he annex
the w hole Pacific and the rabbit has eaten him
out of liis own continent ? ”
The Mildmay mission has just spent £5OOO
on New Testaments for the conversion of the
Jews. We have no sympathy with these Mild-
may lunatics. If they convert the Jews what are
u r e to do for pawnbrokers and'Chief Justices ?
“ What is that ? Who shot up that
screerhir g scream ? ” asks the “ Sydney in Sorrow’ ’
conundrum man in the Globe. And then twenty
lines lower down he answers his own question by
explaining “ Well, it is a girl laughing.” This is
a libel on Australian wc mankind.
An indignant clergyman writes to tlm
London Times complaining that in a charade
which he recently witnessed “ a policeman came
in and arrested the deacon.” This was very
wrong. No policeman should w r aste his time ar-
resting deacons, while there are so many bishops
and parsons going around loose.
A skull and a rusty battered quart-pot
made up the recent find at Gympie (Q.) This pair
of curios, were lying together in a secluded hollow.
Apparently the skull had remained there drinking
until the legs got impatient and went od, and its
means of locomotion being thus cut off it had
perished miserably. The remains of a wink were
still visible about the bone of the left e} e, while
the right optic still gazed anxiously into the re-
cesses of the pot.
A Celestial named Tack Sue drowned him-
self in the Yarra, at Melbourne, last week. Very
little celestial sympathy was wasted on Tack Sue.
When his cold, limp, yellow carcase was fished
ashore, his old companions in crime and cabbage-
rearing fled to their huts, exclaiming, “damee
foolee.” No pig was roasted in Tack Sue’s
honour, no Chinese tears watered his grave. It
was remarked that very few of his ancient race
have selected death by drowning. A natural dis-
inclination to v ash themselves prompts Chinkip’g
pf suicidal tendencies to gq and be hanged,


The Mount Rennie Outrage.—The Law’s Recompense.
N.S.W : “ YOURS WAS THE CRIME : TO ME REMAINS ITS PUNISHMENT.”


SUPPLEMENT TO “THE BULLETIN,” SYDNEY, 4TH DECEMBEB, 1886.
7 _ . , ~ H
The subject of this biography gave no very eaVly promise of the
great career for which he was destined. On the contrary he evinced
an aversion fo* water in any form that, may be described as almost
precocious
Later on he developed a passion for aquatics
which seemed almost abnormal. His poetic
Mind transmogrified a bath-tub into a rowing-
oourse, an old shoe into a and his pet
kitten became a champion sculler.
His parents observed with dark forebodings
these early indications- of tbe natural bent of his
mind, and sought to turn his thoughts into other
channels They had designed him folr Parliament,
and knew too well that no one could reach tiieke
by water.
*/nn. ■ii'i"iinn\miii'/7 , /7/zr>rz*rz*PZ : ~ 'nigran*
ine boy grew, and secretly cherished his passion tor/
acquatics. One Sunday, when his parents were-"
asleep (in the neighbouring chapel), he took ’
barn door off the hinges, and launching it
upon an adjacent gooee-pond, heV
found himself afloat for the first
time. His delight is plainly,
visiblem the ex press loan
of his back,
~ r '
.He immediately began practising on the Parra-
matta River, and made such rapid progress that
i he soon passed everything on the course. (Oppo-
I sition groans, and a voice—“’Ow about. ’Anlan <”
S' About this time he con-
ceived the bold plan of build-
ing ft canvas dingy, ana used a spare
tftble -cloth or two in its construction Ft was «
reallv wonderful piece of boat building "hen >e ‘ ,
SU» th.ltl.oJ.oy w» only 6 years old com. M.oh.el
mas, and had never seen a canvas dingy
—not even a canvas-back duck.
/ His achievements on
the Parramatta naturally at-
tracted the attention of the
then champion Mr Haitian,
who came, saw, and challenged our hero.
The latter immediately went into, a severe course of
training, prescribing for himself a rigid diet ol only 33
links of savaloys per day
T?Wri’6
' H°l tl
G It really Vfas a wonderful dingy, only, as its builder had
■ not taken the precaution to make the canvas water-proot.ne
found that it was to some extent a failure, _ With that com-
prehensive grasp of ascertainable facte which distinguishes
*IJ really knowing cards, the subject of these memoirs siurt fctnnce_ that u
he was ever to beat Hanlan at all the thing couldn’t be done in that sort
©f a boat.
rr MY SCULLING DAYS ARE OAR. *
y Then it was that he re-
solved to earn money
enough te buy a real
boat. He accepted the 'App'ointineht of superintendent of
the Government ti'ind-niill, near Dapto, at a wretched
pittanoe of £:*000 a year, which was a plucky thing in a
youth cuninured to toil, and should be held up as an ex-
ample to every youthful colonist. f //a AR ')
% A-fter forty years of weary toil, during which he never
for an instant lost sight of his* cherished purpose, we at last
find him the owner of a proper boat, and fairly entered
upon his career. That, he admits, was the proudest mo v-
ment of his life. (Cheers, and-eries of " Set ’em uj> again ’’)
// How he beat Hanlan and the Toruki
wejl known, and then went to England in
search of, other worlds to conquer—and how
he }k now out of a job because there are no mure
Worlds .tq conquer has passed into history. He re-
turns to us full of years and cash, and we hope bq
wiH re-consider his expressed determination not to
re-enter public life.
(Loud and prolonged cheering.)
BEACH.—BIOGRAPHICALLY CONSIDERED.




ytuytuytuty
fjeiiP'lßfro
Resigning the Jawbone.
J. B. NEILD: “ HERE YOU ARE, JUDGE! YOU HAVE FAIRLY WON IT; I HAVE AT LAST MET A BETTER MAN!”
“Justice Windeyer’s charge to the Jury in the Mount Rennie case lasted for 10 hours.” —Daily Paper.


Society
takes the form of- abject worship of English
opinion. Without the hall-mark of London ap-
proval no Australian literary labour, however
meritorious, receives the slightest attention. A
few lines of Gordon, quoted by an English novelist,
first revealed to a Melbourne public that they had
a poet among them. Lord Rosebery’s “dis-
covery ” of Marcus Clarke sent that writer's name
up in a manner his works alone never could have
done. FarjeonandMrs. Campbell Praed, neglected
in Australia, send us fiction from London that is
hailed with acclamation. But perhaps the most
singular instance of this form of grovel is presented
to us in the case of Mr. Bernard Wise, the young
Sydney barrister. This gentleman wrote a paper
for a local journal. The article fell flat on the
public. You see it was only Australian. But
the author felt that there was merit in his work.
He sent it home ; it was not only immediately
published, but was highly praised by the London
press. Back it comes to its native country. It
beara the impress of English approval, and we
actually meet in a Sydney daily with a review
upon it almost as long as the original article !
We scarcely wonder that any man of talent who
can hire a steerage passage in a coal-hulk, makes
for Europe, and when he gets there stays.
* * *
That gilded Potts Point youth, Mr.
Frederick M'Quade, seems to have been going the
whole monetary hog—and a Brobdignagian one,
too —for the la3t 26 months, and his red, red gold
has been flowing into the coffers of the Hebrews a 3
the waters go down at Lodore, only a good deal
more so. In an affidavit which he filed at Sydney
Equity Court, the other day, he swears upon a
speckled hen and a blown-out match to the follow-
ing effect: That he came into some valuable city
property in Sydney in 1884 and straightway,
through the medium of a “friend,” one Allison,
arranged to borrow £lO,OOO from the countrymen
of the wise old King with the 700 wives ; that he
was introduced to our dear old friends the Mel-
bourne 1400 per shenters, Marks Herman and Aaron
Waxman, also to Mark M 033, who conjointly found
himthesumrequireduponmortgage, and stipulated
At Government House on Wednesday
evening, the 24th, Lord Carington gave a large
dinner party in honour of Sir Robert Fowler,
Among the guests were Sir George Verdon, the
Hon. Mr. Dailey, Mr. Salomons, Captain Musgrave,
Sir George Innes, Mr. T. Fowler, Sir Patrick
Jennings, Sir John Hay, Judge Dowling, the Hon.
G. R. Dibbs, and the Hon. J. W. Lync.
* *
Captain Lake and the officers of H.M.S.
Nelson gave another dance on board their ship in
Melbourne, on Tuesday afternoon, the 23rd. The
vessel was as usual beautifully decorated, and
everything passed off well. The guests, of whom
there were about 400, included His Excellency the
Governor and Lady Loch, the Marquis and Mar-
chioness of Stafford and Viscount Tarbat, Lord
Deerhurst, Mr. Sturgess, Colonel Walker, Mr.
and Mrs. Malleson, Mr. and Mrs. Donald Wallace,
and many other Melbourne fashionables.
* * *
Rain damps almost everything, but it can-
not wash out that deep-seated loyalty that dwellsin
the heart of the average Sydney female of fashion.
Consequently, though the rain came down enough
to make Noah think it was misty, the loyal dames
flocked to Lady Carington’s usual garden party,
last Thursday. On this occasion the garden was
transferred to the drawing room, on the soles of
the “ladies’” shoes, with disastrous results to
the carpet. We had the curiosity to ask a
“frequenter ” why she went on a day obviously
designed by* nature to give Lady Carington a
spell; “Oh, she said, don’t you know? Why of
of course on a wet day we have dear Lady C.
so much more with us, and can hear her talk,
while at a ‘crush’she is quite unapproachable.
That is why.”
* * *
On Thursday, the 25th ult., Miss Essie
Jenyns received a first benefit at the Sydney
Opera House. She was Juliet, though Mercutio
was of a different opinion and kept calling her
Rosalind. This was a little confusing, but Juliet
did not seem to mind. She’s a good-natured girl.
The house was packed in every part, and the
young actress received a splendid ovation, wreaths
of flowers being flung at her in wild profusion.
Of course, she charmed every one, nearly—for
there were a few adverse critics, notably a lady
who said she did not think Essie equal to Nellie
Stewart, as the latter made a better yum-yum.
No doubt she does. The criticism is just. In the
dress-circle a good collection of the aristocracy
were present. H.E. and Lady Carington smiled
on the play and populace. In their box was “ our
latest bride,” Mrs. Colonel Bingham. She looked
very charming in a low dress of pink and white
silk trimmed with lace. There was also present a
strange gentleman whom we were told was a
Marquis. Perhaps he was, they’re pretty hard to
tell since they gave up wearing crowns and robes,
and dressed like the universal waiter. Among
the ladies present were Mrs. J. M. Purves, Miss
B. Metcalf, and Mrs. Macmillan, whom, during
her English tour, London society journals have
been wont to designate as “ the fair Australian.
* * *
The complications that have arisen owing
to the resignation by Mr. Salomons of
the N.S.W. Chief-Justiceship appear to be
endless. Like Sir W. Manning, His Excellency
“ had it in contemplation to ask the gentleman to
dinner,” and had so far committed himself as to
invite many highly distinguished persons to meet
him. They all accepted ! Then came the trouble :
the gentleman was not the Chief Justice, and, as
simple Julian Salomons, H.E. saw no more points
about him than about any other barrister. What
was he to do ? Why, go on with the. dinner and
leave a chair vacant at tho table for the Chief
Justice who ever he might be. This he did, but
that chair was not sat on during the feast, Banco’s
gho3t being engaged at a “ seance.”
* *
It appears doubtful as to whether young
Lord Dudley, who is to illuminate Sydney for a
while, is to come in the charge of his mother, or of
a professional bear-leader. As the future law-giver
of England is only twenty years of age, it is
thought necessary that he should not be permitted
to go a “ lone hand ” among the seductive maidens
of Potts Point. W e would prefer to see
him in charge of his mother, she being one of the
famous beauties of her day. His superfine Lord-
ship’s papa in his latter years rather upset the
domestic proprieties by a fancy he had that he
was to be made not only a happy father, but a
happy mother. The idea was unusual and em-
barrasiug, as his lordship took care to be provided
with all the elaborate accessories befitting so im-
portant an occasion.
* * *
The legitimate successor to the throne of
England has been secured by the safe arrival of
dear little Bat. Perhaps no country in the world
is harder up for princes than Britain, as it is said
not to have more than trvo to the square mile
counting swamps.
* * *
There is much talk in London just now
about the expediency of so altering the Royal
marriage law as to allow the children of H.R.H.
of Wales to marry English subjects. At present
these young people can wed anything foreign if
it’s royal, from a Zulu chief to a Kalmuck lartar.
So that he is not English he may be of any shade
of colour, Protestant religion preferred, though
this obstacle is usually got over without any vio-
lent struggle on the part of the convert. Under
the proposed system the Royal family would be
English in about ten centuries, and have scarcely
enough German cousins left to make a standing
a rmy. The Queen is understood to be greatly op-
posed to this scheme as her poor relations would
be thrown upon the German parish, where they
only give out-door relief. We are not told from
whom the proposal comes, as H.R.H. is almost a
pure German, the Queen being four-fifths of that
nationality, and his father a pure, very, native of
the land of Krout. This does not leave much of
the English element in Wales, though we hear
him spoken of as a true British gentleman !
* * *
No phase of Australian toadyism and
sycophancy is more revolting than that which
HERO WORSHIP.
FIRST GIDDY YOUNG THING: “GOODNESS! CLARA, WHAT IN THE WORLD DID
YOU PICK UP THAT HORRID CIGAR-END FOR, AND WHAT ARE YOU GOING
TO DO WITH IT ?”
SECOND GIDDY YOUNG THING: “BECAUSE I SAW BEACH THROW IT AWAY, AND
I AM GOING TO PRESERVE IT AS A SOUVENIR."
F.G.Y.T. : “ OH, THEN DO GIVE ME HALF OF IT, THAT’S A DEAR!
( hat they were to get a bonus of £.5000 for the use of
the money for one year, likewise interest on £15,000
after the expiry of the year at 10 or 12 per cent.,
and another £lOOO for mental anxiety, worry, and
botheration incurred by the relatives of the King
with th-s 700 wives in fixing up the transaction ;
that, upon receiving the £lO,OOO, the trio of good
Samaritans hunted him into another room where
they got from him in cash the £lOOO bonus and
£5OO, being a half-year’s interest in advance ; that
one of the trio and a fresh Jew—a little one—per-
formed wonderful feats of leg in the direction of
the railway station, and, finding him there, de-
manded another £2OO as commission for the fresh
little Jew, a claim which was afterwards raised to
£5OO ; and, in short, that he made himself respon-
sible for £6175 as one year's bonus for the use of
£9OOO. Then he borrowed £350 from the fresh
little Jew and gave him cheques payable three
months ahead for £750, and the whole shivoo
ended by the gorgeous Pott3 Pointer finding him-
self up a tree for some £26,000. All these thir.gs
are vanity.
* * *
William Edmunds has married a Miss
Annie Bond, in Melbourne. A tear for William —
Rash youth of the South, fair Freedom was thine
Till thoughtless you cast her away :
You forged your own fetters at Hymen’s dark shrine,
And A. Bond’s man you’re living to-day.
* * *
“What’s in a name?” In Melbourne
Divorce Court, Sarah Virtue has obtained a decree
nisi for divorce against Andrew Fuller Virtue, on
the ground of adultery and desertion. Virtue
deserts Virtue and so loses his Virtue. Virtue
then sues to be released from her Virtue on the
ground that he has no virtue at all. But she has
already lost her own Virtue, and he has given
away his Virtue. Wherein, then, lies the action ?
* *
Viscount Tarbat has come over with the
Marquis and Marchioness of Stafford. Melbourne
sassiety has concocted a mild joke. The new-
comer is known as Turbot,
Only 59 suicides were registered in N. S. W.
during 1885. Yet 7618 marriages were recorded
in that year.
* * *
The stays of fashionable ladies are now
made entirely of sheet-metal, and resemble a
cuirass. Consequently, when you put your arm
round a darling, got up a la mode, you feel as if
jou were embracing a sardine-tin in evening dress.
A well-known London dude, engaged to an
opera-bouffe maiden, “has had her Christian
name tatooed in bold capitals all the way up his
arm.” By the time this devoted creature has
formed a few more attachments he will be tatooed
all over his body. And when he Anally gets
married how is he to persuade his wife that she is
the only woman he ever loved !
* * *
A correspondent thus addresses The Bul-
letin on the subject of the R.C. Church and the
marriage with a deceased wife’s sister question :
It is necessary, according to the laws of the R.C. Church
to obtain a “ dispensation ” before such a marriage is ecclesi-
astionllv legal But many critics, especially over-correct
Catholics, forget that the plan laid down by the Church is to
h ive a rule with an exception. Her procedure is to he taken
as a whole, and it is strange loyalty to her to except her
authority as to the general rule, and then cry out in horror if
she grants a dispensation. The proceednre taken as a whole
strikes me as simply perfect. The general rule against such
unions avoids all awkwardness between sisters and
prevents thought of such marriages causing un-
pleasantness beforehand, and then when the special
occasion comes, when such a marriage is, of all
the very best imaginable, the permission can be obtamecl.
The public, Protestant and Catholic, who have not the
burden of legislating, and who have not the prudent kindness
which the Church shows for individuals, cry out against such
a wise plan and demand a hard-and-fast rule, either to have
no rule or to forbid all exceptions. But surely it is ele-
mentary law that the authority Which can prescribe a law has
the power to abrogate it at its discretion. The only point
really open to discussion is as to the prudence of exercising a
discretion in individual cases; and it must be renie-mbered
that loyal Catholics believe in the Church’s power to bind, to
loose, and to judge wisely. The obtaining of a dispensation
is not, as has been supposed, a matter involving money.
When a dispensation it grantedi it costs only a letter ex-
plaining the circumstances.”
* * *
The Amurrikan Mrs. Grundy is playing the
dickens with Violet Cameron and Lord Lonsdale’s
opera-bouffe spec. Ladies who have “any re-
spect for themselves, my dear,” hold aloof from
Violet’s show and leave it to bald-headed church-
wardens and misguided mashers.. To make
matters worse, the bald-heads are disappointed m
Violet. Instead of the bouncing, melting, giddy
goddess of their dreams, they And a, cold, stately,
handsome, cruel-looking charmer. Biz. is seriously
affected by this discovery. And to make matters
worse still, Violet and her friend the Earl have
been politely “chucked” from the Hoffman
House. The manager told Lonsdale that the re
putation of his hotel was endangered by their
presence and the incidental hanging around of
Violet’s husband, Jehoshophat; but this was the
unkindest cut of all. The morally-outraged boss
of the Hoffmann House is Mr. Stokes, who mur-
dered Jim Fiske all on account of a strictly illegi-
timate love squabble. That little affair shook the
world something like 20 years ago. Stokes
wriggled out of the noose, put in “time,” and
subsequently took the hotel on the strength of his
ill-smelling fame. This is the man who, for pro-
priety’s sake, frowns upon the “ platonic” attach-
ment of an actress and her earl. Can it be that
Stokes’ virtue has mellowed with age, or does he
imagine that Violet’s chicken-hearted spouse is
also on the shoot l Perish such a sanguinary
thought!
* * *
Recently a clergyman’s wife appeared at
Sydney Water Police Court to claim an increased
allowance from her husband, from whom she had
been separated, and who had been allowing her
£4O a year. On this sum, it may be remembered,
Goldsmith’s much-married parson wa3 “passing
rich,” but in these times the sum of £lO per annum
doesn't enable a parson’s wife to dress passably.
* * *
Miss Lucy Pinkstone, who describes her-
self as “ the youDg English elocutionist,” gave a
reading of Dickens’ “Goblin Chimes” at the
Sydney School of Arts on Saturday night. We
don’t know from whom Miss Pinkstone has gained
her knowledge of elocution, but judging from the
guileless manner in which she drops her “ aitches ”
we can only imagine that she has been under the
tuition of that noble exponent of the art—Sir
Henry Parke 3.
I* * *
“ Humming Bee,” the gentlemanly lady of
the Sydney D.T , who daubs the paint of social re-
finement over the uncouth gable-end of the Aus-
tralian intellect, gets an inspiration now and then.
Here is the last one. Like some of the O’Oorman’s
lectures, it is meant “ for ladies only” :
*• We try to be as masculine as we can. Already we have
shirt frobts, shirt studs, collars and neckties, the narrow
linen tie hitherto sacred to evening dress, and which every
woman who wears shows how unused she is to its manipula-
tion by the had bows she makes. This is bad enough in all
conscience, but next winter real waistcoats and cutaway
coats, over closely-fitting skirts, are promised us. Worse
still, some will wear them.”
We endorse the first part of this. Some of the
ladies do try to be masculine by wearing almost
everything ; some of them also try to be mascu-
line in their writings, but as their ideas of the
male stylo are confined to filling a pepper-bottle
with the smell of stale tobacco and “ damn” and
shaking it over their manuscript they don’t succeed
much. “ Humming Bee ” tried to write about a
Iricket-match, the other day, and the best she
ould do in the way of being masculine was to
ay that Lord and Lady Carington “recognised
everal of their acquaintances on their way to the
r ice-regal box.” We have seen a cab-horse do as
nuch as that, though he was not on his way to a
r ice-regal box.
* * #•
If that giddy old gallant, Mr. Dion
3oucicault, doesn’t slow down he will find himself
ip to the ears in something remarkably like high
reason. It is currently reported that when the
livorce proceedings instituted by Agnes Robert-
ion, who claims to be the only Mrs. D. B. and
leclares all other brands to be spurious, comes on,
lear old Dion will set up a plea denying the
egality of his first marriage. This appears to be
i low-down way of wriggling out of the mess, and
t is just possible he may find himself badly bogged
by the following circumstance. A quarter of a
century ago, after the success of the “ Colleen
Bawn,” the joyful Dion had one copy of the pl&y
superbly printed and bound in velvet and gold,
with portraits of Agnes Robertson and himself as
a frontispiece, and this book he sent to Queen Vic-
toria, with the respectful compliments of Mr. and
Mrs. Boucicault. Now, the Queen forgets nolhing,
loses less, almost, and gives precious little away,
so this copy of the “ Colleen Bawn,” dedicated in
Bouci.’s own handwriting, is to be brought into
Court, together with a report of a speech made by
him in Boston in 1853, in which he was proud and
happy to tell his audience that he had ‘ ‘ married
the star of the evening.” All this may not be
strictly legal evidence, of course, but it will be
precious awkward stuff to explain to a loyal and
intelligent British jury. It is also said that a
family Bible, with the record of the marriage, has
been discovered, but even Boucicault’s worst
enemies decline to believe he ever went as far as
that. The moral of all this is : talk as much as
you please, but never write a single word which
in any way bears on your courtships or marriages.
In all probability, nothing would give our Sove-
reign Lady greater pleasure than to haul along
that big Bible and bang it over the amorous
Dion’s bald head.
* * *
A terrible barmaid row is going on in
England, and if the racket should extend to Aus-
tralia the civil servant, whose ears are impaled on
the points of his collar, will be blighted for ever.
The English barmaid is required to be a lady of
many qualifications ; she should be beautiful,
rather clever, agreeable, and prettily dressed, and
beneath her clothes she should hide the constitu-
tion of a riveted boiler-metal rhinoceros, and u
she can “ chuck out ” on an emergency so much
the better. The latter qualification is an exceed-
ingly valuable one, but it is rare in woman ; so a
South Shields publican hired a powerful but hand-
some and rather effeminate-looking young man at
a high salary, and fixed him up in bangs and a
I fringe and a crinolette, and all the rest of the out-
fit, and found him to answer admirably. He took
his fellow beerologists into the secret, and all South
Shields was presently filled with nice-looking bar-
maids who could throw out a cart-horse with one
hand, and a coal-heaver and a policeman with the
other. The youthful swells of the town rather
liked these stalwart beauties, and mashed them
largely ; they also put their arms round their
waists and kissed them. But now, as the Maori
Prophet Te Whiti would put it, “ the egg is blown,
the potato is cooked, the whole racket is busted
up.” Someone has given away the joke to the
police.
* * *
Promiscuous and unrestricted mashing is
to be abolished in the Salvation Army. General
Booth has issued an “order of the day” stating
that: — _
“It having been brought under the notice of 4h® Bt »
council that lieutenants expected headquarters to conse
to their courting and engagements, and that,, msteaa
trying to qualify themselves for captains, their thoughts a .
attentions were directed to their sweethearts, they tone m
issued the following stringent order:— lhat in fntur
sanction will be given to courting or any engagement oi»
male lieutenant. He must get promoted to the lan*
captain before anything of the kind can be' rocogmsea.
This seems a first-class plan for bursting up the
Harmy altogether, for the lieutenants will stm
“direct their thoughts and attentions to tnei
sweethearts,” and the result, as the S.M. HERAT
would say, will be “ undesirable.”
* * *
“ This is a world of
Some men are disappointed in love, and the WSfe
are disappointed in marriage,”
LAURA.
’Tis true the rose is passing fair,
’Tis true it giveth a fragrance rare,
But a tenderer grace
My sweet one’s face
Adorns ; and the Aidenn winds above
Might garner the breath of my lady-love.
’Tis true there gleams in ruddy wine
A sparkle of life and of fire divine ;
Can it match the glow
O’er her bosom’s snow 2
Can it match the fire of her dusky eyne 2
Can it warm the soul of this love of mine 2
’Tis true the lute can sweetly sigh
Till the rapt soul soars in ecstasy ;
Ah! one sweet note
From her dove-like throat
Would shame the breath of the Orphean lyre,
Or the muse’s song with its godlike fire.
And winter’s snow is purely pale,
And coldly chaste is winter’s gale—
But bright, though far
As even’s star,
And pure as the deep of cloudless skies,
Is the soul that beams from my lady’s eyes.
P. A—y.


4 OCLOCK TEA
In Geelong, Victoria, is announced the engagement of Mr.
Laseelles to Miss Denny. Thus the two names are joined a
second time.
Two fashionable weddings will take place in Melbourns
next month. The first is the heir of Sir W. J. Clarke to Mis,
Gumming, of Waratah, Toorak ; the second, Mr. E. Mitchell,
son of the late Sir Fancourt Mitchell, to Miss Morrison.
Two other marriages also to take place in Melbourne
shortly are those of Miss Edith Jacobs, of East Melbourne,
to Mr. Louis Kaufman, of Adelaide; and the Rev. Marcus
Maines, of London, to Miss Louisa Isaacs of St. Kilda.
Mrs. Fred. Warskitt’s pupils assembled in the Protestant
Hall, Castlereagh-street, on Wednesday evening, the 24th, to
allow their paregts and friends to see how they had improved
in their dancing during the late season. The pupils pre-
sented Mrs. Warskitt with a vtry handsoma silver biscuit-
box and a pair of bronze figures.
An order of merit for servants of “ both sexes ” who have
served one master for thirty years has been successfully
started by a German Princeling. The order consists of a
cross, and the object is to induce servants to remain for ever
in our gmploy. Such a prospect as our hash-mechanic-
general remaining with us for thirty years is so appalling
that we would not accept any order, ribbon or garter what-
soever and “ do” the time. And she wouldn’t either.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Queen has been suffering with her
liver.
Beach wasn’t out of training many days
before he clapped two stone on to his triumphant
carcase.
Apothecary Smith is back, and if you
don’t feel well, young man, send along your little
twenty-shillings and you may yet leave your
marks upon the sand.
There is in Ballarat a Presbyterian clergy-
man who was once a prominent sporting man and
race-horse owner. Humph! Perhaps he thinks
the Book is safer than a book. N.B.—The joke
will he explained in next issue.
Montague Burney has been impersonating
Lord Carington, in Melbourne, and tendering
“Carington” cheques in payment for goods.
The man’s intelligent style of address awakened
a shopkeeper’s suspicions, and led to his arrest.
The Rev. James Hennessey, editor of the
Australian Christian World, has delivered a
lecture at Parramatta on “ The Modern News-
paper.” We always knew Hennessy was a power
in the land, hut it wasn’t in the Christian World
we saw his name.
We regret to hear of the death of Mr.
Murray Smith’s only son at Oriel College, Oxford.
We are told that the whole of his fellow-students
followed his remains to the grave, and we are
sure that all the sympathy of Australia will go
with Mr. Smith in his sorrow.
A London paper, suggesting that Prince
Albert Victor should marry a home-grown girl,
says that the Black Prince, Henry IV., Henry
VIII., and James 11., married Englishwomen and
subjects. A reference to Bluff King Hal is par-
ticularly happy. The blood-thirsty old Mormon
married four subjects and murdered two of ’em.
One Sydney paper announces that Princess
Beatrice has given birth to “A Son another
alleges that she has given birth to a “ Prince.”
We wonder which is right 2 As the parents of
the infant are penniless persons who loaf on the
British nation to the extent of many thousands
per annum, we incline to the belief that “ Prince”
is the correct term.
Henniker Heaton loves his mother-in-law
and means to keep on doing so, though it should
cost him every cent he’s worth in this world. In
company with other distinguished gentlemen he
was entertained with a gratis snack recently at
Bristol, and in responding to a toast he said he
should always love that city because the venerable
old lady had been married there.
When Judge Windeyer asked the nine
convicted Mount Rennie prisoners if they had
anything to say why sentence of death should not
be pronounced upon them, some of them might
have replied, in the words of the naive French
eriminal, “ We have only to plead, your Honor,
the youth of our counsel and the fact that we
have been defended gratuitously.”
“ Mr. H. B. Guppy is completing his
work on the Solomon Islands and their natives.”
So says a Melbourne paper. We wonder if this is
Dickens’ Guppy stepped out of fiction and become
embodied 2 It must be—and an author, too. Well,
well—to alter Byron :
O Mister Guppy !—Phcebusi what a name
To fill the speaking-trump of future fame !
Fill it! It will burst it.
The P.M. at Charters Towers (Q.) re-
cently stated that “any person calling another a
liar, simply gave the person so-called an invita-
tion to hit him, and any person not accepting the
invitation must be without spirit; this was an
understood thing amongst the people of all f rath-
telling nations.” Which,however, is altogether too
thin for Tbadeus O’Kane, who pats his nose in a
highly significant way and writes that “if the
hittee got summoned the P.M. would probably
fine him, and remark, as he did some time ago,
that he was detennined to put down impromptu
pugilistic encounters.”
The Globe reports thus on the trial of the
Mount Rennie prisoners
“ At a Quarter to 11 the scarlet rol es of Judge Windeyer
swept up the steps to the Bench. His face wore more than
its usual aspect of sevei itji."
We wish to say frankly that we don’t believe this,
for we can’t see where Judge Windeyer could
stow that extra aspect. We have seen him on
many occasions, and his ordinary stock of ah,
yes, judicial smile, crowded up all the available
acreage, and hung over at the sides.
A sensational story is going the rounds of
the N.Z. press about Hall, of wife-poisoning
celebrity. It appears that that distinguished gen-
tleman, while on a visit to his father’s station,
near Tiinaru, some years ago, looked in one morn-
ing at a shepherd’s hut, and when the shepherd
returned home he found his wife and Mr. Hall
“ carrying on” in a way of which he strongly dis-
approved. The shepherd was a man of few
words. He shot his wife dead on the spot, and
kicked Hall out of the House. For this he was
sent up for life, and when Hall was taken to
Lyttelton Gaol the other day one of the first men
his eye lit upon was this identical shepherd, who,
with a curse, said, “ And so you have come at
last, have you ? I knew you would, sooner or
later.” He rushed at Hall, and would have ren-
dered all further action concerning him unneces-
sary had not a warder interfered.
A pathetic interest still centres around
Mrs. Edith Mary Blythe, who unfortunately was
murdered at Newtown (N.S.W.) a little while ago.
Herewith we present her portrait, reproduced
from a recent photo. Married at 16, she was only
22 when the curtain was rung down on the
tragedy which closed her life. Her husband, who
to all appearance was also her murderer, was ten
years her senior. Their married life was not a
succession of joys, trouble intervening quite suffi-
ciently to prevent happiness from becoming mono-
tonous in its continuity.
The Bermagui mystery is getting old.
Some four or five years ago a party of surveyors,
headed by Mr. Lamont Young, son of a distin-
guished Imperial- officer, started to cross a bay
near Bermagui, N.S.W. Their boat was found,
but they themselves disappeared, and were heard
of no more. The stipendiary clairvoyant of the
Sydney evening press now avers that the missing
men were not drowned, but died from the effects
of strychnine administered in their tea. The
murderer, an individual with a scar on his cheek,
then threw the bodies of his victims into the sea,
there to rest among ozone and sardines till the
Judgment Day, and, stealing a horse, made off for
Victoria, where he now resides in a public-house.
THE WOES OF THE SERVICE,
STREET ARAB (to Montmorenci Jones of the Lands, who won’t buy an evening paper):
“HI, HOW D’YE LIKE YER NINE TO FIVE,—HEY ?”
Lumley Hill, M.P., of Queensland, rises
to make the following remarks on the subject of
journalism. He objects to the free conveyance of
newspapers by mail in that colony, and orates
thus: —
“Newspapers were utterly irresponsible, and nobody had
any check upon hem. They dubbed themselves ‘we,’ and
called themselves * public opinion,’ and after all they only
gave the opinion of some fellow who slung scurrilous
personalities at the rate of 15s. a column. It did not m atter
to the writers of those articles; they could revile or abuse
anybody with perfect impunity, and they did. He was
speaking in the interests of the taxpayer-; he himself, as one
of the taxpayers, had to contribute towards having then-
rubbish hawked about all over the colony and into other
colonies for nothing, and he had a right to complain."
Lumley Hill, we may mention, has something
to do with the sheep-shearing and hind-leg-of-
mutton business. Ho also looms up occasionally
in mines. Sheep, be finds, can get on without
newspapers, and the same rule often applies to
mines, also even to wild-cat mines. He has
a good reputation for pluck, which is built chiefly
on one unlucky incident. A big man once put a
huge knuckly fist in his face and told him that he
would drive his nose right through to the back of
his head, and Lumley, after taking stock of his
enemy’s dimensions, said calmly, “ Oh, you’d
better go to my manager. He attends to all that
sort of business for me.”
A moderately respectable member of the
British aristocracy has started for the next world,
His name was Lord Henry Lennox, and he lived
for some 50 years by writing puffs on cheap ac-
tresses, and getting dinners from them. He
nearly made a fortune once by wedding a Hebrew
diamond merchant’s elderly ugly daughter, but
the lady’s neck was as thick as her waist, and her
waist was as thick as the megatherium, so
poor Lennox backed out. He got another show
when a German named Hirsch, who had been
cashier to Moses, the cheap tailor, started as
Baron Grant, and went into Parliament. This
tailot’s clerk floated bubble companies by the
score, and put Lord Henry’s name on the direc-
torate, and Lord Henry took it out in “ cham.”
and cigars ; but when he had drunk the one and
smoked the other the ex-pants-maker’s assistant
“ turned dog ”on him. When he was young,
Lennox was one of a gay gang, among whom
Ballantine, Montague Williams, and others—one
of them is now in N.S.W. —were prominent. But
B illantine is dying somewhere on £L a week, if he
is not already dead ; Williams has been muti-
lated by the surgeons, and the rest of the party
are, most of them, in the New Jerusalem.
A somewhat extraordinary occurrence,
which eventuated the other night at a certain
Lithgow hostelry, and in which the most pro-
minent actors were a candidate for Parliament, an
attractive young lady r , and the landlord of a local
hotel, will probably not be without its effect upon
the ensuing contest for the representation of the
Lithgow constituency.
The Creamy Pony : A Story of the
Late Drought.
Did you ever see Peabody’s Charity Troupe 2 I
mean that company managed by Mrs. John Wood,
and sent by the great philanthropist from America
on a tour through Britain. In that trouble was a
girl called Louey Henry. She had fair liair,
with black eyebrows and eyes. The effect was
charming.
Now just imagine her beauty multiplied by
“ x,” her hair so glorious that a sunbeam could
add naught to its lustre, a complexion like a
snowflake melting on a rosebud, but above all a
smile and laugh that would cure neuralgia. With
this combination you may have an idea of a simple
bush-girl who goes by the name of the Creamy
Pony.
But I, coming as a new-chum to Anneraw Station,
brought with me a little dun mare, and in Aus-
tralia they call that colour “ creamy.”
1 had not been a day in my new billet when I
was in love—gone, shook, whatever you call it,
and Miss Cheval (the C.P.) was my flame.
I am not a new-chum now, and am a little
angry when I think how that girl humbugged me,
making me answer to the names, “Chummy,”
“ Jackeroo,” and even “ Face.”
I believe she was just beginning to like me,
when the infernal drought set in. I was sent
away first with sheep, then with the horses, and
then to look after some rented paddocks. When
there, I received a telegram from the manager,
“ Come and remove Creamy, or she will die.” (I
forgot to mention that I had left my pony for my
i darling to ride). I wondered why they took such
j interest in a ten-pound nag. sol answered, “Can’t
j help it, let her die. Back next month.” Now
j the manager is first cousin to the (human) Creamy
j Pony, so the next message was, “Dam Ass : be
J back next week.” So I hastened back and found
j my own mare well and sound at the Mail Change.
I AM soft: even then I never twigged the
! message, but when in the verandah of the house
I saw a skeleton on a couch, playing with the
golden locks that had been shorn a week or two
before, the truth slapped me in the face. Her
smile was the same, and strange to say she began
to amend, like that Color-Sergeant’s daughter in
the Judoean campaign.
Next week I shall go in double harness, and
(rain has set in) commence a struggle through the
black soil of this earth, heading for the paddocks
of hereafter, where, I doubt not, there is a grassy
corner for the “ Creamy Pony” and me.
HIRAM ABIFF.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Two niggers, a drunkard, and a lunatic
made up the complement of inmates in a cell at
Cooktown (Q.) about a fortnight ago. The tem-
perature inside stood at 150 degrees Auckland
hotels are now closed at 10 p.m. and on Sunday,
but this does not seem to make people moral or
even to have a tendency that way, as suicides and
crimes of the ferocious order are decidedly on the
increase In the N.S.W. Insane Asylums at tlio
end of 1885 there were 201 patients under the age
of 20 years. Of the.se 10 were under five years of
age, 59 under 10, and 99 under 15 A N.Z. man
has been crushed by a keg of tobacco falling on
him. This is another proof that tobacco in large
quantities is injurious The daily suicide is still
going ahead at Charters Towers (Q). “According
to law,” says the O'Kane, “ suicide is a crime be-
cause it tends to deprive her Majesty of a tax-
paying subject.” At Rockhampton (Q.) a man
has been locked up because he got raging drunk
and tore up a whole batch of cheques and notes in
the street, and then stood on his head and wailed
“ Where’s my money gone ? ” The Ciceros and
Cromwells of the Tamworth Debating Society
have decided that the N.S.W. Parliament should
at once be dissolved. The next important ques-
tion to exercise the mighty minds of the members
will be : “ Which is the butt end of a ram ? ”
According to the E. News, the “ drunks” at
Sydney City Police Court on Thursday last con-
sisted of one Englishman, ten Irishmen and Irish-
women, two Scotch, three cornstalks, and one
Tasmanian The latest attempt at sticking up a
Melbourne bank is remarkable chiefly for the dis-
reputably bad shooting on both sides. It may
seem unfair to add to the load of misery which
weighs down the prisoners, but we must say that
two brigands who could not hit a bank-manager a t
six paces deserve to be locked up N.S.W. pays
£120,000 a year for railway porters alone.
* * *
An American paper says that the “ latest
freak of fashion at the seashore is for a belle to
make a present of her bathing costume to her
beau. He has it stuffed and mounted on a scarf-
pin.” “If there is a writer in the Chronicle
who is not a liar his work does not appear in the
editorials,” remarks a ’Frisco editor The seven
great Powers of Europe are now said to be France,
Russia, Prussia, Austria, Italy, England, and
Woman. And the greatest of these is woman
A letter from Italy to an American paper contains
this paragraph: “It seems to me that society
grows more puerile and vulgar every day. It has
no longer the witty epigram of the days of Horace
Walpole, nor the fine manners of the days of
Louis XV. I even heard to-day a young English
guardsman say that he thought the Prince of
Wales took money for going to Mrs. Mackay’s
house.” This is about as small an estimate of
royalty as has been made since the days of greedy
Louis XI It is calculated that if the muscles of
a man had the same proportionate strength as
those of a flen he could throw a bailiff two miles
and a quarter A packet of untouched bread 150
years old has been discovered in Hungary—and
yet they persist in calling the place Hungary.
Anyone who wants to invest in a block of
land in the rising city of Perth (W.A.) would do
well, it seems, to go and have a look at the pro-
perty before he purchases. According to an Auck-
land gentleman, who recently visited that howling
desert of dust, much of the land which is being offered
consists almost entirely of sand, scrub, and some-
thing that looks like pounded bricks, but that is a
mere detail. Beeris handed round freely before an
auction takes place ; this stimulates bidding, and
makes the purchaser forger his agony when he
finds out what he has bought. The population is
only 10,000 or so, but the refuge contains no less
than 120 old paupers. Those of the population
who are sober are not land-owners ; they know
better than that.
Tardy retribution has at last overtaken
Mrs. Taylor, the Melbourne “nurse.” For inad-
vertently assisting Julia Warburton to an early
grave, Mrs. T. must retire from business for two
years and devote herself to unremunerativq
labour. She won’t like it, neither will a lot of her
old friends and supporters. The absence of Mrs.
Taylor will cause a vacuum in Melbourne social,
life —the sort of vacuum which giddy human
nature abhors. There was profound silence in
court when Judge Holroyd passed sentence upc nr
the demure-looking matron. A dropping of the,
proverbial pin would have caused quite a clatter.;
And as she followed a warder to the consulting-!
room a grey-haired old sinner murmured : “ Whati
arrangements am I to make for the next two years 2"j
Poor old Mormon ! He looked so troubled in spirit)
that we felt downright sorry for him.
It is about time’the British were clearing
out of Egypt, for the last disgrace that has fallen:
on them there is enough to make a Jingo arch
angel weep. Moukhtar Pasha, the Turkish Con J
missioner, occupies the old Ismailia Palace at!
Cairo, and one night recently it wes his evening
out. Accordingly he issued an Imperial firman t<
his attendant nigger to shine his spare boots ant
put out the jug for the milk, and went off to enjoi
liinu-elf with the Soudanese barmaid round th j
corner. But iust as the benighted African wa
putting out the jug the place was rushed by J
Russian officer and a crowd of Albanians, vhl
shoved the paralysed nigger into the dust-hea!
and took possession of the shanty without assign!
ing any reason for their condufct. Presently th
British commandant heard what was going on ant
ordered the Muscovite to clear, but the latter on!
danced an insane jig and asked if the EngJislsma
hadn’t better get a blister put cn his head. Th:
shocked the Queen’s representaUve go much tlis
he withdrew, and bis enemy remained in possei
sic-n until Tigrane Pa ha, the Egyptian heac
policeman, could stand it no longer. He cam
a ong with a detachment and shortly afterwaids ,j
dull, slcken’ng thud tffd tl at the Russian ha
fallen into the gutter. Evidently the Britis
authorities are getting dem.ralised when ab bl !
from the Nile must lead the way.


“Sir Henry Parkes will shortly stump the country.” —Sydney Paper.
The above is a faithful likeness of the man who
says that rheumatism is an invention of the devil.
He is a gentleman and a scholar ; speaks several
languages, and has got the biggest foot in Aus-
tralia.
Ho is very wealthy and good-looking; has
plenty of friends, but his clothes don’t fit him.
He has completely used up every pro p ane word
in the Colonial and other languages, still he is not
happy.
He says there is enough thoroughbred agony
and hellish torture in his foot to kill every sinner
in creation.
He has been a Member of Parliament, a Minister
of the Crown, and an Alderman, but does not re-
member having done anything to deserve his
sufferings.
He has always been devout; and at one period
of his life a government contractor.
He has tried all the doctors and nearly every-
thing under the sun, but the villain still pursues
him.
He tells everybody that trying to cure rheu-
matism is like trying to shovel wind off the roof.
Or trying to get a sinecure in the Civil Service
without friends in the House, or m.vrying into a
high-toned family.
He says that rheumatism cannot he cured. lli s
grandfather told him so. And he thinks that
settles it.
He is sadly mistaken. It is a fact that a remody
has been found which relieves and cures rheu-
matism, just as sure as the sun shines in the
heavens. It is used externally. It conquers pain-
It goes right to the spot. It cures when every
thing else has failed. It penetrates to the seat of
the disease. It is simple. It is safe. It is cer-
tain.
Mr. James Marlow, merchant tailor, 11, Flinders-
street East, Melbourne, was under medical treat-
ment for rheumatism fer months at a time, and
suffered severely both in health and packet. He
tried all sorts of remedies without obtaining relief,
until he got St. Jacobs oil, when “ the first appli-
cation gave me instant relief, and I am thankful
to say that I have not experienced the slightest
symptom of pain ever since.”
Edward Evans, formerly with Davey'and Moore-
London, was declared incurable at three hospitals.
He was nearly crazy from rheumatism. The
doctors said he must die. St. Jacobs Oil-cured
him. He says: “It saved my life.” William
Beach, champion oarsman of the world, writes :
“ I gladly endorse St. Jacobs Oil. It conquers
pain.”
Maurice D. Benjamin, Esq., importer and whole-
sale merchant, late of Brisbane, Queensland,
writes :—“ I had my doubts at first of St. Jacobs
Oil eradicating rheumatism ; but as I have practi-
cally tested its efficacy, I can honestly state that
it has wonderful rheumatic healing qualities.”
Henry Ricketts, Westbury, Gloucestershire, was
pronounced incurable at Bath Hospital. His pains
were terrible. St. Jacobs Oil cured him. Afccr
practical tests on invalids in hospitals and else-
where, St. Jacobs Oil was awarded six gold medals
in America, Australia, and India. It has cured
people who had been crippled from pain for over
20 years.
William Gitschink, a stoker, belonging to
H.I.M.S. Albatross, was compelled to remain in
.Auckland when the Albatross sailed for Samoa,
on account of his dreadful sufferings from rheu-
matism. He says:—“l have now perfectly re-
covered, and it is entirely owing to the free appli-
cation of your wonderful remedy—St. Jacobs Oil.’
A CASH reward of £lOO will be paid by the
CHARLES A. VOGLER COMPANY, of BALTI-
MORE, MARYLAND, UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives, to any per-
son producing proof to the effect that the testi-
monials published by them in regard to St. Jacobs
Oil are not strictly genuine.
gold by all Chemists and Storekeepers every-
where.
Price, HALF-A-CROWN.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales :
ELLIOTT BROS, and CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
HOUSED UP,
For t.he l ist three months a great many peorl-: h ive been
housed up, because they have not felt able to withstand Ihe
stormy wintry weather that has prevailed. But, uufortu-
nat ly, the confinement and the close a r of mod. rn houses
during the winter season is very enervating, and the system
needs help to enable all the organs to do their proper work.
If these ■ rgans have been inactive the consequences are
showing themselves in the bilious condition of the system,
or in consiipation of the bowels, or in disorders of the kid-
ne s, with all the aches and pains that accompany these
complaints. If you are in this condition from any cause you
should maK a faithful trial of tnat well-known remedy, Dr.
Bell s liitt rs. It acts at the same time on the kidneys, liver,
and bowels, and is, therefore, especially fitted to correct this
torpid condition of the s; stem.
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.
Sheep-Farming in N.S.W. —Wool, which is the
staple production of the country, is according to
the latest statistics, being sent away in larger
quantities than ever, showing that sheep-farming
has considerable attractions. Formerly the pur-
suit was attended with a certain amount of risk,
and the great distance from the station that a
doctor could be found necessarily increased the
danger when illness occured. The introduction of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne has dispelled this
alarm, as the sherp-farmers know this invaluable
remedy to be a compendious medicine chest in
itself, and a specific for all the diseases incidental
to their following. Insist upon having “ Free-
manV only. Trade mark, an elephant.—obtain-
able from a’l chemists and storekeepers.
“ So, Mr. Palette, you can guarantee a satisfac-
tory picture of my wife 2” “Yes, Mr. Podsnap, I
can paint a speaking likeness of her.” A speaking
likeness! My dear sir if you want the picture to
suit me, you will do no such thing.” But Mrs.
Podsnap is a wise and economical lady, whose
hoys are ever neat and tidy in their strong, well-
made halc-a-guinea Suits, purchased from Summer-
field and Company, the great juvenile outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Newcastle paper says: “Whenever you
scratch the back of a so-called ‘lndependent
Democrat,’ you’ll be sure to make a Radical kick.”
Certainly ; and the man who goes about scratch-
ing backs for a living must expect to be kicked,
unless he tells his neighbors that the trousers to
order for lGs. Gd , cut in the highest fashion and
made from the best wool tweeds, are made by
Summerfield and Company, merchant tailors. 235
and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney, who send post free on
application patterns and fashion book to country
residents.
WILLIAM BEACH.
“The Champion Sculler's Opinion.”—Messrs.
Butcher, Fehon, and Co., HI, Pitt-street. Dear
sirs, —I used your St. Louis Lager Beer during my
training for the late contest with Mr. Edward
Hanlan, and think it the most refreshing drink I
have ever tasted. It does not effect the head or
make me sleepy, as a great many other beers
would do. I should advise every man who is go-
ing to train for a hard contest to drink the
Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager Beer. —(Signed)
Yours truly, Wm. Beach.—
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet roams tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
There are some troubles that even religion fails
to allay with comforting ministry. When a man
goes to church on a hot morning wearing a collar
a size smaller than the neck of his shirt, it’s no
earthly use for the parson to talk about heaven to
him when he feels that neck break out of its re-
servation in a new bugle as fast as he tucks an old
one under, and he cannot even show to advantage
his beautiful fitting three-guinea suit to measure
made by Summerfield and Company, merchant
tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provjded from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the parts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of over
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. Jt3T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
The Oriental Gold Co. haying, after close
and long investigation, satisfied itself that the
Elgin is the best Watch in the world, and the
best value in all grades, has taken this line as a
specialty, and will henceforth handle no other
watch. This Company will post a sample Wateh
of any grade or price to any address in the
colonies on its usual liberal terms. A week’s trial
allowed. If not satisfied return the Watch un-
injured, and the money will bo restored, less
postages. Not many quotations can be given this
week, but no one can go wrong in seizing this
single chance.
In accordance with our promise we give a priced
list of Elgin Watches this week. We wish to re
mark, in the first place, that there is not a cheap-
jack Watch among them. The name of the Elgin
Company is on every one of the million watches
it has turned out, a direct guarantee and responsi-
bility.
US’Each Watch is an advertising agent for the
Company. A genuine good article at a reasonable
price.
Observe that we sell no silver cased Watch at a
less figure than Three Pounds. We can’t do it.
The movement, commonly called the works, is too
good to permit of it. If we were dealing in
Brummagem Watches, made in the West of
England, and sold to any dealer who chose to clap
his name on them, we could sell a sort of thing for
half the money, and the biggest part of the first
cost would be the silver of the case.
Remember, each and every Watch manufac-
tured by the Elgin Watch Co. is a Patent Lever,
with Compensating Balance. We sell no horizonta
or other inferior movements.
If Three Pounds is more than you can afford,
we meet you by reducing the price of the case —we
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Thus, then, our cheapest line, and we guarantee
it as good as any English Lever you can get any-
where for seven guineas, is :
Gentleman’s Elgin Patent Lever Key-
winder with 7 jewels, patent
safety pinion compensating balance
in patent dust-band case of ore-
silver, crystal-plate open face £2 0 0
Gentleman’s ditto, ditto, in hunting
case £2 10 0
SSS" Note —The Elgin National Watch Co. states :
—“ Ore-silver is a new white metal, manufactured
and controlled by ourselves exclusively. These
cases are, to all appearances and in wearing
qualities, the equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Key winding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, With compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face ... ... £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
INTERCHANGEABLE SERIES.
&W All the movements of the Watches in this
series are interchangeable both as regards cases
and parts with any other of our cases. Gold or
Silver.
Elgin N. Watch Co.’s Interchangeable
Three-quarter-plate, keyless solid
silver dust-band qgien face case,
Patent Lever Watcah, two pairs fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, com-
pensating balance, &c. ... ... 4 0 0
Same wateh—hunting case 4 10 0
Interchangeable Patent Lever, Elgin N,
W. Co.’s, three-quarter plate stem
winding keyless, three-quarter plate,
patent pinion, compensating ba-
lance, 3 pairs extra jewels, and pa-
tent regulator, in solid silver patent
dust-band open face case 5 5 0
Same watch —hunting case 5 15 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-eased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
Prices of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Gold Watches
in a future advertisement.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


F. M. Darley, Chief Justice.
With Mr. Darley’s acceptance of the Chief
Justiceship of New South Wales, a not very
creditable chapter in the judicial records of the
colony is brought to a close. It is not worth
while to review the letter in which Mr. Salomons
states his reason for after all declining to
accept the position. This letter is certainly
lacking in force and manliness, but it must
be remembered in the writer’s favor that he was
unable to reveal the real incentive to his decision.
It was not, as is well known, the neglect of one
judge to leave a card, or the studied neglect of
another, but the open and flagrant insult to which
he was subjected, that forced his resignation, and
this latter affront it is not possible to disclose in
the written explanation. All the slights described
at tec * lous length in Mr. Salomons’ letter would
not have availed to make him renounce the
coveted office, but even if none of these had
occurred the unmentioned insult would still have
S 1? from the Bench - lt ia unfortunate
Mr. Salomons that the public judgment on his
conduct must be passed in the absence of the im-
portant evidence which cannot now be disclosed,
lhe only satisfactory consequence of Mr. Salo-
mons retirement is the acceptance of office by
Mr. Dariey. A high reputation in the Legislative
Council and at the bar alike give solid promise of
his performances as Chief Justice, and although it
is posmbie to wish that ho had previously ex-
~N* t . e 4 mental breadth equal to his undoubted
mental depth, it is more seemly to hope that the
eirors which have sometimes tarnished his re-
nown will be laid aside with the wig and gown of
It is an open secret that Mr. Dailey would
have accepted the N.S.W. Chief Justiceship had
the Cabinet been unanimous in selecting him
Ur. Benwick, however, went so far as to write
out his resignation and to declare by all that was
holy that he would not withdraw it if the P.C
accepted the position; and Mr. Suttor also
t hreatened to secede from the Government in the
event of the King of Manly Beach sitting down in
the chair of the late Sir James Martin—for, de
clared the Postmaster-General, the elevation of
nMtVftthJn thG highest P lace un rter the Crown,
as nothing l V f ra ? r ’ WOU,d be con strued outside
bvtti lni lOr ° f an unequivocal endorsement
ini ™ -? CoUatl 'y of the Soudan goat-murder-
diL Kn 10n - Fmally - Mr - Dalley cut the Gor-
dian knot by soaping down “ Wholesome Fun.”
xr R Z- .^ r ' Chalmers defines the gospel of
hn2L Gm^ 1 as . one of red heads, tobacco, toma-
hawks and hoop-iron. ’
tlle recenfc storm in Brisbane a
a n?,h f V® 8 blown from the bund of a man in
thrlnf’’ contents were poured down the
wnna b a '°° d Tcm P!ar in the suburbs. How
wonderful are the ways of Pro-.-idence !
The Irish Landlords’ Loyal and Patriotic
Union have dropped some of their pamphlets
round in Australia. They claim that the Irish
tenant has exceptional advantages. ” Of course
he has—the workhouse or the road-side.
Our dear old friend, Pastor Allen, of
Sydney, once more treats us to a newspaper
lecture on “ unfermented wine.” Let the office-
minstrel sing:—
The famous Pastor Allen
When he’s preaching to the fallen,
Oft describes from Bible history the many kinds
of wine,
And he thinks the “ booze ” in ferment
Is the cause of much interment,
And brings down human beings to the level of the
swine.
But when on that subject risky,
He will ne’er allude to whisky ,
And he mentions not the evils that result from
foaming beer,
He, perchance, may love a sleever
When it’s served by gay deceiver,
Who with smiles accepts his threepence and
addresses him as “ Dear.”
Margaret Hodge, of Little Oxford-street,
Sydney, seems to be the champion cat-swallower
of the Land of the Kangaroo. For a long time
past her dwelling has given of! an odour like a
cartload of skunks, a hundred damp umbrellas,
and a choice assortment of drains, dead dogs’
bailiffs, stale tobacco, Chinamen, and larrikins,
while over all has arisen a subtle, ethereal essence
which suggested an unburied elephant. This
ultimately led an inspector to examine the flesh-
pots inside, and he found the occupant of the
house gloating over a “high” old cat on which
she was about to dine, while the yard was paved
with the bones of other pussies ; rats also held a
place in the bill of fare, and anything that was so
obtrusively deceased as to yell with a thousand
tongues for burial, and yet not so hopelessly dead
as to fall to pieces when elevated by the tail,
seems to have served for an entree or a side-dish.’
The magistrate presented Margaret with an in-
voice for £6 and costs.
GLOOK
The latest is about a man who tried to hatch
oysters by putting them under a sitting hen.
Mosquitoes will not sting grown persons if there
is a baby in the room. They probably realize that the baby
causes them sufficient suffering.
A pretty girl should never allow herself to
sit in a hammock with a young man to whom she is not
engaged—unless you are the young man.
Inebriated one : “ I shay, mister, how fur ish’fc
to Railway Stashun." Sober one: “Ten minutes' walk."
Inebriated one : “ Fo’ you (hie) or fo’ me.”
The Corvina Exponent speaks of the “devil”
employed in its office as a “she.” It is evident that this
Editor has his mother-in-law living with him.
“ No, I shall never marry,” he said. “ Marriage
is either a heaven or a hell. lam not worthy of the former,
and don’t hanker after the latter, so I shall stay as I am."
Naturalists think that the best way to make a
wild animal ccwer is to look him in the eyes. This will do
very well, provided the beast hasn’t got hold of your coat-
tails.
Husband (reading the cablegrams)—“Alexander
leaves Sofia for good. He” Wife-” John I’ve told you
repeatedly never to read me a line about thosr horrid actoi s
and actresses.”—
. Clerk < to employer)—“ My wife is dead, sir, and
I would like a couple of days off.” Employer—" Two days ?
When my wife died, a year ago, I only took half a day off. ’
Clerk “ Yes, but there is a difference in—in wives,”
Irate Guest—“ What do you call that?” Hotel
Proprietor—" Butter, sir." Irate Guest—“ Butter? Why I’d
just as soon eat axle-grease as that.” Proprietor-" John
run out to the stable and get the gentleman some axle-
grease.”
Prof. Sweibeer, of the university of Bonn is a
very absent-minded man. lie was busily engaged in solving
some scientific problem. The servant hastily opened the
door of his studio and announced a great family event
“ A little stranger has arrived."
“Eh?”
“There is a little boy.”
“Little boy 1 Well, ask him what he wants.”
A TERRIBLE CONDITIONS
IS M r^ GTON ’ Fern St. (Newcastle), N.S W
April 30 1886.—Before I took Warner’s safe cure
. dld n °t sleep or re a t during the night. The pai
in my left side was very bad ; my eyesight wa
unpaired. I suffered beyond description wit
what feemed to be a large, heavy lump in the pi
of my stomach, which seemed to cause an almos
total bhndness. These attacks would gcnerall
last three days, causing great nervousness, ant
such depression of spirits T could not help cryim
H® da L T 1 had night sweat to such ai
extent I thought I was going into consumption,
can now honestly say I am better in every way
elizabethkTnks! all who suffer -- MRS
railroad men.
Vvrai, N.S July 26, 1886. —I have very
gre pleasure in tearing test imony to the efficacy
°L Oon e of S t S h fC Ure ' suffered from an
hcL n tb /dr and kid neys, I found great
'V ’ ' .‘Six bottles had been taken.-S.
DENN 1 ■ j-ion Master.
GRATITUDE.
Benaixa, Victoria, June 4th, 1886.—Warner’s
safe cure restored my Liver and urinary organs to
health, and I shall always feel gratified for the
same The disease wa, over standing
LAND am DOW m Sound health.—THOS. HOL-
OUT OF THE FOG INTO SUNLIGHT.
St. Arnaud, Victoria, April 16, 1886 —I have
great pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficacy
of Warner s safe cure as exemplified in mv wife’s
case. She had been suffering for a considerable
F^ e Fevcr gen v ral brou^ht and left by
-lien'll' TIERNEY^”’ I’”’ 1 ’”’
It was in the refreshment-room. There
were two of them, a prepossessing young woman
and a fine-looking young man. They ordered
dinner, and, amongst other delicacies, demanded
a tomato salad. It was brought. “ Shall I mix
it, sir?” asked the waiter. “Certainly.” And
oil and vinegar, and ealt and pepper and things
were obtained. Then the waiter asked. “Do
you like onions in it, sir?" “ Onions, onions,
onions be hanged ! W liy, man alive, we are on
our honeymoon ! ”
fjl HEAT R E ROYAL.
THE RISTORIAN TRIUMPH OF ’75
repeated by
™ E MAJERONIS in 1880.
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
an(l SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI.
LAST NIGHT RUT ONE
LAST NIGHT RUT ONE
ELIZABETH I
ELIZABETH
ELIZABETH j
of
QUEEN
of
ENGLAND.
f ELIZABETH
i ELIZABETH
l ELIZABETH
powerful and complete
Supported by their
Dramatic Company.
Prices as usual.
Saturday next December i, for three nights only,
THE OLD CORPORAL.
JOE. DROWN, Manager.
R • L Y N N
* the famous
HUMOURIST and MAGICIAN
„ of the
CRYSTAL PALACE and EGYPTIAN HALL
appears
every evening
in the
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
FREQUENT CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Always concluding with
The Startling Illusion,
IHE VANISHING LADY!
which staggers everybody.
Usual prices. Plan of seats at Nicholson’s.
R. S. SMYTHE, Manager.
Academy of music
-• . Mr. F - E. Hiscocks.
sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H Rickard r
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock
.. RICKARDS-LEETE company
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company o
London Speciality Artists.
ut ““■ •“
Lct fro "
Tieas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuart
W. 5
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Until December 3rd.
YoHTb S T U , C rf.“ “ Rom oo and Juliet,” “As
I™ Blk ®, R' Much Ado About Nothing ”
Hamlet, Cymbeline,” “Ring of Iron ” “Mad
&c. &f. e ’ Brokenld °V’ “My Milliner’s Bill,”
Hobart, Boxing Night. Brisbane, May 1, 1837.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised, 1867.)
Mana S° r Mr. Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
SC Dec!? Art8 ’ Clarence Town ’ to-night, Thurs.
School of Arts, Dungog, Frid. and Sat., Dec. 3 and 4
Stroud, Copeland, Taree, & c ., to follow.
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ART
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; al
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
XXT j O H N s O I
»T • COOPER, SURVEYOR, J
_ and
licensed gauger
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELANI
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Talk
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine a;
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible pricos.
IN ALL ITS BRANCHES,
Ar HAM B R A MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shut,
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
I*. ; Balcony, 6d.
d Concert S P irituel Kvcry Sunday Even in g
Department of Public Works,
Sydnoy, November .'SO, 1886.
I RENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particularsVee
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
tenderers may he in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
tim terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Construction and Erection of
Wrought Iron Elevated Ser-
vice Tank at Newcastle, con-
tract 19, Hunter River Dis-
trict Water Supply
Supply of Cedar, Great Northern
Railway, during 1887
Erection of Station Buildings at
Mandurama and Lyndh'urst,
Railway Blayney to Cowra
Erection of Waiting Sheds at
Monteagle and Roorawatha—
Section 2 Murrumburrah-
Blayney Railway
Construction of Bridge, Dttra-
wank Creek-road, Taree, to
North Forster
Construbtibh of Bi-idge; tilbiistef
Creek-road, Armidale to
Puddle-dock
Supply of Ironmongery, Roads
Department, during 1887
Do. Ship Chandlery
Do. Brushware
Do. Tools
Refrigerating Appliances and
Alterations, Meat Market,
Darling Harbour
Taking down and removing Old
Building in Phillip-street
Tuesday,
December t,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf at head
of Blackwattle Bay
Making new Cutting and Widbh-
ing a portion of Y&nko Cteok
Supply ahd Delivery of Billet
Wood, Great Northern Lines
during 1887
Lease of Bight to advertise in
North Shore Tramways, 3
years, Ist Jauuary, 1887
Ditto ditto ditto, Sydney, ditto
ditto ditto
Alteration, &c., Telegraph De-
partment, General Post Office
Supply and Fitting in Compound
Engine and Boiler, Steamer
“ Aiax.”
Bridge, Muttama Creek, at
Muttama Railway Station
Supply of Axle Boxes—Railway
Department
Tuesday,
December 14 ,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Court House and
Wardens’ Quarters, Silverton
Laying and Jointing about Five
Miles Piping—Sydney YFater
Supply
Erection of New Court House
Hay
Construction of Passenger Sta- j
tion Buildings, Cootamundra J
Tuesday,
December 21,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Barracks,
Station, Garden Island
Tuesday,
December 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Steel-wire Rope, North
Shore Cable Tramway
Tuesday,
January 11,
at 11 o'clock.
ALL THE MOST
Modem and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY
USE.
the old established
American Carriage
EMPORIUM
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
Hiram
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.


T
HE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, 64 Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 84 Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed, on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
THE MERCANTILE BAM OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager : i Secretary :
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, Newcastle
and Brisbane. , „ ,
London Branch: 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank or
England.
RM . RILEY
• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained u
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R. s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
exp.-'aiti-n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
ptoaipf .y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
T
HE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
DXCI iTB
T. JONES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London).
Medicine, Perfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI,
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR SOUTH AM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Fves. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its l agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street only.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons ;
also,
Rum Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from £
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
:oq» KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 Georgc-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscope", Stereoscopes, Praximscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Rear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curio:,, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kmd under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
QUEENSLAND
RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herbert on Railway Section
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, sections, I)iawing3,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
he seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crishane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained. .
Tenders, endorred “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail -
way” must be deposited at the (Mice of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 18S7.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886. ______
ruder the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NO A KE,
tobacconist,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
- y\ i ivi
Establishments : 1
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
]?.AJLI_. mall,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING ! BEDDING I BEDDING !
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hS NOTE. No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE~
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLERS.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked. (
No second quality of Kapox at Lawler s.
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw —three
qualities.
1 Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
n
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
S>?nd for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
RUSTOR PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TTshould use fPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
r L o U BI
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest andmostapproved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MIL L,
i 831 Geobge-strekt, Sydney,
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CURES where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as it
DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER 1 , and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians aad
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CURE AMD A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Ll, [ er >
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
■Rricht’s Disease Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses Jaundice, Biliousness Headache Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pams m the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urme ' SEED TEE ‘WAENINQ-.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for w eeks,
months or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following .
KIDNEY
DISEASE
' Pain in Small of Back, Pain in
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
Jjeen used without good effect.
DYSPEPSIA
I Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach,Bad Taste
in the Month, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia. _ . . .
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not p>T wy
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Manufacturing 1 Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
rHE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
d
y
&
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS &c
ST
3VDNEV |
Opposite- Lassetters
- i ... *
EE IST IN'ETLILi“ST’S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING-
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
SXHJB
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
„ and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. LFor
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
T
he BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET,
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve fund
£1,000,000
675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
high-class photography.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT &. Go.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them. _
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknewledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in tne
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., win
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
GROSVENOR
books, books, books.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
f AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
/OOjUvU Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
wm
OUKES-
-17 CKEMUN
Chanty
*4M B U '
r
ZJSa£&-
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of j£l Order to be found in the
'LARGE BOTTLES" OP WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS-


RAW VASELINE.
A
Ql
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
d
fg
- ,v &
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
HOIESALE MANUFACTURE!
ONFECTIONER
IZOfavrge Jtv
/S YD&Jk'Y,
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam wbmrs ; KENT s T near Er shine ST
Ca&m* aw' 4)a*o, auo l
iv omotrtom shoutcst nonce.
m
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DAMS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
\
H
0
jr
<r>T
UEEN6V aN .?
*aS33£<£;CURErOR
ASTHMA. BRONCHITIS
COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
HAM r^
■ T o isT. U
T i J,--: UNLY
Hw MAS IN G
Koc K H A M
p
I
L
U
L
I
F
E
R
A
n
J!
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natura
fragrance,
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRIEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare andpeculiar fragrance, ano being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents,
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the ipowth and
improving the appearance oi the hair
guaranteed perfectly harn Jess. ’
ATKINSON S. FLORIDA VATER
an exceptional!y fine perlume foi the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice't exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. A E. ATKINSON,
si, Old Bond Street, London.
Mark—“Whiteßose" on“ Golden j
Lyre.”
E
CORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
r e on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
"V've. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Yincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets.
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, See., See.
** THE new south wales property
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
ana TT < U posits for 12 montlas; FIVE PER CENT.
CF\tt WARDS for shorter Periods; FIVE PER
ft r " sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
ttQ ch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
Y, WARHEAM,_Manager,
invite inspection of our LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK o' all classes of
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
AND
G-EnSTEiR.A.Ij FURNISHIN-G DIRAAiPIER'Sr.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
r
MM
U -
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
2ft £0 18 0
3ft 10 0
3ft. Gin. ...12 0
4ft 14 0
4ft. 6in. ...15 0
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTR AIL, £2 ss.
&2T Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide. TEU
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
m
a
Hi
a
>
k
&
X/
MANUFACTURING HATTERS- 1
GEORGE STREET
S VD N EV
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Hiram izcu
sera fty shoe mim, bbccebi
in
k JTi
rrr
r-iri- i
HAUTHAWATC
111 lomu
Peerless
i lecessity n ararj
family. It blacks ui
polishes Ladies 1 as 3
Childrao’s
Shoes, Bobbers ibJ
Satchel* titles!
Miog. Ilviyi
Cfrss satlsfacfim
Boston, fS69, l§ COBCSdsd tB 1$
fi™* 1 JIjS'TBE ITUDiM*
C.L.HAUTHAWAY&SONCI
Ml A 838 Ctßfrcaa Street, Seats*
mass.. U.B.A,
UMBRELLAS
kecoveeec?
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tunes. Repairs neatly executed.
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunneryetter,
you prealc my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
Capital .... £35,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
M
O N U M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maroaret-street, Wynward square, Sydney
S
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
N C RV
BRAIM
TREATMENT
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol ortobaeeo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
zas., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
ANTE'E SEX boxes T'-' cure any case. With each order re-
cetved byus for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
issued only by reatlJienr ' dOOS not effeot a cure - Guarantees
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<=£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Li veb
Fills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
n )o ? ces confining 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
Go Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR EAMILY liniment.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Jyhitlows, Chapp sd Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WKST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’CONN ELL STREETS,
&
Tirs^
X* O PI A N °F°R T K,
o&OO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
I Ml ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-street.
r
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENIW 00]) J URNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many euite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New>
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
IL
W
iINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
C 2;
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAr!
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
W A^™ S for Choico China, "&C.,
andLaml ELEGANT - Newton,
'VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW*WINDOW
rvr S H I T ES ; Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
WALL-MmxtOßS and
m Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mTrrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb. ’
a
0
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-arb
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.-The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in cur Showrooms. A visit of inspection ia
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
-
mi
!■/
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Fed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order n
any material.
df
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
) Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
K DD l^;^ U . deBcriptions at lowest rates.!
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SPRING MATTR ASSES
Woven Wire, best;
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from lis. each,
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.
gd


Jo 1/0 !
Comaj ipe yooV)(£<xi®
Jfi] s Hslws $' vs ‘So &
far ju. m a/ ifa s „ _
c sfocK Sniblui;<s a pipb uJuufd prjy/q
juia( ft Ipy fjofixz j' "
appyftyou&ljf-
(paf pock at ~ r -.
JU jttphfyd pjoikz 1
VlciHar® rnyjeff T Jo fhuSorfof
yificf particularly yaaify 1 '
C u T“ TooT “
I c.LoT+cnC, t^=_
jiFPAircs
M EATL'
\J
ja { T}incf ctfirl 1
''tf>ai fj jSS Kjp
fy-Jp. Mw 5 j
fo rye I jiyd /
frurnt
r ° 3 JoVZ
I f/at a poscufiar'
$y _
V-r—
-r
//
s
/
ook-afy(£,ra> " ia i<j
No 9999 ' 'ad rr?y fi&yo, or)
ya 3 fromr) . G)\)y doyl’yer ryow
i
i
_ ij'tei? * * * * * *
** ayd id x) bob slpaff be
urj - J?y JoVQ/'.
(g 9)
ackiptosf,
' vvbj bfoucflft
add ref) (£<V-
f. p / -Wo 9999 jahsfiad
himself aj offpz
OOli?,<aycL-cl[( ( S lda(C ibat ends
tideCt, f/-o/b.
He Wanted His Coat.


K
C/(S^ ?/ c) N^>
iSYTHE PROPRIETOR XL/ m^m/u/name
BY THE FKCfP it TOR, D CLEAf/s/flG PROPERTIES.
T B,MelhuisH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 William ST, S YD N£ Y^jj
pENITCN
SALK ©Yll
DOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.|
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S 3 OH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.,
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
mam
<V J
''•'iihiAs—
w
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYSj
f ALL NOXIOUS INSECT%
FLEAS. FL1ES. BEETLES. MOSOU
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO Bl RDS DOGS,
FOWLS OROTHER '
ANIMALS
St.
!
5
ip
A
PbyAU chemists;
AND STOREKEEPERS:
WMOUSAlE ;
FELTON-
- MELBOURNE ,
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
'•M
For Renewing Ebonized Cabinets,
Desks, Workboxes, &c.
For Reviving Plates, Knobs, Loeks, &e.
For Renewing Carriage Lamps.
For Painting Picture Frames, &«., &c.
U- and 2/6 per Bottle. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c,
Daniel JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENRY LAN OYSTER,
/ C/S TGRA/*.
/ O/r
- GAj.VA/V£SG‘£> _■;
#
CAffT.
lilllllilll
OT WATER
ID I Milniniiijn
CYLJNDERI
jilBlNB
NOT AFFECT E
BY WEATHER
IRAN
!
irnruE trough
c^nnoi
BROKEN
IFOR many years
engaged in the
Lkadino Workshops
or England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. a.
funnels, ventilators,
& c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 Q-EORG-E STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
ORGANS!
SOLE AGENTS FOB, THE
“SMITH.”
BKUCE & MASSEY,
PIANOS,
ORGAN S, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Abraham s pills,
v THE GEEAT LIYEE EEIEDY.
from Dandelion, and free from the
kHh P al 'ticle of mercury or mineral substance,
Wj., Popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
“Wq’ 80 simple, yet most effective ; they can be
kJPghly recommended, being a carefully pre-
*■'- ■ Preparation, and the result of practical ex-
They overcome the worst form of
of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
, yet to hear that they have not afforded
eai ate relief.
GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRAD* MARK-"™™; NmiVLV*»
lach cil nurvjp force, a* m • . n *
lx. digestion, Loss of Appetitij. Female
Ki.lmojr Complaints, General Prostration IwipJvSUhoa WoS^
J reinntiw iodine, Loss of Vita.) Power, &S By ua
a ' »oothuo; affects it at once removes aU iLt ine fiS
\lcoliol. By its richness in phosphorous and other nnwLrfei
ntaUsbiffpleuioßt.B, MARSHALL S TON i On P: ?tV r^rr?!? 1 !
tel.es and gives vigor to the whole '
’ss.w'rEasmX****-'-
*"» sraSMTO'A
GINAL
aftUBA KING
Wn
AN U OSUf
OBTAIN EB A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT!
\v r:-
•«;
WK
7--
ISTHEBESTINTHE WORLD !!
NONE OTHER BUT •
m
tfAKUf ACTOR ED BYJaMES CHAHHOH
Harbour Syomry <
S«ld by All Grocer*and storekeeper*
m
/I 8 ‘ LOlV f'Jj y
vl7 —in
h . .
M ARSHALL BROf
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABCTH ST
k i
Robert butcher & co,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
M3T Country" Orders receive prompt attention.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED I 860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c„ from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
lit
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
D“ RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into tbe
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BKOTHERS,
CONFECTIONEES, 'OB
505, 507, GEORGE STREET,
tSB" Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in \ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Noth. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Mercbait,
281 George-strhet, Sydney.
4
fn
'S
Safe
Finger on the trigger-line, keeping cool and steady.
No fussing round the camera, or firing till you’re
ready;
Train, or tram, or steamer, tricycle or bike,
There’s nothing now half fast enough, take which
one you like.
By the sad sea waves she photos while they moanj
Of love she never raves, but plays her hand alone:
Her camera the friend to help her fancy’s flight |
Her life is one long blond of beauty with, delighfct
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can
prices to suit all requirements. uau ai *
LICHTNER AND CO
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
4®* Send for Catalogue. "Ban
“ BOOKS.” Any Book Yon Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS <Sc ROBERTSON
113 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. 9
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Prioe of any book on application. ißook* u_
mail to any part of Australia. * - satit by


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propeller*, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaNIT9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
- ; 2 '■ • ' V
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. -A.. Pay dc Co., C1n.c12n.30.a-ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
I?- X - !X_i^^lE^lEaZT^T 7
IMPORTER OF \\ I\ ES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLE,SALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines"
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OP ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OP WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at. the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
US' A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOYE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
* Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to Ms famous £3 Oases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM l Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS' 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Oases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchaser* in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
W&LLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUgpDRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE "LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION. m 7"S
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
SALIC
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus — . ,
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fo? LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London , Hsr’c., &*c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents j Montefiobe, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
J. #M.T aELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, jjAND jMEN’S MERGER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and]!Sb0 eS *
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THF..BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.!
C .A. Xj Hi A. ‘X'
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace,
Where you can get
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to youi measure) f° r
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Pit Guaranteed.
SST PATTERN jAND MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST. A® l
722 George-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music
Rail.
PERDRIAU & 00.
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
18 ERSKINE STREET,
m- GARDEN HOSE, ALL SIZES AND LENGTHS. TE»
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
w
fgdfgdf
■OOT A
1
AShoe BaZAM^
25za George S f ■
l als Pectfe gjrujL /fares? urb $1
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
#EXT TO ROYAL H OTEL, and at 652 jG EOR GE ST
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is.-—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for 'coughs Is.
Clayton sNervine tor toothache and cold in the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Bear’s
•- “Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
Educing whiskers. 2s. 6d.,
APPLY FORJMST, ;SAVK MONKY.I
HIM
WASHINGTON IH. SOUL
XT7, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
£ CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL .STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LHNT AT THE LOWEST RATF OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY,
; Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the &
( per month.
Loans"on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOB
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the'Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET,
Send for Price List.
The fresh food and ice co#?
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCAI^
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa*
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left
by their carts.
They have"’also taken over the
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended *“
nary complaints.
tot
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO.,
Head Office 21 H» rb ?S«fc
Stables Liverpool-** 1 *
Factory Mittago»»’x
Guinness’ Extra St o^"
FIRST QUAINT*'
II- 11 '
C?«ol
BASS’ PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to t*
ZTICOIiONIAIi MO IVIIIiX ESJ**® 1
LONDON,
By Special Appoißtmeßk i
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH (jU'l
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON “X
Commercial Chambers, IBond'SW*®^^
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY" & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY COP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER."-LANCET.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS. A
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigor# 0 '
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY COLD MEDAL for JErated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
