

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
%
PROQF^v
on E v 5
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
r 512 GEORGE STREET, j£SYDNEY.
a
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.j
yS.
‘"‘N
.V s >
' ' %t|*s
#‘
fgd
'X3
IJOOT
Uazaar
' 252 a George S t
r. I of-# Peate aruZ- Ifafcourl SyDJYJ&Y
HARD MAN BROS.
Golden Syrup/
'< - ' O >/ ann
ANUFACTURERS
Villi’.)" II I) ' li 'H II ■;' Treacle
PFE/N EPS
,JM,,...... h (fIjZQP
t\ cm> rr 7 » fm imnnnr r
y^ u °
BRANCH, GEORGE S t , SYDNEY.
head office & factory, Newtown
J. M. BLLEROAMP,
GLOYER. HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
Sto
aw
I
MGAETHY cSfc 00.,
TOBACCO IMIIEKOiai-A.iISrTS.,
669 G-eorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
StT Depottfor all Cameron Bros. and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
LEA&PERRINS’SAUCE
AUC
....
t.
Tn consequence of Imitations of THE IVOR Cls SI LRSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive, the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fo> LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, drV., Sfc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholeeale Ajjent#: Montefioke, Joseph & Go.; David Cohen & 00., Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL ! IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
I
bris£!
as
i
gw a
Importers of
STEAM. ENGINES, EiSSraumS’ TOOTS and -REQUISITES WOOD-WOBEIN G MACHINERY
RA3LWAI and otEer CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AG.KICLLTOEA.L MPLEMBSTS MINING
CRUSHING, imi 'WINDING ILA.OT, DU MPS, COACHBLILBERS’ M.A.TER.XAI4S
aqU AlTtma’ SUIIUES. &,e.
ROBERTS,
Head Warehouse -
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores -
CHALMERS, &
54 YORK STREET.
HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING.
id intiey-
w
\wA ia ufi
UK rMI
iitaUu
mmmm
f Si)
ikl
’<<22l
I
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY
i\i & SONS
QUERU^
YANKEE Dooj5 Lb
SI R R 0 G 0« ~r
ILROD
oixson
oixson & sons
oixson & SONS
C
DIXSON & SONS
ROMA rtt
CUT..nT,«^ oj![
RX.RUBY.ORIENTANJ 1 * * c ,
CIGARETTE r,OLD LEAP-*
m
m
0*
1
OTS
ww
I'oO* 9
w
SM*
2
IA# P
H TfiAM*'*'"-
p>
\
ss&i
e
gf
&
i£>
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotib-flacb an® Gkorgb-stkjcet.
K. HAMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
ftrst-olase Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
Geor«e-etreet and Oharlotte s place. Orders by post sottoited.
Mrs. Hanney attends persdnaHy on lady patrons.
ig
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LAfiGE
stocks
newest^ 5
highestfTnish
AT
I nwFST CQSI
c V&.
"* 9 A
\to' sI L
>•
(# s
IaUN
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED FOB
fill?
C oV? L
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
s1


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4.~ No. 172-New Series.
BATPBDAY. AUGUSr 28, 1886.
Price—o 4.
Drink.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, AUGUST 28, 1886.
Thh Sydney Morning Herald has recer. .ly
oompiled a good many faots relating to the
drink traffio of the world, and generally
they seem to bear out the idea that the
world drinks too muoh. The w-rid drinks
to drown its sorrow, perhaps, but by a
strange perversion of effort the world makes
its ohief, it deepest, its most shameful sor-
row by its drink. Drink to all men of
Scandinavian or Teuton blood is a greater
curse than kings; drink, settling down in a
cold and comfortless olimate, is a ten thou-
sand times worse and more enduring enemy
than cholera. And the drink habit bred in
the cold olimate, incorporated with the
nature of the cold-clime man, brought with
him to this genial; south, and indulged here
more freely, and with large opportunities, is
the direst plague he knows. Drink in Aus-
tralia is the Devil.
* * *
About five millions a year the two colonies
of New South Wales and Victoria pay for
drink. That quantity oomes through bond
and is what gets the name of “honest
liquor.” How muoh is brewed in shanties,
what;per centage is added in watering, we
have no statistics to show. The statistics of
shanty-poison are for the most part under-
ground, or in the maws of the orow or the
eagle or the dingo, or in lunatic asylums or
gaols; and of judicious waterings, in the
puffed and ephemeral prosperity of the land-
lord, and the jewellery and gaudery of his
good wife and worthy widow. The value of
all these have to be added on to the price of
the wholesale estimates, and the legiti-
mate profits made by the retailer a hun-
dred per oent. might oover all. If we double
the five millions we shall probably come
somewhere near the price paid by the two
colonies for liquor, and, indeed, working by
a very fair system of average, and allowing
nothing for adulteration, the Herald makes
the annual drink bill of New South Wales
4X millions.
* ■ *
Take that sum as the actual hard cash
paid by New South Wales in every year for
drink. The philosophical bottle-a-day man
may say : “ It is in no way startling—how
muoh do wo pay for food and raiment ?
Drink is the second, if not the first, neces-
sity of life. If we oould live on air we might
keep all our millions.” We must look into
such a reply as this ; we must get on solid
ground as to the aotual necessity for drink,
and the service rendered by drink before we
prooeed to attack that most ungodly sur-
plus to which hangs the great tail of our
national and individual woe.
* * *
The general result of drink is summed up
tersely in the phrase, “ Dutch Courage.”
The zest, the hilarity, the bombast, the riot,
are not exactly your own. In vino veritas
is a foul slander; for it is not the whole man
who speaks, but a part of him. Like the
“ wicked broth ” Lucillia brewed for
Lucbbtius, aloohol tiokles the brute brain
within the man, giving him at the first
touch, the frolic, the abandon, the whole-
hearted joy whioh characterises the merrier
moments of oreatures in whom is no sense
of responsibility. And there is little harm
in this. The brute predominates in the
great majority of men. The dootor uses
alcohol to soothe, to oneer, at times to feed
the brute. And if alcohol were kept in the
pharmacopoeia and out of the house-cup-
board it would serve many and waste none.
If every man, indeed, would be his own
physician in the matter it would be well;
but that is just what he cannot be. He
does not know himself, he does not under-
stand the drug: and so comes madness and
suioide. “ But not at first and not without
benefit,” says cur philosophical toper. And
we answer by no means. We know, and are
prepared to admit how sad the world would
be if there were were no more “ glorious
vintage of ohampagne,” nor more “ Health
to all good lasses,” or “Jolly good fellows,”
or “Auld Lang Syne.” The world would
not be so very well then, but these need
only be the results of the medioinal doses.
Four per oent. of the total cost would pur-
chase them all. And what is bought with
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
the balanoe ? The man who onoe opens his
eyes, and in intelligent and unprejudiced
fashion seeks an answer to this question, is
startled ere his quest is done. The 95 per
cent, of four and half millions sterling
annually invested by one million of people
is but the stepping-stone to enquiry. The
dreary, the horrid landscape broadens as he
ascends. He looks aoross a field of battle,
he sees a thousand he knew as acquaintances,
and hundreds of thousands he knows as
fellow-men, bound by imbeoility, fettered
by crime; bodies rotting, bones bleaching,
hangmen and doggers busy, years wasting,
homes ruined, the abomination of desola-
lation with vulture-like beak and talons
tearing at the vitals of humanity, and in
letters of blood from tip to tip of its sable
pinions the word—Drink!
» K •
Well! The pause is natural as necessary, for
If this blacK bird appears so foul and so
plain, what is to be done but up with the
total abstinenoe gun and shoot? There
would, indeed, be no other duty, if, by shoot-
ing, the creature migh tbe slain; or if slay-
ing him, mankind should be released. But
how long has the shooting by really capable
marksmen been going on ? How frequently
from pulpit and from platform have we
seen great guns firing; how with trumpet
and drum, and banner and uniform, have
armies paraded all the streets of all the
cities of the world ? What oaths have been
registered against him, what pledges given
to exterminate him, and yet how absolutely
unmoved, and immoveable he sits upon his
prey!
• » *
Really pitiful, when seriously contem-
plated, are the long rows of figures, the
bloodless, passionless, deadly statistics, ar-
rayed against all the fanfarronade of the
teetotal crusades. A little more prosperity
in any year, and a little more drink, and
also a considerable increase in the orimes
which come through drink. A little de-
pression and a little curtailment. Through
both periods the temperance drum beats, as
through the drought and the flood time the
parson prays; and with a similar non-effect.
What then ?
* * *
Matthew Abnold, in the grandest sermon
layman ever preached, tells how a religious
newspaper, “giving an acoount of the orowd
at Epsom on Derby day and of all the vice
and hideousness of that orowd, turned sud-
denly round to Professor Huxley and
asked him how he proposed to cure all this
vioe and hideousness without religion ?” “ I
oonfess,” he says, “I feel disposed to ask
the asker this question : ‘ And how do you
propose to oure it with such a religion as
yours ? How is the ideal of life so unlovely,
so unattraotive, so incomplete, so narrow,
so far removed from a true and satisfying
ideal as is the life of your religious organi-
sation to conquer and transform all this vice
and hideousness?’ ” In somewhat similar
fashion do the total abstinence people turn
upon us as advocates of none but liberal re*
forms; and in precisely similar terms do we
begin our reply, and, indeed, oan find no
better way of completing it than to join in
the advocacy of the apostle for “sweetness
and light.” Give us sweetness and light,
teach us from the beginning to love sweet-
ness and light, and we shall have no desire
for the biting zest, the lurid glare, of the
ourse of drink.
* * *
We cannot follow the teacher line upon
line fitting his sermon to our oause in this
matter. He deals with a general, while we
have to do with a particular matter. It is
not the sweetness and light whioh are to re-
form mankind we desire, but that portion
of eaoh whioh, suiting our nature and our
circumstanoes, will help to render this drink
desire innocuous. Now to begin at the be-
ginning, it may be said that we drink be-
cause in drink we find satisfaction. Some
want or other is appeased by drink, any
want from the dulness of an unoooupied
moment to the last pang of a ruined life.
And will the want cease if the means of
satisfaction are taken away ? Total absti-
nence advooates assume so much, and on that
rook make shipwreok of all their plans. The
want is part of the human nature, and will
only be satisfied by wholesome food. The
oraving of the want is the expression of the
natural human desire for the human heri-
tage of sweetness and light.
* * *
Ana how vainly it craves, and how con-
stantly, how madly, do those who should
satisfy it, offer it stones for bread, or vinegar
mingled with gall, for drink? The boy wants
vent for the boyish life that surges through
his veins, and he is offered the t9xt-oovered
walls of the “Young Workman’s Club.” The
youth and the maiden desire to danoe to-
gether through the twilight and the evening
hours, and the voice of authority to them is,
“Sunder; get you to your School of Arts,
and you to your Young Woman’s Christian
Home or to your garret.” The workman de-
sires to quenoh his mighty thirst, to stretch
his brawny limbp, to rest amid suoh genial
influences as his coarse nature can appre-
ciate and enjoy. What’s for him? There is
nothing in the world for him but the four
walls of his cottage and the foul air of his
slum. The usages of society provide for him
a horse’s life-work and sleep—and for his
wife, for the young mother so fast growing
old, suoh hopeless joyless slavery, that ’tis
everlasting marvel to men who look into the
essential facts of life, that in multitudes of


oases she is not driven to despair and to—
drink.
* * *
What hope have they of the slightest in-
stalments of the meanest elements of sweet-
ness and light ? Their live 3 are all dark,
and for their enlightening, they are offered
by their betters some few caverns where
they may oreep and hide.
• * «
There is no hope in the caverns or the cur-
tailments of life; both arise in the minds
of men who know not man, but some of
his infirmities. Hope will only dawn when
the whole breadth of being, and envi-
ronment of ciroumstance are seriously
and praotioally contemplated by those
whose positions of leadership enable them
to shape the destinies of their fellows. You
drink, do you? and why do you drink?
That is the way the question must be ap-
proaohed. “You must not drink,” is absurd
as “ you must not die.” What am I to do if I
do not drink ? is the question the moderate
consumer puts to sooial reformer and legis-
lator, and gets for answer —What? Some-
thing just about as reasonable as the “ Pro-
testantism of the Protestant religion, and
the Dissidenoe of Dissent” which the most
cultured Nonconformists offer the world for
“sweetness and light.”
* * *
We have already alluded to the stones
which are given as bread to the hurigry
people, but if it be asked what should be
substituted for them we are not prepared in
a single article to supply an answer. This
much, however, we know and freely say:
Those people, guilty of no excesses, who
drink moderately and live wholesomely, do
not fill up the vaouum of their being with
Bible-olasses, or evening science lectures,
or diligent study. They do not recreate
within whitewashed, text-plastered walls.
They, young and old, youths and maidens,
solace themselves with music, danoe in
their gay saloons, lounge on their balconies,
wander about their gardens, take all the
pleasures which “society” affords, and —
just imagine!—we pay a Governor £lO.OOO a
year to make, before all things, a focussing
point or a radiating centre for that
“society.”
* * *
“And do you propose,” asks self-satisfied
oynioism, “to admit the whole of the un-
washed dram-drinking multitude into so-
ciety, to give them all balconies and gardens,
dancing-saloons and ices and champagne?
And do you think that when so provided,
they would quit the corner pub. and the
gutter?” Our answer is: We would en-
deavour to give them all that is their own.
In the first place, all their earnings, the full
results of their own labour; and, in the
second, all the sweetness and light of life
they were able to enjoy. Yes, we would
burn a good many state candles and brew a
good deal of State lager, Bun®, the brewer’s,
protest notwithstanding. We would pro-
vide a good deal of State music, and make
that glorious breadth of garden ground from
Mrs. Macquabie’s Chair to Mount Rennie
bright and beautiful as any Potts Point
estate for three hours of every fair evening
in the year. We would endeavour to get
the useful 4 per cent, of the liquor so mixed
as to be innocuous as agreeable, and gra-
dually weaning the people from their
brutal excesses and so saving for them and
to them the millions now flung actually as
pearls to swine we would hope to see them
a little cleaner, a little purer, a little freer
in every year ; more inclined to co-operate
for their own good, and less inclined may
be to support Potts and Darling Pointers
and the seleot shows of Government House.
* * •
And do we really expect this sort of thing
to take plaoe ? Are we not convinced by
repeated failures of attaok, of the fallacies
we advance ? We tilt against the humbugs
of the time, but the humbugs still flourish.
We satirise the follies of a Governor, but
the flag flies, and the multitude roars
applause as he passes along the street. We
denounoe the fash, but the lash still
swings : the gallows, but the hideous black
beam still projects ; the court’s impotence
and the laws delay, but impotence still sits
in the place of power, and hearts are broken
while lawyers wrangle and grow fat!
■ ■ ■
We must answer with our apostle, and
say that “this, our sentiment for beauty
and sweetness (and our hatred of hypocrisy
and fraud) have been at the bottom of our
attachment to so many beaten causes, of our
opposition to so many triumphant move-
ments. . . . We have not won our battles
—we have not carried our main points—but
w@ have told silently upon the mind of the
country, we have prepared currents of feel-
ing whioh sap our adversaries’ position
when it seems gained, and we have kept up
our own communication with the future.”
And these, after all, are the great boasts
and the sure foundations of practical re-
form. ’Tis the opening of the human mind
that kills the human vice, and the granting
of the full human heritage that sates the
oraving which, fed with vne liquor amid
foul surroundings, becomes madness, surely,
if not quiokly, as the shipwrecked mariner’s
thirst temporarily relieved by the brine of
the tea,
PLAIN ENGLISH,
The Gold Tribute to China.
A Chinaman never changes a sovereign. He gives
silver for gold, and from the date of the exchange
the sovereign is withdrawn from circulation and
withdrawn also from the currency of the colony,
to be no more used until it rings on the counters
of the money-chargers, or mingles with hundreds
of others in the melting-pot of some Chinese town.
That is if it be an Australian-coined sovereign. If
it be the produot of the English mint it is hoarded
and exchanged for a Sydney or Melbourne sove-
reign, before its Mongolian owner sails for his
native land, for Australian sovereigns being
alloyed with silver instead of copper, bring
a higher price in China than those of English
ooinage. Prior to the departure of the Chinese
mail-boat, the Chinamen who have determined to
desist from further plunder of Australia and re-
turn to their own homes, go to some of the banks
or Chinese merchants, and, handing over their
hoarded notes and “dragon” sovereigns, receive
good Australian gold instead. No Chinaman leaves
Australia—except as a oorpse-without taking
heavy tribute of coin of the realm with him. And
these various sums reach a huge total dur-
ing the year. One Sydney bank hands over
6000 Australian sovereign per month in this
way, while another estimates its monthly ex-
change at 3000 sovereigns. From the other banks
statistics are not obtainable, but, presuming that
their transactions in this particular line only come
to 1000 per month in the aggregate, there would
then be a monthly total of 13,000 and a yearly ex-
change of 156,000 sovereigns. But this sum, huge
though it be, does not represent one-half of the
colony’s loss, for during the jwhole time of his
stay the Chinaman has been laying by all the
Australian mint sovereigns he could obtain,
and, as these latter form the major part
of the gold currency, the sum of the
sovereigns thus seoreted must be greater
than the amount of those changed. It may, there-
fore, be fairly estimated that 300,000 Australian
sovereigns are thus taken annually from N.S.W.
It would saem that our colonial mints are run in
the special interest of the yellow-skinned misers.
Australian coinage is made .more pure than Eng-
lish, that the Mongol may profit thereby. And if
it be asked what equivalent the Chinese render for
this yearly tribute, the answer would be impossible
to find. To take away money without rendering
equivalent, is a State robbery—legal though it may
be. It is time that this looting of this nation were
stopped, whether by export duty on gold or other
sterner and more effectual means. Think of it,
New South Welshmen—3oo,ooo of your sovereigns
olutohed yearly for export by the Mongolian
Octopus I
+
The Cat at Home.
One of the cases which plumb the abysmal depths
of our national depravity was that of the
Reynolds family, heard in the Sydney magis-
trates’ court last week. A child had been
fouly and vilely done to death, and when
her poor body was exposed to the 13 in-
telligent gentlemen of the jury, such marks
were found as usually follow the judicial torture
of the " eat.” The child was about 13, and on her
sides were scars, “ as of flogging,” the doctor said,
and the father, being examined, admitted that a
cat-o’-nine-tails was part of the furniture of his
house. He denied, of course, that it had been
used in this particular instance, but that he
possessed suoh an instrument and used it
foi the discipline of his family was not
disputed. What a light the admission sheds on
the far-reaching influences of our advanced legis-
lation! “ Am I not right in following the law ? ”
says the judicial parent, as he knots the whipoord
and cuts the flesh ? And, by-and-bye, when
grosser brutality is bred by his brutal punishmant
he may set himself to build a gallows in his back-
yard, and with all order and ceremony carry out a
private execution. The man does but follow
illustrious examples, the teaching of his betters,
as he might say. Or is it possible that he is not
exactly this brute, but a man profoundly im-
pressed with all the posibilities of life, and
determined that his children shall be well pre-
pared for them all ? It was held by great
teachers of the Middle Ages that all children
should be disciplined by corporal punishment
because it was amongst the chances of life tbat
they would some day be required to undergo “ the
torture,” boot or rack, or soourge ; and it was
well that they should suffer with dignity. Our re-
markable laws, which really place men in the
hands of any plotting strumpet or lascivious brat’
bring the possibility of our modern torture of
whipcord-flogging to every man’s door, and this
disciplinarian who made the regulation-cat a
household implement may have been only desirous
of training his offspring to a familiarity with a'l
the chances of life in New South Wales.
♦
The New South Wales Army.
Mr. Darlby, in the house of the Ancients, pitches
down a bombshell filled with charges against
“ Our Army.” Our army is not at all what it ought
to be, says the learned gentleman. Our artillery
are not equal to the honourable company of Eng-
land, and ’tis doubtful if we could blow a half-
dozen Russians out of the water if they should
take a notion to run up our open channel, keeping
well under the guns of the forts. We were to have
had the nucleus of a splendid flghting-force out of
that Contingent. Seven hundred perfectly-trained
me*, with the smell of powder in their nostrils and
a splash of black blood on their clothes, were to
have been real fiery leaven to all our military
organisation for ever. But all that remains of the
Contingent now is the meek little donkey at the
Zoo, and the army is no more leavened than Pass-
over cake. What shall we do ? Start another Con-
tingent ? Send a thousand men to Russia to teach
the Czar that he will have Australia to reckon
with if he meddles too rashly with those princi-
palities? Mr. Barley does not suggest any-
thing of that sort; he seems to want a Roy*n
Commission, which means a few thousand
pounds spent in deliberation, some hundreds
in recording and printing, and as result a
document to grow mouldy in the lumber-room
of the Colonial Secretary’s department. We
want men, not commissions. Good, trained, and
experienced butchers—if we seriously intend to
I fight, and not whipper-snappers and dunderheads
who chance to b 8 related to families well placed
in “ colonial saasiety,” and there has never been
any difficulty in obtaining such men as these.
Dozens of them have dropped down from India
and China, and gone out of sight in divers ways*
Nobody was to be propitiated by setting them to
do their own work, and so they were pushed aside,
and the scions of the old stock got in. And how
do we stand now ? If the Royal Commission
is appointed, and if its report is a truthful declara-
tion of aotual conditions we shall find our Per-
manent Force the most oostly and least efficient in
the world, and our torpedo system a matter of luck
and chance. With all our oockorowing and fili-
bustering, our playing with Imperialism, our ac-
tually menacing and insulting great nations, we
are absolutely naked and helpless, and if our loud
and silly words ever lead to blows we should be
crushed in the grip of any Power as jelly-fish in
the arm of an octopus. We do need reform
if we mean fight, and the best reform
would be the abolition of “our army;”
and then the drilling of every boy at school
end the training of every man to use arms
well enough to stand by and defend his own. Not
to fight for fads. The position of a good Australian
should be: “Istand for Australia, do you what
you will with Eastern questions and African
troubles, balances of power, and Teuton or Sclav
dominations; those are your affairs; the good
government and security of this continent are
mine, and he who comes here against me comes
not as a foeman, but as a thief, a murderer, a
burglar, and as such we shall regard him.” We
shall not require much gold lace or society polish
for that sort of battle, the proper condition of
which is the best guarantee that
it will never be fought.
+
Sunday Concerts and Sunday Traffic.
A renewal of the conflict between Sabbatarians
and Secularists in Sydney seems to be rapidly ap-
proaching, and, if the former party does not shun
the collision, must inevitably take place. We use
the cant terms to designate the parties. Both
names are incorrect, but there are now no other
terms with which to replace these. The cause of
conflict is found in the increasing popularity of
Sunday-night concerts within the city. Legally
the Secularists are entirely in the wrong. Ancient
statutes, passed in times when the Church was
paramount, forbid in the plainest of terms the
holding of such entertainments on Sunday, and
more recent enactments prescribe penalties to be
visited upon those who take part in, as well as all
who attend such performances. According to
clear law, there is hardly a theatre in Sydney cf
which the license could not be rightfully can-
celled, while the audiences, by the same laws, are
liable to be classed as “ rogues and vagabonds.”
Therefore the Sabbatarian party, in desiring to
stop these concerts, are legally right. But a
power higher than law is as clearly against them—
the power, public opinion, which makes the law.
Lwb are only potent so long as they are sustained
by public approbation. So far back as the time of
Henry VII., Judges have been found who re-
fused to enforce Statute law because, as they said,
“the practice is, and ever hath been, to the con-
trary.” The case is similar with regard to these
conoerts. The law against such performances Is
practically obsolete, and could only be enforced
despite-not with the assistance of-publie opinion.
To enforce the law would be to raise up new
enactments to expunge those now bearing on the
subject. The colony has forged ahead of its
Statute-Book, and as the people will not and can-
not go back, the next thing will be to make the
law harmonise with the results of that progress.
Divested of side issues, the question is simply
whether all men shall have liberty to follow eaoh
the dictates of his own conscience, or whether
coereion shall be applied for the purpose of mak-
ing men holy. The Sabbatarians plead for the
suppression of Sunday concerts because the latter
are “an offence to a Christian community,” but
apparently forget that a church may be equally
an offence to mtn whose consciences lead them to
look upon modern sectarian religion as an empty
sham. Each soction of the oommun.ty may be
right, but neither is justified in an attempt to coerce
the consciences of the other. “ Let every man
go to Heaven his own road,” must be the national
motto regarding this matter. And in connec-
tion with this subject, it is worthy of notice that the
churches, having sown the wind, are now reaping
the whirlwind. The Anglicans and Romanists pos-
sess magnificent churches and cathedrals within
the city, and these buildings cannot be filled unless
the suburbs contribute their quota to the attend-
ance. To do away with Sunday trains would
mean insolvency to these places of worship, there-
for the Sabbatarians cannot urge that Sunday
should be regarded as a day of complete rest.
Their request is that the Secularists should be
prevented from any “ Sabbath desecration,»
while they, the petitioners, are unmolested in
tbeir own particular line of Sabbath-breaking*
Had it not been for the Church people no subur-
ban trains need ever have been run on Sunday,
but the religious ones obtained trains to attend
churches, and then secularists were wicked enough
to use those same trains as a means of attending
lectures and concerts. If the Sabbatarians were
sincere, they would agitate for the abolition of
Sunday-passenger traffic, but this they dare not
do lest the cathedrals should run short of
revenue, and aristocratic Sydney churches be left
empty and desolate.
♦
Another King 1 Gone.
Another European Sovereign is gone. The
hard-fighting Prince of Bulgaria, the only orna-
ment of the “cheeky” house of Battenberg, and
almost the only monarch in Europe who deserved
to be anything better than a hodman, has been
dethroned and ejected from his principality,
without even a chance to strike a blow in his own
defence, and the nation of slaves whom he was
trying to raise to the dignity of free men are re-
ported to hav'e “ implored the goodwill of the
Czar on bended knees.” Prince Alexander, has
held his precarious dignity for seven stormy
years. In 1879 he was elevated to the Crown,
which, under Simeon and Samuel, had been one
of the greatest in Eastern Europe, but . which the
feeble barbarism who succeeded them lost to the
Is Turk. He was appointed that he
he bondman of Russia, and thus keep
pen to Abdul-Hamid’s capital, but he
the whole Continent by throwing off
and governing Bulgaria for the sake of
eopleinstead of for the sake of the Czar,
time it seemed as if he were to sueoeed
lion whioh he had assumed. The Sultan,
i he is, recognised the great good
rival was trying to accomplish, and even
exander annexed the province of
o amelia he refused to draw the sword
m, while the Prince of Bulgaria laboured
tablish a free nation in the midst of bar-
id tyranny. Russian Influence for a
; down to zero in the Turkish peninsula*
She Austrian Kaiser, thinking the oppor-
good one for plunder and usurpation*
.an Obrenovitch, the murderous King
, to be his prophet ia Macedonia, and
eble attempt to conquer the little Balkan
ty by proxy. The tyrant of Belgrade,
mown as one of the vilest cowards In
ipened a campaign which is now a matter
y. Commanding the largest army that
iwed a Servian King since the days of the
azartjs, he burst like a torrent into Bul-
y to see his array beaten small and seat*
> chaff by Alexander and a mere handful
s. This was the crowning achievement
erman prince, and had his people been
if him, he bade fair to oreate a free and
nation in Eastern Europe, and build up a
ite on the ruins of the effete Ottoman
But Russia never forgot or forgave the
ter vassal, and Muscovite intrigues have
:ied on without ceasing, in order to corn-
downfall. To a’l appearance, they have
1 successful. Prince Alexander, the only
1 whom Europe can ill spare, has been
in the presence of his own army, deposed
a struggle, and ejected from his princi-
ple the people whom he set free from
tins—the people whom he raised only a
> to the pinnacle of glory, and who cried
” to their deliverer, now send a deputa-
Russian agent to beg on bended knees
avour of the Czar. Yet the Bulgarians
e a nation of heroes, the bravest and most
uropean races. But oenturies of Turkish
n have broken their spirit. They can no
;and without their familiar chains; they
fetters to which they have so long been
led; and, being freed from the yoke of
of Othman, they hold out their hands to
ian bonds, which will shortly be riveted
is some one interposes to save this do-
ation from accomplishing its own deatruo-
anyone desires to know how low man can
en brutalised by a long and atrooious
he has only to look at Bulgaria to-day,
dll find his answer there.
♦
The Yellow Pup Again,
ducation Act in danger!” was the rallying
ie Orange faction in the New South Wales
y on Friday night last, when a motion
mitted by Mr. Stokes to allow children
g schools other than State schools to
ee on the railway-lines. But that ory has
oh of its force, although Messrs. Foster,
k, Lloyd, Abigail, Neild, and Farkes
ie old lot) worked it for all that it was
In reality, the motion did not endanger
; in the slightest degree—it simply was
1 to remove a glaring anomaly now exist-
i present the State accepts the teaching
1 at private' and denominational schools as
ng the parents and guardians of children
ig such schools from the penalties pre-
by the compulsory clauses of the
Instruction Act. The existence and use-
of private schools is acknowledged, but
e places them under a disability by handi-
them to the extent of the railway fares,
mopoly of education is claimed by the
should be enforced; if, on the contrary,
ihools, controlled either by private persons
orations, are reoognised, facilities similar
i conceded to State schools should certainly
red. To do otherwise is to apply limited
;i to the consciences, or at least in-
ns, of a portion of the community. This
, if passed, would have removed existing
ity and relieved the disability referred to,
has not passed is chiefly owing to the fact
Dutch King once ruled over a small
tant group of islands called the Fnitea
m.
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscbiption to “ The BtrujETiN’i
are as follows
One year 24/- In advance
Half year W 6 » "
Quarter 6/6 „ ••
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Dteector
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisement,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or dista
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly consider suggestions
illustrations, and will carefully read, and
ledge in the correspondence column, all ’ 5j calf
tions submitted—whether in the form o P Qr
social, or other articles, verse, short tarns
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newsp P
pings. All communications will be reg
strictly confidential. gide 0 f
Correspondents will please wrifc ® “Lpers,
their paper only, and in forwarding
will be good enough to mark the portion
they invite attention. Partake any
THE Bulletin does not neoessarily unaert, “ t the
liability In respect to MB.,&c„ rorwardea.
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, sen flrg t
unsuitable contributions which are m
place accompanied by a properly-ad
s: imped envelope. ’ .. . Dro periy‘
The Bulletin will b 6 tlhd to publish prop
au'.hentioated social items.


Hasn’t Got tho Pass.—The Case as it Stands.
GUARD PARSES: “TO ALLOW YOU, MY LITTLE DENOMINATIONAL GIRL, TO TRIVEL FREE LIKE THEM SEOULARIBTB AS IS A LARFIN’AT YE, WOULD BE AN’ORRIBLE
HINFRACTION OF THE FOURTEENTH SECTION OF PARKES’S HEDUCATION HACT-AN’, FURTHERMORE, A HINSULT TO THE PIOUS AND IMMORTAL MBM’BY."


Personal
Items
A friend, wishiDg to oompliment Tenny-
son, observed that the Queen thought highly of
his writings. “Paha!” replied the Laureate, “ she
thinks highly of Tup per.”
Mr. Ninian Melville, M.L.A., who has
been backing bil's for “ friends ” finds himself in
a tinht place. His constituents are taking prac-
tical steps to avert his resignation.
A Sydney suburban alderman, who died
suddenly last week, intended to try and obtain a
seat in the Parliament of N.S.W. at the next elec-
tion. If the deceased hasn't now got a seat in a
better place he must be in a very bad way indeed.
“David Ord, sugar-planter, aged 71,” is
the brief notice which records the death of one of
the oldest settlers in the Bundaberg (Q ) district.
There is no poetry attached to this obituary, but
none the less it announces that another good man
has gone.
AtNarrabri (N.S.W.) it has been found
necessary to pass round the hat in the Council-
chamber to defray the cost of a sausage and beer
for the Minister for Works. The Mayor says that
unless a salary is guaranteed he can’t afford to
“ liquor up ” the Cabinet.
A Mr. Stookwell, who has been starring
alongside Baronet Clarke, of Victoria, at the Indo-
Colonial Exhibition, owns the island of Anticost,
in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Tbe place is 140 miles
long, and has only 2000 people on it, though it
oould easily accommodate 300,000.
“ Stripped of verbosity,” says Jawbone
Neild, M. P., in a letter on th e D i vorce Bill in last Fri-
day’s Sydney D.T., “ the question at issue between
the Primate and myself is a simple one.” stripped
of verbosity, eh I If we stripped Jawbone of his
verbosity what would he look like ?
It has been proposed to create Prince
Edward of Wales Duke of Australia and Earl of
Ontario in memory of the Colonial-Indian show
and the Queen’s Jubilee. Why not make him
Duke of Jubilee at once, and then no one could
forget what the title was given for ?
Mr. H. A. Long, now iu Queensland, ad-
vertises himself as the “ Scottish Champion
Defender of the Faith and Anti-Infidel Lecturer ”
(admission, Is.) The founder of his faith in Galilee
A Story in Four Chapters.
did not charge a shilling admission. But then the
carpenter’s son was not, like the canDy Long, a
Scotchman.
Mr. W. J. Watson. M.L.A. for Young in
the N.S.W. Assembly, died last week. He was the
best of storekeepers, but the dullest of legislators.
He was a most charitable man; had just retired
In ill-health, to try and enjoy a fortune, and was
a brother to Mr. James Watson, ex-Colonial
Treasurer of N.S.W.
Miss Adele Grant, the American lady who
lately threw over Lord Cairns, will utilise her
trousseau for her nuptials with a Dutch millionaire
rejoicing in the name of Vannoo. Between her
former fianei and the present one there is no very
wide distinction. The latter is a Vannoo; the
former a Par-Vannoo.
Mr. George Urquhart, a pioneer squatter,
and onoe a member of the Victorian Assembly,
died last week in Melbourne Domain while walk-
ing into town from South Yarra. The poor eld
gentleman, who was a brave man and a true, had,
it will be remembered, some hard luck in the law-
courts a few years ago.
The Queen’s appearanoe at the late Aider-
shot review was a disappointment to the colonial
visitors, the Defender of the Faith having put on
her year-before-last’s wardrobe, which was of the
the seediest. Her sunshade especially was a fraud,
It being of the eleven-three-farthings’ descrip-
tion, and dating baok to 1876.
Queen Victoria “oommanda” Patti (who
has been publicly llviDg in a state of adultery for
years) to sing before her; and during the same
week she refuses to ask to Court those Australian
women who have married tbe husbands of ibeir
deoeased sisters. The Guelphic code of morality
seems to be but an inconsistent sham after all.
Dr. Benjamin Ward Richardson writes in
Health “ I have become from long practioe and
experiment perfectly sure of this, and have ar-
rived at tbe sure conclusion that all the year
round the best degree of temperature for meDtal
work is 64 degrees Fahr, 18 degrees Cent.” He
evidently never edited a paper on tbe Barooo.
The Vegetable Creek (N.8.W.) Times re-
cords a great silver discovery near Hell Hole.
Jawbone Neild is one of the largest shareholders
in this sbeolie speculation, and will probably
blossom out as a bonaDz* king one of these days.
All the same, we don't much like to see J.B.iv
already possessing a share in a hole with so
ominous a name.
A London sooiety writer announoes that
“the facts concerning the bankruptcy of tne
Pilnoe of Wales' head nurse” have been laid be-
fore him, and he thiaks everybody should sympa-
thise with the lady. Just now we are hard at
work sympathising with the Duke of Teck'a un-
paid grocer, but we mean to hire a Chinaman to
weep over the nurse.
The Queensland M.L. A.a, who, during last
session, deolined to take State pay for their Par-
liamentary servioes, were the Hem. Sir Thomas
M'Xiwndth, Mr, H, M, Nelson, and Mr. D. 8. Wal-
lace. Some politicians turn up their noses at a few
hundreds, and nothing le3S than a good sooop of
thousands can recompense them for their servioes
to their bleeding country.
Queen Vietoria is trying to get up amatoh
between the Duchess of Albany, widow of tne
aDtleoted Leopold, and her widowed son-i i-law,
Duke Louis of Hesse, who, it will be remembered,
after burying Princess Alloa married Madama de
Kalomine, lived with her for a week or two, and
then was graciously pleased to return her to her
ma with h.s royal compliments.
The Mayor of Sydney, as the universe
knows, has received an “acknowledgement” from
Queen Victoria of the Council’s congratulations
re Jubilee Year. We forgot to remark last week
that this is only another proof of that womanly
sympathy with all classes which has made her
Majesty’s name loved and respected, in cottage
and palaoe alike. God save the Q ueen!
Everyone has, or ought to have, heard
that most famous of all English hunting songs
whose refrain is, “D’ye ken, John Peel? '* Weil,
John Woodcoek Graves, the writer and composer
of “John Peel ” died in Tasmania last week, aged
100 years. He was a native ot Cumberland,
England. Let us hope that, with a sense of the
eternal fitness of things, they sang " John Peel ” at
the old man’s grave.
Hon. E. R. Beliliost, of Hong Kong, has
risen to sudden fame. He covered a oard—the ace,
we presume—with tearful Primrose gush, and sent
it to England, requesting that it might be gummed
on Beaconsfleld’s empty pew in Hughenden
Church, and now Truth asks who this distant out-
pouring soul may be. And the card was not
gummed, after all. They did not want Hong
Kongese gush in the sacred edifice.
Poor Battenberg has reached the lowest
depths of degradation. Queen Victoria is going
to promote him to the rank of an Asiatic nigger,
and as he is tired of being a white man, he hails
the prospect with joy. Mrs O'Guelph wanted to
pitchfork him into the Guards, but there was so
much opposition that he is now to be made
colonel of an Indian regiment instead. Nobody
expects Bat. to sniff the battle from afar—he is
only to sniff the salary.
The Illawarra (N.S.W.) Mercury has as-
certained that Mr Quong Tart, the Chinese philan-
thropist, of Sydney, is of Scottish descent. An
ancestor of his. who wore the Caledonian petticoat,
fled to China after breaking somebody's head, and
astonished the natives by his attire. His name
was M'Pherson, equivalent in Chinese to Hong
Chew, but ne was immediately dubbed “ Tartan,”
and the second syllable being afterwards worn
away by friction against the Great Wall, the name
has ultimately been reduced to Tart.
The Rev. John M‘Neil, of Waver] ey, re-
ported to the Melbourne police the oiher day that
a Gladstone bag belonging to him had been stolen
from the Spencer-street railway station. Among
other things the bag contained, were some ser-
mons. This at once points out the culprit to
have been a brother clergyman. These Victorian
ministers are sharks for stealing sermons. We
hope the publication of this fact will be a warn-
ing to other Bydney clerics to leave their ser-
mons at home when they go to Melbourne.
J. L. M‘Callum, who originally put the
N.S.W. authorities in possession of information re
the great railwav frauds, complains that, despite
repeated solicitations, he has been unable to get
even his actual travelling expenses from the
Government, though he is so poor as not to be
in a position to pay for the medical asiistance of
which he is sorely in need. M'Callum, it is under-
stood, wants neither Government employment
nor other reward; his grievance seems to be that
he is actually a loser through having done the
State a service.
Mr. O. J. Buobland, of Sydney Exohange,
might, had he chosen, have made some coin out of
the Sydney D.T., which the other day Inadvert-
ently confounded hip name with that of another
Mr. Buckland who has just now a small financial
misunderstanding with the N.S.W. railway
authorities. Which recalls the fact that a long
time ago one F, J. Buckland was charged at Mel-
bourne with stealing sausages, out of which pan-
tomimic incident the friends of another F. J.
Buckland (who manages a bank at Mansfield)
evolved much humour.
“ Mr. Frederick Young, of the Royal Colo-
n|a/ Institute, proposes a rovffig commission to
visit the oolonies and report on the question of
Imperial Federation.’’ Mr. Frederick Young afore-
said is an effeminate, well-moaning, oid-maidlsh
person with a squeaky voice. He used to be a
coppersmith in the city of London, never was in
Australia in his life, and, notwithstanding all this,
he is, or was, honorary secretary of tne Koyal
Colonial Institute. Like a lot of other fossils, he
is permitted to air himself in the Times as an
authority on all matters colonial. Mr. Y<'Ung is an
excellent specimen of the “ representative Aus-
tralian.”
The question, “Shall B-rtrand be re-
leased ?” is bring extensively argued. The Bul-
letin, which has ever constantly opposed the in-
aiciiom of capital punishment, holds that Bertram
should not be released. It the N S.W. Ministry do
not find themselves bound to act otherwise, in
consequence of promises made by predecessors
in i ffice, they should keep Bertrand in gaol
so as to show that, after all, there con be
B i? c r,_ a as life-long punishment, and that
that barbariaing institution, the gallows, need not
be retained on the plea that sooner or later the
most deliberate murderer is bound to be cast
loose upon society.
The medical man who looks after the
health of the Hobart people is a gentleman of a
somewhat vigorous turn of mind. A new arrival
by one of the home steamers relates that when
the ship reached Hobart the health officer came
alongside in a boat, and enquired after the health
of the passengers. “ All well,” replied the cap-
tain; we had only one ease of smallpox on board
and the patient is now fully recovered." “ If that's
the way with you,” roared the medical mao, “ get
up steam 'at once, and to with you out of
this.” “ And did the captain obey the order ? ”
“He did,” replied the new chum, sadly; “he
took us right on to New Zealand.”
Mr. David Blair, who never misses an
opportunity of giving bold advertisement to his
reputed book-learning, has been humbly praying
the Victorian Legislature to grant him free access
to the Parliamentary library “for the purpose of
prosecuting his literary studies and researches.”
This request is worthy of David’s reputation for
modesty. People are getting somewhat sceptical
about those literary studias and researches. There
is a prevailing idea that David is not what the
“pros.” oalla “quick study.” No matter, let his
prayer be granted so long as he keeps his wisdom
strictly to himself. The fear is that he may let
some of it loose upon the world in the form of
another book.
The proposed colonial testimonial to the
Prince of Wales has “gone bung.” Despite the
fact that in each Australian capital the subscrip-
tion-list was headed by the local Governor, the
snobs, however much they would have liked to
be in the swim, dared not face the ridicule
attendant on the publication of their names in
connection with so monstrous a grovel. Well,
well! Has our boasted loyalty come to this at
last ? Wales cannot find an Australian soul to do
him two-guinea reverence, while a whole crowd of
people, who are too modest to allow their names
to appear in print, yearn to testimonialise and
banquet a Sydney solicitor who has been sus-
pended by the Judges for overcharging his client 1
Mr. William Green, a teetotal orank of
Highgate (Eng.), destroyed liquor, value £6OO, by
pouring it into a sewer. To dispose of Sydney
whisky in this way would be to confer an un-
merited slight on the sewage. By the way, ever
so many years ago, John Tawell, the Quaker mer-
chant (who built a Friends’ meeting-house in
Macquarie-street, Sydney), in a fit of virtue pub-
licly emptied many casks of grog into the beauti-
ful harbour. John (who had originally been
transported to N.S.W., but who while in the
colony had always seemed a perfect model of
piety) soon afterwards left for England, where he
poisoned a young mistress of his and was carefully
hanged. He was the first criminal caught in Eng-
land through the instrumentality of the electric
telegraph.
The proprietor of the—well, let us oall it
the Alligator Creek (N S.W.) Chronicle has had
rather a rough experience of late. His editor,
compositor, accountant, and horse-power, all got
drunk, and he was. therefore, compelled to dis-
charge this star variety combination, and send the
customary order to Sydnev for “ a man with some
journalistic experience,” <fco. The aid horse-power
when leaving, however, asked for a testimonial,
and he got one that would have fitted a bush
angel. A few months more passed, and the new
Sala began also to get demoralised, and it became
necessary to get another new man to turn the
machine. The order for a literary haok wa3
therefore repeated, and to the disgust of thepro-
prietor he straightway got back his old bai bar-
gain, engaged on his own gushing certificate as to
sobriety.
Mr. Shepherd Smith, general manager of
the Bank of N.S.W., is still very ill. and his friends
are anxious regarding his final recovery.
“ Lord Carington will unveil the Kendall
monument.” We wonder whether they’ll manage
the general resurrection in N.BW. without the
presence of Lord Carington ? " Under the special
patronage ” would read well in the small bills on
the occasion.
The S.M. Herald’s special correspondent,
writing from ”en route to the Kimberley,” says
‘‘food is unobtainable, and the roads are bad.”
At the time of writing he had eaten his pack-
saddle, and was stewing his stirrup-irons for
mock-turtle soup. As he intends pushing on, he
will probably eat his mates in the interests of the
paper.
At Melbourne, some alleged “unem-
ployed ” waited on the Minister for Works, who
offered them stonebreaking to keep the wolf
from the door. They indignantly declined, where-
upon the Minister showed the sons of toil to the
door, and remarked, “Well, try hands are not
hard, but if my little wife wanted bread, I would
have it for her within an hour, blister or no
blisters.”
Violet Cameron, who played leading lady
in the latest English scandal, is engaged to appear
with her comic opera company, in New forir, on
October 4. It seems that her tour had been ar-
ranged by the Earl of Lonsdale, and was—quoting
a London paper—“ merely a bond-fide business
speculation on his lordship's part ” Judging from
that Biddy cablegram we should say that Lonsdale
and Violet's notion of "bond-fide business” was
rather elastic. Anyway Miss Cameron’s American
tour will excite a good deal of interest. The story
of her indisoretion has, doubtless, beenpoweriully
told in every Yankee paper. She will be received
with either a virtuous frost or a voluptuous wel-
come -probably toe latter. In that case the Earl
of Lonsfale will participate in Violet’s triumnh,
ana bow his acknowledgements from a private box
Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, lately
" jugged ” for inciting his followers to tresspass on
private property at Hawera, N.Z., has got his
r*a ne up once more as a champion conundrumist.
Some years ago he gave the then Governor and
the people of Maoriland a touch of brain colic by
his darn and inscrutable statement to the effect
that the “potato was oooked.” When in gaol in
Wellington, a week or two ago, he conceived and
brought forth a still more unfathomable mystery.
He sent, by the hand of a trusty unlettered fol-
lower, an empty egg-shell, addressed like a letter
to,one of the head ehibfs of Parihaka. On the
receipt of this globular despatch at headquarters
we are told that great excitement and wonder
prevailed among the natives as to its meaning. A
pakeha, to whom it was shown, translated the
ovicular message thus: “ The egg is blown.” This
probably refers to the condition of the N.Z.
finances.
Alf. Joseph, the well-known Sandhurst
bookmaker, has ahankeringaftar olvio 1 ’honours."
As Alf., the “ bookie,” he attends to the wants of
his townsmen with a little book and penoil—as
Mr. Joseph, the oounoillor, he throws his great
soul into the task of reducing rates. When not
knocking out a stiff 'unhe is enquiring into the
condition of Sandhurst roads. But we are wan-
dering from our point. The mayoralty has just
been offered to Mr. Joseph, on condition that he
pledged himself to retire from bookmaking. This
placed him in a position of extreme delicacy. The
flattered oounoillor reflected that it was wondrous
nice to be a mayor and wear a chain of office
round his substantial shoulders. He also reflected
that it was exceedingly pleasant to “ skin the
lamb,” and sooop In the “ quids” of the Gentiles.
Further, he reflected that mayoralty only lasts a
year or so, while bookmaking endures for the
term of one’s natural life. Taking one thing with
another, Mr. Joseph stated that he had intended
to renounce his volume, but at the sama time, he
thought it would be “ humiliating ” to give any
pledge. Then the Council elected somebody else.
Most people will agrje with Alf. It would indeed
be humiliating—to become a mayor. Fancy a
man who has spent the best years of his life In
shouting “ the field a hundred I ” sinking so low as
to read an address of welcome to a Governor l
Worse still—he might have had to entertain
“Wales” at luncheon.
The Age furnishes an artless explanation
of the fact that three English clerics have deolined
the Bishopric of Melbourne. “ What is obvious,”
says the Age, “is that a man of self sacrificing
enthusiasm would commonly not be attracted by
labour among a decorous and wealthy community.”
According to the journal of advanced liberal
principles, this Bishopric which is going begging
Is such an easy billet
That none wants to fill it.
Our respect for lawn-sleeves and gaiters has in-
creased ten-fold since reading this. Surely it is
only in the hoard’s vineyard that such labourers
are to be found—men who shrink from under-
taking duties which are too light. Who but a
Bishop would protest against* receiving too many
half-pence and not enough kicks ? But there is an
“ obvious ” remedy for this difficulty. That the
community must remain decorous and wealthy is,
alas I unavoidable, but things might be equalised,
as far as the Holy Church is concerned, by making
the billet of Bishop a purely honorary one. The
path through the Melbourne Bee is not very
thorny or briery. Yet if some seif-sacrifloing
enthusiast likes to come over and travel it for his
bare tucker he will be doiag his Master’s work in
his Master’s way. If it hurts a Bishop s f eelmgs
to offer him a “ soft thing ” why not alter the con-
ditions? For our part, we would like to see
Bishop Moorhouse's successor working for nothing
and paying a royalty on all the brands he snatcßea
from the burning. A Bishop (or his
generally has a private fortune.
The popular Victorian idol of the hour is
E. Valentine Browne. Like Benjamin Disraeli, he
hai triumphed against ridicule, and lived to pui
his proud foot upon the men who once reviiea
him. Some 12 months ago Valentine was a ciers
in the General Post Office, at Melbourne. Hi B
genius must have been unappreciated attnaiiiiuc,
for the question was asked in the House
Mr. Browne sat on a stool all the week, daing
nothing but draw his salary.” As a matter
f»ot, that question truthfully represented t
state of affairs. “Mr. Browne's case becam
public property, and his detractors werei
aggressive that the poor young man was u
mately dismissed from the public service. Me.
while. Punch made a ghastly attempt to be com
at Val.’s expense. Of course it failed. A cartc
which the artist conceived to be harmlessly to.
was really mischievously insulting. The desp .
Valentine, knowing a good deal more than pe i*
gave him credit for, drought an action ag
Punch. It fell through. Valentine - still kno
something—brought a second action, anai go
damages. Then he brought an action agams ,
Viotorian Government for wrongtul diem®
The action was successful, and Valentine b
was a made man. When the Government * .
of appealing against this decision, the dame ■ aD
deniy discovered that their former butt . a
injured gentleman. The Civil servants ra
subscription to defray Val.’s legal expense * 0
body doubts his competence any longer, d « ern-
he has won the law-suits. Finally, the
ment-realising the folly of arguing agm a
—have reinstated Hr. Browne, He h*B Dee »j oD g
to the staff of the Premier’s office. Brio ff jjl
Brown will be Premier, and Duncan Gu
be the staff.
A Bega resident, with a black e^ioh
a new and hitherto unsuspected danger .
lurks beneath the surface of this mortgage
He borrowed a lump of stone from a ql j iar flreo ij
service as a hearth stone, and having buil a y
It he sat down to wait till the potatoes tvou < g
while the harmless necessary doer b®**fvT e 4 ton«
glow, and all was calm. Then BU “ d ®“ f«ii e d with
blew into a thousand pieces; the a> r W ? 3 „ ter ; the
kettle. and dog, and potatoes, and hot ia
saucepan arose with dignity and hit so
the eye; and the last thing the Bega n ’«j, 8n he
was something falling heavily outBide> d that
recovered he found that it was hlmseir, w bil®
he had brought the window sash with * ero the
the explosive hearthstone had gone w reck*
woodbine twineth, and the house was » qU arry
There is some talk at Bega of ? ther®
analysed, but nobody borrows heartnst
any longer.


Political
Points
n H. Givnev, of Uralla, has issued a mani-
festo in favour of Protection. This should pretty
well squelch Freetrade in N.S.W.-or else kill Pro-
tection.
In Sydney: “D’ye think the Assembly
will pass the Income-tax proposals ? ” “ Why
ghouldn’t they-most of the members have no in-
comes of their own.”
The Imperial Canaway is writing a pam-
nhlet about the Chinese. If he favours their con-
tinuance here, there is every hope that the hated
Mongolian will be quickly expelled.
Protectionist Victoria, points out Mr. L. F.
Hevdon, has now 2,500.000 acres under crop. Free-
trade Ne w South Wales, which has an equal popu-
lation, has 800,000 cultivated acres.
In Philadelphia more carpets are made
than in freetrade England, Twenty golden years
mo America was paying away her money to Eng-
fand by importing what she now manufactures
herself. Such are Freetrade and Protectionist
* restaurant-keeper offers meals
gratis to all who come after a certain hour in the
evening, and still, strangely enough, he is not
rushed Bby 8 by the unemployed. Yet many of the
latter say they “ have had no food for three days.
However, even an unemployed workman may
have some pride left.
Diluvial Deakin, that sot disant Victorian
Aauarius, seems to be getting on pretty poorly
with his flrreat Irrigation Scheme. It is flouted on
each aide of the House. He will probably have
to say, with Louis XIV., sooner or later, Apres
mile deluge, and, dropoing his portfolio, consign
the country to arid perdition.
The loekmakers of Munich are striking for
ten hours' work a day. However, it is satisfactory
to know that the police have arrested the wretched
ringleaders in this reckless revolutionary move-
ment. Any reduction in the hours of European
labour is to be deprecated. It would give the
working men time to think. And when they begin
to think—look out for squalls.
The N.B.W. Permanent Artillery force
oosts the colony £lOOO a week. In return for this
expenditure, the officers wear patent-leather
hoots, which are muoh admired at Potts Point,
and like the Lanceabs, they furnish pretty little
so&Bdats to be partially ventilated at courts-
martial,” whereof carefully-expurgated reports
only are allowed to appear in the vulgah news-
papahs.
Since 1862, 32 Judges have been appointed
to the Indian bench, and of these 25 were sent out
fresh from England and knew nothing of Indian
laws, Institutions, customs, or even language.
They cannot comprehend the evidence given be-
fore them, nor communicate with the native
officials unless the latter chance to understand
English, and their decisions are a perpetual toss-
up, the result being generally “ tails.” No wonder
India is discontented.
“ A Native and a Liberal ” protests in the
Balmain (Sydney) Observer against the local
town-hall being used for a Home Rule meeting.
He says that “in Sunny N.S.W. we do not want to
see the seeds of dissension sown, but what we
do want to see is Protestants and Roman Catholics
standing side by side, sharing in each others’ joys
and pleasures.” So that there is in N.S.W. at least
one •• native ” so ignorant as to believe that the
Home Rule question is merely a religious one I
“Another good man gone wrong’’—from a
Parkeuati standpoint. When Mr. Gresley Lukin
oame to Sydney >• e was a Freetrader. Perhaps,
like a lot of other people, he was a Freetrader be-
cause he had never looked into the matter and
because Freetrade seemed the respectable thing.
For G.R. honours the convenances Anyhow, Mr.
Greeley Lukin Is now a strong Protectionist, and
as such will, it is said, shortly be a candidate for
the N.S.W. Assembly. He took the chair at Mr.
Heydon’a Protectionist lecture last week.
Duncan Maegregor (“late of Chicago”),
who leads the Highland crofters, has published a
fiercely-worded manifesto threatening local land-
lordism, and concluding thus:—"Unless reasonab.e
justice be done to the Highlanders, we shah
agitate not only for a Crofter Bill but for Scottish
Home Rule. Men who are driven desperate by
oppression are driven to desperate remedies. If
we cannot get an inch let us demand a yard. It is
far more important that the oppressed go free
than that any modern Pnaraoh boast of Imperial
solidarity.”
If Abbott will declare himself and
lead the N.S.W. Protectionist party, that party
will sweep the country at a general election, for
Abbott is a strong man, and has so far played his
cards excellently. Squatt rs and selectors alike
know that he would give them fair play, and as he
is not a bigot he could be objected to on religious
grounds by no one, save the Orangemen, more than
naif of whom—listen, Parkes-are aggressive Pro-
tectionists. But even should Abbott remain on the
renoe, the Protectionist cause will prosper. Mr.
F. Hey don’s review of the progress of Protec-
tion in N.S.W. has Induced reflection on the part
thousands who never previously thought
"Oout the matter in their lives
The gross ignoranoe of country writers is
once more made apparent by aQueanbeyan writer
who unhesitatingly asserts his belief that “Pik-
f, q? of the Sydney Evening News is a Chinaman.
tne choice of the nom deplume,” says this bar-
ho* n * “f® the only thing in which this writer
oetrays a glimmer oi ability The humble pickaxe
if ,7 tool by no me ns sharp, constructed with a
head, destiLtd from tre day of its manu-
wn !J te to rece ve nothing to fill up the cavity but
"Ooa. ueb is a pie*axe, spell it which way you
and such is ‘Pinkax ’ of the Evening News ’’
inspiration lor this abuse is mat’ Pkkax”
at the O'Sullivan, and to gird at him is to
tuen ov eVery InaD, woman > an< f child in hia consti-
p.?ll6, Pall Mall Gazetth is always inter-
ooln«H tself iQ the public and private affairs of the
llanoi® 8 aa(l colonists. How to make Austra-
tWm by the cheap and easy devioe of letting
the Queen’s hand was an idea first
ent«r A 1 the c Uumns of the P M.G. Now that
Beeko« B i ng journal suggests that the C.M.G.-
donate £5O apiece to the charitable
tion °f London. For this last kind atten-
Belven * distinguished visitors ” have only them-
“blnxLi 0 thank. Somebody must have been
llke n! 0 when a usually well-informed paper
Verv iA Gazette states that "there are at the
fiabnA 4A a couple of hundred of Australian
mate nr * London at this moment.” If this esti-
hom„ or Australian wealth is generally aooepted at
after •« t? don’t wonder at the Tories hungering
hUUinnoi 'deration.” As a matter of fact, the
on oiw. lesI es °f this hemisphere might be counted
Tyson, Clarke, Wilson, Miller
w many more are there ?
hot r \h<M elai(ie female has discovered
bonded A UBtr alian political system is to be
81st of »„ Une House, she suggests, should con-
cept the other of men, the two being
separate, because "a respectable married
woman would not be able, without loss of charac-
ter, to sit in a promiscuous assembly of males ”
Shade of the Commercial Bank of South Australia,
just think of that 1 The S.A. Parliament is a con-
i tfress of dry rot and Dry Creek gaol saints. The
members are grumbling beoause the Speaker does
not pray daily, and yet an alligator-hide female
says she cannot sit there without losing her
character. When the female parliament is estab
lished morals will surely go up. The ladies, of
course, will have the Upper House, and rank as
peeresses, and we presume they will legislate in
lull dress”—a menagerie of skin and bone, the
prospect of viewing which ought certainly to
tempt Wales out here to open the Jubilee Ex-
hibition, if nothing else will. Then when he visits
the council they can put the plump peeresses in
front, aad the old. gaunt, blue-nosea, and angular
ones behind, and make the naked museum look as
gay as possible. The idea is worth considering.
Jar Northern Australia, as yet unoor-
rupted by the meretricious influence of glittering
governors and scented C.M G.-dom, has got a firm
grip of the eternal truths which the busy agents
°f Imperialism and their obedient flunkies a!re
striving to hide from the gaze of the people of the
pore “oivilised ” but less virile South. Just listen
to the Carpentaria Times:— ‘‘The time has not yet
arrived for Australia to ssk for independence, but
°2 e common sense can close his eyes to
the fact jthat these colonies must, before many
years have passed, become a great federated re-
public, untrammelled by the politics of the old
world, unmoved by the petty jealousies of the
different European nations, and indifferent to
their wars. Glorying in our own unity and
brotherhood; strongin every sense of freedom;
happy in the knowledge that we have a grand
future before us, we can go on steadily,
unswervingly, prepared for the great event
which must oome sooner or later. All Aus-
tralians should keep this thought always
before them, ‘ Independence is our right, and this
we must have.’ The grown-up sons of this beau-
tiful continent should ever strive to impress upon
their younger brethren, the rising generation, the
fact that Australia owes nothing to England. Why
should four millions of enlightened people, in-
habiting a country 10,000 miles from Europe, and
out of the range of its dynastic influences, r e
alarmed at a war between England and Russia or
England and Prance 1 If England chooses to go to
war with either of these powers why should the
commercial, peace-loving Australians be drawn
into the quarrel ? Are our harbours to be block-
aded, our cities bombarded, and our commerce
ruined for love of England—the country which has
thrown us over several times to oblige Germany
and Prance '( Let Australians be prepared to de-
clare their independence, for assuredly we can
only gain by severing the slender cord which
binds us to that distant land. At present
we pay for the maintenance of a volunteer
force; truly not a large sum, hut should
war be declared between England and Russia
our expenditure during the time of war would
be enormous. Canada, a British possession, keeps
up an active force of 40,000 men, besides a reserve
of 600.000, The United States Republic, with 10
times the number of inhabitants, maintains an
army of only 25,060, and these are mainly employed
in keeping down the wild Indian tribes. Our posi-
tion is just the same as that of Canada, for as long
as we are attached to Britannia’s apron strings we
shall have to keep up a military force. The money
voted for defence purposes would be far better
employed in improving the condition of the
fieople by education or other means, and by carry-
ag out important public works, to do which at
present we are continually borrowing money. We
pay our Governors a large annual salary, the sum
total being nearly £50,000. What do we get in re-
turn for it ? Some of the old colonists, especially
those who have returned to England, are con-
tinually howling for Imperial federation, and
an Imperial Parliament in London. No Aus-
tralian oould dream ,of such a thing. An
Imperial Parliament would mean a House
in which colonial members would have as
much chanee of obtaining their rights as the Par-
nellltes have at the present time. Besides, Imperial
Federation would not take away the dangers of
being drawn into a European war. Let us, there-
fore, throw away this idea and strive, first, to
bring about Australian Federation, and then in-
dependence. All members of cricket and football
olubs, and of young men’s associations throughout
the land, should range themselves under the starry
banner of Australia. There will be no need for us
to fight for independence like the Americans.
When England’s Ministers know that we want
separation, they will assuredly give it. Let Aus-
tralia strike out for herself aad show to the world
a flourlshlng&nd po werful|Republio, together with
a peace-loving and industrious people, who, have
no interests in the old world, and who are
powerful in their prosperity without requiring
the aid of a large military torce to prop up that
power.” Are your lordships listening ?
Sweets to the Sweet. Farewell!
The testlmonial-moßgering mania is fast becoming
a disease, against whioh it behoves every true man
to apply such remedial agencies as he can. Rooted
in the strong soil of self-interest, and top-dressed
with personal vanity, it defies alike the withering
heat of invective and the cutting winds of sarcasm.
The thorough testimonial-monger is as impervious
to the scoffing laugh of satire as to the silence of
contempt. Long association with mean men and
calculation of mean motives has thickened his
hide to a rhinocerine density, from which the
shafts of censure and of ridicule glance off un-
heeded. That there should be aught unmanly,
fulsome, or degrading in this habitual beslavering
of ordinary, mostly negative, merit with extra-
ordinary laudation, he is unable to comprehend.
We all know how conventionality deadens the
moral sense, even to the significance of those
awful truths whioh deal with the mystery of mail’s
being, temporal responsibility, and Anal destiny;
nor can it be deemed strange if the constant con-
templation of a despioable species of tribute
through conventional lenses ends at last by making
it see m respectable and even praiseworthy. G ranted
that occasions may arise on which the collective
voice of society clamours for an outlet to its ad-
miration of some transcendent merit, is it wise, or
even honest, to vulgarise what should be a
rare exception into a routine compliment to
every decent mediocrity? There are colonial
towns in whioh the abuse has reached
such a pass, that every resident of a few years’ or
even months’ standing, whose local career has been
free from gross scandal, and who may be induced
by interest, neoess ty, or inclination to pull up his
tent-pegs and migrate else whither, considers
himself to have a prescriptive claim on this form
of public adulation. He may be the very type of
commonplace, may be shallow, vulgar, stupid,
mean, vain; let him but manage to maintain an
outward show of respectability, keep his fingers
out of his neighbour s till, and his own person out
of gaol for all offences save drunkenness, go to
church now and then, and contribute the quota of
his insignificance to the local institute or hospital
committee—and these staining servioes shall have
their reward in the inevitable purse of sovereigns
or service of plate.
* * *
It is curious to note how, on the approaching
departure of one to be testimonialised, old enmi-
ties soften, acrid jealousies cool down, grudges of
long standing are forgotten In the delightful ex-
citement of planning an envoi that shall be re-
corded in the papers, together with the names of
all who contributed by purse or presence to the
success of the 11 pleasing 1 ceremony.” The latter
point Is one of special imnortance, for the well-
known definition of gratitude as “ a lively sense of
favours to come ” is in a peculiar sense true of
the testimonial-mongering fraternity, and the
organiser of to-day’s testimonial may be the reci-
pient of to-morrow’s. Hence the necessity for
keeping the names of all likely parties well
before one another and the general public, from
whose ranks the close guild who make it their
life business to arrange and receive pre-
sentations, are from time to time recruited.
The primary responsibility for the establishment
of this fretting sore, which is eating more widely
and deeply into society every year, rests in no
small degree with the “ religious ” world, and in a
minor degree with their guides and idols, the
clergy. In the absence of any State-supported
church, the normal atmosphere breathed by minis-
ters of religion in Australia is one of genteel men-
dicancy. From year’s end to year’s end their wits
are, as a rule, quite as much exercised in raising
the wind as their faith is in sowing and tending
the good seed in the stony soil of money-grubbing
hearts. This incessant wide-awakeness to the
main chance necessarily breeds a callous indiffer-
ence to certain worldly scruples that worry the
mere layman. A kind of manly instinct—for it
can hardly be said to reaeh the dignity of a prin-
ciple-is constantly prompting the latter to assert,
as far as he is able, his independence of outward
help, to accept no gift without rendering some
equivalent, and to feel himself humiliated, in
some sort, by an obligation that he cannot re-
quite. Nor is this feeling confined to men of
strict probity. It is found, sometimes in an
abnormal degree, among those who live by
fleecing society generally, to whom post-nuptial
settlements and compositions of half-a-crown in
the pound are familiar expedients, and in whose
moral pharmacy a certificate of discharge counts
as a sovereign salve for a cracked reputation.
They see no inconsistency in this. To them the
business of money-making is an encounter of wits,
in which the victor claims the spoils as a tribute
to his superior keenness. The common herd, in
short, even in their mo?t rapacious mood,
view the receipt of alms as derogatory to
their manhood. No such unreasonable prejudice
is found in the priestly caste. Whether the habit
of self-effacement and continuous brooding over
the hopeless state of mankind in general is un*
favourable to perfect manliness, as evidenced in
the 00-existence of certain feminine attributes
which have caused the unregenerate to class
priests and parsons as the “ epicene gender,” or
whether the traditional practice of begging for
‘‘charitable objects’’-always remembering that
“ charity begins at home’’—engenders what may
be termed the “ mendicant diathesis” in the eccle-
siastical character, oertain it is that very few of
that order disdain evea the smallest contribu-
tions, whether in money or in kind, from anybody
whose liberality takes that particular form.
* * *
It has, through long usage, become generally
understood that in the matter of giving and re-
ceiving at least, the unwritten code to which lay
society conforms, has no application to minis-
ters of religion. They will be regarded
as above or beneath it, accordingly as people’s
estimate of “ the cloth ” is high or low,
but in this both the elect and the scoffers are
agreed, that loDg conformity to current usage
virtually disfranchises the clergy from the privi-
lege claimed by every self-respecting man, that of
resenting the sort of compulsory patronage that
is implied in unasked favours. If this be doubted,
let the “rector” of a country parish dare to
politely decline the side of (probably unmarket-
able) bacon, that is sent round with Mrs. Church-
warden Hodge’s ‘best respecks:” and see what
will thence ensue. Or let the spiritual ruler of a
fashionable city congregation, who pride them-
selves on appearances, but venture on the faintest
protest against the movement that has been set on
foot for presenting him with the orthodox buggy
and pair that are destined to eat him cut of
house and home, and then, hazard a gue-s how
long he will retain the esteem of bis flock. It
must be this habit of clerioal submission to the
unreasoning impulse that prompts men to do
something that shall make them “feel good,”
whether the deed be really beneficial or otherwise;
this willingness on the part of clergymen to offer
themselves up as villa corpora on the dissecting
table of experimental munificence, that must, we
think.be regarded as the primary source of the
testimonial plague. There is good circumstantial
authority for concluding that among the colonial
clergy of every denomination the professional re-
pute, if not the actual gain accruing from fare-
well presentations, is as confidently reckoned on
as if it had been the subject of previous stipula-
tion. And when the salt of the earth are thus
yielding, and permit their flocks to turn what, if
defensible at all, ought to be a strict business
transaction, and conducted in corresponding
privacy, into an occasion for offensive self-glorifi-
oation and mutual baek-scratohing, can we wonder
if the small fry of bank clerks, civil servants,
third-rate politicians, club and lodge secretaries,
and the like, follow suit ? Where the path has
been so clearly marked by holy men and their ad-
mirers, who shall blame the unregenerate cit, to
whom notoriety is as the breath of life, if he en-
deavour to copy so illustrious an example ?
AUSTRALIANA.
At Melbourne, the leases of about 25,000
acres in the Kimoerley district have been sold at
an average of Is. 6d. per acre. This little agrarian
game explains why the rush was first originated.
If the valuable deposits of brass and alluvial lies
had never been discovered, it would have been
as difficult to dispose of the land as if it had been
situated in Thingumbob Creek, in the middle of
the great African desert.... New Zealand papers
are full of J. A. Frouie, and J. A.Froudeis “full’
of the N.Z. papers, too. ..A London sporting writer
describes South Australia as a “priest-ridden,
Salvation Armyised, canting, snivelling colony.”
He seems to be pretty near right The
N.S.W. “big egg” season is now in full blast.
The latest “ was laid at Liverpool by a hen belong-
ing to Mr. M’Burney. It measured 6}4 inches
longitudinally, and turned the soalc at a quarter of
a pound.”....The Wallsend (N.S.W.) debating club
have decided against opening public reading
rooms on Sundays. We suppose they sleep from
Saturday till Monday. In any case we are certain
they don’t pray all the time on the Sabbath....
England has just “established a protectorate”
over the Ellice (South Sea) Islands. Some years
ago two Peruvian slavers depopu’at. d two of the
Ellice group by stealing over 100 of these simple
natives and carrying them to work to their
lives’ end on the Gbinoha Island guano de-
posits. Only two ever returned to their homes....
Dr. Henry, late president of the Victorian branch
of the British Medical Association, states that
where patients are treated in the open air “the
recoveries are astonishingly rapid.”....The most
popular N.S.W. amusements just now seem to be
defrauding the revenue and murdering your wife,
• .The Armidale Chronicle is of opinion that
the Bydneyites will get up an illuminated addrefes
and a purse of sovereigns to the two men who
missed being flogged recently The Globe say*
that at the late “review” the “Sydney Lancers,
as usual, looked very well, but there was a dis.
potition on the part of some of them to put on a
lot of unnecessary ‘side.’” Also as usual
Robbing flower gardens is the direction whioh
crime is taking in Prahran (Vic.) In New South
Wale*, the whole oolony is robbed... .The Mudgee
Independent alludes to the New South Wales
prize murderer as Mr. Bertrand, G.M.G. “ Going
for More Gore,” we presume.. .The St. George’s
Standard (Queensland) has been printed on
a variety of different papers-note paper,
Chinese paper, andi coarse brown paper, on
account of the floods cutting off supplies
The very latest Kimberley (West Australian
Eldorado) writer states:-” Everybody that has
resided for any time in this climate has a dried-up
appearance, and goes about in a listless way, as if
hlsjlife were a burden to him.”....The fund in aid
of the survivors of the Ly-ee-Moon wreck amounts
to £5011...A leprous Kanaka has been oonfltfed
for some weeks In the Parramatta (N.S.W.)
Asylum, by mistake, of course. It is just possible
he has left a wholesale crop of disease behind him*
but we presume nobody Is to blame. Nobody ever
is to blame in N.B.W. When anything goes wrong
it is either “the will of the Loard,” or “tem-
porary insanity.”.... The retirement of Chief Jus-
tice Stawell, of Victoria, loads that oolony with a
pension of £5l per week. It’s good to be a lawyer.
... 168 diamonds, weighing 298 oarats, have just
been washed from six loads of dirt at Inverell,
ls said that the squatters in some
parts of N.B.W. have docked the wool-pressers
3% per cent., in order to make up for the half-
crown which they were unable to take from the
shearers H. H. Warner and Co. mailed 200 000
pamphlets from their Melbourne branch last week.
As the postage came to £BOO it would need very
few more such consignments to work a Safe Our*
of postal shortages.
Captain Beeston reports a payable gold-
field on the Segama river, Borneo. “ The gold in
coarse and distributed in the bed and banks, but
the ground can only be properly worked in dry
weather and at low water. No reefs have been
discovered.” Ten years ago, we met, at Cook-
town, Charley O Brien and his big dog, who had
just returned from Borneo. Charley reported
wonderful things in alluvial, and he knew as much
about gold as the gallant captain. And yet during
those ten years there has been no rush.
Mrs. Emily Vincent, late of Hotham
(Melb), appears to have been a humourist in her
quiet way. She took a piece of meat to a chemist,
and asked him to put three grains of strychnine
on it ‘for a cat.” ’Twasa somewhat significant
request, but the chemist innocently complied. He
put the strychniae on the pieoe of meat, and
labelled it “ Poison for a Cat,” Mrs. Vincent
skipped off home with her prize, and ate it. Ex-
cept that it is unkind to ent jokes at the expense
of dear departeds, we should say that Mrs. V. was
the “cat.”
HOME TESTIMONY.
CERTAIN TO DERIVE GREAT BENEFIT.
457 Crown Btreet, Surry Hills, 11th March, 1886.
“I have used Warner’s Safe Cure and Pills
for Kidney diseases, and have great pleasure In
stating I have derived great benefit.”
S. R. BANKS.
THE PRO SESSION USE NOTHNIG ELSE.
Victoria Theatre, Parramatta, April 9th,
1886 —* H. H. Warner and Co.—Gentlemen.—ln
justice to you and for the sake of my feilow-men
who may be suffering as I once dim, I take this
opp ortunity of recommending Wakner s SAFE
Cure. Fi r nearly five years I suffered excru-
ciating ains in the back and loins. During the
greater part of that time I scarcely knew what it
was to have a gOod night’s rest, and on several
occasions while performing in California, had to
obtain the services of others to take my piaoe. I
consulted the best doctors in Ban Francisco and
Sydney without avail, until a friend advised me
to try Warner's Safe Cure. After taking the
second bottle, a complete change took plaob, and
lam now quite well. You may make use of this
in any way you think fit; I would not allow you
to'do so but for the benefit of others.
“FRED. MEREDITH.”
EARNESTLY RECOMMENDS "SAFE CURE.”
Victoria House. Church-street, Parra-
matta. 9th March, 1866 —“ I have taken Warner’s
safe Cure, and derived great benefit therefrom.
I earnestly recommend any one suffering from
disorders of Liver and Kidneys to try it.
“ALFRED MASON.”
WILL RECOMMEND IT TO ALL SUFFERERS.
Ermington (on Parramatta River), near
Sydney, 16ch March, lBB6 —Feelingsadly depressed
and unable to get about, 1 saw a doctor. He told
me I was suffering from Bright’s disease of the
kidneys. I had terrible pains up the back and
spine, attended.with headaches, and my legs and
ancles were much swollen and broken out in many
places; my eyes were also much inflamed. I was
advised to try Warners Safe Cure. I did so,
and from the first bottle 1 took began to improve,
and will recommend it to ali suffering from Liver
and Kidney diseases.
ANN WILLIS.
IT CURES PALPITA iION OF THE HEART.
“Stony Creek, Lane Cove, Sydney, NS.W„
18tn March, 1886.—“ I nave been a sufferer for the
last eighteen years, and have seen many doctors
without their being able to agree as to my com-
plaint. One said I had had sunstroke, and treated
me accordingly. I was tnen advised to go to the
Sydney Infirmary, but after a few weeks’ trial
left, feeling very little better. I suffered from
pains in the back and spine, with dreadful head-
aches and palpitation of the heart. My urine was
not natural, being muddy. I have not been able
to work, and indeed scarcely able to stand, for tna
past seven years. I was induced to try Warnhr’S
Safe Cure and 8a fb Piles, and have taken three
dozen bottles. I do not grudge it, as I am satisfied.
No one need suffer who will persevere with
Warner's Safe Remedies. After taking three
bottles, my palpitation, disappeared, and has not
returned.
GEORGE MUDIB,


H 1 A T B » SOTAL.
T > • * 1 *_i
InxiAUf son, Gajucbb and 1
wjluuuukbOlT, Gabiwb and Musgbotb, Managers.
Tirumru- Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager. Mr. W. Seagrave.
FAKE WELL PERFORMANCES.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
Of the ORIGINAL and ONLY AUTHORISED
DRAMATISATION of
MARCUS CLARKE S
great Australian work, adapted by
GEORGE LEITCH,
HIB NATURAL LIFE,
by arrangement with Messrs. M’Mahon and Leitch.
Prices as usual: 5i., 35., Is.
Tiekets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at Theatre daily, from 10
to 6. Telephone No. 114.
N’
a w
OPERA
HOUSE.
Eewees Messrs. E. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, barner, and Muegrove.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, AUGUST 26,
Will be repeated
the Farcical Comedy.
THE GREAT DIVORCE CASE.
The intitlal production of this Comedy was
HIS EXCELLENCY^THE GOVERNOR, LADY
CARRINGTON, and BUI CE, .
who were pleased to express their approval of and
delight with the performance.
In preparation, PINK DOMINOES.
Assistant Stsge Manager-Mr. Patterson.
Business Manager for W., G , and M.—Mr. w.
Hughes.
BOYAL STANDARD THEATRE,
Castlereaqh-street,
Between Liverpool and BathuMt streeta.
T f . J3CCO Mr. Frank Smitb.
»■—UWGFd EVERY
Important preduotlon of the London, New York,
and Paris success, entitled
THE LYONS COURIER.
Mr. DAMPIEK
In the
DUAL CHARACTERS
JOSEPH LBSURQUE3 and DUBOBC,
with a Great Combination Cast.
The next production, THE SINS OF THE CITY.
G
A I 1
Leasee ..
Sub-Lessee
T Y
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon
Mr. John F. Sheridan,
NAP. NAP.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
DON’T MISS IT.
SATURDAY, August 28,
FARLEY’S ENGLISH OPERA TROUPE
in CARMEN.
H. J. SAMUELL, Manager.
N
EW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereagh-street.
PARLEY’S ENGLISH OPERA,
FARLEY’S ENGLISH OPERA,
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING.
&randduchess a gs
GRAND DUCHE iS,
TO-NIGHT* TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT.
The GRAND DtJCHESS was a most decided suc-
cess on Saturday evening, and will be repeated
dtirlng the week every evening, at 8 p.m.
The Original Australian
GENERAL BOOM .. Mr. FARLEY.
Supported by a full and complete cast.
Powerful and Efficient Orchestra.
Selected Chorus.
Conductor
Leader
Mods. Leon Caron
Mons. De Willimoff.
Plano kindly supplied by BEALE and CO.
Prices, 3s.. 25., aud Is. Plan of reserved
(Bs.) seats at A. Huenerbeln and Corbett s, George-
street.
FRANK STUART,
Business Manager.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
“"Lessee and Proprietor .. P. B. Hiscocks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
746. NIGHTS. 746
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELB.
in oonlunotion with the RAYNOR BROTHERS.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS of the
RAYNOR BROTHERS,
the Eoeentrie Comedians and Musical Artistes,
in their FIRST CHANGE.
I Beats at Nicholson’s, oor. King & Geo. sts.
mHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
I George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Prank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
THE MATTHEWS BROTHERS
in their
LAST WEEK.
Come and see them
Come and see our Circle of Ladies and Gentlemen
Come and see our New Programme.
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orohestra chairs, Zb; stalls, Is:
balcony, 6d.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7.30 o’clook.
L YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch.
WILL SHORTLY RE APPEAR in SYDNEY.
Eftsoons they heard a most melodious sound,
Of all that might delight a dainty ear,
Such as at once might not on living ground,
Save in this Paradise be heard elsewhere;
Right hand it was for might which did it bear
To rave what manner of music that might be,
For all that pleasing is to living ear
Was there concerted in one harmony.
- (Fairy Queen) Spencer.
T
HE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY,
and HERR YONDER MEHDEN.
FIRST ANNUAL TOUR OF AUSTRALIA.
IMMENSE SUCCESS EVERYWHERE.
Kiama, Frid., Sat., Mon., and Tues., 27, 28, 30, 31.
Broughton Creek, Wed. and Thurs., Sep. 1 and 2.
Nowra, Fri. and Sat., Sept 3 and 4.
Cambewarra, Milton to follow.
E. FAUST, Manager.
R. H. BERNARD, Agent.
SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL
EXHIBITION,
Under the distinguished patronage
of
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR
and
LADY CARRINGTON.
NOW OPEN TO THE PUBLIC DAILY,
at the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.,
and in the evening from 7 to 10.
THE EXHIBITION
comprises
Various kinds of Machinery in motion,
Ships' Models.
Eleetrical and t-c'.entiflc Appliances.
Drawings, Photographs, &o.
A FIRST-CLASS BAND IN ATTENDANCE.
Botany and Waterloo Trams stop at Gates.
Admission—Adults, Is. School children under 14
in charge of adults will be admitted free.
Catalogues may be purchased in the Building.
Refreshment Rooms under the supervision of the
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO.
GUSTAVE FISCHER.
Honorary Secretary.
T
BOUGHT
READING.
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival).
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUTTERED THOUGHTS.
Western Tour.—Return Visit.
FORBE3 Bhortiy A . . , „
Cudal, Orange, Wellington, &c., to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
, and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet;” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
“Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
& OPERA HOUSE; SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“A RING OF IRON.”
THEATRE ROYAL,
Rockhampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
spen to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
Horatio Gilbert Parker
(OF CANADA),
THE EMINENT POET. LITTERATEUR, and
SHAKESPEAREAN RECITER,
give a aeries of popular Friday Even-
RECITALS AND LECTURES,
in the elegant Hall of the Y.M.C.A.,
corner Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney,
beginning
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 13,
and for three succeeding Friday evenings,
as follows
Friday Evening, August 30,
JULIUS CASPAR.
Friday Evening, August 3T,
LECrURE : HUMOURISrS OF AMERICA.
Friday Evening, September 3,
OTHELLO or HAMLET.
Box plan and tickets at Palng’s, Gcorge-street.
Reserved Seat Tickets for the course, 10j.
Single Tickets, 3j. and 3s.
R.
M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. Prom R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to h care.
JQIGHT-HOURS DEMONSTRATION.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF SPORTS
will be held at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S SHOW GROUND,
Moore Park,
MONDAY, October, 4th, 1886,
No. 1. Maiden Race, 100 yards, all comers who
have never won an advertised prize First prize
£6 sj. and trophy, second £3 and trophy, third £i
and trophy. Entrance 3s.
No. 2. Apprentices’ Handicap Flat Race, 124
yards, for apprentices working at any eight hours
trade represented on the Eight Hours Demon-
stration Committee. Winners of first prize at any
previous Eight Hours Demonstration not eligible
to enter. First prize £5 6s. second silver watch
and chain, third suit of olothes. Entrance Is.
Winners of divisions only to run off in final.
No. 3.
THE DEMONSTRATION SHEFFIELD
HANDICAP,
150 yards, open to all oomers. First prize £3O and
a gold medal, second £lO, third £6, fourth £4
Entrance ss. Winners of divisions only to run off
in final.
No. 4. Steve Punch's Eight Hour Trophy Handi-
cip Flat Race, 150 yards. For members of Societies
represented on the Eight Hours Demonstration
Committee, and who hive been financial on their
Society’s books three months previous to demon-
stration of 1886. First prize £lO 10i. and gold
medal, second £5 ss. third £2 3s. Entrance 2s. 6d.
No. 5. Handioap Hurdle Race, over five hurdles.
First prize £lO and trophy, second £4 and trophy,
third £1 and trophy. Entrance 2s. 61.
No. 6. Eight Hours Bociety Men's Handicap, 45
and over, 150 yards. Conditions tame as Eight
Hours trophy. First prize £4 gold medal, second
salt of clothes made to order, third a trophy.
Entrance 3s. 61.
No. 7. Three Miles Walking Handioap. First
prize £2O and gold medal, second £5 and trophy,
third £2 and trophy. Entrance ss.
No. 8 Quarter-mile Handicap Flat Race. First
prize £lO and trophy, second £4 and trophy, third
£1 and trophy. Entrance 2s. 6d.
No. 9. Three Miles Bicycle Handicap Race, open
to all comers. Five starters or no race. First
prize £lO, second £4, third £l. Entrance ss.
No. 10. Half-mile Handicap Flat Racs. First
prize £lO and trophy, seoond £4 and trophy, third
£1 and trophy. Entrance 2s 6d.
No. 11. Running Hop. Step, and a Jump. First
prize £4, second a trophy, third a trophy, Entrance
3i.
No. 12. Handicap Quoit Match, 10 yards. 21 up,
quoits not to exceed BJ4'm in diameter. First prize
£3 and trophy, second £llO j. third 10j. Entrance
3s. 6d.
Entries close September 13th, committee rooms.
Punch’s Swan-with-Two-Necks, George and Park
streets, where forms can b® had on application.
GEO. LONG, Chairman.
J. R. TALBOT, Treasurer.
JAS. PAXTON, Sports Secretary.
GEO. MITCHELL, Gen. Secretary.
Agricultural society of new south
wales.
GREAT METROPOLITAN EXHIBITION.
MOORE PARK.
WEDNESDAY to SATURDAY, Ist to 4th SEPT.
JUDGING DAY— WEDNESDAY, l»t SEPT.
GRAND OPENING CEREMONIAL
on
THURSDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER.
His Excellency the Governor,
The Right Hon. Baron CARRINGTON, accom-
panied by Lady CARRINGTON and Suite,
attended by a
GUARD of HONOR
will formally
OPEN the EXHIBITION at MIDDAY on
THURSDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER.
HiJ Excellency will be reoeivcd on the ground and
escorted to the Pavilion by the Council of the
Society, Subscribers, and Exhibitors.
The splendid condition of the Grounds, and the
numerous carefully planned Improvements in
every Bectlon of the Exhibition appointments, are
oaloulated both to enhance the interests of ex-
hibitors and to secure the comfort of visitors. To
ladies especially, the new y-ereote d Pavilion can-
not fall to be most acceptable; whilst every care
has been given to the important aids to oomfort.
REFRESHMENT and WAITING ROOMS.
The oitalogue, now in course of compilation,
discloses a really grand collection of Blood, Trott-
ing, Steeplechase, Light and Heavy Draughts,
Buggy and other Harness Horses; Carriage pain
and four-ic-hand teams, and Ponies; Cattle and
Sheep from the studs of the most famous breeders,
alsoPlgs, Poultry, and Dogs in rich variety. Wines,
Farm and Dairy Produce, and Agricultural
Products are also well represented.
The display of Machinery and Implements
promises to te unique, including as it will the
newest and latest Inventions appertaining to
agricultural labour-saving appliances, from Great
Britain, America, and the continent.
A grand array of Carriages and other vehicles
will enable those interested to observe the pro-
gress made in the development of this industry.
DAILY GRAND PARADES
of
HORSE 3 and CATTLE
in the RINGS.
THE POPULAR JUMPING CONTRBT
for the Tribune Hunters’ Prlz a of £125, brings
together the grand field of 30 of the most renowned
hunters.
The Distance Handloap Trot for a puree of 100
so vs. has attraotel all the blue blood amongst
trotters. Th'sisanew addition to the Society’s
programme, to meet one of the most popular
tastes of the day,
Another attractive feature will be the oom-
petition for the Highest Jumper, e rize, a special
prize given to encourage excellence in jumping,
both in horse and rider.
The exhibition of Lady riders must prove a
pleasant spectacle, as some score of entries will
compete for the valuable Special Prlz9 and
Society’s blue ribbon under this head.
The Brys’ Pony Prlz as bring out a large number
of competitors and can scarcely fail to excite
general interest.
Special Tram Service to the entrance gates every
few minutes each way; fare 31.
The Exhibition opens at 11 and elosesats.3oeaoh
day.
Admission 1?, children 64, except oa j udging d iy,
Wednesday, when the admission will b? 3i 64, and
la for children.
Subscribers—Ladles or Gentlemen-by paying
£1 la. become members, and have risht of entree
every day.
F. WEBSTER,
Secretary,
Office—Tatteraall’s-buildings,
Hunter-street, Sydney.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely
furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
For torms-jjApply,
THE'SECRETARY, School of Arts.
all the most
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
BAM millQL
27 YORK STREET,
’lTDtnTj*
SFIGLtLLY IMFOBTXB TQM OUT OB OOUHTBY USB,
THB OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
l
SfSilSi?
tsyaßßgaajgUSiW
STERLING 'QUALITY,
tAI
LOWBBT PRICES.
unomt b
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hf IYIBT YKHICLI GtfAEJ NTI tP


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TfIBA'SBB Royal—" HU Natural Life ” p. 8.
Gaiety Theatre— “ Nan” „
New Opera House—“ The Great Divorce
Case „
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe „
Royal Standard Theatre—" The Lyons
Courier” „
Academy op Music.—Federal Minstrels
New Masonic Hall—Farley’s Opera C 0.... „
About 8 o’clock on Saturday evening a
graceful figure, surmounted by a refined and In-
tellectual countenance, might have been seen
plunging through the eager multitude at the
oircle entrance of Sydney Royal Standard. The
figure was uS, the multitude was the other man.
One or two more came in later, but still the dreas-
circle did not present a very animated appear-
ance. “ The Lyons Courier,” however, seemed
highly acceptable to the crowd beneath. The
whole sensation consists of a murder—the most
stupid murder ever yet committed, but the crime
is delicately shaded off with beer, and the lighter
touches are filled in by a portly infuriated demon,
in the preliminary stage of snakes, smashing two
chairs and a table, and kicking a paoking-case Into
matchwood. The needful mystery is brought
about through the resemblance between the
demon with the snakes and a saint of considerable
corpulency, and It is not till the last act that the
saint gets uppermost. For our own part we
have grown so tired of poetic justice that
we would much rather have had the good
man hanged. Of course the stout fiend
might have been killed off afterwards, but even
here a little novelty would have been agreeable.
We would have liked, for instance, to see that
beer-soaked criminal standing on the balcony
watching his victim's execution, and then, while
a grin of demoniac glee overspread his counte-
nance, a two-yard kangaroo might have come in,
and crossing the room at the full hop, have dis-
embowelled him so suddenly, that he would have
kept on smiling even after having got the " Happy
Despatch."
♦ * *
The story commences with a red-headed
horsey man, and a rusty black froggy individual
with thin legs, waiting for someone to come and
explain everything. A depraved dude joins
them, and is followed by a useles* old fogey, who
seems to have been butted into the drama, so that
another man may tell him that he wishes he could
lend him a horse. A happy man comes next, with
his daughter and future son-in-law, and the old
fogey explains distinctly that he has sold his horse.
Then a drunken ruffian rolls in, and a woman
goes down on her knee-pan and calls for ven-
geance on her betrayer, who calmly swallows glass
after glass of brandy, and uses the thin man
as a slop-basin. The woman says a time
will come; the ruffian says he don’t care if it
does, ana we pass on to a soene where a white-
headed individual is keeping a pub. His son
comes along on a borrowed horse, leaves some
money on the table, and then makes an effort to
walk round the corner in the shortest time on
reoord. Next a party of assassins appear, and
after liquoring up they murder a courier and
embezzle 75,000 francß. The gaffer of the gang after-
wards proceeds to search the pookets of the not-
lost-but-gone-before, and while so doing the white
headed man comes in and is *hot. He falls yelling
"My son,” which is, of course, a mistake in
identity, and the murderer responds with a wild
hyena laugh, and finds tuppence on the corpse.
At this point the moon goes mad and throws a blue
light on the scene which makes the landscape
resemble rotten cheese, while the bad man under
the same influence appears to be overgrown w.th
furgus.
* ■ *
The third. act is filled with cursing, but the
old man wjfh the pub. curses the loudest. Three
criminals s& arrested, and the saint with the bulgy
stomach is also run in by mistake. Then there is
more bad language, and the party of four are
scruffed off to gaol by a French polioeman with red
mgs, and the atmosphere is filled with wailiDg.
The ruffian goes on an atrocious drunk, and the
woman who said the time would come resolves to
save the innocent victim. There is a burglary
committed about this time, and somebody stabs
somebody else, but at length we meet the dude
and the horsey man going to the scaffold, and
showing a remorseful tendenoy to flop at the last
moment. Their leader hires a room to watch the
execution, and perpetrates a terrific shivoo amid
the furniture, throwing a table at the head of his
accomplice and playfully knocking down that in-
dividual and sitting on him. Then suddenly the
heavens and the earth are rent asunder; the room
is filled with policemen and agony; twenty people
yell at once; the criminal kicks two men in the
wind simultaneously and knocks down two more,
but is squashed at last, and the portly saint smiles
in the doorway while the sinner is cut off like the
grass which perisheth.
Death shied a cold potato at him,
And he slept.
* * *
Mr. Dampier makes a good figure in the
double part of Dubose, the villain, and Lesurques,
tte well-developed saint, but his work is very
heavy, especially in the last act. He stands on the
balcony in his capacity as a drunken flend and
watches himself in his other oapaoity mounting
the scaffold, and then he howls and shakes his fist
at himself, and wants to see himself guillotined.
But a movement in the crowd—a general rush,
and a burst of execration, tell him that he is to be
released and himself arrested instead. He attempts
to escape, but is overpowered, and then he comes
in smiling, and standing in the doorway looks
scornfully at himself pinned down on the floor,
and thanks Heaven for his escape, while he kicks
and yells in his frantic endeavours to get free and
fly at his own throat. We have only onoeseen
Mr. Dampier’s effort outdone, and that was by a
gentleman who filled three parts at once, and after
fighting with himself all over the stage, he rushed
in and separated himself, and finally kicked him-
self out. Mr. Holloway, as a white-headed man
who sells grog, is very good; so is Mr. Pompey
—we mean Mr. Casiar—who plays the magistrate,
white Fouinard the philosopher shows consider-
able talent in his legs. In conclusion, we can only
£f/feM r . Dampier once more to have Dubose
killed by a kangaroo. We want to see some novelty
for once, and “ The Lyons Courier,” though well
Played, is merely a murdered hash, or rather a
hash of murder, and, like many others, we are
growing weary of stage slaughter.
** * »
“ The Great Divorce Bill ” at Sydney
Opera House is another essay on the well-worn
subject of mothers in law, and seems to have
been written for the purpose of showing what
i°7» e i7 woman may come to when she gets to be
middle-aged and strong-minded, and Jives, too,
exclusively on a diet of vinegar. O’Gorman s
parent-in-law is obtrusive all through the piece,
ana she is “that aggrawatin’she would dißturb
the d*ath-bed of a hoyster,” white Pllkie’s rela-
nwr’.i. n 9 t actually visible, casts a shadow
nke that of a vicious cow-eleohant over the scene.
Moreover, the wife’s mother is absolutely übiqui-
tous. bhe has a countenance like a post-office
carving, and when she has made up h»r mind to
db particularly disagreeable she shuts her mouth
with a snap as if she held a Hebrew mortgage
?,7® r °w? stomach and was foreclosing on tne
Consequently, her unluckly, down-
trodden worm-in-law spends most of his time try-
hedge this rampant female, white his friend
ruiKie, wno is a mild, milk-and-water, please-kiok-
oQnoffiPrwTt gentleman, with a mouth like a
capital O, shakes in his shoes at the sight of
*2 this ' there is a housekeeper who
W nf, he v r ,. bacfe 011 the slightest provocation, and
g ® «UBty, smudgy vestal, whose oc-
inpPlrBtions m*»ke her employer wish he
rows iafnn + orte ’ a ?, d that gentleman’s jug of sor-
rows is lull to overflowing.
»*■ £° wonder, then, that O’Gorman re-
resnivAt^« H P his mother-squashed friend Pilkie
the k7eki 0 n? D »2- y ?£ me of tJ 10 as well as
i e kicks of this life, and decide to dine out, Ou
the tame day O’Gorman gets his first client, being
employed by the jealous Lady Hamerton to get m
a divorce case against her husband who flirts with
Mrs. Graham In a reprehensible manner, and under
the Inspiriting influences of dissipation and pros-
perity the pair of friends get into a joyous condi-
tion and follow two ladies home to their hotel.
Here the unoonsoious lawyer flirts with Mrs.
Graham herself, while his own detective, em-
ployed to watoh that lady and sir Franois Hamer-
ton, shadows hina, and industriously gets up a case
against his employer. Sir Franois also arrives,
and the despairing O’Gorman passe* himself off as
a doctor, and prescribes a seton and a tourniquet
to be taken Infernally twiae a day, while Pilkie, In
the character of a hemceopathio practitioner,
dodders about in a profuse perspiration, and pins
his shifting faith to''globules.” But more visitors
arrive, and the lawyer, already heartily weary of
his enjoyment, has to retreat Into Mrs. Graham’s
dressing-room, where above the busz of conversa-
tion can be heard a fearful din as he engages in
single combat with that lady’s lap-dog. Provi-
denoe, which watohes over the sick, lasse, and
lazy, brings him off victorious, and he next
appears as a good subject for Pasteur,
arrayed In the ghastly mockery of what was once
a dress ooat, and carrying a stiffened carcase, on
whioh he returns a verdict of "justifiable dogi-
olde. Then his crowning misfortune falls upon
him. He has taken off his rent garment, and laid
It reverently on a sofa, when his peppery house*
keeper, who has been shadowlDg him all the even-
ing, embezzles the derelict swallow-tail, and
carries It off to his mother-in-law.
* * *
Amid these accumulated sorrows, O’Gor-
man gives up his oase. He dare not face his own
detective, who has got up a mass of evidence
against him; neither can he encounter Sir Franois,
who wishes to know the effeot of a tourniquet
taken in a glass of water twice a day; and he
spends the morning in telling his friends of the
preceding night that he is 111 with bronchitis of
the brain, or some suoh ailment, and is present In
his medical capacity, to attend on himself. Ulti-
mately, however, he brings about a reconciliation
between Lady Hamerton and her husband, stand-
ing uneasily on oae leg the while, and gets a
friend, with unsteady joints, to marry his mother-
in-law, after which he embraces his wife and the
slavey In an ecstasy of joy, and the curtain falls
amid a roar of laughter.
• * a
The piece depends entirely for its success
on Mr. St. Maur, who takes the part of O’Gorman,
and that gentleman’s ability as a comedian would
make even a corpse Interesting. If a piece could
be written in which he would appear as a dead
body and lie In the middle of the stage through
three acts, we are inclined to fancy he would
create some genuine amusement o ut of the grad ual
process of stiffening. Mr. Alfred Maltby appears
S r .I® first time m Australia In the character of
Weathersley Grandison, and makes a success out
of that limp, knock-kneed, sleepy-headed indi-
vmual, while Miss Brooke, as the lawyer’s wife,
and Miss Annie Taylor, as that Frankenstein mon-
ster, O Gorman’s progenitor-in-rlaw, are both ex-
ceedingly good. Pilkie. whose ; name very appro-
priately rhymes with “ Milky,” Is played by Mr.
Redwood, who fills the bill well, and looks like a
South Australian hank apostle. The comedy in
the present hands is intensely amusing, though If
badly played It would degenerate into a blank and
aimless farce.
*» * *
, lo other oiroumstanoes Leiteh’s version of
His Natural Life” would have eDjoyed a con-
siderable run at the Theatre Royal, Sydney. A
number of persons suddenly awoke to the fact
that Marcus Clarke's novel abounds in Interest.
Consequently, both author and work were all at
°o° e shot Into the face of the public with deter-
mined persistency. To listen to the clamour at
theatre doors and to read the harangues In news-
papers a stranger would supnose that Marcus died
just a few weeks ago, and that the city population
was In the first agony of bereavement, clothed in
the gloom of newly-bought sables and crape. It
would startle him to hear that the man everybody
was talking about had wasted and worn out his
life many years ago; rejected, defected, an intel-
lectual Ishmae], hut weak-armed and weak-willed,
because Poverty, the long-beaked vulture of
civilisation, sat daily pecking at him. The stranger
would likely call It characteristic that the rssur-
reotlon of the man at the present time has been
wholly due to the enterprise of a couple of show-
men.
* * *
Mr. George Darrell will suoeeed Marous
Clarke. This also is characteristic. New South
Wales Is unmistakably In the show age. To the
present public the faculty which perceives the
Incongruous Is wanting. That lack is discovered
In the career of all peoples. The mind springs
Into huge growth In some directions, leaving
others undeveloped. The result is that unrelated
things are plaoed together without any sense of
difference or contrast. By the way, down in Mel*
bourne, at the present time, Joe Brown is running
Bmelie Melville in opera-bouffe, and simultane-
ously a panorama of the N.Z, volcanic eruptions.
That shows a son of the time. But unconscious-
ness of the difference between the real and the
seeming-real, the good and the seeming-good, the
fact and the show-fact, the thing and the display-
thing, leads by a steep and slippery gradient to
national lunacy.
* * »
Mr. Darrell’s play has for its hero an Irish
priest. Next to a stick of dynamite, an Irish priest
18 the dangerous thing for an actor to play
soggarth, too, will hear confessions.
Dion Bouoicault used to keep his soggarths drink-
ing whlaky-punch and christening babies. It will
be playing into the hands of Edith O Gorman to
set a sacredness on the auricular business. Bhe Is
sure to come out with a play in reply. But, after
f'll ® h .o uld „ n °t one aotor give an Inspirational
lift to another ? Nearly a year ago we enquired
whether It was Darrell or Dailey who originated
the Idea of a belligerent expedition. Strickland
we threw overboard. But Darrell told us that five
years ago he had written a drama In which the
sending away of an Australian contingent in a
dark hour of England’s need is a prominent fea-
ture. This throws light on the recently-announced
approche between Dailey and Darrell. The dreamer
of dramatic dreams and the hero of the glittering
goat-kilUng falchion meet. The Idealist and the
realist embrace. How long Is George Darrell to
be left untitled ?
** ® *
We made our best salaam before the
brand Duchess ” at the New Masonic Hail,
oycney, the other evening-, and nearly broke off
short at the waist in the effort to do proper
homage to that charming lady. As a rule, we do
not affect duchesses,, and the majority
we save seen have excited only the same degree
of reverence that we generally pay to a olothes-
anrss, but Miss Florence Seymour presented so
marked a contrast to the majority of over-fed
German aristocrats that we made this exception
In her favour. Her Highness of Gerolstein, too,
lu 8 !? and we remember with sympathy
that she has grown up without the foster mg care
or t“ a t stalwart msther with the fearfully low-
wbo 18 supposed to watch over the
slumbers of a royal babe and wake it with a smile
ora bootjack, ana then souse tne squalling ln-
° T f 9 old water and rub it dry with a
jack-towel. Instead of this fond parent she has
ceen reared by General Bo>m, a large, fat man,
wnose intellect hangs down In a paunchy condi-
tlon on each side of his bovine oouutt nance, and
by Baron Puck, a rummant animal of the cattie-
hiB brightest moments,
ought to go out like Nebuchadnezzar to grass, and
In his less intellectual Intervals does not know
enough to quality hios for being a helf*r. But
even under these depressing conditions the
Duchess is charming, and among a multitude of
duchesses we have seen few wnom we liked so
well as Miss Seymour.
* ♦ sfc
General Boom, played by Mr. Farley, was
py rur the best of the male characters, and the
huge medal which he wore on top of the
place where he had put the cold fowl at dinner-
time, excited general admiration. His singing
and acting were both admirable, and he infused a
vast amount of original stupidity into the part,
which, added to Boom’s original ox-beadedness,
made the buifcy veteran intensely amusing. His
army, about 14 strong, wore bulbous pants to
cover their martial ardour, and looked strikingly
like the famed Soudan Contingent. Mr. Harry
Power acted as Baron Pugk, and owed a good deal
te the excellent orchestra, though the latter cer-
tainly owed him nothing. We lost his best song,
thanks to an agricultural olod who sat near us,
and who kept making remarks about a badly-
greased cart-wheel, which seemed to prey on his
mind very much. He also talked about a frog
croaking in & swamp, and about a particularly
hoarse terrier which he keeps in his vegetable
garden to frighten away cats, a combination of
domestic details which, he seemed to think, had
some connection with the Baron’s operatio per-
formance. Mr. Walshe, as Fritz, sang in excellent
style and acted much oetterjthau usual; while Miss
St. John, in the part of Prince Paul, was almost
perfect, and looked the character admirably.
Baron Grog's make-up was one of the features of
tkc performance, his baronial countenance looking
iike the label of a whisky bottle; and Miss Lovell,
as Wanda, deserved a better part.
* * *
The gentleman who throws ill-directed
bouquets was again to the fore. On this occasion
he hibernated somewhere on the front seats,
and then waking up a moment too late, wildly dis-
charged his floral trophy at the scene which was
already down. Apparently, however, he was not
qualified even to hit a mountain with a brick,
ror, with the whole soene for a target, he only
succeeded in lauding on the muzzle of one of the
wind instruments in the orchestra, and drove
khout 12 inches of music down the performer's
throat. The Chinese must go, and this man must
go with them, for he threatens to become a public
nuisance. Lastly, the two supers who dodge
across the stage, perpetrated an outrage on
anatomy, for they wore their chest 3 behind, auc
were perfectly flat down the front. We would
like to dissect these men.
_*# * *
The Federal Minstrels, at Sydney Academy
are drawing good houses with another new pro-
gramme, the principle novelty being “ Phaiuo
Capitas, a series of shadow-piotures of well-
known characters, from Battenberg’a female boss-
in-law down to Habigle, of the N.B.W. Hass-embly
and the Jawbone of Paddington. Most of them
are exceedingly good likenesses, and several look
considerably more intelligent than they do in the
flesh, though Victoria, by the grace, &c., was
rather disappointing, the grace beiog too thin to
oast a reflection. “The Rivals” was better than
ever, and Raynor Brothers have introduced a
number of novelties, among them a duet between
a pair of bellows and a tin whistle which is a great
favourite with the audience. But we must really
pass on to the concluding farce, “Oh! that Parrot I
The performance was good enough but the very
name is too much for us, for we loath the whole
tribe of Israel-beaked songsters. We a'so have a
parrot, a saintly bird, imported from Adelaide,
which wails solemnly every five minut;s, “Let
us swindle and pray,and we can’t get rid of him.
We ones hired a game cat at 30j. a week to put a
head on the bird, but after 49 rounds, the ielina
was reduced to cat rags, and the cheerless fowl re-
sumed its perch, and snuffled out the first re-
corded variation on its usual doxology, saying
calmly, “Let us cuss.” Beaumont Read as the
lawyer, and Alf. Moynham as the launder or
washerwoman, or whatever he should be termed,
were very amusing, and the other performers
were good throughout. There was also a new
joke; we have forgotten the point of it. but we
are quite certain it had a point of some kind.
* * #
Various Yankee papers profess to believe
that “Wales” will accompany Mrs. Langtry on
her next trip through the States. This would be
good business for the Lily, but wo don’t think it
is likely to come off. If it did Bertie would not
be expected to take a hard in the show, but'hB
might just hang around enough to raise a suffi-
ciency of good advertising scandals, which Mrs.
Langtry knows how to work for all they are
worth.
«■ •$> «
The Equine Paradox is wandermg through
the Isles of the East. Bitavia was a mine of
wealth to the show, and good business was done
at Bamarang, Sourabaya, and Djoega. Makkassar
was next on the programme.
** * »
Admiral Tryon and suite have announoed
their intention of honouring with their presence
the performance of the “Grand Duchess,” by
Farley’s English Opera Company, at Sydney New
Masonic Hall, on Friday of this week.
H”!<*
TheMaorilanders seem to have “passed”
on Irish drama for the present. An Auckland
paper says;—“Let us have no more of it for a long
time. Let us have no more general utility people
squaring wildly up at the Irish brogue, flooring it
one moment, tumbling over it and damaging their
shins the next. Let the Sassenaoh oppressor take
a seat, and a truce for the time to Ihe treacherous
informer, the big-hearted priest, and the rosy-
cheeked son of the soil. I think we want a circus
now. Eitner a circus or an ancient Greek tragedy
with long intervals for refreshments.”
***
A London correspondent thus enthusiasti-
cally writes to us of Minnie Palmer, who will
shortly decorate thB Australian stage with her in-
spiring presence:—“She is certainly very pretty,
with tiny straight features, a clear, pure, com-
plexion, beautiful white teeth, and lustrous big
eyes. Oh, those eyes! Those nogel The hair (her
hair of oourse he means) is golden, the pose of the
head is exceedingly pretty, the figure is tiny and
dainty. ‘ My Sweetheart’ is, in fine, a bonne bouche,
and before she is permitted to appear in Sydney, I
would advise a police order for the muzzling of
mashers.” Our correspondent is a young man.
#**
A plebiscite of Truth’s subscribers assert
that W. G. Wills is the best living dramatist; Sims
is placed second, and Sardou third, the voting
being 41, 32, and 31. We should have been inclined
to give Sardou 100 votes, Wills, say, 50, and Sims
15, However, de gustibus, &c.
** * *
Rose Hersee, at latest, was singing in
“ Frivoli,” a poor specimen of comic opera, at
Drury Lane.
The Colorado Minstrels are now murdering
sleep at Auckland (N.Z.) and drawioggood houses.
It is reported they will shortly move to Sydney.
*****
Williamson, Garner, and Co. are at logger-
heads with the Melbourne Trades’ Council because
they have decided to fit the Princess Theatre with
English furniture, and the wily Joubert, who
ought long ago to have been in the perfesh, has
caused it to be announced that he is buying colo-
nial furniture for the Alexandra, because be finds
it cheaper. Boycotting is threatened, but the
triumvirate declare that they are prepared to sub-
mit figures in justification of their position.
** * *
The following characteristic note from Mr.
H. R. Harwood, dated Brisbane, lOrh Aug., has
until now been overlooked:—“ Dear Bulletin,—
The " Private Secretary” Company opened here
last evening to an enormous house, and the suc-
cess was most decided. Report enclosed from to-
day's Courier, which please notice in the earliest
issue of your everywhere-read journal. You will
perceive that your old and faithful servant hes
met with a most cordial reception on the occasion
of his first visit to Queensland during a career of
31 years on the stage of Australia, having been
launched in the port of Sydney on the 10th of June,
1855. That he may long be spared to enjoy the
good opinion of his many friends in N.B.W. ia the
hearty wish of— Yours truly, Henry R. Harwood.
** « *
Mr. H. Fleming takes a benefit on an early
date at the Sydney Theatre Royal. His wide popu-
larity will make a crowded house a reasonable
certainty.
Poor old Sam Emery, the comedian, had
many friends in Australia who will be glad to hear
that his daughter Winifred has made suoh rapid
strides in her profession that she is frequently
selected to under-study for Ellen Terry.... Mr. W.
J. Holloway is drawing good houses at Brisbane
with a play called “Hamlet.” The new
three-aet comedy which Coghlan nas writ-
ten for Mrs. Langtry was to have been pro-
duced in Paris a fortnight ago. It is doomed to
suooeed, for Mrs. L. wears five different dresses in
the role of an adventuress A prinoess in low
water assisting in nigger entertainments in Lon-
don, and earning a salary of 25j. per week. She is
the niece of C*tewayo, the Zulu king, who was de-
throne! by the British Government, and accord-
ingly has a rather larger claim on the country
than Bsttenburg Our old friend Joseph Jeffer-
son is said to be organising a company for old
English comedy for next season in the States.. ..
Erom a S.F. paper .—" Robert B. Mantell is going
to star next season, and Mils Eleanor Carey will
be hia leading lady. Eleanor Carey is the daughter
ol an English olergyman, born in Valparaiso. She
came here originally from Australia. She is a re-
markably pretty woman." Yes, they are all the
daughters of clergymen. Even Mrs. Langtry....
Another Murkan item:-“While Miss Jeffreys-
Lewis was playing in Los Angeles, she had to stop
the performance to request the bucolic audienoe
f o stop munohing peanuts, as' they disturbed the
players; and in Tombstone she gave a perform-
ance for the benefit of a fund for erecting a fenoe
around a graveyard. Elegiac episode I” Miss Lewis’
bad luck seem* to have followed her from Sydney.
...Rochefort has written a blood and thunder Irish
drama. ...That meek and unconsequential person,
the eldest son of Charles Dlokens, has started
readings from his father’s writings “Sister
Mary I Alice Dunning LtDgard has been testi-
monialized in the form of a gorgeous bracelet, by
n#r company, at Brighton, England.... And, finally,
a lot of much “soawndalised” snufflers are still kick-
ing up a row because the Lynch Bsilringers-im-
P' ou * P* r *ons who get a livi <g by the blasphemous
show sit—were lately permitted to assist at the
musioal services of a W.B.W. country church.
John Duffy, aged 9 years, smashed the
window of a store in Bightb-Avenue, New York
and was grabbing the plunder when oollared by ar
officer. He drew a pistol and fought savagely
but is no w in a State Protectory.
The veracious cable told us first that the
Chicago Irish Convention was “split into two
factions.” Afterwards the speeches were stated
to be ■’ violent;” and somehow it ultimately
isaked out that the meeting was harmonious and
tolerably unanimous.
Mr. W. C. Proctor, member for Armidale
in the New South Wales Assembly, is the reei-
p:ent of a writ for £503, served at the instance of
Mr. David Proudfoot, who claims that sum as the
penalty for Mr. Proctor’s attendance in the House
while he was, as alleged, under disability in oonse-
quence of the beneficial interest which he is said
to have held under a railway-contract.
Collins, thg bank-manager at Ballina, and
his charming wife, paid £44 for the privilege of
correcting and punishing a sorvant girl. Prom
the evidence given it transpired that the oooa-
sional pastime of this gentle couple was to be-
labour the girl with the broom-haidle and howl
her round the house by her flowing locks. Then
she was allowed to dress in fancy costume—a bed-
tick bodice and a bag-petticoat—and perform her
duty until the next matinee was announced. We
have not yet read that the gentleman has been
presented with the customary purse of sovereigns
and illuminated address, but that will probably be
done in the course of the month. He will most
likely be leaving Ballioa soon, and its leading
citizens will then have the desired oppertunity of
canonising—we mean Coonanising—hum.
The revelations made by Mr. Creed,
M.L.0., in the N.S.W. Council, regarding the
storage of war material at Barry’s Bay, are hardly
of a kind to reassure the public at a time like the
present when half-a-dczsn European potentates
seem ready at any moment to create a destructive
war. A struggle in which Britain requires to take
part would certainly involve these colonies in
strife, and being dragged into a quarrel from
which we could reap no profit, we would
also require, in all probability, to trust at
the outset to our own resources. And a
great portion of these resources, it appears*
are stored ia an old, stone-built, shingle-
roofed building at Berry’s Bay, protected only
by an open gate, and the customary handbill
on its front-door stating that no one is admitted
except on business. Por the sake of consistency
this notice should certainly be headed “ To Rus-
sians and other Foreign Enemies,” though it
is to be feared that au enemy on misohief
bent would hardly stay to read the intimation.
Mr. Creed says that he walked into the build-
ing without question or hindrance, and
found the live defenders to consist chiefly
of an obliging labourer, from whom he
gathered sufficient information to qualify him
to blow the colony's military stores to atoms, and
perhaps to wreck half Sydney as well. Inside
were open torpedoes and open cases; four tons of
gun-cotton was also in store, and the actual safe-
guards were nil. There were also 400 or 500 detona-
tors on the premises, which may one day assist to
send the whole bailding and its contents to king-
dom oome even without outside aid. The roof, too,
is rotten and inflammable, : the doors are feeble,
the fence is a sham, and the solitary guardian of
the place—when he is at home—lives some
50yds. away. Moreover, these ill-defended stores
are said to be deteriorating through sheer
carelessness, and may prove useless in time
of need. The' gun-cotton requires damping;
the armoured torpedo cable is not kept in water
so as to preserve it; and even at the best the war-
machines will probably break down on an emer-
gency for want of sufficient trained men to work
them. Duringthelast warsoare more than six weeks
were required before one line of defence was laid
down across a single channel In Port Jackson, and
at the same rate of progress months would pass
before the capital would be safe. Ultimately
Newcastle, Botany, and the Eastern Channel at
Sydney were left undefended, so that the fortifi-
cations were the weakest of shams after all. These
are a few of the points of Dr. Creed’s indictment,
and they are quite sufficient to show that some-
thing more than skeleton reviews and mock fights
are wanted to insure the public safety.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Seymour (Vio.) Expbess records in
its advertising columns the death of Mrs.
Muldoon, a looal resident, aged 70 years, and ap-
pends the following verse, which shows that tne
spirit of true poetry Is far from being dead in
Australia
A new Zealand paper is giving way to
considerable excitement beoause a cow backed a
farmer up Into the corner of a stable, and then
seized his hand in its teeth and ate it, and the
journalist describes the affair as “ a most singular
acoident.” For our own part, seeing the cow
committed the outrage deliberately, we fail to per-
oelve where the acoident comes in, and we are even
doubtful about the singularity of the occurrence.
If the man had backed the cow up into a corner
and then eaten the stable, the affair would have
presented some surprising features. The same
might have been said if the cow had backed the
man up and then eaten itself, or if the stable had
run them both into a corner and then devoured
the cow, or If the cow had driven the stablo into
an angle of the man and then chewed up both
Houses of Parliament. Or supposing the cow had
eaten the stable, and peaoefudy munched the
rafters, and the galvanized-iron roof, it might
have justified a little temporary alarm; or, again f
the animal might have eaten the man with its hind
leg instead of i‘s teeth, which would have been
also a departure from the customary routine; or,
further, the man might have eaten himself, and
the oow done likewise, and then both might have
gone out and eaten the horse. As the matter
stands, however, it is the very weakest kind of
sensation, and if the New Zsalanders can do no
better than this, they would do well to give up
cows and Journalism altogether.
The man who says that Heaven shoved
him into Parliament, seems to us to be as men-
daolous as a Chinese leper, and when he adds that
Divine Providenoe makes him stay there and draw
the screw, then we put all our money on the scaly
Mongol. Mr. Hobbs, of N.Z., oooasionally desig-
nated “Hosannah Hobbs,” when presiding recently
at a Methodist meeting, observed that the mem-<
Ii of the Assembly were a had lot, and then,
h tears and perspiration running down his
Idlike face, he said that “ he felt at times like a
out of water amongst them, and would not
re been there unless he realised it was the will
the Lord. He urged them to elect Christian and
; Godless men if they wanted good and pure
rs, and entreated them to pray more earnestly
> members of Parliament.” Hobbs, it will be
®, did not associate with the wretched sinners
the House of Baal, because he lusted after
> wages of sin—which, by-the-bye, in N.Z. are
t death, but £2lO per session-but because
yas “ the will of the Loard.” Yet the Assembly
nt on its perverted way and recked not of its
isannah Hobbs, and, in the beautiful words of
akespeare, “he felt like a fish out of water.”
hether Providence would have yelled at Hobbs
d told him to go into Parliament if there had
en no salary is doubtful, and it is also question-
le whether Hobbs would not have put ootton in
g ears and become deaf had he been asked to roll
> as an honorary Hobbs. But he Is there “ by the
ill of the Board,” and the only pity is, that he is
it at Adelaide Instead.
• * ♦
The Queen’s taste in literature is pretty
ell understood by this time. She degraded Ten-
don to the peerage, not beoause he was a poet,
it because be beslavered the German mediocrity
horn she conducted to the altar. She knighted
ie editor of the Morning Post in recognition of
8 gorgeous talents as a descriptive reporter of
ar daily walks and drives. Now Her Majesty has
scovered a most bea-u-tiful poem, “ She noddit
> me,” in the columns of an obscure Sootoh jour-
al. Her enthusiasm is easily accounted for. The
gem ” under notice is a four-verse ballad detail-
ig the drivelllngs of some other old lady to
'hom the Queen is supposed to have noddel.
[ere’s a chip off the gem
“ But I’ve aye been unlucky,
And the blinds were aye doon,
Till last week the time
O’ her veesit cam’ roon*.
I waved my bit apron
As brisk’s I could dee.
An’ the Queen lauohed fu’ kindly,
An’ noddit to mel”
yhen Victoria read that poem, she felt happier
han she had ever felt since poor Brown died. The
»athos lurking in the “ noddit ” (last line of each
rerse) went right to the royal heart. By request
if Her Majesty the name of the immortal bard was
iromptly communicated to her, and she sent him
omething handsome. Her blessing, or something
ike that, we believe. Yet The Bulletin has
mblished innumerable poems about the Queen
md other members of the Royal Family, without
sver getting one word of thanks
* * *
Poor old John Kennedy was taking a walk
up Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, when he was ob-
served to totter and fall. It was rather incon-
venient that John’s body should be stretched
icross the pathway, but save by a gentle kick or
two, the old man’s misdemeanour was not com-
mented upon. The orowds of people passing br
treated John with marked respect. In a
way, they walked round his body, occasionally
they jumped over it, but they were never, never
so unmannerly as to touch it. The rude band of
a policeman was the first to turn John Kennedy
over on his back, and then they discovered that
he was neither drunk nor in a fit. No; John had
merely been a corpse for two hours.
The professional humourists of all coun-
tries have, when short of matter, written a funny
story (it is much the same in all the languages we
are acquainted with) of a burglar breaking into
the house of an editor, and, being moved to
pity by the poverty he saw there, leaving a half-
orown on the washstand and going softly away
with a tear in his eye. Other versions have it that
the editor wakes up, and, discovering t r .e burglar,
greets him as his preserver, and borrows what
loose cash he hai about him to provide the family
breakfast. But we looked upon all these stories
as pleasant but improbable inventions up till now.
We were never able to picture to ourselves a
burglar so lacking in worldly knowledge and
savoirfaire as to waste his time in trying to rob a
pressman. Buch a burglar has, however, been
found. We copy the following paragraph from
the Melbourne Herald “ Messrs. Cameron,
Laing, and Co., of Flinders-lane, report a case of
store-breaking at their premises. During the
night of the 14th the burglars effected an entrance
to the place by bursting open the trap-door.
Everything was ransacked, but nothing has been
missed.” Nothing has been missed I We should
think not. Cameron, Laing, and Co. are gentle-
men who publish a supplement for the country
papers. The stock on their premises chiefly con-
sists of manuscript poems.
A too-ardent lover was Mr. Rowdon,
gentleman, of no-where-in-particular, England.
He conoelved a violent affection for the Hon.
Violet Lane-Fox, and, not having the honour of her
acquaintance, strove to acquire it by “ mashing ”
her whenever she took her walks abroad. Unable
to obtain any return for bis affection in this way,
he attended a garden-party given by Lord Salis-
bury, although uninvited, and climbed to the
apex of assuranee by asking his host for an intro-
duction to the Hon. Violet, whom he knew to be
present But the lady, seeing her tormentor
approach, erected a voluminous scowl upon her
aristocratic features and departed with muoa
haste. Foiled in this strategic effort, Mr. Rowd >n
precipitated a climax by inserting in the Morning
Post an announcement of his engagement with
Miss Fox, whereupon he was made to lojk ov ] r
the spikes and explain why he should not be ae-t
up for criminal libel. He will probably have to
go, and pay the penalty of having loved not wisely
but too well, what magnificent amatory poetry
he oould write ? Love is never so luminous in
verge as when it is aimless, hopeless, snd an ever-
lasting nuisance to all parties concerned.
“ The angel of death came to Taroomhe In June,
And knocked all the breath out of Bridget Mul-
doon.
Elbe had a hare lip and a squint in her eye,
But she’s gone to the Garden of Eden on high,
Where sweet little Innocent cherubs will soon
Plaoe a halo of glory round Bridget MuldooH.’
We fancy that Bridget, looking down from her
new quarters, will feel rather glad that she Is dea .
It might be disagreeable, for the moment, when the
angel of death hit her In the bellows, but it would
be worse to walk the earth and read her own
obituary. When Bridget’s unlettered trusting
friends fully realise the meaning of the verse,
however, we would not like to give mu oh for t io
safety of the “ lightsome, angular son of song
Who was paid to write the above elegy.
"Return of a South Australian Colonist."
London, auk. 17.—Mr. 8. Tomkinson, of South
Australis, will return to Adelaide by the P. and O.
Company's R.M.B. Valetta.”-Cablegram to S.M.
Herald.
Is it strange that we are happy, that the smile is In
our eye,
That we strike the gentle Jew’s-harp and per-
form upon the gong,
That we flourish on the trombone, while its subtle
strains supply
A musical accompaniment to bursts of j )yous
tong ?
Is it odd we are transported with delirium of bliss.?
That our heart wlthla our bosom teat tumul-
tuous refrain
To the message telegraphic from one continent to
this-
That “8. Tomkinson, of Adelaide, is coming
back again ?”
©h! will wild exoitement slay us ere his foot is on
the strand,
Shall we live to press hii “ flipper’’ when he
standeth on the quay,
Shall we be among the crowd who crush towel*
come him to land,
When the wanderer returneth from the regions
o'er the Bea ?
Away with care and sorrow, since a cablegram
oonveys
The marvellous intelligence that gives us such
concern I
A tranquil joy o'erspreads us, and in peace well
end our days,
For “ 8. Tomkinson, of Adelaide, announces his
return.”
And this is why we “ stiike up" in the very loudest
key
Our instruments of joy can raise, and sing in
tuneful voice s
A man returns from England who is not made
CM 0.,
The man we were in search of 1 Hallelujah 1
We rejoice 1
TO SIR SAUL SAMUEL.
Our gorgeous Agent-General and a party
of eminent colonial ohuokle-heads were enter
tained lately by Lord Brabazon at Bray. The
noble host referred in terms of touching (and no
doubt ironical) eloquence to the “assistance »
rendered by the Australian Contingent to the
mother country in her hour of need at the Soudan
81r Saul Samuel, in his reply, " declared that the
same assistance would be forthcoming to-morrow
should the necessity arise.” Humph I Give us
the war-drum:—
Saul Samuel! Saul Samuel!
Your’re in a bad, bad way,
When Lord Brabazon did cram you well
What did you up and say ?
That we’ll send an expedition
Any time it’s wanted! Pooh!
We’ll see you to perdition,
Sir Saul, before we do.
That speech of yours would damn you well
With men of sense, hut they
Will notice, Sir Saul Bamuel,
You gave it mouth at Bray!
John Kennedy lay In the broad public way,
Nobodr*troubled or oared;
It wasn’t their biz to examine his phiz.
And ask how the gentleman fared;
The brisk pas3ers-by let John Kennedy lie,
The little boys sniggered and stared.
Unheeded, alone on the cold cruel stone,
Prostrate a man may remain,
Feebly fighting for breath, till the Angel of Death
Brings him a release from his paid.
But a life more or less matters little, we guess,
The same thing will happen again.
BRIEF MENTION
I Tiie Melbourne Herald apologises for
speaking of a coroner’s jury as a “ gang.’
Heard on the gory battlefield on Satur-
day : “ Halt, way, hold on, stop you—stop I
Spofforth, it is oabled, is “dead on the
wicket.” The records of late matohes seem to
prove that the eleven are all dead—at the wicket.
One Jacob has been putting a ladder 80ft.
high against the wall of Melbourne gaol. The
modern Jacob’s ladder doesn’t take a man to
heaven.
It is proposed in Germany to start a
Teuton bank in Australia “under State surveil-
lance.” A lot of non-Teuton bankers in Australia
I are just now under the surveillance of the State.
A N.Z. olergyman, who doesn’t believe in
the eternal punishment doctrine, says that be finds
the offertories falling off to an alarming extent.
We always did believe that most church-goers
only paid for hell.
The Argus rejoices that “ the majority of
mankind are not political theorists and are not,
happily, facetious.* If they were, such a dreary
disseminator of false doctrines wouldn t have a
single subscriber.
A large quantity of gin has been seized
on the premises of a Queensland J.P. This world
is getting demoralised. We will hear next that
the Archbishop of Canterbury keeps dynamite,
and is a Fenian Head Centre.
In the worst room of the lowest Chinese
crib in Sydney the prayer, “ God bless our Home,
in letters four inches long and beautiiully illu-
minated, hangs conspicuously over the opium-
couch. A grim humourist is the Chinaman.
An obituary notioe of considerable Chris-
tian interest appears in the Agb. *’ In memory of
C. H —, who departed this life to be with the
Lord at South Melbourne.” Pooh! Anyone can
get to Bouth Melbourne without dying first.
“ Mr. George Coleman does all the princi-
pal criminal business in Wagga,” writes the
Mudgee Independent, in a paragraph intended
to compliment a young and rißlng lawyer. He
must be a olever man to bear with suoh a large
responsibility.
Extraot from newspaper report of Vio-
torian divorce-case: —“Acting under her mothers
advice, however, she did not appear to .prosecute
him, and he was discharged.” A mother-in-law
advising her daughter not to prosecute her hus-
band! What next?
All the elite of Melbourne went down to
Footscray through the rain, last week, to see the
“Lady Looh'’ launched, The other Lady Loch
was present to christen .her namesake, that was to
be, with champagne. But the vessel wouldn t
move even with that enoouragement. It Is now
proposed to re-name her the Dead-Loch.
Burke, M.P., of N.B. W., says reporters get
their li viog by telling lies. One newspaper retorts
that it isn’t through the lies the pressmen tell, but
through those they report, that they get their
little crust. However, one use to which reporters
put lies has, so far, been overlooked. They Burke
them—suppress them, in the public interest.
A Mr. Lynch is suing for £350 damages
from W. J. Moore, a Fltzroy (Melb.) publican,lor
having written a post-card on which the plaintiff
was requested to pay for certain drinks if he were
an honest man. We nave not heard whether the
drink bill was settled, but we suppose the injured
gentleman is too much taken up with his honesty
to make this point clear in the newspapers.
Rum and religion. From a Maokay (Q.)
paper:—“Mr. Edward Dlmmock, the genial host
of the Great Northern Hotel, has transferred his
right, title, and interest therein to Mrs. Pogson,
and gone to Mackay; and the Rev. Mr. Peart held
divine service and formally opened the Presby-
terian Church on Sunday last.” And the pub.
mentioned first 1 The man who wrote that para-
graph is evidently the sort of person who never
says bis prayers until he has taken his morning
rum.
From Yon Hartman’s “Religion of the
Future:”—” Without eudcemonologioal pessimism
must evolutionistio optimism lead to Irreligious
secularism; without evolutionistio optimism must
eudsemonological pessimism beoome an indolent
despondency, or degenerate into religious asceti-
cism.” This puts in a nutshell what the parsons
have been trying to explain for 18 centuries. It la
just our opinion, too. Yes, we have always felt
that without eudaewhatsisname the other thing
must lead to thingamy, and then the whole coun-
try will be In Darlinghurst.
“ Tom Ryan,” writing to the Sydney D.T.,
repeats the oft-told tale of the unemployed emi-
grant. He was induced to come out by the usual
mer dacioua lecturer, who told him that Australia
was a paradise, with £1 a week in lieu of the harp,
but during two months’ residence he reports that
he h snot bad one day’s work. “I have often
gone,” he says. “ to the dirt-boxes in the night for
rotten fruit and bits of bread.” His present ad-
dress is simply “ The Domain,” and this briefly
sums up the story of another victim of that most
stupendous of hired liars, the Australian emigra-
tion agent.
There is only one undertaker in the Fijian
metropolis, and he is about to retire from the
business and leave the people to bury themselves.
Undertaking in Fiji, instead of being, as in Aus-
tralia, the path to princely affluence, is a game of
hide-and-seek with Hunger in which hunger wins
twice out of three times. This Fijian Kirby pays
50s. per quarter for his license, not to mention his
rent and other expenses. Yet during the last
quarter be had only two burials, and native
corpses at that, whioh brought him 15s. apiece.
He will take it kindly, he says, if anybody will
send bim a tin of typnoid fever or a canister of
cholera.
The proceedings at Melbourne morgue are
nearly always of a mirthful oharaoter. This is
due entirely to the unflagging spirits of Dr. Youl,
city coroner, to whom the sight of a corpse Is an
immediate iticentive to waggery of a weird des-
cription He Btated, the other day, that there
were no lees than three persons walking about
now whom he had registered as dead! There are
infinite of humour contained in this
stau ment. We prefer, however, to let them stay
there. Wnat we want to find out is. whether, if
D • V’oul knows three people walking about whom
h" h isregibtered «s dead, he gave them the fees he
got for inquesting them, or not? That is the
question.
I it has just been discovered that the Sydg
nay Lancers are a naval force—a sort of horse
marines, or dugong cavalry—after all. On Satur-
day, the citizens of the N B.W. metropolis were
expeoted to believe that an enemy bad landed
Bondi for a dash at the city, and among them
ware the Lancers, who appear to have galloped
over the brine, and formed themselves into hollow
fauares on the top of the sad sea waves. Last year
this gorgeous brigade were in a very similar
position, and they rode calmly along under a ter-
rific fire while General Fremantle, late of .the
Soudan, said with a groan:-” Oh, these are the
Lancers, are they ? They, of course, are to con-
sider themselves slaughtered to a.man. A Sydney
Lanceah, it seems, doesn’t even know when be is
dead. ,
A petition has been presented to the
Governor of Victoria praying that Britain should
gobble up the New Hebrides lest the
should be overrun with bad Frenchmen. ine
document b?ars about 130 orosses, each of whioh
is supposed to represent the autograph of a caiei.
As a rule, when the New Hebrideans want to dgn
a tr-aty or anything of the
toteth- r in solemn conolave and subscribe tne
agreement ny cutting a notch in a tree, or gnawing
off one joint of a cow’s tail, or sitting down in a
bag of flour, or drinking a gourd full of wmsxy
and then eating the gourd, but we presume the
petition ia authentic ail the same. But even witn
120 niggers to back up federated Australia in this
i matter, it is rather too late to think of embezzling
the New Hebrides.
The Christian oonferenoe, whioh sat last
week at Melbourne, bas come to the conclusion
that Vlotoria Is going to the dogs through ungodly
dancing, and appeals to Christian ®othew Jwi
vent their daughters assisting in a half-clothed
condition at this unbishoplike amusement. A oer-
taiaMr.Paton, from the New Hebrides,evenas
serts that his oateohised and biblised savMes
would blush right down to their shins
of a Victorian ball-room, and anyone who knows
how much bare nigger and how little clothes go to
make up a South Sea savage will understand the
size of this eraetion. Also he thinks the same
heathen would faint if he saw busses and tramoars
running on Sunday, and it would be necessary to
bang him on the head with a tract to bring him to.
But we fear the dances and the tramcars will go
on all the same, and the ooooa-nut idolater may
faint if he pleases.
The Town and Country Journal states
that an Auckland merohant has “ committed sui-
cide by apparently discharging the contents or a
gun into his mouth, as he was found sitting on a
chair with a gun between his knees and a 'wcwnd
in the hack of hU tuck.” This is the> most remark-
able suicide on reoord. If an Auckland man takes
an apparent gun between his
his mouth, yet shoots himself in the back of the
neck, he must either have worn the back of his
neck in front, or his knees must have been behind.
In the latter case he would have to scratch tne
small of his back with his knee-pan, and in the
former, we presume he would hoist his tea-oup
over the top of his head, for his jiw would be
behind. Very few men, too, die appa-
rently ” shooting themselves, but after viewing
the apparent corpse the friends of the man with
the remarkable neck have concluded the job has
been done successfully.
A Melbourne hotelkeeper has been most
unjustly fined for Sunday trading. It happened
in this way. Mrs. Ktrkbam has a loved and only
daughter, the jov and comfort of her mother s de-
clining years. Sickness overtook the poor girl,
and last Sub day week she seemed like to die. The
agonised mother bent over her daughter s pillow
and enquired if there was anything she could get
to soothe her last moments. Ihe invalid raised
herself upon one elbow and whispered colonial
beer.” Quick as thought, Mrs, K. hurried off to
the nearest hotel upon her sacred misdon. tor s
while the landlord’s wife was obdurate, but finally
the mother’s pleadings prevailed. “ Give me them
two bottles, and save my child s life, she said.
The landlady yielded, and was lost. A policeman
spotted the transaction, a summons was issued,
and a£s fine imposed. This teaches hotelkeepers
a lesson. Never sell colonial beer for healing pur-
poses. Merely dispense it like other liquors-as a
pizon.
“W. H. B.” is permitted for some un-
fathomable reason to write a snuffling letter in
the Sydney D.T. on “Music as an Aid to Devo-
tion.” He says he is “ passionately fond of music,
ana has experienced the greatest delight in the
grand effect the wooden houses of the colonies
have on improving sound jin fact, they act like
sounding-boards.” Yes, “W. H. 8., they do. Ia
almost every jerry-built hash-house in this music-
cursed land there is a jerry-built time-payment
piano, whioh is banged upon night and day by an
image of eternal misery, and the melody leaks out
through every hole in the weather-board shell,
and makes life not worth having. Then there are
concertinas, and fiddles, and cornets worked by
the genius of everlasting blow, and the Australian
who has none of these gets inside a wooden
shanty and sings, as an aid—great Jehosapbat—to
devotion. " Music as an Incentive to Cursing and
Blasphemy,” is the subject we want to write about
in the D. C. to the extent of three volumes.
Ihe police raided a lot ©f the Chines 9
lbiingr hells in Sydney on Monday night. Great
cautions were taken, the houses betng entered
ultaneously from back and front. The bland
thens were found to be engaged In the most
ooent of diversions, and not a single arrest
i made. The interesting question Is, who told
Chinese that a raid was fixed for that night?
Jnder motion for adjournment on Tues-
■ night la the N.B.W. Assembly Mr. Chanter
idea to The Bulletin's Chinese article in the
st commendatory terms. Interrupted by a
eh from the Opposition benohes—a howl from
i Yellow Pup-*t the mention of the paper, he
1, “ It’s all very well to laugh, but I can assure
i that some of the best'Wrltten articles
be found In the newspaper press of
Iney are in its columns. The articles are
credit to the paper.
) Chinese were as bad as described, and an
;olerable disgrace to the city, and suggested
i appointment of a Board to deal with the ques-
n. Mr. Thompson, of Maitland, followed in
illar strain, asserting that crimes far worse
m those described were habitual to the
inese. Sir Henry Parkes defended China-
sn generally. He had no doubt that
me of them were Immoral, but seemed to
Ink, on the whole, that Australians were
trifle worse. He did not compare the two
ces with reference to insolvency transactions-
is was probably an oversight on his part , such
mparison would, in some cases, be to the ad-
,ntage of the Chinese. It Is worth noticing that
e Sydney Herald merely states that the
ilneae article was published in the weekly
■ess,” leaving it to bo inferred, perhaps, that the
rLNEY Mail was entitled to the repute of vanti-
ting the subject.
An interesting little mill was held at the
sW. Assembly, on Tuesday night. The
inister for Works, Mr. Lyne, comprehensively
;scribed the Opposition as “cowards. Mr. W.
larks, the burly member for Orange, asked him
i come outside. He did so, and the whcne
ouse followed. The champions met at the
ick of the chair, and a lively one-round
sittle, resulting in a draw, ensued. The flsrht-
i— disDlaved little of science. Mr. Lyne
pparentlv was under the impression that his arms
Are 20 feet long* for lie led off with his leit
r hen Mr. Clarke was quite that distance away,
he blow fell short, as did Mr. Clarke a swinging
Ight-hander, delivered when the Pngs were two
aet closer. !l Qo it, Lyne,” “ ’lt ’im in the heye,
rere some of the claislo injunctions
he men closed, but eaoh of the
j a HoH\7Prv “ a rush away and a round- firmer
ieing the current style of legislative
llustrated by these champions. It did not take
auch to part them, Hr. Lyne showing one
irnifft as his share of the mill. Mewra.
heoherd and Dawson had a little turn-up of a
imilar character while the principals were thus
ingaged° the*nose of the former and the waistcoat
mttons of the latter suffering some injury. It
vrs a shameful scene, for which the ontooking
nembers are very muoh-hardly less than the
jrinoipals—to be blamed.
Mr. Walter Reynolds, “ dramatic author
mth a e Ct Graod a o\d 3 M\n% to poeitlon P caa hard y be
gjf inBerted°'in
••+hfi neoDle or Great Britain are a solid wall
behind him.” We should think Mr. Gladstone had
Inspected that wall, and knew all about its solidity
long ago. .
The Prinoe of Wales is said to be arranging
for a Drivate performance of “Sapho ’ at Her
Maiesty’s Theatre, London. “ Sapho is the
eramatteed version of Daudet’s novel, which the
r (or rather his representative)
refused t“ license for the English stage. M.
Mayer? who annually runs a short season of French
ruava in London, was unexpectedly floored by this
refusa? last* year, but although his urgent plead-
fnfffi 8 were oordially endorsed by Bertie, he
fafied W to shake the official resolve. People who
hungered and thirsted for “ Sapho,” had to rest
r, w i t h the novel, pure and simple. And
22? novel is enough, in all conscience. The man
whose frameof mind is healthy may study a one-
SSlSwmffia fh«e hot aauoet.


A Retort.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, It has come and has gone,
I have some pride, you the same;
You will scarce put willow on,
I will have buiied a name.
A stone— jam jacet— no more;
Let the world wonder at will;
You have the key to the door,
I have the cenotaph still.
A tear—one tear—ls it much
Dropped on a desert of pain ?
Had you one passionate touch
Of nature there had been rain.
Purpose, O no, there was none.
You could not know if you would;
You were the Innocent one—
Malice, nay, you were too good.
Hearts should not be in your way,
You must pass on-and you did;
“ Oh, did I hurt you ?” you say—
Hurt me, O Heaven forbid.
Inquisitorial ways
Might have hurt truly, but this
Done in these wise latter days,
It was too sudden, I wis.
Painless and pleasing—this is
*io bad advertisement, true;
Painless extinction was his,
And it was pleasing—to you.
Still, when the surgerr’s done—
That is the technical term—
Which has lost most, which has won?
Rise now and freely affirm.
You carry still what we call
(Poets are dreamy, we know)
A heart; well, tis yours after all,
And Time has its wonders, I trow.
You may look back with your eyes
Turned to the dead of the past,
And find with a sad surprise.
Yours is the dead at the last.
Seeing afar in the sands
Gardens grow green, at what cost I
You may reach upward your hands,
Prayiug for what you have lost.
HORATIO GILBKRT PARKER.
A Poem
(Published in a London Magazine bv Mr. Day, of
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, April, 1787 k
Ye favor’d Botanists, permit a muse
Whose eye enraptured your importance views
In friend ly numbers and with truth expressed
To raise unceasing transport in your breast;
On England turn your permanent esteem
And make her bounty your applauding themel
What throne, but her’s, to so untaught a raoe
Could send such peerless ministers of grace?
Equip so blest and competent a fleet,
And scarce reduce one villas in Der street ?
Export such cargoes of her choicest ,
And still retain such unexhausted stores ?
No latent scheme her charity controls,
Her heart expands in pity for your souls!
And urged by motives splendidly sublime,
Which dare the keenest scrutiny of time,
Her noblest arts and artisans exports
The very soul and essence of her courts!
In these her villains in a low estate
Behold a model of her pampered great,
Who, without poverty s excuse to plead,
Are but grandfathers of this poorer breed!
Completely vile, deliberately base,
Without the fear or knowledge of disgrace.
They spread as locusts—titles their defence,
Gained without honour, rectitude, or sense,
Sold as a license in this peddling clime
For every sneaking sin, and every giant crime!
In this, her present, unimpaired you see
The infant foetus of a grand levee,
Which the State midwives from the mother drew
And sent them pickled aad preser v ed, to you 111
The scripture's volume this command extends,
If thou hast plenty, share it with thy friends;
Obedient Britain the command receives,
And kindly shares her plenty in her-thieves;
And to confirm she’s read the Bible through,
She shares her plenty in her harlots too.
How shall my muse such philanthropy tell,
To prove her zeal for God, she leads you all to—Hell!
Hail native land, where arts of every kind
Are nurtured, honour’d, patronis’d' refin’d.
On our approach, ye natives of the Bay,
Welcome your saviours with a loud huzza;
Your toi resign—your holiday begin,
And with chaste carols hymn your prophets in:
Bow down, ye elders, and ye matrons too,
Embrace their knee—bring saeriflce in view;
Nay, be more meek, and, with approaches low,
Treat them as Popes, and Hiss the sacred toe,
Whose dire impression on your luckless shore
Millions shall mourn, and curse for evermore;
Disease shall reign (her baleful flag unfurl’d),
And breathe contagion through your little world;
Bapine and lust uprear their hellish yoke,
And peals of blasphemy truth’s God provoke;
Unheard transgressions howl their horrid birth
And fly malignant o’er the blasted earth—
Till even Britain, with an humbled mind,
Besign perdition’s path, content to walk behind !
Botany Bay
In the month of December, 1786, the following
verses were published in an English magazine :
Away with these whimsical bubbles of air
Which only excite a momentary stare;
Attention to plans of utility pay,
Weigh anchor, and steer for Botany Bay.
Let no one think much of a trifling expense,
Who knows what may happen a hundred years
hence ?
The loss of America what can repay ?
New colonies seek for at Botany Bay.
O’er Neptune’s domain, how extensive the scope,
Of quickly returning, how defiant the hope.
The Canes must be doubled, and then bear away
Three thousand good leagues to reach Botany
Bay.
Of those precious souls who for nobody care
It seems a large cargo the kingdom can spare,
To ship off a gross or two, make no delay,
They cannot too soon go to Botany Bay.
They go of an island to take special charge,
Much warmer than Britain, and ten times as large,
No custom-house duty, no freightage to pay,
And tax-free they live when at Botany Bay.
3S3jl* garden of Eden, this new promised land,
Ihe time to set sail for will soon be at hand;
x e worst of land-lubbers, make ready for sea,
lhere s room for you all about Botany Bay.
As scores of each sex to this land must proceed
in twenty years’ time—only think of the breed,
Major Semple, should fortune much kindness dis-
„ Play,
May live to be king over Botany Bay.
v general good, make a general sweep,
be auty of life in good order to keep,
Y™ 1 hlght- prowling hateful disturbers away,
Ana send the whole tribe unto Botany Bay.
«rvL 0 i? e *£ who go out on this naval exploit,
one _work to accomplish, and set matters right,
i dbe kind, call at Cork on your way,
Ana take some White Boys unto Botany Bay.
S®P™ e J e jhl arrangements give prospects of joy,
yr? ri? * may be kept ev’ry national tie,
no..?*. confidence those who betray
ne sent to the bottom of Botany Bay,
R. B.
December 19,1786.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
At Sourabaya (Java) a Chinaman is making
a fortune by providing new sets of book for mer-
chants about to fall. He would make a pile in
Australia—An Italian, one Succi, has asserted
that while travelling in Africa he discovered a
liquor extracted from herbs which “mummifies”
the body—that is to say, renders it insensible to
hunger and thirst. Sued has been examined by
several medical men while “ under the influence,”
and they are asserted to have detected no Iraud
He is to undergo another test. We would advise the
Government to try a bottle on the unemployed..
Irishmen love simile. Lord Hartington is des-
MADAME PATTI.
cribed by a Dublin paper as “ a gorged Python
ruminantly chewing his thumb-nail;’’ and Mr.
Gcschen is pictured as “ an Egyptian skeleton dap-
ping his damp wings with a raven’s croak and a
wolf’s death-rattle.” Mr. Parnell, however, has
the face of an angel, “softened and suffused with
the glow of enthusiasm, the light gilding the edges
of his beard like a halo I” “ Who Is this Herbert
Gladstone ?” shrieked a Tory candidate at a Lon-
don election meeting, “ who is he but a mere up-
start who would never have been heard of had it not
been for his father!" Agnes Gilbert, a Baltimore
nun, who, according to Rubenstein, had the richest
and most wonderful voice known within the
memory of man, is dead. Strakoseh once offered
her £lO,OOO to tour for six months, but she pre-
ferred to bury herself in a convent
SIGNOR NICOLINI.
Now the Pillionaire Holloway’s Women’s College
(which cost the ointment man £600,000 exclusive of
the endowment) has been taken in hand by the
Queen it is expected that Wales will be shortly
asked to preside over the Liver Pad. Asylum for
Idiots... One of the largest British ironclads, the
Colossus, has four self-bursting 43-ton guns
aboard. They are so dangerous thattney are only
to be fired in actual warfare, and even then the
chances are 10 to 1 that they will explode
An English clergyman has got into gaol for
running up bills with hotel-keepers and then
skedaddling. He said in the dock that he “really
thought it was only a commercial .transaction.”
.....An interesting lawsuit is amusing the Paris
lawyers. A man died and left a legacy of £l2OO to
his niece in lowa, who seems to have died just about
the same time. The unde departed at 10 a.m., and
if his niece was then alive her heirs would come
into the money, which otherwise reverts to the
uncle s heirs. The points to be decided are the
relation of solar time to true in the two longi-
tudes, and the exact moment of the niece’s death.
Toe real question, however, is as to which of the
lawyers shall divide the plunder "Please to
keep rice outside of the church, and oblige 8.
Ademah, verger,” is the brief notice pasted out-
side St. Peter’s Church, Brighton, England....At
the burial of the Khedive’s recently-deceased
grandmotner the procession was headed by bul-
locks, which were afterwards slaughtered and
given to the poor. A crowd of hired weeping
women followed the coffin.... The high aristocrats
of Annam wear tremendously long finger-nails
whioh look like fearful weapons of offence and
are used as spoons. One of them, who
was tempted to taste English bottled beer,
after stirring it up with his talons, observed
that the sugar had not been put in...
When the Prince of Wales visited East London
lately, nothing tickled him so muoh as the legend
displayed by the witty proprietor of the Queen’s
Arms public-house:—“ Welcome to Mile-end and
to the Queen’s Arms, where you had your first
driak.” The joke was immense. The Princess
did not see it at first, but the Prince evidently
gave her a hint, and the richness of the rough jeu
de mot at once brought a laugh to her face, and
kept her in a state of smiling good humour for
long after Patti has had her revenge. Having
long been cold-shouldered by the Queen, because
of her complicated domestic affairs, she has re-
fused to sing at a recent State concert when “ com-
manded ” to do so Britain is urging China to
resist the Russian occupation of Port Lazareff.
If this advice is taken there will probably be a
good deal of broken China shortly England
can’t sit still for 10 consecutive minutes without
going round the corner for a drink. Last year
she spent £120,000 000 in grog —The U S. Congress
have received nalf-a-mile of petition against the
Chinese.
It is hard to believe that King Ludwig, of
Bavaria, was insane. He studiously avoided all
women. But yet, as lie avoided the opposite sex,
he can have had no reason for suicide. Therefore
he must have been mad.
Some ide-Lights on the Indo Colonial
Exhibition.
London, July 7.
Dear Bulletin,—l have attained no fame
by the Exhibition so far, but then I am not a Com-
missioner, and Mr. *van Jones, of Sydney, is.
Apart irom the advantages natural to that ap-
pointment, the Hunter-street (Sydney) jeweller is
a man of push. What the HS J. fails to get by
persuasion he effects by coercion. His energy
was so pronounced that the late Sir A. Stuart was
wont to amble off r -und the nearest and biggest
exhibit when his confrere from Hunter-street
hove in sight, and poor Sir Saul is now obliged to
resort to similar tactics, it was too bad of the
authorities in Sydney to “sool ” the jeweller on to
the Commissioners here as a private citizen,
Evan might have been dt fled with impunity, and
with the assistance of the police like aoy ordinary
colonial visitor, but bis eommlsMonership is—in
cricketing parlance-a ball that is slmpiy unplay-
able. Th« result is that the N.S. W. court is Mr«
Evan Jones’ court. Including the huge medal-
stamping pres 3, which covers a large area, and
woere a roaring trade is done in "Exhibition
medals ’’struck off before your eyes, he ho'ds two
other stands, at one of which he is also permitted
to sell photographic views. Now, considering
that the last-named privilege was denied a Sydney
photographer—which K.J. is not—the affair cer-
tainly requires explanation.
* * *
As you will readily gather from the fore-
going remarks, Mr. Jones is socially übiquitous.
If he makes up his mind to be present at a. fete or
a dinner, it’s a thousand pounds to a shirt-button
that he fa present. And he usually does make up
his mind. The Agents-General do not love him,
but they ask him to their houses, and they see that
he is included in the invitations to all the big
Anglo-Australian grub-wrangliegs, no matter how
many royal dukes are to be present, although
his name was not published in connection with
the Windsor affair. I’m open to take reasonable
odds that he was there, and that he had as much to
say to the Queen as anyone else.
* * *
Would you like to bean intimate friend of
the Prince of Wales—so intimate as to De permitted
to live in one of his houses rent-1 rt e? Would you
like to boss huge exhibitions, having all the con-
tracts, etc., etc., etc., passing through your hands?
Would you like but why go on ?Ot course you
would like to be Sir P. C. Owen, and so would I.
Sir Philip is a clever man. Here is his latest
move, put simply, and “in the original ” “ Wales,
old boy,” he said, “tell you what we 11 do. We’ll
get these colonist fellows to make us a present of
aiJ the exhibits Then we'll get the Government
to make us a handsome grant, and we’Jl put up a
huge buildiDg, stuff the exhibits into it, call it a
museum, and there you are, don’t you know.”
“And you will boss it, at a thumping big screw, for
the rest of your days,” remark* a Walts, with a
knowing smile. “ Well, yes, that’s about it,” as-
sented Owen, frankly; “you see I’m getting old
and grey, and it’s time I settled down.” “All right,
Phil, old psrdl” said the Prince, “I’ll see to it.
Pass the lights.” And that’s how it's going to be.
* * *
P One thousand pound* was placed in the
hands of the Executive Commissioner for the
purpose of entertaining the colonial visitors. Sir
Alexander Stuart gave one or two lunches, I be-
lieve, but about £970 of that “ thou.” must etill be
left. Who's goiDg to spend it I wonder ? And
what is to become of that £lOO a month ? If Bir
Saul Bamuel is to do the work I should think he
ought to get the coin. By the way.it seems to me that
the harder people work the less money they get,
and vice versa. Listen- Loftus gets £BO per month
(duties elegant and light), R. S. Price gets £34 T. C.
Binny came over on full pay, but as he has been
ill almost ever since the opening day all the work
in connection with the Mining Department ex-
hibits devolves upon a young man named j. Ford,
who receives the munificent sum of £9 15s.
monthly. Mr. H. B. Hardt (an exhibition hand of
great experience) has done more work in connec-
tion with the N.S. W. court both before and since the
opening than most ot the others put together.
He was first appointed Clerk of Works by Sir Saul
Samuel, and he is now called superintendent. He
is always tbeie. from early morning till last thing
at Dight. He is the oDiy man who “knows all
about it,” and he is always ready to share his
knowledge. A.nd his salary is £l2los. per month.
For his services no to the opening day, Mr. G. C.
Levey received £2OO, a very moderate figure in-
deed, for it may almost be said if there had been
no Mr. G. C. L. (with bis boundless experience,
energy, and enthusiasm), there would have been
no N.S W. Court. I am very glad that Levey has
been appointed Secretary to the Commission (in
London) of the South Australian Jubilee Exhibi-
tion, and that our hard-working Hardt has good
offers both from S.A and Victoria.
Yours ever,
A. B. ORIGINAL.
“Editor Bulletin, —Sir—l am afraid I
am not a very good Christian, but I am, alas, next
door to one, and I am also next door to a public
house, In other words, I am wedged in between
an hotel and a church, and after a long experience
of the two, I want to know if I can’t suppress the
house of prayer, and get another godless hotel
there instead. Even if perdition could be shifted
next door it would be a trifling nuisance compared
to the church, with its eternal bell and its eternal
services—its singing, chanting, and howling. For
some weeks my brother’s wife, poor little woman,
was lying very ill at her house, and the ceaseless
booming from the adjacent sacred establishment
—the church, I mean—aggravated her malady.
At last, one Sunday morning, a crisis arrived, and
quiet being essential, I appealed to the parson
next door to give the patient a show for her life
by keeping his infernal belfry silent for one day
atleast; also to pound the Word in a lower key
than usual, and take the higher notes of his ser.
mon as read. He gazed on me with mute astonish-
ment as I made this request, and then solemnly
responded that his mission was to dispense the
water of life, and that he had been called,
&0., &o. That evening he preached with
the windows open, and every now and then
he would boom out something about • salvation,’
or hell, or redemption, at the top of bis Stall-fed
voice, which made the sufferer start from her
uneasy morphia-begotten slumbers. His bell, too,
was as loud and vicious as ever, and that same
night my unfortunate sister-in-law had to be
taken away from the little home which held her
and her paralysed husband and removed to the
hospital, where, I grieve to say, she seems to be
slowly dying. She is an honest, patient, little
woman, as truly Christian in spirit as any one of
the many self-denying clergymen I have known,
and I ask you, sir, whether it is not outrageous
that she should be subjected to such hideous tor-
ture in order that the alleged Christian gentleman
next door should conform to this worn-out fetish
of bell-clanging ? I would like to know whether
the same law which allows a parson to ring a bell
for half an hour as a sign that he is going to pray
would interfere with me if I beat a big drum in
the street for 30 minutes just to let my neighbours
know when lam going to bed. I suppose it would.
- Yours truly, Jacob Ed. Fowler.” [ Why doesn’t
our correspondent “go” fjr the clergyman by
prosecuting him at law for a nuisance ? If that
course prove ineffectual, he will have the sym-
pathy of all honest citizens when he is tried for
contumeliously breaking the reverend one’s head
or sacrilegiously cutting the bell-rope.— Ed. B.J


The Naughty Boy!
“WHEN HE WAS GOOD, HE WA S VEBY GOOD; WHEN HE WAS BAD, HE WAS HORRID.'


Justice and Judge Docker.


Woman Items
The great woman question, “ Where does
she get the money for all those new dresses ?”
In Sydney the ladies show their feet, and
so do the larrikinesses. How is it that the latter
seem to be so muoh the better shod ?
A mean advertisement“ A young man
on the verge of getting married, wishes to meet
with some experienced individual who will dis-
suade him from the step.”
ODE TO THE WIND.
(By a Woman.)
“ Providenoe sends the w eked wind
That blows our skirts knee-hign;
But God is good, aod he sends the dust
That blows in the bad man’s eye.”
“ A long-felt local want,” says the Mudgee
Independent, “ has been established.” The long-
felt want is a second-hand furniture shop, many
articles of which were for a long time felt by
erring husbands as their better halves waddied
them with stray backs of chairs or lost legs of
tables.
“If,” says a Sydney daily, “Sir Alfred
Stephen’s Divorce Extension Bill had passed a
year ago, the murdered Mrs. Rhoda Catherine
Reynolds would be alive to-day, with her children
about her, and a long career of happy usefulness
before her.” Yes if she had had enough money
to pay the Coonans.
The latest thing in London is the “ revival
masher,” a kind of aristocratic Salvationist in
evening dress. The “saved” masher habitually
wears a swallow-tail as a sign of inward grace, and
men who do not possess these garments are. of
course, not eligible to be saved in this way. The
ladies, when they find religion, adopt low-necked
dresses, and the more euticle they show, the more
religion they are supposed to have found. Among
the leaders of the band, the religion extends ail
down the spine.
THE PRIMRO3E DAME.
“ She sheddeth her fragrance around you in
showers;
It was wrung from the lives of our human
flowers,
Without thought of shame or blame;
And the rose of health, that was ruthlessly torn
From the children’s cheeks, is wantonly worn
In the robes of the Primrose Dame.”
—Gerald Massey.
The keystone to the whole Australian
pyramid of asses seems to be an individual who
signs himself “ Algernon ” in the Sydney Evening
News. He has reaohed, he says, the age of 34, and
is still so much alive that he is anxious to settle
down to "marital bliss,” and would correspond
with a young “ demoiselle,” with a view to the
“ inevitable matrimonial result.” He has excellent
prospects, is good-looking, “ and is altogether an
extremely interesting young gentleman.” “ Al-
gernon,” we should say, is ‘‘in the drarery.” Any
alleged man who Is “interesting,” must be in the
drapery.
At a pow-wow of Indians, on Columbia
River, the subject of white women’s “bustles”
was discussed by chiefs, squaws, and medicine
men. One squaw took a bag of feathers, tied it
behind her, and imitated the way in which the
pale-faced women walk with them on. A warrior
guessed it was to catch insects. Another thought
it had something to do with the perspiration. At
last the old doctor—the medicine man—from
whose decision there is no appeal, gave the signal
for sileHce, and then said, “ That the white women
had not so good forms as the Indian women, and
that the white mem were very fond of good forms,
and that the white women wore these bags to
make the white men think they were well
formed.” He then sat down amid repeatec
grunts.
Queen Viotorla abhors flirting. When her
eldest daughter was a coquettish and wayward
miss of 13, she, on one occasion, showed, us the
Queen noticed, a disposition to be rather familiar
and to flirt with some young officers of the escort.
Her Majesty gave several reproving looks; but
they were lost upon the high-spirited “ Vicky,”
who was thoroughly enjoying herself. At length,
in dangling her handkerchief over the side of the
open carriage, she dropped it—too evidentally not
accidentally. Instantly two or three young heroes
sprang from their saddles to return it to her fair
hand; but the awful voice of royalty stayed them.
“ Stop, gentlemen I” exclaimed the Queen;
“ leave it just where it lies. Now, my daughter,
get down from the carriage and pick your hand-
kerchief up.” Which she had to do.
The Moruya (N.8.W.) Cottage Hospital
seems to be an expensive place to die in, and even
the toughest and most dignified of worms would
turn when pecked at by the hon. secretary of that
institution with his little bill. According to
the local paper a poor woman was recently re-
moved there, and during the six days she spent in
dying she ran up an account for £8 3a., in addition
to which she cost £4 for medical attendance, and
£4 for burial, or £l6 3s in all. At this rate, if she
had lived 13 months in the institution, and been
burled only once a week during that time, the
damage would have been £839 16s. It is fiurther
reported that she was unconsoious during the last
three days of her life, and as she is debited with
three bottles of brandy and one of wine, all pre-
sumably consumed during 73 hours, this circum-
stance will not excite surprise. She is also sup-
posed to have eaten 10s. worth of groceries, these
being probably required to keep the liquor down,
and to have cost the wardsman, in bother and
anguish the sum of £3 145., and the matron £1
“ Wood and water lls ” is an item which is about
equivalent to a ton of the former, and IfiOO gallons
of the latter. Dyiag at the rate of nearly £B4O a
year is a luxury that very few could afford. It
would be considerably cheaper to remain alive.
Melbourne, August 11.—Editor Bulletin,
—1 daresay in your lifetime you’ve received a
great many complaints from females, just as a
doctor is troubled often with female complaints ;
and now I come to add my grain of sand to your
burthca. lama large woman—“a big woman,”
as the world says—and what I want to know is
why should a big woman be judged to be able to
take care of herself in the smallest degree more
than a small woman ? I measure five leet seven,
and am built stout in proportion, and if a remark
ia passed it is, “Oh, so-and-so, she is quite able to
take care of herself.” Now why should that be so ?
Why should a woman with all a woman’s weak-
nesses, and a woman’s heart beating inside of a
woman’s corsets and body, because she has en-
croached a little on a man’s inches be judged by
the world to be specially able “to take care of
herself,” while a woman of five feet three, if in
danger or difficulty, is helped on all sides ? “ Poor
little woman! 1 ’ is what you will hear everywhere,
and every masculine face expresses the sympathy
it feels for the subject. Why, sir, may I ask,
should this injustice continue ? Is a mere matter
of inehes to keep a female from meeting that sym-
pathy of boul which should spring spontaneous
irom every manly bosom. . . . My husband has
just come to tea. He is five feet four, and raises
Gain if it’s net ready,-so concluding in haste, I
temain, dear Editor, yours, &c., Susan.
A governess writing to Health on “ Wasp
Waists,” gives her experiences of tight-laoing.
Here is a specimen;—" Miss , who was ‘coming
out about a month after my arrival, was bent upon
reducing the size of her waist to an inch less than
that of a young lady whose figure was very much
admired just then. Of course, to do this, new stays
were necessary, as those she was then wearing
were laced close. I went with her to the corset-
maker with whom the family dealt. Miss
ordered the corsets to be * very strongly boned,
and made long in shape.’ Every woman knows
that long stays mean more pinching. In a few
days the stays were sent home, and I was asked to
assist the maid in putting them on. When they were
fitted, tbe difficulty was to lace them close. They
were two inohes smaller than the ones she usually
wore. At last they were drawn close, and my pupil
was an inch less than her rivals—namely, fourteen
inches. Bhe fainted twice during the first day,
and did not go down at all, for she informed me,
begging me not to tell any one, that she was *in
an agony of pain.’ In about a fortnight, she
began to feel insensible to the pinching, and, as
for her mother, she was delighted.” And after
giving some more instances, she says:—“l could
give more instances, but your space will not per-
mit. I believe there exist but two remedies:—l.
The attacking of corset-wearing when young. A
grown woman who ‘laces’ wifi seldom give up
the practice 3. The adoption of a freer and
more sensible costume for girls. This last ought
not to be a difficult matter. I cannot understand,
I must confess, the opposition to tbe introduction
of‘dual garments,’when many mothers let their
daughters wear such short dresses that three or
four inches of very pronounced, if prettily frilled,
knickerbockers are to be seen.”
The wife of the President of the United
Btates deserves, if ever woman did, th* thanks
and praise of her sex forever. But unfortunate
males will neither praise nor thank her; or, if
they do. it will be in tones of gloomy sarcasm.
She has completely shattered that soothing theory
of lord-and-mastership which husbands held so
long. When it came to that part of the marriage
ceremony where she had to say that she would
“love, honour, and obey” her husband, she re-
peated the “ love” and “honour ” without hesita-
tion, but there she stopped for an instant, and
then, in accents of decision, substituted “com-
fort ” for “ obey.” It is now open for all brides
to follow her fexample. We hardly know whether
we are doing our duty by our own sex in making
this pernicious precedent public. Wives have, be-
fore now, made the vow of obedience sufficiently
elastic to do what they pleased without appearing
to break the letter of it. What, then, may we ex-
pect them to do with the promise to “ comfort ” ?
Each will act according to her own idiosyncrasy.
But we may make up our minds that the meaning
will be her own comfort 1 As thus—she wishes to
go to a ball, and she knows tha„ her husband dis-
LOUIS, THE MAD KING OF BAVARIA.
Louis, who was drowned in a pond some weeks ago, has been succeeded on the
Bavarian throne by another madman, Otto, who is trying to starve himself to death.
approves of balls. She also knows that if Bhe asks
his permission he will refuse it and that she will
get mad and tell him that he is a tyrant, reproaoh
nim with his change of conduct since the days of
their courtship, threaten him with her mother,
refer 1n sneering terms to the number of dresses
she has had in her married, as oompared with what
she had in her single days, and finally wind up by
going to the ball anyway. She knows that it
would bo great comfort to him not to hear all this
and—goes off without asking him. The masculine
mind would probably call this conduct casuistical,
but the feminine conscience wftuld hold it to be
strictly permissible, and even virtuous. There is a
nice time in store for young men about to marry.
Thank the gods we have planted the memorial
shells of affection upon the grave of our third, and
—ne more for us I
For years religionists hare cherished the
story of Queen Victoria’s having told the envoy
of a dusky potentate who was desirous of knowing
the reason of England’s greatness, that the Becret
lay in England’s devotion to the Bible. Alas and
alack! we have the word of Sir Henry Ponsonby
—the same Sir Henry who conveyed to Jubilee
Young, of Sydney, the Queen’s thanks for his
congratulations on the forty-ninth anniversary of
her accession—that the anecdote has not a grain
of truth in it A Sussex gentleman wrote to the
Castle on the subject, it appears, and in reply the
Queen’s right-hand mao, by one stroke of the pen,
showed that the favourite Sunday-school story is
merely the product of the imagination, and has no
foundation in truth. If things go on in this hor-
rible way, there will be nothing left for us to
believe in soon.
ELere is another melancholy proof of the
weakness and depravity of human nature. The
real genuine converted Chinee, who paraded at
the head of the Salvation Army in Bogolong
parades no longer, ana now that town has not got
the bulge on any other portion of the globe. The
conversion was not so deep in as it might be, and a
big chunk of old Adam still clung to that heathen
Chinee, in spite of his knee-drill and other reli-
gious exercises. Jimmy Ah Chow, after a spasm
of outward piety, started a campaign on his own
Celestial hook, and rapidly gravitated in the direc-
tion of rum. When last observed, after lowering
down several inches of the local tanglefoot, he
could just articulate: “ Bime by, allee same get
long’em pen’tent form, save ’em again, good as
ever. You shout lum ?” And the pride and glory
of the Gobolong Salvation Army—to whom
Jimmy was as the billy-goat to the Soudan Con-
tingent-staggered off to lay in a larger stock of
rum and subsequent repentance.
The Jubilee of Sewage.
The public health seems to be carefully studied
n Sydney. At Forest Lodge, a road and a plateau
—the latter, presumably, to be used as a founda-
tion for dwelling-houses—are being made with
eight feet of nightsoil, ashes, dead cats, dogs,
fowls, and pigs, and miscellaneous garbage, all
cemented together with typhus and Bmall-pox,
and disguised by six inches of earth on top. This
rubbish is said to be brought in Corporation carts,
and dumped down in its present situation under
the direction of Corporation savagery. Dr. Ash-
burton Thompson, who has inspected the place,
reports that the use of the land for building pur-
poses should be rendered a criminal offence, but
we presume it will be built upon none the less,
and then the owner will go into Parliament, be-
come a churchwarden, and die of drain-fever,
respected by all who knew him. A great many
people, no doubt, wonder why such things should
have been permitted so long, but the explanation
Is simple: the chief municipal authorities who
gorge themselves at civic banquets and go mad on
the question of bull-headed imperialism, appear to
oare not one solitary jubilee curse whether people
are murdered by this atrocious system or not.
When the noxious and offensive Trades’ En-
quiry Commission was sitting in the early part
of 1883, Alderman (now Mayor) Young gave
evidenee that would have shocked the finer
feelings of a Hottentot, and made even a Kim-
berley nigger feel bad. The following ques-
tions and' answers will give a slight idea of the
civic esteem for that cleanliness which in Sydney
comes next to perdition:—“Dr. Mackellar: ‘Can
you tell us whether the Municipal Council exer-
cises any control over the noxious business of
nightmen?’ Mr. Young:‘Well, they ought to.’ Dr.
Maokellar: ‘ Have they any powers with regard to
it ?’ Mr. Young: ‘lt Is one of those thiogs that they
ought to do, but unfortunately they have no place
to put the nightsoil.’ . . . Dr. Mackellar:‘Where
do they put it ?’ Mr. Young: ‘That Ido not know.’
. . Mr. Fremlin: ‘You (meaning, we sup-
pose, not Mr. Young individually, but the
Corporation) *do not care whom you injure so
long o* you get rid of itV Mr. Young: ‘J So.’
Dr. Mackellar: ‘The men engaged in this business
of removing the nightsoil carry it on, I suppose,
for their own sakes as cleanly as they can V Mr.
Young: ‘ I cannot say.’ Dr. Mackellar: ‘ Do not the
Corporation see that it is done properly—is there
no officer of the Corporation who has anythiag to
do with it?’ Mr. Young: ‘ I have never heard of
one.’ ” Up to this point, it will be observed, Jubi-
lee Young knew nothing, but the next question
elioited the first item in his store of know-
ledge, and his knowledge proved to be
considerably more filthy and malodorous than
his former dense ignosance. Mr. Young’s sewage
lore may be summed up thus: There is noplace
near Sydney to deposit offensive refuse, and, con-
sequently, it is dumped down “surreptitiously;”
“ I have heard of it being thrown by the side of a
road,” added the witness, apparently as calmly as
if he were merely asking the Commission to have
a jubilee driak; avast quantity of refuse is de-
posited in cesspits, the suburbs being even worse,
in this respect than the city; three-fourths of the
sewers run into the harbour, and at Darling Har-
bour, Dawes Point, and Woolloomooloo Bay the
place is saturated with sewage-matter. Mr. Young
next admitted that the sewerage was proba-
bly at times more deadly than the system
connected with noxious trades of the city,
but he suggested no remedy, and then he
drifted off into a number of disagreeable
disclosures about slaughter-houses and boil-
ing-down establishments, which served to show
how many horrible things one alderman could
know without his appetite being spoiled thereby.
Before his evidence was finished he proved con-
clusively that Sydney takes the cake for filth
among the great citias of the world, and that the
citizens are pre-eminent among the unsightly
crowd who regard dirt with pig-llke complacency
as an unavoidable condition of things. The N.S.W.
metropolis is qualifying to the best of its
ability for a visitation worse than the
cholera or the Black Death, and when the visita-
tion comes, if Providence can aim straigh enough
to hit a pup with a hop-bitters bottles, the “oity
fathers ” will be among the first to go. After that
It will be time enough for the skeleton with the
soythe and hour-glass to look after the rest of the
dirty saints of Australia. When some fearful
pestilence reaches us there will, of course, be
weeping and wailing and prayer, and days set
apart for national humiliation, and good men will
inform us that It is a judgment because of too
much sin and too little psalm and collection-plate,
and bad men will get drunk and die drunk, but
none of those who whoop up the Bible-gang in
times of peace are likely to tell the honest truth—
that the pestilence is from the sewers below in-
stead of from the heavens above. And, for our
part, when that time comes, as it inevitably will
unless a great reform is made, we will kneel down
amidst piles of unburied corpses and rejoice that
the only event which could inculcate cleanliness
in Sydney has oome to pass, and that our civio
apostles of filth stand a chance at last of being
hastily removed to a land where cleanliness is
reokoned of more account than jubilee.
The O’Sullivan.
< MR /h E m^-°’ SULLIVAN ' member f or Queanbeyan
in the N.S.W. Assembly, a pencil-sketch of whom
appears on the first page of this week’s Bulletin
is, in many respects, a very remarkable man. He
has helped to run more newspapers, has led more
political reform agitations, and delivered more
democratic exhortations than any other man who
ever looked upon the Southern Cross. He was
born in Launceston, Tasmania, but an early love
of adventure prompted him to emigrate to South
Australia when only three weeks old. Subse
quently he returned to his native land and served
his apprenticeship as a printer in the office of the
Hobart Mercury. At the expiration of hisap-
P" en * l ® eBhi P he viBlted Sydney, where he remained
till 1870, when he returned to Tasmania at the
mature age of 30, started the Tasmanian Tribune
which flourished under the auspices of its founder!
and sold out in 1873. Mr. O'Sullivan then went to
Melbourne, organized a co-operative company,
and started another paper, the Evening Tribune
which did not enjoy a very prosperous career,,
for it faded quietly out of existence when
it had completed its thirteenth month. As editor
of the St. Arnaud Mercury, Mr. O'Sullivan took
a strong hand in the agitation which ended in the
triumph of the Berry party in 1877; and the victory
of J. L. Dow, now Minister for Lands in Victoria
was in great part owing to the influence of this
paper and its editor. Mr. O Sullivan returned to
Melbourne in 1879, and was immediately elected to
the presidency of the local Typographical Society,
where his aggressive genius found lots of scope
and led to several useful social innovations in
matters pertaining to the craft. In 1881 Mr
O'Sullivan returned to Sydney, and has been act-
ing the part of a Democratic agitator ever since.
He was the founder of the Democratic Alliance
an organisation which at one time threatened to
raise political Cain, but ultimately was not Able.
Co-operating with Mr. Heydon, the O’Sullivan was
instrumental in founding the Land and Industrial
Alliance, under whose auspices the conference of
1855 was held, when Land Reform, Protection, and
Payment of Members were adopted as the present
objects of N.S.W. Liberalism. In 1883 Mr. O’Sullivan
stood for West Sydney, but the joint efforts of the
living and the dead were too much for him, and
he suffered a defeat, repeated in South Sydney at
the last general election. Better fortune met him
at Queanbeyan, for which constituency he occu-
pies a very safe seat. He is a prominent figure in
the Assembly, where his uncompromising attitude,
vigorous, if not elegant, oratory, and quosi-pugl!
listio appearance and determination, earn him a
considerable amount of respect. At present he
is agitating about a lot of reforms, especially of
shipping abuses, which are under investigation
by a committee of which he is chairman. He is
about 35 years of age, and may be roughly de-
scribed as a combination of Samuel Plimsoll,
Cicero, John L. Sullivan, and Caius Gracchus. He
is the kind of man whom one would rather be
fighting with than against, which is more than
can be said for the majority of members in the
New South Wales Assembly.
Thus a London writer “ Prince Albert
Victor, it appears, is not much smarter at trout-
fishing than he is at other things he attempts. The
nation would like to know what this young man
can do, and it is really important that it should
have proof of his ability in some direction, as in
the ordinary course of things he will be King of
England later on. His Boyal Highness would be
an ornament to a draper’s counter, but as to
whether he would equally adorn a throne we have
our doubts.”
At Cooma (N.S.W.) when anyone steals an
egg. or shifts a howling midnight dog with a half-
brick, the local paper is invariably equal to the
occasion A Cooma settler was, the other day,
feloniously deprived of half a loaf, and, after
ascribing the act to ‘‘an organised gang”—of
brigands, we presume—the Express tears its free
ana enlightened shirt over the incident aad says:
‘ Sheltered by the almost inaccessible, hideous
solitudes of stupendous mountains and forests
primeval, they fear not the prying eye of that
inexorable funcionary-our senior constable,”
Prom this it is evident the gang fled into the
wilderness with the half loaf. If Cooma had been
a sea-port they would no doubt have carried the
plunder on board their blood-stained bark, and
then started on a wild buccaneering cruise oyer
the raging main.
When the Queen opened the Holloway
College for Women, the service in the college
chapel was, curiously enough, addressed rather to
the Queen than to God, a state of things that the
Archbishop of Canterbury apparently saw no im-
propriety in whatever. Th prayer beseeching
Heaven’s patronage of the institution followed
the ode complimenting Her Majesty. “This upside-
down arrangement,” says a home paper, “shocked
nobody, for the reason, perhaps, that scarcely a
soul pretended to pay the least attention to any-
thing, except the elaborate decorations of the roof
and walls of the chapel, and the bald head of the
Duke of Connaught, which a number of ladies ap-
parently took the greatest interest in, most of
them knowing, no doubt, that early sparseness of
hair is a mark of godly living. The Duke, all un-
conscious of the attention that was being bestowed
upon him, was staring upwards in rapt contem-
plation of the florid pourtrayal of ‘ The Creation
of Eve,’ that lady being represented as a plump
and pleasing person, with limbs of alarming pro-
portious. This same artistic effort was a matter
of some uneasiness to the Archbishop, who re-
garded it disapprovingly upon his entrance. The
chapel being intended for the use of women, the
picture will prove harmless, but it would have a
most distracting effect upon any males who at-
tended to worship there.”


“ Suspension ” to the eminent lawyer
means a much needed holiday in Europe.
Six months, after all, seems short enough,
To one of his clients—say a
book-keeper, whose accounts have
gone crooked —suspension may
mean something entirely different, i
Mr. Coonan (to one of his constituents): “ Re-
Nsign my seat in Parliament ? No, sir! lam not;
[so soft a 3 that. Why, I should never be re-
elected in the world ! ”
Piiatphees (to client);: “ Well, I
seem to have g6t everything I
possibly can out of you, unless—•
unless I have you boiled down 1”
At a meeting of the
friends of Mr. W, T.
Coonan, M.P.—who
w-as recently sus-
pended from practising
as an attorney of i
the N.S.W. Supreme
• Court—it was pro*
p6sed to present him
with a testimonial. By o
all means ! The tes- ?
iimonial should taka
the appropriate form
of a purse—to hold
sovereigns.
We don’t go quite so
far as to say that Mr.
Coonan should be sus-
pended once for all.
THE CASE OF MB. W. T.
COONAN, M.r.
following has been handed to ns fof
publication “ A meeting of friends and ajnj*
pttbiaera pt }ir. Walter T. Coonan, M.P., vrsa
held in the Oxford Hotel, King-street, ye*peS»
day afterpoou nt •J.'IO o’clock. There a good
attendance. A vote of confidence was passed
unanimously in My. Coonan both as a faw/et
and citizen, snd gentlemen present fzpressqd
their opinion in so far as the Pencil
declared there was no intent on his part tp
defraud, the punishment awarded was excessive
and that a reprimand would have sufficed, seeing
that tb£ case at the roost was one of pure
«jgbt. It was proposed and carried ttytf j
banquet be tendered biro,and that a subscription-
list be opened with a view to presenting him
ijith a testimonial ns a mark of the con,-,
tinned confidence t and esteem of bia fpliory-
citizeof ; an 4 a deputation app ointe4 to vrt;j*
ou Mr. Ceqnan and lay before him the desires nf
the meeting. The deputation forthwith waited
ou Mr. Ceonan ; and the bon. member for
Forbes, while yxpreesiug the de£p satisfaction
he felt at this mark of confidence, esteem and
friendly feeling evinced towards him, for which
be vs 3 very grateful, declared that he owed it
first to his constituents to account to them
hi* action. They had placed him in the
ajble* position he occupied, and he felt sure Uj
friends in Sydney would rightly interpret hla
feeiings when he said he must first submit biqs-
•elf to them. No matter wbat their fcqlift
iplght be (although he entertained no ape#* •
bmi on that account), bo felt sure bis Irienda
in Sydney would staud true to him and
acquit htjn of any wrongful motif?.
The deputation assured Mr. Coonan 4-.,!
he had exactly interpreted the feelings ai
those present and of who had comnu#«
stoned thorn to wait on him. No matter what
the-varJict of bis constituents might b:>, tb.r
among whom ha had grown and labored sull
di-iingn:-had himself would always continue
their hearty and implicit confidence in hina.
Mr. Coocan exprrssed his heart felt thanks for
tbs kindness evinced toward., him, and his full
contidenco in the result of Lis appeal to his
constituents. Tbe deputation then reported to
the full meeting, and an opinion was expressed
that Mr. Coonan was acting in %
further and fully justified their confidence la
him. The meeting agreed to await Mr. Coonan'*
appeal to his constituent*, ami then meet again
to decide what further steps should he taken,’ 1
fl How diH>rrally do tlift irt-
nocant little' nets of (.'on*** appear"
wlier. viewed from tip l standpoint of true
charity. At the worst liis trilling error
in charging item by item for consulting
counsel who was never consulted,'onl
naming n counsel as adviser who waa
never applied to for advice, was, say hi*
sympathisers, a “ pore oversight.” Tho
punishment awarded bv tlia Court for
so venial an oftcnci was, they .unani-
mously decided, an “ cxocssivo ” one,
worthy only of tlie darkest ages of
judicial savagery. And then having
dono justice in this way to a much-
wronged and cruelly-persecuted man;
tlie meeting proceeded as far as ii
could to undo the wrongs of tyrannic
law by resolving to invite the unjustly-
treated Coonan to a public banquet. T{
was also determined to open a pnblie
subscription-list to give tiic whole com-
munity an opportnnity of suitably ox-
pressing its veneration for profossionot
purity ns repiesentod by Mr. Coonan.
Help the Blind.
FRIENDS AND SYMP ATIISERS (lot.): "WE CAN SEE NOTHING BLACK ABOUT THIS. MU. COONAN YOUR HAND IS AS WHITE AS THE DRIVEN SNOW[?]"


SOCIAL
H. E. and Lady Canngton were present
at the first representation of “ The Great Divorce
Case,” on Saturday, the 21st inst. They were
accompanied by the Hon. John Birins', and
attended by Captain Wallington, P.C. Lady Car-
ington was very becomingly dressed in a light
gown of Indian tussore, trimmed with laoe. She
held a very beautiful bouquet in her hand, the
gift of the management. The house was crowded
in every part. H. IS. draws better than locomotive
engines. The dresses worn by the ladles were
mostly cut low—so busts were in plenty, and bare
arms—some rather red—ln great profusion The
pieoe itself consisted chiefly of the old busi-
ness of broad allusions and embarrassing situa-
tions-the gentleman in the lady’s boudoir busi-
ness—Lonsdale positions—outraged husband, &c.—
but there was one new thing, and It was in a
gentleman’s feet being put under the lady’s dress
and made to appear like her own. At first he suc-
ceeded, until a detective saw the fraud- you can’t
take in a deteotive; and as the lady’s dress rose,
the house came down. It was altogether a deli-
cate and well thought out situation, and likely to
beoome popular in “ society.”
* * ♦
Some of the Victorian bigwigs took part
in a new and original farce last week. The per-
formance was none the lets side-epittting because
its fun was unintentional. His Excellency the
Gov., with Lady Loch, the two little Lochs, the
Ministry, and a myriad of minor lights, went down
to Footeoray to launch the new screw-steamer
‘‘Lady L eh.’ The building of this boat-the
largest yet turned out from a Victorian dockyard
—has caused a good deal of delirium; her launch-
ing was to ne a function of exceeding brilliancy.
But the Fates were unSmd. In the first place,
the intended ceremony had the weather " agin it ”
Secondly, the boat whioh conveyed a distinguished
company down the Yarra, kept sticking in the
mud. But worst of all, the grand sorew-«teamer
“Lady Loch’’ refused to be coaxed into the
water. Little Miss Loch was told off for the lead-
ing part. With papa and mamma looking, 01 so
proud and happy, the young damsel duly touched
a button, and waited for the vetsel to slither down
the slips. In vain. The shipwrights used bad
language in a low tone, little Miss Loch looked
distressed, Master Loch sniggered derisively, the
Governor and his Lady tried not to appear ridicu-
lous, the Ministry darkly hinted that “ the
Russians were at the bottom of it”—but the good
ship “Lady Loch’ held her ground bravely. The
assembled population of Footscray began to make
merry at the expense of their Governor and his
satellites. “ What was to be the second part of
the programme?” said Sir Henry. Duncan
Gillies winked his eye, and cleverly simulated the
popping of a champagne-cork. ‘Exaotly,” said
his Excellency, “ If we can t have the launch, let
us at least have the launcheon ” The Ministry
doubled Itself up in counterfeited glee at the wit-
ticism, and the distinguished company betook
themselves to a marquee. There the dreary fizzle
was speedily forgotten under the influence of
sparkling fizz.
* * *
The Sydney Evening News records the
invention of “ a new covered salad-bowl, with
separate compartment for cucumber and onion,
whioh many people dislike mixed.” Which some-
how or other strongly reminds one of a modern
marriage, and looks like a cruel attempt to apply
the judicial separation and married women’s pro-
perty systems to the odoriferous onion and iis
bland and succulent mate.
V v *
“ Railway ” writes to inform us that
Despatohing-offlcer Stone, who was disabled in the
Cootamundra accident, and afterwards turned
adrift by the N.s. W. Government, was in the Postal
Department, not In the railway service, as reported.
Considering how few calls tae post officials nave
on their benevolence, tneir seeming utter neglect
of a helpless, suffering comrade reflects little
credit upon them as a body.
• * 0
The Masonio ball at Albury on Friday,
20th, was a wholes tie success. Visitors gravitated
thence from considerable distances within each
colony, and were eloquent of admiration concern-
ing the affair and its appointments.
* * *
The prioe of double tickets for the return
ball to Mayor Young has been fixed at 50j.—equal
to 199 beers and a tram fare to carry home an in-
toxicated jubilee eelebrator after drinking them.
A good many people are objecting to the charge,
and apparently think that Mayor Young is not
worth such a Croeiian outlay.
* * *
The officers of the Nelson give a danoe on
board on September 2nd, from 2 30 p.m. to 5.33 p m.
* • *
The engagement is announced of the Rev.
8. Cailde, ot St. Thomas’, North Snore, Sydney,
to Mies Go d n, da igcter of Ho . AU-xander
Gordon, Q.C, who is now with his family in
Europe.
® * *
Mrs. George Kiss, Randwick. gave a ball
on 18th inet. to about 180 guests. The ball-room,
whion is new, was most tastefully decorated wit
ferns and flowers. The dresses wars, as a rul?,
tasteful, a trained gown of black ve.vct with
fig-coioured satin petticoat and handsome neck-
lace was greatly admired.
* * »
The Manly Assembly, on 18th inst., was in
every way a pronounced success.
« v *
On the 20th inst. the Woollabra Assembly
came off at Need’s rooms. The number of guest*
present was much smaller than usual, which con-
tributed to the comfort ot the dancers.
* • «
Mrs. Clara Thomas, of Sydney, who has
just been allowed to retire for six months from
the public gaze for getting various things on false
pretences, is as nice as they make them, and
pretty enough to smile a bird off a tree. But ’twas
ever so. Ail the women who have deceived us
were pretty.
* * *
Taree (N.S.W.) boasts a reverend brother
in tne flesa, who, like many of the black-coated,
black hatted h st, objects to dancing. A week or
two ago he received an invitation to a ball, and
on the ensuing Sunday he rose in the pulpit to
make a long cherubic protest against such sinful
amusementß, concluding thus: Unfortunately,
or fortunately, whichever way you like, my little
son (a mere infant) got the let er, and threw it into
tee fire, and when I saw him do it, I said I hoped
God would give him smsa in years to come to do
the same with ah such invitations.” This was a
cheap way of advertising the podgy little saint,
but we Should think a clerical imaut win has
taken to thieving and incendiary ways at so early
an age should h-v;- been spanked with a board
rather than held aloft, like Moses brazen serpent,
for public admiration.
* * *
On the 18th inst. the Woolioomooloo Row-
ing Club inaugural ’oali came off. There was only
a moderate attendance. The *iayor and some
naval oflicers were present. A pretty costume wa-
of pale blue satin panelled and puffed with amber
satin, with waterfall back of blue tulle.
Lord Carington will be present at the
openiag of the railway to Tenterfleld on the sth of
October. By the bye, a rather neat thing in scan-
dals come from that little town. It’s wonderful
how vice enters even the pure places of New
£ nd v pa I ta *»UBband and wife, or rather
Joins the husbands and wives of other people.
* * *
A “ ladies’ night ” conversazione is to be
Sr 1 a e sr ol l 2ad September, under the auspices of the
N.S.W. Art Society.
* * *
The N.S.W. Baseball Association held a
social ” at West'* Academy on Thursday night,
19 h last. About 100 persons were present. A
Pint dress covered with cream lace, looped with
ribbons, and another skirt, witn cream lace flowers
and a cardinal bodice, attracted particular atten-
tion.
* * *
The County of Cumberland Hunt Club
met on the afternoon of the 185 h inst. in Drake's
paddock, near the Ashfleld railway station. Seve-
ral ladles were present. The dangerous and
ferocious herring was driven to bay after a long
and exciting chase across country through Five
dook, Concord, and Homebush.
* * *
A correspondent writes to Thb Bc:lletiw
enquiring wnat has become of the subscriptions
raised for the testimonial to Captain David
Walker (late of the Cahors), and remarking that
no 1 st ot moneys received tor teat object has yet
been published.
u • •
The Botany Sooial and Kinking Society
a dar;ce at the Sir Joseph Banks’ Pavilion on
19th lost., which, despite heavy raiD, was attended
by about 70 persons.
* * *
The Londoners’ Club (Sydney) is defunot,
and a large number of the late members show
much deliberation In squaring accounts.
¥ * *
A Sunday paper, in its fashion notes, al-
ludes to the "dimpling shoulders" visible at a
Potts Point party the other evening. Next thing
will b« “dumpling faces.’’
* «’ *
A contemporary announces with much
gush that more than one A.D.C. was pre*ent at a
high-toned Darling Point soiree on the 12th, Poof!
Two ot ’em were at the theatre the other night,
with a couple of ooncert-hali vocalists.
* * *
On the 18th inst., H.E. the Governor gave
a dinner-party which included the Hon. J. Baring,
Mr. Loder, and other gentlemen, who afterwards
attended H.K. and Lady Carlngtonto Herr Kohler's
concert.
* * »
The marriage of Alderman Pearoe with
Miss Starkey, of Coogee, was solemnised at Bt.
Jude s Church. Randwiok. on the 18ch inst., by the
Primate, assisted by the Rev. Mr. Hough. The
otmroh was crowded in every part. A profusion
of flowers were scattered about the aisle, and the
wedding-presents were cestly as numerous. Moss
Yale is where the alderman took his bride to after
the ceremony.
* * *
Dr. L. L. Smith has reoeived marked notioe
at the hands of royalty in London. Can It be that
there were any of the young princes who " didn’t
feel well ? ” Perhaps Albert Yiotor, who never
did seem “ very well,’’ has been “ looking into his
heart and writing.”
* * *
The Sydney social oame off on the 17 th inst.
at West’s Rooms. Oaly about 80 persons turned up,
but they seemed to enjoy themselves. The hand-
somest dress in the room was one of white satin,
draped with white-spotted tul ! e and a large spray
of rosebuds, bodice out low, and large amber Batin
sash. A Tasmanian young lady was very beoom-
ingly dressed in sky-blue tulle and Brussels net.
Dancing.kept up as usual. The last ball of the
season will be held early in October.
¥ ¥ ¥
A bazaar in aid of All Saints’ Churob, Par-
ramatta, was opened in the Masonic Hall of that
town on Wednesday afternoon, the 11th. The
pretty show drew a large crowd of onlookers and
purchasers. Six well-stooiied stalls were presided
over by charming amateur saleswomen, who could
not be denied, and stern business men, as well as
frivolous mashers, were fleeced with refreshing
avidity. The church funds were considerably
augmented by the prooeeds of the affair, whion
was thoroughly successful from every point of
view.
¥ ¥ ¥
The concert given by Herr Kohler, on
Wednesday, 18th inst., was an undoubted success,
and was attended by Lord and Lady Carington,
followed by a long line of Captains. The
gem of the evening was Herr Kohler’s render-
ing of Liszt’s “ Rhapsodie Hongrolse.” The name
of the piece is painfully familiar to the sons of
temperance, and at first it looked like a neat “ ad."
to push the beverage. But it wasn’t, Liszt never
having b9en in the business.
¥ ¥ ¥
On 17th inst. a soiree musicale was held at
Paling's Concert Hail. The object of the soiree
was to give Madame Cecilia Summerhayes an op-
portunity of exhibiting her powers on the piaeo.
She played five pieces of representative music in
such a manner as to call forth well-merited ap-
plause.
* . * *
On the 18th inst. the Suburban Bicycle
Club gave a negro entertainment at Sydney Pro-
testant Hall Tnere was a large attendance. Comic-
ality was the rule— ou the p ogramme ; it was
ratber the exception oa tae stage. Tne programme
came to au end about 4 a.m.
¥ ¥ ¥
Ou the 18th inst. the band of the N.B.W.
Permanent Artillery, led by Bandmaster Gray,
piayed in the Sydney Botanic Gardens, in the
presence of a limited audience. The performance
was admirable, but the "fashion ” have not taken
this up yet. If Lady Carington would only tatte a
walk there occasionally it would be the means of
making the attraction eminently popular. At the
same time it would be well if some person were
placed in charge of the grounds to keep off dis-
orderly persons. On this occasion a negro thought
he would brighten the fun of the show and give
some of his own local colour by making a corner-
man of bimself. Tne crowd enjoyed him im-
mensely—he had justly gauged the tastes of a
Sydney musloal audience.
¥ ¥ «
A Kiandra gentleman has introduced a
pair of Canadian snow-shoes to the Ktandra
(N.8.W.) youths, who now swear by Beach that
th«y can lick Canadians at snow-shoeing as well as
sculling.
¥ ¥ *
The Hon. Mr. Baring, of Baring Brothers,
the London private bankers, is just now a guest at
Government House, Sydney. As an indica-
tion of the style in which Baring Brothers conduct
their affairs. It may be mentioned that Mr. Sturgis,
one ot the firm's partnere, had nothing to do but
entertain commercial magnates visiting London
for the transaction of business with tne house,
and for this he enjoyed a special allowance of ten
thousand a year!
A reminiscence of the ladiau and Colonial
ball at London Mansion House. Said an Indian
Princess to her cavalier:—‘ Your Lord Mayor is
wealthy, is he not? “He is reputed to be so.”
Then why does he permit his visitors to dance ?
In our country we hire people to dance for us,
and we look on.”
For two mortal hours on a recent after-
noon txcited thousand* were pushing, panting,
and perspiri g round the entrances to the Mel-
bourne Town Hail. Tin* side door in Collins-street
was besieged by a crowd that stretohed across the
pavement and far into the roadway. They were
mostly ladies, clad in apparel of surpassing new-
ness, and evidently bent on business. In short, the
Mayoress was holding a reception, and every other
woman in Melbourne was going to it. A super-
cilious cao-drivsr, waiting outside the To .vn Hall
for a fare, expressed much disgust at the show.
But then he didn’t understand These afternoon
recaptions are but skir is* * before the real
battle—the ball. The fair ladles who tumb'e over
one another in their anxiety to clutch the
Mayoress's fair hand, are touting for invitations to
the 'hop.” So far so good In the melee, how-
ever, is a handful of males This seems wrong. A
Mayoress of Melbourne’s reception should ba as
sacred to “ the sex” as Is a Queen’s drawing-room.
• * *
The Pioturesque Atlas Publishing Com-
pany of Australasia had a gala day on Monday
last, when. In response to invitations issued by the
directors, artists and literary rt*ff, a large and re-
presentative assembly of g.ieste gathered at the
oomoany s premises, Wynyrrd tqufir:, Sydney, to
inspect the splendid collection or drawings, maps,
and machinery. It Is, of course, unnecessary to
mention the fact that Lord and Lady Garington
were present: that Mr. Dailey made a speech—two
speeches. In fact, wnereof the extempore one was
considerably better than that which seemed
to have been prepared; and that everyone did
justioe to the elegant collation laid at Pfanlert’s In
honour of the occasion, It is likewise superfluous
to record that the oration of the day was made by
the accomplished and eloquent Mr. Alfred Bennett,
of the Evening News.
* * *
The rumour current that Mayor Young is
about to marry a wealthy and dashing Victorian
widow Is probably a Jubilee fabrication.
* * *
Mr. W. C. Payne, of Melbourne, is to be
married to an Asbfleld lady at St. John’s Church,
on the afternoon of 15th September.
■» * *
The officers of H.M.9. Nelson intend oale-
bratlng their return to “ Our Beautiful Harbour "
by giving a dance early In September.
* * *
“Eveleigh House,” Petersham, was the
locale of * Cinderella, enjoyed by about 60 guest*,
on r,he night of the 17ih lust,. The rausio was built
nut of two violins and a harp, and was In excellent
time. The hostels wore b)»ok satin duohesse, ana
displayed very handsome Jewellery; Miss Maiden
appeared in pale blue satin, which suited her to
perfection.
a a *
Mrs. Robert Tooth, of Darling Point, gave
a very successful dance on the 18th Inst. The
house was profusely decorated, and all the ar-
rangements were excellent, the suspended plat-
form for the band having a novel and pretty
•ffeot. Among the guests Lady and the Misses
Manning, Captain and Mrs. Bouverie, Mr. and Miss
Mitchell, Bir George and Lady Innes, Mr. and the
Misses Campbell, the Misses watt. Captain and Mrs.
Penrose, Mr. Laldley, officers or H.M.B. Nelson,
Captains Sherlffe and Terry, Lord Bertie, Mr.
Wellington, the Misses Knox, and many other
faces well-known in fashionable ciroles.
• * •
The Redfern Bicycle sports, which took
plaoe on Saturday the 20th Inst., passed off very
well and were fairly attended. The stind and lawn
were well filled, and those who did obtain seats, In
most instances kept them during the afternoon.
There was not anything very fresh In the wav of
dressss, though some wer remarkable for their
oolours, noticeably a bright golden-brown plush
mantle over a resrlet cashmere skirt. One young
lady, who strolled the lawn the whole afternoon,
and who wore light grey cashmere, made herself
conspicuous by wearing a sailor hat with the
S.B C oolours around it A ladylike frock was of
oardlnal cloth with a closely-fitting bodice, and
round hat to match. The band of the Naval
Brigade played selections during the afternoon.
* * *
The Woollahra, Private Assembly held
their monthly dance at Nlthcdale, Sydney, last
week. Many pretty and fresh gowns were notice-
able, the toilette of a recent bride being particu-
larly remarked; the material was auli-white-
oorded silk, with long perfectly slain train; the
front of the skirt having large pleats. Mrs. Birk-
myre wore white satin ana velvet; Mrs. C.
J. Roberts, handsome blactt; Miss Roberts, a very
becoming frock of white ll*se ere. ; Miss Dunnl-
oliffe, pale-pink surah ana tulle; M ss Hardie, very
handsome oardlnal satin ducaeese, prettily
trimmed, with white jetted lace; Miss C. Hardie,
a French gown of paie-pink satin, clouded with
pale-coffee orape and lacs, with ribbons of olive-
green velvet; Mlsi Unwin, white tulle, thickly
spotted with ied chenille tails; Miss M’Donall, in
white surah and lace. Special train was laid on
for the convenience of guests.
* * *
Monsieur Prere, of Albury, called together
a number of gentlemen la Sydney last week to
ta3te his oolonlal rrude champagm M. Frere has
persevered for 19 years in hU efforts to produoe
sparkling wines, and the results o the test showed
that he has succeeded, aud that Australians should
la the nsar future be independent of France for a
supply of these beverages. Among the judges
wore oir Patrick Jennings. Messrs. Lyne, Buttor,
Hammond, and others, including the Frenoh Con-
sul, and after a long experience of banquets,
Jubilee, political, and miscellaneous, the praise
accorded by these gentlemen should be accepted
a 3 proof positive of the excellence of M. Frere’s
productions.
e* % *
The U.alla Oddfellows processed, lea-
meetingei, and danced on the 13th inst. to cele-
brate their anniversary Half a hundred juve-
niles assembled at Harbour View, Paddington
(N.SW.) on the 18th. Dancing was continued till
2 a.m The majority of the guests wore fancy
dresses, but a few were in ordinary costumes....
Mr. A. Town entertained an assemblage of young
Eeople of Richmond (N.S W.) last week at a picnlo
ela on the common adjacent to that town—Mr.
0. H. Lvneta '.n entertained a number of friends at
Emerald Hill, Cook’s River, Sydney, on the 16th
Inst., to oolebrate the attainment of majority by
his eldest son. Amateur theatricals and dancing
constituted the programme The last of the
Bydner private assemblies will be held on'Friday,
the 27 ch inst.. and the last of the Cinderellss on
Tuesday, the 31)t Inst., both at N*ed s Rooms
A concert in aid of the Manly Cricket Club was
given on Tuesdiy nigkt, 17th inst, in the Oddfel-
lows' Hall, Manly. A large audience was present,
and toe singing of Miss Woods and her brother
was the success of the evening —On the 20;h inst.
the last but one of the Redfern (Sydney) sooials
took place at the local Town Hall A success is
reported The Primate opened a conversazione
ia connection with St. John’s Churoh, Gordon, on
the 20th last. Concerts were given eaoa evening
during the time it was open The Second Winter
Assembly at Tumut (N.B W.) on the 18th inst., was
good all round. Two ladies from Adelong in
white cashmere, and black net respectively, de-
serve special mention, and a Young lady (the
adjective has a double application), in zephyr
cloth, also merits that distinction Molong
(N.B.W ) Owl Club arranged a very enjoyable flrit
dance last week. Bupper was provided by the
lidles. In accordance with rural custom, danoiug
was kept up till breakfast time... Forbes Show
ball on Thursday, 19th inst, was about as nios as
th y can make them out there. Visitors came
even from Ballarat, the Bogan, and the distant
Sarcoo, and none were disappointed in their pre-
vious joyous expectancy. ..An epidemic of dances
is now ravaging the rural districts of N.S.W. Bega
was attacked by a plain and fanoy dress ball on
the 19r'o, aud the encounter scattered a spray of
ethereal delight all round. One gentleman went
as an Indian—he danced alone most of the evening.
Suppe. provided by the ladies was excellent; so
was the music, sometimes.... Mr. and Mrs. John
Hardie, ot oulsville, Darlinghurst, have issued
invitations for a young peoples’ dance, to be held
at their residence, on the second of next month.
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, Hunter-street
Sydney.*
B
RADLEY,
NEWTON,
LAM B,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
df
£* Q 5? PIANOFORTE,
3&00 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, frill Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
hell-street.
gd
Austrian chairs
ill Great VARIETY j
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
~Y\TALNUT TELESCOPE DINING ' TABLES,
TT with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
f
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
*VX7" ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
T V VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, NewtortjA
and Lamb.
■\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
-131 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’ Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
i
o
Drawing room"’cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BRA WING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
gdf
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
gd
BRADLEY, NEWTON 1 and LAMB.
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, _ best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.


The Timm want* to know 4 ‘ what we buy
from Amerloa.” Well, we get a lot of Ideas that
England can’t manufacture.
Among other items of interest at the ap-
proaching Bight-hour Demonstration will he the
Sheffield Handicap, which Is worth £6O and a gold
medal to the winner.
Mr. L. F. Heydon, at his meeting in
Sydney on Friday night, gave Protection a useful
lift. His retrospect of the phases of the fiscal
struggle was strong and effective. Four years ago,
when he entered parliamentary life, there was, as
he oleverly pointed out, no need for the contro-
versial labours of a Pulsford, nor for the fervid
oratory of Messrs. Reid and Wise, for Free-trade
was then the established and prevailing belief, but
now oven Sir Henry Parkes compares the situa-
tion of the Oobdenites to that of the old woman
who from her bedroom window waved impotent
deflanoe at Stonewall Jackson’s army. The simile
was well ohosen by Sir Henry, especially the old
woman part of it. A wondrous conversion has
been wrought during those four years, and a big
Share of the resulting credit is due to Mr. Heydoß,
and should be the more cheerfully aooorded on
aocount of the fleroe uphill battle he had to fight
in the cause of Proseotlon, and the violent, un-
measured abuse it was once his lot to bear for the
sake of the cause which seems now to be almost
won.
The stray Ministerial lamb has returned
to the fold, and Mr. Dibbs Is once more at peace
With his colleagues. Perhaps, however, it is hardly
fair to allude to the Colonial Secretary as a lamb
In this instance, for he answers more properly to
the designation of a tough old wether, but we do
not want to put his gristly qualities too promi-
nently before the public. Neither oan he be cor-
rectly described as a fatted o»lf, for unlike that
grass-fed animal in the parable he has tscsped
•laughter, however muoh he may deserve it, so he
must oontlnue to pass as a lamb for want of a bat-
ter term. So far, very little Is known, except that
the Prodigal Son of Politics has resumed his port-
folio, and whether he has caved in with regard to his
appointments in the statistical department, or
whether the Cabinet has withdrawn the obnoxious
minute which led to so much trouble, doesn’t
matter muoh. A series of explanations are said
to have been made, and probably It Is now under-
stood that all unpleasant remarks on either side
are to be taken In a purely Piokwickian sense, or
else that they were merely typographical errors
The question whether a Minister is j ustifled In mak-
ing a number of important appointments without
oonsultlng his oolleagues, is not likely to be settled
after all, for, If the law on this point Is laid down
In the Assembly, It will involve the neoessity of
admitting that some one has been in the wrong,
and as a result of this humiliation, either Mr. Dibbs
might again quit the fold, or if he has been the
winner he might grow unduly bumptious and en-
deavour to run the entire Government machine on
his own aooount. The public are, therefore, not
likely to receive any really reliable explanation,
and all that is known with certainty is that Mr.
Dibbs, after sulking for a while in his corner, has
oome out and is a good hoy once more.
« Editor Bulletin,— Sir— Thi Bulletin,
as all Australia knows, is opposed to the infliction
of the lash, and I claim that it speaks with the
voice of all genuine Australians. Tne average
narrow-minded politician, possessed of less brains
fhan a half-grown wombat, falls to understand
that the lash not only degrades and brutalises the
■wretch who reoeives the punishment, hut
brutalises and degrades the whole community.
Now, sir, I wish The Bulletin to know, I wish
Australia to know, and I wish the world to know,
that Sir Patrick Jennings, at Coonamble, In Octo-
ber last, when seeking re-election, denounced this
odious clause of the N.S.W. Criminal Law Consoli-
dation Aot,and promised to use his Influence in hav-
ing it erased from the Statute Book. On that occa-
sion, in reply to questions put by me as an elector
of the Bogan, Sir Patrick saidl do not consider
that the flogging clause of the Criminal Law Con-
solidation Act is ‘ necessary or essential to the
well-being of the community.’ lam and always
was opposed to the infliction of corporal punish-
ment. I opposed the clause when It was before
Parliament. The lash Is a relic of barbarous ages
-a standing disgrace to this ooiony-and If elected
I will use my Influence to have the flogging clause
swept from our statute-book.’ I am not and never
have been a political admirer of Sir Patrick Jen-
nings, but though hostile to him I considered, and
still consider, that his views on this particular
subject are both manly and Christian-like, and
■ought to be widely known. Now Is the time to
remind Sir Patrick Jennings of his promise, and
now is the time he la in a position to fulfil that
lpromise.—Yours truly, A. J. M‘Coobt, Trangle,
Aug. 21.”
The are between 70 and 80 ex-students of
the N S W. Training-school at present “ tempo-
rarily” employed in the schools of the colony.
The majority of these are temporary assistants in
the city and suburban schools, and have been in
the service of the Department of Public Instruc-
tion for periods varying from five to seven years.
Many of them entered the service as pupil teachers
lathe country districts. The authorities appear
to admit that the salaries paid to pupil teachers are
insufficient for their support, and require the
parents or guardians of every pupil teacher to
guarantee to support them during the pupil-
teacher term. After four years spent in this capa-
city, they are admitted to the Training School, and
on leaving that Institution, are recommended
for certain classifications. These •MUtotfg-
■entitle them to salaries ranging from £l6O to £260
per annum. But the department, Instead of ap-
pointing them to the positions to which their
■classifications entitle them, employs them as
temporary assistants for indefinite periods, and
■makes to them while thus employed “an allow-
ance” varying from £7 to £lO per month.
The teachers of the schools to which they are
••temporarily” appointed are tofurnisu monthly
reports on their general conduct, and they ara to
maintain discipline without appealing to corpora 1
punishment. Dissatisfied with their status, these
ex-students held a meeting, at which they decided
to lay their grievances before the Minister. Tnls
revolutionary conduct has caused quite a storm
amongst the highly-paid officials of the depart-
meat, who regard the conduct of the temporary
staff as "a menace to the department and a breaoh J
of its discipline.” Of course, it never entered into I
their simple minds to see that as long as the de-
partment oaa retrenoh by making its assistants I
work for half-pay, the largo-salaried men will get I
oft soot free. The only thing the officials object to I
is that the ex-students did rot go the right way to I
work. This is the right way for them to get their
grievance redressed: A petition embodying their
oomplaints should have bee a sent to Mr. Inspector
Morris or Mr. Inspector Thompson. Either of
these gentlemen would pt ss the oommunloation ]
on to Mr. Dlstriot-Inspect >r M‘Oredie. It would
then be sent on to Mr. Deputy-Chief-Inspeotor
Bridges; from him. to the Chief Inspector, Mr.
Maynard; Mr. Maynard would pass it on to Mr.
Johnson, the Under-Secretary, and he, if he
thought necessary, would submit the matter to the
Minister. Whether Doctor Renwiok will reoeive
the deputation or not remains to be seen.
The Perth (Western Australia) Inquibes
says:—“ The first time that Sir Henry (then Mr.)
Wrenfordsley had aboriginal native prisoners
brought before him as Chief Justice of the colony
fer trial, he emphatically expressed his shocked
surprise at seeing the poor wretches placed in the
dock chained together like so many wild beasts.”
BEFORE AND AFTER.
“ Will you have a plate of loecream, dear?” be
asked. r ‘ No, thank you, I never eat cream in the
winter,” she sweetly replied. " Well, do try a dish
of those delicious Oysters, won't you, pet, ’ be
continued. "No, Alfred, they are„ so dear.’; * I
thought I was the only thing that wss dear.' Oh,
Alfred I must go home.” “lam vd sorry,” he said.
•‘Oh, pst, I know what you want. Let me order a
bottle of that famous St. Louis L»g?r Beer?’
Her beautiful blue eyes lighted up. Just a tint of
orimson appeared upon her loveiy faoe. When
she could breath easy, she said, “ Oh, Alfred, do.”
Wolfe's Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican. Accept no other.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, In respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, whioh is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one oall, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Marie Brizard 1 Marie Brlzard! Marie Brlzard!
Wolfe'S Schnapps taken three times a day
will make a different man of you.
ITOHI ITCH! ITCH!
80RATCH! SCRATCH! SCRATCH!
—Every species of itohiug humours, baker's,
barber’s, grocer's washerwoman’s itoa, itching
piles, and delicate irritations peculiar to both sexes,
instantly relieved by a warm bath with Cttticuba
Soap and a single application of Cuticura, the
great skin cure. This, repeated dally, with two or
three doses of Coticora Resolvent, thi new
blood purifier, to keep the blood Cool, the bowels
open, and the liver and kidneys active, will
speedily and permanently cure itohlng tortures of
the skin and scalp that have defied the best medi-
cal skill and all known remedies.
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
Win# I—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Wolfe's Schnapps, certified by the medical pro-
fession as the purest spirit procurable
Tne worst of cremation is that some winter
morning, in a fit of philanthropy, your widow's
second husband may empty your ashes on the icy
pavement for the benefit of pedestrians, and say
that fellow would still be living if he had drersed
in the stylish and well-fitting £3 3s. suits to measure
cut by the eight high-olasa enters of Summerflsld
and Company, merohant tallow, 235 an! 337 Pitt-
street, Sydney .*
The world-renowned tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Sohnappst
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces abteonders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally
Letters written. The most Absolute tecrecy ob-
served. Note the address: —313 George-street,
second floor.*
There is no reoruiting medioine so prompt
and efficient as Wolfe’s SohnappV
WHAT TO WEAR. , ,
The elegant-fitting, splendidly-made, high-class,
three-guinea Suits to measure, of Summerfleld and
Company. Eight cutters employed. This is the
premier establishment for tailoring and boys out-
fits. Ladie3 we can delight you with some of our
Spring shipments. Splendid M*n-o'-War Salts
(knickers) Bs. 111; long trouser suits in our cele-
brated “wear-resisting”fabric)at 18s 61.. and 2ls.
Summerfleld and Company, merchant tailors, 335
and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Marie Brizard! Marie Brlzard I Marie Brizard C
A cheering cordial for the despondent.
Wolfeis Schnapps,
"I only took it as a joke,” said a prisoner who
was arraigned at Darlinghurst the other day for
stealing an overcoat. ** How favdid you carry it?
asked the judge. ‘‘Only to Parramatta, your
Honor,” “That was carrying the joke too far.
Six months.” The owner discovered the ooat
through the brand on the back of the celebrated
tailors, Summerfleld and Company, 235 and 337,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Don’t be put off with any fiotitious brand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is the genuine article.
The poet, Cowper, in reply to some con-
gratulatory lines he sent a friend received this
reply: “Deer Sir,-I got yourn pottery. Our
skulemaster says the toils of the g s and the tops
of the h's be onregularel” Pothooks and hangers
would have been nearer this critic s capabilities
than poetry, and we think he would be equally
able in judging the merits of pottery. The decora-
tions of the lovely fruit-services, banqueting-
servloes, toilet-sets, and vases showing at the
shops 402 and 404 George-street would get scant
justice at such hands, and the efforts of the pro-
prietors, Me are. Bray Bros., in introducing really
artistio pottery in the colony would soon oease.*
Marie Brizard 1 Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard I
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
MORE LIGHT
TO-VIGHT (THURSDAY), TO-NIGHT,
PROTESTANT HALL, Cast ereagh-street.
iIX NIGHTS DEBATE,
bet ween
XIHOF. GEORGE CHAINEY. from America
XT the celebrated ORATOR and SPIRITUALIST
LECTURER, and
MR. W. W. COLLINS,
the well-known Secularist Lecturer.
SPIRITUALISM versus MATERIALISM.
PROPOSITION FOR TO-NIGHT:
“ That the facts of Modern and Ancient Spiritual-
ism and other Psychic Phenomena ma&e bellel In
Immortality both Rational and Scientific Mr.
Chainey affirms; Mr. Collins den : es.
DONT FORGET— THURSDAY EVENINGS,
August 19,26, September 2,9,16, 23.
Admission, 25., Is., and 6d.
Doors Open 7.30* Commeccs at 8 p.m*
REMEMBER, TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
THE NEW FURNITURE l CARPET
WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
NEAR HUNTER STREET,
known as
POMEROY HOUSE.
JOBES. LAWSON BROS., & CO.
* INVITE INS P ECTION
of
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK
OF
CABINET AND UPHOLSTERY FURNITURE,
Carpets, Curtains, Rugs,
FLOORCLOTHS,
BEDSTEADS & BEDDING,
OFFICE FURNITURE, &c., &c.,
All of which are marked in
PLAIN FIGURES,
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
Out-door Auction Sales Conducted. Inventories and Valuations made
HORDEaRM ’&
ON THB
Brickfield. Sill-
hb stay add corset befabtur.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/(?
c c
VJL
k
*'o
uO
7
7^
73
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND BPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid,. 3a 3d„ 3«. 9d„ 4s. 6d.. 4s. lid., ss. 6d„ 6s, 6d„ 7s. 6d., Bs. 8d„ 9e. 3d., 10b. 6d., 12b er
EDWARD HORDED AN 6 OHS. 666 and 668 Bnckfela Hill
yfJß.—Order* from the Country will receive immediate and earetul attention.


ARTHUR MARTIN <£ COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, ROUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon 1b the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &0., from the Southern
.Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Quean,
H.R.H. the Prince of Wates.
H.H the King 01 the Netherlands .
»
H./.M. the Czar\of Russia.
jfcganta tor JN*>w *outu Wales j
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
DolOreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
)
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can he seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS, \
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the rery best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
BRAUN.
H ERV
TREATMENTS
Dr. E C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous .Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting m
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death. Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
Treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
>4a nt. dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
tostiveness. we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable
Ajllh when the directions are strictly complied with. Ihey
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Bent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
■w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
"Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Braises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Bore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application,
Bold by ad Chemists and Dealers.
Pride, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., SOLE PROPRIETORS,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
TO BUCH FOR ONE BITE.
BEGGINS (who has just raid off a cabby): “INFERNAL CHEEKY CABMAN. BAIJOVE. I
THOUGHT HE WOULD HAVE BITTEN MY EAR OFF, BECAUSE I WOULDN’T
GIVE HIM DOUBLE FARE.”
MUGGINS: “BITE YOUR EAR OFF NOT HIM, BUG GTNS, RE HASN’T ENOUGH JAW.”
Merle Brizardl Marie Bdztrd! Marie Brizardl
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Maria Br'zwdl Marie Brizardl Marie Brzardl
Do not impose upon your customers by substi-
tuting an imitation forthereaJ Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Purify the blood, cleanse the stomach,
and sweeten the breath with Hop Bitters. Ameri-
can Co ’a only genuine. R«ad
Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl
A cordial the marvel and admiration of the
world— Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizirdl Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard!
Wolfe’s Schnapps for liver and kidney com*
plaints.
OH, MY BACK!
That lame baok is caused by! kidney disease.
Stop it at once by Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver;
Bitters.
Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard!
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
Consult Dr. Boyd, Pomeroy Chambers, 39 Castlereagh
street (upstairs), Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Regis-
tered Physician of New South Wales. Office hours: 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Paralysis, deformities, nervous, and female
diseases a speciality. Box 120 G.P.O.*
Itis agooa thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps in the house.
u
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
His
V'/
Scrofula on Neckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disecrjee of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
CtiTictrßA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood"
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICTTRA RESOLVENT, the aew Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Shin and Sc: tip of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, an*d Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
i$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug ft Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUBIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
DIRE Cl SUPPLY AUO £I AT lON
IS NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, BO per cent, less than
Sydney prices,
Dlreot from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/8, 5/0, 7/6, 9 0. 12/0. 17/0, 21/-, 28/, 80/.
4 5/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
o
A
ACCORDEONB
Specialty: The miniature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. IS/-, 20/-, 2S/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciaty: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORN - TS, *•'- so ';i UH. 1 ™- ls# -
Specialties: The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with elide-head, in case, by
best English maker ... 50/-
THE SYSSPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ "Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, flageolets,
Drums, Gui'ars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jtv’sißmttaUOim
MUSIC I MUSIC ! ! MUSIC I I 1
200,000 CoDies New and Popular Music, published
at 3-, 4 1 , and 55., sold a: 91. per copy.
£ R WORTH OF
*0 MUSIC FOR ‘
▲ll instruments careful, acked and forwarded
terany part of the Dies
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Managb*.


IP>
O?\tl0
e.O
05
Hit
fO5
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS,
DOES
FROM
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGEMT
a«BBS*s.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and oan
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free frem any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS' ES&ENCB OF TTRB
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of SO Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.
B. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grooers and Storekeepers at SI. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B.'ProSSer
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker.
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Blixabtth
Street, Redfern.
Xj3.aa.ean. Q-loss
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly reoommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—" TONIC NERVINE.’*
ASaF*. CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE tor Ner-
toub and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, aa Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour te the whole system.
IMce, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere. Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney, N. S. W. ;
London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
JJ OLLOWAY'S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and BTO MACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London
JI3&~ Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 633 Oxford-
itreet, London, they are spurious.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ami fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd fl sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate fern ties, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion,"Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcases thatwill not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites iB most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lcesitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest val xe in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
YOU CAN’T INSULT ’FM.
Several of the “ distinguished ” Ans*
tralians recently invited to Windsor by
the Queen, accepted the Royal flospl-
taJity'despite the fact that their wives
had, for various well-known reasons,
been intentionally overlooked by Her
Majesty.— Daily Paper.
DISTINGUISHED AUSTRALIAN (log.): "HAI HAI SO SBE ACTUALLY THINKS SHE
CAN KEEP ME FROM GROVELLING BY INSULTING MY OLD WOMANI”
Marie Brizard! Marie Brizard I Marie Brizard!
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Quiet nerve and balmy sleep in Hop
Bitters, for sleep'ess and invalids. Ameri-
can Co.’s make tbe genuine. Notice
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Marie Brizirdl Marie Brizardl Marie Brizard!
Soientiflo judges confess Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
Maiie Brizardl Marie Br'zardl Marie Brizardl
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl Marie Brizardl
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Gent. Oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all ef the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few suoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Bhef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PROVIDENCE
Hslpsthos* who help themselves. Nature has provided
h«rb# lor the cure ol human ailments, and medical
soienoe baa discovered their healing powers, and th#
proper combinations necessary to conquer disease,
fee result ol these discoveries and combinations Is—
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS.
JTpf fniny ycnr® it has l»fon in jsvcrc casbi of
Kidney end Livar Ln*«u*», Malaria, Dyspepsia, In.
digestion, Weakness, Lassitude, A.C., and invariably it
hM viyan relief and cure. Thousands of testimonial*
b*Yi been given, and is most popular where b#s*
know*.
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
H«adaeh«--rTht stomach is disordered. Cleans.
and settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Indigestion.— Start the Secretions of the Stomach
with Dr. Beil’s Bitters.
Jaundice— Blood poisoned by Bila. Correa* th*
liver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Late of .Appetite—The Stomach Is fir#*
oUans#Tt; *“ "
rpldli
st. Be
tfausea.— Reaction of Bile. Oorreot Stomach and
Liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Malar l a.-Poison in‘the Blood. Purify by starting
the Liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Nervousness.— Deranged Stomach Function. C*o>
root and tone with Dr. Bell's' Bitters.
Niahi Sweats.- Weakness. Strengthen snd ton#
th# #y#t#m with Dr. Bell’# Bitter*
then tone with Dr. Bell’# Bitters.
Torpidity.— lnaction of Liver. Start it up with
ill’s Bitters.
Nora. —Any poor Person, or the Manager sf any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
U e Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
at the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
far msdldn*. ...
BELL'S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
MWW YORK, LONDON, CANADA,
sfaW MBA LAND A AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
iourrs roa
j/0w Seatt* Walsi and Queensland.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d»
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
rni
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness, &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d.and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
£10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
-3W SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £1000;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address —
“BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNMXCiUAM,
Margaret-street, Wynward-square, Sydney.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Good Medals—
PAltlS, 1878; CALCUTTA,IBB4,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIP ANNE
STEPHANOTIS
IYLANG YLANG
I OPAPaNAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor t-lwir delightful and lasting edour
Atkinson's celebrated
EATT DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers — i
J ,<t E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on" Golden /
fcs, Lyre,” M
■'YTERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY ail
i.l STRENGTH. —A Gentleman, having tried! i
rain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to on receipt of stamped
directed envelope. . ,
Address—” Confidential," G.P.0., Sydney,


GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
GREAT NORTHERN LINE.
CONVEYANCE OF EXPLOSIVES.
NOTICE is hereby pi ven that the daily reception
of explosives at Newcastle now in force will
be Discontinued at expiration of Fourteen Days
from date hereof, and will thenceforth be received
on Mondays and Wednesdaysjonly. at hours same
as present, and will be forwarded to destination on
following days, viz , Tuesday and Thursday.
C. A 6OODCOAP,
Commissioner fcr Railways.
Dept, of Publio Works.
Railway Branoh, Bydney, 23rd. Augst, 1886.
LADIES OF SYDNEY.
IT behoves every thrifty housewife to
look to the future, in order if pos-
sible to
SAVE MONEY.
It is a well-known fact that a large in-
crease has occurred in the price of wool at
home, and it is only to be expected that
prices of Woollen Goods will be higher
next winter than they are this ; so that if
any of you will be requiring
NEW BLANKETS
next winter, how much better to buy them
now, and save the inevitable increase in
price,
Those who have bought blankets from]
this winter know what excellent value we
have been giving, and we feel sure that if
you do so also you will never regret it.
OUR PRICES ARE—
is. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. lid., Bs. 6d.,
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 205., 255., 305., and
up to 50s. a pair.
HORDERN BROTHERS
(HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET)*
211 PITT STREET.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers . throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
m
Newest
THE
DIAGONAL SHAM
COESET.
Invention’— Greatest Novelty.
Y*N PATENT
Patented in England aDd on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Pellet says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage."
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
.tromr -md the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution.— Beware of worthless imitations.
JZuiZe Y & N Co “et is stamped “ Y & N Pat* nt Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116," in oval.
Gfdd McXl! N«w Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets, London
lD £ld by
Xlrmta.Jiti.3x;
STOCK AND STATION AGENTB,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
hold daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of FAT STOCK at HOMEBOSH and COF
TION YARDS.
)KPORA-
Offioe-175 CABTLBREAGH STREET.
HOLESALE MANUFACTURI
4ZoGtvraeS>
ONFECTIONERTra?^
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t near Erskine ST
OH' Imh),
TO OK OSH OH SHORTEST NOTICE.
Counthy a SmrrtHC QOOSKS fi\QnmrmtlW i
ORIGINAL
p %
WAUGH'S
and
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O P. t
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
W/NCPO^li!
ISTHE BEST I NTH EWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUG H S
RECE IVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannon
.& Harbour S t Sydney t
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
G. B. HODINI, ounmaker p
BEGS to announce to bis patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen In Sydney. The latest Improvements In
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co , Joseph Lang and Son, Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &c., and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 Ceorge-st., Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. VST" Price List on application
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTI N
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GUINNESS* EXTRA STOUT.
FIRST
QUALITY.
* 0 f
MW
k
wMmm
BASB’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON 8c CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
80 LE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
SWiIGIIL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
Eirst-olass Accommodation for commercials
PIETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terns.
4;
v
me
&
i
s\'
' >■•
''■V
This is not the dog that’s had his day, *,
Though he is earning his grub in a novel way,
He is a dog that never goes back on his mate,
When the whistle blows he exposes his plate.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
' ’ ’ GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
send for] 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, [Cotalogues .
LEA& PERRINS'SAUCE
.
SABO
m:'.
■3s®n&msi
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
'have, to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask foi LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapter, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell’, London, Src. , Sfc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
» ■■■ | , ■ .n, | | | ■■
Wholesale Agents * Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
<o^
JSse Wi
fgd
t*
r
fg
Fop Renewing Ebonized Cabinets,
Desks, Workboxes, &e.
For Reviving Plates, Knobs, Locks, &e.
For Renewing Carriage Lamps.
Fop Painting Picture Frames, &e., &c. ■
1/- and 2/6 per Bottle. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), LondeU and New York.
C. R. YOUNG’S
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
GULGONG.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
Pc
©EMIT
exquisite |
*ctwu3 toUUj
THE PROPRIE TOR\
- /
&ALICYU
TOOTH,PASTi
cr<H_ -
UflßityUED fty fTSflf/rI SEPT!C
iHo CLEA/Jsif/G PROPERTIES.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 W/11/am ST ; SYDNEY ’
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
lit tills city*
Loans from 1?. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
.per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at bates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver andaU Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Mnrphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
oonnt Offices, corner of Kent and Liverjfoolstreets
opposite George-ftreet,
dfg
AGUARANTEBwitb
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &o.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakes,
1 Little Collins-street, East, V mourns.
Illustrated Catalogues on appli >tioa
aKNTLEMEN’B CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
138 CASTLEREAGH *STREET,
Near Market-street.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, August 24, 1886.
miNDBBS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
A. PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see GovaßNMairr Gajebtt*, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aeoept
the lowest or any tender.
Matuia of Worm uut Supplies*
Dates to irhleh
Tenders oan b*
received at
this offles.
Supply of 1000,000 Wrought
Iron Spikes, Permanent Way
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Cons ruction of Overshot Dam
at Tirana
Construction of Wharf and Ap-
proach thereto, Saokville
Beach
Erection of Stable, Fencing, &0.,
Court-house, Emmaviile
Ereotion of Railway Station,
Carooar
Construction of Engine-shed
and Pits, Eskbank, Great
Western Railway
Supply of Coal for North Shore
Tramway
Tuesday,
‘August 31,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture in this Colony of
Ironwork for lattice girder
Bridge over Snowy Elver at
Buckley’s Crossing
Supply of Clothing for Railway
Employes duringlBB6 and 1887
Tuesday,
September 7.
at 11 o'clock.
Supply of 176,000 Sleepers,
Railway Forbes to Wllcannia
Breotlon of Offices, Hospital for
the Insane, Gladesvllle
Erection of Central Fire Brigade
Station, Sydney
Supply of Stores for all lines of
Railways and Tramways dur-
ing 1887
Tuesday,
September 14,
at 11 o’oiook.
Extension of Main Intercepting
Sewer along Parramatta-
street
Tuesday,
September 31,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of the Prince I
Alfred Hospital Connecting I
Sewer
Tuesday,
September 28,
at 11 o’cloolr.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wenthworth Water
Works
Ditto Pump Chamber, &o„ ditto
ditto ditto
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes,
Valves, &0., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and F ittinga, and
Erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto.
Ditto Flexible-jointed Pipes, See.
ditto ditto ditto
Tuesday,
October 5,
at 11 o’ciook.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, oont. 1, Bourke Water
Supply
Construction of Settling Reser-
voirs, Boiler House, &0., oont.
2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipe Valves, &c., oont.
3, Bourke Water Supply
Supply and Brection of Engines,
eont. 4, Bourke Water Supply
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’olook,
w. j. lynb.
FOUY’B SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, Ac., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
POPULAR CONSULTATIONS.
CAULFIELD CUP of 1886.
1500 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse 200
Third Horse 100
Starters, £lOO ; Non-Starters, £lOO ; to be divided
amongst them.
'Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tickets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers, 135 King-street,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS.
Extract from Sydney Sunday News :—
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of 1 Democrat’s ’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, but in ‘ Democrat’s ’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of ‘ Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion.”
Several other newspapers have borne similar
testimony to the genuineness of “Democrat’s”
consultations.
D EMOCRAT’S mammoth consultation.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1886.
7500 subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £5OOO
Second Horse 1000
Third Horse 500
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All “Democrat’s” consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
a nd respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” ehtts of J, P, T.
Cauldfield, 135 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W,
COMPLIMENTARY BALL
to THE RIGHT WORSHIPFUL the
MAYOR of SYDNEY, JOHN YOUNG, Esq., J.P.,
and the LADY MAYORESS,
To be held in the EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park.
On MONDAY, 20th SEPTEMBER.
GENTLEMEN’S TICKETS ... ... 30s.
LADIES' TICKETS 20s.
Gentlemen wishing to have their names placed
on the Committee will please notify to the Honor-
ary Secretaries.
CHARLES COWPER, Chairman.
Dr. TUCKER
C. C. SKARRATT
Hon.
Treas.
J. H. DAVIES
H. FRANKS
Hon.
Secs.
Tickets are now ready, and can be obtained from the fol-
lowing Members of the Executive Committee: J. Hunt, G.
W. Thornton, J. Norton Russell, J. F. Coats, B. N. Jones,
J. Kidman, 8. J, Davidson, M. Aaron, J. It. Carey, W. H.
Pritchard, and from the Hon. Secretaries.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c,,
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER N. S. W.
Take all in all.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines ,
—Take all tho Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all tho Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all tho Ague, Fever, and bilious
, specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
\
revives,
—Take all the Cheat health restorers.
In short, take all tho best qualities of all these
and the — best
— Qualities of all the best medicines in the
world, and you will find that — Hop Bitters have
the best curatives qualities and powers of all —
concentrated in them,
—And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or — combined. Fail 1 ! ! !
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Kardrird Uver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All- the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, t he swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been no w in my grave.
J. W. Morev, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering
“I was dragged down with debt, poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, until one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Hop Bitters, and in
one month we were all well, and none of us have seen a sick
day since, an<td want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your families well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor’s visit will cost. I know it."
——- * —A Workingman,
Prosecute the Swindlers ! !
If when you call for Amerioan Hop Bitters (see green ting
On the white label and Dr. Soule’s name bloum in the
bottle), the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor as yon would a viper;
and if he has taken your money for anything lese indict him
for the fraud and sue himffor damages for the swindle, and
* e will pay yon liberally for the conviction.
Bobirt butcher * o:o.
(Late William Long),
Jtr WIN! AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* reoeive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
m
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and ii inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladles’ and
Gentlemen s Saddles, Spurs, and kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, See.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
VHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
tW THB NBW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY tLIMITEIS
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
mSSTISiSSE!' £L fi i« OWB: 7L 88 1, 1I * N PER CENT OB
MWSMSSfIS
Offices.
J. Y» WABEHAM, Manager. ‘
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in El very Souse.
df
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS^
FLEAS FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES.** 01 * 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO Bl RDS DO GS,
B ili
■, a ,
1 FOWLS OR OTHER
' 1 • PvAV' - '
ANIMALS
N
W.
gd
g
■■ . ;
r tVAKD-S 1
PTyAILCHEMIST?
Am) STOREKEEPERS!
WHOLE 5Q 11 !
FELTON • G Rl MW A DtUC°
MELBOURNE I
Wanted in £2very Souse.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
0?
IP
'l'
PATENT
PILLS.
45
Ask for KKUSE’B INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations *
.Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutfes. This is no fiction,.for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to he
WORT:i A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to seund and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will he found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring hack the) keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical, energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all Glasses of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs- in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense, of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
■ The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
Jgatt, Lawson Bros., Si Eg.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding ? Low Price of *5 lSs
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSOIT BROS., & CO.
39 CABTLERRAGH STREET,
FREE B POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &o.,Jtc., without consulting a medical manr
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
m
V.LNIBICL
LIMITED,
356 Gaorge-strsst,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
Of
riANOB, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application,
W. H. PALING & Co
S&6 George-street, Sydney
•04 popuo44« jJpjdraoid sjopjo
•99jj 4SOd 6an2ox , B4'BQ
•ahncias ‘xhhhxs xxix 80s ‘hcivohv 200 a
SJOOWIA'I IMVmiM
413 AV9TA uo sAeMfe sjfoog; AAA* A r\
puwqpuoosg pu« AV9JSX saimOA UUu X C
paSueqoxg; jo ‘piog ‘xqSnog
"snooa gxooa shoos
WILLIAM BULLARDS GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Gloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr -sic at
the old prioes can now be had for One Pound. This
fraud stock comprises, amongst other items,
heet Music, Bongs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Servioes, &c.
Part Music. Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brars Band Music, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose andverse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and gins; Nautical
vs orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &<?.; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANE3E BRONZES, Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Aih Trays,
Anci Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely Illustrated, all sizes, tl
wonderfully low prices
A CCuUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copyißg Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest ii
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of pvery kiDd *tnd description
ARTISTS MATERIALS-Solid Sketoh Block!
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematics
Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order c;
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
m &EGR<i.E STREET.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The Redfern Bioyole Club brought off
their first annual meeting on S&turday, on the
Association Cricket Ground, in the presence of a
moderate attendance. H. H. Lambton, the much-
improved Bur wood man, made a win of the slowly-
ridden five-miles Invitation soratoh raoe, although
he nearly lost it througn losing bis pedals in the
final spurt, and he only lust recovered himself in
time to beat BrowD, of Victoria. The mile tricycle
championship soon resolve! Itself Into a match
between E. W. Quirk and J. F. Rugv. the former
winning rather easily in 3min. 41J4!e0. F- J.
Elohler (80yds) won the mile maiden bicycle
handicap; Balway (80/ds) won the mile open
handicap; Ballird proved himself the mile oham-
pion of the club; Vonnard showed himself ihe
best schoolboy at a mile; and A. Kinnlnmont won
the three miles open handicap from Thomas.
Kinnlnmont must be a glutton for work, as he
had previously won two heats in the mile maiden
and a like number in the open mile.
m • *
A big muster of Cook’s River lads put in
an appearance at Foley’s hill on Wednesday night
when the mueb-talfced-of glove fight between
Sparkes and Wilkie was brought off. Suffice to
say the men were tbe worst hands at the game It
has ever been our misfortune to witness, and
Wilkie gave in after five rounds of fighting that a
schoolboy would have laughed at. Sparkes comes
of good stock, being a son and nephew of Tom and
Bill Sparkes respectively—both of whom, by the
way, were in the hall—but he is scarcely a chip of
the old block, who fought such a gallant battle
with Nat Langham, Tom Sayers’ only Victor. On
May 4, 1847, Bill Sparkes and the celebrated Eng-
lish middleweight, Nat Langham met at Woking,
England, and had Sparkes not had the small bones
in bis right arm br ken in the 67th round, the
fight might have had a very different termination
The fighting was of lightning rapidity, no less
than 67 rounds being fought in 63 minutes. In
tbe second round Sparkes knocked Langham clean
off his feet with a right-handed spank in the ribs,
and he repeated tbe performance in the Bth, 13th.
33th. and 50th rounds. It was in the 62nd round
that Sparki s had the arm broken, but it was not
till tbe 67th that his second threw up the sponge,
and even then much against Sparkes’ will.
• * *
For right down slogging matohes, Satur-
day night at Foley's equalled anything yet seen
at that popular Bohool of Arts. The opening bout
between Gorman and Burgess was worth the
money in itself. Both men gluttons at taking
punishment, they stood up to their work, and at
the end of four ding-dong rounds they could not
be divided Tom lay lor, Jackson’s pupil, faoed
the scientific Peter Newton, and made a better
show than we expected of him. Favours were
very equally distributed until the third round,
when Taylor went weak, and had Newton followed
up the Jacksonian, it looked all over with him.
In tne fourth round, Taylor came again, and
when the men were ordered to “ shake hands,”
there was nothing to ohoose between them.
Taylor is a fine powerful young fellow, and shapes
like a tradesman, but toe bigh action of bis left
arm when sparring, something after the style of a
high-stepping carriage horse, will, without doubt,
prove tiring when he is called upon to make a
prolonged effort. Perhaps the best box of the
night was between Murphy and Stewart. To look
at tbe men it looked a whiteman to a Chinaman
on the clean-built Stewart, who has thrashed
everyone yet opposed to him in the field. So
soon sb time was oalled for the final round,
slim-iooking Murphy, weighing but Sat. 51b.,
landed four blows such as few 12st. men could
deliver, and knocked his opponent “ groggy,” but
Stewart stuck to his man, and when time was
called both were tired, with Murphy a bit the best
of it. The champion Foley, as usual, showed him-
self a master of the art in his bout with the clever
Victorian Molloy. Lees found a ohopping-blook
in novice somebody or other, and Steve O’Donnell
and Meadows went through five rounds of what
would not have brushed the powder off a lady’s
cheek.
* * *
Sydney Rowing Club regatta afternoons
are proverbial for their windy character, and at
noon last Saturday it looked as if the usual rule
would obtain. But after luncheon the wind
moderated, and the S.R.C. people experienced
the novelty of calm water for their races at
the Branch. H. H. Massie (“ The Deer ” of the
cricket field), C. A. Gaden, J. E. H. Kennedy,
and C. A. Bros made an easy win of the senior
fours; W. H. Stuart made ditto of the maiden
soulls; and trial and soratoh sights filled In a
good aquatic afternoon.
* * *
Big prices were the order of the day at
the Yardley (EDg.) sale of young 'uns, when a
yearling, brother to Paradox, was knocked down
at 3100g5.; a oolt, by Stirling from Seagull, for
2350g5.; ana a filly, by Stirling from Cherry
Duchess, 1500 gs.
# • ♦
In their second match, Neil Matterson
made as great a show of Perkins as the Englishman
had made of him at their first meeting. Some ex-
planation of the reversal of form may be found in
letters from home, which state that on the day
when Matterson was defeated, he pulled a boat
weighing fully 371b5.. the work in which was
lowered on the day of the raoe. Beach’s “ grip ”
of tbe water and command over his boat may be
attributed in a great measure to the manner he is
perohed up in his craft, and should the report be
true that young Matterson was at the last moment
squatted down in his boat, a further cause of
defeat need not be looked for. Gaudaur, who Is
now in England, is stated to be a finished soulier,
in great contrast to Teemer, who, if one paper at
least can be depended on, is a soulier of the main
strength and brutality sort.
* * *
Shaw’s team of English orioketera will
leave for Australia on Nth September next.
• * *
Mr. J. M. Curtis has re-purchased the
yacbt Doris, and intends racing her next season.
We are afraid Mr. Curtis will find she is not class
enough for the flyers we have at present in the
harbour.
• * *
Hen dee, a Yankee amateur, has bicycled a
mile in 2min. 37sec., just 12-ssee. faster than the
celebrated mile of the Australian champion, Con.
Dwyer. , » *
Mr. J. Steedman, ex-champion swimmer
of London, says: “For a maritime people the
English are the worst swimmers in the world,
one-tenth of the population not being able to
swim.” So that England is not merely descend-
ing; she’s sinkiDg altogether.
* * •
A certain English jockey, who favoured
these shores with a visit last year, appears to have
come over very much “ on the make.” There
was a lot of talk about his starting an extensive
training establishment and so forth, but it would
seem that nobody ever saw “ tbe colour of his
money ” from tae day of his landing till that of
his hurried departure. Furniture, food, saddlery,
drinks, clothes, and oivars-all were procured on
ths “ never ” system. The departed one must have
been worth a nice bit of money at one time, and as a
jockey stands—or stood-high in his profession.
Evidently, though thiDgs have gone amiss with
Mm in England, and he tried Australia on the “ off
chance ” of striking oil. His want of success is
much deplored by several creditors.
* * *
After being ‘ ‘ kn ocked out’ ’ in the Melbourne
Cup betting, Trenton has be come again as good
a favourite as anything. Lots of things will
happen between now and November, but all going
well with him In the meantime, the N.Z. horse will
take a lot of beating for the big event. That
Trenton was uDiucky In being beaten Jast year his
i übsequent performances proved. If he were
matched against Sheet Anchor to-day over the
same course aud at the same weights, good judges
would lay 3 to 1 on him reversing last year’s run-
ning. Misguided mortals who will speculate might
do worse than to take a fancy bet about the next
Melbourne Cup falling to a son of Musket.
* * *
The tardy settlement of that cricketiDg
squabble between the Melbourne Club and Messrs.
Shaw and Shrewsbury, has given general satis-
faction. By abandoning a grab-all policy the
M.C.C. is not likely to be muoh out of pocaet in
the end, for the terms arranged with Shaw’s agent
are that all Melbourne matches must be played on
the M.C.C ground, the Club taking 25 per cent, of
the grand-stand receipts, and 10 per cent, of the
gate money. Under favourable weather conditions
these receipts are likely to be considerable. The
professionals’ team should prove a muoh surer
draw than any which the Club could have im-
ported, as it will include the baokbone of the “ All
England ” Eleven which has won back those his-
toric “ashes.” The prejudice which existed
against gate-money enterprises has been consider-
ably weakened by recent cricket developments.
Murdeoh’s crowd of 1884, who played for the r own
pockets, made a vastly uetter she w than the present
Eleven, which is merely upholding the “ honour ”
of Australia and the interests of the Melbourne
Club. And of the English teams visiting Australia
none left with suoh a good reoord as the Staaw-
Shrewsbury combination. They worked for the
“gate,” and they did it uncommonly well. With
the one exception of Ulyett, they showed a
saill and determination in the field quite un-
precedented among English professionals, and
the fact that the forthcoming lot will be
under the same management is a guarantee
for all-round efficiency. If the .“amateurs”
Shrewsbury brings with him were superior
oreatures of the Lord Harris pattern, things might
not work always smoothly. But tbe Nottingham
man understands his business. The “amateurs”
he engaged will be either in the swim themselves
or—granting their claim to the title—gentlemen
who will conscientiously study the Interests of.the
business. There promises, however, to be too
muoh hippodrome about the next season’s
arrangements. The * Australian Eleven,” it
seems, is to be hired out by the Melbourne Club, and
will meet the Englishmen in eaoh big town At
that rate, the towns will have to keep scoring
game and game, and then playing off the rubber,
or else the weaker side must get beaten with
wearisome monotony. Neither alternative looks
pleasant from a sporting poiut of view. The
Fublio get disgusted with a “ you throw me and
’ll throw you'* programme, nor will they roll up
to see one lot invariably beaten. And the present
Australian Eleven doesn't look like invariably
winning. It is impossible to blink the faot. If the
Melbourne Club is bent on farming the Eleven,
they will do well to irrigate it with a little fresh
blood.
* * *
Here are some interesting figures from the
last England v. Australia match. The following
seven men made an aggregate soore of 22 runs in
the first innings and 30 runs in the second innings;
—Jones, Scott, M'ilwraith, Blaokham, Garrett,
Evans, Spofforth; 52 runs for 14 innings—average
soore per man, 3 5-7 runs. Of the Australian
bowlers, Spofforth took 4 wickets for 65, and
Trumble 3 wickets for 80. The remaining 3 English
wiokets cost 279 runs, against the bowling of
Palmer, Evans, Garrett, Jones, Giffen, and Bruce.
As the ground is represented as being very heavy
on the two last days, it is a remarkable faot that
only 1 English wicket (Scotton was out on the first
day) and 3 Australian wiokets were clean bowled.
Lohman and Briggs seoured 18 wickets between
them, at an average cost of 9 runs. Both these
men have been engaged for Shaw’s Eleven,
together with Barlow, who accomplished a best-
on-reoord against the Australians in the first of
the test matches at Manchester. On turf in splen-
did condition he toek 8 wickets for 63 runs, eaught
3 other men, and played innings of 38 (not out) and
30. By the way, as Spofforth was Interviewed by
the Pall Mall Gazette, perhaps someene will
interview Lohman and Barlow about the ” secret”
of their trundling. We notice that Briggs, who
bowled with suoh uniform suooess at Lord's and
the Oval, was never tried at all in the Manchester
match.
* * *
•The grand aquatie puzzle is intensified by
Neil Matterson’s easy defeat of Perkins for the
“ championship of England.” At a first glance
it looks as though Matterson may be just rowing
into true form, and that his previous reverses
were “ all wrong.” It only remains now for Kemp
and Nelson to turn the tables on their former con-
querors.” Then wo shall know that everything is
aU wrong-
* * *
By oable we learn that eolonial sculler
Nelson has been matched to row Englishman Lar-
gan over the Thames course for £5O aside. If
Nelson is not putting up the money himself, he
must have good friends to back him, for suoh a
forlorn hope as his match with Largan must
prove.
The results of last Saturday’s Sydney foot-
ball matches did not materially alter the position
of any of the Gardiner Cup competitors, as the
clubs well to the fore soored fresh wins. While on
the subjeot of the Gardiner Cup, we would suggest
to the Union tbe desirableness of altering the
rules under whioh the trophy is competed for, for
although they acted very well while only
some six or seven clubs were on the list,
they are not suitable under the ciroumstanoes
of the largely-increased number of senior
clubs. The first rule says the club winning
meat matches during the season shall be declared
the winner, and, as the respective clubs arrange
their own lists, it is an incentive for them to eram
as many and as “ soft ” matohes into toeir pro-
grammes as possible. One club, A, may
arrange,say 15 matohes, 11 “soft” things whion
they win, and the remaining four against the
oracks, whioh they lose. Another club, B, may
arrange 11 matches Bnd win 10. including a ooupie
of contests against A, but as A have won the most
matohes they are deemed the winners. Buoh rules
are absurd and require revision.
■ * *
Amongst the relies of the good old days
of the colonial P.R. now on view at Foley’s flstio
academy, is the champion-belt of N.S.W., pre-
sented to Ike Reid, 39 years ago, in recognition of
the scientific way in which he knocked the
“seasoning” out of George Hough, at Middle
Harbour, April 6, ’47. The belt is a work of art in
its way, ana was manufactured by J. J. Cohen.
The “mill”in question w?b a rattler. 87 rounds
being fought in lh. 38mi:\ In those days Hough
was a man of might, having, amongst other
“brushes.” knocked Bliley, who was a good’un,
out in 1843, at George’s Kiver, in eight rounds, and
subsequently “dressed” Ned Cbalker down for
£2OO and the championship, in a fast fought 43
rounds, in 1846. It is not generally known, even
amongst the talent, that the veteran Hough is at
present residing with Mr. A. Turnbull, Emu
Plains, Penrith, and with the exception of having
partially lost his sight, appears to be as hale and
hearty as he was when he pltohed his “ oastor
on the grasiy sward, and put up his “ dukes
nearly half a century ago, to the best men who
could be brought before him.
, , .. ©
It 19 stated that the Victoria Fox Terrier
Club have expended nearly £BO in the purchase of
rabbits for coursing purposes, during the last four
moLths. Of that £BO worth ot bunnies, not one
has escaped its doom. Pigeon-shooting from a
trap is a super-humane sport compared with this.
* • •
Turfites in South Australia are anxiously
awaiting the fate of the Totalisator Bill. It has
passed its second reading in the Assembly, hut
the clerical erewd are making a big effort to get
the wicked bill snuffed out in the Upper House.
If the maohinations of the unco’ guid suoceed,
the sporting fraternity will endeavour to make
the totalisator a test question at the next general
elections. It is the burning topic of the day.
England is divided on the Home Rule for Ireland
scheme, N.B.W. wrangles about ad valorem duties,
but South Australian politicans are preparing to
stand or fall on the Totalisator. Betting gets
more respectable every day.
CORRESPONDENCE
lOorretponaenu who gtve neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! nottoed-1
“ C. Lewis ” : When Mr, Reid, at Orange,
said that he had advooated Free-trade in a debat-
ing: sooiety and stuck to It ever since, he seems to
hvae let a very large-sized feline out of itsplaoe of
concealment. He probably pleads Free-trade now
because he did so In his debating society days,
rather than for any other reason. Mr. Reid is a
mathematical thinker with nearly as much fire in
his composition as a tree-toad, or the future
mummy of Ramoses PlddlDgtonH. Y.”: “ Pro-
metheus” contains some strong lines, Dut
its ideas have frequently been published in
The Bulletin.. ..“Quipolly Too oompli*
oated and intangible an idea for artistic de-
velopment.... “8.J.P.”:. ''he fact that the Sydney
Evening News quottd p-rt of Marcus Clarke’s
preface to Lindsay Gor <m> w am as tbe “recent
wora of aa English writer,” goes to show that
men who were built for hodmen do not always
follow that vocation. They run Bydney evening
papers....“B.E.L.”: Your little lyric is worthy of
a Soudan hero—or the Soudan goat....“ Henry
Goddard” (St. George, Q.): You say you are
very thin. So is your humour. Keep on send-
ing to Figabo. It will suit that paper... .
“ Beta ”: In your interesting disquisition on the
early-marriage question you say: “The young
Benediot has lost his former robustiousness (?) and
begins to look thin and pale.” This probably is
because his wife does the 000 king....“ Shearer ”:
We touohed this question la issue of the 14th inst.
.... “ Orion ”: Thanks. Reserved for illustration.
....“ J.S W.”: You make the original remark that
“ the pen is mightier than the sword.” This is
grounded on the bedrock of truth in some oases....
“P.M‘F.”(Pine Gully): You are in error. The
Bulletin has eve; been foremost among the
colonial supporters of Irish Home Rule. The pic-
ture ridiculed the cabled allegation that the
Nihilists and Fenians had united. ..“ Hempeker-
caton”: Good. Holdover ....“Australian”: Yes,
if you can send us a forcible letter... “Elphln”
(Launceston, Tas.): Thanks, but incident already
dealt with. Write again. . “ Ethel S.”: We don’t
know whether the dear man is “ bUd on the out-
side of his head,” but he has been bald inside it for
many years.... “ Wool": We don’t know the name
of the man who hanged O’Farrell....“ W.C.P.”:
You haven’t let us into the joke. What’s it all
about?. ..“Mount M’Donald”: Why don’t you
tell us all about it ?....“ Australian ”: No room
for a letter whioh contains neither argument nor
point. ...“Joshua K. Hurling”: The story is too
long, lacks plot, is not of Australian (or any)
literest, and we don’t want It, anyhow....“A
Subscriber ”: To print any two lines of your poem
would endanger your life. We don’t mind doing
that, but the bribe of a C M.G.-ship would not
induce us to print the bal al—“ W. Under-
wood”: Yes, a man in N.S.W. may legally marry
his wife’s sister, but not until after the wife is
dead....“J. Dennis”: Came to hand too late
...." Ajaoks”: Is education compulsory in
your district...."J.P.B.”: Will write y0u....
“ Casula ”: The rumour that Nebuchadnezzar
Coonan has been offered a C.M.G.-ship is incorreot,
or, at least, premature. His recent financial ex-
ploits have not yet been related to Her Majesty...
“ Mabel ”: We held a corner of your poem in eaoh
hand, and the paper tore badly 1wi0e....“ Kiss”:
Thanks. Held for illustration. ..“ Broken-hearted
Father”: Your letter relating aotual experience
is only in acoord with much.that we know, but
oannot publish eonoerning the horrible brutality
of some of these Chinese cabbage-hawkers....
“New Guinea”: Will work them up....“J. M,
Francis”: Of no use to u 5....“ W. Cruden”: Glad
of the items....“Bogan Cocky” (Germanton):
Billy D— is almost too great a fool to be interest-
ing. A man can reach such a point of asinine
genius as to be of no use exoapt for stuffing pur-
poses... .“ Lemuel”: Your poem is too intense for
a twenty-shillings-in-the-pound universe....” Ylr-
ginum”: Evidently intended for the religious
papers....”R. Avellng”: All these things must be
done by degrees. To attempt, by abolishing cus-
toms now, to drive the Government to the land
for all revenue, would be folly worthy of those
who put their trust in uncertifloated and chronlc-
ally-lnsolvent saints. Information re wharves un-
obtainable....” J.H.C.”: Your humour must be
oast in a different mould before It can be received
here. Try to work up definite subjects in para-
graph f0rm....” A R J.”: Deolined with thanks—
thanks tola merciful Providence which ordains that
there should be very few such poets In the world.
~.H. 0. Shaw”: May possibly use “ Minnie
H.”: Too late. Such an event is not of enduring
interest....” A Contributor”: Too late; the item
should have reached us last week....” Halcyon”:
Your thoughts greatly resemble those of Baron
Tennyson. It is unfortunate for you that he
should have published his poems before you had a
chance of doing so. But perhaps you did not have
a ebanoe of publishing those thoughts until after
he had given them to the world.
The game of Lacrosse is growing in popu-
larity in Sydney. A new dub, to be styled the
“Iroquois," is In course of formation. But why
should this club go to Canada for a name ? True,
the game is Canadian but we have native names
going begging, only they sound a good deal like
bad language.
What may happen to one in Tasmania. A
lady recently entered an omnibus to be driven
from Sandy Bay to Hobart—distance, 2% miles—
usual tun?, 30 minutes. When about halt way the
’bus was drawn up opposite a shoelng-forge, a
horse unharnessed, led to.the smith, and shod, the
passengers, meanwhile, waiting with such patience
as they could command till, the operation being
over, they were oojnveyed to the city. No wonder
they call the island “ Sleepy Hollow.”
OF
THE
STAG!
QLIMPSBS
Under this heading a writer in a recent number
of the Whitehall Review gives a pleasantly
readable account of a visit behind the scenes or a
theatre in London, at which Mr. Wilson Barrett
and Miss Eastlake are now delighting large! audi-
ences with Greek tragedy, as “ Clito’ Mr. Bar-
rett had received an ugly stab in bis left arm dur-
ing the performance of ono of the terribly realis-
tic soenes in the tragedy, and Miss Eastlake, who
hcs covered herself with glory for her terriDie
creation of “ Celle,” was, at the same time, only
just recovering from a painful acoident in tne
shops of a rtcenily sprained foot. As an incident
of the visit, both these artists were loud in their
praises of what the lady called “a newly-dls-
oovered cure, a sort of charm,” and it is needless
to ssy that this was none other than the world-
renowned 6t Jaoob’s oil. Neither of them oould
say enough in praise c f the great pain conqueror,
and the writer of the article (which is contained
ie the Review of Jbe e 17 1881, but is too long for
publication) winds up hy saying:—
” In conoludiag this article I will diverge for a
moment and say that, wbi'e it is neither my incli-
nation nor business to proalaim mv opinion re-
specting the merits of a mediomal discovery, the
proprietors of at. JaoebsOii are certaioly welcome
to every benefit the publicity of the above state-
ment of facts nay l ring to them. Wherever one
goes he learns almost daily how the marvellous
powers of this wonderful oil are becoming recog-
nised by all classes. Meeiiag a prominent physi-
cian the other day, whose wire had for two years
been a perfect martyr to rheumatism, I was tola
that its msgicai curative properties had fairly
mystified him. After only using this remedy one
week, every traoeof tbo terrible pains from which
she so long suffered left her, and had never re-
turned. I notice, also, that the champion oarsman
of the word, William Beach, of Australia, is
among the many notables who publicly endorse it
as a really wonderful discovery."
S
NOWFLA.KE. SNOWFLAKE. SNOWFLAKE.
MAKE A NOTE OF IT.
It cannot be too frequently or too strongly
urged upon the consumers of kerosene that the
best oil in the world will fail to give satisfaction if
used in a dirty lamp. Heads of households should
make a note of this. and at the same time when
purchasing “Saowflake ” ask fotfthe “ Wamsutta
wick, which allows the free patsige of the oil to
the burner, and regulates the supply
The “SNOWFLAKE” KEROSENE is direct
frqm the refinery of Lombard, Ayres and Co„ New
V IT k IS 150 DE(3RUES FIRE TEIT. THEREFORE
ABSOLUTELY BAFE: AND ONCE USED WILL
MAINTAIN IT3 POSITION AGAINST ALL
OTHER BRANDS.
It can be obtained from Messrs. W. S. Friend and
Co.. Mason Bros, Limited, E. Klrohner and Go.,
M'Gregor, Harris, and 00., George Griffith and
Co., T. W. E dy and Son D. Cohen and Co., Potts,
and Paul, Holdsworth and Co.. F. Butcher,
Holdsworth, Maopherson, & Co., Walker, Lemon
and Co., M'Lean, Bros, and Rigg. and W. Tillook
& Co., D. MitobelL and Co, Allt and Co., and John
Barlow and 00,
“The Waterbary.”
/
.s
m
JpiHß WATERBURY WATCH.
This astonishing invent'on has so corralled the
sympathies of the public that every intending:
purchaser of a watch, nowadays, asks, In the first
place, “ Why should I give five to ten pounds for
a watch that has to be oerpetually undergoing
repairs, and. at the best of times, cannot be relied
on; when I can buy a reifectly trustworthy,
strong, and handsome one for 13s. 61. The Water-
bary Watoh is what it seems to be, there is no
sham about it; no inferior Swiss movement in an
English case, sold under the name cf an English
lever. The Waterbury c;n only boast of a nickel-
plated case, but as a timekeeper it challenges com-
parison with the most expensive watches made.
There are so many thousands of persons who now
carry them and cheerfully volunteer their testi-
mony to the many excellences of these watches,
that the latest advices from Ameriovwill scarcely
oreate surprise.
Owing to the enormous and rapidly increasing
demand, the Waterbury Watch Co. are bow mak-
ing arrangements to open branch businesses on
the continent of Burope, and here they will com-
pete In fair fight with the cheap producers of the
spurious imitations of the “ English Lever,”
which are puffed iu Australia under that name, at
"reduced priges.”
The ** Waterbury” has no rival and nothing to
fear It can bo had from all Storekeepers and
dealers In the colonies; and in case of aocldent can
be repaired at a cost of from One Shilling to Two
and Sixpence at the offices of
THE WATERBURY WITCH CO.,
54 Margaret-street,
Sydney.
as
i
ALL In search of health should wear Dr. Scott's
Genuine Electric Belt for ladies and gentle-
men, to promote the circulation, to stimulate the
organio aotion, to renew vital energy, and assist
digestion. Price, 15’. From all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or seat post-paid on receipt of
18 1. 61. Free by rail or steamer to any port or
railway station in N.B.W. or Queensland for 16s 6d.


T 0) tj
<s4n, exquisite
«twcc3 M jULf
BY the proprietor,
jm
ISALICYU
m
TOOTH,PASTL
Uf] MILLED US /Hi/ SEPTIC
/I Ho CLEANS If/o PROPERTIES.
Pharmaceutical Chemist
sr, SYDN£Y^*L
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manwfaeturers ef
The Finest Quality op Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
SIOH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
W^L JSTTED TJST EVERY HOUSE.
allnoxiousinse
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQU ITOES
cockroaches aavv; and is
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DC
■
FOWLS OROTHER2K
animals ~t"k ‘
'XV V A®
®*4i! 1.
df
gdf
gh
SOUS
PTyALICHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
whqi.es/u-e
FELTON'GRIMWADE.W.C?
MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
As k for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
rit Improved
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is,, 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, <f-c., se.
! BUDGEREE!!
trade
■rfcdllv
■vVj- ,>
MARK.
b "•*. WSINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Ferer-destroyer
1 'fi'aino p louse hold should be without it, as it instantly kills all bad smells arising from
. T ’ &e - Sold by all chemists.
' dA -S- C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
°I^GANS!
C C A-GBNTS for the
smith.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,
zpi-A-iisros,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
SIAM’S pills,
tim REMEDY,
ofc delion > and fx-ee from the
fstifr
of ana tree rrom uxe
au! 1 at i;n 6c j. . rcui T or mineral substance,
Sn l ot J he cen-
i Cj nnxena°? ®® 3c tive ; they can be
S>f Y K tio n, andta being a P re ‘
0 'he result of practical ex-
t Q o .Come the worst form of
tlly .
MYer o f uo tne worst form ot
1 tßii le at 11, ,„? Inac}l > Head, and Kidneys.
lo f- t they hare not afforded
I®OR
GE
STKEET.
dfgh
dfgdfghfgdĝhghghğ
TRADE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all crai ing for
Aleohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes aud gives vigor to the whole system. - Price 4s< #4.
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, • Srduey,
N.S.W.; London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE,
THE ORICINAL
Baking
<# \i/Allf?Ulp %l
AND Waughs o wyr
OBTAINED A
F I RST CLASS AWARD*
*. * C-R :
HIQHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
*£3B*
wm
I i;
a**
A.u*"
ISTHEBEST INTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT »
WAUC h s
RECEtVEDim'INTERN AT 50NAW|
Manufactured byJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Syonry
Sold by Ail Crocersand Storekeepers
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COMPLETES FT
'b V
V
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
ELIZABETH ST
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College of
Physicians of England. Consult him for the
best and safest treatment on nervous debility,
skin, contagious, and blood diseases.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
, : :
&
rSaSsSS
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst)
quenching properties of this world renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —KEIGWIN and
HARTSON, Sole Agents.
& G#.
extract!
OF
SOAP
* A
t-
iiSfcJlri
\ &. Co‘
m*
AtXTRftCT->SOa<“
s s ■.
m
m
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF HIM T
0
fl
on
<s
i 7
soa
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Am»
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparibla
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Giticura
n f 1
ri
7/
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
vs
Borofula on Necte.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring- humors, Hummating Erup.
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old ag.e, are cured by
Guticuka Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Guticuka and Cutkxjra Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Bnrning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm hath
with Guticuka Soap and a single application of
Cuticu«a, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sioians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Guticuka Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New Sostk Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood*
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henee
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Mesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood-
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vega-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cutikwra, 50 cents per box, la;;ge boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cbtiocba Shav-
i-no Soap, 15 eonts; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Pbeparep by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER & OPTICIA.
ÜBOURKE STREET, \
MELBOURNE. J
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYOMA.
fNEAKLVOPPOSIWTH.
! POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Levee Watch, strong dust-proof cases, wmranted a most correct ami reliable
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
.eke'!"’
ASK YOUR GROCER lOR
FRYS MALTED COC
J S PRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AS ORDINARY COP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORIER.--L.SCIT
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and. Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Braas and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Ctasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “ FLUSH ” “ VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM WAIER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros,, Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TANFo MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCO ATEN A.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUBLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR
OR ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “ most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon, an
Supper;” and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being aßSOlutely " all Cocoa," with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of preparations thickened yet
weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such mixtures, a teaspoouful to a breakfast
cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATTNA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in a concentrated
* form Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
CELEBRATED FOR REMARKABLY SUSTAINING PROPERTIED SPEOIALLY ADAPTED FOR EARLY
ADOpTED AS A MEDICAL COMFORT IN THE ROYAL NAVY
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in air-tight tins, at Is. 6d., 35., os., 6d.. &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Aoents,
Schweitzer & Co., 10 Adams-st., Strand, W.C., London,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
X s . is. LAmii^r,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Beg* to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OP ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at. the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
it®” A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for.
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway Station or any wharf in the eity, or
any country station, Free of Charge.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’gRUMJJ
1 Bottle OLD TOM |
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous Cases, containing the following :
i Bottles' BRANDY » 3 Bottles WHISKY T T.nwNTivs'.RmfH
I BotUe JAMAIci RUA I l Bottle WOLFES SCHNAPPS
L Bottle PORT WINK ■ 1 Bottle SHERRY WINF.
Total 18. *—» t *»»'■**
«, e artioles contained in F. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis*
actlmi to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at the Haymarket Post Office..*!
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS :1 ; v -'’ IS
p, It, LABKIH, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
C-^-XjXj
CATERER AND CONFEC
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A
Tioi^
SPECIE 1
_ "S CH O T.T o 4.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY! II p.
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also, at LONDON, MAYENCE, PARIS, and BRUSSELS.
ggp= LARGEST STOCK IN THE 0
IBS.
C. R. YOUNG’S
COMMERCIAL HOTI
GrXJLGrONTGr. - I
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVE^^J^
Wiioi) WORKING AND SAW MILIJ MAO#
11. p. GREGORY &
ho, [Are^SOLEfAGENTS^for
T. &!Co., Cinci^
And carry a Large Stockfof their Celebrated Ma° l
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING
A
Send b'OR Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, CireularQ^
u <
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want.
ANGUS <SzT~ ROBER^^P
113 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. W
Large stock o£ new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on appli ca
mail to any part of Australia.
OFFORD & CO.’S Bf
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPO
wallach beos:
i
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSfTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MDE. DE NOUYELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
fjequalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street ; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker, w t • m »•*>-
j. IiiriKKFIKLI), Chemist, 141 Iliiabetli
Street, Kertfern.
LINEN GLOSS.
T. T. EODEN CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description of
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
STOREY
auoti ° v
General Commit 011
MUSICAL
The Largest Assort ggpfi /
TOSGBOBgS 6 A,
... Price *Z>ZtO l
Send }
— tf A
|HE CLIMAX *1
mo^sV
LIME FBUI T ■
LATE HOWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for JBrated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Modal for Liqueurs
of
