

? (~
-4 ‘ r-
(For Six Weeks Only) ol
nuns, item i music
E3IO
p Unos,
v>X-
at 15 per cent, discount off list prices; ORGANS, at 25 per cent, discount off list
prices ; MUSIC, At one-third and one-fourth the marked price !
Every Instrument guaranteed for Seven Years.
time payments. catalogues and price lists on application.
JpHOLSON & CO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
sfgs
and Saw-Mill Machinery.
**' p - GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
; so Jay & co., Cincinnati
R? A LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
,Qtj ISITH for wood-working and saw-milling in stock.
Send for Catalogues and Prioes.
ore sj 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay. Sydney.
EDOODLE
<■ ' ■ it*'
On Sc SOH S
SLN E
Sg«3»gMSi
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
K CoSp^notoß
—tobacco Zl.^f
p Sydney,
aern hemisphere.
■< CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and DLrson’s Cut Tohacooe.
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
' t.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In sreat variety, from £3. Catalogues post ft’s*.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
80 LB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, tbe most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best , and Cheapest in the colonies.
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
TMPOETERB OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S 3 OH


ASK FOR COLONIAL MADE
PROOF
& PROOFS
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BT
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OP THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
Tho FACULTY pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
7 Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely •* all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
■ ? mixtures, a feast ionlui to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies keeping for years in aU climates, being in
a concentrated form Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, Ac., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., ss. 6d., <&c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
80HW# I1Z£& 8b GO., 1G ADAM-bTAEBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
BENNETT & WOOD,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
2*
QTTft V tGTOB BICYCJWS.
Our VICTOR EXCELSIOR BICYCLE
has Ball-bearings to both wheels, Hollow
Front and Back Forks, Eliptical Backbone,
Detachable Handle-bar. The following parts
are highly plated Spokes, hub, head, part
of backbone, and all back forks, step, cranks,
and pedals.
PRICE, COMPLETE,
£l7 10s.
A Large Stock of
“RUD.GKE” BICYCLES
AND SAFETIES ON HAND.
ROADSTERS, SEMI-RACERS & RACERS.
The largest assortment of evert make
in the colonies.
BICYCLES (new) from £6 10s.
Repairs by Coventry Experts.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Cut this advertisement out when making application.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Beg* to announce to Ms town and country Mends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to Ms WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
. by the proprietor,
He can therefore confidently recommend tne quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and BTOUT, OP ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of wm&KIES, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
s >> A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines an .1 spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to cuit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Irartton or Any wharf in the City* or any country station, Pree of Charge.
p» fL liapkipWishes to call your attention to his famous JB3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottled BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Settle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLF B’B SCHNAPPS - -
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
TOTAL—IB.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
•dv«a perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Or4fti payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
' “ Kindly Note the Address—*
p. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail W/ne & Spirit Merchant & Importer ,
PJjWKpJS -OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Strums, Haymabkbt, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
1 Bottle OLD TOM
McLEAN BROS. R/GG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
: 512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
c
«5
s
IRONMONGERS
512
X
o
V
o
-
<fc
9
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof, Paini,
A I bo Carbon bght.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking Stoves:— Leonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BBADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
CHALMERS, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK G 0, CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, 111 ill
Importers of
maohinbbl
ST3AM ENGINES, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMP«,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS,
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, *O.
■
"
l:RO
sTRt-m
SEHjB
office
fit®
ENG
AYSSTFIJII
YAn/J
IRON
■
■
BAR, PLATB, SHEET, and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED CORRUGATED
UUBBAB »riran 7TKTfI . VTWDT.tWBS . WTO TBAH arnrt t.BK A D • OIL®, INyfr.
ftHBET
BRUSHWARE
MONGERY, BulljJSl} hei KUBKf, ►'UKTAjUi.a, JS'IXJKJ ,«a iuuii-ru*i» w"}kk;
»nd HOK*ZONTAL BOILBRP, STEAM «n<* othei PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING, f0 TjNR lv
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMER?, ENGINEERS’ HR At®
TATENT ROLJUEK SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER. &«.
Sole Agents for PARMER. ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PoLlJiff :
ENGINES; READING IRON WORKS’AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATEN! tu
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
gar- I’riev Lists and Catalogues turmsnea on application*
ROBERTS, CHAIiMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Olio*
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, _. rß Oo*
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HA»»
SYDNEY i
- RS graoxoruroh *T*** flr
a:
.
riean " Jffixtra xoast or jtb
breakfast, luncheon. te ? ) ’ f ,llcioU s .Shi®
nothing equals them. *) “ coDJ paf
milk, superb with wine, and me
with coffee or cheese.
TURNBR & CO.,
Bole Agents,
74 Strssax
OFFORD & CO.’S HAI ®
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
g®“ Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George
K. HAMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. ease as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz.
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... 4s. per bottle,
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies 4s.
Brian Boru Whisky.. 3s.' ~
Hennessy’s * Cognag ... ... ss. ~
. 6s.
. 4s. ~
■ 4s.
.4s. ~
. Is. Cd. & 2s. 6d.
Square Gin ...
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart d 0../ ...
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids ... ... ... ... 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
■ from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, fid. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
DBJ PHOSPHOBYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and. Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Lisergy Sick Headache, indigestion,
Female ■ Complaints, Premature Decline, and H r
marvellous t. edieine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought up on the
individual as to the process. It moves the lung 3,
liver, hea t, kidney stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour . yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, andii ; i * most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
Agents—Bi&xoxs Bao®.
It4ec/j/te-wi
df
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
machinery.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
V AT
LOWEST COST!
cbaN eS
AN*
HOlST'f
e kgin eS '
m oW£ bS '
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAI
ESTIMATED FOR CC
ROBERT COOPER WEBSJ2
■k SOLE AGE
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
MelboU ri# T '
KING
Friarx psescbi'p Tt&SJjf ij?
H lllfefc be found in tbs oet>i f
LlFE,’,'for the speedy cure of We*’'*' 0 eof M
Lost Manhood, Oesparnlency. &c " f° r
this book wiii be sent poet free, S®
pemy stamps. Address—
8. WARD & C 0„ n i
*s%££%S ie ?


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 164 -New Series.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1886.
**«-««•
Land Taxation—Its Justice and Advan-
tages.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1886.
SfRANaBLY enough, the strongest objection
taken to the proposed imposition of land
taxation in New South Wales is some taint
of injustice which it is said to involve.
The objection does not turn upon the inci-
dence of the tax, [but is based upon an
imaginary freedom from State burdens,
which land is assumed to enjoy. As no
definite grounds for this opposition have,
within our knowledge, ever been stated, and
no attempt to substantiate the claim, save
by bare assertion, having been made, it may,
at first sight, seem needless to prove that
the immunity does not exist; but every
wrong idea, however baseless and illogical,
possesses influence over the minds of some
members of the community, and should be
attacked when, as in the present case, such
influence has a misohievous tendency. S trong
reasons for this immunity must be proved
before it can be reoognised, for the first prin-
ciple of Government is that the property of
the individual is held under the protection
of the State, and is subjeot to levy for the
publio good. Upon principle itis impossible
to conceive any grounds to justify, or even
favour, the total exemption of land from
liabilities which attach to every other species
of property or possession, and, as we shall
presently urge, both equity and expediency
demand that a large proportion of State
revenue should be derived directly from the
land.
* * *
Unlike every other description of pro-
perty, land is a thing whioh no man can
claim for his own, beoause made by himself.
The improvements upon it may be his own
manufacture, but the land itself cannot be*
So also with the value. Apart from the
Value of improvements, the market price of
the land must consist entirely of unearned
increment. The latter fact is not usually
comprehended as it should be. If a Sydney
Bite is worth £.OOO per foot, every penny of
ibis is Unearned increment. Once the land
was not worth the smallest ooin of the
Vealm: all of its present value has come to
it by process of development of the colony.
The Btate has given to the land every penny
of its surface value: to the State therefore
m all equity a return is due by the holder
lor his security of possession. Here we
would willingly follow Henry George in
ar guing that the whole value which the
State has made should belong to the State,
out suoh an argument would go beyond,
though not entirely away from the present
Bu bject. There is another point which tells
strongly against the supposed immunity
fom taxation of the land monopolisers, and
is contained in the fact that the land is
estate. The protection of Government
onl y extended to property withia the
erritorial limits, and, on the other hand
th°f eC^l ° n mus t *>9 given to all who have
6 r Property or domioile there. Therefore,
<rit* >rOteotiOn is guaranteed to the State ter-
Tro° ry an< * t 0 men and P r °P ert y upon it,
th© 31 tlle territor y itB ®i c should rightly come
cost of maintaining the guarantee,
is th D ’ the whole wealth of the State-that
p’ , e Bum °f all individual and cor-
land * 6 Wea * tb ~has been derived from the
Prod' from the land, and wealth the
futup 100 ]and ’ must be drawn the
■eomm 6 additioES a Sgregate riches of the
bbsurd 1 ? Saoh being the position, the
Pfitha 1 abo wing the possessors of the
fao!lor of al i wealth, the land, to
State sh 6atire sum of thelr liabilit y to the
°uld be plainly apparent. Equity
is strongly opposed to such an indulgence,
on the contrary, it demands that the obli-
gation should be fully enforced.
* * *
National expediency also strongly favours
this form of taxation. All other taxes,
direct or indirect, either act, like income
and property taxes, as a penalty upon in-
dustry, or else limit consumption by in-
creasing the cost of the commodity upon
which the impost is levied. An unimproved
land tax would operate in a totally different
manner. It would not be a tax upon in-
dustry, for, as we have seen, it ie the State,
not the man, that creates this taxable sur-
face value; nor would it limit enterprise as
a property-tax necessarily must. If houses
are subjected to a tax the supply of new
houses will be restricted until the demand is
PROFESSOR ANDERSON STUART.
(Photo, by Boyd.)
sufficient to raise the rate of rent so as to
oover the amount of taxation. In this latter
case the tax is borne by the tenant. But the
supply of land cannot be restricted, and as
the tax is levied only upon what we may
call its “area value,” whether it is lying
vacant, or is covered by a £lO,OOO building,
matters not, the amount payable to the
State will still be the same. The land-tax is
thus a bonus to industry, for those who turn
their estates to the best use, and improve
them the most, pay the smallest propor-
tionate Tato on the annual rental. Nor does
the tax fall upon the consumer, in this case
called the tenant. On the contrary, any
possible effect of the land-tax will b© to his
advantage if he rent tho land for the sake
of the house upon it. As we have shown,
the owners who improve their land most by
building thereon escape with a lower per-
centage of tax on their annual return.
Here, then, is a direct incentive to increas-
ing the supply of houses, which exceeding by
reason of this new impetus, the demand,
will certainly be let at a lower rate of
rent. Upon the landlords the whole of
this taxation will fall; it is not, therefore,
remarkable that Sydney Bcxbdbkin, now
M.L.A. for East Sydney, strove to replace it
by an excise on beer.
* * *
Expediency is also to be estimated by the
revenue a land-tax would produoe. It is
foreign to the present purpose to go into
figures and state precisely what amount
may reasonably be expeoted to accrue to
the national coffers, for the effect will be
similar in all save degree, hovevtr many
thousands are raised. For the opening of a
new source of revenue will enable legisla-
tors to.lessen the heavy demands upon other
channels of supply. It would be possible to
make the land-tax act as a substitute for
some of the impolitic, unjust, and burden-
some duties now levied upon the necessaries
of life. If suoh duties on artioles whioh
cannot be produc-d here were given up, the
decreased cost of living would afford an
immense impetus to toe manufactu . « t
dustries, for the labourer oould then profit-
ably work for a lower wage. Hitherto an
entirely different policy, miscalled Free-
trade, has ruled New South Wales, Foreign
manufactures have been admitted free,
and the oost of production -within the
colony increased by means of heavy imposts
on the fuel of labour—the necessaries of life.
Not less than 12% per cent, of the value of
tea, % of the cost of tobacco, and l-4th of
the price of coffe© goes to the State by way
of tax, and so on with other necessary com-
modities. Yet while the poor mechanic
cheerfully pays 10 per cent, of his scanty
breakfast towards the expenses of Govern-
ment, the Bubdekins of the Assembly and
Ai.ixa.ndeb Campbells of the Council
would try to get the required revenue out
of colonial beer or anything else rather than
pay a wretched 2% per cent, of their own
ample land revenues. Two and a half per
cent.— 6d. in the pound 1 Why Tom the
navvy and Bill the boundary-rider pay
more than that to the revenue in buying 3s,
worth of tea or a quarter of a pound of
tobacco. Riohes and miserable selfishness
usually rest beneath the eame roof.
* * *
A very great advantage attendant upon
land tax would be its power to break up
most of the immense estates whioh are the
curse of many of our inland towns ; huge
areas are worked with one man and a cross -
bred collie* while their owners hold on for
the increment which comes to them because
of the industry of others. It pays many a
landowner to dear only 1 per cent, out of
his estate if the unearned increment is at
the same time adding 10 per cent, more to his
land-capital annually; but with a land-tax
taking away a full fifth of that 1 per cent.*
and the money value of the land perhaps
actually declining, he would [soon find it
necessary either to make better use of it
himself or else sell it to someone who could
do so. This consideration brings us face to
faoe with the objection that “ the land-tax,
by reducing the value of the land, decreases
the wealth of the community.” But it must
be remembered that this price, which some
mistake for wealth, is merely its value in re •
lation to other commodities ; the land is
always of the same area and quality, how-
ever much its market value may fluctuate.
If land that was formerly valued at Is. is
now sold for £5 per foot, this does not
show that the sum of national wealth
has increased by the stated increment.
Appreciation of land-values may be a sign
of prosperity, but doe.' not represent an
actual increase of wealth. To argue the
oontrary would be to assert that running
up the price t f its scrip increases the value
of a mine. In this latter case men advance
the price, because they are assured of the
prospect of oommensurate returns, but the
veriest fool who ever invested in shares in a
mine, never believed that the richness of
the ore was increased by the higher estima-
tion in which those shares were held. But
in reality there is no depredation of the
land-value, although, as between buyer and
seller, lower prices may rule. What takes
place is somewhat after this fashion. Let
it be supposed that the land, immediately
before the tax is imposed, returns 4 per
cent, of its oapital value yearly by way of
rent or otherwise; the State, by imposing a
tax of %d. in the pound on that capital
value takes, say l-20th of the annual rent re-
turn. Then the owner finds that he now
receives only 95 per oent. of his former
return, therefore the estate is worth to him
only 95-100;hs of its former capital value,
the other 5 per oent. being, as it were, taken
by the State to produoe the yearly tax. For
the State, by levying the tax, appropriates
as much of the property as will produce the
tax eaoh year. The land-value then does
not aciually depreciate, but is divided be-
tween the private and the public owner.
Estimating the; return of all taxable estates
at an average of 5 per oent. per annum, a
land-tax producing £300,000 should reduce
the total of their selling value by £4,000,000,


which amount would then represent the
share of the State in lands held by private
owners.
• • •
This digression concluded, we may re-
sume consideration of the tendency and
power of a land-tax to break up large
estates. The aotion would possess preven-
tive as well as remedial virtue. To relieve
the colony in some degree of the fetters of
land-monopoly is undoubtedly a large
benefit, but to ensure against the operation
of oauses which are working up to a fearful
social eruption in Borland, is a labour
worthy of all true patriots. It is to Great
Britain that we mustlook for an adequate in-
stance of the evil of the aggregation of real
estate in a few hands. Here are statistics
taken almost at random, to show the extent
of the existing monopoly thereOne-
fourth of England and Walei together, is
held by 693 persons; two-thirds of Scotland
by 320 men; while in Ireland one-half of
the total area is in the hands of 730 owners;
One English peer receives London ground-
rents amounting to £300,000 a year, and the
reversions will produce £1,750,000 annually;
another has a present revenue of £170,000
from the same souree, with reversion to
£1,500,000; and several others have similar
incomes and reversions, but little below
these in value. While on the other hand, as
we have recently been informed by high
authority, very nearly one-sixth of the
whole population of the United Kingdom
are paupers, wholly or partially dependent
upon public charily. One million of the
residents of London—that triumph of civili-
sation—are said to be without sufficient re-
sources to ensure them a single meal, and
the applicants for parish relief increase far
beyond the synchronous increment of the
whole population. While the senseless ex-
travagances of aristocratic imbeciles and
blackguards daily reach new heights,
the deep wail of anguish from outcast
London each day grows more acute and
desperate. Occasional recitals of suffering
lift for a moment a corner of the veil which
enshrouds the homeless and helpless, and
affords a faint idea of the depths of misery
to which the poor have sunk. The mute,
passionless, enduring heroism of the famish-
ing thousands defies the power of descrip-
tive eulogy. A mighty and hopeless multi-
tude endure the lingering death by gradual
starvation rather than rise in violation of
the laws which are slowly forcing them out
of existence. They mutely suffer the cruel-
est of oppression rather than infringe the
law which their ruthless and insolent oppres-
sors have made. Endurance, patience, hero-
ism such as theirs finds not its equal in the
story of the oolleagues of Leonidas, the
annals of Christian martyrdom, or the re-
cord of Waterloo. The fierce Italian would
long sinoe have plunged his stiletto through
the heart of his oppressor; the Frenchman
would have made London re-eoho with a
fierce 11 A has les aristocrats,” as his fore-
fathers did Paris nearly a oentury since; the
Spaniard would have resorted to robbery
and murder long before he permitted his
sufferings to reaoh the aoute stage ; but the
law-loving English pauper starves and dies,
as his successors in ever-inoreaeiDg hordes
will have to starve and die, until a coming
generation learns that there is a point
at which endurance oeases to he a virtue,
and, simultaneously, awakes to the fact
that that point has long sinoe been passed.
The vengeance will be in proportion to the
suffering ; the triumph be measured by the
misery; the punishment be apportioned to
the past oppression. If a land-tax in New
South Wales were to do nothing more than
avert such fearful misery, and so terrible a
retribution, it would still, without reference
to present national gain, be the duty of all
who are patriots to their own country to
give it their strong and unselfish support.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Which Madgwick?
TfiE Sydney D.T., in a aub-leader, inquires if
the Reverend E. B. Madgwick, who set his
clerical blucher right square down on the Home
Rule movement, and solemnly protested against
the presence of Sir Henry Parkes, Sir P. Jen-
nings, Mr. Barton, and other members at the
meeting held on Monday to encourage the in-
famous Gladstone in his firebrand designs upon
the unity of the British Empire, [is the same
Mr. Madgwick who has figured as chaplain
of the Orange institution. We hope he is.
One Madgwick at a time is about a fair
thing for a young country like this. We
Know he is, when we read what he has
to say about it. The voice is the voice of the
defunct William of Boyne, Madgwicked by the
" long result of Time.” In support of his “ solemn
protest ” against the assembling of a few publi c
men to sympathise with the noblest effort of one
of the noblest and bravest men God ever created—
an effort that aims at giving a small instalment of
justice to a nation as foully wroDged, and as brut-
ally misgoverned as ever a nation was—he airily
refers to the financial state of New South Wales at
present, and thinks anything more ill-judged could
hardly be conceived. If he had also pointed
out that there are mile-3tones on the Dover road,
he would have rounded his protest to a lucid and
telling period. There is, in all this reverend
gentleman has to say, an underlying malevolence
and stupidity that “ will not down.” If the signa-
ture had been Feargus O’Connell M‘Gladh-
righan, instead of E. D. Madgwick, we should
still have scented the L.O.L. and cried “ Fie! . .
What a savour. . . Bring civet!” It isn’t any
good, reverend sir. It doesn’t matter how you
protest, or how solemn you are over it. The
slow—too slow—atonement of Home Rule must
oome to the unhappy island soon, and all the
weak childishness of Orange lodges, and all the
high devilry of lodge-fed sectarian hatred, is too
weak to delay it much longer, don’t you forget
that. It is Kismet, and your sweet following must
bow to it as they have bowed to the Disestablish-
ment blow administered long ago by the same fist,
and look as amiable as things will admit. Neither
prayers nor curses nor printed incoherenoies oan
bar the inevitable “Out, and clear the way.”
♦
Borne Buie Wins.
It was a mighty and enthusiastic multitude that
assembled in the New Masonic Hall, Sydney, on
Monday night, to declare sympathy with, and ad-
miration of, Mr. Gladstone and his Irish pro-
posals. There was no mistaking the thorough
genuineness of sentiment; there was no question
of its unanimity. And the speakers spoke up to
their subj eot— spoke straight, and coined the words
from their very hearts. It was the Io triomphe ! of
a magnificent cause—the cause of Justice : a
worthy corner-stone of a noble monument erected
to the Right. Upon the platform and connected
with the movement there were the highest politi-
cians in the colony. Sir John Robeltson,
Sir Patrick Jennings, and Mr. Barton were
the most prominent actors in the scene; they
affirmed the meeting as representative of the
whole people. Whatever assistance the daily
press of the oity could give was given. Home
Rule has been recently commented on by countless
leaders, exalted by numberless paragraphs. Yet
the memory need not go far back to reaoh a time
when all these conditions were different. It is
barely three years since Home Rule was by the
Herald esteemed as a device of the Evil One;
and the Telegraph, the News, and the little
Echo could find no epithets too bitter for those
who supported it. Then the Redmonds came to
Bydney, and a fierce cry went up against them.
They were boycotted from the public halls
of the city ; no plaoe could be allowed them
wherein to plead their cause, although thei r
language was more moderate then than that
now used by Speaker Barton on the same
subj eot. Mr. Henry Copeland was almost
the only member of Parliament who had the man-
hood to appear on the platform with them,
although one other, the patriotic Dan. O’Conncr,
is said to have satisfied his national aspirations by
standing somewhere out of sight. Only one editor
of anon-sectarian paper in all Australia dared to
use his pen in the cause of J ustioe—that one was
William Henry Traill, a Scotcman and non-
Roman Catholic, until recently the managing
director and a proprietor of The Bulletin. Philo-
Hibernianism was not then respectable. Its justice
was as manifest then as now, but it had not been
sanctified by Gladstone, and the Nationalists
had not attained power and influence. The prin-
ciple then was identical with that now so in"
fluentially supported, but to affirm it then meant
personal loss of one kind or another. To condemn
it was to gain popularity. So the Herald de-
nounced it, and Sir Henry Parkes, at a faked-
up Orange meeting, aoted as denunoiator-in-ohief
of the Redmonds, their mission, and their cause.
Yet now, forsooth, the same Parkes who admires
everything that Gladstone does—would that
Gladstone could return the compliment!—shares
in the triumph of a cause of which he was but a
few months ago the fiercest, most bruta’,
opponent. When there ia glory and repute to be
gained, newspapers and politicians alike will rush
forward to claim their share; but in this apotheosis
of the Home Rule cause, it should not be forgotten
that there were some men who supported it long
ago, because of its abstract justice, and of those
the most ardent and daring were Henry Cope-
land, F. B. Frebhill, and the then editor of The
Bulletin, William Henry Traill. It is owing
in a large degree to them that the cause was sus-
tained here in its earlier stages, when the Herald,
Sir Henry Parkes, and the whole army of bigots
arose with one universal cry to bury it beneath
a torrent of prejudice and misrepresentntion.
+
The Troubles of School Teachers.
For anyone who desires to live by teaching in
the New South Wales State schools, it is far better
to be born a girl than a boy. The Department
pays far better salaries to the weaker than to the
sterner sex, and allows very much more rapid
promotion. From a recent return it appears that
male teachers in charge of fifth-clasa schools
average 36 years in age, 12>4 years of service, and
reoeive £227 14s. 51. per annum salary, but from
this must be deducted the £l2 a year paid on
account of tuition in sewing by the teacher’s
wife, thus leaving £215145. sd. as the master’s own
pay. Female teachers of similar qualification,
averaging 27)4 years in age and 7 years’ ser-
vice, are paid an average of £215 Is. 61.
only 12s. less than the malts, whose average
age exceeds theirs by 8)4 years, and who
have been in the service 5)4 years longer. Some
of the contrasts in individual cases are very glar-
ing. Miss Emma Chambers, for instance, who is
mistress of the Infants’ Department of a second-
class school, and who has only been in the service
for 2 years 7)4 months, Is paid £253; while Mr. A. R»
Roberts has served 24)4 years and only receives
£228, of which £l2 is presumably paid for his wife’s
services. Thus with equal qualification the man
is rated at £36 a year less than the woman, who is
26 years younger and 21)4 years his junior in office.
The explanation of the Department would be that
girls rarely stay long in the service—they resign
after a few years and get married, so tfcat
there is a constant need of promotions to
supply the vacancies thus created. Men.
on the other hand, rarely resign until they
are too old to continue their work. Thu?, the
chances of promotion are much smaller in the
one case than the other. Men may toil on for
20 years, and get less at the end of that time than
a sweet young thing of the opposite sex, who has
only been two years in the service. No wonder,
then, that young men of ability refuse to join a
department which can offer them so little induce-
ment. The Department may find that applica-
tions come in as readily as ever, and that they
have no difficulty in obtaining juniors, but the
quality of the recruits must deteriorate under
such a system. The apportionment of salaries
must be more just as between the sexes, unless
they desire that the rising and succeeding genera-
tions should be Instructed by a lot of dunderheads
who see no prospect of getting on in any other
profession, and take to teaching as a last resource.
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “The Bulletin’ 1
are as follows :
One year 34/- la advance
Half year 13/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Corretponientt voho give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
municationi noticed!
“James Wasleton”: Nonsense. While
Belgium has 483 inhabitants to the square mile,
and Great Britain 200, the American Republic has
only 14. And how many, tell us, has Australia ?
.... “ St. Miohael ”: Rather lame stuff...." E. A. J.”:
There is only one point of difference between
yourself and Mark Twain. He is a humourist ....
“W.J.H.8.”: There is jingle about your writing,
but not a particle of wit. Try your hand at land-
sale ads “J.F.”: We cannot say whether the
stage celebrities you mention are married. The
assertion would probably be libellous either way.
....“Undergrad”: W. C. Wilkinson ought to
be a good doctor. He is no politician....
“T.andC.”: We don’t know the Queen’s “real
weight.” We have never measured her—“J.
Rouse”: You are evidently an individual who
does things at the eleventh hour—or even at 11.45
p.m “ A.F.T.” We find that, so far, the British
taxpayer has put his hand into his pocket on be-
half of grants made to the Queen and the rest of
the Royal family to the extent of 84)4 millions
starling. The Queen has had £385.000 yearly for
49 years, and Albert the Good had £30,000 a year
for 21 years; the Prince of Wales has had £40,000
a year for 23 years...." J.W.S.’ ; There’s nothing
disgraceful in hawking fish. St. Peter used to do
it; but, of course, St. Peter wasn’t a bookmaker,
although he was a Hebrew... .“L.C.8.” (Bal-
main) : The amount realised by Mr. Pye
was £BOO. Without irrigation he made £100....
“H.J.": We don’t see why fulsome panegyric
should be howled over the grave of a man who
made his money by selling doctored spirit in
bottles bearing forged libels.... “James Spencer”:
Thanks. The Lord tempereth the wind to the
shorn banker. Other offenders are treated like
lost sinners who need to be kicked back to
righteousness ..." Borax ” (Windsor): The sug-
gestion that seamen, &0., should each subscribe a
day’s wages for a oharitable purpose is a good one,
and as soon as the Ministry lead the way the idea
should be adopted...."Oi Polloi”: We distinctly
refuse to believe that the steed driven by the
Hon. John Lucas, M.L.C., bolted on a recent, or
any, occasion when he was in the buggy. Your
yarn is as absurd as the heroism of the Richmond
Ewing....“M. J. Kierimn”: Cannot advise you in
the matter.." Ted”: You don’t say.."C.Brown”:
Mark Twain as to quantity, Max Adeler as to
quality. There is nothing more broadly humour-
ous than“ Out of the Hurly 8ur1y.”....“Ju5.”:
No fear. The men who were in the railway-
swindle won’t stand in the dock—not they. Do
you think you'd stand in the dock if you had
£100.000? No fear—you’d not go near it. We
wouldn’t “Justice” (Brisbane): Father Hug-
gard has been convicted of the technical offence
of abduction, and ordered to appear for sentence
when called iupon—the reason for that lenient
course, no doubt, being that the girl was not
taken away for the corrupt motives which ordi-
narily prompt abduction....“ Waxer”: Your com-
plaint was hardly worth [spending a penny-stamp
0ver...." M.W.J.”: Parkes may get back to power
but.he’s not back yet, by a long way. Parlia-,
ment ia bad enough already, but it isn’t yet so
mean a Parliament as that which contained
Parkes’ servile following of red-hot bigots —
“James Leitch” (Adelong) : The fact that a man
in gaol declines to see a solicitor doesn’t prove
that he’s mad. So many solicitors have of late
proved to be unmitigated rogues that a little
caution is necessary “ M. Johnstone”; We
advise (you to let them sue you, so that their
usurious practices may be properly shown up It
is not “ respectable” for a private person to lend
money at shixty per shent, but it seems quite en
regie toibe the director of a company which charges
three pounds for the loan of ten pounds for two
months. We have of late heard a good deal about
this benevolent company’s transactions, and are
astonished that its directors should have the cool
impudence to allow their names to be publicly
announced “ James Elson ”: We’ll not tell, any
more than we’ll divulge the name of the Judge
who used to be third at those charming little
suppers of defaulter Holt and the fascinating
Miss . We’ll die first. He’ll hang us
“T.M.”:Will consider—“P.F.”: This is rather
a matter for your local paper...," Gus”: Ineffec-
tual in present form; would stand elaboration
“ L.0.L.”: No, we don’t say that being an OraEge-
man is certain to make a man a fool; but we do
say that being a fool is likely to make a man an
Orangeman...."Queanbeyan”: You ask, "For
what purpose is a Police Magistrate paid a high
salary if he does not attend to his duties ?” Is it a
conundrum? “A.H.”: Your poem was your
letter of introduction totheW.P.B “Maud”;
Please send a match with your next little poem
....“A Lover of Good Poetry” (N. Melbourne)
Thanks for cuttings, which will prove serviceable*
We have an opening for a poet like John
through the top-storey window “Moleskin’*
(Silverton): Glad to have items “Workman”
(Newcastle): Will endeavour to notice the matter.
“ E.8.T.”: A lady who travels by train with a
“ steerage ” ticket is rather a phenomenon, but we
fancy we have met the female in question before.
...."Winchester” (Bundaberg): Under the cir-
cumstances the best thing to do is certainly to
murder somebody—the right man if possible; but
if you can’t find him, better shoot somebody who
can be spared as an example ...“ Anti-Q.”: We’ll
take the thing in hand...." W O’C.’’: Will read
and consider....“ Bumble”: She is called “Honor-
able” because she is the daughter of an earl
“J.S.”: Hinder has been tried once, and cannot
be indicted for killing Wolfe. ...“J. Ellis ”: It is
untrue that Gaudaur has challenged Beaoh. Gau-
daur.at latest, was warring on paper with Teemer.
(2.) Both Matterson and Kemp are to row Perkins
on the Thames. Kemp’s affair is fixed for July,
and is for £lOO aside; and Matterson’s is down for
16th of August, the historical date upon which
Beach wrested the championship from Hanlan.
BRIEF MENTION.
The River Darling is rising. Time, too.
Been in bed for we don’t know how IODg.
The Bulletin's advice to those intending
to start for Kimberley—wait for the September
rains, and then—don’t go.
Melbourne Punch states that Lake Roto-
mahana “has disappeared and in its plaoe is an
island of mud and lava.’’ As the lake is gone that
island, we presume, is surrounded by land.
Judge Powell, of South Australia, says
that for a debtor to offer 6d. in the £ “is an insult
to the court.’’ Debtors have, therefore, resolved
to retain the humble ooin in future rather than
insult anybody.
The Sydney D.T. reporter, in his wire about
Parkes at Candletown, says “ The weather was
very propitious, the sun shedding the lustre of his
rays more generously than at any previous time
during the tour.” Shedding the lustre of nia raysl
Hang it-is the sun moulting ?
A parson at Motuere (N.Z.) has got notiee
to quit because he refused to administer the
Sacrament to those members of the church who
were Oddfellows. He said that “God didn’t make
Oddfellows; they were a mere worldly invention.”
The only things the Almighty ever made were
parsons.
A boss-drover had used, in presence of his
meD, the expression “Nectar fit for the gods.”
One of the crowd noticed the favourable im-
pression that this made on the publican, and tried
it on at the next shout. “ Hooray,” said he,
“ here’s a necktie fit for—well, the rest would be
blasphemous.
Some weeks ago a “ wave of madness”
broke out in Gailicia (Austria). Observations
showed that it was travelling at tremendous speed
in a south-easterly direetion and heading for
Sydney. It arrived at the N.B.W. Legislative As-
sembly on the night of the 24th June, rather out
of breath, but in good working order.
The Melbourne Herald occasionally
sports a “ Social ” column, containing weird and
wonderful accounts of marriages and things like
that. The other day the Herald hit off a bride’s
appearance in a sweetiy original fashion. It said
she “ was young and becoming.” As Polonius
might have observed, “ becoming ” is good.
A Sydney publican has, we read, dis-
charged his sinner of a barman, because he was a
Freethinker. In future, the assistant at a high-
class Sydney groggery must be able to repeat the
10 commandments, and give a coherent account of
the wanderings of Israel in the wilderness, before
he is allowed to sell rum to the children of light.
At Moruya, N.S.W., Mrs. Mary Ann Kee
Chong sued William Colefax for pinning her dress
to a form in church. The case lasted three days,
and the excitement threatened to rend the very
foundations of society, but in spite of a magnifi-
cent speech by the plaintiff’s lawyer the charge
was dismissed. There is talk of an appeal to the
House of Lords.
A correspondent to a Freneh paper calls
Adelaide “La Rome de l’Australie.” We did not
know that a large part of the elite of the Eternal
City consists of peccant secretaries of pious
young men’s associations, Bunday-school teaching
emcezz’ing bank clerks, and swindling bank mana-
gers in full swing as lay parsons. But then we live
farther away from Rome than from Adelaide.
“At Masterton, N.Z., the Rev. J. 0.
Andrew, for failing to clear his station of rabbits,
was fined £5O and costs.” How is it, we wonder,
that a man who has given up all his goods to feed
the poor comes to own a station ? And how is it
that fie reverend one tolerates rabbits on his run ?
When we had a station we prayed the rabbits off
it. It’s just as easy to pray away rabbits as it is to
pray down rain.
A rabbiter died. Nothing remarkable in
that. But the storekeeper found him a few days
afterwards and reported him to the boss, who
said, “TakeDarkie in the spring-cart and fetch
him in.” He was brought to the head station
for Christian burial, but there was no prayer-
book, and no one was a Scotchman, so a compro-
mise was made. They planted him, and sang two
verses of “ God Save the Queen ” over his grave.
Mr. Reid recently stated in the Victorian
Parliament that “ a man named—well, Moriarty
will do—had been taken out of the Kew Lunatic
Asylum and put into the Custom House as
a draw-back officer.” The example seems to
us worth following. If the Civil Service were
periodically run into the Lunatic Asylum and the
Lunatic Asylum into the Civil Service it would
afford a pleasant change and agreeable recreation
to both parties.
We read that “a peal of eight bells ha
just been completed for Bt. Saviour’s Church,
Eastbourne, at the expense of a youDg authoress,
known as Edna Lyall. The three new bells bear
the names of the neroes of her books—DonovaD,
Eric, and Hugo.” To advertise three-volume
society novels on a church steeple is, no doubt,
playing it rather low on the law and the prophets,
but it might be worse. We have a peal in a church
near our office in Sydney, and the name of the
loudest bell, which plays the deuce with our
attempts to sleep on Sunday morniDg, must be
O’Donovan. Perhaps, however, it’s Moriarty.
A Melbourne man, one Hodnett, recently
captured a burglar in his house, and had to sit
upon him for over an hour while his brother
hunted for a policeman to take him in custody.
A Sydney man onoe did the same, and years after-
wards an intelligent detective got on the scent and
found two skeletons, one sitting on the top of tne
other. A look of patient expectation was stiff
traceable on the skull of the upper skeleton, ana
his eye-sockets were fixed on a copy of the Morn-
ing Herald with which he had endeavoured to
pass the time, while on the remains of the burglar
were found a “jemmy ” and a dark lantern. B° tn
were arrested on suspicion.
Marie Brizard I
A. genuine source of health— Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I


Mr Dibbs has lately taken
Iwearing a skull-cap in the
& 'Ouse, whereat certain of his
"colleagues make facetious remarks ro-
epee ting his bald-headed nura.
If Mr. Dibb* knew more of scripture than he does of finance, ho
“lght refer his tormentors to 11. Kings, Chap, ii., 23, 24 verses.
The nuggets found at Kimberley are disao-
pomtinglv «mall. P rom all we can ascertain
it would take one about this size to pay the
A expenses of a trip out. P y
Mr. Coonan duds that it is easy enough co milk «
cow,
The patent self-acting, aelf-windino u.!lrin<r i
hour* and produce sweet and refreshing slumber. It is ve^ 1° ° n f ° r ni,,e
'jMtrliainenc) should be without me, * simple, arid no hou»e (of
The Oerman dag was hauled
down at Samoa, the other day
(at sunset).
' 7)° H v U°! V
(I
(»* Sir John’s retirement): “ What £lO 000 for n r . \
Off Why, I've closed the door of Political Life three* ti mi T g °"
colleague, never voted me a'farthing ! " tUnes > and . «>y
Mi. Parkas, it iB said, was Unavoidably pre-
vented from attending the fjowe Rule meeting,
last Tuesday evening.
But quite another matter to get away with the
milk.
~1 thoroughly Delian- in ill. nooiia policy oi pure...,,
IrelttuJ uti * loottug of fxMiltfuJ equality With Eng-
land aud ocotluuvl My chiel apprehension of Mr.
Gladstone- measure is (.hut u may tail Ov leaving
Lreiauu still Ui a suourdiuate position ; but stt.l, os it
U accepted by the in b leaders, . should, it 1 Were in
the aunt of Coinmous,' give it a war.n support.
1 tfttre Che utaio.L faitu in Mr. Gladstone « motives
one ll Uto present Course of acuen, aud i an»
111 i#m to t~ke pari la a puouc uieeung to support
turn m tula crisis, it (lie Lueeuuujg is o/ a repre&cutuuv e
character. —Yours Isuthluliy,
SJINRX £>.KK?Efi
Topics of the Time.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
It used to be J. C. Neild. Now it is J. B.
Neild—Jaw Bone Neild.
The New York
women don’t think much
of that (one-time Aus-
tralian) masher, Kyrle
Bellew. One female
writer remarks that
"The conscious and ego-
tistical Mr. Bellew lives
with his make-up on; he
acts from the time he
leaves his bath till ihe
hour he goes to his bed.
I don’t believe the man
can snore naturally. His
bones must Bche from
continual posing. His
artificial gait and affected
expression irritate one
like a mustard plaster.
It seems impossible he
should do any mashing.”
That great musician,
the Abbe L'szt, who is
being made a god of in
England, and whose por-
trait the other day
adorned that pious littlfe
production the Sydney
Mail, had maDy ro-
mances in his eaily life.
"His great adventure
was the liaison with the
Countess d’Agoult
(Dan el Stern) who was
the mother of bis three
children. They were
Blondine, who became
Madame Emile Oilivier;
CoBima, born at Lakt>
Como, who has been suc-
cessively Madame Hans
von Bulow and Madame
Wagner; and Daniel, who
at the age of 17, died on
a couch covered with
love-letterß addressed to
nim by femmes du monde.
The Countess d’Agoult
waa beautiful, even in
her old age, and coquet-
tish to an extreme de-
gree. Her dress was al-
w ys pearl-gray covered
with lace, and in order to
make herself appear
transparent, she had her
bedroom hur g with black
velvet. Liszt and the
Countess lived in BelJag-
glo, on the banka of Lake
Como, for tears, and the
cause ©f their separation
has never been fully ex
plained. He says there
was a difference of
opinidn witn reference
to the training of the
children, who remained
■with him. Their iriends
say they separaled be-
cause he met the. one
whom he called Princess
Miriflque. At her wed-
ding feast Liszt was
seated by her; she was
only 16 and nothing more
beautiful had ever been
seen by him. Que voulea-
vous ? The mutsician suc-
eeeried in winn.ng the
confidence of the hus-
band and the love of
the bride, so that when
they left for Italy, their
new friend erfid : ‘lf
A were to go with you ?
They were delighted, and
the “ friend ” accom-
panied them on ihe wed-
ding journey. The news-
papers talked, the hus-
band became a lit t le
troubled, but Liszt said
be was only the guardian
of so much youth and
beauty. During the con-
certs given during this
liaison, Lifztwdoll never
play until the * Princess’
was ifi her box. One
evening at St. Petersburg
the emperor, empress,
princesses, all were there,
and as soon as Liszt ap-
peared bouquets
showered from every
box. The ‘ Princess Miri-
fique’ alone kept hers—
Bhe bad quarrelled with
the maestro L’szt was
pate, kept his eyes fixed
on his innamorata, and
would not touch one of
the flowers before re-
ceiving hers. The audi-
ence understood the
trouble, and the emperor
sent his alde-de-oamp to
the ‘Princess' with the
order to throw her
bouquet ard put an end
to the scandal. She
obeyed, as women usually
obey, with reserve. She
gave her flowers to the
officer, who threw them.
Liszt took her bouquet
flrec from the floor, after-
wards those thrown by
the Imperial party The
maitre was horribly
jealous of ‘ Princrss Miri-
flque,’ and allowed no
man to pay her any at-
tention. However, he
insisted that she should
be invited wherever he
wa3 Once a German
Prince engaged him to
give a concert at Kms.
At the last moment Liszt
returned the money he
had received and refused
to play, because tha ‘Miri-
flque’ had not been in-
vited. His life with the
Princess Wittgenstein is
well known. She is the
aunt of Princess Bayn-
Wittgenstein-Say n,
whose troubles have been
mentioned before. This
arr.ie could not obtain the
annulment of her mar-
riage from the Pope, in
order to marry Liszt. He
became a priest, and Bays
that the tonsure has
saved him on earth, and
he hopes in heaven. He
is very faithful, it must
be acknowledged ; says
Maps every morning, and
confesses often. But he
has cared more for the
admiration of women
than for anything else on
earth. He must be satis-
fled, for up to the pre-
sent time he has been
followed by magnetised
women, willing for him
to leave family and coun-
try without looking back
and without regret. One
enthusiastic woman calls
herself his guardian
angel, and says she was
89nt from heaven to save
him from accident and illness. If he drops a glove
80 women are ready to out it in little pieces and
each one wear a piece as a hoiy relic,”
Prince Albert Vic 'or, the sawney youth
whom we had ia Australia but a year or two
since, will shortly be "called to the House of
Lords.” He will likely be dutfboi the “ Duke of
London.”
JOHN CASH NEILD, ESQ., M.P.
THE MAN WITH THE IRON JAW,
“He Patriotically spoke for Nine Honrs ."—Sydney D.T.
It was possibly an accident, but Attorney
Cooaan, M.L.A., was not in court when the Judge
summed up.
There were two vacancies to be filled on a
board of directors in Sydney last week, caused by
extraordinary vacancies, one Holt, the other
Heron. Both arc defaulters, and both have been
declared mad.
Out of five leading counsel at the Mel-
boarne criminal bar, four have upper and lower
sets of false teeth.
A Bill has been introduced into the French 1
Assembly for the abolition of lawyers. No
wonder, If the French lawyers are like lawyer
Coonan, of Bydney, and have clerks like the guile-
less Crick.
The congregation of
St. Miohael, Melbourne,,
have accepted the resig-
nation of the Rev. C J-
Byng, the relations be-
tween shepherd and flock
having become too much
f trained to allow of
further Christian inter-
course. St. Michael sent.
Mr. Byng to Sydney for
rest and recreation, withi
an alleged stipulationi
that he was neither to>
preach nor to leoturei
during his holiday, they/
rightly considering thatt
as they paid for the Wordl
they should have it to the)
exclusion of all other
sinners. Mr. Byng, how-
ever, is no more capable
of hold'ng his jiw than
we are ourselves, and
transgressed this regula-
tion—hence the rumpus.
The congregation have,
therefore, resolved to get
another parson, and to
muzzle him when hegoes
for his annual holiday, so
as to prevent a repetition
of the trouble.
Mr. B. Q. Davies,,
member for (also known
as the Beloved of) Tar-
nagulla, in the Victorian)
Assembly, holds the)
gaudiest billet south off
the line It was madeo
especially for him andl
fits him like a glove. R*
is this will make Tomr
souths water I-Taster
of Refreshments on the
Railways I and gets £3OO
a year for it t How many
deserving men are there
going about with cracked
lips and calcined tongues
who would gladly flu nj fl
position for nothing I
The streets are black with
them. Fancy the Mephis- .
tophelian joy that must
possess the soul of a man .
who can load himself up ,
to the chin with any/
liquor he Jikes for noth-
ing—and get raid for.-
doing itl It simpiy tran-
scends utterance It is aa
wild and fantastic visiom
T a grotesque but splen*-
did dream. And yetitifc
a rich and juicy facfe««s
any one would raadf'fly
“etthftW-
est Welshman
aoices in the billets
ls .- a , humorous,
twinkle in his eye,
warmtn i a bis palm, and,’
geniality about
his whole beanng which
marks him at once as the
man who draws £3CO a
year for tasting lefresh-
T- anti .
the duties of his office
conscientiously.
Some men can never
wait for anything. You
may notice that some-
times if you happen to be
standing at a Btreet-
corner which is consider-
ably used as a render,
vous. There is sure *),,
be one man there who ,
has
with another and is there ,
on the spot to the mlDute ,
While the other isn’t. The ,
man you are observing
walks up and down two 1
or three times with a.
vexed expression on his*
face, loots at his watchi
half-a-dozen times intwqy
minutes, curses inwardly,
looks up and down each
street, stops, and staDoa
fl'Bt on one foot and tbea
t“ e other, and thee,
with a muttered blas-
phemy, plunges off about
his business, and lets the
otoej man do the same
wtea he arrive?,
which he generally does
in a state of short-winded-
ness and perspiration flve
minutes afterwards. Yes,
some men can never waff,
and of such was a cabinet- '
maker in Border Town
(SS.a.), who committed
suicide the other day at
the age of 80. He could
not wait till Death came
lor him in the old- .
fashioned, respectable
way. but be must go and i
shuffle eff the ceil for •
himself. And at 80 years i
of age, tool Crossed in.j
love, no doubt.
The rumour tha ti
Bishop Dunne, of Bris-
bane is to be l.lied up a
step, creates no surprise.
The practice of the R.O
Chuich is to buttress o’
nity with dignity *F*
cardinal without ' A
archbishops seveial
looks ls isoh und him
archbishop <»ted as an
several without
meuy’- .shops. Forsjm-
bour j sake are
tic .a to temoreeleva-
’’ ls than that of Dr.
Runne. In himself, Dr.
Dunne is a man with
many claims to ecclesias-
tical promotion. He is a
scholar, and possesses a
line pen and an eloquent
tongue. He has lived in
many lands, and con-
sorted with many varie-
ties oi people. These
travels have done him
good, inasmuch as they
have rubbed the corners
off his character. He at
present bg3 no corners.
To the militant, the tem-
pestuous, the knights-
erraot of truth, tbis is
small recommendation.
Hence, however, all
classes in Queensland re-
spect him. Übirersal re-
spect connotes, we think,
the possession of woman-
ly virtues as opposed to
manly ones. Still they are
virtues. The bishop is
abstemious to what might
be called an extreme, is
still a lover of books, is
sensitive, retiring, and
UQcfficious, and js puncti-
liouts.y cautious about
sayirg anything to create
controversy.
Lady Florenoe Dixie, heroine of the anti-
Fenian-dog story, which the Australian dailies
swallowed and gushed over a while blbc®i has


; 3hen C r°obftl!)v r^ a o rd , as . an enthusiastic Home Ruler.
veracity. ab y want 9 to mend h ®r reputation as to
10 Egsrpt *» m6
LaX e L ,? ndou fashion paper th
liady Rosebery has an unmatchable coachman
m Fa “ n y Simonsen, in Melbourn
Salfttmf y «nH a be s’ , Bhe has 38 pupils. Good f
iSt&eehivf. ° r the puplls * Sffeet hon
Archbishop of Melbourn
'of th(fPhrii an °°“Pared with the found
or tne Christian religion, he makes aulte a resnen
■able appearance in the Probate Court. P
fnr m °F e sraceful or appropriate tit
for Prince Albert Viotor tbaa “Duke of Ma
bourne ? asks the Argus. Why, Duke of Woo
loomooloo or Earl Pinohgut, to be sure!
f Bee that Sir Charles G. Duffy isahapp
third 18 a 80n thl9 time. and th
Li il?i 4by th® third wife. So that Sir Chari
still belongs to the “ Young Ireland Party.”
imperial and colonial Government
JJJ-® jL Q correspondence on the subject of the pro
*v. d establishment of a Heralds’ College in eac
?w e fd UBtrall ? n ? apltal9 * It is Iratifyfng to fIS
fatal £X n our o^fl al Bt fammei° ’ g6r BUggeBtS th
e llB °’ K T ane > the tribune of Charter
St^in^ni a T JoBep h Chamberlain’s scheme fo
retaining Irish members in the Imperial Parlia
ment. Not altogether on political grounds, how
i?j j e . y fußlish Parliament,” he is cer
tain, would die of sheer stupidity.”
F hat imprisonment for deb
has been abolished in N.S.W. is just as true as tha
N.S.W. has all along been a free-trade colony
are now seven men incarcerated in the
?hL t 0 w t rd ft t Darilnghurst prison. Twol ol
these have been there over 15 months.
. A counsel (now dead) onoerushec
into the N.B.W. Crown Solicitor’s offioe and ex
« lai “ ed: T . I K Eay ’ Wi i llams ' 1 want that cheque
badiy. Ive borrowed money from the bank and
wmL™ P^ 8 perceßt ”, “Well,” retorted Mr
Williams, I suppose you’re lending it at 100 per
c@ut. r
Mr. Green, who was so dangerously
wounded at Bourke some months ago by a
would-be murderer, who subsequently committed
suicide, is now located in Dr. Harman Tarrant’s
private hospital. He is paralysed, and can hardly
hope to thoroughly recover, but his pluok may
help him through. *
A sensation has been caused in Melbourne
by a Mrs. Kemp, who, as a witness in a divoroe
case, has produced in court an album-full of like-
nesses of the frequenters of her notorious estab-
Jishment. This unique portrait-gallery is an ex-
traordinarily comprehensive one, and includes the
pictures of many persons high in Victorian “so-
ciety.
Insolvent: “WilliamLuscomb©Searelle,of
Sydney, musical composer. Liabilities, £656 10s.:
assets, £4O. Out of one court into another. How
about the costs of the successful defendant in the
»cdon Searelle v. Chambers? A verdict for the
£2OOO claimed from the doctor would evidently
have been a godsend to the enterprising com-
poser.
There is something amusing about the way
In which so-called English amateur cricketers are
subsidised by their clubs. Mr. W. W. Read, for
instance, was lately presented with a chi que for
£2so] by the Surrey club. It was a weddiDg gilt.
If Mr. Read puts in some goodsoores durlDg the
season ho will probably get another cheque as a
christening present for the first baby.
Dr. Wilkinson, M.P., who wants to teaoh
more pathology at Sydney University, and to get
more money for doing so, has had his apdication
refused ty the Senate. Surely the body which
conferred the pathological lectureship on this
modest and illustrious young statesman should be
willing to give him increased remuneration for
"devoting more time to the subject.”
That much abused warrior, the Duke of
Cambridge, is being slandered again. A disloyal
paper asserts that when he is within ten miles of a
camp and half-a-dozen men are killed by sun-
stroke, he wires home about "desperate fighting,”
while Eyoub Pasha, after burying about 400 dead
Turks and 1200 Greeks, who had given up being
Greeks and started in business as angels instead,
strokes his beard and reports a "skirmish.”
When the gluttonous Roman Emperor
graced the arena, the beaten gladiator's doom was
sealed. Huge appetite and brutality are twin
brothers. The biggest eater in Australia is a
merciless judge who, when on low diet, takes a
whole leg of mutton and a magnum of cham-
pagne at obg sitting. It would be as well-sa as to
hold the animal in check—to put this gentleman
on prison-fare while the Criminal Court is sitting.
“ Arthur 8. Ogilby, secretary and treasurer
of the Dime SavlDgs Bank of New Brunswick,
N.S., which lately suspended, was a defaulter in
the sum of 80,000 dols. To save him from prison
his friends tried to raise the amount, but being
unable to get the full sum had him adjudged a
tunatic and committed to an insane asylum.” So
they do it in Amurriker, do they ? We thought it
was an original Sydney trick, based on a £lOO COO
transaction.
Sir William Clarke, the Viotorian Bart.,
paid £lOO for the royal box at the opening of the
gaand colonial show. A London paper calls this. I
“ a wicked sum.” We should call it a derned good
sum, and we do trust that the unobtrusive baronet
duly caught his monarch’s beye and took his
money out in regal smiles. The wonder is that the
ghost of Clarke iere dida’t arise in his wrath and
expostulate with sou William for slinging away a
cool “ century ” for a sight of a stout old lady of
67.
The wreck of the Ly-ee-Moon is likely to
provide plenty of food for the equity lawyers.
Last week application was made in the Melbourne
court for probate to the will of a Mr. John Foote.
Mr. F. left home with the intention of going to
Bydney. Nobody knows what boat ho went by,
but somebody of the same name did book for the
Ly-ee-Moon. There the clue is lost. No John
Foote got on to the rock or has been washed
ashore since. Probate was refused. Unless an
influential spiritualist can throw a little light on
the case, Mr. Foote's heirs are not likely to get
ahead with their probate.
lie the exodus of the gingerbread princes
from France, as reported by cable iast week, it
seems that tho delectable Prince Napoleon and his
son Victor are going to quarter themselves at
Geneva. Young Victor is the only one of the
whole crowd who stands the remotest chance of
ever getting his head inßide a crown. French
national sentiment may rush him into the purple
some day or another on account of his extraor-
dinary jesemblance to the "Little Corporal.”
When, as a mere youth, he attended the funeral
of Napoleon 111. in England, Victor Was “ faked
up ” to lock like a miniature ghost of the founder
of the family.
Here is a newspaper clipping—we do not
knowhow old:-" It la worthy or record that a
lady. Mrs. Sarah M’LeJland, has died at Kiama,
N.S.W., at the ripe old age cf 114. She was the
sister of the late Mr. Armstror g, of Kiama, who
died at the age of 111. A sister died at 98, and a
cousin at 103. They were natives of the oounty of
Fermanagh, Ireland, but were long resident in the
Kiama district. The cousin, a Mr. Walmsley, died
at Wingecarribee. Mrs. M’Lelland’s intellect was
unimpaired till within a few weeks of her death,
when a cancer set in which terminated her life.
Her sight was perfect, enabling her to thread the
flnest needle.”
It is not for kings, oh ! Lemuel, to drink
strong wine; neither is it for embryonic kings to
8 & H l4 BfCecta their manners. In the event of
onu^ lrince ,i )f^ Wale , 8 . comin * to th® oolonies the
well t 0 weigh carefully any pro-
posal to give him the entree,. Every one (who was
any one in 70 or so) knows that H.R.H. having
lost money at the Carlton, threw the sovereigns on
Thoww,' whe( 3 80 “ e of th em rolled on the lioor.
told toF'waif e4 *fl e * to aoooiint them as paid, and
Sev "mF&S&PI Prlnce had dr °PP ed
Sse or* ninJ\?„ u 2L ph ’ however, refused to apolo-
Rise or pick up the money. Next week a now
by hl i 3 i v , waß h'ackballed. Ditto
rwa J d8 ’ aQd the Carlton rooeiyed and
member. th retlrement of Its distinguished royal
“ Captain” Soott’s speech at the first of the
in EniruS3 U w« in honour of the Australian Eleven
Wifh g tonohT aS quite a masterpiece of modesty.
••cricket^?,od^n ?nan , mlty , he observed that
fitovi.—* le velled all ranks, and they should show
the same respect In the game for the man who had
been brought out ef the turnip fleW as to the
member of the House of Lords.” Those words if
brouffht P nfnoh ia tf l e London dailies, must have
the En h vli?h nroa C °%h ort and j ,? y to the hearts of
ine jfinßiiBQ pros* They may have had mlPxHvinfra
"Our'°Bovs” W i t Mt« e hii e ® a and Bertio had made
uur Boys a little bit orty, and intolerant of
out of turnip-flelds. But now they know
that Soott and his gallant band will. from the
Ulyett aWrrisf trU ® greatneB8 ’ Bml1 ® «hke upon
Rr^;P of Broffne and Little, died in
BrisbMe a week or so ago, at the age of 67 years
tafnpd been in the oourts sinoe Queensland ob-
I mn^ r v. tlon ’ ? nd J n ail quarters of Australia
falrFv fSi hiP w hp witness that he worked
nnn!V°? i} ,s 6s * Bd * Little sums tot up in the
nno? e r f Wme. and Mr. Browne kept his eyes
?ntorpnt° r T? lea IDB 1 D8 of making more than Ibank-
mterest. He almost took the whole of the Bris-
SBf COURIER Into his back parlour. Finally he
companv OW Mr t0 R thlrd Bhare ln the good 9 “ tbit
company. Mr. Browne was never brilliant He
tlous Pa In t di^d fir, « a Pl ° ddln,r ’ J f and arldiy ooDs’oien-
iious. Indeed, as we write, a lately.deceased
on^titled 8 +h 6f °fh us 88 a companion pic-
rure, the one titled, the other untitled. But. if Mr
n. n ?v, WaB untitl . ed ' he has left a titled son-in-
law In the person of Sir Ralph Gore.
nf B w e I a P‘ er Broome. Governor
oi Western Australia, ia a very hauffhtv r>nr-
deongf’ and „has a poor opinion of the Archime-
dean lever ”asit is worked in W.A. A Perth
flnd e oii P t a^h e »t°VH l V ;elll^, h °w a reporter, wishing to
what his Excellency said to a small boy
au , ound < fnr°?ho 1 '^ 0 ? at . B °me locai;sports,l scoured
Sn'rfhi for th ® Private secretary, and, failing to
tLri«n^’th 0U & ded up the Acting-Colonial Becre-
and JriA and prevailed u Pon them to
go and beard the Governor on his behalf. A replv
?‘A® nt baok to the effect that H.E. “ declined to
hfinriv^oo^ 8 . o ' l with the Press except through
thl P ni«ot e And to think, murmurs
wna P hESLTC qUOte from * that his Excellency
That’s wl f R o oEce a ye P 0 u rt er on the Times.”
US cr tb i? reason why he keeps clear of re-
there”’ H knowß what they are - He has been
fpl lS^ in S per jury appears in a country
paper.— When Mr. Burdett Smith made some
station the Maoleay he speculated in a
™?n down south somewhere which he now
owns. Just previously to the last lambing the
KT«/i red 5° ¥ aBkl °* tor a remittance, as
h® deBi .red to put extra hands on. The genial and
Fn^h!» e i a 7 or is?m? n t ed ®mith showed the telegram
to the only M Elhone. who Immediately, on peru“
it* remarked: ’Why, Bob, they're getting at
had no ex P erlence on stations.
i«™l^ ph b ?.? k !i2 you J manager to postpone the
R a^fu n f. unfci . 2 fter shearing.’ And R. Burdett
Rmnn’ Commissioner to the Colonial Indian Exhi-
bition, the friend of princes and the courted of the
heautyof N.S.W., actually did so. He still sur-
J a y 2flJ ,ut ou® unknown corpse found floating on
a southern river may acoount for what became of
vae manager.
Here’s a tale they tell of bluff old M .
known Dar 1 1?? pioneers, and still
Known as the King of Louth. During the 44 king s 99
prosperous times he had In his employ a man, who.
-h y strict unsobriety and a punctual neglect of
business, had succeeded In working himself from
innßn Bitioa °mA millionaire to that of a dead-beat
party being engaged putting up
8 T Ji. a onQ day, the boss came along,
and, seeing how the worx was beiDg scamped, told
h a ®Hß amp ? r t^ at lf he couldn ’t do better than that
to d bay ®, tp c , l f ar ’. This got the other’s badk up
annito a ?PS e ’ , and ’ throwing down his
spade, he sneered, You ve got a d—l of a lot
kfffiih! 1 you ,.°wn a well-stocked station,
i? u .. remember the time when yon had neither a
bullock nor a sheep.” “Just so,” replied the old
5«« n £ e^( i u * e h l i y ; rn\? nd 1 remember the time when
you had both. That closed the conversation.
A few weeks back we mentioned that the
ak Holkar had presented his Indian ad-
with his own weight ia gold in celebration
oLt SUPPosed recovery from an attack of jungle-
Juto?sto 0r 1+ 0 ? 16 * ether ailment peculiar to the
b . 6 u hoped there was no delay
P'eoei, because the poor
potentate has, according to a last week’s cable-
*ram. since died. This Holkar was one of the
JFFP" 8 2 rv * D^u°2war(^ y impostors who are humor-
ously described as loyal to the British Crown.”
He was anxious to slaughter his ducky fellow-
at the time of the Mutiny; but the
troops under his command refused to gratify the
ftoito ambition of the Prince. No matter,
made himself right” for the remainder
M a h a .o?J i a h ° d the Br i of this false-hearted
Maharajah has provided a text for Tory sermons
jects ”h 6 devotloQ of Her Majesty's Indian sub-
A complaint reaches us from a saddened
f*®°? “man at Silverton, who is awaiting the slow
F£22?i 3 2 f !° av «n?e bis wroDgs. The
? g f rle7 ? d ,F arty ’ ‘.‘‘PP 681 ' 8 ’ Paid an evening visit
fPm t r°,J adie . 8 - l i eBld l D vs. la that towr) , and at the
time of entering their house he was in good
travelling condition, having as many legs as a
hind-quarter of mutton. One of his supports,
however, was of gumtree material, and the ladies
mootion this tears of sorrow—assailed
him and took it off, thus reducing him to the help-
K“ t ' 3 f nd i ! 0 I1 n f of a music-stool, and then robbed
bum of £JO at their leisure. They were committed
i rlal ’, ba i l be , ln, f flxed afc £s °. and the Gaui with
inFn e e U to’ y eF t 1 8l 2 g waB J UBt rejoicing at the pro-
spect of their languishing in prison, when an
orange-coloured heathen from the Flowery Land
appeared on the scene, remarked—“ Welly good
mf 86 .?? y —an d forked out the £5O required.
Chinamen would a bill to cremate all
r *. -Fv. Hunedin, N.Z., was once
arrested by a new mimber av the foorce ” tor
carrying a mattrass blankets, food, &c° to a poo?
sick woman, who had been reported to him as
being in a destitute state ln a crib in Morav Place
The “mimber,” notwithstanding thf doctor bt
lng vouohed for by a gentleman riding bv in-
sisted that Doctor Stuart should carry the swag to
the station which was do e. When S rg ant
Stlto < a Cri meanmaD) saw the doctor's face he
was thunderstruck. “ What’s this ?” said he to the
“mimber.” “I arrested him for having property
“ oarrv 0 “, Now ’” fiSS?
just you oarry that swag where the doctor war
going, and No 99. see that he do.s it, and bring
the mimber’ back.” Next morning, on parade*
the "mimber ” got into trouble. Toe other boys
aar as "{aiJf®'-us”“S
klidl”?k“o“o°r! tlle the
township in
whioh, according to telegram, Mr. John Gane,
sleenyTiUlf hollow hiB brains out, Ha
tto^Ft 7 in the re Eion of the Barcoo.
Thnli Of hnah oFi.-Ha maffbag' It was the Ultima
i ? xuGiviliaation* ftlaDy years aero two
th ? Pla mfandwenfsouth-
The?e wiro tho 4 Wh^ esert in search of fortune,
ihese were the Whitmans. They found an oasis
down there, and unyoking their bullccss pro-
Westerncaoitol ft l ou f tioM of the fuFure
hiiifr obFitoSwoM* They set up a store and pub., and
UhonUoA whuf re taugbt by the Pioneers to
to>a 8 nam e whioh the authori-
ii n d r h° perpetuate and abolished
o Isisford* The teleffram does not
hto to®t V? 1 "’ Gan ° t 0 b,OW h ‘ S braina OUt.
re m arKS that he was apparently in a state of
despondency before committing the act. lf old
Whittown has not greatly changed of late years,
ffve thfir2 n nn e o C / 8 ll 0 {? ld b0 * t 0 m * D Obliged to
than Spirent bU9h bank ' mana^er ’ s salary, more
canhrrdTv e h/ fla^ ig^ant ’ Lord Bt * Leonards,
the Goldin *w d t 0 h£ i vc ! sparkled In the Land of
his » ’ !? p JateBt dates. Last week
warrant w». B O M d £ ob0 ’ Beized on a distress-
police statTnn Pn f by \ uo,ion at a Melbourne
suite and nvAr^*i tmanteaux ' tin boxes - tweed
And-Sdlw rtSSS- 48 ruthlessly disposed of.
cash ho'r win? a < . lfloail L i^ eni 1-1118 ‘ordship’s empty
hard to fl a Bhll],n “' or two. It would be
thePeeraff e* and Bt u° a nfire T Mf 10 * arguments against
B«on Sf* R r i ts Privileges than we have in
are Misi^ 8 and Earl Cairns. These men
sS*n« nor dn?w vf r , om o P u rt Pimps and tnon-
families th« belon k to one of those anoient
foot that nnt .'."fti 11689 of whiod consists in tfe
i representative of them has
Oalm 1* ?„ he . d himself. No, st. Leonards and
* r%h£ <o a of , oloar-witted, sober-living
™ Tbe iu reapeotlvef athers were self-made
ditarv Wi.T£+ than ordinary ability, vet, as
are Qvin^^fa o^ B ’^ o^ 0 °l theBe well sired peers
dnnhtfnnJ 6 / 8 desirable than some of the most
doubtfully descended English dukes.
Mr. Jawbone Neild presented a very woe-
bfk?ne spectacle towards the close of his famous
tho N. S. W. Assembly. For
a h ha?r hnr Pad dington masher did not turn
nletad Jh .Sn after t" 110 60 minutes were corn-
ea back hn?p 4 n O na lra r a3Blo ? o d®loquenoescattered
aDDM?fn w mi nutes later an earnest
wrecked m fl £?u rlotlßl s , of the Australian nation
mMs d Thin h° llar an .? loft it a shapelets, pulpy
nf ed wlth the contemptible
„*!i 8 f e ?. cy of the Government, and, after three
limm m 1? ? D u f mbe /, land style, his shirtfront was as
mn P r.H B «n a t h„ff ed on u° f the Nooze, and a most
ana nfft w^ 9 hanging by a hair. About 3
with thnHneo frl ends entered into a negotiation
a!inw t fi h d P tH er ; re /i ue^ tiDß ‘hat a barber might be
him^in 4 17Rte bon - gentleman, and groom
8 h “ °wn generally, while he continued his
h 0 V Bar 2" Pointed out that it would
££(,I mp 2 88 i. b 0 or the member to make any
ne on e H^i? b^ rvatlons while he was being brushed
* ldea waB abandoned. It was equally
impossible to sew on a button while Mr. Neild
tooiinoed the iniquities of the Customs Bill, so
and for Padd inKton went on, limp, dusty,
*S d 88 L d ,ly iu want of a wash, but with his un-
dipped jawbone in good order to the last.
Dilke has taken to lecturing
®?the Crawford divoroe suit, and at Fulham, re-
baronet °diffn^ 00 *h PerBOß ' s kathored to see the
scandal 4 o( i r P 3e of that unpleasant
?P anda h and hold up the unsavoury remains to
4 jj® Lady Dilke was also present, and
caL Jun 40 ava yarded the evil-soulling car-
an^Un^Td 4 id a , , fa v° ura hle eye, while the audience
d ii * d ®cayiDg curiosity which formed
R h rl.s 4 f ndwh^ 1 * IU . of . tare - A gentleman named
hrf^i 8 U? nd 1° ad ke by his oognomeo, must
4 02 r 4 i bla Bpeoia l occasion, ocoupied
S. 0 £? all > , gave a graphicaccount of
his mental and physical sufferings under Mrs.
L raw ford s accusations, describing himself as “ a
Bl eep «» man ” whose chief 'Support was
ms wife, who, though brave almost beyond mortal
courage, was a siok and sleepless woman.” (Tre-
memlous applause.) The baronet then proceeded
to pledge his honour that the accusations against
him were untrue, and we since hear that after
Pledged it he lost the tioket, so that the
«? 4 i ah B 8:0110 bo y° nd rec »ll- Finally, a motion
of confidence was moved, and the cheek of Brass
glowed with noble enthusiasm as he put it to the
meeting, and saw it carried amid a yell of enthu-
sxasm. Surely this whitewashing of the Chelsea
Radical oannot go on for ever. It has already
gone on a good deal too long. caay
At the Hobart meeting on the rabbit-'
extermination trouble, a comparatively unknown
man arose and suggested that for the purpose of
exterminattng the rabbits suddenly, utterly, and
without any possible chance of failure, a special
day should be fixed upon some two or three
months ahead, in order to allow adequate time for
preparation and concerted action (ifsm which
the chief success of the plan depends), and on this
day in every ohuroh in the land, and in every
b °“ e where the inmates were prevented from
attending a church, special, long, and earnest
prayer-meetings should be held re this rabbit. Bv
Monday night, or, at the latest, the following
Tuesday morning, it is estimated that ah
the rabbits in the island will have been
removed ii a manner not plainly to be
comprehended by the ordinary intellectual
faculties, but, nevertheless, in a way that may be
fairly anticipated by the spirit of faith. Of course
there may be a few selfish and self-seeking indivi-
duals, who, for their own immediate profit, or
from pure oussednesj, might by the action of pri-
prayer BU cceed in saving a few rabbits from
the general destruction ; and to obviate this
possible drawback it is proposed that a sufficient
quant;i ty of specially-reserved prayer be after-
wards applied in every locality wherein a tyran-
has ar ? bed itB back - Slime the pub-
lication of this promising scheme the for
Sre down ii n prfo“ aUe “ ° fl aad pboB P boriB e d oats
i Australian poet is at present
L oosted H st North Melbourne, and his name is John
ttae. He writes excruciating verse for the North
Melbourne Advertiser, and the readers gush
o/erU.and fanoy that their little suburb fs all
Australia, and their little poet big enough to fill
In ti7ac°ri 0 r, COll4lnon4 *i. At last a suggestion appears
in all’Senousoess in the correspondence column of
John s favourite paper that an Australian laureate
8 i h h Ul » be fPP ol nted, and the writer explains that
John Rae is undoubtedly the man for the place.
His poems, we learn, are far superior to Tenny-
son s, and he only wants “a fair opening to pro-
duce gems which would eclipse in brilliancy the
sadiy-tarnished efforts of our national bard.”
Most poets produce their gems, and thus make an
opening for themselves, but John Rae wants the
opening first, and the gems afterwards. The
modest poet, however, replies to this and other
admirers, saying that “Tennyson’s masterpieces
occupy a place to which he cannot aspire.” Pro-
bably such little things as “In Memoriam” are
.I? 6 ?. 110 ’ i? e y, ond him . bit no doubt he will knock
The Brook, or “ The Charge of the Light Bri-
gade, into a cocked hat. He declares his willing-
ness, however, to enter for a competition for the
post of laurea e, and will meet allcomers in verse.
One of his best efforts appears in the same paper
and as very few great poets have ever tuned the
lyre to dLcourse of ( teak and onions, or things of
the kind, one verse is worth quoting:
“ The table In the dining-hall
Had dishes laid for nine.
At one the family heard the call
And all sat down to dine;
Each had a relish for the food,
Which was so iresh and sweet,
The soup was grand, the meat was good.
The pudding quite a treat.”
John has a great future before him if he can only
find out his true mission. Now-a-days, poetry is
used by the bootmaker and the tailor as a means
of advertising, but no restaurant-keeper, so far as
know, has ever yet set his bill of fare to music
and had the hashed mutton turned into a waltz, or
the calt s head rendered as a quadrille. The man
who can transpose a kitchen into a„dining “ hail.”
and convert soup into verse, would realise a for-
tune in this branch of industry. By cutting hari-
cot mutton into short metre, a'nd corned pork into
hexameters, he would throw a veil of true
sentiment over common every-day things, which
could not fail to elevate and refine the®
crowd who are catered for at a shilling ahead,
and if he could afterwards go down into the
kitchen and compose a lyric on the slops or an ode
to the remains of the hind-quarter of mutton the
work would be complete. As a poet in thl
ordinary acceptation of the term, however Tnhn
is absent, and he would do well to avoid 11l iubUo
comDetitlons. If the contest lay between lWnv
son dead and John Kae alive ancl thoroughlysober
-would unhesitatingly back the former and give
It i ■ Michael Davitt, one of the noblest o
Irishmen. -London Echo, 13th May.
n i an i a c was discovered iu
paddock near Prahran (a suburb of Melbourne
iH v. th j hi £best branches of a gurm™
praying’ as hard as a whole brigade of the Harm
ev ® ntua yy induced to descend—by tl
bfjbe of i. a £ Ufir 0 x tnbacc o, we believe- and w
asked why he w ent up there to pray. “ Becau
n f«S e ?u e /. Hea y, en * a £ d God caa hear better,” “
p ied the lunatic. Tboy smiled with calm t»
upon him and gently led him off to the Asylum^
mu ll6 * are advancing, and i
ind"mu 1 thflr °on m . adG i Jpon thom the 7 increas
P ii y to an » lar ming «xtent. The mon
11V h «2 n ' «> em ber forGunnedah. the badge
-he stoat, Mr. Jawbone Neild, the squirrel anc
lavXiC 9^ 11 t,ied *5 kn , ook them out and a
t al L ed * Now we understand the Iguana is t
“Y.? “ ebmme, and, in fact, that it is already
jrork and doing more destruction than any of th
>ther agents which have been employed. It i
»*>n«°^? d ’ however, that before any serious ex
o €! a l ?C U iTed*ad * a « rial Bhould be made by feiic
a | ar ge tract of country, leaving the rabb
na eh 6 i^ uana with a fair field and elbow room
awaiting the result. Shall there be hang
We read in the London Ecno of 12th Mav
v?ct?nn« h h fl E A r £ f Nenmare’s estate some terribl
y/htions have been performed by the sheriff
hlfd d r«n y hi°? po J lce ’ , one Callaghan and his six
hildren having been forcibly removed from thei
umbie homestead, the evicting party directei
arenfmh ra?i^« h ° UB h ° f anothor tenant named
aremiah Callaghan, where an affecting sight was
itnessed. Callßghan had eight young children
id when they were forced to leave their home
°iied piteously on the roadside, while their
Wk Of^evlcMnn ll^. 011 ballltfS t 0 the
*.i CCI I On * Nine other evictions, all the
r^ eID S, iQ poor oircurastances, completed
e day's work. At one house-that of a woman
‘m^ d G Connor-the tenant was ill, but as her
mdition was not Immediately dangerous no
ixTdaT* 9 extended ‘ be evictions were reßumod
f™ 111 a ® han^ hai journal we learn that
iDting P. B. Walker, of N.S.W. Torpedo Corps
'd spontaneous-banquet fame, recently dazzltd
r eG , e t Bt i a s by appearing in his full war-paint at
h ? l^u;> i aer £ by the Skobeloffs and Von
fntimr Waft'\ Brother of th ® Sun and Moon,
ipting Walkah waa a perfect pictchah, we be-
ive, andas he didgr happen to tie his legs ina
lot round his sword more than half a dezen
H da rmg the day, he managed to pose as a
o^£!i 0 r n amongst the butter-
aded braves around him. When the sickening
rnage of the day was over, a party who looked
a 0 botany cabbage - encourager,
ii ®P or^ed three peacock s feathers and a suit of
wav,£n 7l rm ° ar ' ln troduced himself as Field-
Poo, and said that the Mighty Lord
n^ 6 „ o \. Bra^on aad Green Griffin felt
d2h?^fh y n h K rP-r 0^ 00 . of tbe Nlustrious
light of the Bob-tailed Bandicoot and Wall-eyed
demelon on that eventful day, alter which he
rented the gallant but retiring Australian flre°-
a £LH rBe of Pewter pennies and a
lominated address written on the jib-sheet of
» emperor spj jamas with Nubian blacking in
£ b j° oli€d bke a set of carpenter's tools
* “ad been struck by a spiteful streak of
ltn i in /* . CaPting Walkah is said to have ac-
jwledged the presentation with suitable con-
cension, and observed that he longed for the
j when tbe two great empires of Botany Bay
l China would have one cause, one fiag, ono
irt, one soul, and one ruler over all—a party by
name of Walkah. 8o impressed was the
Jther of the Sun and Moon on hearing this that
at once appointed Capting Walkah as the
nese representative at the “ Oolinderies” Ex-
ition, and would have married him to 47 wives
© hadn t explained that an Australian warrior a
iy d Ki ya tbe wlf ® be wanted and cartridges
■e his children.
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps is greatly used
tals for medicinal purposes.
QUEENSLAND SPEAKS.
A Modern Miracle -Restored to Sight and
Cubed of the Dread Diabetes.
MBaNDABERG, Queensland, Crofton Street,
May 31st, 1886. Three years ago, last January, 1
was engaged In station life on ihe Kolan River 2
mile 3 north of Bundaberg. While working in the
ram one day I was seized with such violent pains
in my back that I was obliged to leave off woric
and go to my bed in camp. In about four or liv
days my sight completely failed me. snd 1 couic
not see to do anything ; my thirst was im
mense, and I used to drink 26 quarts of water, tea
etc., a day (measured ia a pint-pannican), and
was unable to obtain slfeep. I came to Bundaberg
saw Dr. M., who said he could do me no good, ant
said I might as well make myself content and go
back to camp, for I was sure to go stone blind
My employer, Mr. D. F. Johnstone, of Koian
Station, advised me to go to Sydney aDd see Dr B
a leading eye specialist. I did so. After making
an examination which differed from those pre-
viously made as to the nature of my disease he
anaivsed my urine and told me that I was suffer-
ing from Diabetes. He prescribed for me and I
came back to Bundaberg, took his medicine, but
found no re ief, and my sight got worse, and 1 was
gettmg weaker and weaker. I next consulted two
other doctoas, with no better results, I then went
under Dr. C., of Bundaberg, and still I continued
to tail. I then gave up all hopes of getting better,
having tried so many medicines, ana having spent
over £6OO in the vain pursuit of health, and made
HP my mind, as I was told by my medical advisers,
that i ha,d to die. I thought if that was the case
like to see my friends in JSnglacd whilst I
still had life, and thought a sea voyage would be
beneficial. (I accordingly left with my family, and
arrived in Staffordshire about the middle of last
year.) I was induced to go to Queen’s Hospital.
Birmingham, and was treated by five different
doctors, who also informed me that J had the
dread Diabetes. They prescribed, and I was an
out-door patient of the hospital for five weeks I
tO . ne P hew - who resides in
Rochester, New York, the nature of my complaint.
He wrote to me telling me of the wonderful cures
effected there by Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure.
He inquired and found I could get the medicine
u„-2P d £ n ’ an ?, S3n t me a copy of “ The American
Rural Home, of November 29tb, containing
testimonials and descriptions of medicine. I then
f^e r H“ I S edt^ cive 1 it . atrlal ’ and Ken * to London
for the Remedies. 1 took nine bottles Warner’s
Cp RE '^ an<i three vials Warner’s
Safe Pills. 1 then felt great y relieved and a
changed man, and I could see to read a newsoaper
1 determined to return to Queensland, firmly be-
lieviDg myself a cured man. B eing unable to take
a supply of medicine with me on the voyage, about
nf e m Q e n W t ee fl kB ? fter S akl S g r last bottle, symptoms
of Diabetes returned and I wrote home to England
for more medicine. Accidentally, while coming
HP the mainstreet of Bundaberg, ou the 7th March!
i# Bo, m Saw Warner s Safe Remedies for sale in
Mr. Timms , our local chemist’s, window I gladlv
bought Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure and again
continued its use. As a result, lamab eto resume
my former work, and I can do as good a day’s
work as ever. itiy weight was reduced to nine
stone, now I weigh over eleven. I cannot recom-
mend Warners Safe Remedies too highly, rk
they alone cured me of blindness and snatched mo
from the gYave, when all else failed.'’
WILLIAM BAILET
Contrac'or.
A REASONABLE REQUEST,
One of the engineers on the N.S.W. Rail-
way, who happened to be off duty a few days ago
met a friend near the station. “ I say, Bill. I wish
you would do me a favour.” “I’ll do it” “If
wil l ?, e appreciated by all the engineers on the
road. what can I do for you all.” “Pleaso
don’t hang around the station when the trains are
coming in, they are everlastingly mistaking your
red nose for a danger signal, and it confuses them.”
Ail right; I don’t want any acsident to hamjen
Ihave dropped drinking whisky,
and taken to that famous Anheuser Busch bt.
J'Ouis Lager Beer.” “ Stick to that. Bid, for a few
you loot t+h6Q °° me aroUQ<i ' 1 waat t 0 806 ho w


H*A T R *
royal.
T
mLLiAMSOK, QXBNBB and MUSOBOTI, Manager.
Leasee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
SECOND WEEK
of the
WILLI AMSONS. T M a nN
MAGGIE MOORE and J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in their perennial^drama,
STRUCK OIL
TOTTN STOFEL BTIIUCKO1 M r , Williamson.
LIZZIE STOFEL Miss Maggie Moore.
And the intensely amusing topical Farce the
CHINESE QUBBTION.
The Williamsons in their original characters.
Business Manager for MrTwilliamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlebeaqu-street,
Between Liverpool Smith.
140 “ under the Managementof Mr. Dam^er^
Business Manager Mr. Irea. uuutuei
INDESCRIBABLE SENSATION.
UNMISTAKABLE ENTHUSIASM.
CREATED BY THE BRILLIANT PRODUCTION,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LITE,
Interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Ponular Prices—Dress Circle 35,, Stalls 25., Pit l£.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
» t R T?Y T H E A T R E.
G Lessoe „ .- •• Mr John Solomon
i U pERFECT FURORE GREETS JEOLA, '
The Beautiful Lady Athlete, aotually shot from
Monster Gun 29 feet from the stage to the Dome
of the Theatre, and caughyiand to hand Dy
FUN EUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
H J. SAMUEL, Representative for Mr. John n.
Sheridan.
m OADRMY 0 Y MUSIC.
Proprietor and Manager.. Mr. F. E. Hiscoeks.
TRIENNIAL TRIUMPH
[HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS
1 and SPECIALITY UNION.
EVERY EVENING.
T H
B
ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL.
Proprietor and Manager mV 111^1 ’
business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashi enable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
?HB ALHiMBBA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
baloony, is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7.30 o’clook.
|- APA N E S_E VILLAGE.
* exhibition building.
LAST TWO WEEKS
f this pre-eminently successful andßrobdignagian
CoUecUon of Industrial and Theatrical
Inooßgruitles.
murra tn NINE WEEKS 178,425 people paid to
[OTIC • mn g JAPANESE VILLAGE.
fact of Unprecedented Parallel in
S P of uSVna no.t of rebuilding are aery great,
Here lanot,tne.U|nMtne»^
BEVIS ffIE 8 M BER NEr -
the LAST 13 NIGHTS.
Lynch family bellringers
YNLH (Organised 1867). T .
Manacer • • Harry Lynch.
.Manager NORTHBRN T OUR.
Paterson-Thursday, July 1 9
Raymond Terrace— Friday, July
Hinton- Saturday, July 3
Dungog—Monday, July J
&c„ to follow.
Sydney Farewell season, August and September.
i &ion-«., 30 .. ; .nd a? i. iit 800,Bep..at, 8 ep..at,, 3 0,
aSBI Aganta.
_e T , T, a Pnnila’ CONCERT TO-NIGHT,Pro-
Hall 3s , 23.. and Is. SINGING
MONDAY* Nil XT, Musical Institute.
103.61. per quarter.
Tt Or S SB n“tf MUSICAL IK
Beginners and advanced, 10s. 01. per
quarter.
T
CLAIRVOYANT, and
|HO SPECIALIST. (South Coast Tour),
f'tuart Cumberland s Rival),
( DR. T. PROUD’S
n P-unrSinarv Illustrations of Divining Unuttered
Extra TpiughtB in full view of the audience.
a. _^ u iPrntpstant Hall, Thursday. Ist July
Jaraberoo, g Roo j of A.rts, Monday, sth July
Gerring g> Agricultural Hall, Tues. 6th July
gowrtpuwfcHaltwed., and Thurs., 7th, Bth July
in Syd.
t H EATRE ROYAL,
r®«khampton,
TTTF above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c,, apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
rnTmT SIMM GYMNASIUM,
‘ At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
terms, &c., apply GANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
D
OBBYNS’ HA
Junee Junction.
L L,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
# and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
‘.‘A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ado
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
FEASTS and ENTERTAINMENTS to the In-
mates of the Destitute Asylums at Liverpool,
Parramatta, and Newington.
Any donations kindly forwarded to the hon.
Treasurer, careof Mr. Quong Tart, Sydney Arcade,
will be thankfully received and duly acknow-
ledged.
A?C. T HBWLETT, [Joint secs.
June 22,1886.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB
Patron: His Excellency, Baron Carrington,
KC.M.G.. P.C.;
President: The Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L O.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
Eleventh Annual Ball,
under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
JOHN YOUNG, Esq.. a
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised to be
present.
Will be held in the
TOWN HALL,
ON THURSDAY, J JLY 22,
and ttat the number ot guests will Positively
be limited to 300.
Tickets for same are obtainable from members
of the Committe". and the undersigned only.
R. A. KEDDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Secretary.
Telegraph Department.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established I 860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTB.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &0., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auotion Mart, Queen-
Btreet, Brisbane.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
in this City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in th© £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at bates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOB, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
seleet from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes Lord Carrington,’’ “ Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial, Our Girls,
, Boston Bride,” and our “ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos —“ Boston Navy,” “Prince Imperial,”
“Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received In stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 61.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
fT\HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
“*■ SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,000,000
.. 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
iroughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
nd CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
ealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
nd Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
ble terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
pplication.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
T
IHB FRESH FOOD AND lOH COMP AN I
(Limited)
have Opened a
branch depot
▲X
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, with
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left for delivery
by their carta.
They have also taken over the Agency for
•KOUMISB,” so highly recommended in pulmc-
lary complaints.
Fresh Food and fee Co., Limited
... sa Harbour-street
.. Llverpool-street.
.. ... Mlttagong,
Head Office..
Stables •••
Factory ..
Department ot Public W°rM.
Sydney, June 29,18£6
TBNDBR9 for PUBLIC y o £ KB
PLIBB—TBNDBRB are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For parti-
culars see Gotbbnmbnt Gazbtt*, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer wiil be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
W Xhe Government does not bind Itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
K«fttur« of Work! tnfi Supplioi
Dates to whiob
Tenders can be
received at
this offloe.
Additions new Lock-up «aralsra
New Boiler, Rospi ai for the
insane, Glade3ville
Erection of Boiler-house, Hospi-
tal for Insaue, Gladesville
Tuesday,
July 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Police Station Build-
ings, Grabben Gullen
Addit’ons Post-office, Cooron
Additions Post-office,Narandera
Erection Courthoure, Narrabri
Kepalre, &c, Courthouse, Mor-
peth
Tuesday,
July 13,
at 11 o’clook
Erection of and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Erection of Stable, Po ice
Buildingp, Jerelderie
Additions, &c , Police Quarters,
Inverell „
Station Mister's House, Wara
tah. Great Northern Itatlway
Piers for A queducts near Guild-
ford, Sydney Wa er Supply
Fittings Free Public Library
Tuesday,
July 20.
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNB.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HI3 EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
UST ARRIVED, ex
the
‘Massillia,” 13 Cases of
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
u &pill«r’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKL’S ESTABLISHMENTS
320 and 446 Geoeoe-st.,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
SOUTH AM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
.t.C'U'fR
3RAUM.
N ERV
TREATMENT
Dr. E. C: West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain ™
insanity and leading to misery, decay,, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. , ss. a box, or six b °? eE ' ’ B |"*
by mail prepaid on receipt of pnce. We Guarantee six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any ease of liver com
nlaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
-WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout Sprains, Cuts, Bums, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease WRite Sweiiing, lelons Chilblains,
Whit-lows. Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites ol insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO, and
o x din hi) TORONTO.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-9T., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICtfS, 50 per cent, less than
• ydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/0, 1/0, 0/0. 12/0, 11/6, 21/-, 25/. 80/.
45/, to *2O.
Specialty: The Germao-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, <35/-
25 s ?
<-
581
m
fl)
05
Si
m
ACCOROEONB
pecL'ty:
10/6. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to *2O.
Specialty: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
W
CORNETS, “* 4# -' 50, ,-i s?is. 1#5 ’’ 180
Specialties : The new " Levy ’’ model,
with water key ... • •
The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key ..
The new “Reynolds'' Echo-
attachment Cornet
£5 5 0
9 10 0
13 10 0
Specialty
Frnm 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in s f cck.
• The 8-key Cocoa D Concert FUFe,
with slide-head, ia case, by
best English maker 01
THE SYMPHONEITEI
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tui.es, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
rhe “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
j*. Rraal aD d Drum and Fife Bands furnished
Negro Minstrel Troupes fl; ted out.
Clarionets Violin Strings and Fittirgs.alfgeole ,
° Drums Oußars. Harmonicors, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every clsss
of Musical Instrument, from a
k\h: to a Church Organ
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
Lo any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Tamitai Royal-" Struck Oil ” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ Fun on the Bristol ”... „
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce. „
Koyal Standard Theatre—” His Natural
Life ” „
Exhibition Building— Japanese Village .. „
Academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels „
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
A theatre during an afternoon perform-
ance is a dreary spectacle. It Is suggestive of a
oataoomb with the roof taken elf, or a ball which
has been prolonged till the check of virgin beauty
has grown haggard, and the ice-creams have
melted, axd the rouge on the face of aged youth
has become a mockery In the early twilight. The
Ras lights struggle in an unequal contest with the
Sunbeams that creep in through the closed blinds,
the artificial night seems like a demon prematurely
born, and the actors who tread the stago are op-
pressed by the consciousness that they are sup-
porting a double part and tryiDg to metamorphose
not only themselves but Father Time as well.
But with all these disadvantages, the amateur
company who played “Our Boys” at the Sydney
Gaiety on Saturday afternoon lor the benefit of
the Ly-ee-moon turd soored a decided success.
At the commencement they were nervous,
as amateurs generally are. Sir Geoffrey
Champneys was preternaturally stiff ; the but-
terman dropped his aspirates in a refreshing
shower at one moment and relapsed into re-
fined English the next; and Aunt Clarissa,
though uniformly good, seemed to wish she were
somewhere else. But the entrance of the two
young ladies, who seemed thoroughly at home
from the outset, broke the spell. The baronet in-
serted an extra joint in his spine, Perkin Middle-
wick rallied his disorganised vocabulary, the
maiden aunt plucked up spirit, and made love to
the retired pig-and-baoon contractor with good
will and energy, and “ Our Boys ” arrived and set
everything going. The way in which the pair
bounced their respective parents made the comedy
«lmost a certain success, and at the end of the
'second aot Mr. Cohen, transformed for the time
into a raging, roaring, raving butterman, put the
result beyond all question. We have seen that
butterman in the same soene under many different
aspects. Sometimes he is represented as bitterly
sarcastic; sometimes he is quietly vindictive, like
the hoop of one of his own butter-tubs when
you tread on it and it rises and strikes
you on the gizzard as you traverse a dark
lane at night ; but in his rampant fury
last Saturday, he was more like the butter-
man who pervades this wicked world, and sells im-
ported tallow a* pure country produce, than any
tradesman we have hitherto seen. In the last
scene the two flabby Roman fathers were very
good, and if the lady cousins missed ore or two
points this was compensated by the vivacity of
the lodging-house slavey—a young lady who need
never be out of a billet, and who could find about
R hundred Sydney boarding-houses where her ser-
vices would be at a premium. Our boys were
also at their best, in their humble quarters, in the
“three-pair baok,” and the performers well
deserved the applause awarded them.
* * *
The presenoe of the Govern or and an array
of notables lent an aristooratio aspect to the scene,
but it might have been better if a number cf
dusty gods had not kept up a constant entrance
and exit in order to feast their eyes on the rear
elevation of his Excellency. A Baron, so far as
the hind view is concerned, is very like any other
man, and those who took eo absorbing an interest
in his back-hair might have kindly remembered
that they were rendering the dialogue quite in-
audible. As for the lady who remarked audibly,
" My, ain t he ’orrid I”—though we are quite un-
able to guess to whom she referred—it might be
well if she refrained from uttering such senti-
ments In presence of a loyal audience. No doubt
she was speaking the naked truth—indeed, to
judge from her dress she prefers it as nearly naked
as possible—but a little truth goes a long way in
Sydney.
** * *
“ Duty Bound,” at Sydney Opera House,
Is a four-act comedy-drama, which is not calcu-
lated to raise a blush above anybody’s shirt-front.
The characters consist principally of two charm-
ing girls, a caddish young man with a taste for
Vioe, a good young man with a taste for sermonis-
ing. two old British merchants, of whom one ”is
pulpy and the other slimy, and a truly dreadful
old woman. She is mean, grasping, narrow-
minded, cantankerous, sublimely mendacious, as
vicious as a bull-scorpion, as unreliable as a church
synod, and fearfully and wonderfully selfish.
When she speaks to her husband, that unhappy
man gives at the base of the spine instantly and be-
comes limp as a sun-killed crayfish, while her slangy
son retreats and the two young ladies hide them
selves in terror. The good young man, however,
stands his ground. In dramas of this kind the
good man and his wicked relative are easily dis-
tinguished. The collar of depravity is more pro-
minent, and it is stiffened by the starch of pride
until it prods itself into the ears that are closed
against admonition. The vicious dicky is wide as
a whited sepulchre and deep as tne Vale of
Hinnom, and the corner of a sinful handker-
chief protrudes from the tail pocket of the
unrighteous coat. The good man is shorter,
Btouter, and a little older, his moral waistcoat is
closely buttoned up, as if to hide the passionate
earnestness of his bulgy necktie, and he plants his
pegged boots firmly on the hydra head of moral
corruption. The attractive young lady, with great
depth of character, is dressed plainly, with a small
bustle; the equally attractive, though frivolous
lady, is dressed elegantly, with a large bustle;
and the vicious old female is generally a rainbow,
in which a lurid cholera tint predominates. As
for the henpecked husband, he looks as if he had
engaged a cyclone for his valet, and seemingly the
airy menial has attended strictly to his duties, and
never takes an evening out.
* * *
There is not much action iu the early part
of the piece, and very little towards the end. In
the middle there is almost none. The heroine, a
young Creole, is “sassei” by her guardian, the can-
tankerous old lady, and responds at times with
such spirit that the stout female almost wishes
she had never been born. Tne son discourses
slangy language, makes love, and brings in cups
of coffee; the preud father quakes behind a news-
paper, and the good young man pays a visit,
blossoming forth like a lovely oasis in a barren
land. The old lady spreads slanders about the
heroine as the story progresses and destroys her
character, till at last she resolves to seek a new
home; the old man puts down his paper apolo-
getically and goes bankrupt, and the slangy son
falls off his horse into a ditch. Finally the good
young man restores the shattered fortunes of the
henpecked merohant and constitutes himself the
creole girl's guardian. The cad calls on him, and,
after explaining his errand in terse and business-
like language, be briefly hits the virtuous man in
the eye. For a moment it seems as if vice is about
to triumph, and there is an awe-stricken hush,
during which the fall of an alligator might be
heard in any part of the house. But in another
second the good man has recovered his seif-con-
trol, and he explains to his visitor that he is his
long-lost brother, and cries out in noble anguish
that he has been biffed on the nose and has
not returned the Insult. Both weep, the man
with the sound conscience and the damaged nose
shedding tears on his blotting-pad, while the cad
snufliea remorsefully into the stiff corner of his
collar. Finally a profound and holy calm irrigates
the scene, the vicious lady is suppressed and
crushed flat, the good characters—four of them—
are all engaged to be married, the cad revives,
calls the virtuous man a fool and a coward and
then gives him his blessing, and by a merciful
dispensation of Providence all is over.
* * *
“ Duty Bound” is one of the best fossil
BermoDs that has come under our notice for a long
time. It would be impossible to cram one more
moral lesson ipto it without imminent danger of
bursting the hide of the drama, and even as
ip, . 8 . the high-toned Sunday-school sentiment
which actuated the writer bulges out in
all directions like the fat streaks in an
over-fed hog. The acting all round is as good as
oircumstances permit, but the play hangs like a
mulstone round everybody’s neck, and chloro-
forms the audience into silent stupor. Mr. Reeve
makes the very best that can be made of the vir-
tuous man, but the character in question is of no
use except to the undertaker; and Mr. Brian
Barley acts the slangy cad with the easy grace of
a 18 at home his part. But the ladies
with the exception of Mrs. Bryer, who is un-
speakably vixenish-sucoumbed to the saddening
atmosphere of the piece, and the impression they
left on the audience was that they were tired and
wanted to go to bed, a desire in which all present
heartily concurred.
** * *
‘‘His Natural Life” is still on the boards
at Sydney Royal Standard. When we observe the
orowdswho attend nightly to witness this gory
drama a great financial idea strikes us, and we see
our way to abolish ad valorems and wipe out the
obronio dt licit in the Treasury of NS. W. Let all
bangings and Hoggings be done for the future in
a la, ;«e hal) - ™ u h a oearge of £5 for admission,
acdif the Dolice are but reasonably active a re-
venue of £200,000 a year may be realised without the
JAWBONE NEILD, AND WHERE HE GOT HIS WEAPON.
slightest diffioulty. The only feature in the convict
drama to which the public object is the decomposed
moral. The convictism is applauded, the cannibal
is greeted with enthusiasm, the “ cat-o'-nine-taila"
gets an encore, and villainy in general is well re-
ceived. But in public executions of the kind sug-
gested there is no moral whatever, so this objec-
tion would be obviated. No free passes, of course,
would be allowed, as the great object would be to
make money, but a reduction might be made
to Sunday schools, aad bank shareholders could
be admitted at half-price while the manager was
under treatment.
** * *
The new programme of the Federal Min-
strels, at Sydney Academy, has not as yet resulted
la crowded houses. Some of the company’s jokes
hoary and bald from extreme old age, and many
of them seem to be translations from the Egyp-
tian epitaphs on the tombs of Thebes. When we
remember that the Hebrew David was a minstrel,
we cannot but sympathise with Sauls failure to
spike him with his javelin, and we are half inclined
to regret that the use of that valuable weapon is
understood nowadays. “The modern
William Tell” is an adaptation of the old Swiss
legend, with the slight difference that the new
man fails to knock the apple off the top of a gas-
ft 1 9, pa^,e 8: "1.0. U.” did not furnish us with
w£«fL uable hinta we expected, and our own little
«^2;P„ a K P , er u reaß i ln , ne^otlableaß ev er without two
respeotable householders to back them. The beat
of P/osramme i 8 that in which a bundle
I fired f rom the mouth of a cannon by
8 feat at the Gaiety, and
nnnnSj * b c pertormance is chiefly misery and
rmsihi d J U h^ 8 ‘ the latter, anew one may
nPfil b J? b P acceptable, and as we are thirsting
ft th«t k Ph 0 W i ed w ?„ w111 Put it on record. Why is
i t fl nnLi h P,s U i blic T lll pay the price of two drinks.
frin ÜB )Pb. m P a i’ a iP usr of eheap tobaeoo, and two
.J 8 J O , hear jokes from a nigger, when
thA^rrnnfrwvP ft Gaucasian street-loafer across
,fPf Dlc Capricorn if be button-holed them
answe?wmofll|e! ame observatloEß * ratlß? An
•* * *
‘ Struck Oil” still draws at the Sydney
Koyal. After making allowances for the parsoni-
nh!.™ e t* up of Anßon ’ 8 Eben Skinner, the
character was, it must be admitted, ably given.
Its weakest part was its finish. It was quite in
keeping for the sanctimonious knave to assume,
when bowled out, the role of a martyr, but the
assumption was worked out without the delicate
touches which might have made Skinner's depar-
ture a piece of artislic portraiture. It blurted
itself out. Bben proclaimed his own innocenoe,
charged those about him with conspiracy, and ex-
pressed assurance that his virtue would yet
triumph, and these things were done with tone
and bearing wnich left nothing of the fine
hypocrisy suggested by other aspects of the
character. Instead of departing defiantly,
boisterously, the deoeitfulness, treachery,
and prominent cowardice displayed by him
in the early stages should have ended in
a meek, submissive acquiescence in a fate
which he could have shown more by silence
than by speech was wholly, in his own esti-
mation, unmerited by him. To illustrate, take
Mr. Anson’s appearance before the curtain in
answer to vociferous calls on one occasion. The
excellence of his acting was testified to by a
tempest of hoots and groans. He held the black
hat in his hand, turned much of the white parts of
his eyes up at the hooters, and letting the eye-
lashes fall as if in forgiveness, shook his head pen-
sively and resignedly, and retired with the bearing
of an incorruptible but totally misunderstood
man. That was the essence of the character.
There was rich suggestiveness in it while it held
together thus. The change to the braggart, the
all-round accuser, the loud declaitner of his own
virtue, and the new manner and tone the change
necessitated vulgarised the original conception
and otherwise deteriorated it.
* * *
With a truer finish, Eben Skinner would
De the most dramatic character in the piece. His
only rivals are John Stofel and L'zzie. 'Ihe othe
d *stiny. ut J°hn and Lizzie pla;
altogether on the same nlane of sentiment as the
which novels like “The Vioar of Wakefield
difference between “The Vicar
Wakefield and Btrathmore 99 represents th
« between fhe Williamsons’ “Struck Oil
aad Majeronis’ “Fedora.” The Stofels charm
but the audience sits, intellectually, all the tim
cowper s ‘ Task ■’ has made many laugh and mac
weep. They can put it aside and go on with thui
a3 fl ? efore- ~ But “The Atalanta in Oaly
don unfits you for work immediately afterward
* ou have been unconsciously working hart
while following it. It is, of course, plunging tc
suggest a comparison between Struck Oil” anc
genius. We do it, however, with a purpose. 1
seems to us that high dramatto excitement, in
stead of mere homely charm, might be develops
hy Skinner the playwright's fulcrum in
stead oi John Stofel. John is an excellent back
ground against whioh to play off a strong and om
nently wicked character. In making him the sol
hero, the world is for the time turned into
neighbourhood such as ltiohardson, Cowper, o
Martin Tupper might have created. It is to Mr
Anson muoh of these redactions is due. Hi
actiog projected phases of his part which were,
dramatic excellence, far ahead of his text.
* * * *
The “ Widdy O’Bree-on,” at the Sydney
Gaiety, is still by no means a lone widow, and i
tar removed from being a poor one. The Der
formance continues to draw like a Home Kule
meeting when, as now, the cause has become
popular one. No change in the programme i
yet Dined*
» * * *
Under the auspices of Hugo, who, from
the reception his company has met with, would
seem to be a Victor Hugo, the Sydney Princess
Theatre opened on Monday night with a minstre
w“th V next week W Whl ° h We purpose dea11 ©* fully
* * * *
In the full flood-time of their prosperity
the managers of the Japanese show will have to
ring down their curtain, the last night being July
U- The Industrial Exhibition will succeed them
in their tenancy of Sydney Exhibition Building.
* * *
The Faust Family appear to be making
great success at Tamworth, where their exhibition
of statuary is especially admired. Many of the
Tamworth people never saw the Sydney Post-
effloe carvmgs, and therefore the performance
took them unawares. a
# * *
At Kiama the provincial intellect is suf-
feriog an electric shock through Professor Proud’s
thought-reading performances. The programme
appears to be very similar to that of Mr. Cumber!
land, and, among other items, that of reading
character by the face is conspicuous. A subject
ascends the stage, and tho professor looks at his
countenance and informs him whether ho if
qualified to te a bank manager, or a sneak thief
or a policeman, as the case may be. The Kiama
PeoPleflkethis, and the show is consequently a
* # * *
We hear that Mr. W. J. Holloway and Miss
Essie Jenyns have scored a great success in Bris-
bane as “Borneo and Juliet.” Mr. Hollo wav
always was our ideal of Komeo-voiceT figure
manner, age, tights, all conspire to make
accomplished hlstrion a lover such as the old
original Juliet never dreamt of in all her
little life. We hope William didn’?8pon things
Brisbane by allowing anyone else to flirt on the
balcony in the tranquil Queensland moonlight
with the pretty Essie J enyns. “ The Broken Idol '*
ing Success! ’ accordiD * to the pap ®«, a howl-
* * * *
Mrs. Marcus Clarke denies that she re-
f™m anyone ® av © Messrs. MaoMahon and
Leitch any payment on account of the stage-
NaturirLHe 0 ” 8 * at ® hu8band ’ a “ His
„ * * * *
Mr. RobertBrough is off for a trip home.
He returns before the end of the year to take
over the lease of Melbourne Opexa House in con!
junction with Bouoicault the younger. Brough
L??Hii bl8in “ Princess Toto” last week
His Excellency the Governor and suite were all
there. °o was Brough—very much all there Con-
sidering that the chief weight of Toto rests* uonn
his shoulders, his agility as an unadulterated
savage is extremely extraordinary. By the wav
much trouble is in the air of the Opera House *’
• • • *
That most funereal of towns Maitland
is going to build a *10,000 theatre Vay
preserve our sedate friend, Editor Eipber, from
the ungodly fascinations of opera-bouffe “Is
°* aolthead 7 °£ r sweetheart ?” askSd'oneof
s«?n 8 /s d n v ey ‘"\l h^ bra .. divlnltk8 of another last
baturday. Well, no, was the meditative reply •
he s not exactly that, out-weli, he is on my S-
’ - At late8t Frilz was
In the weekly edition of the Sydney
Morning Herald “society” news is now given II
We conclude, therefore, that a paper may now-
give social news and be„“ respectable.” We read
that “the Messrs. Fairfax” have added a new
department for the publication of “Society news. >
.... The object of the proprietors in giving
this information is shown by the increasing in-
terest which is manifested in their paper by ad
sections of the public.” A year or two ago The
Bulletin was denounced by the S.M. Herald in
a co'umn of editorial cant and snivel fordoing—
snly in a neater way-wh&t the Herald pro-
prietary now find it necessary to advertise that
they have commenced. What’s the world coming
to ? When next the JRev. Dr. Jefferis stands up and
absurdly snuffles over “papers which invade the
sanctity,” & i, we hope he’ll not forget to expli-
citly mention, in the presence of theuncertlflcated
saints of his congregation, that the Sydney Mail
now does it—that they all do it, in fact. After all,
a report of the modern parson’s sermon is only
“Society ” news. Is there anyone in Australia so
hypocr'tioal as to pretend to thfflk that the
Herald accounts of the Jtfferisun and Fraokle-
tonian jeremiads upsn “Bichelor Life,” and
“ Spinster Life,” and “ How to Woo,” and “ Chris-
tian Courtship,” and all the rest of k, ere anj-
thing but “ Society ” news ? For our own part
we are so unregenerate as to solemnly believe that
a lot of the antique virgins with winter faces, blue
noses, and corkscrew curls, who listen to the
galimatias of the good Congregational pastor and
his Presbyterian brother in the Lord, approach their
respective fanes with no feeling more reverential
than that with which they approach 4 o’olock
scandal and tea,
Avoid excitement, dissipation, and late
hours, and take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ We want the land,” great Parnell cries,
We want Home ttule to boot;” t
And next you'll want,” said Summexlieid, /
"A tiptop winter suit.”* /
The great anti-bilious remedy Wolft/s
Schnapps. >


At Last! He Paddles His Own Canoe.


THE LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
(BY MAROOGALINE.)
A well-known man in Queensland is W.
O. Hodgkinson, sometime goldfields warden aDd
now relieving police magistrate. He was a grea
favourite with the diggers, and is a genial anc
honest representative of the true Australia
democracy. He was once stationed at Raven
wood, and on the occasion of some festiviti
among the population the whisky supply of t
town was exhausted. And from the whole of t
inhabitants a prayer went up to Heaven or dow
to the other locality, for something to drin
Hodgkinson was aware that the local banker kepi
a case ot a very superior brand in the bank pa
lour. The hour was midnight. He and sever
festive friends suddenly appeared under the ban
manager’s bedroom window carrying a bag co
taining, as they said, about two thousand pounc
worth of gold specimens obtained from a new ree
They were bound to deposit them in the bank tb
night. The manager arose and opened the ban
parlour, placed the bag of splendid specime
carefully in the safe, and then all hands eat dow
ard spent the balance of the night in drinkin
success to the new reef, and general joy and glor
to the universe. And about lOo’clock on the follow
ing mornirg the tank manager rose from h
couch on the carpet, opened the safe to look ai
the wondrous specimens, ano found a bag co
taing twenty pounds of nicely-assorted roac
metal I And the prospectors were gone, and
was all the bank whisky I And Hodgkinson tbai
day received notice that his account was ove
drawn six and ninepence and that an im
mediate settlement was peremptorily requested.
• * *
Warden Sellheim was on bis way back
Cooktown from the Palmer. He pulled up at
small creek to consume a tin of sardines and dilu
the contents of his flask. He found a party
diggers cooking at a huge fire ard one of them wa
just dusting a cooked damper which he had r
moved from the ashes. “ This appears to be
favourite camping-place, matel” said one of th
men to Sellbeiui. "ch no,” replied the warder
“this is no camping ground! Where you ar
cooklDg there is where I burned three dead Chin
men on my way up last Monday”!! They ba
baked their damper among the athesof ihecr
mated celestials I But they were not men affecte
with much sentimentalism, and they all “gueese
they weren’t going to chuck away a good dampe
on that account I ’ And they ate it without
pang.
* * *
Last week a Barcoo Irishman came dow
to Brisbane. For ten years he had been foilowin
the primitive occupation of a shepherd in th
wilds of the Far West. He was a pious Irishman
ard feared God and the priest and paid his ctaurc
subscription with unbroken regularity. In Bri
bane he has a third cousin, a Catholic clergyman
and he came down to see him, hop ng in his un
sophisticated simplicity for a display of grea
affection and lavish liberality on the psrtorth
sub-vicegerent of the Almighty. The first tim
he called, the “ third cousin ” was not at home
lhesecond time he called, a message was leit
say that he was still out, but had left his Hysko
sian relative from the Barcoo a donation ot “ flv
shillings”! Then the Barcoo man Knocked th
soles off bis boots in his efforts to shake the dus
from them on his third cousin’s door-step, anc
went back to town with his soul running ove
with red hot lava. And to the first acqueiotanc
he met he thus relieved himself. “Be gobs oiv
aiwus bin a good frind of the church, and sbtuc
toihe Pope, the priest, and God, ana the saints
but 1 give ycz ihe word of a Barcoo shepherd tha
from th;stoime nut I mane to back the divill
And so one more ardent reciuit was added to th
formidable army which Satan is said to have sue
ceeded in mobilising from the human race, an
Holy Church lott a regular and reliable subscriber
* * *
Frank was a resident of Rockhampton
His brother was manager of the Queenslanc
National Bank. Frank had one fixea ambition
that transcended ail his other desires, and that wa
to shoot a crocodile. Bo he and a party were oui
one day on a tributary of the Fiizroy, looking
round for a specimen of the noble saurian witn
the “ fine open countenance I” And they saw on
about 18ft. long lying on a mud-fiat on the oppo-
site bank, but he glided gently into the water and
disappeared. There was an overhanging tree
with a lower branch about six feetabovethe ereek
Frank stationed himself on this commanding
position, and, pointing his rifle in readiness, waitec
calmly for the crocodile to come up. And the
crocodile did come up very unexpectedly, and in
very unexpected locality. He rose right under
Fi ank, with a roar like that of a mad bison, and his
mouth sufficiently open to take in a railway-truck
full of sheep. And Frank dropped his rifle into
the creek, turned to the colour of a snowball,
crawled back off the tree, regained his comrades
and whispering hoarsely, “give me some rum,’
fainted peacelully away. When he recovered, his
first words were: “ Henceforth I leave crocodile-
hunting to madmen I I shall confine my shooting
in future to grasshoppers. Let us strike for
home I”
* * *
And this reminds me that W. 0. Smith,
late manager of the Q.N. Bank in Cairns, and Johr
Upward, now in business in Sidney, once started
from Cairns in Rob Roy canoes to go up the
Barron River to Sm.tbfield. Plutonian darhneis
had descended when they entered the mouth of
the river, but they padded cheerfu ly away into
the inky night between the overhar ging 'man-
groves unconscious of danger. At the first bend
they dimly d stiDguished, a few yards ahead, what
appeared to be a floating log. Smith gave it a
playful dab with his paddle and the “log’’gave
one mad plurge, threw up a lew tons ol
water, and plunged into the depths below. It was
a crocodile of unusually robust dimensions. Then
the two canoeists came close together, crept along
near the shore, and started singirg to rouse their
somewhat despondent spirits. Tney sang all the
way to Smithfleid, songs sacred aud prolane, in
every key that ever the human voice commanded.
The nature of these midnight vocal efforts may
be feebly ascertained from the fact that no croco-
dile was seenin the Barron for six months, the
blacks acquired a superstitious dread of the river,
and the shores next morning were strewn with
defunct fish, their faces clearly indicative of death
from iright. And when Smith and Upward
reached Smitfcfield they bad not sufficient aiticu-
lation left to order medicinal stimulants. They
had to address the Lotei-keeper in mute but
elcquently-expressive gestures. And they retired
to rest murmuring, “nsrrosh kape shocrodiies,
shalligatore, moosic too mush for’em; sphlendid
idea-hooray s’*
« * *
One more anecdote of Tom Brown, of
Bavenswood. A German digger had died and was
buried with his clothe s on. Tom told some fellow s
afterwards that the German had a belt with 200
sovereigns in it, and that this was buried with the
body. This wts one of Tom’s little larks. He
knew the men he was talking to. They went
away and had a long consultation, the result of
which was that three of them interviewed Tom
late on the following night, and intimated to him
their aLxious desire to resurrect the German.
Tcm pretended to approve of the busintss, and
they left with a promise to call for him the follow-
ing midnight. At that particular time a buggy
drove up, and two men, hatted and cloaked like
Italian bandits, and looking the personification of
abandoned ruffianism, walked to Brown’s room,
lorn was supposed to know the exact position of
the grave. He saw the business was acquiring
a serious aspect, so he told thtm that it was use-
less to make the attempt as he could never find
•• w spot. And one of the bandits said,
well, if you can tell within five or six yards, we
oan paddock off the ground I” And the other
Ba y, “We will have that German up if we
paaaeokoff the whole darned cemetery I” They
were men not easily discouraged I But Tcm
said he was too ill to go out that night and that
the project must be postponed. And it is un-
necessary to say that the German, with the purely
imaginary belt of sovereigns, has been sleeping
peacefully in his grave up to the present time.
* * *
The scene was at Cooktown, in the Palmer
days, when there was a crowd of diggers waiting
to get away by the first steamer. Genial old Cap-
tain M‘Lean came alongside, in the Leichhardt.
FIRST ACT.
“AW! GOODMAN, DEAH BOY-I SUPPOSE YOU CAN OBLIGE ME WITH AN ORDER FOR
A BOX FOR TO-MORROW NIGHT?”
GOODMAN (cautiously): “WELL, I’LL SPEAK TO ONE OF THE FIRM. IN ANY CASE
YOU’LL HAVE A NOTE FROM ME IN THE MORNING.”
The steamer was rushed by the diggers, and they
led cff with a quiet but resolute attack on the
cook’s galley. The cabin passengers were re-
duced to asumptuous banquet of boiled potatoes,
smuggled in by one of the stewards. Before the
stearner started the captain paraded all the diggers,
to obtain their passage-money. Most of them paid
at once. No true digger,
If he had the funds,
made any attempt to
evade that liability. But
there were a few fraudu-
lent diggers, and one of
these had taken the
works out of his watch
and filled thel one case
with sovereigns. He was
detect ed by of the passen-
gers, and the watch was
nauled out by the captain,
the fare extracted, and
ihe balance handed back.
There were several
horses on board, and one
fellow, who said he had
no money, was attempt-
ing to onceal himself
among the “Come
cut of that,” said old
M'Lean, and at that mo-
ment one of the fiery
steeds, a conscientious
animal, “ well - connect-
ed,” launched out, and
gave the skulkiDg passen-
ger a skelp that lifted him
out on to the deok, bust
up his pocket, and scat-
tered enough sovereigns
about to pay three or l our
fares. And no painter
could have caught the
seraphic expression on
the face of old M'lean.
as Le quietly picked up
SECOND ACT.
(Goodman’s little note).
the ten that he wanted, and told tnelfellow to
look carefully after the balance.
* •
The Rev. W. Kildahl reoently resigned the
incumbency of Christ Chuich, MiltoD, near Bris-
bane. This reverend gentlemen, a very genial and
liberal theologian, was once travelling on the
Bogan in New South Wales with a squatter for a
companion. On the road, Kildahl shot a large
white-headed eagle and hung him by the feet to j
the crupper staple. And thus they rode along 1
until the squatter, who was riding ahead, heard a
sudden series of unearthly yells from the rear,
and on looking rouDd paw his clerical companion
gesticulating frantically, his gun on the ground
and the horse executing a wild fantasia on two
legs. And all this disturbance arose from the fact
that the wounded eagle had unexpectedly re-
turned to sensibility, and signalised his recovery
by seizing Kildahl firmly by the calf of the leg
with the evident intention of making a hasty
lunch. When the eagle's head had been cut off and
his jaws opened to release the leg. Kildahl re-
turned thanks to the Great Giver of all good for
his miraculous deliverance. The bird was pro-
bably a Roman eagle temporarily possessed by the
spirit of Torouemada. and hence his demoniac
desire to chaw'up the Protestant evangelist.
The Murray is a
merjy river to navigate
for those to whom a
century, more or less, is
of no consequence. So
is the Dariirg, in an
even more hilarious de-
gree. We read in the
Bourke tapers of steam-
ers that have been wait-
ing on these noble
streams for periods vary-
ing from 13 months to
three years to be able to
move out of the mud.
In some cases the ves-
sels have been used as
schooihouses, and in one
instance one of them was
turned into a Town Hall.
When it leaves, the
maycr and aldermen will
have to hold their meet-
ings in a cave, or go back
to the blacksmith's. The
departure of these ves-
sels i 3 naturally looked
upon by the inhabitants
of the township to which
they have lent a sub-
stantial and prosperous
appearance so long, in
the light of a griev-
ance. It Is not easy
to be philosophic when
people see their pub-
lic buildings vanishing
slowly out of view. The leave-taking of the cap-
tains and crews is said, by these who have wit-
nessed it, to be a pathetlo sight. Some of them
have settled down and married, and gathered a
family around them while they have been waiting
there for the river to rise. They are saddened at
parting by the thought that they may never live
to return, or that if they do, they may find them-
selves Eip Van Winkles, meeting new faces and a
new generation that does not know them from
Methusaleh. “ One more old landmark gone,” said
an ancient resident of one of those riverside vil-
lages, as a steamer he had known from childhood
swung out into the river the other day. And then
he burst into tears, and had to be loaded up with
beer before he would be quiet. There is a hote’-
keeper away out there who had a consignment of
timber pent him from a South Australian port by
a river steamer three years ago. He wanted it to
fix up his hoi el to keep the rain out. If be has
not put the hotel on a raft he is • robabiy drowned
by this time. The timber may come in bandy to
make him a coffin- if his body has been d’scovered
He was terribly “chippy.” While in his
tub he held conversations with people who be
thought w»ro in his bedroom. In deserted streets
ho fancied he heard people shouting out his name
to him. Although he bad mentally sworn off, he
flew into his pet place and demanded bis life to be
saved. The cork of the soda- water bottle had go
broken, and they were a bit slow over the life
eavirg, when a perfect stranger earns up to him
and, tapping him on the shoulder, ssked: “As
from one gentleman to another gentleman, wil
you teli me whether I have been keepiDg u]
Christmas or ihe Queen’s Jubilee ?”
Oncb a Month, according to the Mel
bourne oorresnordent of the Sydrey D.T., “ an
nounces that it must give up the ghost unles
some wealthy patron or patrons of colonial iitera
ture come to the rescue with guarantees of £lO
each, a very improbab'e contingency indeed. And
yet they could not sperd a £loo-note to better ad
vantage, for Once a Month is beyoDd all question
the ablest periodical that Victoria bss yet pro
duced. Its typography was excellent; its literary
matter eDtertaiDiDg; and its engravings really ad
mlrable. For style and finish they have not been
equalled or excelled by any of the home maga
zines. It is a great pity that so good
a periodical should be allowed to drop for
want of proper support.” This is one of the
calmest announcements we have ever read. Oncb
a Month Is or was a mild little publication editea
by the Rev. Peter Mercer, all that can be said fo
whom is that be displayed literary judgment jus'
a shade better than tost of tbe average parson
In Once a Month you never saw anything tha
would bring a blush to tbe maiden’s ebee k, or
make the oid man puddenly get up, jumn on hi
spectacles, and proceed to burn tbe Monthly
Mercer, wiih tbe aid of tbe Are-tongs. But, again
you never read anything in the godly little Pres-
byterian shiilirg’B worth that caused ycu to choke
with laughter, or cry with emotion, or thunder
with rage like that of a New Zealand earthquake
It was well prit ted, its literary matter was enter
tainirg—to tbe clergy ard tbe stall-holders at
church-bazaars—ard its ergravings were pretty
good iithos which would have done credit to, say
Melbourne Punch. Of Buch is the Kingdom of
HeaveD.
Here is a brief summary of what those
hereditary legislators, the British House of Lords,
have done (or mostly what they have undone '
since the present century commenced:—
1807—Rejected Bill appointing a Committee of
Corn cil for Education.
1810—Rejected Bill abolishing Punishment of death
for stealirg goods value ss. (William Hl.’a
value; in 1810, the value was only 2s. 6<J.) More
than 200 crimes—many of them trivial—were
then punishable with death—7s in respect to
Revenue.
1825-Resisted Catholic Relief Bill until civil war
imminent, and Bank of England a few hourf
only frem stoppage.
1829 Disfranchised 40s Freeholders in Ireland be-
fore granting Catholic Emancipation.
1830— Opposed Land Drainage in Ire'and, delaying
it sixteen years.
1831, Oct. 7.- Rejected Great Reform Bill by a
majority of iorty-one. Popular indignation;
Bristol set on Are, and over 100 persons killed
and wounded isy tbe military; Birmingham
preparing to march on London; burning of
Nottingham Cattle, Newcastle, Derby, Bath,
Newark, and Worcester all in open riot.
1831 Refuped to ditfraochiee one borough spend-
ing £36,500 (in five eleetiors) on ]2CO voters.
1832—Mutilated tbe Reform Bill in Committee
People dow broke ail bounds, threw mud at
the King in tbe streets—City Council and most
of the middle class stopped payment of taxes
Run on the Bans, and £1,800,000 drawn out in
three days. The country on the brlDk of open
Revolution.
1832 Refused to open Universities to Dissenters.
1833 By fierce opposition compelled withdrawal of
Bill for Irish National Education.
1833- 1857—Denied civil aDd political rights to Jews
for quarter of a century. The Commons’ Bill
seven times rejected by lords.
1834 Refused to allow more than twenty persons
to meet for worship in private bouse.
1834—Three times rejected the Tithe Abatement
Bill. Also rejected Bill for legalising marriages
in Dissenting chapels.
1834 Forbade Nonconformist Ministers to officiate
in workhouses, and again threw out Bill for
abolishing University Tests.
1835 Population of Ireland eight millions-voters
90 0001 Lords refused Reform, and prevented
it for forty years afterwards.
1836 Ordered Banns of Dissenters’ Marriages to be
read before Board of Guardians.
1836—Tried to defeat Municipal Reform Act.
Choice of Magistrates denied to Town Councils.
Institution of Aldeiman imposed. Control of
Licensing knocked out of BilJ. Disallowed
Municipal Reform for Ireland, and again in 1837.
1838— Retused mothers custody of infants during
separation caused by fault of the father.
1839 Continued death penalty for sheep stealing
1839 Rejected by 229 to 118 the Bill to provide
National Education.
1842-Mmes’ Regulation. Refused to give women
and children work irg in mines the full relief
of Commons Bill. Protection of miners against
preventive accidents not obtianedfor3ovears
through Lords.
1844- Opposed Kepcal of the Penal Laws (Ireland)
These laws made it a crime for a Roman
Catholic to teach a child to read, to be absent
from Protestant services, and to own a horse
above £5 value.
1845 Refused Compensation for Tenants’ Im-
provement (Ireland) and so for 25 years.
1858-Refused Church Rates Abolition. Same for
11 years.
1860-Mr. Gladstone took Taxes (£660 000) eff Paper
Tbis meant a cheap Press. Lords threw out
tbe Bill.
1860-Refused Education to Miners’ Children
Twelve yesrs of darkness followed to these
unfertuD&tes.
1864—Voted cersure on the Government that
w°u Ul ,* D P^ go to War with Germany forth®
behalf of Denmark.
1867 Robbed electors cf London, Glasgow,
pool, Manchester, Birmingham, &c, of the
third vote, by imposition of the Three-corner
trick.
1868— Threw out Irish Church Disestablishment
Resolutions.
1868— Emasculated Artisans’ Dwellings Bill.
i Sß* V<^ Thrice refused University Tests Abolition.
1869 Mutilated the Irish Church Bill, causiDg
frequent conflicts between the two Houses.
Same year rejected Lord Russell’s Bill, legal-
ising Life Peerages.
1870— Irish Land Act, Lords refused compensa-
tion, and insisted on their right to evict dis-
tressed tenants.
1871— Rejected Army Purchase Bill.
1871—Tbrew out Ballot Bill, and next year ruined
it by an amendment, making the method of
votiDg optional.
1873-6-7-9—Refused to amend Burial Laws.
1879, ard onwards-Persistently refused to pass
Bill legalising marriage with a Deceased Wife’s
Sißter, even though strong Royal Influence was
brought to bear in favour of the measure.
1880- Rejected compensation for Disturbance RftJ
(Ireland) by 233 majority. Country given up
to anarchy and crime in oonsequence. Civil
war at "a measurable distance.-’ Same year
threw out the Irish Registration of Voters
.Bill.
1883—Disturbed Land Act by meddlesome enquiry.
1883—Threw out Cornwall fcunday Closing Bill, by
one vote.
1883— Maintained Trap Pigeon Shooting.
1868—Spoiled English Agricultural Holdings Bill—
but thought better of it afterwards.
1884- Refused the Franchise to 2,000 000 County
Householders. *


A Day at tho Dentist’s.
A Twinge.
A Raging Toothache.
Remedies
No Gopd
n! Can’t stand it any longer, must have it out.”
« Want a tooth out? Certainly. Won’t take a minute. Perfectly painless.”
“ Now don’t be afraid, I shan’t hurt you.”
“Now, then, are you quite comfortable?— that's right.”
“Now don’t be afraid, lassure-yo*! I shan’t hurbyou in the^least.
k ‘ t Now don’t be.alarmed, I’m not going to hurt you.”


“There! Not quite got it yet. Be out directly.”
“Am I hurting you ”
“There! Out at last. I didn’t hurt you, did I? ”
“What? Wrong tooth? Impossible.”
“ Never mind! We’ll try again—no extra charge.”
“No you don’t, you !!! ”
“ Revenge!”
Crushed again!


TO "JAMES MANCHESTER.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Thus the London Dispatch What will
the Manchester teetotallers say to Bishop Moor-
house? He has scarcely arrived in England be-
fore be launches treason against the principle or
total abstinence. He was once a teetotaller, he
says, but his health gave way, and he bad tochoose
between total abstinence and work. But for his
decision in favour of work he would not now be
B'shop of Manchester. This direct association of
bishoprics and the bottle will make the blue rib-
bon flutter on many agitated bosoms.” Will make
it flutter off many agitated bosoms, if we know
anythirg. Let us mingle prayer and praise with
the solemn notes of the sackbut belonging to th:s
journal:—
Bishop Moorhouse, our hand I Pray accept it—
We ourselves also once s'gned the pledge,
And for fourteen days manfully kept it,
Till we found cur back-teeth all "on edge
Till we found our soul turned inio acid,
And our “innards” remorseful and sore,
A nd cur heart, which was bitbeito placid,
Filled with infinite yearniDgs for Gore.
We were stranded that year in a torrid
Ar d thirsty towD, out in the West,
And the girl had brown bangs on her forehead,
And. dear Bishop, you know all the rest;
We were madly and frightfully smitten
With this maid who wore badges of blue,
And w ho wouldn't look towards us one bit in
The world, until we wore them too.
What would you have done, Bishop ? What we did
Ws sto y ield. We cried i ut, “ Who’s afraid ?
Other men from DriDk’s band have seceded,”
And strolled downtothe lodge, and got “made.”
Bishop 1 you have been weanedfrom strong waters
And gone back to ’em. You never went,
In your youth, to the “ Dawn of Day Daughters,”
At the “Hope of Blgorrabi Tent.”
If you'd “ been in the swim,” as the slang goes—
If you’d reached the real Temperance bliss
That brt aka out in teetotal fandangoes,
And in many a far-soundiDg kiss—
If you’d swung in a wild swirg ecstatic,
Where Jack grasps a quite different “gill,”
Would your conduct have been so erratic—
Would you not be for Abstinence still ?
But, when you were a “ tote.” tbirgs were slower;
Then a plucked brand would often return
To the brands that his soul loved, and so err
As to make the good brotherhood mourn,
Till they recognised this potent fact, if
Their power was to reach near and far
They must make life almost as attractive
In a Lodge as it is in a bar.
We digress. From the sad ranks of swipers
We were lifted, washed clean, and set free.
But, alasl most young females are vipers,
And our girl loved a W.C.
(Worthy Chief, gentle reader) with fervour,
And tiad won us away from She-oak,
Not for love, but in order to serve her ;
Ghastly Order, and rivet its yoke
Upon one whom she loved as a brother,
But “could never, etcetera”—her guile—
(We are here slipping out for another
Just to soothe us). Her conduct was vile
(We trie d w hisky, your Isrdship)— y es, d her I
She jist had us completely—but there,
We must certainly try to be calmer,
One may drink, but must surely not swear.
But she did not at once undeceive us,
For a week or so ail went on well;
Yet, oh, Bishop, ycu’d never believe us
If we ventured to truthfully tell
Wtat we suffered that week from barbaric,
Strange drinks—l hings that rise up and seethe,
Liquorß baleful, with acids tartaric,
That are even as a file on the teeth.
Things that nip their oold way down men’s
throttles—
Drinks of strange and malevolent hues,
Pent in all sorts of evil-shaped bottle s
That are corklesp, and wholly refuse
To stand up, as an honest flask will do,
But lie down while their chained venoms hiss
As though saying, “ We ie here and mildew,
While men live, lacking our icy kissl ”
Ab, that week I An insatiate and vital
Fiery thirst held us down. What avail
Would it be to give here a recital
That would quickly make brave cheeks turn
pale ? ~
We were ten times more valiant than Hector, W*
In the cause; we absorbed ginger wine ' '/v
By the quart, and “ Bigorrabi Nectar”
We declared—with a groan-was divine.
We qui (fed goblets of mud-coloured Tonic,
We swigged gallons of harsh Orangeade,
While our smile became fell and sardonic,
And our soul sought the regions of shade.
Then we said to ourselves, “Old man, cheer up,
You’ll get used to all this in the end;
What you want now is Pine Apple Syrup,
And Pie-Melon—teetotallers’ friend.”
But aIES, we were weak. We had reckoned
Overmuch on our strength. Like a Man
We got through the first week—through the
- second J
Like a Fiend. In our arteries ran >7
Molten fire, and revenge, and a craving
For all acids, and bloodshed, and gas— ;
So we sought her. She said we were raving, <■
And rejected us, boldly as brass 1 *
And we slew her. Laid within the same tomb la
Her beloved Worthy Chief—now a Past—
And from us the thick mantle of gloom is
Lifted, o’er us no more to be cast—
We drank largely of rum, and the nitre,
And the scorn left our heart; and of beer,
Quite three times the contents of your mitre,
And cur brain became thoroughly clear.
And we rolled in a flood, like the Tiber’s,
Of schnapps, and wrote columns of rhymes,
Whieh drove away both the subscribers
From our rag, the Bigorrabi Times;
Then, perceiving the wise and the witty
In the bush are as lost, we cried quits,
And set out in the night for the city
Where the papers keep poets ana wits.
There, of course, we found swift recognition,
And no mortal who looks on us now,
Lending grace to a haughty position,
Would believe that we once made a vow
dfo abstain from good liquor. The boys on
The staff have no reason to think
That we ever went back on our “ poison,”
Or were heard to say “ No ” to a drink.
Yes I we’ve been on the Temperance racket,
And we’ve failed; and we stoutly maintain
That ’twould need six strong men and a “jacket,”
And a syringe, to make us again
Taste those terrible drinks that we quaffed at
In the frenzy of ardour new-born,
Till our poems were publicly laughed at,
And our “ locals ” regarded with scorn.
Now, we’ve told you, dear Bishop, concisely.
Ail about our one little mistake;
You’ll be fatherly, won’t you ? and nicely
Advise us in what brands to slake
Our tyrannical thirst. Is it risky,
Do you find, to write sermons on gin ?
Do you take that, or patronise whisky
When you need strength to preach against sin ?
Do you plunge your episcopal beak in
A tankard of Bass’s, before
You go on with mien lowly, and meek in
The steps of the Lord you adore ?
Kindly tell your/experience. We’re sure it
Will give comfort and guidance “ to all,”
And full many a toil-stricken curate
who may listen in vain for a call
From the Lord to a better-paid billet,
Where the saving of souls rakes in wealth.
Will produce his tin measure, and fill it,
And drink gladly your Lordship’s good health!
Let us know—we are panting to know it—
If the drink that a bishop imbibes,
Is the right sort to give to a poet ?
Does it act upon saints as on scribes ?
We have turned out “ Plain English ” on tots of l
The rum of the North, and lull oft
For our leader have ordered six pots of
Colonial, and raised them aloft;
We have written, sustained by dark brandy,
Biting “Denominational Drops”
(When we’d nope ot our own liquor handy
We’d sneak into the studio for “ flops ”).
What's your verdict on potheen ? Pray give it;
It mspires us w ith “ Pepper and Salt.”
As for verse—when we re charged with Glenlivet,
Never once does our ardent muse halt;
“ Sporting Items,” and records rf slaughter,
And all screed of a similar kind.
We pro uce upen Botany water,
Which inflames and unhinges the mind.
Thai a how we do. By next mail inform us,
Good Bishop, what drinks you think best
To inspire Uo, and urge us, and warm us;
Also tbll us, we humbly request,
Jubt how lar may each one be indulged in
Without risking our soul—don’t forget—
Though 'lis do.ted and damaged, and bulged in—
We are wtak. a'u, have hope for it yet.
Professor Anderson tuart.
On the first page of this day’s irsue of The
BiiiiLaTiN is given a portrait of Prciesaor Ander-
son Stusrt, Dean if the Faculty cf Medicine at
Bydney University, under wbo»e ab'e direction
the medical school has attained a status which
augurs great things for its future.
W. C. Wall elected for Mudge© (N.S.W.)
unopposed. Whrrr e ere the Boy Pc lit'eian, the
crushed Cameron, and the irreoressibie Crick?
Varney Parkes says that the Hand of Pro-
vidence has more to do with national prosperity
thau Free-tradb or Protection. As the Hana of
Provid nee was accused by Mr. Dibbs of haviDg
nabbed a million or po of tbepub'ic funds, it woul-1
he as well to try a Protection-from-the-Hand-ol-
Providence pa.iy.
“ Jack ” Want, the N.o. W. Attoriic-y-
Gen.ral sajs tv at the Questions which nave oecri
asked ir. the House and the comments of the
Press thereon have done more than anything else
to defeat the erd of justice in re the Railway
funds But will Mr. Want say that anything would
have been dote if Mr. Abigail had not worked up
AN OLD JOKE.—NOT ENTIRELY IGNORANT.
FIRST BOATMAN: "BEGOSH, MIKE. THE BOAT’S SINKING! DO SOMETHING
BELIGIOUB, QUICK!”
SECOND BOATMAN: "FAITH! AN’ IT’S NOTHIN’ KNOW OF RELIGIOUS
OBSERVANCES.”
FIRST BOATMAN: “HEAVENS! CAN’T YOU THINK OF ANYTRING AT ALL?”
SECOND BOATMAN: “BEGORBA! OI HAVE IT. WE’LL TAKE UP A COLLECTION!”
evidence in this matter? * a an ex-Cabinet Minister
is openly alleged to be implicated, tde public are
uafcu,rally suspicious «s to the nature of the treat-
ment of his case. It is very wrone. the public
should not be suspicious, but they are so, never-
theless.
As usual, the distribution of titles to the
colonists has been productive of very much dis-
satisfaction. The elevation of tin Rt Hon. W. B.
Dailey will be generally applauded, but colonial
Radicals will regard Graham Berry’s knighthood
as the price of his political conscience. Mr, B osisto
refuses to u?e the letters C M.G. after his name.
No doubt he takes them to mean “ Gan Manufac-
ture Gum-oil”—a tribute to his one life work.
Considering t h at the Qupen specially admired ths
eucalyptus oil at the Exhibition (vide London cor-
respondent’s letter in the Sydney D.T\) Mr.
Bosisto should have got a dukedom at the very
least.
I
The front Opposition benches in the
N.B.W. Assembly, on Tuesday night, were one
lurid glow of OraDgeism. Sir Hanry Parkes wss
at the oost of honour, and near him sat the •• Pro-
testant ascendancy ” crowd Lloyd, Foster,
Abigail, Clarke, and the others of the same fac-
tion. Sir Henry has, doubtless, mane a satisfac-
tory explanation about the Home Rule business
to Mr. Abigail, so it will be “me and Parses ”
again with the little dictator. Messrs. Heydon,
0 Sullivan, and Kidd have gone to the Opposition
cross-benches with the object of acting as balance-
weight to the main parties in the House. Their
.party does not appear very terrible so far, but the
brow of the O’Sullivan is portentous of future
triumphs.
The South Australian Budget Speech of
Tuesday night shows that the deficit now
totals £852 897. This is is not quite up to the New
South Wales million and a quarter, but consider-
ing that, including even Chinamen, there are only
819,769 persons in the younger colony as agairst a
million “ Walers,” the South Australian balance
must really be considered a fairly reasonable thing
in the way of shortages. The previous Treasurer
had sn intermission of something like half-a-
million in the public accounts in December last,
ard the present balanoe is just £355 300 ahead of
what he estimated that it would be. Financial
prophecies don’t appear, judging by this instance,
to be a more re iable article in Adelaide than they
are in Sydney. Expenditure for next year, with
the present shortage added, will amount to
£3,066 953, and the probable revenue is stated at
£2.114 924, leaving a gap of £952,029 which Mr. Bray
(significant namel) proposes to stuff up by
new probate and stamp duties, by levying on
the Civil servants to the tune of £14,000, and by
selling their holdings to selectors who have re-
sided on them for six years. The present financial
statement is just what might be expected in S.A.
For saints and shortages that colony is nulli
seeundus.
The Bourke Abduction Case.
The jury who sat on the case of Father Huggard,
of Bourke, N.S.W., have finally decided that a girl
of tender years is one of the few worldly thipgs
that a modern clergyman must not steal, and the
rev. father has been found guilty of abduction in
consequence. It is gratifying to learn that the
clerical profession will have to draw the line some-
where. The parsors in general have full permis-
sion to embezzle the 12apostles, to misappropriate
the four Gospels and any more they cm lay their
hands upod, to finance upon the Mosaic law, and
to float the prophets into a limited liability com-
pany, and they use this extended liberty to the
utmost, but beyond these bounds they must not go.
Father Huggard’s defence, however, showed that
his ideas of priestly power are rathtfi: extensive.
He claimed a right in his professional capacity “ to
decide over the conscience of a child belonging t j
his flock,” and, no doubt, it come s within his scope
to influence the aforesaid conscience by inform-
ing its owner that Gehenna is chokefull of little
girls who refused to go into convents when on
earth. His concern even extended to the bodies
and souls of the jurymen, and he pointed
out \ s a result of deciding sgainEt him
that they would make themselves “supremely
ridiculous in the eyes of the whole world 1” And,
sad to say, the jury have been and gone and done
exactly what the rev. gentleman said they would.
They have made themselves supremely ridiculous
by tacking on to their verdict of guilty a strong
recommendation to mercy, without stating its
grounds, and apparently tbeir desire was that this
tonsured relic of ancient superttition should be at
once turned loose upon sociely, to indulge his per-
verted taste for saving the soul of young Austra-
lia in bis own peculiar way. Why Father Huggard
deserves such consideration very few people will
understand. If he is a mete fanatio it might do
simply to ship him off to some land where the
market for this kind of zoological curiosity is
more active, for in Australia fanatics are in weak
demand at something under 5 cents per dezert,
and are only quoted a fraction higher than Manx
cats. If he is a kleptomaniac, who fancies little
girls in place of watches and pocket-handker-
chiefs, let him be disposed of in a cool and shady
spot adapted to maniacs of that peculiar descrip-
tion. And if he is something less respectable than
either of the above, then he should be treated in
a manner at once less respectable and less respect-
ful. But why the jury imagine a man should be
allowed to insult and outrage the com-
munity simply because he has built up for
himself or allowed to be but. up for him,
a creed which calls on him to do so,
and yet go virtually unpunished, we cannot
imagine. Certainly, no similar indulgence is ex-
tended to others whose peculiar tenets may lead
them to borrow, not the daughters, but merely
the umbrellas, and other portable property of the
colonists. The Hindoo stranger, whose defalca-
tions go no further than taking possession of a
horse, gets no particular consideration, and yet
his doctrines teach him to believe the horse
possesses an immortal soul, and he may have taken
the animal with the pure intention of leading him
by the forelock into eternal life, or driving him
there in a spring van. The banking heathen who
takes what is not his’n, gets mercy enough, but
even Tie has a bad time of it in comparison with
the religious fanatic of the present day. Father
Huggard has certainly more oause to congratu-
late himself on his esoape than if he had dodged
beiDg made a K.C.MG., or got away in safety
from a large and influential deputation which
wanted him to contest the Mudgee election; and
if a man of his stamp is capable of taking a lessoD,
he will allow hisflock to run their own consciences
in future, and sand his hands with a view to get-
ting and keeping a firm grip on his own.
Isaac Lazars Nose.
The oustomary jewel-robbery is now in full swing
in England, and the bag of mysterious bones is
•ropping up as usual in the Thames, but the mind
of man desires some more novel excitement,
and all these things are vanity. The daily
bank forgery is also prospering, and the
dynamite prophet is prophesying with his
wonted accuracy, but the public demand
change and variety, and both have at last
been supplied by an extraordinary legal diffi-
culty—the problem of Isaac Lszar’s no~e, which is
the talk of London and a mine of wealth to the
journalists of Europe. The nose was of the tru&
Jerusalem breed, of a bay-horse colour, large,
mellow, and trained by years of banking experi-
ence to poke into other people’s business, and it,
along with a bald bead, a harsh voioe, a corpulent
figure six feet in height, a love of intoxicants,
good living, tobacco, cigars, and betting, and some
clothes, made up the personality of Isaao Lazar,
accountant in the Preston Joint Stock Bank!
Associated with him was another nose, of the
description which blossomed in front of Juliuo
Cnesar when that immortal warrior rushed
on to victory, and the man to whom
this belonged used to sign his name—when
be wasn't signing somebody else’s—as Peroy
Whyte. He may be briefly described as a thin,
delicate, fair, red-curly-haired, total abstinence!
Sunday school teaching. Young Men’s Christian
Association, poetic, milk-and-soda-water young
gentleman, and his occupation was that of a
ledger-keeper. The dissppeararce of this pair
with £BO,OOO of the bank funds early in 1885,
created some little interest in poilte circles, and a
reward of £4OOO was offered for their apprehension.
This resu’ted, 12 months’ later, in the arrest of
Hargrave and M’Crombie, Financial Agents, of
London, and on their trial the identification was
complete except for one unhappy circumstance.
The senior partner of the firm was either Lazar
himself or his double, but he was wearing Whyte’s
nofe, while it was unanimously voted thatM‘Crom-
bie was either Whyte or the devil in person, but
yet he stood calmly in the dock and blew an olfac-
tory organ exactly similar to the one Lszar was
wont to poke into other people's business when in
the employ of the Preston Joint Stock Bank, and
the very duplicate of that which the same Lszar
was accustomed to follow on his way home when
his duties were over for the day. Whyte, too, had
never smoked in his life, but yet the so called
Hargrave carried a dirty pipe all day beneath that
gentleman’s borrowed organ; he had never tasted
intoxicants or used bad language, and yet his nose
in its new quarters neither recoiled nor shuddered
when Hargrave absorbed grog and ejected deep
bass profanity in its immediate vicinity. On the
other hand, the prisoner who called himself
M'Crrmbie was daily dipping L-zar’s debauched
Hebrew beak into milk and sodawater, and snuff-
ling Sunday-school prayers through a feature
which had hitherto inhaled tobacco-smoke rather
than the odour of sanctity, and been wiped in
the midst of wicked orgies by night and in the
betting-ring by day. These were strong points for
the d< fence, but the line followed by the prosecu-
tion damaged them considerably. A surgeon who
bad examined both prisoners pointed out that
each nose was surrounded by a scar, and after
quoting eases in support of his novel theory be
expressed the opinion that the prisoners had ex-
changed noses by the s'mple process of cutting
them off and refitting them in an unaccustomei
qua: ter. The experiment had been remarkably
successful, but the traces of the operation re-
mained. Three other doctors supported this as*
tonisbing suggestion, and a photographer then
produced portraits of the prisoners, and by cut-
ting eff and transposing the noses changed them
into/acsimflesofttae photos, of the twomensomuch
wanted at Preston. Then arose a storm of wrath
and contempt from the lawyer for the defence.
Even his w s g bristled with scorn when be de-
manded whether this system of patching up bor-
rowed features might not be carried to its legiti-
mate conclusion by fixing Mr. Gladstone's head,
choke-full of theories for the regeneration of Ire-
land, on the dissipated shoulders and depraved
legs of Theebaw, ex-King of Burmah, and then
placmg the Asiatic monster on the Treasury
bench, and the Grand Old Man in cor flnement at
Madras; or whether it would be allowable to graft
the ever-retreating legs of Milan of Servia on to
the warlike stomach of the Prince of Wales. The
Judge confined himself to pointing out that the
prisoners possessed between them the noses and
other worldly possessions of two noted criminals,
but heshbked one important question—whether l
in the event of Lszar being found guilty as the
principal, and Whyte merely as an accessory, it
would be justifiable to allow Whyte’s nose to
languish for years in a dungeon after its owner's
sentence had expired; while Lszar's olfactory
organ, in spite of its load of guilt, would be en-
joying the sweets of freedom. The jury, how-
ever, probably saw this difficulty, and failing to
come to a decision, they were discharged, so that
the twin noses will again blush at the bar of jus-
tice at next assizes—it is to be hoped with better
results. But one noteworthy circumstance has
seemingly been overlooked by every writer who
has discussed this case, namely, that the Jew, as
usual, got the best of the bargain—he parted with
bis bloated Canaan itish excrescence, and seoursd
in exchange a genuine Christian proboscis.
There is at least one happy Christian
family at Adelpng, N.S.W. Their address is at the
vicarage, and life in that bower of b;iss seems to
be summed up in one sentence: “ Who’ll tread on
the tail of me coat?” Within the last few days a-
grand washing of dirty surplices in public has
taken place, and four ordinary Js.P. have assisted
at the show, Mrs. Soares swears that her revereDd
husband pulled her out of bed twice, hurt her
severely, and threatened her with bis fists, simply
because she told him bis language was only fit for'
a pot-house; that her son rang the dinner bell in
her face, and, finally, that a family syndicate, con~-
sistiDg of half the Soares family, threw her out
into the hall and forced her to take refuge in flight
and hysterics. The Rev. G. Scares, a clerk in holy
orders, (which, we preeume, means a sort of
anointed cashier,) swears, on the other hand, that
the trouble arose becaute Mrs. Soares called her'
daughter various things, including “a low, pot-
house girl,” and tore that young lady’s dress
to shivers. The daughter and the other
members of the family endorse this view<
of the case, and all combine in describing
Mrs. Soares as a lady with a temper like that
of an old bull-goat, and a profound and holy
disregard for veracity. It appears from their
statements that she was not kicked out into the
hall; on the contrary, she kicked herself out and
screamed while she was doing it, and when once
outside she shrieked on the verandah and departed
from the truth on the front steps, uniil the neigh-
bourhood was in an uproar. The swearing on both]
sides of the oase was hard and numerous, but no-
thing came of it. The J.’sP., who never quailedi
before a “drunk and disorderly,’’ or shirked their
duty in a cow-trespass oase, found themselves
utterly unable to deal with all this cross evidence,
and were content at last to utter a few plaintive
platitudes and dismiss the charge. Life must be a.
happy affair in the vicarage at Adelong.


Parkes in a Tight Place.
HOME RULE OR ORANGEISM—WHICH ?


SOCIALS
On last Monday (Coronation Day) H.E.
the Governor and Lady Carington held a recep-
tion at Government House, Sydney. As
usual, everything was in the best style,
and the band played admirably. Among
those present were noticed Sir John and Lady
Robertson, Sir Patrick Jennings, Hon. W. B
Dailey, tho Maolean, Mrs H. E Cohen.
Mrs. and the Misses Badham, Admiral Tryon and
several offners of the fleet, the Misses Darley, Mifs
A. Hogg, the Misses Throckmorton, Lady Man-
ning, Mrs. Gullet. Mrs. Fisher, Mrs. Andrew,
Major and Mrs. Aircy, and many others. The day
was gloomy, so most of the ladies present covered
their finery with wrap 3 all more or less gorgeous,
especially the former. Mrs. Gullett's overall was
perhaps the most conspicuous, being a bright
royal blue plush edged with fox fur, and ner
bonnet a bright old gold colour. Lady Carington
showed exquisite taste in a dress of beautiful elec-
trio-blue ottoman silk, with a Roman scarf, which
was fastened on the right shoulder and crosted
over to tho left side, where it hung gracefully to
the hem of the skirt; bonnet of nut-brown terry
ornate with a pale cream olush bow.
* * *
It is absolutely necessary to remark, for
the edification of a lot cf people, that dirty hats
and boots, greasy coats, and cotton gloves don’t
very well fit in with Government House, Sydney,
under the present gorgeous regime. Nor do ball-
dress costumes (worn in open daylight by ladies
who sport hideous feathers and often allow their
hair to bang down to their waists* conduoo to the
pleasure of other people of more decent tastes.
However, in a demooratio community all due
allowances must be made for those who have to
agitate the haudle of the beer-engine bafore
dinner, and to scintillate as duchesses at the vice-
regal court during the afternoon.
• * *
Another thing. Vioe-regal refreshments,
we are requested to state, are designed merely to
temporarily revive the falling energies of the
Baron’s faithful subjects, and not to provide a
substantial meal incapable of being digested dur-
ing any period short of 48 hours. At Monday’s
reception, some people collected—ln fact, it may
be said actually “stacked up ’’—food, and, having
done so, retired to their respective oorners for the
purpess of erj >yiDg a “square feed.’’ Some
young people pocketed fruit, while bisouits had
absolutely no show at all.
* * *
Further, Jack and ’Arry have no right to
keep their hats on in the drawing-room or refresh-
ment-room. And why can’t Jack, and Jaek’s
master, leave the ornaments alone which His Ex-
cellency confidingly leaves on the tables ? Orna-
ments are made to be looked at, not to be felt and
smelt and openel.
* * *
And why, cannot you, O courtiers, when
you have snaken the poor aillicted vice-royals by
the hand, pass on and make way for the multi-
tude of others who prowl round the while, yearn-
ing to touch even the hems of their garment?
This query is addressed not so much to poor
’Arry as to Darling Point and Potts Point, who,
for a week at a stretch, live on nothing but a
smile from her charming ladyship, and a shake-
hands from his Excellency.
* * *
On Saturday afternoon, 26th, the Sydney
Gaiety Theatre was crowded with a “ high-toned ”
audience on the occasion of an amateur dramatic
performance given in a d of toe Ly-ee-Moon Relief
Fund. That the acting of the ladies was appreci-
ated, was clearly shown by beautiful baskets and
bouquets of flowers which found their way on to
the stage from the audience. Lord and Lady Caring-
ton arrived with their suites punctually at half-
past 2. A box in the middle of the stalls was
prettily arranged and decorated with ferns and
flowers for the use of the vioe-regai party.
Amongst the people assembled were noticed the
Bishop 61 Sydney and Mrs. Barry, Mr. and Mis.
Laidley, Mr. and Mrs. Robinson, Mrs. Barton, Mr.
and Mrs. Carl Fischer, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hogg,
Mr. and Mrs. Le Patoure), Mrs. G. B. Simpson and
Miss Hogg, Mr. and Mrs. Gillies and Miss Ruck,
Mr. Wrench and the Mis3es Throckmorton, Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Cape, Mr. and Mrs. Kelly, Miss
Macaulay, &c. Some handsome dresses were dis-
played by the ladles, but the crush was too great
to allow of the finery being seen to advantage.
One dress must be mentioned—a bright blue vel-
vet robe, trimmed with heavy grey fur, and the
bonnet, a wonder in yellow velvet.
• a •
Lady Clarke, wife of the Victorian
baronet of that ilk, who attended the Queen’s last
drawlDg-room on the sth of May, wore a court
train ot lovely white and silver brocade lined witn
antique satin; the petticoat of the same satin was
handsomely festooned with Honiton Jace and held
back with trailing clusters of shaded liowers and
foliage: the corsage to correspond was finished
with a stomacher of diamonds. Lady Wilson, who
also attended, was attired in a petticoat of rose-
pink satin draped with the flaest Venetian blonde,
showing the colour through; the train was of
white brocaded satin, having thereon bunches
of pink roses in the pompadour style; the train
had also panels of moss-green velvet lined with
pink satin. Mrs, Dauntesey, of Agecroft, wore a
very much admired dress on the same occasion;
It was a mass of soft whiteness just touched with
silver, like a snow-peak under the glances of a
noon-day sun; the most ethereally fine web-like
duchesse lace was very profusely draped over the
skirt. It found its source and end in snowy
m»sses ot ostrich feather; the train was white and
silver bioeade, and on it were groups of feather
plumes softly waving as their wearer walked; the
bodice was of satin trimmed with iace, and with
a snow-white feather plume over the left shoulder.
* * *
Lord Carington and a party have been
camping out near Moss Va e getting some shoot-
ing. Tne sport was poor, but Mos 3 Vale is not a
shooting centre. For kangaroo and other native
game one must go to New England. A vice-regal
residence at, now for instance-there’s a hint, eh,
John Moore ?—Armidale.
* * *
Mrs. Airey’s children’s party, which took
place on Wednesday last, at tne Victoria Barracks,
was an unqualified success.
* * *
A very pleasant evening was spent by a
large number of Mrs. George Lord's friends on
Tuesd-y evening, tne 22nd, at Kirketon, where the
hostess entertained tneminher usual amiable and
hospitable manner.
* * *
The Sydney Private Assembly held their
eeeond meeting for the teason od Friday evening,
the 24th. The affair was thoroughly successful in
every way.
t ® a
On Friday evening, the 25th, Mrs. Hall, of
Addington college, Macleay-street, entertained a
large circle of her friends at a most pleasant
dance. „ „ *
Oa Wednesday, the 23id, Captain Gas-
coigne, A.D.U., left Sydney on a visit to Queens-
land. While away he intends to see as much ct
the back-blocks as possible in the time.
* * •
“Society” is always anxious to know
what the meet is doing. So many are interested
in its “ movements.” Tuere are on board so many
possible husbands prepared to share the last dollar
of tne Sydney rich girls. Well, just to help them
alon«, we have taken some trouble to find out
what thejsbips are “up to.” Tne Nelson is almost
ready for sea, and is expected by her officers to
leave for Brisbane on Thursday, unless war is
deolared against New Caledonia by Parkes and the
Daily Telegraph, in whioh case she’ll go to
Noumea and land Parkes and the D.T. staff. That,
it is thought, will clear the island or kill the
inhabitants. H.M.B Harrier and Lark were
in Cooktown on the 23th ult.. both doing
we 1. The Myrmidon arrived at Townsville on the
same day from the Barrier Reef. Undine is at
Brlsbane-the oommander still being “inter-
viewed.” Plying Fish arrived from China at Port
Darwin on the 23rd ult. Dart and Raven cruising
in the South Seas looking for villages to up.
The Opal is to be left in Sydney to protect Pinch-
gut.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Beaumont, of Burwood,
have issued invitations for a ball to be given at
Burwood on the 7th of July.
* * *
Mrs. Archibald Cox, of Greta, Darling
Point, bas issued invitations for a dance to be
given at her residence on Wednesday, June 30.
■ * *
Mrs. Arthur Maoarthur, of Darlinghurst,
gave a pleasant party on the evening of Friday,
the 23th. The first part of the programme was
devoted to the juvenile gu i sts, who odjoyed them-
selves most thoroughly.
* * *
On Tuesday evening, the 22nd ult., the
Sydney Sooials hpld their sixth meeting at Leigh
House. About 140 people assembled and did jus-
tice to the well-selected programme of 16 dances.
The room was becomingly lighted with varieus
shaped Chinese lanterns. White dresses were most
conspicuous. A lovely one was worn by a good
dancer, and was composed of white crepe de chine
beautifully draped with white lace ; clusters of
silver grass were placed about the skirt, and a
bunch was worn on the left shoulder. Another
fairy-like and lovely dress was white lace over
white satin, profusely trimmed with clear glass
beading. A bertba composed of the same beading
finished off the deoollete bodice. A fair, graceful
girl also wore a pretty white drees of sitin, with
trimmings of tulle and lace and quantities of
pearl fringes and ornaments. A heliotrope silk
gown, nearly covered with a pretty-patterned
lace, was much admired.
* * *
As the Mayor of Sydaey has announced
his ball for the 21st July, the Mercs, meet on
Friday ti consider whether they will postpone
their little flutter for a week.
* * *
A pleasant dance was given at Alfreba,
Stanmore, last Wednesday week.
* * *
So Sydney’s ohiefest usurer has got another
victim. No wonder the uiurer locates his busi-
ness premises not too far off the Insolvency Court.
* * *
We are sorry to hear that Miss Chapman,
eldest daughter of the sporting editor of the Aus-
tralasian, died last week.
o * e
Sydney society has its kleptomaniao who
steals everything he can lay his hands upon.
Spoons are his specialty.
• o o
Mr. A. G. Steel, the English amateur
cricketer, who was so popular in Australian
society, has just married the daughter of Mr. J. P.
Thomas, of Caloutta.
* ■ *
It is believed that the only ocoasion since
the Deluge on which so huge an iuvitation-card
as that issued by Mayor Young for his Jubilee
dinner was put out, was the coronation of King
Kalak, of the Sandwich Islands, four or live
years ago.
• * •
At Grafton, N.S.W., the committee ap-
pointed to receive Lord Carington on his recent
visit appear to be almost reduced—as a committee
—to a state of insolvency. The cash in hand is
down to £B6 9j. 6d., and a hotel bill of £146 10s.
remains to be settled. In this desperate 6tra t an
appeal was made to the landlord for an abatement,
and finally it was agreed that £136 would be ao-
oepted in full. Tne Governor gave permission
that the house should In future be called “The
Carington: Hotel,” and this is probably reckoned
as a set-off to the 10 guineas discount.
* * *
One of the greatest personages now in
England Is Mr. James Thomson, who, in black
velvet court-dress, must have looked a perfict
beauty. Accounts of his “ movements” are pub-
lished In the papers; thus we see It recorded
that: “Yesterday Mr. James Thomson, saorttary
of the Royal Commission for Victoria, had tem-
porarily foregone the claims of the Colonial and
Indian Exhibition at Kensington in order that he
might enjoy a compatriotic ‘coo-ee’ with the
cricketers of his native land at Sheffield Park.”
• * •
The funeral of the unfortunate James
Talbot took place last Saturday. He was the
gunner of H.M.B. Opal,and was frightfully injured
—another man was Killed at the same time-while
firing a royal salute on Coronation Day in Sydney
harbour. The cortege was composed of men and
officers belonging to the fleet. The coffin was on
a gun carriage with the Union Jack over all
kind hands had placed beautiful floral decorations
on the bier. The Dead March was played by the
band of the INelson, and this was the reason why
it was not present at the Gaiety Theatre as adver-
tised. We wonder how many poor fellows are
annually killed in following the same idiotic
expensive custom of blowing off powder? This
fetish is a relic of the time when kings were
thought to be gods and had to be appeased by
noise and burnt-offerings. It is time that such
offerings should be discontinued—at least human
ones.
* * *
It’s a little unsafe to write a critique too
soon. The Sunday Times of the 27th inst. in-
forms the public that the comedy of “ Our Boys ”
was a great success, and that the Nelson band
officiated during the afternoon. Yes it did—at a
funeral, but not at ** oir Boys.” That’s the worst
of trying to give the public “ the latest intelli-
gence.”
* * *
On Friday evening, the 25th, a very suc-
cessful concert was kindly given by Mis. Palmer
at Watson Bay in aid of the “ Penny Readings.”
The concert was held in the schoolroom, which
wa3 prettily decorated with green foliage and
flags. Amongstthe audience were Lady Robert-
son, Lady Maclay, the Rev. G. N. Woodd, Mrs. and
the Misses Woodd, Mrs Roberts, Captain and Mrs.
LePatourel, Captain and Mrs. Airey, Miss Bell, Mr.
and Mrs. Spiers, Mr. Robertson, Mr. W. Woodd,
Dr. and Mrs. Sibley, Mr. and Miss Siddons, &c.
* * *
On Wednesday last Mr. Chisholm and Miss
M'Kellar were married quietly at Goulbourn, and
left for Melbourne for their honeymoon.
& to £
At the Ly-ee-Moon benefit at Sydney
Gaiety last Saturday, all the nobles of tne city
might have been seen; they always show up in the
cause of charity—when they know that H.E. and
Lady Carington ara to be present! Lord, to
watch the pretty struggle to catch the vlce-Tegal
eye and get a smile ot recognition! How Potts
Pointers scowled at B. N. Jones beeause he ushered
in the “ suite ”! Mow they hated him for the gor-
geous position that he filled I Our share of royalty
was humble. We once caught a glimpse of the
back of the vice-regal head. Tflia does not satisfy
us. Still for several hours the torm ot the Primate
was 1q our line of sight. In fact, he nearly hid the
stage and George from us. Bat we were appeased
—the obstruction was “the head of the Church,
and we are used to the situation.
v V ¥
At the “Colonies,” in London, Lord Belmore
and Lord Augustus Loftus applied for cards of
admission to the ceremony on the ground ot
being ex-colonial governors. They were promptly
refused. Fortunately, the colonial office admitted
Henniker Heaton and Sam Wilson, or we would
have been compelled, however reluctantly, to
recall Sir Samuel from the Court of St. James .and
break off all diplomatic communications with the
English Government. But Ministers gave way,
and strengthening the polioe foroe at Albert Hall,
admitted “Australians in England,” by ticket—of
leave.
* * *
Now that the popular Hon. MissJuiith
Harbord has gone, every woman in “sasslety”
claims to have been her “ dearest friend.”
» * *
Some people apparently go to a theatre to
give the audience the benefit of tbeir opinions on
other people. At a Sydney theatre lately an
elderly dame became quite outrageous, and
abused her domestic circle so severely and loudly
that the players wern't “In it” and all eveßwere
fixed on the “ family circle.” Not the first time
this kind of thing has been noticed.
* + *
Mrs. A rmstrong, the Australian songstress,
bids fair to make a reputation in London. Garz,
the composer, has engaged her to appear at two
grand conoerts.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Philharmonic Concert, University Hall
American Garden Party, Botany
Amerioan Ball, Town Hall • •••••
Masonic Lodge St. Andrew Sooial Re-
union and Dansante, West’s Room! ...
Eastern Suburbs A. A. Club Social, Nithe-
dale
July 1.
July 4.
July 4.
July 8
July 18.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Melbourne Age has forsaken the sub-
ject of Protection, and commenced analysing the
mysteries of the celeßtial regions —Things were
c.wkward for a lot of people who met Cardinal
Moran in St. Francis’ Presbytery yard on the oc-
casion of Arohblshop Goold’s funeral obsequies.
They flopped down to receive the Cardinal's
blessing and sank several inohos into the mud—
Sydney DT. is surprised at Judge Innes’ ruling
that attorneys must not “ Bhear” the publio by
charging, as Solicitor Coonan did, for work never
done and for counsel’s fees that have never been
paid. Tao paper says that both the publio and the
lawyers wills sk: "If these principles are to pre-
vail, how is the legal profession to be main-
tained?’ I3n’tthis very like saying: "To be a
successful lawyer you must be an infernal rogue.”
....The N.Z. Houses of Parliament are sending a
jubilee congratulation to Queen Victoria. But
there is no one to congratulate poor Theebaw....
Aid. Torning says Sydney dancing-rooms are
"veritable moutbp of hell.” The alderman can-
not speak from personal knowledge. All the
aldermen who have got so far as the mouth of
hell are to have been run in.... The
Central Alstralian says that "The River
Paroo is now a banker.” This means, we pre-
sume, that it will shortly be damned-the usual
end of bankers...’.The Riverine Evening Star
says that the Escaped Nun, who has been making
a raree show of herself up at Wagga, "is marked
with the true stamp of a lady.”—A Back-blocks
paper describes, under the title of “An Extra-
ordinary Sight,” how a wife was being
buried in the local cemetery, fell into convulsions
and had to be held down by several persoES....
There is a man in England " who for 10 days at a
time goes without sleeping.” He never reads the
B.M. Herald.... Walking along the beach the
other morning, at Portland (Vic), a man saw a
boot in the sand and pensively kicked it. Then he
noticed that it contained a foot. The rest of the
body was absent.... The Newcastle Daily News
mentions with some surprise that a whale was seen
within a mile of the ooast. It was probably looking
for a Jonah to bring round to sinful Sydney. The
whale that would go to Newcastle to look for a
pious man! would go to Sheol to look for Iced sherry.
....The Lazarus rqlnes (Sandhurst) stook jumped
from £lB,OOO to £83.250 in three days.... Hon. John
Mactntosb, M.L.0,, says the richest people of
N.B.W. are without brains. Who gave John Mac-
intosh a brief for colonial brains ?....The loss of
the fine iron ship, North American, which left
Melbourne 18 months Bgo and has never been
heard of since, is now attributed to her having
struck the " Antipodes,” some rocky islets equidis-
tant from N.Z. and Ctpe Horn, and which were
wrorgly located oa her chart. At Port
Moresby, New Guinea, a missionary society's
teacher killed a native by striking him on the head
with an sxr. Htlle’ujah! Anotter nigger in
Heaven. ...The Victorian Irrigation Bill deals with
3,242 000 acres at a cost of £1,800,0.0 ...Melbourne
AGEsajs Murray Bmith once had trouble in per-
suading English people that Australian colonists
seldom had more than one wife at a lime,
usually of European extraction, properly
draped, and warranted not to bite. The
Adeiong Times suggests that the sentence on
Hinder, the bank manager, for the shooting of
Wolfe, who has at last died, should be shortened
as John Davies suggests-shortened to five
minutes in the open air with a hemp cravat to
keep his neck warm.....01d man Solomon File s,
tried at Melbourne recently for unlawfully shoot-
ing at and mi. sing a larrikin who was annoy mg
him, was found guilty of feloniously failing to hit
a public nuisance and was sentenced to be im-
prisorei until the rising of the court.... The
manager of tae Camel Carrying Co., of Adelaide,
reports that a number of men are making north-
wards from Queensland to the Mulligan River,
and across to the overland telegraph line, en route
for the Kimberley gold-diggings 1 Many of them
must die by the way.... Two Chinamen are in
trouble at -\delong for bailing up a stray horse in
their garden and soothing it with a gate post and
a tomahawk....K. Styche, of Parramatta, lately
chased a bailiff with an axe and went to gaol.
Now he has gone to gaol again for encouraging
nis stepson with a red-hot poker....A Sydney
clergyman is said to have passed the plate round
recently for a charitable purpose. When it came
baek empty, he exclaimed, " Thank the Lord, they
didn’t steal the p1ate.”...." Delabasher,” according
to the aydney E. News, is the came of an Italian
injured at Peat's Ferry. The reporter who gave
an Italian the name of Delabasher, probably
comes from Tipperary. ...The New Hebrides have
a population of 75,000 only.... Much trouble is ex-
perienced in getting any suitable person to become
Bishop of Melbourne. The Victorians are deter-
mined this time to get a man with good digestion.
.. A Perth p iper states that, a short time ago, the
carriage of a cart-load of provisions, drawn by
three horses, from Derby to the Kimberley fields,
cost a party of diggers £l5OO Jones, in Victoria,
says he looks forward to a time when the country
wiil refuse to be “ newspaper-ridden.” He is a
politician, and is tired of being shown up.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The Turks and Greeks who wished to fight,
And nearly came to blows,
Have dropped their guns, and wired here
To Summerfield for clothes.*
Wolfe's Schnapps as a tonio aud stimulant
cannot be surpassed.
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
%
U
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
Iviyiui
HI
'
L -
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A largo selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb. ' .
MO!
_£»o K PIANOFORTE,
d&uO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
si
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rnler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
m
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fubniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gs
WIALNUT revolving
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier —a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
room?. New designs covered to order in
any material.
dfg
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb._
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
R~ OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street. 1
sd
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
fg
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs.
Price, from 11s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 1-s. '. ,
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, iron
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar feiae-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. ba.,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s ;
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR,


PEPPER AND SALT.
“ The authorities at the Coloaial Office are
aghast at the number of gentlemen suggested as
recipients of honours in connection with the Colo-
nial and Indian Exhibition.”— (Argus telegram.)
DESPERATE DIXON.
There is a debating society in Bourke whioh
meets every week to settle the affairs of the
universe. In a late issue of one of the local papers
we saw that this illustrious *‘ push” are going to
discuss “ Whether Home Rule for Ireland will be
a benefit to the Empire.” We also notice that
“ Messrs. Fry, Smith and Parsons are to affirm
that Home Rule will be a benefit to the Empire”
and that ‘‘Mr. Dixon has stated that he will oppose
anything and everything that Mr. Parsons may
affirm.” There's an Ajax for you I There’s a
valiant spouter 1 We are not at all interested in
what conclusion these back-blockers of Bourke
may come to with regard to Home Rule, but we
own to a consuming interest in Dixon. We are
taken by his fine recklessness of manner ; his
attitude of devil-may-care 'defiance ; but most of
all by his antipathy to Parsons. We would like to
know Dixon’s reason. We wiil woo him in
rhyme
Under the exciting heading of “ Run to
earth,” the Melbourne Herald tells In thrilling
language how, In the hallowed hush of the Sab-
bath gloaming, a desperate criminal entered
a house in Malvern and began to burgle.
Also how a young man happened to see him and
gave alarm to the police, and how “ a large num-
ber of residents immediately turned out to join in
the chase, one gentleman arming himself with a
loaded gun I” The reckless ruffian was followed
for a mile and a half, and then “ the party came
up with the escapee, who, being an old man, 80
years of age, could not get along very fast, and he
was promptly arrested.” If it takes all the police
and half the rest of the population of Malvern to
capture an old man of 80, we reckon that two de-
termined Chinamen armed with clotbes-props
could sack it any day they pleased. 8ide by side
with the paragraph concerning this wicked old
man there is one about a good old man who is the
“ Oldest Living Victorian Colonist,” and has had
to support himself by making wire forks, until
lately when he became too feeble even to do that.
See the difference between these two men. One
struggles along eking out a miserable and meagre
livelihood by making wire forks, the other goes
gaily out at twilight and comes home with a
bundle of forks ready made-and silver ones at
that. One or two bits of luck in a month keep him
in flghtiDg-cock food, generous liquor, and the
best of tobacco. The fact of his being such a rare
old sprinter is sufficient proof that he lived well.
Of course he gets into gaol periodically—but what
of that? The other old colonist-the good old
man who helped the Hentysto lay the first founda-
tion of Victoria—has nothing better than the
Benevolent Asylum to look forward to. Now
what is the moral of these men’s lives ? If we did
not believe that there is another world where all
accounts are squared up and set straight we would
turn religious to-morrow and get all the wicked-
ness we gould out of this one.
TOT THE COLONIAL OFFICE.
That telegram gives us distress,
When we think of the dozens and scores
Of snobs who will perish, unless
As knights they return to our shores;
They have so looked forward to this,
The object it was of their trips—
And now shall the goblet of bliss
Be dashed from their quivering lips ?
What matters how many you knight ?
It makes, after all, little odds,
If they live in a dream of delight
And go to their graves little gods.
Oh I let ’em come swaggering baok
With handles in front of their names—
Sir Johnny, Sir Tom, and Sir Jack,
Sir Peter, Sir Dick, and Sir James.
Nay, grumble no more at the list,
At none of these people demur;
’Twere rough upon Tom to he missed
If Dick got the coveted “ Sir
They’re all of ’em suitable men
(Aspiring apostles of plush),
Sc, tar the whole crowd of ’em, then,
Alike with a bountiful brush.)
Bear this little matter In mind;
’Tis we who should kick up a fuss—
They’ll soon leave old England behind
And dwell in their glory with us.
You’ll knight ’em and tell ’em to go,
Not long will your agony last—
But we're the poor beggars, you know,
That ought to be rather “ aghast.”
DISPERATE DIXON.
Come tell us, desperate Dixon, tell,
Why quite so mad
You are with Parsons—why you fell
Out with that lad ?
When you and he meet on the street,
Do you pass by
Without a word that youth to greet,
And if so—why ?
Say, Is this feud of ancient date ?
Did, years ago,
The Dixons and the Parsons hate
Each other so ?
And have they handed down from age
To age, the feud ?
And will you still the warfare wage ?
And what’s the good ?
Be wise and drown, lads, in three-star
Your foolish hate—
An. Iliad of Sandy Bar
Is out of date.
And, Dixon—do not think us rough—
Don’t be a Turk,
Without these feuds it’s bad enough
To live in Bourke.
Read this to Parsons—never fear
But it will curl
Him up. Now whisper in our ear—
Who was the girl ?
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The Sydney Corporation intends to frame
a set of rules as to the future allotment of the
players’spaoe on Moore Park. Under the old
system, the oricket clubs themselves used to
absorb the ground fees, and in some instances
made a few shillings out of it. But we believe, by
the new rules, ail the ground-fees will be handed
to the impoverished exchequer of the Council.
• a ■
The very latest about Edward Hanlan,
Esq., is that he expresses his strong preference for
a single-handed raoe with B« aoh. “ All I want is a
fair chanoe, which I did not get on the Parra-
matta Klver,” remarks the ingenious Edward, jn
whom the truth evidently is not. Edward got all
the chanoe he wanted.
■ * m
Pedestrianism has received another nasty
“jar” in England. The renowned Snook reoently
accomplished such wonderful feats In the way of
in-and-out running, that a sub committee of the
Amateur Athittlo Association has struck his name
off the amateur rolls. It appears that the cham-
pion still has the right to appeal to the general
oommittee, so that the chances are that he will be
ultimately whitewashed.
• * *
Whoever is resporslble for the sending off
of Reuter's cricket telegrams would seem to have
been instructed to make things coulmr de rose for
“Our Boys.” Be tho opening match at Sheffield
Park it was telegraphed that the Englishmen won
the toBS and naturally sent in their opponents to
bat on the dead wicket. This circumstance was
pleaded pretty considerably in exouse of the Aus-
tralian defeat. The facts of the case, according to
English letters to hand, are that “ Scott had the
good fortune to win the toss, and naturally eleoted
to take first iDnings.” Good wine needs no bush,
and the Australian team can afford to be judged
on its merits, without any partisan misrepresenta-
tion.
■ * *
Jem Smith, of England, and Sullivan, of
Amerioa, cannot come to terms as to the locale of
their proposed fight. Smith will only fight in Ire-
land, Sullivan in the Btatee. However, Dempsey,
who has fought 38 battles and never been beateD,
means, though a much lighter man, to tackle
Smith.
* * *
Mr. Con. Dwyer has succeeded in breaking
English bicyle records for J 4. Hi and one mile.
Unfortunately, such time cuiting honours are
somewhat indefinite. Given identical conditions
of traok, wind, weather, and watcfcholding. and in
that case the difference between 2min 38 2 5360.
and 2min. 39 2-53e0. would mean 10 or 11 yards in
the mile. But who on earth shall judge the rela-
tive values of two performances achieved indif-
ferent hemispheres, either of whioh performances
could be affected to the tune of one second by a
multiplicity of causes ? Taken apart from old-
world records, Dwyer’s Melbourne exhibition was
in itself something worth looking at, but it is idle
to lay too much stress upon what the watch
showed. If we do, It could easily be made out that
Dwyer lacked stamina In comparison with the
English record-holder, Webber. The latter a time
for tbe last quarter of a mile is two seconds less
than that ot the Australian. But why waste time
in hair-splitting when there is the morniDg'a fire-
wood yet unehopped ?
* * *
N.S.W. made an absurdly easy win against
Queensland in the intercolonial football match,
scoring nine goals to one.
• * *
At Foley’s on Saturday night, the chief
event was the six rounds between the champion
amateur and the much-improved Pablo Prank.
Contrary to expectation, no knock-out was at-
tempted on either side.
■» v *
Three horses came down in the old spot at
Canterbury course on Saturday. A big aooident
is already overdue.
* * *
So far as we have been able to compile
from the scores of the Australian Eleven, finishing
with the Players’ match, the following are the bat-
ting averages, in their order of merit
Name.
oi
c
M
•
O Q
Not out
lnmnpa.
Average
Trumble ..
«
188
2
311-3
Jones
15
451
'
30 1-15
Jarvis
0
345
2
28 10
Bonnor
i«
860
1
27 8-13
Evans
3
73
5
24 1-3
GHTen
13
277
1
30 1-12
Bruoo
8
178
—
321-4
Blackham .
, rt
11)
171
—
17 1-10
Boot!
14
m
—
17
Garrott
10
140
1
14
M‘ll wraith..
5
flfl
1
13 1-5
Palmer
5
35
1
7
Spoflorth .
a
«
2
2
Sammy Jones 30 1-15 for 15 innings is certainly a
splendid performance.
At a recent volunteer dinner in one of the
small southern towns of NS.W. a disturbance oc-
curred which resulted in the use of a weapon
that should only be uncovered in real battle. The
“ noisy ones” were summoned, but the cases were
not made public.
In Jersey City, U. 8., a man who offered
his seat in a tram-car to a lady was Immediately
shot dead by her husband. This is probably the
reason why so many ladies have to stand up and
cling on to somebody’s ear to steady themselves
when Sydney tram-cars are full.
Now what is the use of telling this story
to any but the marinas? “A gentleman got a
£5O cheque cashed in a Bydney bank As he left
the bank he found he had received £350. There
were three £lOO notes and 50 £1 notes He went
back to the counter and returned the £3001” We
claim all the italics.
(Scene—a city warehouse. Enter self-pos-
se(8 c d small boy.j
S.-p small boy—” Is the bess in
Superior clerk—-"Yaas, but he’s engaged just
now.”
8.-p. small boy—" What, do yer let ’im out by
the hour, then ? ’
A recent physiognomist has just discovered
that brown-eyed girls are vexed with many more
than the original compliment of seven devils. As
the blue, black, and gray-eyed girls have each
been the subjects of similar discoveries, tne pink-
eyed maiden in the circus should have a monopoly
of marriage proposals But it is as likely as not
that the circus-man would hardly warrant her
genuine outside of the show. Besid<s we have a
horrid suspicion that we have somewhere beard
that she is a man.
Marie Brizard!
Travellers and persons of feeble constitu-
tion take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Just as great Gladstone nobly stiives
To meet o d Ireland’s needs,
So Summerfleld to meet our wants
Displays tii winter tweeds.*
The Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-
place and George street, is unapproachable for
cheapness, combined with good quality. The
motto is-Smalt profits and quick returns.*
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sate and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastelully decorated with
flag and floral, decorations, 6034 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
If you are weak and sleepless try Wolfe’s
ochnai ps.
SKIN BEAUTIFIER.
To keep the pores open, the oil glands and tubes
active, and thus furnish an outlet for impurities
in the perrpiration and blood which cause humili-
ating blotches, blackheads, and minor skin blem-
ishes; to cleanse, whiten, and beautify the skin, re-
move tan, freckles, sunburn, and oily matter; to
keep the hands soft, white, and free from chans
and roughness, prevent contagious ekin and scalp-
diseases, and to provide an exquisite skin beauti-
ner and toilet hath and nursery sanative, redolent
with delicious tlower odours and cuticura healing
balsams, use the Cuticura Foap. Indorsed bv
physicians and ohemis's as absolutely pure ard
highly medicinal. Saks 1881 and 1882, 1,100,C00
cakes.
Persons whose occupations are unhealthy
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
E
VKKYBODY )
SHOULD USB f
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
nLiOxxifc
IT 18 MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
In A Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is YERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED YERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI G-corse-street, Sydney.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. xh9 Prince of Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
K
Agents for New South Wales :
H./.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MAFBARET STREET, BYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURE lIS of
□PVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fco.
Bra^, s and Beil Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithing;
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Beil-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FHJBH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER-WASTE
PRE VENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cow/s, Gas F/res, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
80M ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 BSacquarle Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application.
sdf
7^
&
£
v
s
US
OOT
<§£ 'Q.
■ Shoe Bazaar
<sSZB4 George £ t
IcUe. Pen /e cutSL- /farcy urL SYDNEY
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals;
One Bottle Of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ancl fat producing
elemen ts. —Liebeg. ’ ’
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd fl sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, Ac.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
:
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Cent. oj. nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep m any climate.
A few sooonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in. the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIE., LONDON.


A PLEABANT ALTERNATIVE.
SWELL: “HERE, BOY. GIMME A PENN’ORTH OF LIES.”
ARAB: “WHICH’LL YE HAYE-THE ‘GLOBE’ OR THE ‘NOOZE’?”
Wolfe's Schnapps tranquilizes the nervous
system.
For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and braio and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Bitters (American Co.’s) Bead
Don’t be fooled into taking any other but
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood and
liver regulator on earth— American Co.’s Hop
Bitters. Loc k for and read
gsd
\L
fg
Firaaßi
6d. per Bottle.
ARE THE BEST
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers,
Oilmen, &c.
BECAUSE THEY ABE LIQUID!
WILL NOT SPOIL ANYTHING! !
NO BOTHEE-NO MESS ! ! !
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED}, London and Nov/ York.
sdf
I°,so
m
V-' J
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
PEOM
'N 7
Scrofula on Neck-
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseaaes of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the sew Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar!
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura. Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our si-xty-four page
hook, “ How t® Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
| Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, TJ.S.A.
FROSPEGTUS
OF THE
Australian, Loan, Discount & Financial Company,
Limited.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, 1874.
CAPITAL—£IOO,(O Sterling, in 100,000 Shares of £1 each (of which more than half have
already been subscribed for).
CALLS —One Shilling per Share upon application; One Shilling on allotment, and the
balanoe in One Shilling Calls at intervals of one month.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORY.
JOHN KIDD, Esq., M.P. for Camden
J. F. MARTIN, Esq., A.M. Inst., Civil Engineer,
Sydney „ , . „ .
JOHN H. NATHAN, Esq., Merchant, Sydney
P. J. FARRELL, Esq., Merchant, Sydney
G B. THOMAS. Esq.. Solicitor, Sydney
ARNOLD MATHEY, Esq., Merchant, Hunter-
JOHN VANN, Esq. (Vann, Barrington & Co.), En-
gineers and Ironfounders, Sydney
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, Egq., M.P. for West Sydney
H. P. PA.LSER.~Esq., Merchant, Sydney
Dr. G. H. MONTEITH, F.R.C.8., Sydney
H. C. ROBERTS'. Esq.. Gentleman, Sydney
JOHN SCOTT. Esq., Wholesale Stationer, Sydney
C. 8. GILLETT, Esq. (Gillett Freres, Bordeaux and
Reims). Sydney
A. MURRAY (A. Murray and Co.), Tea Merchants,
Sydney
TEMPORARY OFFICES, 32 SYDNEY ARCADE.
Secretary, pro tem.; R. M. CALLENAN, latte Manager of the Bank of Australasia.
Solicitor: J. M. CUBTI3. Esq., Philip-street. Sydney.
Auditors: Messrs. CHAS. KENT, and G. A. BUCK, Pitt-street.
Bankers; LONDON CHARTERED BANK—Head Office, Sydney.
The Share List will close at an early date, the bulk of Shares having been absorbed. Shares will be
allotted in order of application. . A .. . _ . „ „„ a , . .
Applications for Shares to be addresssed to the temporary office of the Company, 33 Sydney Arcade.
Cheques and Post Office Orders to be crossed to the Company’s Bankers, The London Chartered Bank,
Sydney BUSINESS OP THE COMPANY.
This Company is formed for the purpose of conducting a commercial loan business upon Mercantile
principles by making cash advances and guarantees,*® Merchants, Traders, and private persons, upon
the security of Bills of Lading, Storage and Bond Certificates, Deeds, Shares in BaDks and public Com-
panies, Bills of Sale, Government and Municipal securities, &o.; also discounting Trade Bills and ad-
vances upon any adequate seourity. „ T . „ , . „ . _
The success attending this class of business by all loan Offices and Companies is well known, suffice
to say that investments in a Company of this kind are a certainty, and the Company can secure such
profits as will ensure good, if not large, dividends for its shareholders, without resorting to the spuri-
ous rates charged by private Loan Offices, and in so doing the Directors anticipate that the Company
will be amply compensated by largely increased business.
The Company's advances will only be made by the Directors upon ample and tangible securities of a
commercial character, after proper valuation by the Company’s valuers. They will not act as Pawn-
brokers as it is desirable that the Company should attain such tone as to make it a favourite medium
with commercial men. The advances will also be at short call, usually one to four months, or repay-
able by instalments. . ... . ... „ , .
The Company will also receive money on deposit at current market rates of interest.
By its incorporation, this Company will be enabled to transact business that the Banks cannot en-
tertain, being contrary to their Charters, although of a much safer and more profitable chaarcter, and
this Company will make no advances whatever without ample security and fair profits. In addition
to this they will also transact ordinary banking business for suoh Merchants or Traders who have only
limited or no banking accommodation. .. _ , ~ . , „ ,
It will thus be seen that there is ample scope for the Company’s operations, and, in fact, the
necessity of a respectable company for this class of business has long been recognised in commercial
circles*
It is also desirable to point out that Shares in this Company are not a speculation but an investment
through which surplus funds can bo profitably employed to the best advantage with ample seourity,
so that large or small sums of money can be depended upon to return far larger percentages of profits
than any bank will pay for deposits. In addition to which the Company's stock will no doubt almost
immediately be at a premium, so that money invested in shares will not be locked up, but will be avail-
able whenever required. , ~ _
The Company can also advance money to its members when required upon Shares held by them.
Confidence and secrecy respecting clients’ business being a most important factor, only men of
proved integrity and ability will be employed, and afi, together with the Directors, are pledged to
strictest secrecy respecting clients, so that, business transacted with this Company can be depended
upon not to jeopardise borrower’s credit or position. ,
It being desirable that the Company’s proprietary should include of all classes in the community, no
more than 2000 shares will be issued to any single person, the Calls are also made at Bueh a rate as to
enable this result to be attained. , J ,
A large number of shares having already been applied for, the balance are now offered to the public,
which will be allotted in the order applied for, until the share list is complete.
The General Meetings of the Company will be held half-yearly, when balance-sheets will be sub-
mitted and the dividends declared.
In placing the balance of shares of this Company on the market, the Directors submit with every
confidence that it is equal to aDy now before the public as a safe and profitable investment, suitable for
all classes in the eommunity.
Intending Shareholders will please cut this out and forward to the Offices
of the Company, 33 Sydney Arcade.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
TO THE DIRECTORS OF
THE AUiTRILIAN LOAN. DISCOUNT AND FINANCIAL COMPANY,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Gbntlbmen, <
Herewith phase find enclosed the km of £ : : , being
deposit of One shilling (is.) per Share .on Shares in the
AUSTRALIAN LO aN, DIBCOUNT,, and -FINANCIAL COMPANY,
LIMITED. I request you to allot me thahor aay less number of Shares,
subject to the Company's registered Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion, to which I hereby sub;cribe, and request my name being attached
thereto ; and I agrae to accept the same, and to pay calls thereon, and
request my name being placed upon the Register of Members for the
number of Shares allotted to me.
Name in full
Address
Profession (if any)
Date
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
they may be favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—loo Cases INDIAN CONDIMBNTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various sizes, in
all the well-known brands: Curry Powder, in
tins and bottles ; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry ana Mulligatawney Pattes, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to be addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET.
s§
I§§
m
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHN DANES,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
: .'vr ••
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Bare always In STOCK, for BALI
to the TRADB and WHOLE-
SALE BUYBRB ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GBNBRAL HARO WARM.
GLASS, CHINA,
AJTD
BARTHHNWA B JB,
WXNM3, BEERS, ASTD SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
A gents lot
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G ATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MKLYINand SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.


TRAVELLING BY EXPRESS TRAIN IN N.S.W.
GUARD: "TICKET, SIR.”
ANCIENT PASSENGER: “I GAVE IT TO TOG AT THE FIRST STATION AFTER LEAV-
ING SYDNEY.”
GUARD: “NO. SIR. AT THE FIRST STATION THE ONLY PASSENGER IN YOUR
CARRIAGE WAS A VERY YOUNG MAN WHOSE MOUSTACHE WAS JUST COMING.”
ANCIENT PASSENGER: “ALAS, I AM—THAT IS TO SAY, I WAS THAT YOUNG MAN.
WHICH IS THE NEAREST ROAD TO THE CEMETERY?”
If you are low-spirited take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
eonfldential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
Of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
eotor of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally.
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address3l3 George-street,
second floor.*
Marie Brizardl
Wolfe's Schnapps the great remedy for
dyspepsia.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
It is worth more than riches, for without it
riches cannot he eDjoyed. How maDy people are
without health who might retrain it by ming Dr.
Bell’s Bitters It acts upon the liver, bowels and
kidneys, cleansing and stimulating them to healtby
action. It cures all disorders of these important
organs, purifies the blood and promotes the
general health. Sold by ail druggists.*
Marie Br'zard I
Everybody nowadays drinks Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
WILLIAM FLEMING.
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, BYDNLY
Flemings
RELIABLE
mm.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
. and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
*£■
F"
FLEMING’S
WAGGON3
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Spring's.
WAGGONB,
with Hoods.
WAG GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspect.
v,
AGTTARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschatim and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S, ROfeENTSftL, Pipemakei,
1 Little Collins-street, Hast, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on appl'cation
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION!
i r ]
MONTSEEEAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Gr
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES
AND CLEANED
REPAIRED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY,
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1678; CALCUTTA, 1881, _
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING FLOWERS
JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson's renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
nnd other well-known Perfumes nr? un-
cqunlled lor their delightful nnd lasting odour
ATKINSON'S OMENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying, and
preserving the Teeili and Gums.
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers—
J & E ATKINSON,
21, Oi.d Bond Street, London,
k Trade Mark—“ White Hose” on“ Golden g
i.ye." A
""\TERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
J3I STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address —“Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
ORGANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
“ SMITH.”
BRUCE ft MASSEY,
FIB, Dim, MUSIC.
197 Piit-st , Sydney.
I££3ESHAN' , S
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mHIS Hotel Is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway. &o
JL Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
The mofit Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
SAtiC©
Ufl i" perrlNS
j
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCES2ERSHIRE
SAUCE -which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
iAsk for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, frc., &nc.; and by Gr ocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
gsd
The "LOUIS’*
1 VELVETEEN. '
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
I Every yard of genuine bears
(the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom wiM
send patterns
post free on |
application. '
m
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
i
*****
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
MMMIMCO.
£7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.-
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OB COUNTRY USB.
THE 01D ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY.
A»
LOWEST PRICES.
WHIUIB CO
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
%M~ EYBK7 YEHICLB GFABANTEEp


AT THE MUSEUM.
MUSICAL YOUNG MAN MEDITATIVELY: "WHAT RUM-LOOKING ANIMALS THERE
WAS THOSE TIMES!”
Renovate your failing frames with Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Dear love sweet sings the evening breeze,
(Still Summei field is sellinar,)
And whispers to the trembling trees ,
(Suits in their fl; excelling.)
A gentle peace pervades the grove,
(Those suits you ought to try them!)
The very song-birds sing of love.
(I’o see them is to buy them.)
Dear love, your eyes are stars to me,
Th» ir shade of blue the deepest
(Just go to Summerfield for pants.
It you would get the cheapest.)
Marie Brizard!
Marie Brizardl
I prefer Wolfe’s Schnapps to Brandy or Whisky
—lt is a more wholesome spirit.
Many ladies are reluctant about buying
the best of crockery because of the alleged care-
lessness of their helps, and not a few Sydney
ladies insist on their best glass and china being
washed ia their presence in the dining-room.
Some very beautiful sets for banquets, tea, dinner
or socialities are now to be had at Messrs. Bray
Bros , the renowned earthenware and china im-
porters, 403 and 404 George-street.*
Wolfe's Schnapps cannot be approached
for its ila vor and purity of spirit.
B
OBERT BUTCHER 6 CO.
(Late William Lour),
mgf- WINB AND SPIRIT MERCHANT
634 GEORGE PTRERT,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, BYDNIT
Ootmtnry Order* receive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
%
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED ,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsS EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
aDd UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on Bums from £1 to £6O in the Sayings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Narrow Escape.
** * Rochester, June 1, 1882. “Ten Years
ago I was attached wirh the most Intense and
deatnly paiES in my back and —Kidney*
“ Extending to the end of my toes and to
my brain !
“ Which made me delirious !
“From agony ! ! ! !
“ It took three men to hold me on my bed
at times !
“ The Doctors tried in vain to relieve me,
but to no purpose.
Morphine and other opiates !
“Had no effect!
“ After two months I was given up to
die ! !! !
“ When my wife
heard a neighbour tell what Hop Bitters had
done for her . she at once got and gave me
some. The first dose eased my brain and
seemed to go hunting through my system
for the pain.
The second dose eased me so much that I slept
two hours Something I had not done for two
months. Before I bad used five bottles, I was well
and at work as hard as any man couid, for over
three weeks; but I worked too hard for my
strength, and taken a hard cold, I was taken with
the most acute and painful rheumatism all through
my system that was ever known.
“ I called the doctors again, and after severs,
weeks they left me a cripple on crutches for life!
as they said. I met a friend and told him my case,
and he said Hop Bitters had cured him and would
cure me. I poohed at him, but he was so earnest
1 was induced to use them again.
In less than four weeks I threw away my crutches
and went to work lightly and kept on using the
bitters for five weeks, until I became as well as
any man liviog, and have been so for six years
sicca.
It has also cured my wife, who had been
sick for 3 ears; and has kept her and my
children well and healthy with from two to
three bottles a year. There is no need to be
sick at all it ti ese bitters are used.
J. J. Berk, Ex-Supervisor.
“That poor invalid wife, Sister, Mother,
“ Or daughter ! ! ! !
“ Can be made the picture of health !
•‘with a few bottles of Hop Bitters!
“ Will you let them suffer!!!!”
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands cut
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else indict him
forthelraud and sue him lor damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in Every Souse.
BE
i
k
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS..
FLEAS. FU ES. BEETLES. MOS&UITOES.
COCKROACHES veRA* AND IS
AT TH E SAMETIMEQUItE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTHERS
ANIMALS
#
y
fflqi
FELTON-GRIMWADEV.C?
-MELBOURNE
‘Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
<v
PATENT
LLS
PI
fly
3
wfc
(§>
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEBCHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If token according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” arid a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., fhese
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution'.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
tes, Lmi Eros., S Co.,
39 CA9TLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING BOOMS,
At the Exceeding Low Price of *5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER BUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
. BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSOIT BROS., & GO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, See., See., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
fg
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-stroot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
Of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT BYBTRM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed. 1 !
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
*56 George-street, Sydney.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
OK non VOLUMES New and Secondhand
Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
.. Country Orders promptly attended to.
y/yriLLiAH bullard’soreat sale
„ vji XViJaA 00] uja Qp
. MUSJA STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Mbsio,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
J apanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 Der cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m- sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, SoDgs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
V orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &3.; and a ehoice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES, Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
and Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBaGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
M 2 OKOKGE STREET.


"PUTTING IT STRAIGHT.”
MR. CANDID: “WILL YOU BE SO FOOLISH AS TO LEND ME FIVE SHILLINGS?”
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps is the remedy “ par excel-
lence” for kidney diseases, indigestion and debility
Some take their pleasure o'er their pipe,
Bonn love the wine-oup’s ruddy glow;
But all who’d highest joys partake.
Earth’s very chiefest joy would know,
Should see the champion cutter wiel i
The shears for Messrs. Summerfleld.*
Wolfe's Schnapps an unequalled specific
for diseases of the stomach and bowels.
Marie Brizard I
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps is superior to brandy or
whisky.
Love is the greatest of human affections
and ia frequently the sequence of friendship, and
the sequence of Love is matrimony, and the ac-
companiment of matrimony is home-making’, and
home-making is a«sisted by Bray Bros., the earth-
enware, china and glass people, whose goods
ornament many bright and happy homes in the
colony. 7 heir address is four hundred and two
and four hundred and four George-street.*
Marie Briznrdl
'’R© jeWood
:r;
fcgg
-r i= 4^
£
.J? *£ * /#H\. '
mm
*?;■ v; -
mill
? ? ti') 4?aWS^-
vj„-w ■
gp
!i!l/AMI
irti
i
s».t
Mmmm
WL/C, '. rs
\
-, i r~.
W
iWtflji™
ssssa&iiw*-
ul
V.
M 1
Rtt ■•
E*2i«
§ys
iiMIS
»
iSMi
Jar
5^5
k:
. ©f 0
x v
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING AR ADE,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)
4]TgßjeX
DecoXAtiopj
‘JiVfyKHWg
PAUL LIEBE'
UNLIKE OTHERS,
DOES NOT
0*
i *
fO f
»ROM
FElchemists
INI0&200Z BOT?
WHOLESALE AGENT
m
•a
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR, OIL pre
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and car
now be also had in a golden colour, which if
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a mos
cooling, healiDg, and refreshing wash for the face
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from an
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperse
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRI
produces immediately a perfect change in red o
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy anc
permanent brown or black, which colour neithei
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. pei
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co , Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of Bpurious and worthless Imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Keclfern.
Linen O-loss
, s
The Great Liver Remedy,
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Eerience. They overcome the worst form ct
'iseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GE :RGE STREET.
MARSHAL'S
i
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—" TONIC NERVINE.”
A BAJTJS, CERTAIN, & SPEED Y UURRtor Nei-
YjL vous and Q eneral Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
kppetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidnej
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power
fcc. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL'S* TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives rigour t» the whoie system.
Price, ts Sa., or 186 s. a case. Sold everywhere
Proprietor*. MARSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemists, 104 6 Marti et-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a eountry in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
oines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use In
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label en the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 633 Oxford-
Street, London, they are spurious.
WATCH
TJIE KIEYKYS.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow :
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Hr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are Variable appetite ;
famt, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food ; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-livingand rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia •
also bad air, rapid eating, &c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst case by regulating -the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
0
BUTCHER, FEHON it CO., SIDNEY
Agents FOB
New South Wales & Queensland,
SsJSeeiaw
sri
i
kssencegfufe:
re only infallible remedy for
y^EßyoifsJjEßiLijYT
THERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early Indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years ot suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally bocomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So>calle<l
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Entoylnff Lila.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating ail the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City aod suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to aDy part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S
tH??J LA ,Iv NT positively cured by MUJI/TON’3
J ILLS, We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we prove what we say. There are no failures and ns
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
dlt,?^ IOUSNESS » Prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
I EPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
ul^?^l LIVBE, ’ regula te the BOWELS, and FURIFY
rHE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
they are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I»rlce la. 3d.
C. E MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,


Political
Points
Last week’s issue of the N.S.'W. Hansard
contained 165 pages. Jawbone Neild’s speech
covers only 29 of theße.
It is ;jast 12 months since that Bega editor
so grossly libelled Judge M'Farland, and yet there
Ins been no criminal prosecution. Truly Judge
M'Farland is a long-suffering and merciful man.
The members of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council wanted to have a daily Hansabd, so that
their speeches may be published. They may get
the speeches printed, but nothing short of penal
laws would make people read them.
So the Stamp Act has been mangled and
perhaps strangled by the N.S.W. Council. There
will be no liberal legislation in the colony till the
noary old Tory fossils who form the majority
there are prevented by dismissal from working
further mischief.
The Hon. A. Campbell, that fine old
crusted N.S.W. Conservative, sarcastically asks if
wealthy men should be taxed per capitum— by
the head. No, Mr. Campbell, certainly not. If
that were the case it wou'd be impossible to tax
the Legislative Council.
Edward J. H. Knapp, who likes to see
himself in print, advocates in the Sydney D.T.that
taxes should be put on “the five B’s, ’ which he
defines as “Burgundy, brandy, beer, ’bacca, and
bobea.” Edward, dear boy, it is not the “bees’
that should be taxed—it is the “ drones.”
The Brisbane Courier thus gently puis
great truth: “ In obedience to the great law of th°
expansion of the white races, Anglo-Saxons hav
taken possession of this continent, j ust as they
did that of America.” And yet when any other
white raee wants to expand besides ourselves,
what a row the Courier does make.
Sir Henry Parises has been well received
in Gloucester, the electorate of the magnificent R.
Hoddle D. White. A* Sir Henry is not by aDy
means certain of St. Leonards at next election,
and considering the uncertainty of Mr. White s
return to the colony, the new-born interest of the
Opposition leader in the electorate is not without
some political significance.
“ The Native Press,” says a London paper,
“areinstituting comparisons between India and
Ireland. They express warm sympathy with Home
Rule, and watch with keen interest the struggle
now pending in Westminster. That is natural
enough, as like likes like all the world over.”
This is about the highest compliment we have yet
seen paid to these Asiatics.
The Age says “it is rumoured that in the
approaching elections Mr. Gladstone will oppose
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain at Birmingham.” We
won’t do "our own correspond ant” the injustice
of imagining that he cabled such bosh. We can
guess the source of inspiration of that rumour.
David Syme got it from the office-boy, and the
office-boy got it from an active imagination, over-
heated by hardbake.
The North Queensland Separation petition,
bearing 10,066 signatures, was presented to the
Governor of Queensland last week—it and the de-
putation occupying a four-in-hand drag and sun-
dry cabs. His Excellency had his soft pedal down
and made a dreary joke about the casket contain-
ing the statutory copy of the petition. “ Casket,”
he said, ‘‘that’s the Yankee word for coffin. I
hope you are going to bury it. I should give it
another name.”
A London paper says that such language
as that of Premier Gillies (who declared that,
should the Imperial Government allow the New
Hebrides to he taken, “ Australia will assuredly
take them baokwben able”; has never before been
addressed, save possibly in a secret despatch, by
a colony to the Imperial Government; but, adds
our contemporary, there can be no doubt that it
represents public opinion in Australia!” If our
contemporary only knew I
Jawbone Neild, M.P., in the course of his
recent nine-hours’ blather in the N.bW. Assembly,
related an anecdote concerning an execution in
America, where a man ascended the scaffold and
harangued the crowd. Mr. Melville, M.L.A., who
is an undertaker, suggested that perhaps Mr.
Neild was the culprit. Mr. Neild replied that his
profession, at all events, did not take him to such
occurrences, as did that of the hon. member,
whereupon Mr. Melville claimed the protection of
1 he Speaker.
There are some N.B.W. M’s.L A. who never
open their mouths in the House. L?t no one run
away with the idea that tbes-e gentry cant talk.
They can talk, and talk the most infernal rubbish,
too. They get into a tram-car, and shout at each
other over the seats about what they did in the
’Ouee, wbat they are going to do, what a jackass
to and so is, how they put him right, what they
object to in the Bill, &0., until the other pas-
sengers, with scowling brows, and fire in their
eyes, and cursing horr.bly in undertones, get out
a street or two from their usual stopping-place.
Professor Smith—his front name is Goldwin
—thinks Mr. Gladstone is all wrong about the
Irish Question. “Let Parliament,” he says, “im-
pose silence on political revolution until the
economical question has been settled, and the
hungry begin to be fed; then the flame of poli-
tical cisaffactlon will expire.” Tne Professor
evidently Knows all about it, a"d th 9 great here-
ditary intellect, of the smith family shines out in
these words. Expressions of opinion from other
eminent Smiths are invited in relation to the
above subject.
London Spectatob describes 7journalists
ss being “ irresponsible word-spinners, seldom
independent cf concealed capitalists, and never
independent of monetary favour of a news-seek-
ing class,” who “ are compelled by the conditions
of their trade to rcream out immature judgments
formed without time for retlection or even inves-
tigation of the facts.” Having read the apotheosis
of Jawbone Neild in the second leader in last Fri-
day’s issue of the Sydney D T., we are inclined to
believe that the defleition has a local application.
Toe fellow who wrote it couldn’t have been in
bed for 36 hours.
Advertisement from the Belfast (Ireland)
Newsletter of May 13:—“Rifles. Tenders re-
quired for 20,100 Sniders in good order, with
bayonets or swords, to be delivered, carriage paid,
on or before June 1, in lots, at certain stations on
the Northern Counties Railway, as may be re-
quired by purchaser. Address, Vigilance Com-
mittee, 8335, office of this paper. Wanted a few
men thoroughly competent to instruct in military
drill. The drill-instructors must not be in receipt
of pensions from the Government.” No wonder
we now learn by cable that two of the northern
counties have been “proclaimed.”
There is something curious about the
heading, "Religious Riot in Belfast,” which is
g( log the rounds in the colonial papers. The dif-
nculty was really between the patriots and tbe so-
called loyalists, but, as one party was mainly
Roman Catholic and the other Presbyterian, each
Bemi-reiigious journal likes to represent its own
crowd a« a body of Christian warriors wielding
sacred clubs and apostolic bed-posts in a noble
cause. But the same people would kick consider-
ably if they read about a “ Baptist murder in
Sydney,” a "Presbyterian burglary at Sand-
hurst,” or even a case of “ Episcopal wife-beat-
ing,” or a “ Brutal Primitive Methodist assault.”
The Victorian Government has made a
small concession to the principle of Land Na-
tionalisation. Last week Premier Gillies gave a
definite promise that no more of the valuable
lowlands on either side of the Yarra, near Mel-
bourne, shall be filched away from the people.
Many are the unholy j ibs that have been perpe-
trated in connection with these same lands The
ee-simple has been relinquished in many cases,
and long leases have beep granted on terms which
are best described as wicked. Just at the moment,
however, a little breezs of nationalisation senti-
ment is sweeping over Victoria, and the political
atmosphere is somewhat sweetened in conse-
quence.
It is rumoured that the relations between
the permanent head of the N.B.W. Lands Depart-
ment and at least one of the chairmen of the local
Land Boards have become strained to such an ex-
tent that a rupture is almost inevitable. The proces s
of decentralisation ia th 9 administration of the
Department, which was one of the main oejeotsof
the new Act, is not only opposed by the visinertiae
of the whole race of Tlte Barnacles of the Depart-
ment, as might have been expected, but is also
hampered by the severe check immediately and
ruthlessly placed by the powers that be, upon
any independent aotion whatever initiated by the
Land Boards. The consequence of all this, In the
first place, is galliag irritation which is likely to
find its ultimate vent in Parliament.
Sir Henry Parkes visited Croke, N.S.W.,
last week, and the event is remarkable inasmuch
that it was the only place called at during the
“grand tour” where no address was presented by
A CAUTIOUS ACCEPTANCE.
Mr k
Sh\ e.—
- WomV come info ita^air&jw
•4 <vwdL ci.l a (LUtl* kMg diar?
W.. Tt'o ; 3lhink viol'. *
J rnsk _/Ou- yuow-tA, Jt'ir awfui&y fcTuSon*!
7Vlofhj2.r KclS omJ' , jO-IIxC-V IS uJjsI'GATS
Yiri I k
l-je l-n tollx fad" *? ..,*...; ,
yks - . & oik fax■ n
<sJk.c/rv 3-t( ccrmi m a
the principal undertaker on behalf of the inhabi-
tants to the veteran politician “ who landed in
sixpence with Sydney in his pocket.” Far-seeing
Crokers 1 They dreaded the prospect of an
‘‘address in reply.” And this reminds us. One
frosty morniDg in June, a ‘‘sultry” (you mean
close-ED.) politician, well-known in rural circles,
arrived at Cabbage Top in the full glory of a coach
and four, borrowed you may be sure. He was pre-
sented shortly after with an address, which ran
something like this:—‘‘John Jones, Excelsior
Boarding House. Beds, 61. Meals at all hours,
same price.”
This is the tone adopted by Vanity Fair,
the London high-Tory organ:—“So far as I can
see, the time has come to stop talking on this Irish
question. If the Ulster men are to be handed over
to Ford and Egan, if they are to be forced to fl fht
for their skins like rats in a pit, then any tble-
bodied Englishman is a coward if be stands by to
see the crime committed. When Garibaldi’s piracy
was carried out, our volunteers were applauded as
they left for Italy: surely the cause of the Ulster
men—of our own flssh and blood—is more to us
than the cause of Sicilians and Neapolitans. Eng-
land is still worth living in; but so sure as tne
American-Irish reprobates are allowed to plant
themselves in power on our very coasts, so sure
will England become a name of contempt. We
cannot, we must not, permit the crime.”
It will be interesting to note whether
Government will appoint any one to the vacancy
in the N S W. court of the I. and C. Exhibition.
If they don’t, it will be taken as an acknowledg-
ment that toe place was created for the man who
has just vacated it—which is true. It was the
opening through which he was enabled to main-
tain his claim on the N.B.W. money-bag. If they
appoint someone, then will the people cry out
with a loud voice “Jobbery! ” which also will be
true. Do any of our disinterested and partially-
fossilised statesmen long for a nook In West-
minster Abbey ? Now is their time. The billet is
an easy one and the climate deadly. And there
are many N.B.W. politicians whom we would
wiliiDgly send upon the single condition that they
never, under any pretext whatever, ventured to
return.
Mr. William Clarke, M.L.A., has dragged
the shirt of hypocritical seoresy off a new griev-
ance by drawing the attention of the N.B.W.
Assembly to certain R.C. priests who forbid the
children of their congregations to learn history in
the public schools. The member for Orange is a
good fast colour, warranted to wash, and he does
not belong to the new order of men who regard
history as a luxury, which a child may study if so
inclined, after it has learned to read and write.
For our part, we have always been inclined to
regard this branch as rather a lifeless part of
education, and we do not care much for books
which tell how many martyrs were roasted on the
red-hot stoves of antiquity, and virtuous Kings
prodded with spears whiohlay so heavily on their
stomachs that they died before the early English
ooroner could arrive. No doubt there is a moral
le son to be learned from the last words of some-
body who pissed away on the tented field with
virtuous sentiments in his mouth, and a cannon-ball
in his Intestines, but this is hardly education.
And we are oredibly informed that there are good
and great men in Australia who never heard of
Asshurbanipal, and who do not know for certain
whether Ptolemy Physoon was a Choctaw chief or
a distinguished Turkish general. Moreover, his-
tory is increasing at such an alarming extent that
no one can keep pace with it. We are constantly
compelled to drop out past saints to make room
for present tinnei s, and perhaps it might simplify
matters a great deal to drop the whole lot so far
as our schools are concerned. We attended his-
torical lectures ourselves once, it is true,
and we still remember their thrilling in-
terast; the fall of an elephant could have been
heard distinctly in the remotest part of the room
as we hung on the speaker’s words, but, all the
same, life seems too short for history, and we don’t
want to hang there again.
Mr. Gillies’ famous New Hebrides despatch
is still being discuessd in England, and is seem-
ingly creating a panic among that small-minded
class who “ don't want to fight,”and have resolved
not to shed blood for the purpose of prigging a
tiny archipelago that is of no mortal value to
anybody. The last sentenoe of this historic docu-
ment is the chief cause of excitement, for it
shows that Duncan is organising himself and is
already drawn up in battle array. It is as follows:
‘‘Should English Government give way or allow
to betaken New Hebrides to-day, Australia will
assuredly take them back when able.” Regarded
as ciblegraphtc poetry this is not bad. ‘‘Give
way ” and “ to-day ” make a very good rhyme, and
the rest of the stuff is chorus, while any rough-
ness in the metre may be exoused when we recol-
lect that tho verses have been transmitted some
13,000 miles beneath the sad sea waves, and the
gloss of fancy has been rubbed off and stuck to
the wires But regarded as a specimen of common
sense the athlete who backs himself to eat 1000
nork nies in 1000 hours is far ahead of Mr. G'llies.
Toe Victorian Premier probably forgets that the
world, accordingto Proctor, has! only 60,000,000 year 3
to la3t, and under these depressing circumstances
it i 3 not advisable to make appointments so far
ahead. Moreover, other countries will be growing
up at the same time as Australia, and it is possible
by the time these colonies are prepared to “ take
back" the New Hebrides, Brown V.,lthe new Chris-
tian emperor of Cochin Chins, or Te Wheoro of
New Zm'and, just returned from sketching the
ruins of London, will also put in a claim and go in
for promoting ruoksbuns.
DR. T. WARAKER, LLD.
CONVINCED.
The “Hull News” says:-The following is re-
markable proof of the wonderful powers of an
astonishing new remedy:—Henry Coates, of 11,
Cheatham-place, Adelaidc-street, in the borough
of Kingston-upon-Huli, railway who had
been a terrible sufferer for many years from
rheumatism in its worst forms, having read of it,
determined upon a trial, which has been attended
with the most extraordinary results; and being
anxious that his experience should be fanown to
other sufferers, he determined to bring it forward
in such a manner as to leave no possible doubt of
its reliability. So he appeared before Mr. E.
Singleton, a commissioner to administer oaths in
the Supreme Court of Judicature in England, and
made oaths as follows:-He sllirmed that he had
been totally unable to work for a long time, and
had teen confined to his bed for a considerable
period; that he had
TRIBD VARIOUS DOCTORS
and many remedies, but that he grew worse instead
of better; that at that time his joints were soswol-
len that he c ould not wear boots, and two crutches
were harily sufficient to support him. After hav-
ing heard of St Jacobs Oil in the manner before
stated, he purchased a bottle. In twelve hours he
found relief, and persevering in its use, he is now
cured of rheumatism, works daily, and can not
only walk with ease without a stick, but cm run:
he enthusiastically recommends this great remedy
to anyone suffering from any form of rheumatism f
as it has not only done wonders for him, but many
of his friends.” Referring to the foregoing,
Dr. T. WAR AKER, LL.D.,
Intercollegiate Law Lecturer at Cambrid ?e
University, writes from his residence, 5 Soroops
Terrace, Cambridge : “ I have much pleasure
in stating that, having been convinced from
well authenticated oases within my personal
knowledge of the great success which has attended
the employment of Jacobs Oil in cases of rheu-
matism and neuralgia, I have recommended it to
several friends, and it has been used in my house
for these affections with very benefical results.”
The “WHITEHALL REVIEW”
contains the following, relative to a discovery
of American origin, whioh is just now caus-
ing considerable stir throughout Great Britain:
—“The same has such a direct bearing
upon human happiness that it has been
made the subject of considerable comment
and investigation on the part of various news-
papers. As it is claimed that by the discovery in
question an absolute specific has been found
for the cure of certain most distressing ailments
with which the human family is afflicted, and
which have thus baffl3d medical skill, and as these
diseases, In their most aggravated forms, are very
prevalent, a representative of this journal was
commissioned to investigate the remedy by
personal interview with the parties who oould
speak from actual experience. From the results
as given below, it may well be claimed that the
general adoption of this remarkable remedial
agent will cause a revolution in the treatment of
these painful oomplaints.
“ The first gentleman interviewed was
Mr. WILLIAM HOWES,
the well-known civil engineer, No. 68, Red
Lion-street, High Holburn, London, who, it
was learned, had made some personal ex-
periments with the preparation in question. Mr.
Howes stated that for over 20 years he had been
constantly and severely s fflloted with rheumatism.
At times his hands had been swollen to twice their
natural size. Again, his joints beoame so stiff and
painful that he ould not walk, and his feet so
sore that he oould not bear his weight on them.
He had at different times tried physicians, and
many remedies which had been recommended to
him as a cure for his complaints. But he derived
no benefit whatever. An acquaintance, who had
himself been cured of a severe rheumatiG trouble,
gave him a bottle of this new discovery, whioh he
applied once, with such unexpected and marked
benefit that he procured another, which, to use
his own language, ‘settled the business,’ by
removing the pain which he had not been free
from for 20 years. Mr. Howes said that had he not
used Bt. Jacob’s Oil-the remedy referred to—he
would now be in bed, instead of attending to his
businecs. He added, ‘lts effects were simply
magioal. It produced a complete cure. I will also
add that numerous friends and acquaintances,
suffering from rheumatic and neuralgic aff eotions,
to whom I recommend the oil, speak of it as won-
derful. It seems to effect a cure in every ca3e.’
“ The name of
Mr. C. H. PALMER,
Secretary of the Conservative Defence As-
sociation, and Oversear of the District of
Islington, having been mentioned to the por-
ter, this gentleman’s opinion was sought
and cheerfully given in the following lan-
guage : ‘For a long time I have been a great
sufferer from neuralgia in my face and head, and
rheumatism in my limbs,’ remarked Mr. Palmer,
‘ After trying various remedies without obtaining
relief, and having learned of the signal benefit
which several friends who had been suffering from
severe rheumatism derived from the oil, I pro-
cured a bottle, the use of which completely re-
moved every trace of pain. I do not hesitate to
recommend it as a mcst valuable discovery.’
Having seen a card in an Australian paper from
the cnampion sculler,
EDWARD HANLAN
(whose matchUsj performances in Eogland and
America won him tne title of “Wizard of tbeOar' )■
in which he strongly indorses this remedy as un-
equalled for athletes In training, and for speedily
curing pains, bruises, and other bodily pains,
several members of the London Athletic Cmb
were interviewed—among them Messrs. Wade and
Painter—and it was learned that tney also had re-
cently used the oii for such complaints, with
most happy results.
“It may be added that in its current number the
MAGAZINE of PHARMA CF, CHEMISTRF, and
MEDICINE
devotes corsiberable space to a disoussion
on the extraordinary power of St. Jacob s Oil,
and cites some attonisuing cures
“It appears, also that this remedy received no
less than six gold medals during the past year
at International and other Expositions One or
these was awarded at Calcutta, nnotner at tne
great Southern Eihibition in the United States.


PI Ma*
fayoTsiite &*&&-
with great care from fc&f
nvg Jt? great care xrom tar
m On t? celebrated firm of
Dublin, and thereto’e
To v 1 "abbs, and therefo’
"■ Bol e Agents.
»4ksto n h ;
»<tt
invite inspection
liiiViS.'. and”Rnv v ? NT STOCK of
Tfi^ L OTHT^<? Yv “STANDARD”
■*«! I)E ' n ° W open TOR THE
own sets of pat-
k? o ?-j!-sa
fBCOATS, extra
4"ljL 001 °r Italian Cloth, 355,
in Meltons,
§» top,* Cy Worsteds, 27a (id, 35a,
g[®KCp ATS, LINED
fejs&h ? P f4‘v C T f UITS . specially
A® W°r gted * ft eoy Mixtures, Scotch
SQi ’ 85 ' J « 43a . 45s > 50s -
ffiif” Sao Cq^ 6 ?. o ® application.
fet Swa f**sS.».«.
IlfeSlv/ COT &ad FINI SHED, for
m riQUE '
*“ T> a > ‘ ’torl'ENNlSor LOUNGE,
a D( j u **«NiSor LOUNG
SAI
fell Bos to i fi'i H Felt ’ Celtic 8
il^ e^® wl e I GD^AR COA - TS out ex
i,K oljßllP’fc ()np THO
.tfkfA, So,urthg, ii 01’ well ventilated,
BBs wl'x Taney, Twee
COAT. YE]
i°?<k N, LIQ ETEST coat
SVZ mSde ° f good stroag
Sm&, in all si zes
■tIS, in pretty
SfTfejj.Jhe law d n u r 5 b Sh ellB,
“■ Now Br
%»SA^ R ’™ K S,«i Bta
PEAPES and S'
jOeorge-stree
1
Üb,
sdf
HAUTHAWAY’S
OUI HELUBLE '
Peerless
J necessity in evei
> It blacks ai
Polishes Ladies’ ar
•fcUdre-n's Boot
f e L s - Rubbers a?
withci
S h!ng - A,wa *
Sives satisfaction.
13 conceded to fc
CO
z
CO 13
- <
s i
tx J
<r
:.-
ostoa.
- •••‘V,
! g J atters
b
MEV
E,
e and
'•WTH l|
GUINNESS’ EXTRA BTOTJT.
FIBST QUALITY.
'RfSEStff?.
Oft
V,
ifm
a *ts
um
ay^si
m
mmm
SLllli
m
mm
BISS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON $c CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
80LE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
nsm
MB
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
%3T THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing mucb
faster than expert penmen, and condensing mattes
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and ail men of business should use the
type-writer, and save "mu eh valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO..
410 Kent-street.
REMINGTON
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 18«9.
WCORPORATED by ACT OY PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital. *300,008
Reserve Fund ....*165,000
Duuoyobs:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chains an.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.O.
George 8. Oaird, Esq
i.Philir ~
, MJj.O.
Auditors :
Ja*. Saroggia, Bag.
H. B. Ooben, Esq.
ftSHBRAIi M4HAOHB:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Bxjkwa*t:
Hector Allen.
Bhawchbs is N*w South Walm :
“layinarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nymran,
Boarke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Bbahch is QuussitASD:
Brisbane.
ifOHDOS Branch : 158 LaadenhallHßrtareet.
Directors:
id ward Chapman, _
Mr Saul Samuel,K.C
Geo. P.
Geo. H.
. BW.
ezander,
Baq.
Managbk : Geo. H. Alexander, Boa.
Lokdok Banrjueis:
rhe National Provincial Bank of Borland
rbia bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
tal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo,
nd other produce shipped to Bnglandfor side.
fo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS,
M.A. Oxon,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
DEbIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that he
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No. 7
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
I Cura Bvory case undertaken.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again ; I mean
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I nave discovered, new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
No. *7 SPUING ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
T
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
HE ONLY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
that makes a Speciality of
Hu&icai InsSrumesifs.
Vitlins. Guitars, Banjos, Futes, Accordions, Con*
ceTtlnas, and Strin gs for all Instruments.
3T Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FOGOHOWSKI’S
K(J hi CAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
705 Keorjce-atreet, Sydney
D 3R. BQY D,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 OASTLEREAGH-ST
(Upstairs).
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
BeiiaoG.P.o,
g
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 3.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Hoffnung & Co.
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE V£RY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts tine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clay ten’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & GO.,
177, 308 and 266 PITT STREET.
rOKIPLETESFT
marshall'bro?
DENTISTS
133 ELI 2 ABETH ST
m
Am
\V
mm?
M
ir.
1 Am
15 V ,9
OS
NEW EXTRACT
OF
SOAP
1
,v N. *
:'r V-
" ' p «rry «. co>
•• v"' \» ■ NF* 1
ftCT«$O? r
V/EW OF HIM :
HbmJT itai'
$ .# <p-
X#
<V* ,vV
#
s
-
O o
«* Jr
///A " v
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
wfl
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasola re-lined an if mad*
equal to New, at
J. BVLUVAV’B
841 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Kspaire neatly «xo-
SltMi
6. B. BSODIKI, Bunmaker,
BEGS to announce to bis.patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements 'in
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co„ Joseph Lang and Bon, Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Go., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments fpr the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &o, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Suppliis in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goo4s will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 ficorgc-st., Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. 8®” Price List on application
COMMERCIAL
MITTAGONO.
Eirst-claes Accommodation for Commercials
PETEK MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
df
T S BOOTS
SYDNEY
EITHER FOR
PRICE or QUALITY]
Cm
fi V- I
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific) manner
to ensure the best action, ;
FOR UOTHIKTOv
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomai in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
DISPENSING CHEMISTS, ' -
63 Mahket sx., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses .-—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
,BPPS’S
’ GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COC O A
- 111 ■■■■■ ;
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
GOST FHIGL
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRJf.
Jib T. Mints & Co.,
90 PITT STREET, BYDNEYi’NJ.If,
RSfIMMOOP RESTORED
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION,
PREMATURE DECAY &C., has at last di».
covered a simple SELF-CURE, "hich, for the Sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre*
scription which CURED him. Address with' sell,
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affection#.
Medical Establishment, 303, Elizabeth-stifeet,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in A ustralia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examination’s passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.
Loudon, 1864; Member of the Royal College or
Surgeons, London, 1869.
-I* '*■'
JlO
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
_ PREPARED ONLY BY <
Thomas Ingham.


THOS. GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAH,
14
B3URKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
j NEABL^V
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, am-
ount's Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 0 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond J
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
664 BEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS. BALLB. PICNICS, AND PAKTIBB A SPECIALITY.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER ANDJDONEECTI
CR'S'rvW SWT* paVRIBRRM SMT wnr*M3 WtH T* ABTl,B =^=S :
was**
FRY’S MALTED GOGO|
J. S. FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lancia
»»
m
SMSSS
£>H. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
STTIDISriETr, IsT-S-W.
ABEGULAE GBADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
! life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
produoing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Eestlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
inanent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, aucl h edicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly <#irech
It ia self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians m regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted, to, and the proved good'
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
gpeedy p~ perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
DOCTOR JT_ O CONNELL,
53 CastlereagU Street (ground floor), Sydney,
BUDCrEB.EE !
BUBGEB
R®* 3 ''
Trade
gdfg
J &*&■
NO MORE FEVER;
The BUDGEREE
destroyer known
aestroyer Bold at
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, BullethHanp^^^^,
Co
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MA
jest*
$0
JSIU BKDJUJBittD ax. ai: mtux**.** *»-*•* ~**,— -- Ml
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDREYp *
Also, at London, Mayenoe, Paris, and Brus 0 ® 1 ' 8 ,
„ t* a I*°*™
l&sqsst stock in the cu
4
s?
o
c
<c
O
&
1
WAR*
TRAOt
w
V:
-O
O.
?/
«
4* o N »f S£°J?
o o
r>f
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD. GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
fT'IHB sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottllngof Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. tho highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
ohdicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of alt the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.— KEIG WIN and
HARBTON, ?ole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
TLLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTcn OEFORE
Copyrighted^
?/cxistache and Whiskers.
Boyd's Heard l'.Uxir did this
find will do it on either hahl
head or hare fare.■ Forres
heavy Moustache in from 2 t<>
-i locel'ti and ncyer-fails, .20,000
. - young virn already wear full
heards, having used l totl})kts. Fo injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Faetxts, ].?. Csl. each, .'s for 3%\ Gel., post paid, sent under
cover, fire front observat . Address, Frank Dougins, Sole Agent,
Box ’7X). <7.1 V~ Sydney. N S\ IT.
fEFOnS AFIt!l
v> ; :
Copyrighted
COOL ALT A WINES,
SILVER MEDAIi BORDEAUX,
OKI.XiASH sad BODEGA.
354 Qeoxge-street
(Beneath i ’alinß’a.)
a
. feet 10 ®
1 *■ nf
PHE highest poin* .
faoturo of
WABANTEBlg,e7/
A. DEBNEJ -<
. ~ ■nrTTXrrT'fi!# °
a
A. jpF
lshunteb ,
8TP^w7V
syp^'
irV
otufactory
and for V»
Clothingr^gSSVpg^
Cttn “°nnodBiAfe<^
qhf’g
LATH BOW-LANDS & LKWIB,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Sitters, and Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only 00/o Medal for i,Erated and Mineral Waters: also,, another Gold Medal for Liqu> urs
