

FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
inn,
•Hie,
,t u„ r
»8d
y the
®itiBeas.
%
Btlj
Ik
?
V
V
n\
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Earnrss,
Specially Importo
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS
WAGGONS,
w I'b Side Springs
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
Wii GONS
and
HARNESS
fer all purposes
Call ar dirspret
t»*
o»
w
m
4
0,0
&
sdf
Tramwa y La no Sals Rooms
tyfioAubxqwL CfyaniStz*
Street
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and GO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OrviHi 6EAH, Brass A HSgkeS-plafail SROP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Fig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, kc.
W Braes and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Worts, Ooppersmithing, Blaolcemithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fit tins’’
of every description.
DOULTQN’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WAT3R-WASTB
PEBVEKTESS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity fires. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust ran
Cowls, Sas Fites, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOH ACCORD WORKS, slMMqwta Mam,Sydney.
Full particulars and prtoe on application.
1
0
gsd
OOT
ot
h
Sho
AAR
V-5
2.
George
£
202 a
PcaZe evncls SYDPJSY
&
ORG-AHS
FOB THE
“smith;
BRUCE & MASSEY,
nun me, b.
mi Piit-sf , Sydney.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
sdf
°od-Wor king and Saw-Mill Machinery.
*1- P. GREGORY arid CO.,
4.
and
Are SOLE AGENTS for &
FAY & CO., CINCINNATI
c ARRy A large STOCK OP THEIR CBLEBRATBD MACHINES.
REQUIBITI for wood- working and SAW-MILLING IN stock.
Bend fer Catalogues and Prise*.
Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
i^NKEE
DOODLE
HkWEE
Oo
Dl
SONBt
son
§Vo
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
CoSlßjk?
T.OT3A CCO
m)R
Ik
, >'^*‘ *oW8 P SfdM]r P K^SM^^ffiSS’
8 ssssTo^aT
more
American Leaf
BSIv. I>rw»nw PViwryinlnw t.r\A fUTifltl’l
Bray XjloliijbLex-
-24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC ST OCR DEALERS.
Complete metoprsphlc Outfit*, In *re»t variety, from #3. Cotaloaruea poat frea.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTQQRAPHV.
HO LB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATH, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies ,
DOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH Sc FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
Tho finest finality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 Geokge-st., Sydney.
S3OH
SIOH


ASK. FOR COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
S,OE
tv7
-...
PROOF
on
gsdf
CHEAPER THAN I EXPORTED
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR r R
ADMIXTURE.
The FACULTY pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Ynnng Children.
Being: absolutely * all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prop .r.-*
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp tonful to a breakfast eup costing loss than one halfpenny
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, beiny it
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling wat- r, and palatable without muk
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Ghrocers, Sec., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., ss. 6d., &c
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SOHWJXTZER & CO., 10 ADAIT-ST" 23 -S'*’, BT#AHD, W.C., I*OSLOTS
AND ALL WHOLES ALE HOUSES.
P. R.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Beits to announce to his town and country friends* that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefor© confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patrenage, which has hitherto been se liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WHISKIES. BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable iu bydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for tW Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous <£3 Cases, containing the following:
: Bottles BRANDY
Bottle JAMAICA RUM
Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY T Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS 1 Battle OLD TOM
1 Bottle SHERRY WISE
TOTAL-18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
S [yen perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rdera payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wme & Spirit Merchant & Importer ,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. R/GG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
6
IRONMONGERS
mm
X
<p
(9
REG?
<*
S>
SPECIALITIES:
Daws’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
Aibo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY. TOOLS.
CSas Cooking; Stoves:— JLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
Bradford-!* washing machines, &0., &c.
. J. !M. IQL.L
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THK BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARPS.
w
k>
Yfirc
M'CARTHY <& CO.,
tobacco 3vrEKGEC^.3sra:s 3
689 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Jt2T Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanua and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N. B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
GFFORD & Hi
1
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street,
(J. A. ROBBRTB. R. J. ALCOCK G. 0. CHALMBRS. R. G. WATKINSJ
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
11, in, ui 11 UHR
Importers of
Hl®? 8 *
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MAOHIH
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
MIRING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPB. COACHBUILDBRB
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. *O.
RO
J:.'
I
r.Mi
YARD. h'AY-S r.R&
r: S_IRON YARD.
"
—"T
BAR, PLATE, SHEET, and HOOP
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC: TTN PLATES ; PIG IKON ana JUUAU ; Oli£.*t:gg» TBUft
BRUBHWARB, FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKP, SHEARING BUPPLIES; BUILD
MQNGERY, ROLLED H GIRDER*, t'OKTABLM, jriAJu-, imd SBMI-FIXED ENGINES. ggAPIgS
and fIUK 40NTAL BOILERS, STEAM and othei PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING.
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMER*', ENGINEERS’ BRASS TO
PATENT ROJUi,#. BHAFTING, QUIOKBILTER. *•.
Sole Agents for PARMER. ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED p 9S’E«£ I ptTLIW S 1
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Prlee Liati and Catalogues furnisied on application
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO
- 64 YORK STB
- HAY AND El
- HARBOUR 8:
STDKTEX
ii
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, „ a „t,nU*
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HAR® uy
London OMo©
86 GRACBOHURUH MBM
“BOOKS” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANG-TTS <fc ROBERTSON-
-113 MARKET STREET, SVRXET. ■
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sen
mail to any part of Australia.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georoe-street.
K. HAMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, anR MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
.Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Honnessy’s * Cognag
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids Cs.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
4s.
3s.
os.
6s.
4 s.
4s.
4s.
Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor's household, Gd. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
rv
&
gs
(b
1*
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MACHINERY/ 1^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
V AT •
LOWEST COST!
CRAKE 5
and
hoisti^
ENGINES*
lawk
MOWERS'
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES,
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEB
SOLE AGENT
0
Sydney;
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne!
22, KING STREET-
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS p
be found in the “ LIGHT ~jtf
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous W e ** y oi
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c *
this book will be sent post free, sealed, 1
penny stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Bydney
T«Bu
Pharmaoy.
nter-street -
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED. ’
STUDY ,
and
HaveyourUmbreUaf uf .
re-covered, and
FarasoJe re-lined 4
equal to N«yvffF , “
J. SULLIVAN
841 George StffrfflisJL
Brickfield HM.&S5*#
lverpool and BatbH' * <jo-.
Liverpool
xade to
tumee. Kapairi "•*’
outed.
Parasol* made to it 1 '


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3—No. 154-New Series.
SATUBDAY, APRIL 24, 1886.
Fades—B4.
Eir Fatrick Jennings as a Financier.
The Bulletin .
BATUKDAY, APRIL 24, 1886.
The taxation proposals of Sir Patrick Jen-
nings, whatever may be their fate, exhibit
an advance from mere opportunism in the
financial affairs of New South Wales to
something which closely approximates
statesmanship. Hitherto the customary
practice has been to estimate the require-
ments for expenditure for the year, and
then to endeavour to obtain a correspond-
ing amount of revenue from whatever
sources seemed likely to yield it with the
minimum of pressure and trouble, and the
least personal unpleasantness to the whole
population. Thus indirect taxation has
usually been chosen as a means of relief
when the public creditors became clamor-
ous, and no Treasurer up to the present has
had sufficient boldness or skill to formulate
a scheme of direct and general taxation
based upon settled principles. While im-
mense areas of the State territory could be
readily converted, by auction sales and
other methods of alienation, into hard cash,
there was but little difficulty, so long as the
demand existed, in providing for expendi-
ture, and if an occasional deficit appeared
this has been usually met by the tolls levied
at the Custom-house. In the Parkbs-
Robertson reign their Treasurer, Mr. James
Watson, submitted some taxation proposals
equally remarkable for their crudeness and
for their signal failure to commend them-
selves to publio approbation ; and during
the Rake’s progress of the Stuart
Ministry, Mr. Dibbs likeswise introduced
some proposals for the im position
of a property tax—but not meeting
an enthusiastically approving House, de-
pended as an alternative upon a bene-
ficent Providence, and afterwards upon
Treasury bills—to be met, apparently, by
the same agency to bridge the awkward gap
whioh has for some months past been
the most prominent feature of New
South Wales Nor was Mr.
Burns permitted to attempt to meet
the difficulty by means of h.s some-
what ingenious but exceedingly imper-
fect scheme. Demoralised by the easily-
managed realisation of State capital
generally misnamed “Land revenue’*
in past years, Ministers seem not to have
troubled themselves to apply fixed princi-
ples to finance, but sought rather for the
easiest and most popular means of obtaining
the desired inoome. But the country and
the House alike have outgrown this finan-
cial opportunism, and at the call of a people
who vish to pay their present debts, and are
willing to submit to permanent impositions
to meet the requirements of the future, Sir
Patrick Jennings, largely, as we should
imagine, assisted by Messrs. Dibbs, Garvan,
and Copeland, has offered a scheme which
is as liberal as any programme acceptable to
the present House could be, and sufficiently
comprehensive to meet the exigencies of the
situation.
v ® °
The most welcome feature in the Jen-
nings taxation proposals is the partial ac-
knowledgment of the Georgian maxim that
“ the land is the source of all wealth,” a fact
which no Treasurer has yet asked his colony
to recognise. The rate of in the £on
the unimproved value of all lands is far below
what, in our opinion, it ought to, and ulti-
mately will, pay; but the tax once estab-
lished may from time to time be increased and
graduated upon a fixed scale. At present
an impost as proposed is all that our legisla-
tors are willing to lay upon the landholders.
Assuming 8 per cent, as a fair annual return
for the use of land, this tax of %d. in the £
will be equal within a very small fraction to
2% per cent, of the income, while the deduc-
tion of Id. in the £ from incomes—whioh may
or may not be the product of
ment of the faculties—is exactly equal to
1 % per cent. Thus, to escape with a levy
equal to that made upon incomes, land
must return not less than 12}£ per cent, of
its capital value yearly. And it is further
proposed that the exemptions shall be up to
£3OO per annum in one case, and to the value
of £lOOO only in the other. Even at 10 per
cent, the land ' limit should, therefore, be
fixed at £3OOO to make the relief by exemp-
tion coincident in the two cases. But it is
notorious that agricultural and pastoral
lands do not as a rule return 8 per cent, on
their capital value, the reason being that
THE LATE MR. RICHARD GOLDSBROUGH.
the unearned increment is so great as to
enable owners to lease or work their
estates for a much less yearly return than
could be obtained from any other in-
vestment not subject to such appreciation
of value. Assuming 5 per cent, to be a fair
annual return from country lands—even a
less figure would more nearly approach the
rent-value of unimproved pastoral areas—
the taxation will equal lOd. in the £ of yearly
value, or 66 per cent, in excess of the rate
levied upon personal incomes. One of two
results will, then, gradually ensue. Either
the country land-owners must use their
estates to better purpose, or must sell them
to those who are able to do so. Whichever
course is adopted, the State must benefit.
Increased labour must be applied to the
soil if it is to yield larger returns. This may
be illustrated by instancing an estate in
New South Wales for whioh £250,009 has
quite recently been offered, but from which
the owner does not make atthe utmost more
than £6OOO a year. The tax on this property,
if assessed at its value, will be £slB 15s. It is
not likely that the owner will continue to
work on in the present style, when he has to
pay 1-12ih, that is 8% per cent, or Is. Bd. in
the £ of his profits away in direct taxes ;
yet the land, if let or sold in small areas to
men who would expend their labour upon
it, is capable of adding a hundredfold more
than at present to the substantial wealth of
the community. The operation of such a
tax must be especially beneficial as regards
such extensive and but slightly-improved
country estates. Owners of large blocks
cannot work them more cheaply than they
are now doing, and, as more labour must be
employed to secure larger annual profits,
an increased demand for agricultural
workmen, or, better still, peasant pro-
prietors, must necessarily arise. If this
land tax were progressive, as is the
proposed scale of probate duties, it
would, as we believe, be still more in accord-
ance with the true policy of the State. But
this will come. In future, when additional
revenue is required, the Treasurer of the
day will find his easiest, and it may be most
popular, means of increasing the Stateir-
come, to be by the levy of additional duties
from the larger land-holders. For the pre-
sent, the recognition of the liability of the
land-surface which comprises the State for a
share of the cost of Government, marks an
advance in the perception of New Soath
Wales politicians. That this principle has
been acknowledged in other colonies does
not diminish the importance of its recogni-
tion here. New South Wales is notoriously
the most inveterate’y Conservative of the
colonies, and from what has been done in
the past would, appear to be the least likely
to assign taxation burdens to the various
classes, in proportion to the privileges and
advantages they enjoy. Yet the Jennings
proposals seem to have been framed as much
in consonance with justice a$ the tenor of
public opinion would admit.
* * *
There will probably be more opposition
to the motion to impose “ value duties,” as
Sir Patrick calls them, than to any other
part of the programme. The Sydney dailies
have denounced them with an amount of
vigour and harshness apportioned to the
value of the importers’ advertisements in
the same papers. These denunciations
themselves go far to prove the influence
which the importers, favoured by a tariff
framed as though with a single eye to their
advancement, have acquired. There maybe
a grain of truth in the freetraders’ sneer
that “ Victoria is run for the manufac-
turers,” but'it is certainly evident that if
New South Wales is not run in the interest
of the importers no policy could suit them
as a class more exactly than that which has
prevailed during the last decade. As a
natural consequence they have prospered
mightily, and are now so strong that daily
newspapers whioh benefit considerably by
such prosperity publish innumerable and
venomous leaders inveighing against a pro-
posal which would slightly affect the profits
of these important gentlemen, who are
without exception, as they themselves
assert, “freetraders on principle a prin-
ciple which happens to coincide with their
obvious interest. The chief—it would not
be too much to say only—argument used by
the dailies as against the introduction of
ad valorem duties is the assertion that they
would “ demoralise the whole community ’’
by inducing merchants to forge invoices
and commit other frauds against tne Go-
vernment for the purpose of evading th©
imposition. This oft-repeated objection in-
volves one of three corollaries. Either
it is a gross and baseless libel, in which
case it is not worth any considera-
tion whatever ; or else our merchant
princes are a set of scoundrels to
whom forgery is a pastime, and fraud an
every-day amusement—which, if admitted,
proves that our contemporaries are not too
particular in choosing the clients whose
cause they advocate—or, as a third alterna-
tive, we must conclude that these merchants
are men of such lamb-like innocence, and
wavering rectitude, that upon the advent of
temptation they will fall from commercial
grace and become systematic forgers and
adepts at perjury. If this latter view of the
case is correct, we incline to wonder that a
class, as the argument would imply, of
felons upon opportunity, do not find that
temptation and opportunity every day of
their business lives. It is the very irony of
fate that the papers opposing these duties
cannot find any arguments to support their
case without branding as felons—either in
the pr. sent or the future,—the class which
they particularly wish to benefit.
* * *
Sir Patrick Jennings has been particu-
larly anxious to prove, having even gone so
far as to quote Sir Henry Parkes on the
subject, that the ad valorem duties would
not afford protection to our own manufac-
turers. A few extreme freetraders, on the
contrary would stem to fear that an im-
mense impetus will be given to colonial
industry. The truth plainly rests between
the two extremes. The duty will not affect
the production of those articles which
cannot now be made here for within


S per cent, of the price of the imported
goods, nor can it directly affect those manu-
facturers who are now able to undersell the
importer in his our markets; but where
the average prioes of the home-made and
imported articles are within 5 per cent, of
equality, it is manifest that the manufac-
turer will be benefited to the full extent of
the duty if he can already undersell the im-
porter, and to the balance remaining after
the difference under 5 per cent, is sub-
tracted if the importer is now underselling
him. And, as the assistance given to the
manufacturer will be 5 per oent., not on his
capital, but on his turn-over, the advantage
may amount not to 5, but even up to 50 per
cent, on his oapital. It is probably the con-
templation of these faots, which induces a
freetrade press to shriek out as an argument
against the imposition of these duties their
warning that commercial consciences will
not be able to withstand the temptation of
forging invoices and indulging in perjury
on systematic business principles.
a ■ •
Taking the taxation proposals as a whole,
we are not inolined to believe that they will
be submitted to alteration in principle, or
to any substantial amendment in form.
are less thorough than we could desire,
but perhaps as advanced in principle as] any
the;present House would be willing to adopt.
The committee may, perhaps, be wisely per-
suaded to abandon the proposed increase of
stamp duty on bills of exchange, as jthis is
an impost whioh hampers the oourse of trade
without returning sufficient revenue to atone
for the inconvenience, and the income tax
may possibly be advantageously reduced or
the exemption margin modified; but apart
from these alterations it is not easy to
see how the soheme can be substantially
amended, unless it be by increasing the ad
valorem duty and the unimproved-land tax.
At the time of writing there seems every
probability that the present Treasurer will
be enabled to put in practice the proposals
of his first Budget speech, and if unex-
pected defeat should interfere to prevent
this consummation, any future Treasurer
must meet the difficulties of the situation
with proposals differing only from these in
point of method and degree.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Written Reason."
NOT many of the euphemistic names by which
some of our modern institutions are called can
compare in bitter irony with the term “ written
reason ” as applied to some of the brutal old laws
now in force in New South Wales, especially
those relating to slander and libel. Indeed, there
are some which the term “ petrified stupidity ”
would fit like a blister. There is at the present
time, and there has been for the last 14 months
shut up in Darlinghurst Gaol, a young man upon
whose character, life, or good name there is not
one blot or even imputation. We refer to Mr.
Kenna, son of one of Bathurst’s most respected
citizens. Most newspaper readers in the oolony
are acquainted with facts of the case (Fowler
v. Kenna)— how Mr. Kenna on coming of age
charged his agent Fowler with having robbed him
and forging receipts for money never paid—how
Mr. Kenna prosecuted him—how, on two separate
occasions, the Bathurst Benoh committed him for
trial—how, on some inexplicable ground, the Attor-
ney-General refused to proseoute—how Fowler,
relying on his mens conscia recti, or on his past good
fortune, or his " Court influence,” entered an
action for slander Bgainst Kenna on the ground
of certain statements made by him concerning
Fowler’s transactions with the estate—how, in
court, Kenna seemingly proved the truth of these
statements—how the Judge direoted the jury
to find for the plaintiff on the ground
of a technical .error in defendant’s plead-
ings—how the jury brought in a verdict
for one farthing damages, adding a rider that
‘'Mr. Kenna had not spoken falsely or mali-
ciously;” and how the judge certified for costs
amounting to £5OO, rather than pay which Mr.
Kenna went to gaol, where he now lies, while the
man whom a bench of magistrates twioe sent to
trial charged with robbing him has his liberty
without even having to undergo the inconven-
enee of answering the charges brought against
him. Mr. Darley stated in the Upper House not
long sinoe that he did not recollect any other case
of such a miscarriage of justioe. Yet nothing
is done. Can anyone respect the “written
reason” by means of which a man whom
a jury finds “not guilty” has to pay the
penalty of guilt—beoause of a mere clerical
mistake ? A short bill, something on the lines of
Mr. Keid’s, enacting that a farthing oannot carry
costs would give a jury a chanoe of doing justice
between man and man in such cases in spite of
legal mistakes or j udicial red-tape—and In so doing
would take away one fruitful cause of contempt
for the law—it would allow honest men to call
rogues by their right name—honest newspapers to
denounce oankering evils and flagrant frauds
without the risk of being ruined in spite of a
favourable verdict—and it would help to get rid
of that iniquitous judicial maxim “ the greater the
truth the greater the libel.”
Under which Barry?
Dr. Barry, Anglican Bishop of Sydney, is much
concerned about the Divoroe Extension Bill now
before the Legislative Counoil, and has carried his
opposition to it so far as to seek for allies among
the members of all the other churches. He
States, with very much decision, what he alleges
to be the clear teaching of the Bible and the
Church in support of his opposition. Yet it is
noticeable that but few of his own clergy stand
by him, and some, under the leadership of the Kev.
Zachary Barry, deny point-blank.tho application
of the Frimate’a cherished texts, and contradict
his “facts” in an emphatic manner. Which
Barry, then, are the faithful to follow ? Here
are two Anglican teachers, and each denies, with-
out reserve, that wbioh the other asserts to be
the plainest truth. Which is the heretic —the
Bishop or the priest, and whom are the faithful
sheep to follow ? This cannot be an open ques-
tion for churchmen, because the question in dis-
pute is as to whether or not the Bible is to govern
legislation; whether reason or a text of Scripture
is to guide mankind in the framing of their laws.
The Church of England now presents an edifying
spectacle. There is a Scriptural passage referring
to a house which is divided against itself; the
wrangling Barrys and their supporters might
in it find some very profitable reading. Nor is
this dissention confined to the Anglican body.
The Presbyterians are almost equally divided in
opinion, for while a committee appointed to ex-
amine the Bill so far approve of it as to suggest a
further extension to its provisions, certain of the
leading preachers of the same denomination oome
forward as prominent supporters of Bishop
Barry. Neither the Anglican Primate nor Prin-
ciple Kinross speaks for their own sect—on
the contrary, each is opposed by large numbers of
his own creed, a circumstance which is apt to dis-
count the value of dogmatic teaching in the minds
of the unregenerate. Bishop Barry has still very
much to learn regarding colonial affairs. He has
yet to discover that his ponderous deliverances
are not necessarily a law to his people; he has yet
to learn that all dogmatic teaching in Australia is
subjected to criticism even by the nominal pro-
fessors of the creed; and he has further to learn
that the Churches in the colonies do not deem it
their chief mission to obstruct with all their force
everything that looks like reasonable reform.
"When he does comprehend these things he will
cease to throw himself or try to drag his people
Into the dusty arena of active politics to oppose
a measure that promises to have a beneScial
effect, because it may» seem to slight a
text of Scripture which some of his own faith,
even with the other Barry at their head, publicly
refuse to recognise. When he does comprehend
his position, he will probably not again lead his
people out to battle only to find that half of his
force has gone over to the enemy. Now that edu-
cation has been extended, men will persist in
• thinking and acting independently of the teachings
of any church, and so long as prelates continue to
pose as political leaders, they will find a large
portion of their people perverse enough to prefer
their own preconceived opinions to anything they
may hear from the pulpit. The clergy may in-
struct, educate, and elevate their followers, but no
prelate can now, as in the dark ages, dictate or
overthrow measures of legislation.
Chief Justice Way, in sentencing Crooks, the
ex-manager of the Commercial Bank of South
Australia, a few days ago at Adelaide, delivered a
very pretty and unctuous lecture. Totting up the
direct and indirect defalcations, he brought the
prisoner in guilty of offending against honesty to
the extent of £130,000. Thereupon his Honor
delivered a sentence of eight years’ imprisonment
with hard labour. When Crooks was led below
ex-accountant Wilson came to the mil, His
Honor slid again into the pretty and unctuous
vein, and worked out Wilson’s defalcations to an
aggregate sum of £BO7 10s. For this offence
against honesty he imposed a sentence of six years
imprisonment with hard labour. Now, is there
not a popular moral to be drawn from these two
sentences ? If eight years’ hard labour be legal
equivalent for £130,000, is not six years’ hard
labour a monstrous penalty for a beggarly £BOO ?
Perhaps in the equation the quantities “ manager ”
and “ accountant ” carry specific values in judicial
eyes. If so, and if manager Crooks had stolen
only £BOO, and accountant Wilson, £120,000, how
much hard labour would the latter have come in
for, and would two promissory notes, tendered by
Crooks’ friends for the t amount, have secured his
discharge without a blot upon his name ? These
are questions that cannot be clearly answered with-
out assistance from the judicial intelligence. We,
therefore, dismiss them and point merely to the
popular moral the judgments yield. Manifestly, if
a man is to be hanged he may as well be hanged
for a sheep as for a lamb. If he is to get six years
for appropriating £BOO, and only two years more
for cribbing £130,000, he never did a more reason-
able thing in his life than going for the highly
considerable balanoe. Out of £BOO a man can’t
lay by much, anyway. Out of £130,000, if in his
youth he has been taught any lessons in Thrift,
and has been disciplined to keep his passions from
lawless riot, he will, when he re-visits the glimpses
of the freeman’s sun, be able to retire to the Con-
tinent and consort with princes of the blood,
That is the way Way's judgments lead.
-+
The holy thumpers, we fear, are about to score a
point down South by their incessant banging.
For years past the school reading books in Victoria
have, to meet the needs of a mixed community
meeting upon a common ground, been purged of
every appearance of dogmatic religious teaching,
but the Bible in State Schools League have almost
persuaded that learned fossil, Professor Pearson,
who is now Minister of Education, to revert to
the ancient Irish National School series-the same
old rubbish as is in use in N.8.W., and which have
long been kept in existence solely through the in-
fluence of the mole-eyed administrators of the
Act and the pressure of certain speculative book
importers, who work off the tons and tons of rub-
bish out of which the original publishers, Thom
and Co., of Dublin, made a fortune. One-third of
the contents of the books are extracts from
writers dead and utterly forgotten, and the re-
mainder is made up of giblets of tales and yarns
and doggerel that our grandfathers were sick of
I a hundred years ago. Not a single line in any of
them to show that ever such men existed as Ken-
dall or Clarke, or Dampier, or William Charr-
liss Wintworth, or Deniehy, or even Dan.
O’Connor; and, instead of history, readers are
given ample details of the predatory wanderings
massacreings, and plunderings of those horrid old
ruffians the kings of Irael, with nothing to show
that anything has existed corresponding to such
words as Edison, American Civil War, Napoleon
111, Sedan, Stanley, or 100-ton guns. This is the
sort of rubbish thq rc-actionarics want to bring
back.
The substance of the Colonial Architect of N.8.W.,
Mr. Barnet’s defence of the Sydney Post-office
carvings is that they are “realistic.” He men-
tions 18 cities, British and European, where he has
seen realistic carvings, and argues that these'must
be, therefore, just the things for Sydney. The
bas-reliefs on Giotto's matchless Campanile, and
those on San Michele representing artizans at
work, are spoken of by him as if they were new
discoveries in the art world. Throughout his
whole list of 18 cities he cites examples of sculp-
ture in basso relievo, each example serving to con-
demn more completely the Pitt-street caricatures
As a wind-up ho attempts to prove that, because
he has seen high-olass, artistic carvings in stone on
public buildings in those 18 cities, therefore the
Sydney Post-office abortions are also works of art*
There is a wide distinction. The former arerealis-
tic they are not stiff, hideous, or ludicrous, nor
are the figures unnatural in appearance, or badly
proportioned. Compare them with the caricatures
which disfigure one of our most expensive build-
ings. Never yet was a shearer seen shearing such
an animal in such a way. Nor such a phenomenal
slavey ” handling such an extraordinary pie.
We would like to see Mr. Barnet’s model
for that fabulous postman, that policeman, that
smirking young woman buying a paper of pins, or
that ghostly figure with down-pointing arm as
long as its leg ? To the designer’s eyes these are
“ realistic.” At Florence, he tells us, there is a
group representing a farrier shoeing a horse.
Such a group executed here, d la Barnet, would
show the farrier twice the size of the horse, and
the animal’s head would most likely be placed
where people untutored to the Barnet renais-
sance would expect to find its tail. Then the far-
rier would be represented fixing a shoe as big as a
tea-tray on the horse’s nose, and we should be ex-
pected to admire the “ realistic ” group. Realism
is not the ground of objection to the carvings. It
is because they are vile, disgraceful, barbarous
caricatures of the realistic that people condemn
them so unsparingly. They should be described
as “ idealistic,” for nothing like them has ever
been seen on earth. An attempt to compare them
to the works of art seen in the 18 cities Mr. Barnet
visited is something like comparing the oratory of
a Domain howler to that of a Castelar. To
Barnet their distinguishing features are “their
life-like action and mobility.” One of the
loudest complaints against them is their “im-
mobility.” If they only were mobile, mobile
enough to move right away to the bottom
of the harbour, and stay there, the public would
bear their loss with resignation verging on joy-
ousness. Like most great men, Mr. Barnet can
be censorious as well as patronizing. The way in
which he censures Sir F. Leighton for daring to
express an opinion on what meets with the in-
fallible one’s approval, and tries to patronize him,
is laughable. Sir Frederick must be wrong;
Barnet says so. Perhaps he is a fairly good
painter, but what does he, the President of the
Royal Academy, know about sculpture? &c.
Of course, if the public condemn the carvings that
only shows the ignorance and obtuseness of the
public. Mr. Barnet will labour vainly to educate
his employers up to his own standard; they prefer,
with a unanimity that is wonderful, their own
ignorance to his marvellous knowledge. But he
exhibits this knowledge at great risk to himself.
His reputation must be far more firmly established
than that of most men if it escapes serious injury
from his foolish “ defence ” and blind obstinacy.
The late Mr. Bichard Goldsbrough,
Richard Goldsbhough, whose portrait appears
elsewhere, was a native of Shipley, a town about
three miles from Bradford, in the West Riding' of
Yorkshire. Born in 1821, he was apprenticed at
the age of 14 to the firm of J. and L. Dawson, of
Bradford, for a term of seven years, during
which period he received a thorough insight into
the business of wool-stapling, and acquired that
knowledge to which maybe attributed the rise
and progress of the world-famed house of R.
Goldsbrough and Co. In 1842 he commenced
business on his own account in the Old Brown
Cowyard, Bradford, buying the clips of small
farmers, and sorting them for the manufacturers
For five years he conducted this enterprise, and in
1847 embarked at Liverpool, in the ship Welling-
ton, for Australia, landing at Adelaide, to whioh
centre hie attention was first drawn; but subse-
quently proceeding to Melbourne, where, in
1848, he commenced business as a wool-buyer, in
a little weatherboard store at the corner of Flin-
ders and William streets—shortly purchasing the
premises of Bakenill and Co. On the opposite cor-
ner he erected thereon the fine bluestone store
now occupied by Connell, Hogarth, and Co., dur-
ing 1851-3, a most troublous time to business men,
as the gold fever was at its height, and the greatest
difficulty was experienced in carrying on any
works. In 1853, he entered into partnership with
Messrs. Row and Kirk, as stock and station agents,
and in connection with Mr. Kirk, purchased
several stations on the Murray, but competition
decreasing the profits derivable from cattle and
sheep-breeding, Mr. Goldsbrough devoted him-
self entirely to the wool trade. In 1852, he was
joined by Mr. Hugh Parker, his brother-in-law,
who, in 1857, became a partner in the firm of K.
Goldsbrough and Co. The business was thence-
forth carried on under the style of R. Goldsbrough
and Co. Since that period the history of Mr.
Goldsbrough’s fortunes has been that of the pro-
gress of the Australian wool trade. It may safely
be said that no name has been more closely asso-
ciated with that industry. Five years later (in
1802) the present magnificent pile of buildings at
the corner of Bourke and William streets was
commenced, and it has been added to from time to
time until the wool stores of R. Goldsbrough and
Co. are probably amongst the finest and most com-
plete in existence. The total cost of land and ereo-
tion of buildings has amounted to over £150,000,
and an idea of the magnitude of the premises may
be gathered from the fact that the area of the
floors exceeds five acres. Under the joint manage-
ment of Mr. Goldsbrough and Mr. HughtParkcr
(the latter of whom died some eight years ago),
the business continued to increase rapidly. In
1873 Mr. S. Horsfall, who for many years previously
had taken an active part in the general manage-
ment, was made a partner, and in 1876 Mr. Arthur
Parker, son of Mr. Hugh Parker, and Mr. David
M. Parker, nephew of the same gentleman, were
also admitted into the business. Mr. D. M.
Parker died recently. In July, 1881, the firm
was amalgamated with the Australasian Agency
and Banking Corporation, a kindred institutiou
which had been established in Melbourne for
some years, and the business thus became a limited
liability company, with a capital of £3,000,000 in
300,000 shares ot £lO each. The members of the oid
firm remained In the business, and continued the
management as before, Mr. Goldsbrough being
one of the directors. 'J he Sydney business of R.
Goldsbrough and Co. is scarcely less extensive than
that of the Melbourne firm. The warehouses at
Pyrmont, close to the Darling Harbour railway
terminus, are said to bo the largest in the colonies,
and their erection alone cost £90,000. The business
of the Melbourne company has reached enormous
proportions. When Mr. Goldsbrough started busi-
ness in Melbourne, in 1848, the total export of
wool from the city amounted only to some 30,000
bales, or less than half the quantity which has beou
thL d io^+io he 00 ppany la Melbourne alone during
+h« I fll t m l l month ?' Iq addition to dealing in woof
"fi.® fi £m ha ve a large grain trade, and very ooa-
*\i e ™ b [e operations in Bkins, hides, tallow, and
Hmo'nfv 4 ? n Produce. They also from time to
time make important sales of squatting and free-
twlfm I im Perti * B ’i? nd thelr annual sales are over
eHtahh'ah^? 8 /* 6^ Thelr fcrade haS n °W been
tanJ 3 S 37 y e are, and their operations ex-
tend to all the colonies. A short time afro the
Rnr«f V a n g Partoera of the firm, viz , Mr. J. s.
Partlr onf r ' P-‘ + M * Parke r, and Mr. Arthur
barker, entered into an agreement with the com.
P a Mt° continue to manage the business for a
Period Of five years, so that the circum-
stances under which the business is carried on
remain practically unchanged. Essentially a man
wolioi? 6 ® 8 ’ ¥ r ' Goldsbrough never sought civic or
legislative honours, to which, from his posi-
£ IOQ mercantile world, he might fairlv
nf Tfirl? ld + olalm 1 : indeed, it was often said he was
as likely to make a bad bargain as to deliver a
platform speech. His advice and assistance were
al waya willingly given to those who
sought it, and in Practical sympathy he was never
known to fail. Differently to some of our A us.
tralian millionaires, he, while admitting the be-
nign influence of charity, took especial pains to
Phnf the world kno^wing of his kindly aots, and
though Richard Golasbrough was an individual
benevolent asylum to a host of pensioners for
Auld Lang Syne, none ever heard him mention
one charitable action he had performed. For
v? y _f, ar A be forwarded an annual sum to
be divided amongst the poor of his native
town, which he several times; visited, and
regaled his friends with tales of the antipodes
He was a thorough sportsman, and legitimate
horse-racing had no better friend in Australia.
Personally he never owned a racehorse, nor did he
ever bet except the modest [pound or two which
gives one an interest in the race.” Mr. Gtolds-
wZ’vf] 1 ? a S ri^ d before he °ame to Australia,
but his wife died nine years ago, and is interred in
the vault in the Kew Cemetery. Th® issue of the
marriage were buried in the old country in the
quiet little churchyard at Shipley, and there are
none in the colony in direct line to perpetuate the
name of one who while making fortune out of the
wealth of the country yet made the country the
better tor his presence. The children of hig
brother-in-law, the late Mr. Hugh Parker, are his
nearest relatives. During the last three years, Mr
Goldsbrough gradually relinquished his active con-
nection with the business in the past wool season.
, wa ® on y present at one or two of the initial
sales. The funeral took place on Saturday after-
noon, at half-past 2, the burial service being con-
ducted by the Rev. C. T. Perks, of St. Stephen’s
Richmond; the order of procession being-Private
carriage, containing the Rev. C. T. Perks; the
hearse, drawn by four horses; the deceased gen-
tleman s own private carriage, closed and empty •
mourning carriages containing the relatives
ot the deceased and the pall-bearers; and a large
number of private carriages and other vehicles,
extending for about three-quarters of a mile. The
pall-bearers were the Premier (Mr. Gillies), the
President of the Legislative Council (Mr. James
Macßain), Mr. M. Guthrie (manager of the London
Chartered Bank), Mr. E. Row, sen,, Mr. C. B.
Fisher, Mr. S. P. Lord, Mr. S. Booth, and Mr. W.
Attenborough. Many of the old pioneers sleep in
the vicinity of the vault which now holds the re-
plains of the late Richard Goldsbroug'h—men who.
like himself, have fought in the battle of life with
unvarying courage and unswerving faith—men
who, like him, have made the land the better for
their presence, and left a living name behind
them. Close by is the grave of Edward Henty, and
at hand sleeps another pioneer; but amongst all
the tenants of the silent tomb few, if any, have
left a fairer record than has the subject of this
Sketch,
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “ The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/-in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter ... 6/8 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ao«
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO BRIDGET O’GORMAN, “ESCAPED NUN. :
None need seek flight where none imprison’d
dwell
And none escaping, thou hast nought to tell;
So, Bridget dear, we whisper now to thee
Thou art for certain a nun-entity.
The annual rifle-mateh, between the re-
spective Cadet Corps of N.3.W. and ' Victoria,
takes place at Paddington range to-day (Thursday),
at 10 a.m.
The theatrical critio of the Paris Voltaire
is said to have received this brief but somewhat
uncomplimentary note from Sara Bernhardt:—
“Sir, —Your criticism is perversely dishonest.
You are, therefore, a combination of knave and
fool.” Which shows how much better they do
these things in Paris. In Sydney, sentiment of the
kind that agitated Sara when she wrote thus would
have been expressed with a bludgeon or a brick.
Much fuss has been made by the papers
over the receipt by the trustees of N S.W. Public
Library of several copies of old charts of the
Southern Hemisphere, the originals whereof were
drawn three or four hundred years ago. In the
centre of Africa, where, within our own school-
days, there used to be printed in beautiful big
type the word “Desert,” and which we now
know to have been for ages a densely-populated
and therefore fertile country, the old map-maker
has drawn two parallel rows of trees, called “ Trees
of the Moon,” the impression being that the
highest mountains in the world reached close up
to pale Cynthia, and possibly fanned her cheeks
with palm-leaves. Australia in the copied map
lust acquired by N.S.W., is marked “ Java the
Great.” The outline as far as Moreton Bay on the
east, and Dampier Archipelago on the west are not
far out, but the rest of the coast-outline might
! mark the track of the ancient geographer as he
[ rolled home from a spree at three in the morning.
In Central Africa he has drawn a few elephants
and several griffins. These additions to our pub-
lic collection are welcome, but still they make one
sad. They serve but to remind him who has taken
any interest in the material monuments of Austra-
lian history that the young city of Melbourne has
most of the literary treasure of this country, and
that N.S.W. has hardly any. Why, there are at least
two individuals who possess a much better collec-
tion for all usetul purposes of , Australian books
than is held by the Public Library of N.S.W.-an
institution whose authorities, if we are credibly in-
formed, some years since committed the incredible
Vandalism of selling to Spain one of the oEly two
or three oopies extant of De Quiros’narrative of
the original discovery of this continent. The S. M.
Herald gives a column and a half of space to
describing two paltry copies of ancient maps of
Australia, which the N.S.W. public have secured
by an act of grace on the part or some English
magnate or other; though all the time Henniker
Heaton has in his possession scores of quaint old
original maps, many of them over 200 and some of
them 300 years’ old, which he has mapped up in
Holland and Spain and elsewhere by the exercise
of a little trouble while the Library authorities
were asleep. It would almost pay N.a.W. to go to
war with Victoria on the speculation of annexing
her splendid nationafJibrary, which contains about
115,000 volumes, and is among the first literary in-
stitutions of the world.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most celebrated
tonic and stimulant of this or any age. Be certain
that you obtain Wolfe’s.
The most suitable invigorant, stimulant,
and protective is Wolfe’s Schnapps. Obtain the
genuine Wolfe’s.


CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-dc-
plumc cannot expect to have their cons-
ul wnicatione noticed.!
“ 7iit ” (Quirindi): When we wiped out
your line which told how “ murky gleams of dark-
ness rolled around,” we had no wish whatever to
eternally squelch your poetic ardour. Many an
Illustrious hard who earned his bread and grease—
Sydney butter at 3s. 6L a pound is half pork-fat-
by the sweat of his lofty brow, has slipped down
quite as heavily as you did. In the pathetic poem,
it j jay a-thynkynge,” the last ever written by
the author of the “Ingoldsby Legends,” the poet
"Ac I lay a-thynkynge, a-tbynkynge, a-thynk-
Sidly D sang the birde as she sat upon the thorne."
As if a birde could sing otherwise than sadly when
in such a painful position. Mr. Bob Montgomery,
who was something of a poet 50 years ago, also got
himself slightly mixed in a couplet which reads
i» And thou, vast ocean, on whose awful face
Time’s iron feet can print no ruin-trace.
Just as if old Father Time were a sort of cross be-
tween St. Peter and Hanlan, and tramped across
the ocean in No. 57 boots, leaving holes In the
waters at every step he took. Then again, dear
n gif ” i o ok at the jackass-jumble Longfellow
made in his ballad of the “ Bridge ” when he sang-
« How often, oh, how often.
In the day* that are gone by,
I had stood on that bridge at midnight,
And gazed on that wave and sky.
We don’t know “how often,” but he must have
„ot up remarkably early to catch the midnight In
the day, even once. But why talk of such small
fry as these when our own sweet singer of Shea’s
Creek, Sir ’Bnry Parkes, in his “ Settler’s Song,”
trips up as he yelps:—
“ Not a single cottager.
Like the men your fathers were,
Is there through the sun bright region
ODly sheep in countless legion.
„ zif ” You are sinning in good company....
"Tas”- Yes, John Price had a daughter. The
lady is now a resident of Sydney.. .“ Travelling
Talk”: Not class enough...,“Atlas”: Keep on
sending it. But not her®, dear boy, not here....
.. Omicron”: We notice your statement that
Jennings, referred to a fortnight ago, was sent up
for a fortnight on his pleading guilty to having
stolen a towel and hymn-book, and not on suspicion
of having stolen his clothes. As there is no state-
ment in our par. reflecting upon the magistrate who
tried the case, we think it unnecessary to publish
vour letter....“ Wager ”: You lose. The royal war
mu known as the National Debt of England,
stood at £837,000,000 In 1857, and is now £740,000,000,
“ decrease of nearly £100,000,000 in 38 years...* ‘Mis-
guided Missionary”: Held over for the present....
“LG”’ Parody quite spoilt by the coarseness of
the l«t verse....“ Bella”: Don’t know. The
picture “found” was a pen-and-ink sketoh of a
carter who clutches a lost woman, clad in faded
finery, by the arm....“C.C.R.”: A mere jon-
davisism.... “H. Watson ”: It has been much more
tersely said by Shakespeare:-
“ That man that hath a tongue I say is no man,
If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
.“Ingoldsby”: You have a nice easy style, and
your ballad begins well thus:—
« Ten days at sea, had the good ship been if
And there wasn’t any speck of land to be seen.
That lets you off with a fair start, and if you had
mentioned the captain’s name and the colour of
his hair, the introduction would have been com-
plete; but your muse bolts when you come to the
“ To’lessen the tedium of Neptune’s black realm,
We had a live bishop who sat near the helm.
These lines show that you •will get a rhyme, though
you may have to worry all through the dictionary
for it. It was the same way with one of our
poets. He wrote the first line of a couplet any-
how, and then made the second line rhyme with it.
This did well enough for tailors’ ads. poetry, but
when he started writing hymns for a Wesleyan
congregation and put in “by thunder !” as a
rhyme to “ wonder,” and “ Holy Moses to follow
“ roses ” they fired him out straight “W. A.C.”:
Well written, but not available for our use. MS.
waits your application “A.J.S.” (oydney):
Where does the art come in? We quite admit
they are not low—in position “ Paolo Macari :
Cannot find screed, and do not remember to have
Been it “Gambasino” (Tasmania): Held over
for a speotal occasion. Send us a line
*'C.A.”: The Queensland authorities seem to
have treated Sorensen most disgracefully. Firstly,
they refused his application for a warrant against
certain persons on the ground that he was, at the
time of the alleged offences, a foreigner sailing in
a foreign ship in foreign waters. Then they
arrested him for murder on the evidence of a
howling lunatic. Then they brought him to
Brisbane for trial on another charge, asserting,
when it suited themselves, that this ship was a
British ship....“Litbgow”: It is of more import-
ance that Mr. Targett should act honestly than
that he should obey you, his constituents....
“ Araluen”: “Peace with honour” is John Rus-
seirs phrase, not Beaconsfield’s....“One of the
Unemployed”: We don’t know anything about
the Queen’s “ Gold-Stick-in- Waiting ” or *' Silver-
Stiok-in- Waiting,” nor “ do we know ” what chance
you’d have of getting such a billet. We can only
recommend you to get a line to Queen Victoria
from Henniker Heaton, or Burdett Smith, or Mr.
C. J. Roberts, C.M G “P. M’Coy ”: No wonder
Mrs. Bridget O Gorman Awful left the convent.
If we could lecture we’d not continue to toil in
Thb Bulletin monastery “J.M.”: You say
you “ suppose dogs are safe with us.” We don t
advise you to test your theory by calling here—
“C.N.”; We don’t C.N.-y humour in it....“Bun-
darra Thanks, Will put them through the mill.
...." Basil Thorne ”: Declined with thanks. Screed
on application—“ P.8.P.” : We are at work as
time allows on a question which, as far as we can
see at present, is likely to smash up this water-
frontage business in one act. We cannot refer to
the piece of work you mention, until we obtain
some necessary papers “IR.S.”: The News
has to pay him £5OO. Do you want to give him a
chance of nipping us for £500,000,000?....“E.D.”:
Letter for you at Townsville post-office....
“ A.I. at Fort-street”: You complain that a certain
public-school teacher, who has been only three
years in the colony, and holds a 8,2. certificate—
like your own—receives £2OO a year whilst you
draw £l5O only, although you have been 10 years
in the service; and furthermore you seem to in-
sinuate that the new chum owes his promotion to
the fact of his having taken the chair at several
electioneering meetings of a present member of
the House. Well, all we can say is: go thou and
do likewise whenever an opportunity offers. It is
never reckoned a “ scandalous proceeding ” (as
you term it) to act in this manner, except when
your man is beaten....“ Rustio’M&oulburn); No,
it is not a member of Parliament who is lecturing
in Sydney on the “ Experiences of a Thief.”....” J.
Mundy”: The only “ legal proceedings ” that you
will take will be up Darlinghurst way in a gaol
van. Really, sir, it is quite time that you
swore off “Bundarra”: Send it along, old man,
we can stand a mail-bag full of stuff like yours.
Write it anyhow; we’ll fix it up.. ."Crayton”:
Nonsense. The Lord hath also said:—“lf a man
take a wife, and ... she find not favour in his
eyes ... he shall write a bill of divorce, and
shall give it in her hand, and send her out of his
house.” The Lord hath said a whole heap of
things, but the clergy quote only what suits them.
“E. W. Bradford ”: Will hunt up information
as soon as possible. Part of it you will find in
previous issues.. .“E.D.”: You are right. Old as
WOMAN’S REASON.
MAID OF ALL WORK.—"I don't ginerally give my reasons for leavin' a place, but
if you wants to know, I’ll tell ye, In the first place, I don't like to sleep with children.
In the next place, you don’t help enough about the work. In the next place, I only
gets seven nights a week out. In the next place, there baint no young gentlemen In
the family, and Iam dull for company. In the next place, there is too mueh work. In
the next place, you don't pay me enough. In the next place, I’ve been offered more.
In the next place, I’m goin’ to marry the butoher; and, in the next place, I'm a-goin'.
anyhow!
any of J. C. Neild’s jokes, and they date back to
the deluge.... “Spider”: “Way” and “day” do
not rhyme to latchkey—except in Irish....
«* Calumet ,r : You ask what poet wrote the lines:—
“ Bold Wentworth Lawson and their noble gang
First found their rode (sfc) over the Blue Moun-
tains.”
No poet wrote them. From their style we should
think they come from G sorge Reid’s Exhibition
Cantata, or else were written by Douglas Sladen.
....“ P. Mason ” (Ingleton, England): Of no earthly
use to us. Try the local fishmonger “C.M.”
(Tamworth): Will use it soon—when lighting gas.
“Simplex”: Will probably utilise....“Camera”:
If you don’t look out, we’Jl spall Carington with a
“K.” “Choir Music ” (Wollongong): Now, what
is the matter ? Are you a girl, and jealous of one
of the parties—or a man, and envious of the other ?
We are exceedingly glad to know that Wollon-
gong musicians are so assiduous in their study of
sacred numbers.
Will author (Melbourne) of “Elfrida Quincy,”
&j., please send his name to editor Bulletin ?
Dr. Barry says that the legalisation of
marriage with a deceased wife’s sister was “ a mere
nothing in comparison with this extension of
divorce.” A mere nothing I His clergy and the
good churchmen howled enough over it, a few
years since, to make one think that they believed
it to be national ruin in one act.
The Pentridge gaol officials found the
other day in the prison the remains of a fine pig
cut up and salted down in a large can. They took
the pork away, remarking that it was Lent, and
no right-minded prisoner should eat meat. That
porker had been stolen from the gaol piggeries,
and butchered by the convicts without detection—
the watchful guardians didn’t even miss it. Per-
haps, however, this saltporlc was made out of a
warder.
A LEGEND OF THE LAW. •
In the island of Australia—the wealth of
Ormuz and of lud would not induce us to be
more specific—this happened. The doctor s man
had wrestled with the “ she-oak ” when it Beethed
in the pewter, and had gone forth with the vit-
riol madness flushing up in his head,” and horrid
murder looking out of his eyes, to wipe the town
gutters with respectable ratepayers, and disport
himself generally. After he had “ spoiled the
principal baker, bereft the local editor of three
teeth and his remaining ear, administered the
“ undercut ” on scientific principles, tempered to
the shorn lamb by Divine Providence, to a defence-
less octogenarian, maimed a third cousin of the
mayor’s second wife, and jumped on a perfect
stranger—the law, which sleeps not, got its eye
focussed on him, and, with the assistance
of a butcher and four maintenance men
bore-him in triumph to a dungeon-cell. Next
morning he was ushered into the presence
of the dreadful beak by a trembling police-
man, who, with a discreet step, picked his
way carefully among the fiery serpents and
wall-eyed fiends that monopolised the court floor,
and charged with being guilty of conduct calcu-
lated to cause a breach of the peace. The P.M.,
who was distinctly drunk, made a Titanio effort to
pull himself together, and, fixing a stern and un-
certain eye on the C.P.S., said that that func-
tionary had told him in the bar of the Shearers’
Arms that there were no affiliation cases set down
for his adjudication, and then went on to deplore
the scandalous moral condition of the Itown,
informing the prisoner that in the event of the
paternity being proved, he would punish him in
a manner which would prove a deterrent to
others. Then he fell into a torpor, from which the
explanations of the C.P.8., who had almost entirely
recovered from the jim-jams, failed to arouse
him. The prisoner, repentant and red-eyed,
pleaded guilty and threw himself on the mercy of
the Court, which woke up and said: “Give ’em
twen’-four nourshl” The Doctor, who was in
Court, and not much the worse for liquor, there-
upon arose, and, in tolerably coherent language,
begged the P.M. to reconsider his decision. He
pointed out that Tom had never before set the
law at defiance; that even in the midst of this
escapade he had forborne to get the octogena-
rian’s head in chancery when he might have done
so and finished him off in one act; also that he (the
Doctor) had a horse bad with the snuffles and Tom
was the only man he had confidence in as being a
horse-doctor. The P.M., who had relapsed into a
state of coma, again recovered here and demanded,
“ Worsh the Doctor (hie) saying?" when this was ex-
plained. “Doctorsh right nuif, 'fernal scoundrelsh
hill Doctorsh horse,” he cried, “I give ’m 14 daysh.”
80 the culprit was borne away again to what the
Nooze calls durance vile, and the doctor, sobered
by indignation,jsought out the s c nior- constable,
who had been going through the intoxicated
shearer at euchre in the T bar-parlor of the Golden
Hole Hotel all the morning. ‘‘Ahl” said that
worthy, “ that’s bad. I thought the P.M. looked a
bit ‘tanked’ this morning going up the street.
But no matter, I’ll see that Tom's made comfort-
able up there. Come up to-night and bring the
cards and a bottle of brandy. His cell will be a
flrat-rate place to make a night of it in.” But,
alasl they made no night of it. On his
arrival home [the doctor found Tom jubilantly
physicking the sick horse. “ How the devil came
you to be here?” he asked. “This was how it
was,” said Tom—“the gaolkeeper wasn’t to be
found, so the policeman what took me up got the
keys off a nail, and looked me in, and hung ’em
up again. By and bye, after he was gone a bit, I
heard a devil of a scuffle, and two more constables
came and opened the door and dragged the gaol-
keeper in—* Here, out you get, quick,’ sez they,
‘ he’s got the horrors, and there’s no room here
for you unless you want to be chawed limb from
limb. Now, cut home, if you want to live!’ 80
here I am.” This didn’t happen in Wentworth,
nor in Jerilderie, nor in Howlong; neither in Ar-
midale, nor in Bydney, but it happened, and they
all lived happily ever after, and nobody can take
liberties with the law.
The Sydney correspondent of L’lndepen-
dant reports for the information of his country-
men in New Caledonia, the closing scene of what
he traitorously calls the last act of the Soudan
Comedy. He beheld, he says, the 580 survivors of
“ the glorious 720 who, a year ago, set out for the
Soudan to seek victory or death, and who re-
turned with a he ass and a she-goat.” He describes
how they looked, how they marched, how they
wore their coats, hats, pantaloons, boots, and de-
clares: “ They were not a nice lot to cast eyes on,
these warriors 1” It is rather a daring thing for
our Frenchman to be so critical just now.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri-
cans all drink Woxae’s SoawAPPS.
There is no better judge for what is geod than
Germans—They always drink Woeee’s Schnapps.
VARIOUS VERSES.
Tardy Justice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Suggested by “ Early Spring,” and inscribed with
an apology to the Baron (yet prolific) Tennyson.
Once more Dame Nature’s power makes all thirga
new,
But still doth poor St. Giles
Foul misery view;
Yet custom reconciles
Somewhat, ’tis true.
Opens no door in Heaven. From skies of brass
Hia prayers, his groans resound
Unheard. Alas!
Fallen on stony ground,
Thus his years pasa.
Whirls past him, proud St. James, with pomp
and din,
And Bhine his jewelled hands,
His diamond pin—
Heir to the titles, lands,
Fraud first did win.
His horses highly-groomed, well-shod, well-fed;
Shriv’ring St. Giles has naught—
No food, no bed.
And yet the 1 00l has wrought
To earn his bread.
St. James ne’er soils his hands—this inference
draw
That tollers sweat to fill
The idlers’ maw,
To pay the Nation’s bill,
For such the law.
How long, O Lord, how long? Still dotards Stare
Because the poor complain—
Because they dare
“ Disturb our good Queen’s reign,”
In their despair.
Ye lordlings, fat ones, hard will be your fate
When wronged men mass’d arise
Within your gate,
Their cry unheard, your cries
Will but whet hate.
Once more the temporal power grants titles new
Strews favours round, delights
The parvenu;
The toadies have their knights,
The poets too.
March 2nd, 1883.
The Devil.
“ Some say the Deil’s Dead.”— Old Scotch Song.
[For The Bulletin.!
Yes, poor Devil, he’s dead and gone; he was
laughed to his grave by the wits;
His horns, tail, hoof, were ne’er joke-proof, nor his
bottomless brimstone pits;
Vainly his horns he hid in a wig, vainly his hoofs
i were pared, . . .
1 They tied his tail in true lover’s knots, by no bogus
! dangers scared.
Did he leave a large fam’ly behind? for heirs
entail d’you enquire ? ,
Did he leave the church with nought in the lurch,
no Satan, and no hellflre ?
He has left a numerous brood who are sturdy and
hard to kill,
They have dropped the aristocratic “De ’’—they
are known as Evil, or 111.
His eldest son wears a crown that is jewelled with
poor folks’ tears,
A cup that brims with their blood and sweat h§
quaffs with his trusty peers:
And the bones of the poor are ground for his
bread, his mill-wheels never stay:
Should Demos growl, hear the holy howl, Be
content with your station, pray,”
A mitre the horns conceals of the next, a oassook
hides tail and toes;
He bleeds the widow and orphan with tales of
Purgatorial woes, ,
Or gets “ called by the Lord.” no matter where,
so long as the *‘ gelt’s” enough,
The honest only dare be poor—a poor bishop, J-r
pooh-pooh! what stuff!
Yet another conee Croesus, thou money-made
man; begilt your horns and tall,
They dazzle the eyes of the weakling, they shield
you about like mail;
All your idle gold, your squander’d wealth, wa#
created by Labour’s sweat—
You have stolen poor Esau’s birth-right—can yon
ever pay the debt ?
Then the lawyer, a pleader for Justice. Oh, woe
the unhappy day
When Justice for gold is bought and sold at prices
the poor can’t pay,
When hundreds are robbed and legally killed
’neath the Goddess’ bandaged eyes,
For the stately law-courts ever re-echo some
wronged one’s sighs.
Then the soldier—a butcher, licensed to kill in a,
wholesale sort of way;
The assassin, who strangles Freedom for one and a
penny a day;
A marionette in a jacket red, who marked in by,
gone years
The earth with rapine and ruin and drenched her
with rivers of blood and tears.
And the legislator venal, daylight robber, than
vampire worse,
Who leechlike drains, through her dwindling veins
the contents of his country’s purse.
The landlord whose annual returns doth his first
expense defray,
In houses, mere dens, each dweller drinks draughts
which body and mind decay.
These, these, are the Devil’s offspring, they fill
fairly the Old Man’s place;
They filch from toil all his earnings; they’re a scab
on the earth’s fair face:
They snatch the bread from the children’s mouths;
they immure them in dens of sin,
When such rogues wax fat, don’t wonder that a
workman’s gaunt and thin.
The drones are the Devil’s children, their’s what
another’s toil has gained,
And by Poverty, both of body and mind, is their
iron sway maintained;
’Tis Labour creates the labourer’s hire, yet the
hirer the workman spurns,
In Demos’ breast lies his heart at rest—this a worm
that never turns.
Yes, the day is at hand when unshackled Truth
shall, all humbug and sham unmask.
Then shall Freedom, Love, and Brotherhood in the
sun of knowledge bask.
And Poverty, Fraud, and Ignorance the last of
the hellish brood,
The bane of the world shall be downward hurl’d
and replac’d with ne’er ending Good.
March sth, 18C6.
A Southern newspaper proprietor has hit
upon a new and original plan to get the worth of
his money out of his reporting-staff. After
swearing at them all the week with an exuberant
volubility which would turn a bullock-driver, or
a Cobb and Co.’s coachman, green with jealousy,
be invites them out, three at a time, to bis country
residence, to stay from Saturday to Monday. The
reason why he does not ask the whole staff at
once and be done with it, is that there is a little
difficulty about “the togs.” After a series of
careful experiments, it has been ascertained that
their united resources, with the bountiful use of
strings and pins, just enable three of their number
to put in an appearance clothed, and in their right
mind, at his country palace. The other difficulty,
of getting the contingent from the office to do
the police courts in a state of comparative
sobriety (Saturday being pay day), cannot be alto-
gether overcome, but the journey is pretty
lengthy, and all the pubs, on the road have been
served with prohibition orders.
"■Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.


Personal
I tems
The name of the Y.M.C.A. secretary at
Adelaide appears to be “ Walker.” £l3OO.
Mr. Donald MUntyre writes to the Argus
saying that his sister is 7iot going to marry Lord
Normanby.
Mr. E. B. Holt is a clergy naan charged
with having taken up the collection a little too
previously.
In opening the eleventh Parliament of her
reign, Queen Victoria has done what no other
English sovereign since Henry VI ever did.
Henniker Heaton will bring out another
edition of his “Australian Dictionary of Dates
and Men of the Time ” in 1888, our Centennial year.
Mr. Barnet, the N.S.W. Colonial Architeot,
is a Scotchman. All the Scotchmen in the Cham-
ber of the Dead voted for the retention of the
Post-Office carvings.
The late Peter Manifold, squatter, of Vic-
toria, died leaving to us who still linger up on the
surface £315,637. The Victorian people, i.e., the
Treasury, get 10 per cent, of £34,563.
The facetious [Judge' Paul, of Queens-
land, has, we are sorry to hear, had a recurrence
of the paralytic malady which a year or two ago
necessitated his retirement for a season to the old
country.
David Buchanan is reported to have told
a Mudgee Post reporter that if A. G. Taylor chose
to adopt the law as a profession he would in a few
years lead the Bar. David attributes to A.G.T.
the possession of a “ microscopic vision.”
We see that Sir Daniel Cooper is giving £4BOO
a year for Lord Wimbourne’s shootings and fish-
ings in Scotland. And yet not long ago we landed
on the foreshores of Port Jackson, and got thun-
der from one of his myrmidons for taking an
oyster 1
In the last issue of Mortimer Franklyn’s
Federal Australian he published the first of a
series of “ Strange Stories.” Since then he has,
with the help of the Commissioner in Insolvency,
been giving to the world a series of Much —very
much—Stranger Stories.
Extract from the letter of a Far Northern
correspondent:—" The goldfields warden from
overtook us on the road. He had two black-
troopers with him —both dressed in native-police
rig; but one of them turns out to be a gin of
whom he is enamoured.”
Verdict of jury on the sudden death of
Dr. Foord Clark, of Tamworth, N.S.W., was
“ accidental poisoning.” The doctor had been in
the habit of taking morphia, chloroform, &c., but
latterly had dabbled with prussic acid. It was
from an overdose of the latter that he died 35
minutes after taking it.
An English paper attributes to Mr. Justice
Chitty a mot apropos of the fall of a large piece
of plaster from the ceiling of a court in which he
was trying a case: u Fiat Justitia ruat caelum!"
A quarter of a century ago, in N.8.W., the very
same witticism was credited to the late Mr. Broad-
hurst, Q.C. The joke is probably 1000 years old.
It will interest the colonial Jingoes who
have (properly enough) made such a fuss over the
distinguished General Fremantle, V.C., to know
that the General derides their ideas on the New
Hebrides question, and laughs at those who think
England snould even go to war with France to
please that select set of Australian “patriots”
who want another land-grab in the Pacific.
Mr. James Allen, journalist, who died in
Melbourne lately, aged 80, was early in life a mem-
ber of the reporting staff of the Morning Post,
where he had for one of his colleagues the late
Charles Dickens, who was then just starting his
literary career. He came out to Adelaide in 1869,
and was subsequently connected with journalistic
ventures in Adelaide, Melbourne, and Hobart.
One Silva has been arrested in Melbourne
for alleged robbery. His wife is a woman of rank,
fortune, and fashion in London; and while she
lunches in Belgravia'on perdrixaux truffes, washed
down by “Comet hock,” her husband “wolfs”
skilly in Melbourne Gaol. And over this pair a
Bishop of the English Church once pronounced the
solemn words—“ Whom God hath joined let no man
put asunder.”
Dr. Motherwell, of Melbourne, Is dead,
aged 71. He arrived in Australia nearly 50 years
ago, and was for a time medical officer at Port
Arthur penitentiary of infamous memory. The
doctor died in opulent circumstances, was a quaint
kindly old gentleman, who was well-respected
alike by the community and by his medical
brethren, despite his belief in such heterodox
things as spiritualism, mesmerism, and so on.
“Figurescan be made to prove anything.”
This must be a “ blessed thort ” to the directors of
the Commercial Bank of S.A.. now about to be
sued by some indignant shareholders, who,
amongst divers other cheerful items, point out
that the said directors brought up a Crook-ed
balance-sheet, in which they made out that tho
profits for the half-year were over £45,000, where-
as the bank had lost £BO,OOO on one station spec,
alone.
V.M.C.A. Young Man Caught AgaiD.
Walker, the defaulting secretary of the Adelaide
Young Men’s Christian Association, “ when a good
young man went to him and said he had neither
money nor work, would give him the means to
get bed and breakfast. It is stated that the money
missing was used in this way.” Over £l3OO in beds
and breakfasts! The young man is a martyr; his
crime consists in having trundled the Cause with-
out squaring the ledger.
The teachers of Victoria have subscribed
£3OO towards a Gladman Memorial Fund, and it is
likely the Government will add £3OO to it. The
late gentleman was brought from England seven
or eight years ago to re-organise the Training In-
stitution for teachers, then one of the most expen-
sive and ridiculous impostures that ever set up
under the name. He was a thorough enthusiast,
gentlemanly, and respected by every student who
passed through his hands. He killed himself
through hard work.
Dion Boucioault says:—“The population
of N.S.W. and Victoria put together is about equal
to the population of the city of New York and its
suburbs. The population of N.Z. is about one-
half the population of Philadelphia city. There
are only six cities in Australia worth visiting—
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Sandhurst, Ballarat,
and Brisbane. There are four cities in N.Z.—Auck-
land, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin.”
We would like to know his opinion of that picnic,
and of Dan.’s “spache ” on the occasion.
The heroic resolve of General Grant,
struggling against his death-disease, to write a
book so that his wife might be left in comfort
during her widowhood has had its reward. The
publishers of the Memoirs have sent to Mrs.
Grant a cheque for £40,C00 as her share of the
profits of the first volume. It ifl expected that
when the second volume of the Memoirs has
been published the payments to Mrs. Grant will
reach £lOO,OOO. This extraordinary result of
death-bed labour is unparalleled in tho annals of
literature.
Mr. Forbes, the New Guinea explorer, was
at latest time of writing, at Sogone, collecting
beetles, birds, and butterflies. He was in fair
health, and merely waiting for the wet season to
close before making the dart up the gigantic
Mount Owen Stanley, whioh is to immortalise
him. It may do so in more ways than one, remarks
our cynical correspondent. Rev. Watson Sharpe,
of the London Missionary Society, has died of
New Guinea fever at Cooktown. Rev. E. B.
Savage is down with the same fell disease; Mr.
Bevan is likewise ill at Port Moresby.
The heir apparent to the duohy of Marl-
borough (son of the present Duke and the poor lady
who procured a divorce from him) is “ in the hands
of a trustee.” This trustee has been endeavouring
to legally restrain the delectable Duke from part-
ing with any more of the family pictures, but the
Court of Appeal has declined to interfere in the
matter. Quite right, too. The Duke of Marl-
borough has sold his famous Raphael to the nation
for £70,000, and, perhaps, at a price he might feel
disposed to dispose of his worthy self to the same
purchaser. The nation might then make him into
a policeman—or a bonfire.
, Maharajah Duleep Singh, the deposed
King of Punjaub, after a long residence in Eng-
land, has decided to return to India unless the
British Government will add to the pension of
£35,000 now paid to him under the treaty of
Lahore by about £lB,OOO, that amount being
the total of pensions formerly paid to his
relatives, and of which he claims the rever-
sion. The famous Koh-i-noor diamond was once
the property of his throne, but was “ obtained ”
by England when he was deposed in 1816. Inquiry
into his case has been promised, but it is almost
certain that he will leave England.
Mr. Alex. Crooks, bank manager, lately a
chosen vessel of the Adelaide godly, but now in
gaol, is a canny man. Not long ago he sold by
auction his furniture and effects, and now he has
filed his schedule. He thinks he’ll get a trip from
prison to the local Insolvency Court to help the
accountant to fog out something like a balance-
sheet. Mr. Crooks’ creditors will now be able to
realise on the copyright of his new book, entitled
“ Every man the architect of his own fortune, or
help yourself when the coin is there; being a
treatise on the superlative advantage of having a
boss-eyed chairman with one eye up the chimney.”
How these abstainers love one another!
Jimmy Munro and Jimmy Mirams are floating
rival Coffee Palaces in Melbourne. They are not
joining hands in the Good Cause. Oh, no. Each
gives the sniff of disdain when the other’s scheme
is mentioned. Poor little Mirams, we fear, is
being crushed again, for whereas his Federal
Palace exists as yet only on paper, the Wily
Munro has bought a ready-made hotel and will be
driving a roaring trade before the rejected of
Collingwood has got the roof on his show. The
HELP!
MR. LIMBER-JIM: “ALLOW ME TO HELP YOU OVER THE FENCE, MISS LIGHTBODY!”
MISS L.: "NO, THANK YOU, BUT YOU MAY HELP THE FENCE.”
keen 1 competition between the two’water-drinkers
will probably drive one or the other of ’em to
whisky. Out of evil oftentimes cometh good.
Admiral the Duke of Edinburgh, who for
distinguished services rendered in Port Jackson,
Hobson’s Bay, Tien Tsin, Trafalgar, and Aboukir,
was appointed over the heads of scores of his
seniors to command the Mediterranean fleet, has
left the Duchess to occupy the palace of ban
Antonia at Malta, while he is away on the bound-
ing wave to crush the foes of England. London
correspondence shows he is prepared“ The Duke
carried out on his ship an immense quantity of
furniture, together with china, plate, and linen,
and five horses and three carriages.” From which
it is evident that at the first seaport he touches he
will be fully equipped when he lands for conquests
—of the old sort.
The face of the “eminent thought-reader,”
Mr. Stuart Cumberland, though of a somewhat
similar order of beauty, is not as handsome as that
of Robert Burdett Smith (whom may the gods
preserve for ever young 1). Mr. Cumberland—
who will soon be in Sydney—is a stout young man,
with fair hair and a florid face. He has not what
a fastidious person would call a distinguished
appearance, but he looks eminently well-fed.
There are no traces of care upon his brow—in fact
he gives you the impression that he has been so
much occupied in reading the thoughts of others
that he has had no time to think for himself.
Taken altogether, he is a good-looking, substan-
tially-built young man who, a few years hence,
should be an ornament to any aldermanic dinner.
Lord St. Leonards, the sprig of English
nobility, who, having found John Bull’s island too
sultry, recently sought in Melbourne a wider field
for the indulgence of his amiable eccentricities,
has just been left a large legacy under the will of
his uncle, the Rev. Sugden, late vicar of Bt.
Leonards-on-Hea. This " came in handy,” as his
lordship’s exchequer was beginning to get rather
low; and he has since been engaged in the con-
genial task of painting the town red. This noble
peer’s grandfather was a barber. That was good.
His father was Lord Chancellor of England. That
was better. The splendid career of the present
peer himself puts a climax on theglory of his noble
race and affords an irrefragable argument in
favour of the British system of hereditary legis-
lation.
Another poor toiler in the service of the
Lord has died in a state of abject poverty. The
late Archbishop of Armagh only left a trifle of
£91,000 to pay funeral expenses. We understand
“ disappointment is felt that he did not make any
benefaction to the Church.” Absurd! Most
likely the good old gentleman was annoyed
with the Church for treating him so scur-
vily. The Archbishop, it may be remembered,
was an important witness in the divorce-suit
brought by the Earl of Durham against
his wife on the gronnd that she was insane
upon her marriage day. The Aroh B. was
uncle to Lady Durham, and he swore that his nieoe
was a “ most sensible young woman ” when she
entered into the holy bonds. The learned judge
who tried the case was in the unpleasant predica-
ment of having to throw over either an earl or a
Primate of Ireland, so of two evils he chose the
lesser, and the Earl of Durham is still legally lov-
ing and cherishing his lunatic Countess.
A Melbourne correspondent •writes “ I
can bear tes'imony that Beach’s last speech, as re-
ported in the daily papers, was simply unrecog-
nisable by anyone who had heard him deliver the
oration in question. I took a short-hand note,
and this is exactly what Mr. William Beach did
say:— ‘ Mr. Chairman and gentlemen—(cheers)—l
aint much of a single-handed pitcher, but I think
I can row pretty well. (Loud applause.) lam
going to England with my mate, Mr. Deeble, the
whitest man I know ’ (the modest Mr. Deeble here
ejaculated ‘hear, hear’) ‘and they will have to
produce something better that anything seen on
the Thames yet to lick me. (Tumultuous cheer-
ing.) I aint much given to blowing, boys—(hear,
hear)—but the sculler don’t live who can best me
on a straight course and no favour. (Tremendous
enthusiasm.) lam going to represent Dapto in
the first place, N.S.W. in the second, and Australia
in the third, and I’ll come back as I went—cham-
pion of the world.” The sculler of a century re-
sumed his seat amid continued and deafening ap-
plause.
Her Majesty (we lay down our magnum
bonum and sympathetically mutter over the
long yellow handle, “God bless- her I” Sur-
rounded as Victoria constantly is by craven
lackeys, pensioned noodles, and vapid flunkeys,
she is so little likely ever to know what a true
woman’s duty is in the half-angelic, half-demonial
existence we call life, that unless the Supreme
Power blesses her, and does it specially, largely,
and often, she will, when she steps forward among
the lightning-flashes in the Valley of Jehosophat,
look the sorriest thing that ever wore petticoats
at the head of a nation). Her Majesty (thinking
of the legions of over-worked and workless,
under-fed and foodless, poor, weary daughters of
Eve that strain wet eyes over the face of the Royal
Kingdom for a ray of hope under which to place
the brows of their starving babes, we again lay
down our pen and say, “God bless Victorial”)
Her Majesty—(Let the reader petition this time;
we must speed on with our item of news)—Her
Majesty has, it is officially announced, contributed
£lO to the London Asylum for Homeless Dogs.
Brigadier-General M‘lver has been fined
£3 for obscene language at Charters Towers, on
the evidence of two enterprising policeman. “And
yet,” says a local paper, “ it is strange to say that
not one of those who have been most intimately
connected with the General during his short stay
amongst us—and one or two gentlemen who knew
him previously—ever heard an obscene word come
from his lips; yet, when he was alone on the
streets, at 1 o’clock in the morning, and quite
sober, he should, according to the two policemen,
use obscene language without an object.” The
townspeople have given the General an illuminated
testimonial with signatures verified by the Mayor,
to the effect that they know him to be incapable of
such deeds. The Mayor has endorsed his sym-
pathy on the document, and all the newspaper
people in the place, including Thadeus O’Kane,
have deliberately stated in print that the General's
name remains untarnished in the eyes of the city
of Charters Towers-that they ignore the verdict
of the magistrate, and believe the policemen to be
blue-coated malefactors. The Towers people are
a good-natured set. They would just as soon give
a General a testimonial for being drunk and dis-
orderly as for anything else.
George Halkerston Macdougall, part pro-
prietor of the Bathurst (N.S.W.) Tlmbs, being
goaded to madness by a taunt that he couldn’t
trace his pedigree back farther than the landing
of Captain Cook, fired up, and published a list of
his ancestors to prove he was descended from
Mah Dhugal the First, who bossed a tribe of bare-
legged savages in Scythia 1380 years BC. This,
of course, was “sour pizen ” to the mendacious
journalistic beggar opposite, who at once pro-
ceeded to polt mud at the spotless escutcheon of
the Macdougall alter this style:—“When we first
came to Bathurst, many years ago, the Clan Mac-
dougall lived in a brown paper and tin mansion in
Durham-street, the rent of which was 3s. per
week, with water laid on, through the roof. The
Clan had a young lodger, a girl, who, when the
weather was warm enough to permit her appear-
ing in public, was generally covered with bread
and treacle. The Clan also had a pig bucket,
whioh was kept at the ‘Crooked Billet,’ where
there was an excellent kitchen. No one knew
then that master George Halkerston was the sole
male representative of such a crack family as he
is.” The Dougal is now putting an edge on his
braw claymore, while the other fellow, being a
lineal descendant of O’Donnell Aboo, is out in the
busb at Mary’s-lane looking round’ amongst the
gums for a nate little ktppeen av a shtlck. We are
now anxiously awaiting the further developmen
of this interesting controversy.
“The good is oft interred with our bones.”
Too true I The little bit of good accomplished by
Mr. John Gordon, late secretary to the Melbourne
Shop Employes Union, was interred with prompt
despatch. Mr. Gordon—an enthusiast in the cause
—succumbed to consumption and excitement
during the recent “ early closing agitation.” As a
matter of fact, over-exertion hastened his death
by months, if not years, and it was fittingly ar-
ranged that the funeral of their secretary should
be honoured by a “ demonstration ” on the part of
the employes. When the demonstration came off,
a beggarly array of 300 lackadaisical counter-
jumpers turned up to take part in it. No better
proof is needed of the hopelessness of looking for
any esprit de corps among the faint-hearted army
of shop-assistants than was afforded at the burial
of their late leader. The large body of policemen
—mounted and foot—told off to control anticipated
enthusiasm at this melancholy ceremonial nearly
equalled the processionists in number. The whole
affair was a grim satire on the recent riots. Now,
if a stray policeman—fighting on the side opposed
to Gordon—had been killed by an incidental brick,
what a wake he would have had I Every shop-
keeper in Melbourne would have dropped his tear
into the open grave.
Sometime ago certain high-toned person-
ages not unconnected with that most aristocratic
corps, the Sydney Lanceahs, tried hard in a round-
about way to get rid of a smart and soldierly-
looking trooper, who, doncherknow, is—aw 1—
engaged iff retail trade. There was a terrible row,
which nearly brought about the disruption of the
corps. The trooper in question, is evidently
a rare plucked one, and not to be snuffed out, so
on being requested a little while since to fill up his
end of the muster-roll he put himself down as
“Blank, shirt merchant”—which so disgusted a lot
of the other noblemen, that at several subsequent
parades they, no doubt accidentally, passed over his
plebeian name and occupation. They were at
once reported by the irrepressible trooper, and
were censured by the “ War Office authorities "
just as if they had been common persons like that
horrid fellow the “ shirt merchant.” Things have
on the whole rubbed along somewhat more
smoothly since then, but when on a recent occa-
sion Blank put himself down as "Blank, sock
merchant,” some of the officials had 15 different
kinds of kicking;fits inside of 10 seconds, and one
lordly personage was so badly broken up that
they had to carry away his remains on a sheet of
blotting-paper. The—aw—service is going to the
devil, sir, bai Jawvel
The Wentworth Advocate says that—
“ Poor old Rodney, King of the Pooncarie tribe of
blacks, died recently at Mallara after a lingering
illness of about two months. Rodney had been a
gay Lothario in his youth, and, although often
guilty of indiscretion, was a general favourite at
all the stations in the district. Queen Mary, his
amiable spouse, mourns her loss deeply, and has
just completed the usual ‘walk-about’ which is
the deepest mark of grief amongst the aborigines.”
Alas I there is a reaper whose name is Death. The
tingle of his scythe is always heard as the sheaves
bend their golden heads and rustle to earth in his
eternal harvest-field. The Cassarsare gone, the
shouts of the Napoleonic wars are hushed, crowned
heads have been uncrowned and laid upon the lap
of earth, and now King Rodney lies still in the
common silent mausoleum. No more that restless
and perturbed head is filled with the subtle but
far-reaching ambition which sent King Bungaboo
and his hosts to ’possumless wastes with junks of
spear in those portions of their anatomies where
the ’possum ought to be. The Government blan-
ket now hangs in tatters on the shoulder of his
gin, his pipe sticks mournfully over her left ear,
and his old square bottle in the corner stands cort •
less, (red) heartless, and forlorn. Soon, soon the
Bungaboonians’ ferocious waddy will whirl in
fiery circles and come down on the hapless skulls
of the weeping Pooncaries like a nigger’s head
against the end of a rum-barrel. But Rodney will
sleep on in the grave where hisjlubra has laid him.
The mopoke and the laughing-jackass will squawk
mournfully overhead, and the wife of his bosom
will wander disconsolately in the streets of Went-
worth and plead in all the bitter accents of widow-
hood: “My ole man dead. You gimme bacca?
Gib it thikpence, Mister.”
J. Vernon Theed, the crank who has
carried our loyalty craze to the extent of publicly
falling up to his ears in love with the popular
Lady Carington, is an effeminate, but handsome
young Englishman, about 33 years of age, and,
comparatively speaking, a complete stranger in
Australia, having no relatives here, and few
friends. For some time past he has held the posi-
tion of organist at Bt. David’s Church, Surry Hills,
to which church he removed after having
efficiently filled a similar post in the choir of St.
Matthias’ at Waverley. Being an excellent organ-
ist, a pleasing singer, and a quiet, gentlemanly
young fellow as well, he was a great favourite
with his choristers, although his eccentric ways at
times led many to suspect he was “ashingle
short.” Now the whole roof seems to have gone
entirely, for although he speaks sensibly enough
on all other subjects, the very name of Carington
sends him “ off ” altogether. In his mania he
seems to take a despairing view of things, telling
her ladyship in one of his letters to “ kiss the dear
children for him,” but not to sorrow over his
enforced absence, as “Lord Carington objects to h s
visiting Government House at present.” At his ex-
amination before the Bench he admitted the hope-
less nature of his love, adding that he “bore Lord
Carington no ill-will, as he was only acting as a
good husband should, and besides, he had kindly
placed the use of his carriage at his (Theed’s) dis-
posal.” Theed used to stand on the footpath
whenever her ladyship passed, and sigh—
“ What a dear little oreature, to be sure just as
Master Slender was wont to go mooning round
with his eternal refrain of “Ahl sweet Annie
Page.” Whilst at the receiving-houso Theed was
visited by some friends, to whom he spoke so
rationally that they were about to apply for his
release there and then, when some one dropped a
chance remark about Lord Carington, and he im-
mediately began to babble nonsense. On tte
night of his arrest, poor Theed was to have playi d
and sung at a concert at St. David’s, and the audi-
ence were kept impatiently waiting till a substi-
tute could be found. Nothing was known of his
calamity until next day, and his case seems to be
a pitiable one all through. But, after all, he is not
worse than several people who write for the Syd-
ney dallies. If you just mention the Governor s
name to them they indulge immediately in a rhap-
sody of the most abjeot adulation. There aio
plenty of them who ought to go to keep company
with Theed.
It is a practice of ours on the arrival of
the European mail to run through most of the
leading papers of the world. We like to know
now the various nations are working out their
destinies, and how the leaders are steering the
ship of state. Our purpose in this is not to
acquire further light for our own use, beoause we
are already in full blaze; but we like to catch a
gleam or two from the old world and rellect them cn
this page in the patriotic hope that they may catch
the eye of Mr. Abigail, or Mr. O’Connor, or Mr.
Cassius Neild, or whoever for the time being may
be moulding (or mildewing) public opinion, so to
speak. We are not above noting tne carryings
on of royalty, and our heart goes out whenever
we hear one of the purple blood has bruised his
toe, or suffers from earache. The cause of our
present depression is to be found in the following
extract from the Lady’s London Letter of the
Melbourne Leader:— “The Emperor William or
Germany, the wonderful olu man of nearly .w
years, is battling hard against the insidious enemy
old age, and although he totters along, his voice
weak,, and his once powerful frame wasting away
he still shows that he is determined to die m
harness.” Whether it is more respectful to picture
royalty dying with a collar, hames, winkers ana
breeching on, or dying in shirt-sleeves like other
men, we shall not determine, but we think the om
man will shuffle off more comfortably in the usm l
way. Then, “One day there is published a bulle-
tin about his failing health, and tne next mj
is recorded as having attended a State oau,
and the day after, we suppose, "His Impe^ 1 * 1
Majesty complained to his medical attendants tmm
two of his ribs appeared to be over -lapped and ouo


of his ears was hanging loose. His advisers attri-
bute this to undue exertion in walking through a
quadrille at a greater pace than two steps a
minute. They advise complete rest lor a week.
But no. When duty calls grandfather Bill s toes
yearn to trip it lightly among the ribboned fair.
Unluckily, at the last ball, “ when he was leading
the Crown Princess to her seat after supper his
spurs caught in the heavy carpet and he stumbled
and fell He was immediately lifted up, and the
accident seems to have had no serious or lasting
effect.” Some time ago, we remember, a Dubbo
man tried to kill his dog. Toby was first poisoned,
tnen hanged, then knocked on the head, and Anally
buried; but he got up in an hour and wagged his
tail. Subsequently, however, he died. The soul
of that dog must have entered into and vitalised
the ancient body of Emperor William.
Many of the anecdotes with which Mr. C.
E. Jones enlivens his lectures are fairly new,
and many more are as old as the world, but all
are told with a racy vim which would draw
a laugh even out of one of the pickled Pharoahs.
In his lecture on the Mormons, for instance, he
told a tale of Joe Smith, the polygamous founder
of the Mormon creed, who, by way of proving the
divinity of his mission, undertook to show off his
power of walking on the water. The time for the
fun having arrived Joe found himself in a rather
awkward tlx, as he had neither the trusting 1 faith
of St. Peter nor the kerosene-can hoots of sculler
Hanlan. Pacing his flock, however, Joe declared
he was ready to tread water, but explained that it
was not only necessary that he should have faith,
but all present must have faith, in his power as
well, or the chances were he would strike the
bottom. A show of hands was then taken, and all
assembled declared they had full faith upon which
the artful Joe observed: “As you all have faitn
in my power it is no use tempting Providence for
a sign.”—after which he trooped off with a long-
legged elder, who said he knew where there
was a “durned good place for flshin’.’ This is
painfully like the anecdote told of one Nasr-Eddin
the Hodja, or Turkish abb<s, who flourished dur-
ing the rouseabout days of Timour the Tartar.
The first time this Hodja, who was a sort of Rabe-
lais in his way, rose up to preach, he said: O
true believers 1 do you know what I am about to
say?” "Yes,” roared the smart congregation.
“ All right, then,” returned Mr. Nasr; “ there’s no
use my saying anything more about it,” Next
day, however, the same question was put, and the
people shouted “No,” upon which the preacher
replied, “ Well, if you don’t it’s no use talking to
such a set of ignoramuses.” On the third day, the
faithful determined to corner the jocular Hodja,
and when he fired off his usual query, the answer
was, “Some of us know, and some dont. Is
that so ?” exclaimed Nasr. ‘ Well, let those who
know tell those who don't, while I go round and
take up the collection.” Mr. Jones second joke at
Joe Smith’s expense was better, and it turned on
the time when the arch-humbug entered his pulpit
and announced that the Holy Ghost would now
descend on his head in the form of a dove. As no
signs of the dove appeared, however, Joe repeated
his announcement in a much louder tone of voice.
This happened for the fifth time, when suddenly
a trap door above the preacher’s head opened, and
instead of a milk-white dove a coal-black darkey s
head was thrust down as the owner shouted:
“Mass’r, I guess dat descent business wont
come off terday. Der dam cat hez gone an eat
yer pidgin.” And then Joseph came out of that
pulpit with the subdued air of a naan who had just
been rapped over the head with the butt end of a
pew cushion.
Mr. (now Sir James) Martin.
Apropos of the very flattering estimate formed by
Mr. Froude of the character and abilities of the
present Chief Justice of New South Wales, the
following letterpress, which, about a quarter of a
century since, appeared in Mr. Frank Fowler’s
magazine, The Month, as an accompaniment to a
portrait now also here reproduced,will doubtless be
of much interest to a large circle of our readers:—
“THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.
“ Who touches his hat to a great man without
being compelled ? The Lilliputians didn’t un-
cover, until Gulliver sneezed off their castors. No
doubt the little men then made a merit of the
circumstance, and having ttafeir hats at their feet
threw them into the air for the honour and glory
of Gulliver. We bow to our distinguished com-
peers, because unless we admit a man who has
Stepped before us to be something more than
ordinary—something worthy to be bowed to—we
admit ourselves to be something less. Otherwise,
how is he before us ? If all men understood that,
it would drive Envy and her ill-conditioned brood
out of the woild at once. But few do understand
it. The shallow blockhead cries: ‘ Yonder fellow
who lords it over us, went to school with me.
Amiable Mediocrity, we answer, if yonder fellow,
then, isn’t a,genius how very low in the class you
must have etbod. Ah I but subsequent circum-
stance Pshaw! Circumstance is a right fool’s
word I Circumstance w,on’t make a great chandler
—it certainly won’t make a great Man. Depend
upon it, Circumstance neither puts you behind,
nor yonder ‘ruler and judge’ in front. Circum-
stance is a ball to be kicked, and only children
and cravens run out of its way. In our misan-
thropy we have notice! with a gloomy satisfaction
how little spontaneous homage is paid to the great
men of this country. Whatever tribute is given is
wrenched and extorted. And so it ever is in a
small community. If a prophet hath no honour in
his own country, it is hardly reasonable of him to
expect it in his own township. Drop Mr. James
Martin on the carpet of St. Stephen’s and he will
make a figure and a reputation. And to do this he
need not be dependent, like Mr. Lowe, on the
Times newspaper, or any other adventitious aid.
He’ll make himself heard and his powers respected
by his own natural force of character, his clear-
headed perception (amounting almost to an In-
stinct), his fervid eloquence, and last, but of a
surety not least, his glorious self-trust. He relies
and rests on his ability as a warrior on his spear.
It is amusing to a degree to *see how the men who
dislike Mr. Martin are forced to run after him. All
the little pedlars in the House, down to Mr. Forster
himself, would give him a retainer in case of their
ever being called upon to forma Ministry. The
Liberals, while hating him most cordially, can’t
get on without him, although no one entertains a
moment’s doubt that he is as rampant a Conserva-
tive as ever fulminated a ‘post-prandial’ at the
Carlton. In fact, it is impossible to carry on a
political war without—
This summer bird, this noble Westmoreland.
‘The ancient Florentines,’ says dear old Mon-
taigne, ‘ before they drew their army into the
field, rung a bell they called Martinella.’ Mr.
Martin appears to walk through the world with a
brief. The horsehair protrudes its sharp points
through all he does. His faith is essentially legal:
there is but one James Martin, and his four col-
leagues are his juniors! His very appearance
carries us back to Lincoln’s Inn. He has the smug
well-fed look of the successful English lawyer-
the man who, like old Tulkinghorn, takes his
bottle of '33 vintage a day. His face is round aud
red; his eyes sharp and vivid; his form massive
and heavy; and his head solid and compact. His
double chin adds a stone-weightto his appearance;
be is (with the exception of the vulgar man who
wears the green-plaid coat) the clumsiest dresser
In tbe House; and his voice runs and rattles like
the pouring out of leaden shot. Donaldson’s voice
now is just like fruity port gurgling from a very
small hole in a very big barrel. The Attorney-
General’s style is only to be described by one word
"cumulative. A subtle penetration enablcs;him to
get at the core of a question, and upon this he
Piles argument upon argument, illustration upon
illustration, until every objection of his hearers is
Ultimately ridden down. He has the forensic
trick, in fact, of browbeating the mind into sub-
mission. Neither his arguments nor his illustra-
tions have much variety. It is a single ray of light
*hown through a parallelopipedon of crystal. Mr.
Martin is within one year of a native. He was
born in Ireland on the 14th of May, 1820, and came
to' N.S.W. m mng clothes. He was taught his
otters at a dame’s school, Parramatta. He subse-
quently attended several academies; but appears
to have received the principal part of his eduoa-
tion under the tutorship of Mr. Cape. On choos-
ing the legal profession he was articled to the late
Mr. Nicholls, and originally practised, we believe,
in the police courts. Mr. Martin has dabbled a
little in letters. Many years ago he published a
book of essavs—running over ground from the
‘ Coliseum at Rome ’ to ‘ Botany Bay ’—which, like
most Australian books of that period, was sad
twaddle. He subsequently started a magazine
which turned out a failure. When the Atlas was
established he largely contributed to its columns,
and by the dash and point of his articles proved
himself a journalist of no mean powers. He was
ultimately appointed the editor of the paper,
which he conducted most ably for two years. In
1851 he wrote but only for a very short
time—for the Empire. Mr. Martin married
well. He has also attained to a successful
and extensive practice as a barrister. He has a
young family, and has of late cultivated all those
social qualities and refined habits which render a
man, as a man, an honour to the position —how-
ever distinguished it may be—to which he has
attained. We can pay to the Attorney-General
this high and special compliment—Prosperity has
ripened his better qualities as the sun ripens wall-
fruit.”
In spite of all remonstrance, Hon. John
James, Acting-Minister of Mines of Victoria,
ordered the removal of a diamond-drill from
Sebastopol to Ballarat East, his own electorate.
But Colonel Smith, who is mad at seeing John
drawing a salary as Minister when all the world
knows that he, William Collard Sa-mith, is the only
possible Minister of Mines, rallied some friends
around him, tore off to Melbourne, and made such
a frantic appeal to Premier Gillies that the order
was countermanded when the drill was half way
on its destination. We’d like to be present at the
interview when John strokes his beard, strolls
into the Premier’s office, and asks quietly “ What’s
this little game, Duncan ? ” and to hear Duncan
shuffle out of it. Gillies is an old Balfflrat West
miner. John is of the East; Colonel Smith—of
any point of the compass that promiseth office.
In a recent speech the Marquis of Salisbury-
said that “an extensive system of land purchase
would hunt every country gentleman out of Ire-
land, which would be left with avast uninstructed
peasantry governed by a hierarchy that is not too
wise. If they once adopted Home Rule—that is to
say. if they once relinquished their power in Ire-
land-they might depend upon it that whatever
else Ireland did, she would not pay. They might
advance millions upon millions, they might take
the most sacred promises, but if they once relin-
guished the solid hold of power they might write
off those investments as if they had been-sub-
scribed to the maintenance of the Mexican Re-
public.” As against this hopeless prospect, we
read in the London Echo that although upon the
Disestablishment of the Irish Church the tenants of
the glebe lands entered into a bargain which, as Mr.
Morley admits, was “a bad and unprofitable one,”
only £34,000 is now in arrears on account of instal-
ments of purchase-money aggregating £1,674,000.
“ These figures,” said Mr. Fowler recently,
“ which were brought before me at the Treasury,
as also those showing the manner m wh'ch the
said loans had been repaid, perfectly astounded
me, and showed that where public money had
been advanced to Irish tenants, it had been repaid
with an honesty, integrity, and promptitude which
contrasted very favourably with loans made to
any other portion of the Empire.” It seems to us
quite possible that Mr. Gladstone arranged for the
purchase of the glebe lands as a test of the possi-
bility r;of inaugurating the huge reform of the
Irish land system whioh he has lately proposed,
just as in proposing to abolish hereditary legisla-
tion in Ireland, he may be taking a preliminary
step towards a similar reform throughout the
Empire.
Wolfe's Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
Invigorate the system with Wolfe's
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
Political
Poits
Ife was Mr. Terry, M.L.C., who did the
strategy in the count-out of the N.S.W. Divorce
Extension Bill. When Terry had gained his point
he called attention to the state of the House, and
then vanished.
La France does not see in what the sys-
tem which is dying in England amid popular con-
vulsions is better than Russian Czarism. It has
formed a brutal population, which thinks political
rights mean the right to pillage in the name of the
Law.
Theebaw, now “provided for,” was the
head of the Buddhist body in Burmah, and the
poor disciples now find themselves without a
spiritual head. They have applied to the Emperor
of China to assume the headship. As the sole hope
of the Buddhist is to attain at death Nirvana-
utter and eternal extinction and forgetfulness -
there is a fine opening here for Mr. Water-Jug
Foster, or some other politician out of office to
apply for the billet.
Memo, for the Sydney friends of Colonel
Dow:—“Does prohibition prohibit?” says the
Nation. “Let Maine answer. The total number
of persons committed to gaol in that State during
1885 was 3395, of whom 188 were sentenced for sell-
mg' liquors, an increase of ,38 over 1884, and 1761
for drunkenness an increase of 441 over 1884.
The English Democracy are becoming
worse than the Irish. London Echo now says:—
“ IS is significant, after the discussion on the man-
ner in wnieh the Queen’s health was received at a
recent banquet, that at the Liberal meeting in the
Cor»i aught Hall at the Albert Palace last night
(March 3) prior to the opening of the proceedings,
when the National Anthem was played on the
organ, its strains were greeted with groans and
hisses, mingled with a few cheers.”
The men of Qundagai, N.S.W., are wise in
their generation. They elected an Attorney-
General as their member, and now we learn from
the local Times that “notwithstanding the deficit
and retrenchment ” he has managed to touch the
Treasury for “ £4OO for abridge over Jones' Greet,
and £6OO for improving Cookamaroo Hill.” Mr.
Want's views concerning direct taxation and the
improvement of Cookamaroo Hill ” are such as
to endear him to his constituents. “ Cookamaroo ’
Jack I
N.S.W. in 1885 spent £BO in the purchase of
“ chevrons and embroidery,” wherewith to deck
her gorgeous colonels. This year £l6O is required,
which is another proof the military spirit has
taken a firm hold of the people of the colony.
Let it be cabled home that our decorated de-
fenders require this year a double supply of
“ chevrons and embroidery,” and it will be safe to
wager that Bismarck will hesitate to carry out his
policy of annexation in theJPaciflo. It might even
make him give up New Guinea I
David Gaunson, M.L.A., is denounced by
all the Melbourne dailies. Yqt they hurt him not.
They enter into a “ conspiracy of silonco” respect-
ing his speeches—and the electors triumphantly
return him to Parliament. Whenever he makes a
telling speech the Age report says: “After a few
remarks from Mr. Gaunson.” Naturally, there-
fore, Gaunson urges the establishment of a daily
Hansard as in Queensland. “ What right,” he
asks, “ has David Syme, the proprietor of a print-
ing-machine, to burke free speech and boss Par-
liament ? He has no more right than the proprie-
tor of a sausage-machine.”
C. E.f Jones, in his last lecture at Sydney
Masonic Hall, gave Dan. O’Connor, who was on
: the stage, an awkward drive by satirically refer-
ing to the patriotism and self-devotion of M.P.’s,
and the small amount of talk some of them used
in the House and elsewhere. “ I know members,”
said C.E., “who never rise to speak unless they are
compelled to, and whose devotlou for their coun-
try makes them speak then only of it and not of
themselves.” The audience saw the drive was
intended for Danny, but that astute individual
joined them in applauding the sentiment as if
totally oblivious of the fact that it referred to him.
The Sydney Echo, which adores people in
authority, quite unnecessarily remarks—in a
leader, too—that Sir Alfred Stephen “is the last
man in Australia to violate any of the great prin-
ciples of Christianity, or to open the door to loose-
ness and immorality.” Then our contemporary
hysterically asks: “Is there any action of Sir
Alfred Stephen’s life which suggests that he be-
lieves that politicians are ‘to lay aside their
Christian faith and obedience when they deal witn
political legislation?’ ” Yes, O Echo. Where under
the Christian dispensation does your well-pen-
sioned god find his authority for hanging
criminals ?
Says the feeble Graphic on Socialism—
“ Among its causes are the harshness and indi-
vidual isolation produced by the life of great
cities; the artificial wants which civilisation
causes the poor to feel as well as the rich, and
which sharpen the tooth of envy; the gulf be-
tween riches and pauperism which has been
widened by the industrial developments of the
last hundred years, and lastly the growing disin-
clination to believe in a state of future retribu-
tion ” (!) It is not stated which side is getting the
more loth to believe in hell. We think it must
be the rich, who do not want to monopolise too
much space down below. “ The real antidote,”
says the feeble old driveller, is “the practical
adoption by all of us, of self-control, and consider-
ation for the welfare of others.” Weil, who’s going
to start and lower rents ?
There is something farcical about the re-
signations—all carefully cabled to the Australian
daily Press—resulting from the Grand Old Man’s
declaration of his Irish policy. Mr. Heneage, for
instance, has—in his own estimation—shaken the
world by throwing up the Chancellorship of the
Duchy of Lancaster. The post is a sinecure, and
the wealthy nonentity who held it might jump
into the 1 names without in any way diminishing
the brain-power of the country he loves so well.
The Bari of Cork, too, has signified his addle-pated
displeasure with his patron by resigning the
Mastership of the Horse. This is awful. But the
most erushing blow of all is the refusal of the
Duchess of Roxburghe to toil and sweat as—great
Scott I—Mistress oftthe Robes, under the adminis-
tration of such a perjured traitor as Gladstone; If
the old ’un has any sense of propriety left, he will
pause in his mad career. Otherwise we shall have
the Royal Falconer, the Women of the Bed-
chamber, and the Beefeaters at the Tower of
London chucking up their billets and leaving
England to its miserable fate.
Can’t fire off a single loyal cheer, or give
lip to a solitary patriotic British sentiment, can’t
we? Listen: Victoria is now sovereign over one
continent—yes, the great continent of Australia-
-100 500 promontories, 1000 lakes, 2000
rivers, and 10,000 islands. She waves her hand; or
rather her Ministers wave it for her, and 500,000
warriors march to glory or the grave. The said
Ministers bend her head, and at that signal 1000
ships of |war,! and 100,000 sailors prepare to rule
the waves with a British ruler. Victoria walks
upon the earth, and 120,000,000 of human beings
feel the pressure of her number nines as plainly as
if John Lucas had trod on their corns while walking
hurriedly to the land-resumption court. If she
raises a gumboil, the sad tidiDgs are flashed to
every corner of the world, and a sudden attack of
indigestion is enough to raise a financial panic
from Kerguelen’s Land to the North Pole. Great
Britain is the biggest thing in the way of king-
doms this world ever saw. The Assyrian empire
was not so wealthy. The Roman empire was not
so populous. The Persian empire was not so ex-
tensive. The Arabian empire was not so powerful.
The Carthaginian empire was not so much dreaded.
The Spanish empire was not so widely diffused.
And yet its present ruler rarely speaks anything
but German, and even poets have to pay cash
down for their beers. Dieu et mon droit, and pass
the corkscrew.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
“COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inqtiity—
-371a Pltt-stroet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE 99
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine^
33Z
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos,
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


HIATUS ROYAL.
Under tbe direction of
(eurfl. 'WiLiiiAMBOK, Gahnbb and MuSGROVI.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Gen.L- Goodman.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. H. H. Vincent.
SEVENTH WEEK and Continued Succ’ssof
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUSGKOVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, APRIL 22,
at a quarter to 8 precisely,
FIFTH REPRESENTATION IN AUSTRALIA
of tbe thrilling sensational drama, in six acts,
Written by PAUL MERRITT (part author of “The
World,” “ New Babylon,” &c.) and GEORGE
CONQUEST, entitled
THE CRIMES OF PARIS.
Dress Circle.ss.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Cirole, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
In active preparation, THE MAGISTRATE
G
AIBTY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
; Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
28ih WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
AN ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
EVERYBODY DELIGHTED.
FUN, FAST and FURIOUS.
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
EVERY EVENING until further notice, will be
produced the Farcial Comedy, in three actr,
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
Manager for Mr. Dampier FRED. GUNTHER.
OAD B M Y (Tf MUSIC.
Bole Proprietor and Manager ’.. F. E. Hiscoeka.
3rd YEAR. 3rd
And still the popular and Faibionabls Resort.
Once again we record another Great Hit of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HIbCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Specialty UnioD.
Terminating with W. H. Bent’s burlesque drama,
THE YELLOW NOVEL HEROES.
Good Friday Evening, SACRED CONCERT, by
Hiscock’s Federal Minstrels.
J^YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR.
Young—Sat, Monday, Tuesday, April 24, 26, 27.
Cootamundra, Junee, Wagga, to follow.
Admission—4?., 23.. and 2s.
Doors open at 7 30, overture at 8.
JAMES SMITfT,
H. E. BARNES,
[ Agents.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16 th April, 1886.
MAP OF NATIONAL PARK
(Easter Military Encampment).
ON SALE at the following Land Offloos, viz :
Sydney, Liverpool. Campbelltown, and Wol-
longong, the following Lithographic Map.
PhiCE, One Shilling.
SKETCH GUIDE MAP, NATIONAL PARK.
P. F. ADAMS,
Suiveyor-General.
E
VBBYBODY l
SHOULD USB f
FEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FXiOtm
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
tn a Mill replete with the newest and most approve*'
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
FLOUR MILL.
SSI Ceorve-street, Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, syoney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT ROW GOOD I
m
FLEMING’S
WA66ONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIRSMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Spring's,
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
TS
00
OOTS
T. VIIt LIAiS ft CO.,
ISiro::,TEBS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES ■
A'to, Macufrc'urcjs of
The finest quality of Good, in the above lines.
278 and 412 Sydney.
S3OH
OH
S 3
cv\>>
ol FLgjfo
FOR KE
HQ
)2£ h\£4- \ c/c3>r&f7Cp
s
JM
?s
A
mm
~ rfcr y
ussr-
)
A
/ \
/ ' N
'“N
3
x .
Wr
X-vV
4KU
V- v
%i
w
a
//'.\js*r_
;^v
A -/ > \
. //
F;
*
: rf**
‘ »
mHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
JL George-street, Haymarket.
Leasee and Director ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBKA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
* UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
baloony. Is.
Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7 o’clock.
ICTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
GRENFELL'S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Speolal Engagement of the Eminent Actor,
Mr. W. H. LEAKE,
supported by a powerful Dramatic Company, in-
cluding the following acknowledged Artists:—
Miss Ethel Adele Mr. F. C. Appleton
Miss Bessie Vivian Mr. Roy Grenfell
Miss Hettle Lambrettp Mr. J. J. Hasker
Miss Josie Turnbull Mr. Sam. Poole
Mr. 8. Stanley Mr. A. Maitland
Mr. C. F. Searle Mr. C. Ed .yards
Mr. Frank Fowler.
Commencing
SATURDAY 24*m APRIL.
THREE GUARDSMEN.
En route for Brisbane.
OPENING NIGHT, MAY 10th.
Leader of Orchestra j Mr. Frank Fowler.
Advance Agent .. Mr. C. F. Searle.
FOLLY'S SYDNtY GYMNASIUMT
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, Ac., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
DO B B Y N S’ HALL,
Junee Junction.
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
Exhibition building,
Prince Alfred Park.
THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
Commer c'ng on S IT’URDAY, April 24.
OPEN DAILY at 2 and 7.
EASTER MONDAY—OPEN at 10, 2. and 7.
A NOVEL, EXHIBITION OF
THE ARTS,
MANUFACTURES,
AMUSEMENTS,
and the
INDUSTRIES OF JAPAN.
Mslo and Female ARTISANS,
ia their native costumes,
manufacturing their wares,
embracing Cloisonne Enamel (the oelebrated
Shippo work), Porcelain-making (Satsuma ware),
Fan-making, Ivory carving, Lacquer Work, Cabi-
net-making, Porcelain-painting, Wood carving,
Kakemono-painting, Screen-making, Embroider-
ing; Bamboo, Vase, and Stick-carving; Ivory and
Pearl Inlaying. Doll-dressing. Fancy Silk Work
(a hundred different kinds), Fan and Umbrella
Painting, Boxmaking and Carpentering, Bamboo
Work, Lantern-making, Hairdressing, and JaDan-
ese Photography. Each artisan in a perfect
Japanese house.
A JAPANESE TEAHOUSE, attended by a bevy
of Japanese Beauties and tiamshecn Players. Tea
dispensed free to visitors by these fascinating
attendants.
THE KUJOMIDZU TEMPLE,
in which are the Colossal Idols of Daibutz, the
Godd-ss Benten-Fudo, Amida, Sod jo Kuwanon,
&c, &c.; Temple Bells, Iron Lanterns, Kake-
monos, &j. Rel gious Ceremonies Daily.
GROUPS OF LIFE-SIZE FIGURES,
made in Kioto, the sacred City of Dal Nippon,
illustrative of Ancient and Modern Japan.
THE SHEBAYA.
Performancss Daily, supported by Techwari,
Skartaro, Taaejow, Tetsono, Ohnosuki, Kinj iw,
Tachibana, Kio, Kowma, and the Beautiful
OMUME, who will walk and perform with bare
feet on Bwords as Sharp as Razors.
Beautiful Cherry and Peach Trees in lull bloom.
The Great Pagoda Umbrellas.
THE SYDNEY MUSICAL CORPS BAND,
Uonductor : HERR PATEK.
Admiesion. Two Shillings ; Children half-price,
This admits to everyihing in the Village—no
second charge.
Sole Director, PEMBERTON W. WILLARD.
Business Manager, H. P. LYONS.
AN AMUSING BOOK.— Don’t Fail to Get It,
gsd
CONTAINfNGIOO
Tricks and Delu-
sions with caris, and 25
marvellous coin tricks,
fully explained, for the
performance of wbici
only a common pack of
cards and the coins of
the realm are requisite.
Alpo, a larffe collection
of Kiddles, Charades, &o,
and illustrations of
200 Marvellous Tricks
with conjurmir appara-
tus. all explained and
made simple. Also, a
Catalogue of English. American, and French
Novelties, Games, Toys, &c.. covering over 200
pages, and illustrated with 400 woodblooks. Botn
books mailed free for Us N.B.W. stamps, or Is. Id.
in stamps of other colonies. Address M. PLANT,
fP.O. Box 641) 401 George-street, Sydney.
Wq invite Inspect on of ou* Large a d Varied Stock of ail
civ ses of Furni ure.
I
&
§5
xQ
i', 'Mil 1
2^
BSSW
"7/
m
m
/<V J
■S\
fS
Vi.-?
<b
mu
Th above is a sample of our 30-guinea complete Drawing-room Suite, consisting
of (ouch, 6 Chairs and 2 Arm Chairs in solid Walnut Frames, and covered in any
colour Worsted Kep, cornice Pole and Brackets, Pair of Lace Curtains, Pair Lustres,
Gilt Pier Glhss, Whatnot, Occasional Table, Marble Top Side Board with Plate Gla ; 's
Back ai d Doors, Handsome Clock, w a lnut centre Table. Fendpr and Fire Irons,
Hearth Rug, Carpet for room i 2 x 11, Pair Curtain Bands and Lamp.
CAMPBELrBROTHERS,
BOYAL FURNISHING ABoADE,
426 CEORGB STREET (next to t(ie RoyaJ Hotel.)


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TfISAVBI ROYAL-“ Crimea of Paris ” p.
Gaiety Theatre—“ The Great Pink Pearl ” „
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
Academy oe Music.— Federal Minstrels
Exhibition Building—Japanese Village „
“ Maritana” at the Sydney Opera House
is to be taken off just as we were almost be-
ginning to like it. For it is the kind of perform-
ance for which like olives, 81aden’s poetry, and
Barnet's sculping on the Sydney Post Office, one
has to acquire a taste. Appreciation of such
things is not natural to most men. They have to
make many wry faces, and evolve more or less
perseverance before the time comes when they
really enjoy them. Yet with all that this “ Mari-
tana ” is not positively ajbad, although certainly a
very uneven performance. There is a consider-
able amount of joyous gratification to be ex-
tracted from it, but, on the other hand, there are
some points which discount the effect to an alarm-
ing extent. And Wallace's opera is one that must
be well played all round to make it boom any more
than a penny cracker, for, being;Bo familiar to the
theatre habitui that ail the characters are old ac-
quaintances, any shortcomings are at once re-
marked to the detriment of the performance, so
that the production is very much judged by its
weakest parts.
* * *
“ Maritana ” was not by any means writ-
ten with a view to the capabilities of ,the present
company,' but Doin itesar might well have
been written to Charles Harding’s order, for the
music, and business fit him with exactness.of a
Kirby coffin. His Don Cmiar is so good that it
is really a pity he cannot keep it on throughout
•‘Bobaail,” which follows “Maritana” on Satur-
day. We throw this out as a suggestion to the
management, and are inclined to believe they will
throw it out also. Grade Plaisted makes only a
moderate success of the title role, for there is in
it but Tittle scope for the scintillating diablerie
with which she generally manages to fetch the
house; nor did Don compare to very great ad-
vantage with a few we have seen in the part.
He kept with the orchestra magnificently in the
level funning, but when they came to the hurdles
be was not heard at his best. As a host he is a
rank fraud. He orders a banquet, giving carte-
blanche as to expense, for not lees than 30 persons,
and then seems satisfied when the caterer runs in
a narrow table, two empty bottles, and six glasses.
He submits to this imposition in the calmest pos-
sible manner, and rather seems to like being "had”
that way, which of course alienates any sympathy
the audience may have previously feit with him.
The King of Spain exposes himself to similar con-
tempt by the excessively wooden manner in which
he woos the fair Gitana. He should be careful
about this, for love-makiDg i* a thing of
which all are esmpetent critics. Any sort
of action may do wiih such a thing as
saraband dancing, which is not indigenous
to the soil, but love is cosmopolitan and
common enough at that, so must be done with
scrupulous attention to detail. An actor who
spoons with less ardour than he would display in
attacking the mid-day hash, is only a subject for
derision. Miss Williams was the Marchioness, but
hardly made herself ugly and wrinkled enough for
the part and its attendant gagging. It can only be
said in mitigation of her appearance that it would
take a lot to make her ugly and wrinkled; in fact,
as far as this role is concerned, her beauty is an
irremediable fault. Which is a neat little compli-
ment wherewith to bring this par. to a happy con-
clusion.
•* * *
“ The Crimes 6f Paris” still runs at Sydney-
Royal. The murderous development of the play
is exquisitely gratifying to some, though only
tolerable to otners. These latter are a difficult
part of the community to cater for. They affect
to be the embodiments of taste. The glitter of a
knife shocks them. The cutting ot a throat
makes thorn turn away. Each owns an ethereally
jesthetic stomach and sickens easily. While sick
ne is lugubriously plaintive about the coarseness
of the diet. There is no class with more affecta-
tion in it than this. But there is more in it than
affectation. A reputable writer should keep his
eye upon it. Most of the realities of life are, it is
a saa truth, found in the gutters. They swirl
among slime, garbage, and fetid ooze. He is not,
however, a worthy workman who fins a tank with
this miscellaneous sewage, and when people .Bit
down turns the tap and spatters them all over.
• ■ •
This is where the gutter-writer differs
from the worthy writer. The former sits by his
tank He becomes as ill-smelling as the stuff he
taps. As a rule he is honest above the average,
and what he gives it would profit the world to
look at and think about. But he omits to reckon
that though he has most of the facts of life in his
tank he has not all. Unless all lives were gutter-
jives all the gutter facts in existence would not
represent human life. If a writer invite every-
body to look at his play and play only for a sec-
tion he should not complain of complaints.
Therefore, notwithstanding the large measure of
affectation those who like to be considered supe-
rior persons carry about, they merit to have their
views attended to, in proportion to their num-
bers, just es the idiosyncrasies of the gods
are considered. As a matter of art, the greater a
man s possession of the realities of lower liie, the
greater, whether he be novelist, dramatist, or
orator should be his imaginative power. A crude
story of horrors is a low achievement. No one
likes looking at ugly things. Crimes, sufferings,
evils are alt ugly. A deformed man, only for the
soul’that looks through Ms eyes, would make
people turn their backs. When crime is exhibited
it should be lighted up with imagination. Many
coloured fires should blaze around. Otherwise,
the novel, the play, the oration, is only a big piece
of uglintS3. It has no soul.
* * *
Merritt and Conquests’ work is not of this
class It is far from it. But it suggests relation-
ship It sweep* no high plain. It is large, strong,
powerful, as crime is, by brute force, by rapid
boldness, by heartless ferocity. It is not genius.
It is not talent of the Royal kind. The light iu it
has been thrown there by the scenic artists. Only
by spontaneous combustion could it create
It, has a nadir but no zenith.
* ■ *
Mr. Greville’s Joshua Johnson possesses
much grotesque humour. It is superficial but
hearty One 01 the most carefully played parts is
that of Jacques Martel. There is a good deal of
work in it. The little boy had to conduct himself
fittingly under good fortune and bad fortune, and
along the sliding scale between the two. This
part Miss Sherwood succeeds in working through
With more than average merit.
4. * *
Another change in the programme of
Bella Sutherland’s Victual Spark Combination at
1 ho Sydney Olympic, took place on Saturday night.
The tlret part of the programme consisted mostly
of songs comic, sentimental, patriotic, and
slushy, through which the company wandered
without eliciting much hilarious applause. The
speciality business, by which some of the members
during the flrßt weeks of the company’s run im-
hiortaiiBed themselves, was conspicuous by its
Absence—a reason wby the public may now look
forward to the marked decrease in the number of
suicides After the refreshment interval, H. J.
Byron’s burlesque of ‘‘Fra Diavolo” held the
boards for the rest of the evening. The periorm-
ance may be summed up by saying that it didn’t
tuu neany as briskly as a pauper s funeral, end
Was not half so amusing. The only artistes who
fuse above the level of mediocrity were Bella her-
Mf, Grace Follande, Fred. Dark, and Harry
Bower, the other ladies and gentlemen who had
harts distinguishing themselves by showing an
entire want of ability in the way of making their
Parts pleasingly conspicuous. A topical song,
entitled “ Jolly Good Business,” written by Mr.
"avis, a member of the combination, was intro-
duced into the burlesque, but judging from the
reception it got from the audience, we think it
Unlikely that a future generation will bo much
troubled with it. The talented orchestra of three,
under the leadership of Mr. Schiedel, had a hard
tussle with the music, their movements at times,
especially the leader’s, being deoidedly erratic, but
they made a tremendous effort at the close of the
performance, and wound up level with the singers.
** * *
“ The Great Pink Pearl ” continues to be
the bill at the Sydney Gaiety, and the local verdict
on the piece is an endorsement of the approbation
of English audiences, a fact which must be exceed-
ingly gratifying to its authors.
** * *
The Japanese Village on arrival of the
date of this issue will be pretty nearly complete.
We went to meet the Japs on arrival and are will-
ing to make our affidavit that none of them say
“begorra,” and that none are native to Woolloo-
mooloo. All sorts of side-shows are appurtenant to
the main attraction, and a few of the Jap. girls are
lovely enough to knock the sawdust off the aver-
age chorus-girl. And, in connection with this,
we would warn all and sundry that any person
bringing in jokes to this office about “nice little
chaps’’—meaning, of course, “Japs”—will be
promptly brained by order of the correspondence
editor.
•# • a
The Campanological Lynches are still root-
ing round the southern towns of N.S.W. in search
of gold and glory, and have fair success in obtain-
ing each. We hear from a private source that the
residents of Bungaroobie being unable to obtain a
town clock from a too parsimonious Government,
decided to revolt, and offered the crown to Harry
Lynch, but his reply was that while there was a
florin or a cow-bell in the country no crown had
any charm for him unless it was of mint issue.
Young is marked out for piilage on Saturday and
two following nights.
*# * *
Fryer’s show, the Equescurriculum, did
booming business at Brisbaae, leaving that torrid
town for Maryborough (Q.) on the 19th April.
After spoiling the Egyptians who live in Northern
Queensland, the show goes to Batavia, returning
to Sydney about September next. It will be thus
nearly six months ere they return, but we will not
be altogether bereft of amusement in the interval,
for the Presbyterian Synod meets shortly.
* * * *
Dan. Barry and his company played at
Maryborough (Q.) up to the 14th April, to more
than average business. The lovely Phil. Stuart is
A LAWYER’S SON.
FATHER: “TOMMY, IF YOU CONFESS THAT YOU BROKE THAT WINDOW I WILL NOTS
PUNISH YOU THIS TIME.”
TOMMY: “IF I OWN THAT I BROKE IT I’LL TELL A LIE, AND IF I DON’T SAY THAT
I DID IT I’LL GET LICKED. I S’POSE I’D BETTER SAY I DID IT AND THROW
MYSELF ON THE MERCY OF THE COURT!”
his leading man, and we are told that Dan.’s fare-
well addresses referring to the splendor of the
town and the beauty of its inhabitants, are as near
perfection as art and a dictionary can make them.
—The Faust family were at Rockhampton on the
10th inst., but have now gone further north
Woodyear’s circus opens at Brisbane about Easter.
* * *
At Melbourne Opera House “ Rip Van
Winkle” has been enjoying a sober innings of
three or four weeks. That is to say, without
making any very big hit “Rip” has contrived to
play out time, and keeps tne house warm until
“Falka” andtbe Southern hemisphere are fully
prepared for one another. The 24th is named as
that happy day. a galaxy of youth, beauty, and
talent is engaged for “ Falka.” Young hearts are
beating fast and dimpled cheeks are blushing and
blanchiDg in anticipation ot the joy in store. For
in "Falka” the only Verdi makes his re-appear-
ance. Mr. Brough and Miss Trevelyan, too, are
going to add their taieot and beauty to the Opera
House commonwealth, and it is whispered that
Miss Emelie Melville gives the{flaishing touch to a
picture which has never, never been equalled and
only very occasionally surpassed on the English
stage. Beats for ‘Falka’’ may be booked six
weeks in ad vance. Think of that! There’s a good
run assured before the overture is played for the
first time.
* * #• «
The “ Mikado ” will run over Easter at
Melbourne Royal. Fashion has raised her potent
voice on hehalf of Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest
eccentricity. Looking at the proud and ’orty
countenances of the dress circleites one hardly
gets a fair idea of the inward spiritual joy ex-
perienced by the wearers. They waxed merrier
over “lolanthe,” or “Patience.” hut neverthe-
less 'tis a solemn article of faith in Melbourne
“ suckles ’’that “ Mikado ” is quite the very drollest
opera of any time. Yet a most depressing gloom
pervades the high-toned portion of the house.
Perhaps mirth is incompatible with advanced cul-
ture. We'll write to Oscar Wilde on the subject.
Among the performers Messrs. Vernon and Wood-
field show a growing tendency to enlarge upon the
author’s ideas. Mr. Vernon is particularly liberal
with embellishments-too liberal, in fact. All the
same, it mu9t be admitted that the Lord High
Executioner’s efforts gain the approbation of the
applauding portions of the house, and so lend
hilarity to the performance as a whole.
* * * *
The Majeronis open at Melbourne Bijou
on the 24th, in “ Elizabeth.” Gorgeous rumours
are floating about concerning this historical play.
The scenery is coming from Rome, and the
dresses from the uttermost ends of the earth.
The exact colour of good Queen Bess’s hair will
be faithfully re-produced by Signora Majeroni.
This is re-assuring. We have-seen the Yirgin
Queen in so many different wigs that we had des-
paired of ever knowing for certain whether the
real original locks were* yellower than burnished
gold, or redder than boiled beets. The triumvi-
rate season at the Bijou wound up with “Grim-
aldi,” and a final week of the “ Private Secretary.”
Oh, and there was Mr. Boucicault’s benefit. He
and his sister, alas! are about quitting these
shores, and there is woe among the mashers, and
weeping among the florists. Miss Nina’s Mel-
bourne engagements gave a decided fillip to the
local bouquet industry.
** * *
A good many old colonists will be re-
juvenated by the intelligence that the once-
renowned Tamberlik is carolling in Italian opera at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, London. Tamberlik, a
well-seasoned songster of 66, is engaged as leading
tenor. In such giddy young characters as Faust
the veteran should be especially fetching, and we
hope that some of our “ old identities ” home for
the Exhibition will have an opportunity of hear-
ing the voice that ravished their ear before they
set out for Australy in the good ship Great Britain
30 or 40 years ago.
♦# # #
“The Lord Mayor of London wrote the
other day: “ I regard the conduct of the Govern-
ment in this matter as absolutely inhuman.” The
handwriting was bad, and the intelligent comp.,
after a solemn stagger, set it up; “I rarely can
compass a tale. My grandmother is the best nar-
rator of amusing incidents.” We also the other
day, when writing about the performance of
“Dark Days” at Sydney Royal, wrote: “Mr. H.
H. Yincent was a fop.” Our handwriting was
good. Yet the intelligent comp, staggered again
and set it up: “Mr. H. H. Vincent was a pup.”
Perhaps, however, it amounts to the same thing.
** * *
When a company recently was preparing
to put “Michael Strogoff” on at a New York
theatre, they advertised for 200 cats. Suspecting
this was for some new dodge in ads. a rival com-
pany stole the Michael Strogoff thunder by adver-
tising for 2000 of the felines, and the cat-stealers
and cat-owners of the city took their stock to the
market which announced the larger vacancy. All
day the Gat-buying went on, prices ranging from
twopence to sixpence a head. As soon as the
supply was exhausted, each cat was adorned with
a piece of blue ribbon bearing: the name of the
play, and, the doors being opened, an avalanche
of eats tumbled out into the street. “Many a dog,”
says an exchange describing the scene that ensued,
“ eDjoyed an exciting piece of sport, and many a
sausage-manufacturer returned thanks for the
thoughtful beneficence of the strolling players.”
Which goes to prove that N.Y. sausages are un-
reliable when there is active competition in dra-
matic circles.
YE TERRIBLE TALE OF YE SHOPGIRL, AND
YE CHURCH SOPRANO.
Belinda Brown was her name, and she was a
bride of 32 months and a day. We wish to be par-
ticular with this chunk of imformatlon, because,
as Garden Honey would say, Tempm fugit, and
moment by moment the days grow shorttr with
us all. The truth of this assertion may not burst
on our readers in full bloom at once, but it will
gradually grow upon them in a style that oannot
be forgotten. To return to our mutton, however,
Belinda Brown had a voice that could bore a hole
in a seven-inch plank, and snorted louder than the
snore of a Ministerial stonewaller when an Oppo-
sition member is doing a spell of “stonewalling.”
Selina Smith was the shop-girl’s name, and she
sang in the same choir as the blastiferous Brown,
but she had an organ so sweet that she could coax
down sparrows off a telegraph line to listen to it.
Consequently the. e was a North Pole coolness be-
tween the pair. By some strange, and wholly un-
accountable means, it came to Belinda's 6x4 ears
that the summer shopping season had“arrove.”
It was the festive season when nothing but the
bob-tail top knot of the calico elerkess is seen
above the festive shop-keeper’s board, and tower-
ing pile of mousseline de laines, and pates-ae-foie-
gras, and the like, cause the millinery counters to
groan beneath their jackass loads, when Belinda
trooped into the emporium in which Selina was
engaged, and after giving her silvery-throated
rival a ton of trouble looking for something “just
a shade lighter,” was hauied up short by Selina’s
delicate hint: “I would try this remnant if I were
you, Mrs. Brown—it hides the dirt so admirably.”
“ Base wretch thou diest in one act to hurdy-gurdy
music,” exclaimed Belinda, and then stabbing
Belinda fatally dead with a hairpin she strangled
herself with her own garter, ana being rich, died
“respected by all who knew her.” Country
papers please copy, and likewise add that all the
hide-covering a prudent mamma requires to do
for her boys to-day oan be done at the boss
Juvenile Outfitters, Summerfield and Co., 235 and
231 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Brandies and Whiskies are not at all as well
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883).
IMPORTERS OF
Finl-tk WATCHES
/ ‘V ‘
K- . ' $ *) T ‘ r
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIEB.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 4/-
Seal ... 47-
Bracelet. 8/-
A ■* io/-
„ 12/-
147-
.. 16/-
Sov. Purse 47-
Match Box 47-
Scarf Pin.. 2/-
i« 1.... 2/6
- « .... 37-
~ .... 47-
» .... 6/-
6/-
47-
Sen
Albert
Charm
Studs, f. set 37-
4/-
57-
67-
Keeper ... 2/6
Gem Ring 47-
Buckle „ 2/6
Diamond „ 67-
Brooch Set 5/-
.. 7/6
' .. 10/-
.. 16/-
CroFS, 47, 67, 6/-
Lochet, Ladies ~. 5/-
„ ..107-
.. 167-
Bangle ... ... 37-
Earrings .. .. 4/-
♦, m ... 67-
Albert .. ..16/-
207-
„ .. ... 26/-
Necklet .. ..57-
Watch (Ladies’).. 30/-
„ (Gent’s) .. 307-
Brooch, frm 1/3 to 10/-
forthe solid gold Gem Ring .... 8/6
Keeper „ .. 7/6
Wedding „ .. 7/6
Waltham
Watch £8 87-
.» ii .9
~ i, 10 0/-
~ „ II 11/-
Upto £5O.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
4 10/-
6 07-
6 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0/-
Send f_r the Silver Waltham Watch 3 10/-
3 0/-
3 107-
3 15/-
4 0/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS TflIS CHANCE.
A handsome Oriental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
an order for no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 474 George-street, opposite
the Markets. ?
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
fg
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.


BRIEF MENTION.
The pound keeper has sued the. Mayor of
Queanbeyan for £lOOO damages for slander. Wants
to be a thousand-poundkeeper.
The Return of the Hatchet.
From last War Crt “ Sisters Cowan and
XSarland sang a duet ‘Peace! be still.”’ May a
pitying Heaven give the Army strength to live up
to their duets!
Dr. Steel, of Sydney, says “the Sabbath
should not be a day of gloom,” and he elders
wake up and wonder why the good doctor isn’t
consistent. He preaches every Sunday.
A writer in the agricultural column of the
Melbourne Leader advocates the extensive use
of mules in Australia, and wonders why they are
not more frequently seen. But he should remem-
her it is not every editor who can neglect his
business and go gallivanting about to gratify idle
curiosity.
While the Her. Phillips, a Holey Flat
(Manning River! divine, was holding forth the
other day a black snake made its appearance.
It is a long while since the Devil paid any preacher
such a compliment.
An Italian resident of Sydney went out to
dine “ with a friend,” and in trying to swallow a
two-ounoa piece of beef, was fatally choked.
The man who, at our scanty table, takes two
ounces at a bite, is no friend of ours.
One of the N.S.W. postmistresses has a
poodle which she has trained to lick postage
stamps when necessary. This makes the dingo’s
keep come lightly on his mistrfes, and, besides, it
gives her a chance to keep on talking all the time.
A royal commission is projected with a
view to the revision of the laws of Nature. Rev.
Dr. Fullerton is responsible for this, he having
written to the S M. Herald pointing out that all
that is needed to ensure a good rainfall can be got
by making proper representations at Head
Quarters. The lobbying can be arranged on the
usual terms—roll up and let the coin chink on the
collection-plate.
The religious sentiment of the Bourke
(N.8.W.) Telegraph :-‘“DoI believe in special
prayers for rain? said Bakblox, ‘No, Ido not. If
the prayers of dying sheep and cattle, dying thro’
no fault of theirs, avail nothing, wbac will the
hypocritical cant of a lot of two-leggod brutes be
worth? Yah, don’t tell me I’” This, it will be
observed, is a creed especially adapted for use
in the more remote districts of our beloved coun-
try.
“Humming Bee,” of the Sydney D.T., is
going it. It is already an understood thing that she
is the recognised abstract, if not the brief chronicler
of her time, so far as the O übernatorial party ai'a
concerned. What with Lady C’s Gold Cup, and
the “gowns” of the Hon. Mies H., the fair scribe
may be said to entertain the town. However,
there is such a thing as overdoing it; and now
that she has fully ventilated the gowns and the
cup, we would like to hear her hum a little on the
subject of Lord Bertie’s boots. It would take
more than one writer (of any sex) to overdo
them.
Just at this parlioular juncture the eyes of
all Australia are fixed upon John Renton, who
appeared at a Melbourne Court the other day.
John describes himself as “the manager of a bank
in heaven.” His mission apparently is pushing
celestial biz. with the capitalists of this world.
Or else—the thought is too dreadful- can it be
that Mr. Renton has speculated on his own
account and made himself scarce when St. Peter
looked in to examine the books ? Our faith in
managers is so shattered that we wouldn’t be sur-
prised to hoar that John Renton is “ wanted ” by
the overhead police Did h? embellish his heavenly
dining-room with Scriptural texts?
One of the Salvation Army’s advertising
fads is a ma-dacal stampede of yeling warriora
and warrioresses, called a Trade Procession, in
which each carries the tools or emblems of his (or


her) ordinary work. A carpenter shakes his saw
at Heaven, a gardener whirls a phenomenal pump-
kin on high, while a housemaid exhibits to an ap-
preciative Lord her pail and broom, and a semp-
tress humps along her time-payment £toger. And
we have a suspicion that they are carrying tnis
thing to its logical conclusion, by taking unto
themselves names to suit their general occupation,
for amoDg the blood-and-fire eaters we notice
there is a Cadet Drylie, and a Cadet Muxoll.
For the future we must deal gently with a
Parson’s amorous eccentricities. At the Chester
(Eng.) Police Court a youth was charged with kiss-
A SYDNEY RAILWAY EPISODE.
“Come up to my place at X-fleld,” said a country
friend to our artist, “and spend the Easter holidays.
By the way, if you'll bring sixpen’orth of raw prawns
with you we’ll have some fishing.”
“It’s a good sixpsm’ortb,” said the fishmonger,
| “and they’re all alive—caught this morning. Some
| likes ’em a leetle stale, but that’s a matter of taste/’
With the prawns safelv stowed away among his other effects,
our artist departs for X-fleld—a journey of less than 20 miles
i
He had not been many days on the journey before he noticed that his fellow-passengers regarded him
with aversion—if not positive loathing. What could it mean ? Queer smell in the compartment.
A few morve days and the train reached Farrsmatta. The
Sin okiDg-compptrtment vacated by all but our artist. The worst
of it whs an officious feilow-travelJer wired ihe Chief of Police
at X-fleld: “ Arrest villainous-looking man with suspicious-
smelling luggage.”
The Chief of Police at X-fleld had some difficulty in identi-
fying his man at first as ho wore no disguise—but he did
identify him.
And, arrested on suspicion of murder,
our artist is towed back to Sydney by
the Unlimited Lightning Express tnic,
"Where, after a long and tedious journey,
be is committed to wait the actio n of the
Coroner’s Jury.
“ And the jury find that the said Prawns came to their deaths
from o.'d age and exhaustion, induced by a long and tedious
journey by railway of 20 miles; and we further recommend
that ttee Commissioner for Railways be condemned to travel
the same distance, without refreshment, unless the rate of speed
of suburban travel be raised forthwith —so that a journey of 20
miles shall not be the undertaking of a lifetime.”
tog a girl against her inclination. Furthermore, it
was stated that he had a weakness for climbing on
tO P of a haystack to peer into the bedroom of his
hnresponsive lady-love. But a medical gentleman
®ame forward to prove that the prisoner was
troubled with “ religious melancholia.” This ex-
planation lifts a heavy load from our mind. When
spiteful people tellus of bachelor cuiates calling
tnree times a week on mariied la ties during
nubby’B office he urs, '"we shall mere'y sigh and say,
imor fellow I She’d ministering to his religious
toelaaoholia.”
A man named Eddie, giving evidence be-
IQ re the Otago Land Board recently, mentioned
casually that he was drowned at Wanganui and
an Inquest held on him In December, 1885.” As he
was In Sydney at the time he did not hear about it.
He was not present at the inquiry either in the
character of corpse or otherwise. He was now
alive and wanted some money from the board for
improvements on his forfeited selection :
No clay-cold, dripping corpse was he,
No victim of foul tragedy:
Not muoh of that was Henry Eddie.
He proved that fact, he wanted ready;
Good notes he asked for, and we know
They re little use where most men go.
Here’s the lay of the latest patent-medi-
cine ad.:—“ Despairing Bankers.—The number of
suicides among the brightest and most capable of
business men, bankers, and others will be reduced
to a minimum as soon as the specific virtues of,
&o.” Bunkum I The brightest Australian bankers
don’t despair nowadays any more than a Darnley
Island mummy does. It’s the cash depositors who
do all the despairing, while the b.b.’s keep their
raoing-studs and hold midnight “swarrys” in
honour of the high-kioking nymphs of the opera
bouffe, and have a real good time all through in
general. Last night we overheard our own special
banker reading family prayers. To day we oould
give Iscariot odds, and then best him at a square
deal of despairing.
The effects of the drought are pain-
fully apparent in the North, where cattle
are dying by soores, the grass not having yet
sprung. Poverty-stricken and miserable, the poor
creatures crawl about looking for a spot on which
to die, unheeded even by toe crows who would
desert the fattest of them for a cart-wheel. A few
weeks ago a drover was bringing a mob along the
road, and, as he headed the lead into a gap, noticed
an old swagman coming towards the mob
—“ Look out,” he shouted, “the cattle will run at
you.” “Run be /’remarked the old Johnny
Warder, why them couldn’t walk at you.
Mind wired you get ’em up on top of the ridge.”
“Why?” “’Cos there’s a bit of a breeze up
there, and, blind me, if it catches ’em broadside
on, it'll blow every hoof of ’em into Cheeseoutter’s
creek.”
It was midnight, and the policeman paced
his weary bent. It was too early to go home and
have a cou pie of hours’ sleep—the sergeant might
come rotund—too late to get a drink, the pub. was
closed. Presently a sound of revelry by night
assailed hitf ears.and a couple of midnight roysterers
approached. Joy! they stopped at the whisky-
mill. “ Are yez goin’lnside ? ” " We are 1” “ Well,
now, tell Raygan to leave the bottle over the
second palin’ from the gate, and when I come
down I’ll get it.” They hurried home, and, while
Raygan prepared the liquor, one of the youths, a
chemist, prepared a potion which was placed
therein. The mixture was duly annexed and
abserbedby the guardian of the peace, and for
two days afterwards another blue-coated Pat-
lander went bis rounds. Raygan dares not open
his doors after hours now or turn an honest penny
on the Sabbath Day. The Argus eye of the hor-
fleer is hon ’im.
It is a -weird and grisly fact that no Teu-
ton resident in Sydney has ever been known to
ask his butcher for “ German ” sausage.
It is said that we shall be able to go
“home” for £B, in a lew weeks. If people will
be allowed to come out as cheap, it will be handy
for a few of the German princes, who. for tailor’s
reasons, fancy taking- the trip. The Duke of Teck,
for instance, might avail himself of the chance.
They wouldn't let him “go broke” here, and it
would be giviDg Duchess Polly a rest from the
peipetual shower of delf. Toe Duke would be
hen-sure of a billet. They would make him any-
thing he fancied—say Minister for Cats.


Mr. Pioton, the travelling advocate for
Christian Evidences, lectures to-morrow night on
the Antiquity of Man. More autobiography.
The S. F. Newsletter savs Australia is
" permeated with refined intellect.” The editor
ought to hear Frawncis Hdbigle, M.P , address the
’Ouse.
At Colundra, last Thursday, one Adana,
an aboriginal. was arrested for murdering his wife.
What a pity the o’d original Adam didn’t crack
Eve’s head with a waddy I
The truth transpires by degrees. The
Sydney Morning Herald of last. Saturday admits
that one of its articles was written by an inmate of
Calian Park Lunatic Asylum.
In Sydney, up to date, no sausage contain-
tainiDg meat ov°r a month old, and no bread with
mere than one-fifth alum can command a ready
sa'e The 41b. loaf, at latest quotations, had risen
to 3'b 6 >z.
During a case in a Melbourne court, the
otbe"dav. the presiding magistrate remarked. “I
feel that I have been in an atmosphere of oerjury
to-day.” There was an unusual number of police-
men present.
The Melbourne Age says “the income tax
notoriously habituates otherwise excellent people
to systematic Ivin*-, and go impairs the moral sense
of the public.” Itis horrible to think what the
Age leader-writers would be if they had to pay
incom-’-tax.
A Melbourne reporter stood up to be
tested by Mr. Stuart Cumberland. His sppear-
ance, it is unnecessary to say, was a clue to his
occupation, for it d oes not require a Ptuart Cum-
berland to distinguish a without a
heel on the right font, and a new Wellington on
the left, to know that a wielder of the weapon
mightier than the was p-esent. “You may
stand down, sir. You are thinking about steak
and onions. Next.”
We have inspected the bill sent in for
N.8.W.’8 share of the New OuiDea Protectorate
expenses. It is now quite evident either that the
official* entrusted with the British representation
moat have called et the wrong p'ace. or else the
“ D >rk Continent ” must be a very different stt le
of country from what our Munchausen explorers
have described it. Amnos-st other breezy itpm*
we find, “cab hire £54 19s. Bd.” After which
we are prepared to hear that Hon. Lady Bie Vagi
gave a 5 o'clock tea and the Vic a-regal party then
honoured the oper i-bouff 3 with their presence.
There was only one J.P. for the Monday
morning’s work in the courthouse at Yarraville
(V), a week or two ago. Tbe senior constable
placed Peter Smith in tbe dock and accused him
of using profane language within the hearing of
the public. The prisoner pleaded guilty, but
urged that it was a first offence. Th's neing
admitted by the c instable, hia worship told Peter
that be was one ot the most respectable men in
tbe colony and authorised him to clear at once.
Henry Mahon was next p aced in the dock on a
charge of druokenntsi. Complications here arose.
Henry averred that be had been arrested for pro-
fane language, and witnesses testified that it was
Peter Smith, aDd not Henry, who had been drunk.
Tbe Bench added several inches to the area of the
bald pp it on the top of its head and ordered Henry
to fly to freedom Then James Vance mounted
the pillory. James was charged with riotous be-
haviour. But it was proved that James Vance
was alios Hmry Mahon, alias Peter Smith, and
thatatihe time in question he was asleep in bed.
To thegazr of tbe irate Beach th 9 senior-constable
only answered, * Begorra.” Tne J F, bald now
all to the forehead, went home, and row when he
is asked to attend court, he replies, “ No.”
The Melbourne D.T, ridicules “thought-
reading,” and says:—“Fouls are as separaie as
stars, and ar lorely. Each dwells in a solitude imo
whic h the only knowledge that can, independently
of our own will, pass, is the knowledge of Omni-
science. Life would be intolerable if there were
no wholesome and sacred shelter witbia which the
lanermost Belt could take refuge.” Yes, life
would be intolerable if the rest of the congrega-
tion could p'y into tbe deep recesses of the miad
of tbe snuffling deacon, whose face shone like a
benediction—and see that, though his house was
hung In Blbie-tex's, be was only a canting thief
afUr all. H«d there been many mind readers
around, all tbe saints who are now ia gaol for rob-
bery would have bad to stop reading the Mel-
bourne D.T. years before the jury found them
guilty.
Now we know all about it. In a recent
lecture at Ipswich (Q ), Dr. Taylor, the scientist,
Bald:—“At Sydney we find a quarter of a million
of teople, with bouses of greater antiquity, and
narrpwer, crookeder streets, because the first
houses were built along tbe lints of the old bul-
lock tracks, and bullocks did not go straight, as
they understood the laws of spiral curves and the
easiest way of ascending;hills.” When Sydney was
laid out, rum, and not gold, was currency. Lots
of things walked “ spirally ” beside the bullocks.
Mr. John Douglas is one of the very lew
men in Australia whom we regret to find enrolled
in the Companionship of Michael and George.
Most of the others wanted th« flourish of the
alphabetic triplet about their names to get the
o immualty to acquire tbe habit of associating tbe
word “ honourable” with them. Mr. Douglas was
honourable without the flourish.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
As was anticipated, the six-round Queens-
berry encounter urtween Jack Hall audEtward
Seymour, at Foley e, on Saturday night, proved
the most scientific and well-con tested sparring
match to which the Sydney public have been
treated for some time. In meeting Seymour, Hall
gave away a big lump of avoirdupois, but since
bis arrival in tbe colonies Hall bas shown such
good work that he baa uo sbow of getting a match
on with a boxer anythiog near his own weight.
On both sides Bplendid science was shown, the in-
fighting being rapid and nothing to choose be-
tween the pair, but Hall made most of the work,
and repeatedly lea with the left on to his opponent.
Jack Thompson stood referee, and at the termina-
tion of the six rounds stated the boxing had been
to equal that he eould not divide them, and de-
clared “a oraw.” So far as the infighting was
concerned, there was nothing to choose between
the men, but Hall's leads with the left should have
counted high in a contest for "points,” and, in
our opinion, should have entitled him to a decision
ia his favour borne good bouts were gone through
previous to the event of the evening, which wound
up the entertainment. The elder Fuller and
S-ewart had a ding-dong thrte rounds, in favour
of Stewart, who, ihough not a quick boxer, bas
great hitting power, and when he does get on he
soon brlDgs the hanky-p»Dky men down to his
own standard. Larry Foley then had a bit of fun
with Pablo Franks. Though anything Xut a sti- r
in the boxiDg firmament, a sight of Pablo al ways
"takes a trick ” when he exhibits his magnificent
form in gladiatorial costume. He is certainly a
splendid specimen of a muscular man—not artifi-
cial stuff piled on with heavy-weight lifting aad
gymnastic exercises, but natural bone and muscle,
a * *
The proposed International Regatta, to
come off in the vicinity of New York, will no
doubt cause the Beach party to don their consider-
ing caps as to whether it is good enough to cim-
pete. For the championship single-scull race the
first money will be £l6OO, anf Beach Is to be
offered £lOO expenses if he wins and £2OO if he
loses. 'I huusaad pounds and expenses are not to
be picked up every day, and we should not be sur-
prised if Beach were to accept.
» ' * *
Matthews and Swift duly met on Saturday
to row over the champion course for £4O, when
Matthews took command from start to finish, and
won as he liked, in 25min. 21iec. Matthews is
quite a lad, and unless he overdoes it, should
mature into a first-class man.
• • »
The oraok 20-footers —Geoesta and Nereus
»-Btarted for their race in Sydney harbour last
Saturday, with George Ellis and Billy Griffiths
respectively in command, but the light air which
they had at the start died out completely, and the
race has been postponed till a future day. The
Qenesta was leading when the wind fell away, and
we fancy that, blow high or blow low—at all
events under the present ringing and handling—
the Ganesta will beat the Nereus.
» • *
The Sao and Assegai had better luck than
the 20-footers, and maraged to finish their race
over the course, outside St'doev harbour, but it
was such a drifting match that it seems a pity the
rBce was conclude 1, as otherwise it would have
been postponed to a future day, when there might
have been a capful of wind sufficient to test tbe
capabilities of tbe yaohts. The Assegai won by 11
minutes, and has now won two events and the
match.
• ■ •
Yaohting men will regret to hear that the
enthusiastic yachtsman, Mr. Grant, who identified
himself wifh the little Cntty Bark and the Oitbons,
is in very bad health. He is in Scotland now, but
hopes to be out shortly with his old boating
friends.
* * *
Still another correspondent (“New Chum”)
asks our advice before investing in the "Sydney
Jockey Turf Club’s” “consultation” on the
Queen’s Birthday Cup. This enterprise has been
snown up by nearly every paoer in Australia, but
the “secretary” still has fiis little box at tbe
General Post Office, Sydney, where be aavises his
victims to send iheir cash, aDd with bitter ironv
he asks them to send stamps for reply and result.
We suDOOsethe detectives are too busy with the
bank-officials just now to keep an eye on Box 784,
G.P O, Sydney.
• * ■
Neil-Matterson has arranged a match with
George Perkins, the English sculler, to come off
on 24th May. Barring “ climatic influences,” Neil
JEM SMITH, CHAMPION OE ENGLAND.
History repeats itself, and, after a lapse of 26 years, it looks very much as if we are
to have a second edition of the Bayers-Heenan fight, without, it is to be hoped, the
unsatisfactory finish of the battle of Farnborough. Jem Smith, who claims the title
of Champion of England, recently challenged the renowned American champion,
John L. Sullivan, to fistic combat. Sullivan accepted, stating his willingness to meet
the Britisher for £1000 or £2000 aside In a ring encounter on either American or Irish
soil, giviog or taking £100 expenses; so we may shortly expect to hear a matoh has
been ratified. “Handsome Charlie” Lett, now resident in England, by last mail, sent
a couple of Smith’s photos, to Foley, one in ring costume, and the other in mufti.
Smith looks big enough to meet anything in the shape of a man, but it remains to be
seen if he can withstand the lightning rushes of the “Boston Boy.”
should have a soft thing in his maiden effort from
Putney to Mortlake.
* * *
It is to be hoped the Junior Association
will make arrangements for the final picking of
the team ia Meloourne, lor the best man in Sydney
is not always the best man across tbe borcer.
There can be no two opinions that Mitchelson
should not have been left till 12ch pick, more
especially as tue hard Melbourne wickets would
suit him right down to the ground.
* * *
The match for the Senior Cup between the
Sydney Varsities and Belvideres was a regular
surprise party. lt in-gettiDg was not the ord« r of
day, the Belt on t heir first try puttmg togttner
but 64. while the Varsity, who, by the way, must
have been a bit stiff after their leather hunt of the
previous Saturday, only managed to Bcore one
over half that number. As the match will, in all
probability, be 'decided by the first inniDgs, the
University team would do well to throw up the
sponge and allow the Warwicks and Belvideres to
start for the “ last and finish.”
• * *
Tbe result of last Saturday’s play for the
Sydney Junior Cup has reduced the fioai struggle
to the two Wentworth Park representatives, tne
Osbornes and Wentworths, and tbe Osbornes
should win hands down. AlDeit the Surry United*
only set the Wentworths 83 to get, the latter lost 9
wickets getting them, with the exception of
Dickens and Sparks they proved themselves as
great a lot of cocktails as ever handled a bat.
* * *
The put-out of the Carthonas by the
Osbornes in one innings was an awful blow to
the supporters of the black and red oontingent,
Baxter being the only man who shaped in a work-
manlike styie.
♦ * *
The cricketing ladies—God bless ’em—have
not been long in starting a bit of a tiff amongst
themselves over the late match. The trouble lies
in a trophy given for the highest score, and Miss
R. Dean, to whom the trophy was awarded, has
flown into print, and puts her trouble tbusly:
“I, being one of tbe two sent in first, made 39,
notout; when next I went in I made 36, caught,
making an average of 75 runs for one innings.
Miss N. Gregory, of the other side, made 37,
bowled, thus completing her first innings; she
then commenced her second innings and scored
24 Mr. Ironside at this time, 20 minutes to 6
o’clock, raised his hand and declared the match
over, and tbe Siroccos winning. One of the
umpires insisted on our playing till 6 o’olock, and
I, to oblige the general public, continued to play,
not thinking for a moment that the scoring of
Miss Gregory, after the match was won by her
s’de, would be posted against me.” Miss Dean
goes on to say she “never heard of such a thing
in professional or other matches.” and neatiy
finishes up by “ leaving it to gentlemen cricketers
to say whether she is right.” As if cricketers,
gentlemen or otherwise, would be so ungallant as
to contradict a lady.
* ■ *
Billy Farnan, who took his 17 rounds’
gruel from Tom Lees without a murmur, is
accredited with being a pluck’d’un, but he can’t
hold a candle to Mr. Ironsides, the promoter of
tbe ladies’ cricket match. We would sooner let
Lees kick us round the r f ng for 38 rounds, than
stand half a minute before an enraged beauty
who had just lost her grip on a highest-soore
trophy.
a * •
The first day of the Hawkesbury Autumn
meeting was bleak in the extreme, and matters
were not improved when poor Carter received his
death-fall from Cymbal in the Hurdle raoe, which
fell an easy victory for Scobeloff from the Drum-
mer. Keith made rather an easy win of the
Hawkesbury Stakes from Fraud, Soldier Boy run-
ning into a place; Acme, at 6 to 4, never made a
mistake and won the Claret Stakes by a comfort-
able couple of lengths from Chesham, Tamarisk
third; Prodigal, at 2 to 1 on. won the Auction
Stakes from Bourke; and The Jewel wound up the
day by winning tbe Railway Handicap from
Dagobert, Pet Girl third. Though fine ovefnead
on the second and concluding day, a damper was
thrown over the sport after a furlong had been
covered In the Shorts’ Handicap by Crystal
stumbling and throwing the Victorian jockey
Flanagan against a post, killing him instantly—
literally smashing him into bits. Cairo won the
Shorts irom Stafford: and Leichhardt appropriated
the Selling Plate. For the Hawkesbury Autumn
Handicap the favourite, Fraud, showed first into
the straight, running with Remus and Uralla in
close attendance, followed by Lancer and Bonnie
Bee. At the distance Fraud shot his bolt, and
Lancer took command and won by a length from
Bonnie Bee; the consistent Cerise and Blue finish-
ing a head behind Bonnie Bee. Arista won the
Disposal Plate; and Rapid won the Sportsman’s
Handicap from Dagobert, Pet Girl third.
* * *
Farnan proved but a chopping-block for
Lees, when the pair met last Monday on the
Williamstown racecourse, in the presence of some
thousand spectators, to fight their Queensberry
contest for £4OO, but Farnan’s magnificent
physique and dogged courage enabled him to
stand 17 rounds before his opponent, when the
police broke uo the ring and stopped the proceed-
ings. Farnan is do boxer, but he always has a hit
like theklok of a horse left in him, and he is never
done with until the sponge is thrown up. Peter
Jackson is anxious for a shy at Leas, and it seems
a pity the pair cannot come to terms, but Lees,
when last in Sydney, fought so shy of a match
with Jackson that it would not appear he is over-
anxious for a job iu that direotion.
* * *
At 11 o’olock last Saturday night the
weary wobblers were at rest, Scott having covered
424 miles 8 laps to Edwards’ 406 miles 4 laps. The
excitement during portions of the contest was
simply maddening, more especially when Edwards
retired to have his swollen ankle patohed up and
the water run off the blisters on his feet. Com-
mend us to a canine controversy if this is “ sport.”
* * *
Touching the Junior Cup now being
played for on the Sydney Agricultural Ground, it
would be information to learn whether there is
such a trophy in existence or not.
* * *
The cricket season just now on the wane
has been an exceptionahy barren one as regards
first-class and representative contests. However,
if the Melbourne Club carry out their intention of
briDgiDg out an English 11, and Shaw, Shrewsbury
and Lillywhite also bring out one, we shall have a
surfeit of International contests next season.
* * *
It is generally an understood thing that
the cricket season does not close till the Saturday
prior to the 24th of May in each year. How is it
then that the management of the N.S.W. Associ-
ation Ground can take upon themselves to stop
cricket matches and allow the ground to be occu-
pied by athletic clubs while the cricket season is
in progress, and before the matches for the Asso-
Ground Cup are completed ?
*. * *
The Silver Kings of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association Ground feel sore that they did not
have a finger in the receipts of the recent ladies’
match. Their superior wisdom and foresight pro-
phesied a failure, but now that they see that a
ladies’ match is a novelty that will bring in the
dollars they assert that the financial management
of the next one will be in their own hands.
* * *
The annual record of accidents at football
stands a rosy chance 0f being as large in ’B6 as dur-
ing any previous year if an early start can be
taken as a guage. Although the season proper
has not yet commenced, we have to chronicle
accident No. 1, which happened on Saturday. W.
Butter, one oi the most prominent players of the
Sydney club, was the victim, the nature of the
injury being dislocation of the—yes, nose.
* * *
The unsportsmanlike action of Alex. Ban-
nerman in tailing to put in an appearance on be-
half of Carlton on the second day of the Cup
match between that club and the Warwicks has
brought down upon his sugar-loaf shaped cranium
a large amount of well-deserved censure. A
couple, at least, of the prominent members of the
Carlton Club state positively that they will not
play in the same club with him again.
* * *
As a racing man, and a thorough all-round
“sport,’’ no one was better known or respected in
the land of the Maori than Bob ValJance, one of
the many unfortunates who went under curing
the wreck of the ill-fated Taiaroa. As a “ book, '
his word was as good as his bond; as a "runner,”
the public always looked for a fair flutter for
their money, and were never disappointed by him.
Among other good things on the turf, his name
was associated with such real clinkers as Cam-
ballo, Lara, Salvage, Siesta, and Bundoorah; the
former beiug only nicked on the post, and pre-
vented lrom scooping a big Plemington pool by
Mr. Loughlm’s Lord Harry. Only a few days be-
fore the J aiaroa went down, Mr. Vailance wired a
brother “ book.” to back Nelson for the Sydney
Cup to win him £4OOO, and It was his intention to
step over here to watoh the struggle. Now he
has weighed in for his last race, and tne turf loses
a sterling sport in poor Bob Vailance.
* * *
The Tuapeka (N.Z.) Times says that the re-
cently-run Tapanui Handicap of 1& miles was won
by Archie in lmin, 52sec. This time has not been
beatec.anu Tapanui, where the horse was bred,
has been the proud possessor of the world’s fleetest
equine performer.* The name of the horse and his
worthy owner, Mr. Waters, together with the
name of the Tapanui Jockey Club, wifi dow be
banded down to posterity in the •• Turf Register.”
We may add-that the Tapanui whisky is locally
manufactured in the bush from barley grown iu
the district.
» am
From the recently-published “Reminis-
cences ” ot William Day, the great English trainer:
—“lt is remarkable that few champions of the
ring lived to a peaceful end. Nat. Langham, Owen
Swift, the rwo Brooms—John and Harry—all came
to untimely grief. The Brooms early in life
severed their jugular veins with carving-knives,
whilst the others drank themselves to death, or
sought shelter from starvation in almshouses.”
• » ■
The Western Star (Roma, Q.) undertakes
to cover Captain Byrnes’ £25 puDlicly proffered
wager that Beach does not beat Edward Manlan
over the Thames championship course from Put-
ney to Mortlake within the next six months. No
race no bet.
■ * *
The cabled result of the City and Su-
burban furnishes another proof that the Epsom
course is specially adapted for horses of certain
conformation. The three plaeed have all pre-
viously distinguished themselves over the same
ground. Royal Hampton, the winper, was third
to Melton and Paradox in last year’s Derby. High-
land Chief was only beaten a head by St. Blaise, in
1883 (not 1884, as a Melbourne paper states), and
Lonely carried off last year’s Daks. Looking back
a bit, we can remem Der Derby winners in Bend Or
and Sufton pulling off the City and Suburban,
while the great Cremorne was second in the same
handicap. By the way, the Prince of Wales is re-
ported to have a high opinion of Royal Hampton,
so possibly he won a bit by the horse’s latest vic-
tory. The thought fills us with joy.
* * *
The Victorians are said to have found
another Spofforth in a young bowler who has
Played with a junior club during the past season.
This rising prodigy took five wickets with six
balls one afternoon. Whether he can work simitar
destruction in a first-class match, with 10,000
people looking at him, remains to be proved.
V * *
Joe Bennett, the well-known billiard-
player (Champion for two brief periods) has a very
clever little wife. She enjoys the reputation of
being the best lady billlardist in the world, and
used to instruct fair pupils in the gentle art. Of
late, Mrs. Bennett has displayed her talent on other
boards, and we hear that she has made a hit as
Bess Armytage in “Lights o’ London” at the
Surrey theatre. Mrs. Joe Bennett has always been
a “public” character. Her mother (Mrs. Ham-
mersley) was hostess of the Peacock Tavern,
situated in the vicinity of the Agricultural Hah,
Loudon.
* * *
Two thousand pounds is to be added to
next Melbourne Cup. The owner of the second
horse will be solaced with £5OO, and the owner of
the third will have to make himself happy on £3OO
and the “shop.” While the V.R.C. authorities
were about the job ’tis a pity they didn’t raise the
minimum impost for the A.J.C. or V.R.C Derby
winner to something more than 7at. 51b. And no
distinction, by tbe way, is made between colts and
fillies in this respect, so that if a colt and filly ran
a dead heat for the Derby and divided the stake,
the filly would have to meet her eo-deadheater in
the Cup, minus the sexual allowance, and would
thus have decidedly the worst of the weights.
This contingency appears to have been quite
overlooked in drawing up the conditions ot the
raoe, and should be seen to next season.
Wolfe's Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
One of our judges spoke pretty sharply
the other day about the undue number of com-
mittals to higher courts meant to save magistrates
trouble. But those magistrates have a lot of very
unsavoury work, and they cannot go tar wrong in
committing doubtful cases to the superior courts.
Juries sometimes give questionable verdicts, and
not always unanimous ones, but if they had to try
the merits of such a business establishment as
Bray Bros., China and Glass Importers, Un-
doubtedly their verdict would be worthy of the
best patronage and support of the general Public,*,
To invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolfe's Schnapps,


Mr. Harold Stephen called the attention of
the N.S.W. Minister of Justice to a recent sentence
passed in Maitland on a prisoner found guilty of
a criminal assault on a child. Hi contended that a
sentence of 12 years and two floggings, one at the
commeccement of the term and the other at the
Notes at the N.S.W. Art Exhibition, at Sydney Town Half.
No. 1. In suspense. 10. Sydney Harbour—Pinchgut on fire. 16. Still Life —Rather. 33. Bush track, or the Melbourne girls promenade. 36. What is it? We give it
up. 43. Coast scenery, Bondi-or, “Giving him Bondi.” 45. Portrait of George Hook, Esg.-very broadly painted, especialiy about the shoulders. 50. Paletle knife
study. 57. A So of toil. 73. “Nox.” The resemblance of Mr. Nox to an owl is very striking. 74. Interior of railway sleeping carraige-gentleman has lost his ticket.
79. Creek at For field. There is said to be good fishing in this creek. We doubt it. 207. After the Picnic (Parliamentary). 225. Architectural design. 241. The Gap.-
Evening. 248. A corner of Mr. Daplyn’s studio (according to his own confession in the catalogue). 265. Ne n” Clontarf. 15. To-morrow afternoon.
192. Sentry-box mountain. The sentry is asleep inside his box. 244. Queen Mary’s Bedroom, sketched by our special artist, on the spot.
finish, was a brutal one. He said, and said truly
{Hansard, p 1383):—'“Flogging’ was only intended
J° stop crimes, which were extremely prevalent at
onh time; it was never contemplated that this
Punishment should bo awarded to long-sentenced
Prisoners. To a man of middle age it was
horrible in tbe extreme to be looking forward
to a punishment of this kind." He argued, as
every man of sense does, that the object of j udioial
punishment is not the gratification of our natural
desire for revenge by seeing some particular
criminal suffer acutely, but to mete out punteh-
ment that shall prevent or discourage hundreds of
others from following bad examples, Harry
Levien, member for T<4m worth, wbo, through his
legal practice, has probably as intimate a know-
ledge of how criminals think as sny man amongst
us, said, whether justly or unjustly we know not,
—‘•Punishment by flogging was becoming too
frequent in Sydney, for time after time we found
that when such magistrates as Mr. Yates were on
the bench a man had little chance of getting
oif. Personally, Mr. Levien thought the life
of this min ought to have been taken
at the time the offence was committed
Hanging was tv>o good for such a man.”
Which means, if it means anything:, that to the
individual 12 years in gaol and two hoggings are
such a horrible outlook that death would be a
kindness. Possibly Mr. Harry Levien's next re-
P arfc t^ a be b s r tm g m o ore a out 8 8 C po 8 ke 0 n n, on h the dlscre-
tionary exercise of power to punish on the part of
magistrates. He said (Hansard): “That gentle-
man had a peculiar lunacy in these particular
cases, and he would have something more to say
about bis conduct; when the estimates were under
consideration ” Very likply the word lunacy is a
misprint for leniency, and as it refers to a magis •
trate of some standing', perhaps we maybe for-
tunate enough to have other statements lrorn men
who know what is, and what is not, a deterrent
from crime.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for W olfe s.


PEPPER AND SALT.
It appears, from Mr. Hayter’s last batch
of statistics, that one Victorian husband in every
110 is certain to be favoured with twins. The
spirit of gambling is strongly developed in these
colonies, and we cannot help thinking that this
publishing of the odds, so to speak, will inspire
many married men with a longing to land the
“double event.” If it pleases a fellow to be
classed as one in a hundred, how much greater his
gratification when men speak of him as one in
1101 ’Tis a distinction worth striving for. Let us
sing a little baliadjof the future:—
Hold your breath while we quote to you,
verbatim et lltteratim, the leading article which on
10th April appeared in the Irish and Australian
World, an organ of public opinion that, thanks
to the merciful forbearance of an outraged
Heaven, still continues to be published at Narra-
bri, N.S.W., The editor of the World afore-
said, which is a paper whose object is to right
the wrongs of Ireland, has struck the keynote of
correct spelling by sound, and tuned the measure
to an Irish harp - in fact he is a phonetic writer
with an Hibernian accent. We can imagine him
poetically meditating as follows ere he proceeded
to pen the unique production faithfully reprinted
below:—
Hard indade is it thin that Ould Oireland should
suffer
The Saxon to grind her to dust ’neath his fut;
Sure, ’tis cowardly shpalpanes wud let EDglan l
bluff her
Whin pikes and good sabres the bondage cud
cut.
He me sowl, e’en the language we’re shpeakin’
this minute
Wid Sassenach sounds grates all hard on me ear,
gwate bad luck to my pin, has it nothin’ else in it ?
No ripple melodyus of Erin so dear.
Wirasthru I be the hole in the tail av me acket,
I’ll not be the lasht wan to shtrike the first
blows:
Yerra, boy, bring ink, pins, and of paper a packet,
To hell with the Saxon, I’m at ’em, here goes!
And next issue the subjoined article, which needs
to be carefully read, appeared in the World:—
“ It is now no longer possible for a resident on the
Namoi to disguise to himself the fact that the con-
tinued drought protends a crisis of financial ruin
and disaster. It has been threatening us for some
time past, but now the fulfilment of its grimest
terrors seems near at hand, the state of the coun-
try is something pitibai and disolate in the ex-
treem, day after day and week after week passes
without rain, although it comes hovering round
in its mantel of darkness as though it were to
grige and anoy us, and then takes a sudden Site
and leave us in sunshine, and sorrow, the soil is
dry and parched, and the brown grassless
wastes stretch round the observer desolately. No
vardure but that of the evergreen eucalyptus
to refresh the weary eye, the creeks have dried
up altogether, while the rivers has become a
mear chain of holes of slymey putrid water
which is UDfit for use the stations that were alive
formerly with the lowing of cattle and the bleat-
ing of sheep are now silent and deserted by almost
all but the thousands of carcases that taint the
foeted air. Now all this discloses a very sad and
runious state of things, description fails to convey
an idea of the disolation that prevales, but this is
only one aspect of the disaster. The bleaching
liones and living skeletons of the flocks and herds,
mean foreclosed mortgages, a tight money market
death to enterprise, and the utter stagnation of
traid and business life The towns suffer as well as
the country, and nothing shows more plainly than
such a season as the present, how the prosperity
Of the towns and of the country districts, proceed
hand in hand. It is such a season as the present
which points the moral of the practis hitherto
existing, of sacriflslng the intrests of the country
generally to the whents -of the metropolis. If a
few of the many hundreds of thousands spent in
lavish extravagance in Sydney we devoted to
water conservation, errigation, of the locking of
rivers, the prosperity of the colony would be on a
much ehurer bases than it is, it would of course
be many years before such a scheme could be
elaborated and perfected. But it is possible and it
is necessary, the squatter with his hundred thou-
sand sheep and his vast acriage of territory will
never be looked upon as one of the pillars of
colonial prosperity, so long as his deeds lie in the
bank and the severe drought withholds his in-
trest, with the days of water conservation and
irrigation will come, those of the smaller sheep
farmers with assured capital, and only then can
we look upon our wool, hids and tallow, as well as
our beef and mutton, as stapel commodities and
elements of colonial welth.”
There, now! Who says that the provincial press
of N.S.W. isn’t the Archimedean lever that makes
the universe sit up ?
* * *
The War Cry, which bestrides this nar-
row world like a Colossus, as a comic paper, has
anew attraction in the shape of a column of
* Cream,” which is one prolonged shriek. From
this we take a spoonful in the shape of the open-
ing paragraph:—‘‘Several men were conversing
with one another respecting the power of dyna-
mite, and one said, ‘ A piece as large as my thumb
is enou ?h to blow us all to the devil.’ ‘ Ah I ’ said
a Christian there, *it would not do that for me, for
I would go home to heaven.’ ”
One of the most glaring and heartless
attempts at public imposition we ever remember
hearing of comes from Brisbane. According to
the evidence at hand it appears that a man threw
himself Into the river, near the Botanic Gardens,
Brisbane, and was well and truly drowned. The
body was found, but nothing could be dis-
covered as to Its identity man, except a
small pocket-book, which, like poor Mr. Crooks’
bedroom, was chock-full of Scriptural texts, and
amongst these was a very significant one which
read: “ Carst thy bread upon the Waturs. It is a
safe risk. If Men doan’t get it, the fish may.
Hallehlooyur! C. 8," At the Inquest held on the
remains, evidence was given that the deceased
was a man named Charles Bulmer. Several per-
sons who knew Bulmer well, testified positively to
the body of Bulmer, who, it was stated, was well-
connected both at home and in N.S.W. Since the
recovery and supposed identification of the body
in question Bulmer has made his appearance at
Ipswich, and is raising Cain over what he calls the
infamous reflection cast upon him, Mr. Bulmer’s
assumed indignatioD, however, is just a trifle
too thin. Several most respectable citizens
have sworn they saw him jump into the
river; the coroner, aided and abetted by 13 good
men and true, found that he was well and truly
dead, the local undertaker has certified to his
burial, and the bulk of the Queensland Press went
out of its way to give him some first-class obituary
notices. In the face of the whole of these damn-
ing facts, however, this miserable man has the
cool audacity to troop into Ipswich, and declare
he is still alive and hunky. This unseemly busi-
ness must be Bquelched at once, for if Bulmer is
to be quietly allowed to pass himself oil as a live
man,'after committing suicide and paying the
penalty of his crime, the public hereafter will
have no security that anybody is thoroughly dead,
and our electoral rolls will 3imply be so many
snares and delusions. The Queensland journals
declare that Charles Bulmer is dead. Therefore,
he is dead, and that settles the case, no matter
what absurd and utterly untenable views Mr*
Bulmer himself may hold upon the subject. A
newspaper is always started to b supply a long-
felt want;” it is conducted solely for the enlighten-
ment and instruction of the public, and when it
makes a declaration that declaration must be re-
ceived with implicit confidence, or bung goes the
whole of our social fabric. If a free Press is to
be contradicted and defied in this reckless manner,
the Archimedean lever which hoists the world
may as well be burst up for firewood, and
one of the grandest of all our cherished institu-
tions—the one on which a Wintwurth shed the full
loight av his consinthrated loominassity, the one
for which a Dinyhay worked himself bald-headed
and for which the sainted martyr, Peter Campbell,
fought and f9ll (in the gutter) will soon be no-
thing more than a crumbling ruin. Mr. Bulmer
must have a remarkably poor estimate of the in-
tellectual acumen of the average Australian mind
if he expects us to believe his mere word against
the sworn testimony of the respectable citizens
who saw him dive into the river, and of those who
hauled him out by the seat of his pants and
hung him across a fence to dry; against the in-
fallible verdict of the intelligent jurymen who sat
upon his worthless damp remains, against the un-
qualified assertion of the Queensland Press, and
against the truthful statements of the descendants
of George Washington, who, in their capacity of
special telegraph correspondents, flashed the bit-
ter facts along to the four corners of the earth.
If Mr. Bulmer persists in declaring that he is still
alive we call upon him, by virtue of the proud
position which we hold as the premier journal of
Australia, to produce the shovel with which*
he exhumed himself after he had been
carefully planted by the local undertaker ;
we call upon him to produce the man who sold
that shovel to him, and to state whether he
paid for it cash down, or bought it on the go-as-
you-please time-payment system. It is just pos-
sible we have not been favoured with the full ex-
tent of Mr. Bulmer’S audacity. It is quite possible
that he may yet assert that after having succeeded
in satisfactorily drowning himself he plunged into
the seething waters, ripped open a 30-ft. alligator
which had just swallowed the body, and that he
then hauled his own remains on shore, and sat on
them officially, in the baker’s-dozen capacity of
13 good men and a coroner, and it is quite possible
also that be is now sueing the Queensland Govern-
ment for his fees. Action must be taken with this
Bulmer biz. at ones; if not sooner. He may pos-
sibly believe he is alive, but we don’t. His vital
spark has skipped; he has gone to that bourne
from which not even a Goodchap can secure a re-
turn ticket; he is now nothing better than a heap
of disagreeable remains, and if he has the slighest
regard for his own reputation as a once honest
man he will give the undertaker another show and
have himself promptly carted off again to the
boneyard.
* * *
The Sydney Echo, in its issue of Saturday,
describes the Queen as “ a very short, very stout
woman with large round face, full colour, and a
very obstinate, not to say determined, expression.”
No C.M.G. after this, surely, for Fairfax of that
ilk:—
Thus the Evening News, reporting a
Water Police Court case:—“ Frivolous. A lad was
flood a shilling for having threatened to knock the
head off tho caretaker of the reserve in Wynyard-
equare. ’ •
*• m *
Sleep has fled affrighted froth our virtuous
couch since we stumbled across this ad. in the
Melbourne Age:—“Reward offered for informa-
tion that will lead to the discovery of Vincenzo
Muliere, aged 12, height sft., dark hair and com-
plexion, and dressed in a brown velveteen suit.
Left his father’s home to do the rounds of Mel-
bourne, playing on his violin. May have gone
towards Gippsland.” Yes, and he tnay have come
towards Sydney. With his violin, tool Dear
readers, keep a sharp look out for Vincenzo, or
there may he a tale ef blood reported in the
Nooze that will make your each particular hair to
stand qn end. While we are yet tolerably cool and
our pulse still makes healthful music, we will
warble a word of warning to Vincenzo:—
* * *
Herewith we give an extract from the re-
port of Senior-Constable M’Coll to the Fitzroy
(Vic.) City Council“ Elizabeth Morgan sold one
pennyworth of lolly pipes to a child whose name
I did not ascertain, as the child went out of the
shop (smart infant!) while I was questioning the
girl who scld the lollies.” That reads innocently
enough, doesn’t it ? If a child choose to dissipate
his, or her, substance in lolly pipes, who shall
demur? Alas I you have not yet had. the milk
from the cocoanut of Constable M’Coll’s report.
“ The lollies were sold at 7 15 p.m. on Sunday, the
4th inst.” Yes, sly drinking is not the only Sunday
vice rampant in this Southern hemisphere. Secret
lolly-sucking must be looked to. The banjo, if
you please.—
JONES’ DOUBLE.
John Jones was a benedict steady,
A pattern he was of a hub.,
His tea he came home to when ready,
And he never stayed late at the cl.ub;
He put by a bit for the morrow,
Tobacco and cards he thought sins,
And Johnny had only one sorrow—
Hie wife never blessed him with twins.
Poor Jones and the missus would mingle
Their tears when the dootor arrived,
For he never brought more than a “single; ”
So, though they grew richer and thrived,
The Joneses had this hidden trouble—
While their family steadily grew,
They never could bring off “ the double.”
Like some other peopie they knew.
Long years they both patiently waited,
Their lives by this cloud over-cast—
But just wasn’t our Johnny elated
When nurse shouted—” Twins, sir at last! ”
He cried—” I’m the proudest of paters,
And can hold up my head before men,
For I know, from those figures of Hayter’s,
I’m one in a hundred and ten.”
Now John has departed this planet
(And so, by the way, has his wife),
And on a big tombstone of granite
Is written a sketch of his life;
Though too often an epitaph flatters,
This only speaks truthfully when
It says—“ Jones in family matters
Was one in a hundred and ten.”
A Christian there! No wonder he was plucky;
No wonder dynamite to him could bring,
No fear-a blow-up might be rather lucky
Down in the realms of the Infernal King.
If hell is half way on the road to heaven,
This hapless Christian must, of course have
known
An upward tendency—if strongly given,
Would land him somewhere near the Golden
Throne I
ANOTHER TELEPHONE DIFFICULTY.
“HELLO! ”
“HELLO, HELL— 61”
“ HE L L-OW ! ”
“Ell ? \V ASSAY. 2 ”
“W-11-A-T DM) Y-O-T? SAT
“O! IfELL-01 ”
And is it thus, the sheet which bubbled over
So recently with fulsome siok’ning praise,
Whleh o’er each Royal utterance would hover
And hash the same up many dlff’rent ways:
Of queenly smiles to grooms and butlers granted,
Of “gifts” (God save the mark!) to hungry elves,
Each deed and word with slobber loudly chanted,
One line for Yic., a couple for themselves.
And now, at once, without plain cause or reason,
The sheet turns round (it often, though, does
that )
And speaks of majesty—is it not treason ?
As “short and round, full-coloured, and—oh—
fat!”
Oh, day of woe and heavy, bitter sorrow,
We little thought this thing had ever been,
But still it cheers our hearts to know, to-morrow
The Echo's voice may laud “ Our Gracious
Queen.”
Where’s the Frivolity ? There must be some in
This case, for Alfred always will be truthful;
But we are dull, and ask where does it come in
In this wild tale of desperado youthful ?
To us the thing looks terrible and thrilling,
Not trifling in the least, so that our query is,
Where’s the frivolity ? Is't In the shilling ?
Ah, no I to Alf. that part would seem most
serious,
Nay—positively tragic I Can it be that
He thinks the threat, if carried to fulfilment,
Was quite unworthy the harsh penalty that
It met, and to its victim no great-ill-meant ?
A threat of violent decapitation I
To us’tis horrible! We never read of
A worse. Wo ask, could Henntker’s relation
Write “Brevities” that sparkle, with his head off?
Can he consider this an airy trifle
That should have had no trouble made about it,
Because, if some one thus his head should rifle,
He could rub on about as well without it ?
“A widow’s dress for sale'; only worn three
times.” We clip the advt. from the Argus. Poor
John, evidently, soon had a successor. From his
present position of vantage wethinks he sees her
now with a wreath of orange blossoms upon her
snowy brow. Pass the saddest toned cow-bell,
please:—
FLEETING SORROW.
So soon I The husband that you mourn
Had barely time to reach the bourne
Whence none return,
Before—how very odd it reads I
You advertised your widow’s weeds
With unconcern.
He clasped you in his feeble arms,
And soothed, maybe, your fond alarms
With dying breath;
You sobbed (or so we should surmise)
And mid a multitude of sighs
Bemoaned his death.
But, then, a former suitor came
Entreating you to change your name;
The usual tale—
It only means a newer ring—
The king is dead, long live the king !
The weeds for sale.
Not all are so—but oh, alas!
How frequently it comes to pass
That widows’ caps—
While still their pretty cheeks be wet
With crocodiles tears—are set
At other chaps.
Troubadour enchanting,
With your curly hair,
If you are levanting,
Prithee, hear our prayer I
Do not come to Sydney
And bring that violin—
Too many of your kidney
Are kicking up a din.
Troubadours so curly
Clad in velveteen,
Every morning early
Roundabout are seen;
We don’t want another,
So Vincenzo, dear,
As a friend and brother,
Keep away from here.
Troubadour delightful,
With a laughing eye,
We are really quite full
Up of melo-dy;
If you’ve any pity
In your foreign breast
Hearken to our ditty—
Let us have a rest.
On a Sabbath evening,
Peaceful, holy, mild,
Lizzie sold a lolly
To a little child:
The infant spied the “ copper ”
And tore herself away;
He hadn’t time to stop her—
Alack, and well a day I
We are sending millions
O’er the briny seas;
We never make provisions
For heathen, such as these;
While the church is busy
With naked niggers wild
The Devil’s collared Lizzie
And that little child.
ONE REASON
Why diseases of the bladder and urinary organs
are so difficult to cure is that they frequently have
no pronounced syqiptoms. Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and
Diver) Bitters are peculiarly, adapted to the cure
or these complaints, and jro at once to the seat of
the trouble, giviog relief at once.
Woufe’s Schnapps is now the most popu-
lar drink in the world. Avoid other so-called
SCnNAPTS.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Blockings, 143 Pitt-street.
The hair is frequently rendered prema-
ture y grey by care, grief, delicate hoalth, lowmss
of spirits, or a depressed tone of the vital powers.
The u< e of Hall’s Vegetable Sicilian Hair Renewsr
will restore its youthiul colour and beauty
The Heavenly Paradise is frequently
thought about and hoped for, but few strive to
m vke an earthly paradise for themselves. After
the crosses, annoyance and exhaustion of business
tno quiet, tasty and well-appointed home is appre-
dated, and we fail in doing our part to build up an
earthly paradise if we neglect the beautifying of
ttie minds of the dwellers and the adornment of
the dwelling place. Articles new and beautiful in
deugn and shapes in Glass and China for the table,
mantels, walls, cabinets and, wasbstands intended
f ir making home happy obtainable at Bray 1 Bros.’
China Showrooms, 402 and 404 GeorgS-street.*
“Doctors differ.” They do, but the ex-
ception proves the rule,—They all agree that
Woupe’s Schnapps is the best stimulant procur-
able.


A
V. L Film ft BL
LIMITED,
356 George-straotp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
THE NEW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
89 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
tas, Lawson Bros., & Go.,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, aud bought for
eash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &c.,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
FOMEROT-CHAMBBRS,
CASTLEREAGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Every Souse.
ALINOXIOUS
FLEAS.FLIES.BEETLES MOSQUITOES
AND
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIIVIALS
sdf
m
n
if*
0 s
gsdf
gs
FELTON-CRIMWADEV.C®
> -MELBOURNE.—
Wanted in Every House.
fl
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Suss*! Street, Sydney.
YANKEE DOODLE
tyjSKK UOOOit
0/ *£on & So* s
—'■-SV D N
m
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
DIXSOM & SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
lossesa the largest Factory, Manufacture more
tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
10R SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, an sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description-
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes,
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all Sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
w
ILL! AM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
*1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instrument?? ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST JPRICJE.
NO COMMISSION 'CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow Bacall
the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. N<iNNE3 & CO..
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 PITT STREET, STREET, N.S.TV
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
dfg
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE tor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. od., or 255. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MA KBHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Markfet-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine uniess bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
ULlnerx G-Xoss
Nervous debility cured.-l > man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fra h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, eontai i
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Eiidern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
21 YORE STREET,
BYDNEY.J
ik
f X
(Vyft
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE*
THE OLD ESTABLISHED .
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
lar.EVißr vehicle qcaiunteed,


SOCIALS
The ball which was given in Bathurst to
his Excellency the Governor and Lady Carington
was a great success. Many visitors from Sydney,
well known in society, besides all the leading
people of Bathurst, were present. The School of
Arts, in which the ball was held, was beautifully
decorated with flags, flowers, and evergreens.
The vice-regal party were received by Dr. Cortis,
Mayor of Bathurst, the Hon. W. H. Suttor, and
Mr. Greville. Lady Carington wore a very b scorn-
ing gown of blue satin; the Hon. Miss fiarbord
looked well in black net, relieved with cardinal
lace, fan of cardinal ostrich feathers; Mrs. Cortis
wore a trained robe of pink and fawn moire; Mrs.
Frank Suttor. in black lace; Miss Suttor also wore
black; Mi°s Ethel Suttor, in straw-coloured satin
and cream lace.
* * *
The Petersham folk held their first social
of the season last Friday night, in the local Town
Hall. Music and floor were both excellent, and
the dance was quite a success.
* * *
The eleventh meeting of the Newington
College sports was held at Stanmore, last Satur-
day, and was attended by a large crowd of friends
and relatives of the boys. Some roughs, however,
managed to get on to the ground, and quite spoilt
the fun for the ladies, by rushing the ropes at
each event, thus completely intercepting the
view.
* * *
Mons. Kowalski has generously offered to
form a “Philharmonic class,” at which he pro-
poses to coach up beginners and qualify them to
join the choru3 of the Philharmonic Society free
of charge. Numerous applications to join have
already been made, and the scheme cannot
fail to ultimately strengthen the Philharmonic
which is the object the conductor has in view.
The society is at present actively rehearsing
“ Vercingetorix ” (Kowalski) which they propose
to produce in June next.
* * *
Dr. and Mrs. Harman Tarrant give a dance
at the new Masonic Hall, Sydney, on 27th April.
* * *
A committee of gentlemen entertained a
number of their lady friends at a pleasant social
evening at Nowra, recently. Some exceed-
ingly handsome toilettes were worn, notably that
of Miss Lillie Hodgkinson, which was a combina-
tion of blue and black. Another local lady was
charming in pure white; whilst Miss Hodgkinson
wasattractive in pale pink jupe, with black velvet
bodice. It is intended to continue these socials
throughout the season.
* * *
The Liverpool people are gushing about
their subscription ball which eventuated last week
in their Town Hall. Many wore fancy dresses,
which, judging from all accounts, must have been
samethiog good to look upon; and the eveaing
dresses were “ superb,” “ tasteful,” “ charming,”
*’ chic,” and so on. The programme consisted of
27 dances, the Sydney contingent getting away
just in time to catch the early morning train.
* * *
The brother of Lady Carington is at pre-
sent a guest at Government House.
* * *
A very pretty wedding was solemnised at
Trinity Church, Melbourne, on the 14th of April,
when Mr. O. Morrice Williams, of the Bank of
Autralasia, Queensland, was united to Miss Katie
Swallow, of Port Melbourne. The bride wore
ivory satin bodice, and long train, over a petticoat
of satin, richly embroidered in silver, handsomely
trimmed with soft lace. A coronet of orange
blossoms, covered with along white veil caught
up with a diamond star and arrow. She carried an
enormous bouquet. The bridegroom's gift was
a diamond bangle. The bridesmaids were seven
in number; the four elder ones all dressed alike,
in white embroidere i muslin, with sashes of white
moire silk; a small humming-bird in the centre of
marabout was fastened at the neck and in the
hair. The two other maids were the tiny
nieces of the bride and were costumed in
white lace and moire ribbon; all of them wore
pin brooches—the design, a spray of pearls—the
gift of the bridegroom. Attn© conclusion of the
ceremony, the guests adjourned to the residence
of the bride’s parents. The bride's travelling
dress was a brown astrakhan, trimmed with brown-
bear fur and plush; a chic little toque of plush
completed this oharming costume. The honey-
moon is to be spent on tae Blue Mountains, after
which they will proceed to Queensland.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mr. Huenerbein’s first concert, Masonic
Hall April 23.
Lady Carington's social evening, Govern-
ment House ". April 27.
Sydney Social, Leigh House April 27.
Dr. and Mrs. Harman Tarrant’s dance,
New Masonic Hall April 27.
Base Ball Match, Moore Park May 1.
M. Kowalski’s first concert, Masonic Hall.. May 3.
Eastern Suburbs A A Club Annual Sports
Meeting, Association Cricket Ground.. May 24
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— lt was a treat to have some-
thing really nice to go to on Saturday after the
very questionable amusements of the previous
nart of the week. This really nice thing was the
opening of the N.S.W. Art Society's Exhibition.
I didn’t attond tbe private (afternoon) view, fori
thought a double dose of art in one day would be
nuite too overpowering. In the evening, about
8 His Excellency, looking rather fagged, and Lord
Bertie, looking decidedly dude-ish, put in an ap-
pearance and set things going. After a very long
soeech from Mr. Dalgarno, the Society’s vice-pre-
sident, ia which he told us a heap of things we
knew before, and a few more tltfngs that weren’t
particularly interesting, an illuminated address
was presented to tli a Governor, who tried very
hard to look as though he hadn’t expected it. His
Lordship thereupon made a few remarks which
he said he had just jotted down-by the way
though I never know that people coula jot down
things in print. However, he read out his re-
marks very pleasantly, but that part of his speech
which ho hadn't jotted down was a long way the
best It soemod to oorne more from the hoart,
and he has quite a chatty way of speaking with-
out being too “ high-flown.” He told us what we
have long expected to hear, and that was that
Lady Carington was tired. And no wonder, for it
seems to me she never has a moment to call her
own. So then she wasn’t present at tha opening
of the show, but is, I believe, to attend some day
this week. That wonderful old gentleman, Sir
Alfred Stephen, sat upon the dais with the Go-
vernor a greater part of the evening, and seemed
to take as much interest in the affair as the most
aspiring young artist present. Three score yesra
and ten seems to me a long time to live, and I
always fancy that by that time people must be
quite “full” and ready to go; but here is Sir
Alfred past his four score still, taking a vivid in-
terest in his fellow-creatures and in the hanging
of pictures. I do hope he won’t be thwarted in
his Divorce Blil!
During a slight pause in the proceedings caused
by Mr. Huenerbein’s losing hims9lf in the crowd
when he should have been at the piano to start the
concert, we heard the following conversation just
behind us:—“And who is that tall, melancholy-
looking man with the weird eyes looking our
way?” “Oh, that’s Ashton, one of our cleverest
artists.” “ Mr. Ashton, is it ? Well, I’m so glad to
have seen him, for a friend of mine showed me a
lovely painting of his which he calls ‘ Aground.’
He is just the kind of man I should imagine could
paint beautiful pictures. Now tell me, is that
little fair man who is bowing to somebody just
near us, an artist, too?” “I should just say so.
Why that is Livingstone Hopkins, the comic
artist.” “Well, to be sure I I thought he was
something of the kind—he looks just as a comic
artist ought to look. I don’t think I ever saw two
men whose faces fit into their professions as those
two, especially the comic one.” Now, this to me
was intensely funny, seeing that the serious-
visaged man was really the comic artist, and the
other the painter; but it just shows you can’t
always guage a man’s profession by his coun-
tenance.
That clever literary friend of ours, Miss Amy
Gordon Hollinworth, was married last week in
St. John’s r hurch. Brisbane, to Mr. T. C. C. Coven-
try, of Johstone River, Queensland. Shtfwas ever
a favourite with the sterner sex, and one of the
pleaaantbst girls I know. Captain Heath’s
daughter was married to Lieutenant J. L. Marx,
of the Swinger, the same week, and I think it was
a happy idea to have the six bridesmaids clad in
dresses made sailor fashion, don’t you ? It seems to
have been quite a gay wedding, though a friend
writes me that the day was miserably wet until
4 o'clock, when the ceremony took place. But I
think it is just the happiest possible omen for the
sun to push aside the clouds and smile upon the
proceedings just in the nick of time, as it did on
this particular day. Captain and Mrs. Heath en-
tertained his Excellency the Governor and Lady
Musgrave, and.other distinguished guests, at their
residence subsequent to the ceremony.
My curiosity has been whetted ever sines I heard
about the Japanese Village which is monopolising
the Exhibition Building, and which is to be opened
to the public next Saturday. I hear it is progress-
ing favourably, and I am sure it will be great fun.
You know, of course, that a walking-match has
been contested in the same building during the
past week between Scott and Edwards, but I ex-
pect you are just about as much interested in that
as I am; you may, however,tell Frank that crowds
of men smoking bad tobacco collected in the build-
ing nightly in order to be entertained by watching
two men trying to outwalk each other. I want to
know what comes of all this labour, but Ned says
it’s gratifying to see what a lot men can endure.
But why can’t they try their endurance on some-
thing which would be beneficial to either them-
selves or somebody else. It seems to me a fearful
waste of time and labour just walking up and
down a buildißg—What say you, my Belle?
Men talk about our being “uncertain, coy, and
hard to please,” but although they may not be un-
certain nor coy, still it strikes me they are mighty
hard to please in some things. I was reading some
reviews in one of our local papers the other day
on American magaziues, and to my astonishment
the reviewer actually declares that these books
are deteriorating both in matter and engravings I
He speaks quite bitterly of their cheap processes,
which they use in lieu of steel or wood engravings,
and instances one magazine in particular in which
he says art pictures are reproduced in such a poor
manner that one can form no idea whatever of the
originals. Now, just out of curiosity, I opened
this same magazine, and upon close examination I
discovered that every illustration, with one very
small exception, was either a steel or very fine
wood engraving: s>, in my very humble opinion,
this reviewer doesn't quite know what he is
talking about. Really, if ever 1 come across
him I am sure I shall have to quarrel with him,
for, after all, what magazines can beg in to compare
with those of America ? And aren’t those Har-
per’s Bazars I sent you just lovely ? It is quite
true the Americans do use cheap processes for
most of their illustrations, but even if they are
cheap they certainly aren’t nasty. The reviewer
was quite unfortunate in singling out for his
abuse a magazine which has been somewhat
slower than the rest in adopting the new pro-
cesses. It speaks rather well far the cheap pro-
cesses I should say. There I I feel better now,
but I can’t bear to have good things abused.
Ned, came home very wrathy from the cricket
match which was played at the Victoria Bar-
racks the other day between the navy and mili-
tary. It seems that owing to the splendid batting
of a gunner the military won, but when all ad-
journed for refreshments the clever batsman and
the umpire, who was also a gunner, were left on
the field, and were never asked to quench their
thirst because they weren’t officers ?
Edith came back from Melbourne last week, and
is quite taken with the Cake Fair idea. She wants
to set something of the same kind of thing afloat
here, but I am afraid we are altogether too proud
to follow in the wake of the Melbourne ladies. We
prefer to be original, you know, or do nothing,
especially the latter. Edith came back by water,
and seems to have been quite entertained by the
antics and conversation of two little boys, sons of
a clergyman. They began the voyage, childlike,
in fine spirits, and were all over the ship in no
time, but gradually their movements got slower
and slower, and their laughter a bit forced, till at-
la“t they confessed they felt as if they would like
to go to bed and didn't want any supper. And in
the middle of the night a piping voice was heard
to say: “I say, Jim, are you awake?” “Yes,
that I am—wish 1 wasnt-are you?” A pause
then. “ Say, Jim, would you rather go to Sunday
school or be sea sick?” Just here there was a
slight hesitation before Jim answered, but the
steamer gave an extra big lurch which just
decided him to declare he preferred even
Sunday school to that sort of thing. Of course,
you have heard about the clergyman who, upon
being informed by the captain that he had done
all in his power to save the ship, and that all that
was left to them was to trust in Providence,
clasped his hands together, and m an agonising
voice exclaimed: “ Great Heavens I and has it
come to that! ” Clergymen can be funny too
sometimes, but I don’t believe they ever mean
to be.
We intended visiting the Japs, last week,
but the weather was so un-tempting that we had
to deny ourselves the pleasure. They leave for
Auckland this week, so unless we hurry, we
shan’t get on board their ship after all. Both
officers and crew seem very fond of doing our
block, and really, though you will hardly believe
it, some of them are quite handsome.
Miss Edith O'Gorman, the escaped nun, has
been lecturing in town and suburbs, to very
large audiences, who were apparently interested
in all she told them about her oonvent life. I did
not attend any of the lectures, simply because I
don’t want to hear the poor nuns spoken ill of,
for though there may be some bad oues still
among them, I, who do not profess their religion,
can’t help thinking that, they are good creatures
in the main. Not that I hold with them in retiring
fromthu world and making martyrs of themselves,
lor 1 am sure a woman can do more good outsido
a convent than inside the sacred walls: she has
more scope, you know. But, anyhow, even put-
ting aside all Miss O’Gorman has to say, I fancy
things would have to come to a pretty pass before
I would get me to a nunnery. I don’t suppose they
would let me write to you if I took the veil
which would just break my heart right away.
And then I don’t see how I should have any means
of knowing whether hats were worn high or low,
or whether improvers still reigned, for a nun is
never supposed to use her eyes in the streets, and
there would be no Ned handy to scold, and pet,
and tease. Oh, no, I won’t be a nun, but your ever
devoted
Gossip,
M.A.B.
From the ineffably calm and now cele-
brated official “ memorandum ” supplied by Mr.
Barnet, Colonial Architect of N.8.W., in re the
monstrosities with which the facade of that ex-
pensive but by no means lovely pile, the Sydney
Post Office, has been further disfigured, we ex-
tract this paragraphlt may be said what is my
opinion worth. 1 have only to point to my many
work B, beginning 30 years back with the University,
unto this la*t, and to state that I have promoted
and encouraged more than anyone else in New
South Wales, sculpture, decorative carving, and
painting, certainly often under adverse and un-
pleasant circumstances, and that my art know-
ledge was obtained from the teaching of the late
W. Dyce, R.A.. and I studied architecture under
the late C. J. Richardson, P.8.A., F.K.1.8.A., and
that on January 18 last, at the instance of a fellow-
student, now a member of the counoil, I was
elected a fellow of the Royal Institute of British
Architects.” The lines we have italicised may lead
many to suppose that Mr, Barnet was the designer
of the Bydney University, the hall whereof is ac-
counted by artists as the most beautiful piece of
architecture on Australian soil. We, therefore,
deem it necessary to Btate that the architect of
Sydney University wss the late Mr. B. T. Blacket,
whose a*rms and motto are to be seen at the south
end of the building.
Some of the best jokes of the N.S.W. Bar
have been manufactured out of alleged perform-
ances of the great (we don’t use the word here in
any special sense) David Buchanan. For years
David has made it the grand object of his life to
create a depression in the hemp trade by depriving
the gallows of its rightful prey, and has struggled
—non ine gloria—to prevent the overcrowding of
the gaols of the colony by allowing most desirable
tenants of such institutions to remain unham-
pered by State attention. But in the sunset of his
career, he. probably repenting of his past efforts,
consented to appear as the minister of the law,
and accepted a commission to prosecute for the
Crown at the Mudgee Circuit Court. The result of
his exertions to obtain convictions was identical
with that which attended his efforts to prove the
angelio innocence of his clients in former days,
for—and this is the latest joke against Davie,
all the prisoners were acquitted except one who
was foolish enough to plead guilty. Th's fact is
easily explained. There are old jurymen at
Mudgee-good and true men who were doing duty
when Plain BUI attended the Court for moderate
fees—to whom the spectacle of David Buchanan
prosecuting for the Crown would be an incompre-
hensible thing. They know his addresses by heart,
and the impassioned appeals which he made the
other day as Crown Prosecutor were apparently
regarded as able addresses for the defence by the
Salons of Gum Flat Gulch, who are not yet accus-
tomed to the new order of things. Judge Win-
deyer lately complained that the gaols were be-
coming too crowded for comfort. But it was not,
8S might be supposed, this judicial murmur that
induced the authorities to put Dawvid on as
Crown Prosecutor at Mudgee, although envious
barristers do say that the appointment prevented
additions to the gaol population.
THE ANACONDA.
In the woods of Central America a creature
exists which is known as the Anaconda. This is a
serpent of enormous size, which crushes a buffalo
or a deer within its folds as easily as a man with a
patent set of nature’s dentistry cracks a walnut.
Its breath is poison to all human beings who come
within its influence. It is one of those terrible and
revolting creatures which typify evil, and which,
to use Wordsworth’s words:—
“One impulsive from a vernal wood
May teach you more of man,
Of moral evil and of good,
Than all the sages can.’’
Surrounded by all the luxuriance of tropical
vegetation, this horrible creature, perfect in its
hideousness, stretched along a limb of some gi-
gantic tree, waits placidly for its victims. These,
browsing in unconsciousness of the presence of
danger, or haply, frisking merrily upon the sward,
are suddenly gripped in deadly toils, crushed be-
slavered, and swallowed.
This is, surely, a practical picture of evil. One
might well consider that this oreature, the Ana-
conda, is an embodiment of the Satan, of whom
Milton wrote:—
“3o farewell hope, and with hope farewell fear,
Farewell remorse; all good to me is lost.
Evil be thou my good. ”
We can best recognise evil in this practical as-
pect. But, alas! evil sometimes encompasses the
wisest man, and gathers him within its toils ere he
knows it, and when he knows it, all too late. Moral
—disease creeps upon a man as surely as physical
ailment, and
• ‘ Evil is wrought by want of thought,
As well as want of heart,’ ’
Well, then, is it for him who guards against the
approaches of the foe—assured that only by keep-
ing his physical system wholesome, he can maintain
his mind and spirituality uncorrupted. The Ana-
conda of disease awaits ua at every turn. We never
dream of its presence until, perhaps, too late, and
when gathered irrevocably in its toils. Take, for
example, Bright’s disease of the kidneys; the victim
knows not what ails him; often, indeed, his medical
attendant is unable to diagnose his case—setting
it down to exhaustion, dyspepsia, ordinary kidney
troubles. The characteristic of Bright’s disease is
that the victim is all along ignorant of the dire
peril which threatens him. He sees not the terrible
Anaconda. He feels languid, loses flush and weight,
is miserable and hipped, but thinks that a few
ordinary tonics will put him straight. Miserable
delusion 1 Mr. John Water worth, of 63 Dargham
street, Lyndhuret, Sydney, knows better. He says
that “ during the last eight months of 1883, I was
laid up. I suffered the greatest agony—pains in
my scrotum and down the inside of my thighs,
across my back, up my spine-ending in frightful
headaches. My urine was thick and muddy. I
had no rest—neither in bed nor out of it. I tried
several physicians, who all told me I was suffering
from a severe form of Bright's disease, and one
doctor advised me to go into the hospital, as I could
not possibly live more t horn a few months. A friend
of mine sent me a cutting from an American
paper, concerning Warner’s safe!cure, a medicine
which had cured a person suffering from that
dread disease. The symptoms described were like
my own, and I wrote at once to H H. Warner, of
Rochester, New York, U.S.A., and received a re-
ply, telliug me to send to Ban Francisco for the
cure. This was, of course, before the establish-
ment of the laborrtory in Melbourne, which was
done iu May, 1885. I am rejoiced that this invalu-
able medicine may be now procured in the colo-
nies. I procured a dozen bottles from San Fran-
cisco, and was cured. I was freed from pain, and
have now sound health, and have gained 35 lbs. in
weight, working hard at very laborious occupation
every day. Unhesitatingly 1 recommend Warner’s
safe cure.” Many who read Mr. Waterwosth’s
testimony will, perhaps, recall their own inexplic-
able sufferings. Tney will be wise if they follow
his example, and appeal to a remedy which has
been weighed carefully, and has not been found
wanting. The most prejudiced and obstinate must
yield before evidence wnich is oased upon a grate-
ful experience, and which is the utterance of one
wno has been snatohed from the Anaconda of
disease.
My medical experience satisfies me that Wolfe's
ScfiNAPPS is an excellent stimulant.
F
UINIIUII IMOW ROOMS
BRAD LB Y, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Oonnell and Spring atreeta, Sydney.
fg
A
FBTRIAN CHAIRS,
in
Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and
LAMR.
B
H
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
assortmeat, Many quite new designs.
Alii. FURNITURE, MATSTANDB, IMI
CHAIRS, LARCH ASSORTMENT.
I" IBRARY FURNITURE, CBNTRB and SID
IJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy ot
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, *O.
YBRY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
sdf
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS,
for camping: out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/6 »
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fesi
wardrobes, or with
smaller wardrobes tor single
rooms, Great variety. BRADLEY, NJJWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from Ids.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.}
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80a;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
UVUNI VUIIiOJLUCJLO| AJLVSJJJ. WD» ' vvuw* "
from 43105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
jBY
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLBI
NEWTON, k LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Bite
RON SAFES
various sizes.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB.
»»»f tr riAiMui!UiviU) guanuitniu iouuu
ogOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Drawing-room furniture—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
LEGANT NOVELTIES in BEDROOM FUR-
NITURE. full suites, in SATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
gsdf
Iches'ts,
■with cup-
boards, all
sizes, from
275.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
acd
LAMB.
gs
GARDEN SEATS, 20b: Verandah Chairr,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.;
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 305.; and
large variety of Chairs, &o.; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
dfgs
c
ANVAS F.OLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and light, suit*
able for shipboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB.
SELF -A DJ USTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented,
'mis chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous position!
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body#
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds CQm-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when f( ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
C~ OPYING PRESSES. Jl RAD LEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
dfg
PATENT SANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
ELASTIC WOVEN WIRE
MaTTRASSES (Rowcliffe
and Co.’s patent), made on
a new principle.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACK ETS-NoveltieS
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6. _____
Elegant Venetian mikrorsT riohiy
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, ana
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
sdf
Amekican patent
SHUT-UP CLOTHE 3
JJKOHS.
Each dryer gives 135 square
feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6x8,1i/6;Bx 8„1)/-; oxB,
9/6 ; 10 X 8.10/6: 12 x 8,14/6; 111 x 10, 16/6.
BRADLEY, KfEWTON, and LAMB,


Woman Tiems
“Low and behold a deoollete dress.
She’s got him at last. No Russian lady
can travel without her husband’s assent to the
issue of her passport, but in Austria woman’s
right to a veto has just been recognized. It is now
decreed that no married Austrian subject shall
henceforth receive a passport for journeying be
yond the frontier, without the express consent of
his wife.
The Duke of Portland, the richest bachelor
nobleman in England, is going to marry Miss
Langdon, a rich and beautiful Amiricaine. The
Duke is the man for whom the famously funny
“rosebud party ” was given in London last season.
Sixty girls gave a dance, to which each was tq in-
vite five men. and every one of them sent an invi-
tation to the Duke, so that he got 60, He calmly
stayed at home.
t.. The determination of the Queen to exclude
anything in the shape of a newspaper representa-
tive from the recent circus performance at Wind-
sor Castle, was frustrated by one enterprising
journalist, who dressed himself up as a groom and
held up paper hoops for the equestriennes to jump
through. This dauntless Individual came very
near discovery, for his very literary-looking spec-
tacles did not favour the impression that he was a
circus-groom, and were the subject of Royal
remark.
Archdeacon Druitt, of Cooma, N.S.W.,
who has just returned from a trip to England,
says that in a village in Dorsetshire, where glove-
making has been an occupation of the women for
generations, the poor creatures are glad to earn
twopence a day in sewing the fine kid gloves
which the ladies pay high prices for here, for
only one pair can be made in a day, and that is the
remuneration. Ten and twelve shillings a week are
the full wages of a farming man, and many that
the Archdeacon spoke to were only earning seven
or eight shillings a week.
Boxing as a ladies’ recreation is gaining
in favour in the States. Several professorsjuow
devote themselves entirely to the instruction of
female pupils, but find an almost insuperable
difficulty in teaching them to hit with the closed
fist, as a woman’s one fixed and immovable
maxim in life seems to be that nails were specially
made for pugilistic purposes. Gloves are specially
made for girls to enable them to keep their fives
doubled, but even these are not sufficient, and the
athletic maidens receive constant injury in the
vicinity of the knuckles as a result of their open-
handed hitting, From the reports of the profes-
sors it does not seem likely that the belt will be
taken from Sullivan by a woman for quite a con-
siderable long time. Now that women are learn-
ing scientific sparring, some professors will doubt-
less come forward to instruct the gentler half of
creation in the art of using saxifrageous fragments
as a means of chastising the rashly offending
rooster.
The Queen paid Princess Beatrice’s wed-
ding expenses. They figured up to £5OOO. Batten-
berg tried Wales hard to lend him three half-
crowns the day before the wedding so that he
might have something to spend, but Wales said
the times were bard. He would, however, ad-
vance him ss. without interest, but Bat. must
distinctly understand that he was not to come
again. “You are quarrying my sister,” said the
generous Prince, as he counted over the money
with tears trickling down his beard, “ but you’re
not marrying the whole family, mind. Me and
the Princess have a heavy family to support.
You’ve no idea what it costs to keep our crowd in
boots.” But Beatrice probed the secret of his
gloom. She gave him a whole sovereign, and
told him he could keep the change, and on his
wedding day no haughtier, happier German Prince
ever trod the earth in sure and certain hope of
three square British meals a day gratis.
There is a proud and domineering oli-
garchy in Maitland. Listen to the hysterics of a
lady correspondent of the local Mercury:—. . .
“ I must allude to the secret manner in which the
present to Lady Carington (an album of views) is
being arranged: this was not alluded to in the
general committee until the views had been abso-
lutely taken. I contend that when the funds had
been collected from the public not one penny
should have been diverted from its original pur-
pose, the presentation of an address, without tho
sanction of the general committee. This present
is, I understand, to be made from the ladies of
East Maitland. (How many of them have even
heard of it ?) And it is to be offered by a certain
few. Who have been selected, who omitted in
this list ? Oh, what heart-burnings, what seeds of
future bitterness, are being sown in what ought
to be a matter of general rejoicing and unani-
mity I” From which it is plain that somebody will
shortly get her face scratched.
The Sydney correspondent of the Austra-
lasian—who is an official high in the N.S.W. Civil
service—says he knows a virago who, if Sir
Alfred Stephen’s Divorce Bill passed, would in
a very few weeks be liberated from matrimonial
fetters:Her chief amusement is to shy the
crockery at her husband’s head, then pretend
hysterics, and, after much deplorable excitement
of the nervous system, she retires to her room,
and looks herself in, with no other companion than
a flask of brandy. This has been her programme
for several years. But she is a handsome creature,
and, if divorced, would be certain to marry again,
and shy the crockerv at her second spouse, and
perhaps at her third. That virago deserves to be
judicially separated, if you like, but it would be
the extremity of legal cruelty to turn her adrift
in the matrimonial world to secure another target
for the dinner service. But what about her pre-
sent husband? Surely he would gladly escape
from such a revolting bondage. So anybody
Would think. But, as a matter of fact, he Is more
onsiderate to his throe daughters thau to himself,
He is content to be sorely wounded on his pate
every month or so. provided his sufferings are
kept out of Judge Windeyer’s court, and his girls’
names out of public mouth.”
She was a beautiful barmaid, and she en-
hanced the hideousness of her calling by delight-
ing her customers with sparkling epigrams and
olever conundrums. The hope and heir of the
Jumbuck family was having his usual sixpen’orth,
and she asked him, archly: “ Who is this? it is
not my brother, nor is it my sister; still it is my
father's child.” He rapidly engulphed another
nip, and his strong brain whirled: but he gave
it up. “ Why, you baby,” she laughed, “ that is
myself. “By gad,” he said, “soitis 1’ And he
went forth into the night. And it was the evening
of the same day at dinner in Jumbuekville, when
the conversation flowed gaily across the walnuts
and the wine that hesaw his opportunity. Gently
draining his twenty-seventh goblet of Foster, te
asked: T ‘ Can you tell me who it is that is not my
brother, nor my sister, and still my father’s
child ? ” “ Why, Johnny, that’s yourself,” replied
his fair neighbour. “ I knew you would not guess
it,” he replied, with an aristocratic sneer. “ It’s
the barmaid at the Shearers’ Arms.”
M. Bernier, of Noumea, requests all who
want to see peculiar manifestations of human love
to come to New Caledonia and inspect the gaol-rs -
gisters. Tne freshest case he cites is interesting.
A woman named Chevallier had, it appears, been
lound guilty some time ago of murdering htr
husband in France, and, after sentence, was duly
relegated to Ne w Caledonia. Here she suoceedea
in procuring another husband, and after a few
doses of connubial bliss she and an accomplice
called Dedien broke his head open. Dedien dealt
the chief blows, but it was proved that she en-
couraged the performer by crying: “Hit him
again, Dedien; hit him again; he is of not the
slightest account.” At all events her second hus-
band was killed, and she was shut up closer than
before. It is at this stage M. Bernier exhibits a
curiosity in a late number of L’lkdependant. A
love-sick swain in Noumea addresses to her the
following billet:— 1 “ Madame Widow Chevallier,—
I take the liberty of writing to you to ask you if
you will accept my hand. We shall have a tran-
quil life, we tvo, dear. We shall have,a happy
life, we two, dear. Ido not wish to alarm you or
compliment you any further, but finish my letter
by offering you my hand and heart.” The letter
is authentic and the circumstances nakedly true.
M. Bernier makes no mistake when he adds that
that man possesses courage above his kind.
The Melbourne Parliamentary Debating
Society discussed the blistering subject of female
suffrage, last week. The first orator would send
the softer sex to the poll. “ Woman, lovely
woman,” said he, “ We have limited to the needle,
the baby and the washtub.” No fear-not many.
We know a number of citizens who cheerfully let
her light the morning fire, and get up to take in
the milk. A lady-speaker wanted to know: “ Why
girls cannot have the same physical education as
boys? A boy plays leap-frog, climb 3 fences, and
no end, while a girl is tied to her mother s apron
strings, and told that such things are unladylike.”
She thought girls should play leap frog, and scale
the barrier twixt their appetites and a well-stocked
fruit garden, and run after circuses, and whip be-
hind cabs, and all that, We don’t think the aver-
age girl would shine muoh at these things, though,
epee telly leap-frog. She isn’t built for it. Another
strong-minded woman took a fall out of that
bald-headed, miserable prong, the lord of creation.
“ Man was head of affairs, was he ? Well, his wife
was the neck, and he couldn’t move without her.”
Too true, Arabella, and in that position she’s often
next to nothing. A man had the last word (fact).
He thought that if our wives hope to share our
privileges they ought to share our trials. They
ought to take up the shovel and the hoe, split
wood, go bald, pay bills, and sew on buttons,
sometimes.
As we are not at all likely to lead a blush-
ing bride to either the altar’s sacred steps or the
registrar’s ink-stained counter for the next 50
years, we smile sardonically at the fact that the
cheerful old colonial custom of tin-kettling newly-
wedded couples is steadily on the increase. Very
lately, at Trunkey, N.8.W., five festive residents
were committed to the Bathurst Assizes for mak-
ing the nuptial night of a piir of loving neigh-
bours hideous with a Wagnerian concert of kero-
sene-tins and cow-bells. A similar performance
was in progress near Brisbane about the same
time, but in the latter case the jokers “found the
grin set round on the wrong sicie of their jowls.”
A selector bad taken to himself a wife, and
anxious to give the pair a good send-off. nine
“youog bloods’’ rode out after dark to the
selector's homestead, 11 miles from town, and after
fastening their horses to the fence, they trooped
up to the bridal bower, and began to “ raise Cain.”
As it happened, however, the newly-hitched pair
were so full of their own soulful joy that they
didn’t mind the Japanese serenade in the least; in
fact, it seemed to rather tickle the happy bride-
froom, for after an hour or so he came to the
oor, bowed his thanks, and hoped his friends
would make themselves quite at home in the
bush, and enjoy a pleasant evening. This so
sickened the jokers that they decided to push for
home, but on reaching the spot where they had
hitched their Arab steeds they were crushed to
the earth at finding nine empty bridles hanging to
the fence, and their horses non est. At daybreak
next morning nine weary wanderers, with bridles
across their arms, were to be seen sorrowfully
walking home from the wedding-feast by the dirt
road.
Another brand has been pluoked from the
burning. Mr. James Munro, the water prophet,
has bought up the Melbourne Grand Hotel, and
will purify it into a coffee palace. A copper tea-
urn will stand where stood the flowing claret-
bowl, and the fanoy whisky-barrels will be re-
placed by filters. The beery laugh of the scoffer
will be hushed and the saintly snuffle of the par-
son will resound alopg the corridors. The Grand
Hotel wasn’t a stupendously cheerful establish-
ment, but it deserved a better fate than this.
Never mind—Hallelujah!
An attempt, recently made in London, to
float the Indian Mysore Gold-mi Ding Company,
got a fearful showing-up from Vanity Fair,
which proved the mine to have been bought five
years ago for £4500, and although previous
he'ders have done nothing with it the present
owners proposed to appropriate for their own
benefit about £790,000 out of the nominal capi-
tal of £1,000,0001 Indian mines are becoming
popular as a means of ridding the bloated capital-
ist! of London of their surplus coin, and as Eng-
lishmen seem to have an inherent fondness for gold-
miniDg it is a pity that more investments of
British capital have not been made in some of
the Australian fields. The only gold-mine in
Queensland in which English capital is directly
embarked is that excellent claim the Disraeli, once
the property of Mr. W. Pritchard Morgan, at
whose instance a British company took it over.
A comparatively small outlay of foreign capital
judiciously expended might likely enough open
up another Day Dawn or even a second Mount
Morgan. But to attain such a result the direction
of affairs must be under the control of competent
men with colonial experience. It is no use sending
out either a titled owl, or an egotistical geologist,
although either may have a dozen letters after
his name, to control the affairs of a mine in Aus-
tralia. Geologists condemned Gympie, and it was
in opposition to their united opinion that the field
was afterwards developed and made to yield
millions.
GONE.
Gone! My Nelly! Gone where?
From me, me whom she loved so well,
Tis false, ’tis a lie, but to torture me this idle tale
you tell.
Why,'man, it was only yesternight I left the farm,
and she
Stood there at the little garden-gate, to say “ good-
bye ” to me;
I see her now with her silky hair—her bright eyes
upward thrown;
I hoar her voice, which I loved so well—none
sweeter in its tone.
Ah I here she is—what, my little girl, they said
you’d left me, but
I knew ’twas a four-horse kind of man could steal
my setter-slut.
Will you love me, little darling, in the days to
come, as now,
When my locks are streaked with silver, and deep
furrows marks my brow;
Will your kisses be as ardent? will your paision
ne’er grow cold ?
Tell me, little blue-eyed darling, will you love me
when I’m old?
“ Yes,” she murmured, and her blue eyes gazed
into his orbs of night;
“ I will always love you, Charley, dearest—don’t
hold on so tight;
Just s'ack up a little, sweetheart—that's much
better—you’re a dear;
Perhaps you didn’t know your collar has been
sticking in my ear.
COMPENSATION.
The Lord unto the masher’s good,
For see how nioe he looks;
We realise those splendors now
We’ve read about in books.
He gave him that delightful bang,
Tnat collar, stiff and high;
That single-barrelled eye-glass, too,
That fits his English eye.
He gave him those expensive cuffs,
He gave that elbow-crook—
A cross betweea a dog’s hind leg
And some old ragman’s hook.
He gave those clothes of latest cut,
The patent-leather shoe,
The heavy oane, the zebra gloves,
The socks of gold and blue.
From crown to Bole a perfect fit,
A something bound to please;
The lilies of the field are not
Arrayed so nice as these.
The Lord unto the masher’s good;
He equalises gains
By giving all these lovely things
To take the place of brains.
A TOWNSVILLIAN BALLAD.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In the twilight, oh I my darling,
As we wandered by the creek,
And your heart went pitter-patter
As I kissed you on the cheek;
When you spoke in accents winning,
Low and scornful, words like this:
“ Cheeks are good enough for children,
Lips were made for men to kies
When at last we, on the hillside,
Sat and watched the rising moon,
D.d you, could you, guess, nay darling,
We should be disturbed so soon!
I was mad, but you seemed madder,
Were you disappointed, too ?
When we heard that stealthy rustling
And you yelled, “ What shall I do ?”
Do not blame me too much, darling
(That is, if you are not “ eat ”)
If my heart failed for the moment
And my drumsticks beat retreat
When that alligator’s “ phisog. ”
Seemed to open wide with glee,
It was best to leave you then, dear,
Rough on you, but best for me-
lt was time to "get,” my darling,
Leave you to his nibs and flee.
CONSOLATION.
Poor old Paddy lay a dying, on a distant Southern
station,
Where for years he’d lived and laboured for a
weekly wage and ration,
He was cld, and grey, and withered, his few locks
were thinly scattered,
And the boys knew Pat. was going, though that
little to them mattered;
Till the old man, somewhat doubtful of his final
destination.
Whispered, “ Mat., go bring the praste, boy, I want
final ‘ consultation.’ ”
Then the rafters rung with laughter, of the stock-
men’s cacchination,
Astney howled: “Just hear what Paddy calls his
final ‘ constellation.’ ”
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, ftad is h&biy recommended by medical men,
Wolfe's Schnapps is the only genuine
Schnapps— Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
Wolfe's Schnapps.— No nervous suffeaer ever
tried this wholesome stimulant without being
thankful.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
7
ELEGANT CHINA TEA SET,
44 pieces, 10s.
People ask how it is done, but that it is done
there is proof positive in the fact that we are sell-
ing them by hundreds. They are strong, prettily
coloured, delicately put together, and altogether
cheap, neat, and calculated to make a cup of good
Bohea go down with an extra relish. They can
only be prooured from
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT et CIE.t
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are now
open in the Royal Arcade.
Messrs. C. & Co. have engaged an efficient staff
of Artists for all branches in art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have been trained in the
leading European establishments.
Mr. Thomas C. Cleave (who has had the dis-
tinguished honour of photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H.s the
Prince and Princess of Wales, many members of
the Royal Family, also the Prince Imperial and
other notables) will personally superintend the
studio work.
Our portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
and Excellent, and we invite inspection of our
work exhibited in the Vestibule, leading to our
Studios.
CHARLEMONT et CIE.
QUDNG TART & CO.
Have opened tea booms in hoedern
BROTHERS New Establishment in PITT
STREET, and the Ladies of Sydney, when fatigued
with the labour or shopping, will find a Cup of
their LooDg Shan Tea invigorating and refresh-
ing.
QITONG TART & CO.
Eastor Holidays, 1886.
EVERYONE SHOULD SEE
THE CELEBRATED
CHICAGO
DAMP FURNITURE.
MAY BE
INSPECTED AT
21 JAMIESON-STREET.
R. MOBISOM STEWiRT
Department of Pubiio Works.
Sydney, April 20,18£6,
TINDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
. P^ES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Pubiio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnmhnt Gazbtti, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
-I®BB the terms of the notioe are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender. p
tffttusc of Worka and SnppllM
Riveting and Erection of nine
Wrought Iron Aqueducts,
Sydney Water Supply
Ereotion of Lighthouse and
Lightkeeper’s Cottage, Kian3a
Additions to Now Police Quar-
ters, Cudai
Supply of Prisoners’ Dock, &c.,
Courthouse, Taralga
Supplying and Erecting Base-
ment of Chimney for Smith
and Boiler Workshop, Tram-
way Branch, Rand wick
Additions, &e., to Court and
Watchhouse. Casino
Cutting Grass on Embankments, i
&c., Main Southern Sewer
Erection of Stationmaster's'
House, &c, at Orange
Erection of a Railway Station
at Macdonaldtown
Construction of House for
Porter in Charge at Wimble-
don, Great Southern Railway I
Construction of 130-ton
Hopper Barge-Dredge
vice
Additions to Musketry
Victoria Barracks
Iron |
Ser-|
Shed,l
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Coota-
mundra
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Pater-
son
Supply and Delivery in New-
castle of Pipes, for Water
Supply Reticulation, Hunter
River District.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Tuesdav,
April 37,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
May 4,
at 11 o’clock.
Tue'day,
May 11,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
May 18,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
May 25,
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNH.
F
s"^
oV^'
S' a
$ 1 V
r \/
**V
/
The WINE off the P£ ERAGE.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
gs
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY S
Cantral Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
money Lent ,at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at t.ates never before attempted in this Coiony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
1F“
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
Ml George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly axe-
e»*»*»
ntending Visitors to the Colonial Exhibition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
Carried 1935 passengers last season. Six horses to
be driven up Holywell Hill, St. Albans.
Dr.Rumney (of “RIDGE’S FOOD” fame) is again
running his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach,
“THE WONDER,” between London and tst. Albans,
leaving Hatchett's Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
every morning at 10 45, returning to Piccadilly at
6.15, p.m.
Ample time is alio wed at St Albans for lunch and
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is
one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other Particulars apply to
‘ WONDER ” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel, Pto*
cadilly, Loudon. England.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
The London Times says; “ A new Ministry
has heen formed at Melbourne by Sir Patrick
Jennings.” No, Mr. Times. It is not at Melbourne
that Sir Patrick Jennings has formed a Ministry.
It is at Ballarat, the chief suburb of New Zealand,
the capital of Tasmania.... Sixpenny telegrams are
now a permanent institution in N.Z. In N.S.W*
shilling telegrams are a permanent institution
A Chinaman, name unknown, has hanged himself
in Auckland, N.Z. A chance for the bards: "The
Unsung Hung, or the Nameless Dead.” A young
bushman has eloped from Gympie with an elderly
matron who has married daughters The travel-
ling correspondent of the Cooktown Courier has
noticed in the public men of Townsville “a kind
of new upstanding pose, a calm air of superiority
foreshadowing of future political greatness.”....
In 18T0 the population of Sydney and suburbs was
about 140,000; at the close of 1885 it was 290,000
The Kyneton (Vic.) hospital patients have struck
for better shirts. The local gaol inmates will now
strike for Marsala and caviare.. .The unemployed
who were recently sent up to Cobar, N.S.W. have
refined notions in re “tucker.” Fresh meat is
scarce. They have had to live on salt-horse, with
currant cakes and other soft tack, and have
very properly brought the matter under the
notice of the ro&d superintendent. He promises
to send oysters, hock, pate-de-foie-gras and
devilled chicken as soon as Compagnoni establishes
a braneh at Cobar— A Dunedin fisherman, named
Nelson, was run into by a buggy, and received a
nasty wound in the cheek. The buggy was
smashed. Nelson should go into political life. If
he can smash a buggy with his cheek, his
advancement in the Assembly would be certain
Adelaide milkmen have formed a union. Sydney
milkmen have a union, too—of milk and water.
Three to two against the genuine cow-juice
The Kiverine Evening Star expresses its emphatic
disapproval of Bismarck’s proposal to buy out the
Polish landlords. Should Bismack carry out his in-
tention, he had better give Wagga a wide berth, as
John Thomas Williamson is not a man to stick at
trifles when the affairs of a nation are at stake....
A Goulburn (N.S.W.) servant, who had engaged
as a qualified greom, gardener, &c., sued his master
for wages. The latter proved that his enterprising
servitor had on several occasions put the bridle on
a horse with the head-strap under the animal’s
jaw, and the bit on the top of its head. He also, it
appeared, designed a new method of growlDg peas,
by puttting them at a distance of one or two feet
from each other Mr. J.P T.X Y.Z. Caulfield, the
Victorian “ Boy Politician,” told the Sydney Dis-
trict Court judge last week that he started busi-
ness in Melbourne when he was 15, and that even
now he was only 22 The N.B.W. Liquor Traffic
Commission has a good item to worry over from
the start. Peter Dynck, a German in the Bourke
district, died the other day from drinking a dipper
of cold water. Peter will Dynck twice before he
tries the game on again Rev. Blatkie, of Mel-
bourne, tells his congregation that the power of
Cumberland, mind-reader, is insignificant beside
that of the Hebrew prophets. Mr Blaikie himself
isn’t a circumstance when compared with Job or
Solomon By order of the Mayor. Strangers
visiting Macdonaldtown after heavy rain are cau-
tioned not to kick any old hats they may notice
lying about the streets. Several prominent resi-
dents have had their heads severely bruised ;by
this objectionable practice, while their bodies
were hidden in the deep-sinking mud beneath...
To the Indian and Colonial Exhibition “about a
dozen young Creole waitresses ” will be sent
from Antigua, all charming girls, who will dispense
to Burdett Bmith salt fish and pepperpot, “ foo-
foo, crab backs, monatee, iguana, and monkey.”...
Frank GoodwiD, editor of the Bundaberg Mail
(Q.), bade his acquaintances good-bye lately on the
eve of his departure for the Southern colonies.
The trip, as he intimated, was one of “pleisure
and duty combined.” He returned with a wife I
At Maitland Alderman Wilkinson’s motion
against expending £5O public money on the recep-
tion of Lord Carington was rejected by a large
majority —At St. Patrick’s Day race meeting on
a Northern course, a young bustiman came on the
ground decked with green and orange rosette, cap
of the same colour, and a Bank of England no I e in
his button-hole. Another injustice to Ireland.
* * *
Renan, the religionist, has written a play
for the Theatre Fransais. The chief scene is the
Elysian Fields, and Kenan requires the light for
this to be a “blending of tenier blue and mourn-
ful grey.”... .The widow of Colonel Fred. Burnaby
is about to marry Prof. Main—Those females
who never buy anything but get shop assistants
to pull down all the stock are called “ mustard-
plasters”—because they are^counter-irritants...
The last phase of Irish boycotting is a moonlight
visit of a band of masked and armed men to the
house of one Leahy, who was warned on pain of
death to forbid his daughter’s marriage with an
unpopular tenant on the estate of Sir G. O’Grady.
Leahy assured the leader that the marriage
should not take place, and the gang departed
Sarah Bernhardt, who talks of appearitg as Bea-
trice, Rosalind, Juliet, and perhaps as the fair
Ophelia, is soothed by the thought that she is the
same age as Ellen Terry, 38.... Thus the Referee:
—Trade is bad all round, and half the shop-
keepers of London are on the verge of bankruptcy
• . . . If the Court for which we pay so heavily
had been kept up as it should have been kept up
during the last 30 years or more, and if our own
nobility had not been slighted and cold-
shouldered, and made subservient to a set
of beggarly Germans, the entire condition of
trade in London would have been altered,”....
Jules Yerne’s nephew has tried to shoot him. He
must have heard that the old man had been telling
the truth.... Lord Cairns (“Gumboil”) got the
third prize in the Battle of Flowers, at Cannes, for
his boat, manned by four sailors, and bedeoked
with 10,000 camellias. The boat , was placed on a
carriage drawn by eight horses with outriders.
“ Gumboil ” was arrayed for the occasion in white
flannel—From a London paper’s account of the
launch of a man-o’-war:—“The christening oere-
mony was performed by Lady Campbell. Her
tonnage is 1810, and she wilflcarry six mounted and
eight machine guns.”....Teacher (to her class in
physiology): “ What are the last teeth that come ?”
Boy: “ False teeth, mam.” ... No dog is in future
to enter the precincts of Windsor Castle. From
this it is evident that, although “a cat may look
at a king,” a dog may not gaze on the Queen....
£91,680 is the exact sum which Dr. Beresford,
Anglican Bishop of Armagh, leaves behind him,
now that he has gone to meet the ghosts of the
starved.... “ How to be Happy Though Married”
is the title of a volume presented to Princess
Beatrice A N.Y. eating house displays as an ad-
vertisement, “Try our home-made oysters.”....
" Do you wish to be my wife, Mabel ?” said a little
boy. “ f es,” incautiously answered Mabel. “Then
pull off my boots.” “Yes, my son, there will
be dancing in Heaven, but the floors will not be
slippery, and the music will never go out to get a
drink." When a man’s in a rage he pulls down
his vest. When a lady’s in a tantrum she pulls up
her gloves —In some regards Louise Michel might
well be a “queen.” She indignantly refused a
banquet to celebrate her release—the food and
wine, she said, would have choked her while so
many people in Paris had no bread to eat.
have, according to Tory notion?, had such an ad-
mirable efftctin the past, that they should now
be administered ad lib. He fears that his opinions
are “ too advanced.” Modestman! Opinionssuch
as his are relics of the years that followed the
sacking of Drogheda.
A correspondent writes us from Croydon
gold-rush, N.Q., under date 18th March, saying
that he left Sydney per Maranoa, on 3rd of Febru-
ary, for Normanton, and on arriving there, found
that to get to the field, he had either to buy a
horse or go on by dray. He continues:— ‘ All
hands went by dray, at £2 per lOOib., so that light
men got off easily. Oar troubles began with our
start, on 22ad of February. If there is a hell in
the world, it is between Normanton and Croydon.
Flies of all sorts pester you night and day; I have
travelled a deal, but have never seen anything
like it before. As you know, poor Stubley and
three other men died on the road. Stubley hadn’t
a shilling left in the world out of the £250,000 or
so he made out of his Charters Towers mines.
When we arrived on the ground, the day after our
start, he looked round the reefs, but could see
very little gold; the back-blockers wanted to
know what had brought us up. Since then, how-
ever, I have come across very good gold on the
caps of some of the outcrops, but so far, there has
been no work done to prove how far the gold goes
down.”
A Fiji correspondent tells us that one
Navosavohadu started a new religion there, but
was bowled out. He incited people to violence,
and was sentenced to six months. He prophesied
that if he were condemned the roof would fall.
The roof didn’t, and when they went further and
shaved his head there was no particular falling in
of the skies observable, and hence the people be-
gan to doubt the Divine mission. Like most
modern religions the oraze consists of a hash of
old native traditions and Jewish wonders. The
Dative Fijian makes no bones about swallowing
the ancient miracles—thinks them extremely pro-
bable. in fact, and can cap them with similar ac-
couits of his own. The story of the Flood, for
instance, as long ago pointed out by Humboldt,
has a separate version amongst almost all savage
nations-each one of course claiming that the sole
survivors of that downpour were of their own
race'from which the rest of us have sprang. Ac-
cording to Navo the new god and his sons—Nama-
kau Mole and Nakalssabasia may be expected
shortly. It is not stated whether they are to bring
bail with them, so that Nav can come out and join
in the millennium of eternal banana and grilled
Christian.
MODERN PROVERB.
BY “THE BULLETIN ” JOSH BILLINGS.]
TAKE RARE OF YURE POUNDS, AND YURE KIDS WILL TAKE KARE OF YURE EXPENSE.
The Maitland Mercury prints a letter
from a London resident, who, writing to a friend
in Australia, says, concerning the Irish:—“A few
years of good military discipline, with a judicious
amount of shooting, hanging, and thrashing,
would, I believe, do more good than all the be-
nevolent legislation the Liberals can ever give
them. I fear my opinions are too advanced for
the public at present, but I expect it will come to
something like this in the long run.” This man is
a consistent and no doubt highly respectable Con-
servative. Shooting, hanging, and thrashing,
Experience teaches that Wolfe's Schnapps
is more suited to the Colonies than either brandy
or whisky.
Are universally approved by leading physicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Inoipient Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis. loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Dieeases, Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation, &c.,
and have cured some of the most obstinate and distressing cages, after all remedies
(so-called) have failed.
Our goods should not be confounded with the many spurious and worthless Electric and Magnetic
appliances foisted upon the market by unscrupulous and irresponsible parties. We challenge the
whole world to produce so effective and cheap curative appliances as our Electric Corsets and Belts,
Hair, Flesh, and Tooth Brushes Electric Insoles and Generators. Our “ Electric ” Corsets and Belts
are more effective than all the magnetic appliances ever invented, however high prioed, as our testi-
monials unimpeachably prove.
„_CAUTIpN.--In consequence of an attempt to substitute inferior and spurious articles for
‘Dr. Scotts Electrio,” the Pall Mall Electrlo Association desire to caution the public against pur-
chasing any counterfeit of the following goods:—“Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr. Scott’s Electrlo
Belts, Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic Generators, and Dr,
Scott’s Electric Insoles ” Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric ” and the name of Dr. Scott,
as also does the box containing same. The extent of our trade, and the marked appreciation of the
public, having induced certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless goods, having something of
the general form and external appearance of ours, and variously styled “ Magneto-Electric or Electrio
Magnetic,” we respectfully ask that parties who have been influenced by the many testimonials we
publish, ail of which are strictly genuine, or the universal reputation of our goods, to give eleotrioity
a trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the word “ Electric ” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a new trade mark—an oval label with our looal address,
1 Pall Mall Electric Association, 51 Margaret-street, Sydney, N.5.W.,” in marginal lines, encircling the
device of a mailed hand holding a group of thunderbolts (see cut annexed), a fac-simile of which will
appear on all goods manufactured by Dr. Bcott. Beware of fraud.
dfg
B
m
C,IR/C
$
»
TRADE
H MARK
£
4**
AOJUS^
LINED WITH MEDICATED FELT
sdf
gsd
S'ATEEI^
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets and Belts.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of electricity the functions of the
nervous organisation. Easy, graceful, and
elegant. They are worn by the principal
Royal Families of Europe, by the elite of Ameri-
can and Continental Bociety, and are daily en-
dorsed by over one million ladies, and as they do
not exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
makers, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling from
any cause, if you seem “pretty well,” yet lack
energy, and do not “feel up to the mark;” if you
suffer from disease, we beg you to at once try
those remarkable curatives. They cannot, and do
not. injure like medicine. Always doing good,
never harm. There is no shock or sensation felt
in wearing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results ; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently the first
day, and often during the first hour they are worn
their wonderful curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nervous and slug-
gish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health-giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Eleotricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practise
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance ffom
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnetods in place of the ordinary oorset steels.
They are all equally charged, different only In
quality and design. They are elegant in shape and
finish, made after the best French patterns, and
warranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no others.
Most of the above applies equally to the Electric
Belt for gents.
These goods are sent out in a handsome box, ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we; will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover post-
age.
The prices are as follows:
A Corsets 15/- B Corsets 10/8
C Corsets 8/6 D Corsets 6/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, 8/6 j
Electric Belt, 15/
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... 5/- IS o. 2 Hair Brush ... 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush ... 9/6 No. 1 Hair Brush ... 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/6 Flesh Brush 13/6
Tooth Brush 2/6 Curlers *2/6
Insoles 2/6.
All Chemists or Druggists, or direct post free,
one shilling extra.
Military Hair Brushes, pair in case, handsome
goods, 30/- per set. Post free, £ll2s. 6d.
Electric Horse Brush, for lameness and stiffness
in horses, £1 Is. Post free, £l3s. Cd.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Wood-Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
AND CARRY A LARGE STOCK OP THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
IST EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK*
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney*


9
IBray «§& Hiiolitiier
24 O’Coanell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
fgs
The “LOUIS'*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fac
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OH
application. '
<5
J
mittag-on®. 1
'• Accommodation for Commercials
PETEK MUKPIIT, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Term?.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (iu digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats aro especially rich in muscular anti fat producing
elements—Liebeg.”
Maltine will increase both the weight a*ud flush in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
t for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcase3 that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
.Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine O' most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value iu all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &o.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Gent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
audtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Storhach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
it contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
the MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
ESf” THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED ,
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT
W S for shorter periods; FIVE PER,
CENT, on sums from £1 to £soin the Savings Bank
Lranob, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager,
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT^^fl
0
gy
fOs
KSichemists
■NI0&200Z BOT s
'WHOLESALE AGENT
i-'S&s.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no iead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suit ed for fair or goldon-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ E&LTDOB is a most
cooling, healing and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arnjs, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or meta'iic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 JBatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
\HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 676,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Crtdit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
ARTHUR M4RTIN & COUPAHY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEEBS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southf rn
Colo Dies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
etreet, Brisbane.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OJf
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 hurit eales :
PACKED in and INSURED against
tar* Carriage paid by mail ail over the colonies
by Coach. Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£& LADY’S BALB.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
# pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night gowns
3 Petticoats
The above aro made
ol pood lonpcloth and
nicely trimmed. Tf de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
-GR MOURNING BALB.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Q loves
Carriage Freo.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or dr-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, pood
quality and fashionable.
For aooouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infants Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &o,—with
instruction for self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHKKO,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated 45 Bale* of Drapery
PROVIDENCE
Helps those who help themselves. Nature hasprovided
herbs for the cure of human ailments, and medical
science has discovered their healing powers, and the
proper combinations necessary to conquer disease.
The result of these discoveries and combinations is—
Dr. BELL'S BITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in severe eases of
Kidney and Liver Diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, In,
digestion, Weakness, Lassitude, Ac., and invariably it
has taken relief and cure. Thousands of testimonials
have been given, and is most popular where best
known.
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
Headache.- The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
and settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Indigestion.— Start the Secretions of the Stomach
with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jaundice— Blood poisoned by Bile. Correct the
Liver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
of A wet if e. —The Stomach is failing. First
cleanse it; then tone with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Torpidity.— lnaction of Liver. Start it up with
Dr. Beil’s Bitters.
Nausea. Reaction of Bile. Correct Stomach and
Liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Malaria.— Poison in the Blood. Purify by starting
the Liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Nervousness.— Deranged Stomach Function. Cor*
reet and tone with Dr. Bell's Bitters.
Nifiht Sweats. —Weakness. Strengthen and tone
the system with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
■fj OTK —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application tq
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine. .
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANAD4i
SEW ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
agents for
N«w South Wales and Queensland.
fWIO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
JL and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. " Beta,” Bulletin Office.
OQDmo
THS
IN
*>RED
a
iSKNeEo
OF
edyfer
rem
pEBILI
TTi
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It Is to those that this adver-
tisement Is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying Some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you oapable
of appreciating and Enloying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at IBs, or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any pait of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, er Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOIILTWS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS, We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be,
bold Everywhere, Price I*. 3d. ,
C. E , MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS


our
CHIL DREN'S
COLUMN
Fo many strange circumstances relating to colo
nial life have been revealed by The Bulletin's
young contributors in their later efforts, that wt,
hesitating to reiy upon our unaided judgment in
determining tho autbenlicity of their recitals
thought it wise to send their letters and sketches
to the author of “Oceana”; and as we were told
by him that he knows facts concerning Australia
which are to us still more strange than the tbiogj
noted by our Young Friends, we have nohesitalior
in now giving these letters a show. The first of
them comes from the well-known locality,
“Flapjack Flat,
“March 9, 1886.
“Dear Bully —I am a little hoy 2 years of old.
I have a peney Unkle Tommy giv’me; wo call
him Sweet, becos he was stolen. Fe wos dyin’
when I got him, but now's he’s ali rite, and Unkle
Tommy wants him back; ray pa says be shant
have him. I want to tell you about my Unkle
Tommy, he's a lawyer, and folks says he’s a mene
mar. He wares a beerd becos it costs too much
te «hf.trp. and he washes at the pump with yaller
sope, he eayß it's cheeper (han beepin' washslandii
andpeerses. He is a Freethinker row; he used to
go to church, but the parson Bade if he cuddm'
put suthin’ else on the plate besides metal but’on; ,
he’d better stay away altogether. Unkle Tommy
wares the wurst closeyouever saw; he hasScotis,
1 is a ole green one he wares ev’ry day, and tbs
other is a ole black one he wares when the gudge
comes. He got the black one to be manicc
in 20 yerea ago, and I herd him tell .Aunl
Jane that he bot green oae 10 yrrei
ago id Sidney from a man called Ikey
llofles, I think ho wos a ;u. Wocee we had
A new pcliccman here, ho was h Frenchman, and
bis name was Murphy, he thought Unkle Tommy
Mi l/tmii R/y in Hi 4 ''■V> »>
- 'Af't'ttndN
wos a tramp, and run him in. Unkle Tommy used
to be mayer of Itumville. The aldurmen choosed
him beoos they said they did’nt want no bloomin’
nastier for (heir mayer. He is’nt mayer now
weos 1 day last week he borroed my pa’s masher
collar to go to a dog ilte, and 1 of the aldurmen
"aw him with it on. The day before yesterday the
cudge come and Unkle Tommy got out his black
cote; it hadent bene out fur a yere, and I gees the
moths had bene at it. There ia another lawyer
here wot has a down on Unkle Tommy, his name
is Mister WobegODg, they had a row in the corf,
and Mr. Wohegong told Unkle Tommy that he
’ now no more about law than a black gin nose
ibout scented sope. Unkle Tommy got mad and
made a spcctae: just as he wos sayen that it wos
dwasehis desire to mantano the dignity of this
cort, there was an offui row, and his cote tales
fell clene off. He looked round to see what it wos
and bis note split rito up the back and both
sieves came out. There wos nothing left only the
eoller and 3of the frunt butons. The gudge fined
Unkle Tommy for contemp of corfc. Deer Bully,
may 1 rite to you agane. Unkle Tommy wood
g vme beans if he saw this. How do you like my
drawings: don't show them to anyone. Yours
truly,
"JIMMIE BROWN."
LYes, Jimmie, you may write again. We won’t
let anyone see your drawings,—we will put them
IntheJERNiL. Are you a Kanaka? We should
think you wore either that, or a Noose corres-
pondent from the style of your spelling ~.Ed. B ]
Our next yonth may not be much at grammar,
but he is about the best specimen of the genus
colossal list 1 that we have ever heard of. He
writes :
“ Dear Mr. Ebiter,— l am a very big buoy of
my age 7 and a art. Igo droveti to Burk with a
blue dorg; wen e sees a boundry rider e bites ’im.
The rider gets blue devils then, and I gels blue
grass for the jummics. I saw a flte out there; 220
raviesbeat one drovtr. Then he got his wind,
aid next day ther was 219 funerals in Girlambone,
and no occasun for a ralway strike, as they wer
al etruk ded by the drovur. I had my gun and
fldol with mo. Tho hrat fryod all t v e ertgut
ti l thi y iquealcd and warpd the batul of the gun,
till I blew my left arm off firing from tho rite.
One day it was so hot that when a storm kame on
it boiled my blew dorg into jely, so I ’ad to leave
of droven and take to the Salvation Army.
“Ananias (junr.)
P.S.—I am. an. avtisr, and I send some drawings;
they are little things of my own.—A.Jr.”
[Qur.eso; if you, like the “ Minstrel Boy,” had
your wild harp at your back there would be a pair
of you—yourself ard the other lyre. When you
leave the Barmy you will find a great future
awaiting you ia tbo editing of circus posters.—
Ed. B 1
Our next contribution is in himself a striking
proof of the peed of elementary education in
Queensland. If he never acquires aDy more know-
ledge than he possesses now, he will only be fit for
a Sydney herbal remedy “ doctor,” or an Orange
member.
“ Dear Bulitin,—We do have such larx hear
cumtimes. Last weak my old dad got a little too
much of Ihe Breesbun shuger-syrup on boid, and
I wen hokum hoatn wo had poot an old barbur’s
pole on the dorerrat. Wen he seen it he let one
howl, and yellin’ Eumi.hin about “ by thunder, got
'em agen,” went down the strete quite farst.
Tbare is a man next doar to us who waz ill a bit
agee, and the parson told him he ort to repent cos
he was goin to a verry hot placB if he didunt, but
the man only said, oh I dort kair—l lived in
Townsvil wunco. I canut go for toneck now cos I
ana not 14, eo I never gets a bozo now at all. Joe
is a big boy for 10 an’ goes for tho liaic. How do
you like my rltin ?
“ Yur littul pen,
“SAM GRIFFITH.”
[Your ritln is inferior only to your spelia.—
Rd B]
“ Dear Bulletin— L’st Monday my mar and
tvo more )a< ies was sittia’ torhiu’ and jorin’
about servants, like they always do when Mrs’
Jones all of a sudden says Mrs Miles way don’t
you get cullered servants from Scelon; they don't
know no English. Then I says if they den’t un-
derstand no E lglisb, mar, they can't teil par about
wot they herd tho new curit say to you in the
drorin’-:oom when par's out, and they won’t h ive
so much to say as Mary had when you sacked her
cause she woodent ware a cap, and she (orked
back and araked par why the curit come to see
you thres times in one day. Then mother run me
out, and she don’t bring me in now when people
call lo show them how clever I am f r my age
Why is th's, do you know ?
“ John Short Miles,
“ P.S.—I am called Short afier my mother and
Miles after my father. It’s all right, I suppose,
but it sounds bad.”
[ They sent you out, Johnnie, because of yourllttie
pitch about the curate. You should never speak
of religious exercises such as os ulat'oa when in a
mixed company.— Ed B ]
Rev. Dods, Presbyterian, Melbourne, has
been preaching sermons in which he failed to
maintain with due strenuousness that three times
one are 65; so the brethren have called on him to
hand over his manuscript for purgation. Rev.
Dods refuses, and is to be indicted for “contu-
macy.” Now that Calvin’s little device of hand
ing over contumacious persons like Servetusto bo
burnt is out of date, the church has no remedy
but to scorch through the pocket. The steep-end
suffers.
Even policemen are sometimes able to do
a smart thing. Up North (Queensland, of course), a
settler taking delivery of his usual keg of rum, was
asked by the local peeler to sell him a gallon of it,
and with that readiness to oblige the “foorce’
usually shown by men who occasionally have
some difficulty in making less than half the road
suffice them when returning from rural festivities
he parted the liquor at a remunerative price,
which, however, was not paid over at the time of
sale, nor is it likely to be squared in the future. For
that “leery ” settler knows a little too much to be
in a hurry to remind the representative of the law
about that little bit of sly-grog selling. And thus
it happens that a thirsty constable is able to pur-
chase liquor on the most reasonable and satisfac-
tory terms.
Dan, O’Connor’s division of the New Heb-
rides into four-thirds reminds us of a blunder
almost as entertaining. Some years ago up iu
Riverina the wags of the town induced a wealthy
and plethoric, but small-brained, tradesman to
come forward as alderman. The candidate had
the bovine appearance of your ideal John Bull,
and always reminded one of a cow look'ng over
a gate after a heavy meal of wet clover.
He was the sort of man whom nothing
apparently could trouble except flatulence; herein
he differs from Dan,, who, if deprived of gap,
would collapse with a squeak like a pricked
bladder. A crowded house greeted our Riverina
man at his meeting. After a few inaudible grunts,
he was told 10 speak up, and he did, with a ven-
geance. With a yell, which might have been heard
on the other side of the Murrumbidgee, be de-
clared: “That he had alius paid 20s iu the £, and
as how he knowed flve-thirda o’ the eleeturs would
vote for’im afore one o’the paper-collar mob; in
fact, he might say ten-sixths.” This was enough
for the audience, who cheered him till his red face
shone li!?e the sun over Gibeon. in anticipation
of treats of a similar kind they (the humourists)
elected him by a two-to-one ms j .r.ty to the Vic-
toria Cross of Riverina public l;le.
“A drunken farmer arrested in Christ-
caurch, NZ, last week, was found possessed of a
sum of £352, ail in gold. Th i arresting constable
wap, of course, inexperienced—he had only been a
week ia the force.”—Daily Paper. ahe cow b?li.
Thinks:—
*Twas our?, ere Wisdom's lamp illumed tho path-
way ’ncalh our feet,
To oft fro on a raving ‘tear,” and stagger in the
street,
To gazj upon the red wine till its lustre dimmed
our sight,
Singing ‘ We’ll go home at morning,” through the
stillness of the night;
And once as we meandered on—alone, and tight,
and tired -
A peeler hove In sight, and on us straight his
bull’s-eye fired.
“ Yer dhrunk, ye thafe; take that, and that.” Wo
staggered, tripped, and fell;
And straight he “ ran the rule ” o'er us, and did i
mighty well.
We held a score of notes, a few dull ye'low dumps
of gold,
Yet in the court next morning not a tanner did wo
hold;
A week’s work in the gaol to do wag ours, with
mop and tub,
And in a fortnight's time from then that pe r lcr
kept a pub.
This is the idea of poetry entertained b
Mrs. M‘Dona ! d, eonduotresr of the Silver Press
one of the only two lady-editors in N.8.W.:—
“WHY THE EDITRESS UTTERED A GENTLE D—'
“ With a terrific pain in her head,
And her eye:ids swollen and sore,
The editreaj sat in a cold back ioojd,
And d d the African 6hore.
“ A youth dropped in with a paylees ad.
Her was strewa with dune.
Her hu band had written to tali her
How the paper ought to be raj.
“ An irate subscriber had told her,
That the paper was badly delivered,
And her hutband said that it was easy.
To iua a paper, but was not easy to make it pay
“ The foreman was yelling for copy,
The m.nera oa tne strike,
With a crushed letter in her hand,
Tee editress uttered a d .
“ Hat the angel who took it to Heaven,
Kee&rded its verdict there;
‘The jaty fi ,d in the prt sent case,
That an editress could enter a justifiable swear.’ ”
Nowond rshe swore. Anyone capable of com-
mitting such poetry cuvbt to bo able to swear au
overlander stoLo tl nd iu 10 minutes.
DANIEL'S SESRET.
Wo never knew the secret of Dan 'a greatness
Until DOW,
What mighty engine worked the bra’n behind tha
nc h e brow,
V, hat spark illumed those steel-grey eye 3 which
with f udden tire,
Wi en, in the House, a member darei to raise h e
hssiy ire
Last ye k we learnt the secret which makes
Daniil coruscate;
’ffs ths, the jay nial veteran is "on tha calculate '
F„r f peaking ia his place that night about New
Hebi ides,
The picnic speaker split the soil In fragments liU
to these:
“ New Caledonia, stern and wild, is rich in wealth
of land,
And smiling Nature glads the eye with verdure i n
each hand;
A ihird s agricultural, a third a forest old,
Another third is pastoral, and one-third rich in
gold.’'
’Twill then ho seen he placed four-thirds where
only three could fir,
And Targt.lt (who is, by the way, a mark he’s
lately hit
With metaphor of “flowers and flood’ ) spake u-\
* Pray wait a bfl,
Four into thre~, 0 Daniel, come to judgment, yo :
must know
Howe’er you try to mako it will assuredly not go ”
*• ’l’was ’foorths’ I meant,” Dan. thundered out,
ai d banged the book once more,
While members gaped and wished himself divide d
into four.
'1 he I. ish National Party have determined
on curymg \he uolitk-al wtr into Ragland and
Gotland. Pyrr o l hes, we rtad, at last acb pted
[Uvitts pLtform 1' r the extension if the pro-
j cted proi Bga da to a'l Democrat'c treasures
n< ramon to ine two Kirgdon s. England is to be
“s umprd ” in the R. me Rule inter-the l.isb
Democrury anoealir g, in roan at d broLber iashion,
to the E’ y i h Democracy fin that very question
in which the latter itstll is vitally coeorned— the
question of Real selt-gover. m ;nt. The Home
Rulers, despite their p vent calm, don’t hope for
area* thtrgs from the pme it Govt rnroent Ihey
trust teecountry tnoreih m thi-y t.juslParliament.
J ihu Hull, they are persur.fed, only want* a 1 tele
education; and they thick they can educate him
between ths and “next November,” the date
, ss'gn-d by one of the ablest and most influential
of Nationalists to the next general election. John
is like a nervous tv rs?, and to be treated like one.
Lead him up to the object of his terrors, put trs
nose to it. and lot him see there's nothing in it.
Thus reason the choice spirits of the Parnellite
host.
Wolfe's Sciinapps is an agreeable remedy f< r
debility, Liliuusmss, &c. Jbe tore you obtain
Wolfe s.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wa'r-S S le ard Daie, decorators. B I
and bar out ro ms tasteliil'y d.oort.ttd wim
Ills- and U,ral decoratioos, 00 4 Hunter street
Sydney.*
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your sup ly of Lemon-
ade, Sod'r Water, Ging'. r ale. Tonic, Potts
and L'thia Water (for Gout), of l)alm and Oerte*,
ASrattd Water and Cordiil Manufacturers, 403 Pi*t-
street. Delivered rtgularly in town and suburbs *
Mb. Djb Comtox lißowsra pate rep at"
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sot. |
Wales), Author of the “Miners' R ndy Booh,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” ‘Manual o
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbi rrtor. Advisor
and Mining Titles Ag nt, Boro.ford Chambers
52 Castlereasrh-street, Sydney *
TbeNew York Daily Graphic of July H'h, 1881
contains illustrations of the Wolff, s Schnapps
establishment at Hamburg.


HAH
fif ; °. f favourite toMb
4*,. 04 the bre»^ te<l wiai gr©* 4 care 410111 tn<
&. 6 Blan£«Es£? 2 f 4he celebrated firm o:
fS?3tbe WcetuLi* 11 ™ Dublin, and therefor*
To be procured everywhor*
"'■> —ARBTON, Sole Agents.
T 11 IfiBSH FOOD AND IO« COMPANI
• (Limited)
Opened a
®®A N G H dIP 0 I
*t>
At
23 Royal Arcade,
Milk,
they supply
Tfc
’ ® utt e*. Coffee; Cocoa, &o„ with
Ught refreshments.
b^SeSS 0h ’ o?derß
may be left for delivery
hare
'”' j augg B » alßo over the Agenoy for
l *^oomp^ hl ghly recommended in pulmc-
Food and fee Co., Limited t
>585
ie..
*1 Harbour-strees
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
gsdf
PEMELL'S
**TRa hupkkfinb
BBST WHBAT
N«w „ 11 tbe newest and moat approval
Machinery.
lan® 1 ® LOW,and the QUALITY
V * C T r Afi ANTEBD VERY GOOD.
\Lz} A Haas mill,
™ 1 Sydney.
gs
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
363 Pi TT STREETj
JOHN DANES,
SYDNEY.
Sold by SHOE BEELERS, GROCERS end CBUGGISTS,
ffilZß
ItEDiXS.
m
1 HAUTHAWAY'S
HID RELIABLE
Peerless
Bless.
& Kgs&ri ij in every
fam. v iji f .blacks and
polishes lions’ and
Chiiwrefl’sßb'ots,
Shoes, TiU&hsrs and
Saicjsf:, witffiSu!
& E *Na’ 3S Cc\
r. s«r
V'.L U« ls '?6w i
£ivcs satisMon.
h conGS&fJ to (13
n h av & G o^B,
u <ss Stvect, Boston.
MAS*., U.B.A
TURING
ATT-ERS
ST
EET
«
ll*
_&, CO., Wine and Spirit
' street, Sydney,
, '-»>•- 4 >ani;
"•' ns ••
, Wluskie
a™ * l un & Cn , a
& Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
"a. y™ artin ~ 8
(loh! *\ ils Squirrel Brandy
* h e orte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
c <i A..V.
H. Gin, &c., &c.
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Com Faint, Is.
Asiatlo Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barharossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAYS MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
R3MINGTON
TYPE-WHITER.
mHB
ITS ADVANTAGES OYER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
far THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents.
IMRAY and 00-
410 Kent-street.
GO
s. En c_
D« RICHARDS M.R.C
fo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS,
M.A. Oxon,
M,R.C. S., Eng.
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that he
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No. 7
opring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &e., &c.
I Curo ovovy case undertaken.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again ; I mean
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cun
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru
dence, have brought- about a state of weakness that ha-
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected., they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re
nedies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Vppliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whether your case is curable or not.
OR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S , ENG-
HO. 7 SPUING- ST., (off Pitt-sUeet north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price Inst.
® BOYD,
FOMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CAST LtfREAGfI-ST
' (Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGED' .
Registered Physician of New South Wales
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Disease >
Specialty.
Box I*o GJP.O. “
dfg
Barry’s Tri opherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’B
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Beet
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
■ 4 •
sdf
A
1*
o
V
x 4
V.
Ilipp.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £loS,ooo,
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairihan.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, lisp.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C,
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont,Rcdfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.,
:j£ HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
BTDNEY BRANCHES:
84 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital... ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ... 625,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained od
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
>y
N
♦
k V
r i>. •
Messrs. 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.. Agents.
IY&1S
EXTRACT
NEW
OF
SOAP
P *RRY ** CO 5
H&Ssb
NEW
E <TRiCT-SC.lf
gs
MSOAP/AL V/£W OF Hh
Prepared from Purs Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in tee most Eeleptific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NO THUG
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma > in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
OISPSNRING CHEMISTS,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
mi MCI.
HO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Jill T. Minis & Ci.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YT,
MAHHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known retried'
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION
PREMATURE DECAY &.C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self,
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box ,292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DII. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royql College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who lias passed the Royal College of
Physicians of England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
asthma,bronchitis, coughs
PREPARED ONLY
:i Thomas Ing
OCKHAM P
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYIDIsrs-Y-, ICT.S-W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all tlie branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office., or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. 'When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Bock, Stunted Development, &c., arc
. ___ __ ...—_. treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning 1 , Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evory kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice ail over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, Where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account Of the great number of cases applying, the (
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a:
speedy p"A perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or ■
DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, v J
- 52 Castlereagli street (qrotoc floor), Sydney,
all
m
Wm
kW:


ÜBOURKE STREET, i
MELBOURNE. f
THOS.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
Manufacturer of Turret Glocks p Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying instruments; Sc-
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Laver Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
I#" PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 SEORGE STREET.
mr- wnnmwoH balls, PTomns, avt> parttrr a rpbotalttt
107. Pitt-street, ..4
CATERER AND CONFECTION™
um« »»" ******
LUNCHEO
D BEFRES rw eve PO' ,M ° *ol*
ASK YOUR GROCBR FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FR-sr & SORB, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
*' An ordinary Cup contains mere of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— LAMOK.
J. B. FR"3T & SORTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup oontalns more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— LAWOTS.
MASON BKOTHE&fe
sdfgsdfgsdfgsdfg
LIMITED
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Bare always Is STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and! WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDW A* *
GLASS, CHINA,
ajtd
EARTHSMWAB s
WINES, BEERS, A»l> SFCSI? ?
and general
BULK MBW3KANXiIBA
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.QA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburg* Pale A la,
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “ Massillia,” 13 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian iigaretiis,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being 1 a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spillftr’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE'S EST BUSHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st.,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street,
Trade
budgeree
*SS
Marl*'
WO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT la the moat wonderful. a * r Sd5HS«
AXNi IB lUB IUUSU WUOUOIIUI v, 'r +lxr kU 1 ’
>hoid should be without it, as it mstaßtiy (
closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all ehem -jjfJ'
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower
destroyer known. Ko household
smells arising from ’ J
t
ft
on
JDO
TTNIQUB FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
U Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Bxtra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
Ttfith coffee or cheese.
TURNHR & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 StTSBBX SOTUUH,' BTDWBT.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY TH®
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N-»-
Also, at Loudon, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
tar LARGE T STOCK IN THE COLON
rl
3E
BUjCuu DOG AIiJK.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL.
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
bottling of Bass Ale nave obtamee for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by oi ierlng BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine *nd
HARBTON.
Spirit Merchants
Sole Agents
KLIGWIN and
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTEH BEFORE
Copyrighted.
lEFons AFiEn
A ';
Copyrighted
i. oustacho «nd Whiskers.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this
I aid will do it on either bald
head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2
4: weeks and never fails-, 20,000'
young men already wear full
beards, having used Ito pkts. Ao injury, easily applied' certain
in effect. Packets, 1* (hi. each , 3 for 3<. Gd., postpaid, scut under
cover, free from obs nmtion , address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CHLLAK6 and BODEGA
354 Qeorge-street
(Beneath Paling'!.)
fflHB highest point of perfo ctioll
-1- factureof
Gentlemens
having been reached by ° ur ® e^ o rfl
prepared to supply our Custo t
made of any material, out on *
principle, J
GUARANTEEING PERF® 01 f
COMFORT, erJ , p*
and as we use materials of the ▼ geo iif e
durability and good value are a 1
A. A. DEBNEY *
13 HUNTER
Manufactory
SYDNEY-
I HEAT EASTERN
r<
VT are prepared to he u-- jra
they may be favoured with, on l ; ;
terms.
T arrive—l6o Cases INDIA? 1 r9 rJ 8 fjW
consisting of Chutney,
all the well-known brands. , pfoa
tins and bottles ; Pickles <* gj>«' , p j
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, JJ* pa* 1 .«
Curry ana Mulligatawney , v
Duck, &c. ref
Letters and orders to be 8
manager, sT#*'
31 and 33 HUVTE« gA
I=2. RO'WZji^LIWIIS,
LATi ROWLANDS * LBWIB, W
danvfacturir of OH kinds of JErafod Eatara, Cordials, and Blttors, and Proprietor of Vlgorl**'
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, ud at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. ,
f iko Only Go/o Mtdal for AErated and Minora! Watoroj d»o, anoihtr Go/d Modal for Liououro,
