

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
fg
Uo&jf Hordern £ Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN AUSTRALIA.
mm
. , , v vs. WmWZ&opy']
m
m
m
V//s*
wm
mm
AUTUMN FASHIONS.
Tlie laL-st, the Freshest,
the very Newest.
PBBTTILY TRIMMED
Uiigiitt! Jerseys
From 7/9.
sdfg
FASHIONABLE ITEMS.
NO END OF A CHOICE
of
kit Jersey Jackets
at
VERY LOW PRICES.
AN EXQUISITE DISPLAY
of
AUTUMN MILLINERY.
v' t .
%
m
7
■ :
m
m
m
*
■
* BOYS* CLOTHIN& has our speoisl oare. We study the exigencies of the situation in every way; we see that the boys are well and serviceably clothed,
and we are careful, in the interest of tne parent, to keep prices down to the lowest ebb. »
THE palace emporium is close to the railway station.
V
*s} IN a
I V t |*e U >
a and Peyton’s, and Kendrick’s Bedsteads,
r> 1 Nickel mounts.
k a ••iiu j ny twi ttim jvu*11 ivtv
W/s "Polished pillars, Bronze and Nicke
( r ass-mounted Half Tester, €3!
Ijoj *G TKOUSEIt SUITS, in Fancy
sdf
gsd
A
EAEE
SHOW
of
Bedsteads
JUST
NOW.
1 1
200 Sample (icdstcad*.-
always on view
Biggest, Best, and Most Varied Stock of Bedsteads in
Australia. All kinds. All prices. Grand quality.
Magnificent finish. Extreme Durability.
Tweeds, Nine and Sixpence !
IMI, faarkit My.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
WT Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, BlacksmithiDg
Plumbing, Qasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORO If ORKS, 8 & 9 Miacquarle Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
m
m
-
i\ Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN TUB
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
iTEia-ST'OTTiS
STGTEM.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR- J. HAYDOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation. From
Its size aid spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz.; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
Bystem. r
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It Is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, cr the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marlred
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
5. S«r,rtburn-
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
6, A had taste in the mouth, geggpiat-y in the morning, and furred tongue.
6, Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
S'. Headache in front of head.
s. Depression of i.piritsand gre°t melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to ’ vve
' everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to chow functional derangement of the liver; and now come* the
iw.iMjrtattne *vf *ny erro? mado.sj to the condition. of the patient. He shoald immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of whioh is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Dr. Huydock’s New Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Biok Headache, Dr. Haydosk’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Prioe Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BT ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every PHI in Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad-
dress on receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUT AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY.
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J.H.Franci
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. HaydockW Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market, any scep-
tio have a sample bottle sent Mm free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 GEORGE STREET.
WT WBDDINGB, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCHOTT «Ss. CO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEOPSE STREET, SYDNEY, N SJ;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
K$T LAEGSST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
KBE&EKBLAJN*S
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
flriHIS Botel Is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, *o
1 Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirit*
fhe most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
Baumann,
107 Pitt-atreet,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
UF" LUNCH RON * KKFRRBJiMHNT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GINTLIMRN.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, mil
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKI^J
GENERAL IRONMONGER^
lion, in, d urn i!NO
Importers ol
TOOLS «ou r
BAlL w^*& N £»9£H ER CONTRACTORS’
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING * rura r o ,
MATERIALS, BQUATTKRB’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB, PULTB, SHEET
and HOOP IKON
GALVANISED OORRU
GATED and PLAIP
IRON
SHE ET and PIIPO
RATED ZINC: TIP
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, an.
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
BHEARING SUPPLIED
BUILDERS’ IRONHON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BfiftCßl
liMtS
and Sf# I'* 1 '*
ginbs
ZONTA^
S TBAf
' pm a ‘,,m
’£%&
tbaM
w '"". ,„>>
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
CO'
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Olio*
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND EN&INE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DAKLI« w
SYDNEY:
- W GRACJSCRUHOB
Alex. Borthwick. q\s
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. U <
252. G-e©rgf©-st_, S 3
OFFORD & CO.’S H
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George ® l J
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Com Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 3s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Beyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), Cd.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 In box, Is.—makes two
quarts line custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linobus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold In the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2i. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
DENTISTS
14-eci *4 awl
NE 51
MACHI
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE ST OO
NEWE
AT
LOWEST
cosI !
A
J
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOE C
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
I» c
FREE
freso®J2>
found
LIFE,” for the speedy cu^f #n c> r ' gCi
Lost Manhood, Despond® fJ . £ e.
this book will be sent P o£ j
Address-- gf?.. £ f /
8. WABD * ~,**
7p !»«'
stumps.


THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 153 -New Scrlei.
SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 1886.
Frlot—64. i
The Contract of Monarchy.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 1886.
“ The health of the Queen, proposed by Lord
Hobhodse, was reoeived with a burst of
hisses.” This was at a dinner given to the
English Labour representatives on the 24th
February, at the Criterion, London. About
two-thirds of the banqueters refused any
other response and obstinately kept their
seats, while the minority honoured the toast
in customary fashion. A week before this,
at a complimentary banquet to the Liberal
member for Mid-Derbyshire, a suggestion to
close proceedings by singing the National
Anthem was strongly objected to, and on
being put to the meeting, was rejected by
nearly 150 votes. Hissing and groaning
mingled with the cheers which saluted the
Queen when entering the House of Lords to
open the present session of Parliament, and
on the 26th February, the London Standard,
the recognised organ of the extremist Con-
stitutional Toryism, dared to assert that—
“ There is no room In the English Constitution
for a BoveoeHgn who lives in almost complete
seclusion. . . The Scotch moorrknd the waters
of the Solent are more attractive, more peaceful,
and more invigorating than the air of Buckingham
Palace and St. James' Park. . . In the long run
nothing can stand in this country that has not
public opinion and public sentiment on its side,
and sentiment is not kept alive by seclusion on
the part of the pers6n’.wbo should inspire it.”
Emphatic demonstrations of “ disloyalty ”
such as these prove that members of the three
main parties of English politics are dissatis-
fied with the Sovereign in so great a degree
that they are impelled to manifest their
displeasure and sense of injury in a manner
which in each case is certainly “disloyal,”
and in either case also borders upon sedi-
tion. Had these “ signs of the times ” beea
observed only at gatherings of the ignoble
and uncouth, no very great amount of
significance would perhaps attach, hut coin-
cidemtly with the demonstrations at Radical
and Liberal gatherings comes the dictum of
the Tory Standard : “ There is no room in
the English Constitution for & sovereign who
lives in almost complete seclusion.”
* * *
A noticeable point about the Standard’s
statement is that the grievance complained
of, and regarded as of such importance as
to imperil the occupancy of the Throne, is
simply Her Majesty’s “seclusion.” This
plaoes in a strong [light the Tory require-
ments from royalty. Continual pageantry
and magnificent mummery must surround
the Throne if the Sovereign is to retain her
position thereon. It is evidently not neces-
sary to the Tory appreciation of a monarch
that he or she should be intelligent, gener-
ous, or virtuous; all that is demanded is
that the unpardonable sin of “seclusion”
should not be committed. From the utter-
ances quoted, the deduction is clear that a
Sovereign who is not commended by con-
tinuous display is not worthy of a place in
the British Constitution. Had the Standard
seen fit to censure the Queen for any alleged
indifference to the sufferings of the poor;
on account of neglecting [to patronise and
encourage the arts and sciences, or for any
disgraceful promotions of a lot of lazy and
dissolute German favourites at the expense
of the nation, the criticism, harsh though it
would have been to the Monarch, would
yet have served to commend the system; but
to condemn the Queen on the grounds of
her seclusion is to oondemn with the same
words the system of Monarchy, which, ac-
cording to the Tory view, needs pageantry
to render it capable of maintaining its plaoe
at the head of the Constitution.
- • •
Contemptible as may be the necessary
a ttributes of a sovereign according to the
Tory view, it is satisfactory evidence of the
advance of thought that even apologists of
royalty demand something, although it be
only abstinence from seclusion, from the
Sovereign. The Tories when they first became
prominent and acknowledged as a party,
based their creed on what Hallam defines as
“ the indefeasible hereditary right of the
Crown and the duty of absolute non-resis-
tance.” Then it was that Brady tried to
prove that Magna Charta, the first book of
the Bible of British Liberty, and all other
Constitutional enactments were but “ re-
bellious encroachments on the uncontrol-
lable imprescriptible prerogative of mon-
archy.” Then, too, Sir Robert Filmer
wrote“ As kingly power is by the law of
God, so hath it no inferior power to limit it.
The father of a family governs by no other
MR. JOHN CASH NEILD,
Member for Paddington in the N.S.W. Assembly.
law than his own will, not by the laws and
wills of his sons and servants. ... The
direction of the law is but like the advice
and direction which the king’s council gives
the king, which no man says is a law to the
king. ... A man is bound to obqr the
king’s command against law, nay, in some
oases, against Divine laws.” In the same
reign, too, the Tories had asserted in their
addresses of loyalty to the Crown that the
king ought to exercise all his prerogatives,
unprompted by, and if necessary, in de-
fiance of, the unsolicited declaration of the
people; hence, they became known as
“ abhorrers,” because they expressed their
abhorrence of the Whig petitions presented
in the hope of influencing the conduct of
the king. It is necessary to notice these
doctrines, because, as we shall endeavour to
show, they are those, which, designedly
or not, influence the Abigails of New
South Walts politics, and induce them to
make an outrageous burlesque of their
alleged loyalty.
• • *
It is abundantly evident that the Stan-
dard has seceded from the traditions and
doctrines as quoted which coistitute the
foundation of Toryism. Its conductors
recognise the undeniable fact, taught by all
impartial history, and evidenced by such
constitutional compacts as Magna Charta,
the Bill of Rights, and the Act of Settle-
ment-compacts which kings were sworn
to observe before they were allowed to
accept or retain the Crown, that monarchy
is the result of a national contract
between the Sovereign and the people,
enforcing mutual obligations, conferring
certain specified rights, and entailing certain
duties, upon neglect of which, penalty to the
offending party may ensue. That any
contrary vfew has ever been held is only to
be accounted for by the interested ravings
of the clergy, the designing and oorrupt
flattery of a venal nobility and Court, and
the ignorance, superstition, and consequent
gullibility of the people. The liberties
which British subjects now enjoy were
almost without exception bought by sub-
sidy, or other money grant, or else won by
successful rebel’ior. Kings and queers
throughout English history have bargained
with their Pailiaments until the balance of
money and redress of grievance was made
to the satisfaction of each party; and of
the four great Statutes upon which our
Liberty is secured, Magna Charta was wrung
from King John at the, sword’s point: the
Petition of Rights was agreed to by Charles
I. that his crown might not be taken from
him : the Bill of Rights William of Orange
was sworn to observe before he was
acknowledged as ruler; and the Act of
Settlement prescribed the terms upon which
the successors of Queen Ann* were to be
admitted' to the fovereignty. These enact-
ments furnish indisputable proof of a com-
pact between the monarch and the people*
but there are other obligations, not to be
found in the written Constitution aU
though indicated by its tenor. Different
English parties define these duties incum-
bent on the sovereign according to the dic_
tatei of thtir various doctrines, but all ar®
agreed that such obligations exist. The
Radical demands from his highest earthly
ruler an example of morality and virtue*
the Liberal requires that the King or Prince
should be a patron of the arts, literature >
and science, and the more modest Conserva-
tive asserts that the sovereign for whom
“there is room in the English Constitution ”
should gratify the nation with a display of
vain pomp and empty pageantry.
* * *
Seeing, then, that the sovereign is one of
the covenanters to a bilateral contract
entailing certain duties, upon the due per-
formance of which the maintenance of the
compact itself depends, it follows that criti-
cism by the people of their Queen’s action
must be incident to her possession of the
Crown. That this criticism may take the
form of censure, and that the people are
justified in censuring what their judgment
or observation leads them to condemn, is
also indisputable. True loyalty never did
demand that men should pass over in ap-
proving silence that which they could not
commend in their sovereign. When GeorUb
the Fourth was the nation’s “fountain of
honour,” the degradation of his Court and
the notorious viciousness of his own conduct
were matters for which it was the manifest
duty of every virtuous subject to openly
and unreservedly censure the King. Parlia-
ment, at appropriate times, may criti-
cise the sovereign, and the same right is
possessed by every subject. Again, the king
may, if he choose, put an end, by abdication*
to the contract upon which he has entered;
while, on the other hand, he holds his high
position only by the constitutionally-im-
plied consent of his subjects. If they decide
through their representatives that they are
unwilling to maintain their king, his con-
tinuance of regal power is impossible.
Therefore, as this option of withdrawal
from the original agreement rests with the
subject as well as with the king, the right td
hold an opinion as to the advantage of con-
tinuing the contract is common to every
oitizen. If the monarch misuses his posi-
tion, so that the power given to him to ex-
ercise for the benefit of his subjects beoomd
a national curse, public indignation may be
rightfully expected. That Queen Victoria
has been accused of a negleot of her royal
duties to the detriment of the nation is well-
known, and the Labour banquetters who
hissed the toast of ioyalty at the Criterion,
as well as those who refused to sing the
National Anthem in Mid-Derbyshire, and
the aristocratic and Conservative Standard
which voiced the indignation of its party,
are rather to be blamed for the excessive
moderation of their conduct than on ac-
count of its probable offensiveness to Her
Majesty.
* * *
Popular sentiment on these points in New
South Wales, if measured by the legislation
of a Martin, the frenzy of an Abigail, the
special pleading of a Dalley, or the spout-
ing of his understudy, the eloquent O’Con-
nor, would seem to be siuriar to that which
dominated England when l ilmbr, who


taught that the king was not only above
human law, but above Divine law as well,
was regarded as a reliable authority. Only
by supposing that Mr. Abigail holds royalty
to be equal to the Deity, can his extra-
ordinary letter to the Colonial Secretary de-
manding instant enquiry into the alleged
hooting of Her Majesty’s name at Botany
be explained. If, as we maintain, the Queen
is the creature of law, she ia necessarily re-
sponsible if her actions be not shch as the
Constitution requires. To say that she is
above criticism and censure is to assert her
independence of all human law; to maintain
that all her actions are worthy of praise is
to assert that she is possessed of direot and
continuous Divine control. The conduct of
the “professional loyalists” of N.S.W. in
describing the Queen as a model for the
angels is akin to the practice of the coiners
of the national money, who represent Her
Majesty’s fat, heavy, German face in pro-
file as that of a olassic Grecian maiden of
some sixteen summers. It would be inter-
esting to ascertain Whether the orators who
so fervidly describe what the Queen ought
to be, and not what she really is, themselves
believe in the truthfulness of their lauda-
tory periods: if so, they are two hundred
years behind the age; if not, their ultra-
loyalty can only be assumed for a purpose,
and will at once be rejected when that pur-
pose can no longer be served.
* * *
The glaring contrast between the popular
English view of monarchy, and the “loyal”
view of it in New South Wales is one which
does no credit to ourselves. Had a number of
men .deliberately, .and with unmistakeable
emphasis, refused to drink the Queen’s
health here, we doubt not but that
another Martin would have come forward
with a second Treason Felony Act, declar-
ing such a refusal to be a treason, entailing
two years’ imprisonment on the offender ;
and, judgmg by precedent, the Sydney
Morning Herald would have eagerly sup-
ported such a piece of legislative degrada-
tion, but in England the action affords a sub-
ject for a few brief newspaper paragraphs*
and there the matter ends. And again, if
The Bulletin had ventured to print on its
own authority the Standard condemnation
of the Queen, it is safe to suppose that the
entire staff would be now in Darlmghurst.
Tet, after all, the Standard has done wisely
in demanding a quid pro quo from the
sovereign. Monarchy in England cannot
be long sustained unless a reasonable return
be made to the people for their support and
fealty. Sincere loyalty to a sovereign who
refuses to do anything to merit support is
utterly unreasonable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Rebellious Orangemen.
lOrd Randolph Churchill, finding that the
English Commons are determined to give Home
Rule to Ireland, has set himself to stir up the Irish
Conservatives and Orangemen to rebellion against
the Parliament and Queen. Speaking at Belfast
he is reported to have said: —
“In the North, the great privileges you possess
are worth defending, are worth demonstrating for,
and by Heaven they are worth fighting for. Ido
not myself fear that so heavy a trial could be put
upon you, but 1 impress upon you to keep the
organisation in perfect readiness.” (Cheers.)
Hero is a spectacle for the gods! A leader
of that Tory party whose object is the main-
tenance of the Constitution, urging the Orange-
men, the professional loyalists, whose only
excuse for the existence of their organisa-
tian is their supposed loyalty to and defence of
thelCrown and Constitution, to set all the powers
of Government at defiance if bo heavy a trial as
Home Rule is “ put upon ” them. The ultra-
loyalists, in the event of a certain action of the
Commons, are to become revolutionists: the con-
servators of the Constitution are to array them-
selves in rebellion against it. Startling as the
poaition.is, it is by no means novel. The disap-
pointed Royalists at the Restoration threatened
subversion of the Crown, which, before the Com.
monwealth, they had asserted to be a Divine gift,
and in the reign of James 11. the same clergy who
had talked themselves hoarse in teaching the doc.
trine of “absolute non-resistanoe” and "unlimited
passive obedience ” to the Divinely-directed will
of the king, as long as that will inclined in their
own favour, intrigued against James, and rebelled
against his authority as soon as he refused to sub-
mit to their dictation. It is evident that the Con.
servatives and Orange Loyalists only regard
patriotism as a virtue when the Royal and National
favour inclines to them, and so it comes that the
teachers of the “ right divine of kings to govern
wrong,” forsake their maxims and become rebels,
as soon as their own wishes are disregarded. The
bigotry of these Irish Orangemen dominates their
loyalty, as it does that of their Australian
brethren. For two centuries the Orangemen
have posed as fervidly loyal subjeots, while the
Romanists have been denounced as rebels; now,
when legislation seems likely to confer a too long
withheld right on the latter, the professed loyalists
cheer seditious spoutings, and keep their organi-
sation prepared for acts of high treason. Hynd-
man cried for Socialistic reforms, while CnußCH-
iiill, for party purposes, preached undis-
guised sedition. One was accounted a disrepu-
table agitator, and has been in the dock for his
action, while the other and more guilty offender
is saved by his “nobility” from any legal or
social punishment. The further development of
Irish affairs will now possess a new point
of interest, Orangeism has declared not only
at this Churchill gathering, but at lother recent
meetings that loyalty must subserve imagined
self-interest, and should therefore be regarded as
a creed dangerous to the State and the public peace
of the Empire. This attitude of Orangeism on its
native soil will embarrass the Australian members
of the Order. They must either sacrifice their
loyalty or their allegiance to the source from
which they sprung. If the former, they will take
the place of the conspirators discovered at
Kiama long ago; if on the other hand they forfeit
their allegiance to Ulster, they will admit that
their order only exists for the purposes of making
members of such men as Abigail the Fonetik*
Neild the Stale-pun Oracle, Henson the Pious,
Lloyd of Glorious Memory, Holborow the
Horator, and other such political “ duffers.”
4
Dr Barry on Divorce.
Dii. Barry, of Sydney, refreshed by his long and
invigorating New Zsaland trip, has announced by
letter and sermon his determined opposition to Sir
Alfred Stephen’s Extension of Divorce Bill.
Had be confined bis utterances to his own fol-
lowers, notice of them would perhaps have been
unnecessary, but as he professes to attempt to
stem the tide of progressive legislation, he sub-
mits himself to public criticism. Of course, like
all other ecclesiastical debaters, he bases his oppo-
sition upon that verse, St. Mark xix , 9, which for
1000 years has been able to oppose any large
reform of the divorce laws, and from the unction
with which he dwells on it one would think that
every word of the Bible was a law to him. If one
verse of an answer given to the Pharisees is of
such import to a people who are 1800 years ahead
of them in civilisation one would think that every
sentence would be observed in letter and spirit by
a bishop. Yet only a dozan verses further on we
find the Great Teacher saying, “ If thou wilt be
perfect go and sell that thou hast and give to the
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven ;’>
and really we don’t remember to have h<?ard that
Dr. Barry has given up his little £2OOO, or what"
ever his billet may be worth, for the benefit of the
poor. And, in the same chapter we read, “It is
easier for a camel to go through the eye of a
needle than for a rich man to enter into the
Kingdom of God,” but in spite of this we fail to
recollect’ that Dr. Barry has ever preached
much about the iniquity of possessing riches t
Further, we distinctly remember to have read a
Scriptural injunction to “Take no thought for
your life what ye shall oat, neither for your body
what ye shall put on;” yet, as far as we know, Dr.
Barry seems to be reasonably well nourished,
and his dress looks quite the thing in cut and
quality. We don’t say that the Bishop should
not look after himself, his dress, and his screw,
just as he does now, but it will appear strange to
all except his own flock that while he should
insist upon the universal, literal application of one
verse of Scripture, he should apparently refuse to
literally apply to himself and teach his people these
other texts of the Bible. Dr. Barry admits our
contention of last week when he says:
“Of course all thoughtful men must have known
the individual hardships and temptations which
ensue when the marrisga tie, remaining still un-
broken, is not hallowed by the mutual love and
self-sacrifice which both nature and Holy Scrip-
ture so emphatically teach. They cannot but look
with sorrow and deep sympathy on the darkening
and wrecking, through these causes, of so many
innocent lives ”
Accepting this admission, we do not think it
necessary to traverse the remainder of his ful-
mination. It is because we look with “deep
sympathy on the wrecking of so many innocent
lives,” that we desire to see an amendment of the
divorce laws. To permit and continue the wreck-
ing of innocent lives Dr. BARRy produces a com-
mand given to a people amongst whom a dissatisfied
husband was able to put away his wife by his own
act, and with whom bad cooking was a valid plea
for this home-made divorce, and insists upon its
literal observance with the people of our genera-
tisn who propose still to leave it to a Court to
pronounce its decree. When Dr. Barry acts ia
complete accord with the other passages we have
quoted, we will re-consider his argument.
4
The Grand Old Man.
It is evident, from this week’s cablegrams, that
Mr.'.GLADSTONE’s Irish proposals have landed him
in a position of immense difficulty, and he must
indeed have a lion’s heart, such as no statesman
since Cromwell has possessed, to undertake such
a work as the liberation of Ireland without the
help of, and even ia opposition to his colleagues.
Chamberlain, Trevelyan, Beneage, and Lord
Morley secede from his Cabinet, and yet he per-
severes. Lord Hartington stands up and offers,
in the name of the “Moderate Liberals,” to
coalesce with tho Tories, and still he does not
waver. Whatever may be the outcome of the
fight, history shews no more splendid spectacle
than that of the ” Grand Old Man ” entering single
handed into this struggle against such desperate
odds on behalf—not of his own country, but of
a people hot with the deadly hatred and resent-
ment that spriDgs from the wroDgs inflicted on
them by his country in generations past.
His present isolated position reminds one forcibly
©f Cromwell who, when not by any means sure
of his power, told his colleagues, Lord Exeter
and General Fairfax, that they had better go
over to the Royalists, and then England would
know herfoej. Mr. Gladstone s real loss, how-
ever, is in the secession of Joseph Chamberlain
who specifically stated that helresigned his position
rather than pay over £250,000,009 to the Irish
landlords. Even this, however, is quite justifiable
on the broadgrounds that it was through England
that Ireland was saddled at all with the vile incu-
bus of landlordism which—
" Like some loathsome ulcer that leechcraft can-
not cure,
Has gradually eat away the substance of the
poor,”
and that England should pay for its removal.
But still it is hard to see such sums of money,
wrung chiefly from the toiling millions of Eng-
land, going into the hands of those men who have
sucked the blood of Ireland till she has no more
wherewith to supply them, To the weak-
kneed Hartington and his followers the great
Gladstone, serene and steadfast at 77, might
justly apply thB words of Cromweli. referred to
above. There is no more of the desire to secure
human rights for human beings—which is true
Radicalism—in Lord Hartington and his aristo-
cratic and plutocratic following than in the out.
and-out Conservatives. Now that the “live” por-
tion of the “Liberals” of England have become
“ Radicals,” the residuum, the “Moderate Whigs,”
• ate nothing more nor less than “Tories that are
ashamed of themselves.” Let them go over to
Lord Salisbury, and “let England know her
foes.”
- »
Capital v. Combinations.
Mr. GGodchap, the New South Wales Commis-
sioner for Railways, in trying to prevent the for-
mation of a union of the railway employees, like
Bishop Baßry in opposing the extension of
divorce, is simply matching his strength against
the gathering force of the tide of modern thought
and action. Each of these men may, perhaps,
succeed in stemming the flow of that tide,
but if so in either case it will be but a tem-
porary triumph, the prelude to a disastrous
defeat. Mr. Good Chap can hardly have noticed
the course of modern history if he is not aware
that the sellers of their labour having long ago
realised that to attempt to contract with capita*
unless they themselves wore united was
simply to ensure ruinous depreciation of
the value of their only capital—their power
of mental or physical exertion have
found their only defence in organisation and
combined resistance. The contracts of the
future must be made by united Labour covenant-
ing with Capital. Now that the workers have
found that by combination they can make and
preserve advantageous treaties With Capital, it
would be a retrograde policy, foolish in the ex-
treme, to abandon anything that has been gained
and ail that facilitates the formation of these
unions, and as modern civilisation cannot stand
still, there must ever be increasing efforts to in-
crease by the means found so efficacious in
the past, the number and strength of such organi-
sations. This movement on the part of the railway
employees is merely the precursor of others in all
branches of trade. That many disastrous encoun-
ters will ensue while the forward advance of
Labour is being made is unfortunately a matter of
eertainty, but not until Capital and Labour, meet
upon equal terms,—become allies instead of
foes—will the full advantages of their efforts
accrue to the State.
"Mock-piety as a palliative of Criminal Of-
fences” would be an interesting subject for
an essay. Ia Geelong, the other day, a
sanctimonious water-rate collector was charged
with embezzlement. The worthy got off with
a couple of months or so, on his counsel s
pathetic plea that “ the money hadn’t been
squandered in drink or betting, but was used to
supply personal needs.” Such a defence would
touch the heart of any magistrate in a hot-bed of
cant like GeeloDg; but, looked at from a sinner’s
point of view, it meant that the water-rate man
was a thief in cold blood. Now, hear how Chief
Justice Way ticks off Mr. Bible-text Crooks, at
Adelaide:—" Your conduct cannot be compared
with that of criminals who fall into misconduct
by being unable to resist sudden temptation, in
consequence of vicious associations, or in conse-
quence of bad early training. And as you have
yourself pointed out, the worst feature of the
case is the breach of the trust and confidence in
you.” Mr. Crooks was accommodated with “the
full term which the law allows.” Evidently then,
Geelong magistrates differ from the practical
Caiof Justice of BA. in their estimate of pallia-
tives o? crime. But although Mr. Crooks brought
his piety into the wrong box on this occasion, we
cordially recommend all intending embezzlers to
stiok to text and “ respectability.” Let them
assume a virlue when they have it not, and in the
majority of instances there is bound to be a bond
of sympathy between them and the Court.
♦
Where has our dog Toby gone? Why, poor
Toby has been hanged, and is now being boiled
down under the auspices of the police force. The
tendency of existing regulations is to turn the
Sydney police into an army of dog-stealers,
for the constables are paid by results and
get half-a-crown per head for all vagrant
canines “run in”by them. If the zealous Consta-
ble X got half-a-soveregn for each drunken
man he captured every citizen who sneezed
m'ght be arrested on a charge of delirium tremens.
But the evil now complained of does not merely
consist of the unjust incarceration of innocent
and helpless dogs. All kinds and conditions of
“ barkers,” rarging from the nameless mangy
mongrel to Maud the high-toned poodle, are
dragged into the same narrow gaol, where, we are
informed, they are kept for 48 hours or so; then
they are unscientifically strangled without benefit
of clergy. But even then the blue-coated bar-
barian has not done his worst. Toby’s corpse is
taken out of town and boiled down; his skin and
fat are sold to the tanners, and his flesh given to
the fowls. Wearotold of an instance in which a
splendid cattle-dog, “ who could do everything
but talk,” and was worth a £5O note, found his
way into the pot, simply because his master was
unaware of the ex stence of a brutal system that
assigns no value to an educated dog. If Toby
must die, let him die easily; if, however, the
hereditary prejudices of those in high authority in-
sist on Toby beiag hanged, then let him be scien-
tifically hanged. The police are paid extra for
hanging him; and we don’t see why money should
be unnecessarily expended in this direction, while
those two hulking man-butchers-the official
hangmen—to whom the colony pays £l5O and
£l2O per annum respectively, loaf around with
their lcnuckly fingers in their well-lined pockets.
We are told that 2500 dogs were murdered with-
out trial last year in Sydney, and that the hanging-
fees added to the proceeds of the dog-boiling
business amount to something like £4OO per an-
num. As Lord Carington can’t very welt give
his patronage to the present Sydney dog-boiling
system, we hope to see him, in his capacity as a
good sportsman, do at least the ornamental part of
the business for a Home for Lost Dogs.
4
In view of recent events the advisableness of stait-
ing a Bank Clerks’ Gaol must strike the social re-
former with great force. Every colony has at the
present time several of these spruce young men
by the collar. What is the use of running them
into any of our common gaols ? They will be
compulsorily idle during almost all the time of
their incarceration, or, if there is any sort oi
nameable work given them it will be such as
carries the most trifling commercial value. The
consequenoe is that these bankers will have to be
fed very muoh at the expense of the outside pub-
lic. The young men did the general body of the
outside public no serious injury. They sinned
against the bank corporations only. But,
omitting one or two, the genteel youths re-
ciprocated the grinding parsimony of their
employers by dropping some of the employers’
sovereigns into their deep empty pockets. An
effort should be made to keep up the play of wits
between the two classes. The outside public should
not interfere to punish the clerk who cribs from a
grinding master, as it does not interfere to punish
a master who cribs, under the knowledge that the
market is full of that sort’of labour, from a needy
clerk. What Society wants presently is a Bank
Clerks' Gao), supported by bank corporations, for
bank clerks alone. What it will look for imme-
diately after will be a Bankers’ Gaol, supported out
of dividends, for members of bank corporations,
who, knowing that young men have a fad for such
service, pay them only as much as keeps a very
small body and a very small soul together.
—4
The reckless manner in which national debts are
being piled up of late years suggests the awkward
question—Will they ever be paid ? And the answer
comes in the words of Mr. Edgar Poe’s raven—
Nevermore. Taking France for an example,
country has piled up debts to the amount of
£1,000,000,000 in about 150 years. The burden cannot
be reduced, in fact things are growing wore e
instead of better. If the French Government goes
on as it has begun, about the year 2500 it will owe
six thousand millions, and there is not money
enough in the solar system to pay the bill. What
is worse, there will not be money enough on all
this mortgaged planet to meet the interest, and if
the statesmen of the Republic hypothecate their
hopes of the hereafter and sell their share of the
golden city they will still be short. On the other
hand, Francs may, perhaps, start on a career of
strict economy; may give up war, abandon all
ideas of military glory, and annex no more fighting
Asiatics: and in that case it is calculated she
might pay off her debt by the year 3800 a.d.
It is pretty safe to prophesy however, that
before that date France will be gone from the
maps, and will have died insolvent. Britain is
doing pretty well in the same direction. It takes
tact and experience to owe money successfully,
but where is the difficulty that British pluck can-
not surmount? By the time that we have heard
the last of the “ three acres and a cow,” it is cal-
culated the United Kingdom will owe something
like £1,500,000.000, for England and Scotland have
to be reckoned with as well as the Emerald Isle.
Before this is paid off we are inclined to think that
Edward the 127th will be dying of old age, and
probably by that time three cripples and a hospital
will be all that is left of Great Britain. Therefore
let us eat and drink and be merry, and meet the
misfortunes which are approaching (to the credi-
tors of our mother-land) with the courage for
which the Anglo-Sixon has so long been famed.
The loan policy of N.B.W. contrasts creditably with
that of the nations of Europe. The borrowed
money used here is all spent on reproductive
works such as railways and gaols, the latter in-
vestment showing about 90 per cent—loss-on the
dollars expended.
4
At Tamworth, New South Wales, the genial judge
Windeyer has just sentenced Joseph Cardwell to
12 years’ penal servitude and two floggings of 25
lashes each. Let us ask a question of the savages
who are responsible for the existence of the
flogging law. Why should a man be flogged when
he is sent to gaol for a-fifth of his natural life ? If
you flog a long-sentenced prisoner, a man whom
you, however justly, send into the darkness for
4380 days and nights—l 2 years—on what principle
of logic can you object to the old system of tortur-
ing a man about to die by the hand of the public
executioner ? Are the N.S.W. public such a set of
accursed fools that they believe in the present
system, or is it that they are ridden over rough,
shod by men whose views on criminal juris-
prudence are shared by the authorities of no other
nations except China and Dahomey ? Lord Caring-
tOD, Governor of New South Wales, will redeem
this brutality if he wishes to let us see that he is fit
for something more solid than the distribution
soft-sawder.
NOTICE,
The Rates oe Subscription to “ The Bulletin”
are as follows : -
One year 24/- In advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter.. 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, to whom all orders
for the paper, advertisements, and remittances
should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £1.
Mr. John Cash Neild, M L.A.,
Mr. John Cash Neild, whose portrait graces to-
day The Bulletin’s first page, is, now that we
have lost Burdett Smith, the Beau Brummel of the
N.S.W. Assembly,;in which he has represented
Paddington since last, general election—a contest
whereof the most important feature was the
entry to public life of the subject of this notice.
Mr. Neild, whose personal appearance would
adorn the Faubourg St. Germain even on a fete
day, has already politically wrecked himself by
publicly posing as an inveterate and miserable
punster. He drifted into Parliament on a sea of
bad jokes, and may possibly continue there for a
time if he holds on to the coat-tails of Orangeism.
Mr. Neild is a musician, and a tolerably execrable
poet. His age has never been definitely ascer-
tained, but he is at least old enough to know
better.
To avoid all mistakes ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flasr and tioral decorations, GOMj Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Ask for Wolfe's Schncipvs, and take no
other.


Those awful monstrosities, the Sydney
Post Ofiioe carvings, are to stay where they are 11
Proctor says the ichthyosaurus had eyes a
foot in diameter, and that if we had such it would
hardly improve our appearance. It would
come rather expensive for a man who wanted
spectacles to have to import a couple of cases of
plate-glass.
We notioe that the Reverend Zachary
Barry, L.L.D., differs from the Primate in re the
divorce question. The fact is significant, inas-
much as the reverend doctor is usually considered
The Pious Pirate Hoists His Flag.
to be Superior in intellect to his bishop, whoever
inat dignitary may be.
Some few months ago Governor Loftus
Passed through Bathurst, and the inhabitants re-
used to even deputationise and address the poor
old man Now, the festive young Governor Caring-
goes to the “City of the Plains,” and the
plaoe is turned inside out to welcome him.
a Hereby hangs a moral. B ithurst’s history is
bound up with that of the ricn gold-fields, and of
oourse anything to be worthy of Bathurst’s atten-
tion must be well coated with the precious metal,
bora Loftus had but a scanty stook of the article:
bord Carington has an overplus.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council, last
week. Dr. Creed referred to “the Intense, one
is almost . . . justified in saying, the insane
objection of M. Grdvy, President of the French
Republic, to the carrying out of capital sentences.”
In this case the insanity, if existent, is on the side of
Dr. Creed. In England the chief executioner has
just hanged II men within 14 days-a fact which,
we suppose, can hardly be regarded as evidencing
the deterrent effect of a system which has been in
full force during unnumbered centuries, and to the
eflioacy of which all history gives the lie. The death
punishment, when it was impartially administered
for every class of offences, from stealing a four-
penny loaf to cutting up your grandmother,
was no deterrent —crime increased with the
mu tiplication of hangmen. Physioal death
(the fear whereof, as Dr. Creed knows
better than we do—often comes too late,
and only when an avoidable, and at one stage re
mediable disease has made fast its hold upon the
physical constitution) is but a type of the moral
death to which the mind of a deliberate murderer
suecumbs, and which, like its physical analogue,
arrives not suddenly, but by easy stages. The
prospect of the gallows deterred not the old-
time outcast who coveted the fatal 415., nor
does it ever enter into or control the crooked
brain of the man whose mind is consumed by the
fierce passion of greed, or of lust, or of revenge.
When the England, which is the motherland of
Dr. Creed, fought at the behest of Pitt, to crush
the risiDg liberties of the human race, the first
plaoe in the van of freedom’s legions was taken
by Republican Prance, whose people he affects to
despise, and whose immigrants he, with the assist-
ance of Mr. Darley, Q.C , wonld poll-tax like the
Chinese. The ever-logical Frenchman has at last
come to see the folly of killing in cold blood to
repress murder. Now it is the Englishman’s
turn to have the skin removed from his
eyes. Let us quote an extract we have just
happened upon in the latest number of the most
widely-circulated of English weekly newspapers—
a journal, by the way, which has hitherto advo-
cated capital punishment: "An unusual number of
executions have taken place within the last few
days, most of them the consequence of habitual
excessive drinking. The triple execution at Car-
lisle is likely to attract attention, but we fear the
deterrent effects are of the smallest. Instead of
seeina in the gallows the inevitable punishment for
murder, men of criminal intent begin to pick the
story to pieces, and explain why the prisoners were
caught, if only such and such a precaution had
been taken escape would have been easy. As for the
execution of men who, in the blind fury of a
drunken fit, brutally kill their wives or fellow-
labourers, the only advantage is to rid society of
tbeir presence, and the unwillingness of juries to
give a verdict in capital oases often leads to their
acquittal. No fear of punishment will ever control
a drunkard in his madness.” We are all under
sentence of death; the preacher tells us that
weekly from the pulpit. One day a doctor visits
us: the next day (we say this out of no disrespect
to Dr. Creed’s profession) we are dead. Yet we do
not act as if we kept steadily before us the fact
that the death-sentenee pronounced ere we .were
horn would one day inevitably be executed. The
hulk of the world’s inhabitants in health behave as
if they could dodge the Destroyer; and every man
who makes murder a business, in the same way as
the soldier makes a business of war, thinks—if he
thinks about the matter all—that he can evade the
law. Capital punishment disgusts the prudent
and virtuous and brutalizes the bad.
The baby-show held lately at Tenterfleld
was a slow affair. There were only two entries—
one of which was scratched.
Wolfe's Schnapjis is superior to brandy or
whisky.
Wolfe's Schnapps the great remedy for
dyspepsia.


Personal
I tems
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., returns to N.S.W. per
Massilia.
Sir Charles Dilke might make himself
generally useful as a Mormon.
The “ Vagabond ” has gone to represent
the Melbourne Argus at the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition.
The verdict in favour ofJSir Charles Dilke,
and against Mrs. Crawford, was a mixture of poli-
tics and justice.
Herbert Spencer says that Thomas Car-
lyle’s conversation during his Jast years was “ one
long damn.” Now, David Buchanan 1
“ From Julius Cmsarto Napoleon the small
inan has been the best military leader.” The
Sydney Lancers have a boss about Bft. high.
The young Victorian lady to whom the
Marquis of Normanby is to be married left Mel-
bourne for England in the R.M.B. Parramatta.
Ernest Morrison, explorer, at present in
Scotland, threatens a jibelaction against the Cook-
town Courier for charging him with the murder
of a New Guinea nigger.
The Australasian neatly says, of the
Bryce-Rusden libel case, that Rusden “ will have
to pay something like £lO,OOO for having attempted
to relieve dullness by malice.”
Harold Stephen, M.L A., is about to bring
out in Sydney a paper called Public Opinion
Harold had better go over the border. In N.S.W.
it is a crime to publish public opinion.
Thadeus O’Kane’s modest little hint for
his admirers to send around the hat:—“ Want of
cash should not prevent the proprietor of the
Northern Miner from doing the Continong.”
Timothy Foley, late Sergeant of Police,
who, it will be remembered, shot the priest, F.
Healey, at Thomas’ Hotel, Deepwater, N.S.W.,
some years ago, died suddenly the other day at
Narandera.
W. J. Clarke, Bart., gave £250 to the lund
for the London unemployed. The Duke of Edin-
burgh gave £5O. His mother excepted, the Duke
is by far the wealthiest—and meanest—of the
Royal family.
The Melbourne D.T. says Mr. Holt was
“ well known in banking and aristocratic circles in
Sydney.” We are to conclude, then that, in Mel-
bourne, banking circles are not aristocratic circles I
The Cabbage Garden wants civilising.
Rev. Peter Campbell says the Press is the
Devil’s organ, and it must be admitted that his
Satanic majesty has had more than his average
success for some time back. But then that may
be a result of the Rev. Peter being on the other
Bide.
The Illawarra Mercury says that “ Kan-
garoo Valley has grown ashamed of its name, and
wants to change it to CariDgton.” If things keep
going on this way CariDgton will get ashamed of
his name and will want to change it for Opossum
Gulch or Gohanna Flat.
Before leaving Sydney, Beach promised
earnestly, with his hand on the book, not to touch
any alcoholic stimulant whilst away. We don t
know of a man with more reason to bo a rabid
teetotaller than the champion. He has made all he
possesses, fame and riches, on cold water.
Libel proceedings will he taken on behalf
of an absent member of a well-known (and much
trusted) firm of Sydney solicitors, against several
newspapers published in the north of N.S.W.
whioh, the other day, printed a telegram to the
effect that the gentleman in question bad bolted.
Extract from a letter written by Lord
CariDgton to a friend in England; “ Australia is so
excellent a country to travel in that I can scarcely
conceive how it could be improved in any way.
The better olasses here are really so civil and at-
tentive that one could almost do without a valet.”
Flavinius Joseph Cook, the “religious”
humbug who lectured in SydEey a while since,
has just informed the universe that “the chief
trouble of Ireland is that it is Ireland.” The chief
trouble with Joseph Cook is that he is Joseph
Cook. If he had teen somebody else, be might
have had sense.
Mr. 8. W. M’Gowan, deputy P.M.G. of
Victoria, is about to visit the old land on sick
leave. He purposes returning, but many of his
olosest friends think the Post office pile will see
him no more. Meanwhile he has 12 months’ leave.
He has been 32 years in the Victorian Civil serviee
and has all along commanded the confidence of the
public and the genuine goodwill of his brother
officials.
It is oabled that “ the announcement that
the dignity of knighthood was to be conferred on
Mr. Murray Smith, Agent-General of Victoria,
was premature.” We dare say. Any announce-
ment about there being dignity in knighthood
would undoubtedly be premature. Besides, how
ram they knight Murray Smith the servant, while
Berry and Servioe the masters remain plain
Misters ?
The newspapers speak of Beach, the
Bculler, as "Mr. William Beach.” If he gets
beaten they will at once deprive him of his “ Mr.,”
likewise of his William. When tho manager of
the Bank of New Zealand ran away, the S.M.
Herald spoke of him as “ Mr. Holt.” Immedi-
ately he was arrested they alluded to him merely
as “ Holt.” How promptly does society put a man
into gaol-uniform I
3“ Dr.” L. L. Smith, of Melbourne, if we
mistake not, is now in England. And yet ne con-
tinues to advertise in all the country papers
throughout the length and breadth of Australasia:
« To those about to marry I would say consult me
before doing so.” The marriage-rate is regarded
as one of the surest tests of prosperity. L. L. is
making an unpatriotic effort to bring this mighty
country to a standstill.
A gorgeous telegraph-office was opened in
Kempsey ;two weeks ago. Cause of post office
aforesaid-the strenuous efforts of Burdett Smith.
The first message sent through was one asking the
N.S.W. Attorney-General to issue a mandamus to
compel certain magistrates to issue summonses in
a charge of alleged perjury against Burdett afore-
said. The Macleay Argus, which records the
fact, calls it an instance of the irony of fate. But
what will be the late of the irony ?
It is now said that Lord Aylesford (once a
bosom friend of the Prince of Wales) whose wife
ran off with the Duke of Marlborough, and who,
after painting the town red in London for some
years, went away, with £200,000 insurance; on his
life, for the purpose of dying in Texas, isn’t dead,
after all. The insurance money has been paid to
his representatives, and now there is a ghastly
rumour that Aylesford is still alive and up to
bis neck in clover on the proceeds of his life
Insurance.
It seems generally believed that Aksakoff,
the great Russian journalist, who died so suddenly
the other day, was poisoned. Aksakotf’s fierce
attack on the Czar’s policy in the present Bulgarian
imbroglio brought nine warnings from the Pre's
censor, all of which the editor of the Russ dis-
regarded. As Aksakoff was tho head and leader
of Russian Pan-Slavism, it would be dangerous to
suppress him, so he died “of heart disease,” like
SkoDeloff, and the Russ will appear no more. So
says the Daily News correspondent. Both mur-
ders, it is averred, were accomplished by the
German faction, acting at the beck of Bismarok.
The latest full-grown specimen of Caring-
tonolatry from (as usual) “ Humming Bee ” in the
Sydney D.T.:—“The following anecdote shows
that Lord and Lady Carington are rapidly attain-
ing the right sort of popularity. A lady wishing
to engage a servant, and preferring one from the
country, engaged a young woman from Bathurst;
but, on concluding the agreement, was surprised
to learn one of the conditions of the engagement—
which was, that the girl sh oul d not leave her native
town until the termination of the visit of the Go-
vernor and Lady Carington,” Let us see. What
was it that Mr. Labouchere wrote in Truth the
other day?
No news has yet arrived as to what Henni-
ker Heaton had in hi 3 hand when the Speaker told
him to sit down, as newspaper reading was not
allowed in the Commons. But it is believed he
stuffed the Down and Gumtree Jernil into his
hat, went home in a huff, and cabled to Alfred
that he had grave doubts as to the integrity of the
Empire, but he must assure his readers that he
would take every measure in his power to curtail
the rash proposals of Gladstone, and give a dis-
criminating support only to the Salisbury Admin-
istration. He had not yet taken Parnell in hand,
but the colonies could rest assured that when the
time came their interests would be attended to.
An Acglo-Australian paragraph:—lt will
be remembered by many that before the new
Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland could take his seat in
the House of Lords he had to prove, as he moat
thoroughly and conclusively did prove—the
c'aimant was then a lively terror—the identity of
his brother, the sixth earl, with George H. Os-
borne, mate of the brig William Mallory, Junior,
who was lost overboard on his way to Melbourne
—he, impatient of the conventionalities of his
position, having worked his way up from the posi-
tion of a common seaman to that of mate, when
an earl with £30.000 a year. Captain Wilbur, then
commander of the vessel, subsequently died, we
believe, at Calcutta, of cholera.
“ When Lord Carington visited Mudgee
he was introduced to a stalwart aboriginal, well-
known locally. The Governor at once grasped
Charlie by the hand and said, “ How are you ? ” It
appears that Charles was so overwhelmed by the
THE SYDNEY POST-OFFICE CARVINGS.
THE “HIGH ART” OF AH AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT.
MOST APPROPRIATE, AREN’T THEY, FOR A £200,000 PUBLIC BUILDING!
MUD (SKI V K.U'/K-S
unexpected honour that he was at the time incap-
able of reply. He has, however, now written us
explaining that he meant no discourtesy by his
silence, and requesting that, for fear his taci-
turnity on the occasion shouldjbe misconstrued in
official circles, we will be so good as to convey to
the Governor an answer to his question. Our
dusky countryman’s reply to the query of the
Queen's representative is concise and suggestive.
It consists merely of one word—“ Thirsty.”
We don’t advise Wilson, Heaton, and Co.
to try any longer for baronetcies. One baronet has
been sent into penal servitude, several have got
into gaol for drunkenness, &o , one is a notorious
dog-stealer, two or three are “ flahy ” insolvents,
one sweeps a crossing near the London Reform
Club, and another ekes out a precarious livelihood
by photographing rowing-men in their boats with
their second-best girls on the Thames. Even in
Australia we have known one baronet serving as
an ordinary policeman at 7s. 6d. a day, and another
shooting goats for a Queensland Divisional Board
at £l5 per annum. We are glad to see that Sir
Claude de Crespigny, baronet, has become public
hangman. That is the apotheosis of the order of
the Bloody Hand.
How are the mighty fallen! Lord Loftus’
state carriage, once our pride and delight, and in
which many a prime brood of cochins and brahmas
were hatched and reared, is now doing duty at
Oberon as a common conveyance to and from the
Caves. Great excitement was caused in Oberon
when the new owner drove to church in it on Sun-
day last. Most of the “bushies” ran howling to
the scrub and hid themselves in hollow logs when
they caught sight of the ex-vice-regal shandrydan,
being under the firm impression that it was the
Black Marla which had arrived to cart them off to
gaol. By the way, the N.S.W. Government bought
this car of Juggernaut from Lord Augustus when
he left for a hundred or two—and subsequently
sold it for a pound or two.
Oscar Wilde has, we see, contributed his
little bit to the drivelling discussion about “ the
best 100 hooks ” The ideas of this apostle of “ cult-
chaw ” appear to be as original as his toilets.
Without going very deeply into the question of
what to read, Oscar delivers himself of some
solemn words of warning about what not to read.
All argumentative books, and all books that try
to prove anything ” are to be avoided like pisun.
The long-haired humbug is the faithful mouth-
piece of that circle of society in which he moves.
They have a very natural horror of anybody or
any book that seeks to “ prove anything.” Like
Sparkler, in “ Little Dorrit,” the oracular Oscar
Wilde especially cautions his admirers against any-
one who “ wants to know, you know.”
Where on earth did Froude pick up the
extraordinary items of “ information ” which go
to make up his parody on Australia ? He named
the parody “Oceana,” and in it styles Auckland
the workman’s paradise, and says that “eight
shillings a day are the common wages, and the
cost of living is less than in England. A poor
clergyman’s wife asked the price of some hot-
house grapes, and when told, laid them down with
a sigh, at which the dealer sympathisingly re-
marked—’ ’Tisn’t the likes of you that can afford
them grapes; we keeps them for the working-
men’s ladies.’ ” The worst of it is that people in
England swallow such stuff as “ gospel truth,” be-
cause Froudo is the author, and, “he must know,
my dear, for he has been there, and seen for him-
self.”
Sir Charles Dilke promptly met his consti-
tuents at Chelsea to explain to them how it was
that he did not go into the witness-box to clear his
character and that of Mrs. Crawford of the charges
upon the strength of which the Court was induced
to grant a divorce. The baronet’s explanation is
similar to that made by his counsel who affirmed
at the trial that they alone were responsible for
his non-appearance. A vote of confidence was
passed at the meeting by a majority of 300 to 6.
Accepting tho statement that Sir Charles was pre-
pared to disprove the petitioner’s evidence, Mrs.
Crawford must be regarded as a deeply-iDjured
woman. Her character in that event has been
ripped to rags by moans of a series of false accu-
sations, which gallantry alone should have induced
Sir Charles to refute.
Thus the Seymour (Vic.) Express
“ Colonel Prioe is not a respecter of old age. In
speaking of the Yea Mounted Rifles, he says ’Mr.
B. Bindon is rather too old for a mounted rifleman,
and must revert to infantry.’ It might surprise
the gallant Colonel to learn that Mr. Bindon can
stick on a buck jumper that would scatter half the
gorgeously-attired ‘ staff ’ up amongst the topmost
branches of a two-hundred-foot-gum-tree. In faet
we would lay heavy odds that he is a far better
horseman than Colonel Price himself. But we
forgot. Old age is not appreciated unless running
in double harness with a fat Government salary.”
Price can't be much of a horseman if he thinks
it’s easier to!walk than I .to ride; however, a lot of
the Sydney colonels think that way. When we
are old, we hope to ride.
The Leader (the proprietors whereof per-
sonally adhere to the future Australian religion
—“Presbyterianism tempered by the rate of ex-
change ”)—remarks of the stage of scandalous
bitterness attained by the Melbourne Presbytery
in re the case of Rev. Dods, that “if Christ could
re-appear among the creed-bound professors of
lifeless theological formulas in question, it is
hardly an exaggeration to believe that he could
with difficulty refrain from applying to the re-
verend persecutors of the Soots’ Church and its
ministers the scathing rebuke he once addressed,
in effect, to a supercilious Jewish sect: ‘Woe unto
you Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; ye tithe the
mint, the anise, and‘„the cummin of scholastic meta-
physics and neglect the weightier matters of the
law, judgment, mercy, and faith.’ ”
It may be liberal-minded on the part of
Lord Carington to, as is the report, let it be known
that all sections of the community, from C.M.G.’S
up to butchers and bakers living under their
order vans, are equal in his eyes. But is this a
contribution to sociableness after all ? Is not its
most patent result a more acutely accentuated
difference between classes? In 1809, Governor
Macquarie, of blessed memory, issued an ordin-
ance very much like Lord CariDgton’s goodwill
utterance. He found divisions in the community,
and with a view of healing them made public pro-
clamation that colonists of all classes, convict and
free, would thenceforth stand on an equality in
his eyes. The oonsequences of Governor Mac-
quarie’s ordinance will, in all probability, be those
of Lord Carington’s good-natured inexperience.
Jbhn C. Eno, the advertising fruit-salt-
man, whose wife is “ hung in diamonds,” unsuc-
cessfully aspires to a big soeial position in Canada
—a country which is the place of refuge for Ame-
rican absconders. A Yankee paper politely ob-
serves that “ the best society of Quebec cannot
reasonably complain of the presenoe of Eno. Any
man is good enough in any part of a country that
exists largely for the purpose of affording shelter
to thieves.” In any case, we don’t think Eno
should get any social privileges by reason of his
so-called “ fruit salt,” which, like lots of other
mixtures with similar names, is composed chiefly
of a simple alkali and a simple acid. At sea it
isn’t half as good, in the opinion of thousands, as
the time-honoured and less expensive seldlitz-
powder—one of the advantages whereof is that,
unlike Eno’s nostrum, it contains no sugar to make
you sick and thirsty.
We see that the Prince of Wales, when
asked to give a list of the hundred persons whom
he considered the best authors, declined to furnish
the list, but contented himself with suggesting
that Thackeray ought to be excluded from it.
What a compliment for poor old William Make-
peace is here I Here is the first gentleman of
Europe giving a mere author the royal stamp of
his ignorant displeasure. That the displeasure is
a compliment need not be urged, for family affec-
tion even back to the Georges is a legitimate
element of criticism, and the Prince who will not
return a word for the sword-thrusts of the Thacke-
rays has not the blue blood with which he is
accredited. We should think the bones of
Thackeray would regain their marrow and his
faded lips would come back and smack them-
selves out of satisfaction in that he wrote nothing
that could win the praise of Albert Edward, Prinoe
of Wales.
In noticing the death of Earl Cardwell
we mentioned that it was he who suspended
Governor Eyre, of Jamaica. This reminds us that
a friend of eurs met the deposed Governor a few
years back. He was a patient in a private lunatic
asylum, so it is more than probable that the un-
fortunate man was already partly “gone” when
his eccentricities made such a stir in England.
Eyre occupied his time in the asylum by writing
the “history of his life.” Our friend, at the doc-
tor’s suggestion, expressed a desire to see this in-
teresting volume, and poor Eyre gleefully brought
him about half-a-dozen exercise-books filled with
zig-zag lines—not a single word from beginning
to end. The crazy historian devoted several hours
a day to this work, and would smile over some of
his inkiest lines with all the complacency of a
Macaulay. We presume death has relieved him of
his literary labours long ere this.
An Australian bush cook heir to an earl-
dom:—“A man known as Tom the Cook, in
Bourke, N.S.W., is reported to have come into
possession of the title and estate of the Earl of
Eglinton. He has been supplied with money, and
has gone to Melbourne to see solicitors, who are
sure that he is the right man. He is married and
has been cooking for shearers on Boomery
station.” Thomas, when he gets into his ancestral
halls, will considerably astonish the French chef of
the establishment. Just imagine Roaring Billy,
the station rouseabout, who will probably go
home as the new Earl’s valet, dropping down in
trousers and shirt, and bare feet, to Monsiour
Brillat-Savarin-Soyie, at 5 a.m., with—“l say,
Mister, the boss wants the billy boiled at wanst,
and he says if you can’t make him a damper to
day, he’ll have to run you out on your ear. And
ye’d better put ration-sugar in the old man’s tea
if you’d like to live an hour. Go out and get me
some Barrett’s twist before breakfast.”
Many old Queenslanders will rejoice to
hear that Father M’Guinness is alive and kicking.
If accounts from Kempsey, N.S.W., be correct the
kicking shows splendid fettle and pluck. Smith-
town, his present location, appears to be the ren-
dezvous of Ulster men, Connaught men, Tipperary
men, and Cork men. In such a place hair is bound
to fly. We don’t want to go into nice details at
present writing, as there is under Bishop Torre-
giani’s consideration a report dealing with the
whole business. We have met Father M’Guinness
and liked him. If his shade resemble himself he
will be excellent company in old Charon’s boat.
In the meantime, an extract from a discourse of
his in the Smithtown chapel on March 20, and pub-
lished in the Macleay Argus of the following
Saturday, will revive among the dwellers in the
gullies and prairies westward of Rock ham u ton and
along the shearing sheds on the crooked M’lntyre,
delightful, soul-stirring reminiscences. “On last
Sunday he stated he drove many squatters’ wives
in Queensland through the back blocks. .
” It is sad to think
that a man with such a glorious past should
be bickering with a parcel of wild Irishmen in an
obscure and disreputably-named place like Smith-
town.
When it is known that Henniker Heaton,
who really only speaks for that portion of Aus-
tralian soil which still stands in Henniker Heaton’s
boots, takes upon himself to propose ia the House
of Commons such resolutions as the following, it
will at once be perceived that Henniker Heaton
needs putting down with a strong hand:—“l.
That it is desirable to place the whole naval, mili-
tary, and volunteer forces of her Majesty's colo-
nies under the immediate control of the British
War authorities and the Government of England.
2. That these colonial forces be recognised and
enjoy all the rights and privileges of Imperial
officers and men.” The Imperial officers in the
N.S.W. servioe at present have—and small blame
to them I—very fine care that they are not mis-
taken for the colonial-made amateur article. It
was noticeable at the sham-fight, held at Bydney
last Saturday, in honour of General Fremantle, tin t
she professional Imperial officers present wore blue
puggarees round their helmets as a distinguish-
ing mark. Yet Henniker, with characteristic
modesty, does not propose to consult the colonies
in military matters—not he. He simply hands
them over, willy-nilly, look, stock, and barrel, to
the enlightened rule of that obese Royal owl,
George, Duke of Cambridge, commander-in-chief.
Many Victorians will-remember Foster, the
little dark crooked-eyed detective who was so
prsminent in many celebrated criminal cases a few
years ago. As daylight broke into one of the
medical wards of Melbourne Hospital the other
morning, Foster's remains were carried out to the
dead-house, to await interment in a pauper’s
grave. He had a short time previously been re-
ceived into the institution in the last stages of
consumption, worn to a shadow of his former self,
friendless, penniless, and without even a change of
clothing. To Foster’s skill and care the public
owed the arrest and conviction of Burns, the
blood-stained ruffian who for years had made a
trade of murder, and had sent perhaps half'ft-
dozen confiding men to their last account. It was
soon after the investigations concerting that cruel
monster that Foster retired from the service, and
then followed the sitting of the Police Commission
before which Foster gave evidenca that placed
an impassable barrier between himself and som®
of those who were formerly his comrades. In-
stead of a pension, which he might have obtained,
Foster took compensation, and commenced busi-
ness as a private inquiry agent in Bourke-street
east. But fate was adverse to him; and after ex-
periencing domestio affliction and the anxiety con-
sequent upon an unremunerative business, he
gradually sank, until he became an inmate of a
cheap restaurant, from whence he was conveyed
in a cab one day to Melbourne hospital.
That portly clerio, the Rev. Walter Fel-
lowes—brother of the late Judge Fellows—made
quite a racy speech at a back-scratching political
dinner in Melbourne. Mr. Fellows was, in his
younger days, we fancy, a prominent member of
the Cambridge University eleven, and is still an
enthusiastic admirer of cricket. But wo never
knew till now that the reverend slogger haa
" often attended a racecourse.” He has. Not as a
tract-distributor of the “Handicap to Hell
pattern, but as a genuine follower of the sport.
Once he upset Bishop Moorhouse by telling him
that he had been to the Melbourne Cup and won
£l5OO, " l’he Bishop,” said Mr. F., “loosed a little
astonished till I explained that I had met three
heavy winners and got £5OO from each of them for
the cathedral.” Wnether the Bishop patted him
on the back and said: “ Well done, thou good atu
faithful servant,” Mr. Fellows omitted to m e £'
tion; but it seems to us that if the public are to he
“tapped” in this wily fashion, Mr. F. might as
well make a book for the Loard straight out, am*
devote the profits to Christianising the


Guinea natives. No matter, we are really pleased
to find that there is such a close connection be-
tween the turf and the Kingdom of Heaven as
aoDears from the champagne disclosures of this
•Holly good Fellows.” One of his theories,
though, is altogether too advanced. He says that
clorgymen should be admitted to Parliament.
Such an idea is monstrous. A parson may attend
a race-meeting and still keep pure. As an M.L.A,
the Golden Gate would be closed against him for
ever.
Essie Jenyns has so captivated the im-
pressionable Hobartians, that her benefit had to
be extended over two nights—an honour con-
ferred but once before in Tasmania—on Mrs.
Scott-Siddons. The youthful Essie received a
handsome assortment of jewellery on this occa-
sion, and Bingham Crowther-a bachelor medico-
was particularly conspicuous in the presentation
of the same.
Adolphus was poor, Angelina was rich, and
her pa was a sort of cross between a grizzly bear
and a black nor’easter. Nevertheless, Adolphus
bailed the old Tartar up, and observed— I would
respectfully ask your daughters hand in
marriage.” Rich Pa (nearly choked with rage):
“ Wh-wh-what I You want to marry my dottah ?
To which Adolphus, in an evident state of terrible
alarm, replied, “ Y-y-yes, sir. Wh-why not ? You
don’t kDow anything against her character, do
you ? ” The service at the grave was of the most
unostentatious character.
HIS LATEST ALLY.
PABKES (loa) to nigger Calvinist: “HERE, MY FRIEND, TAKE THIS. I HAVE HAD
PEOPLE TO HELP ME ERE NOW WHO WERE NO BETTER THAN YOU. ASK
JOHN DAVIES.”
Every member of the British aristocracy
isn’t giddy. There are honourable, even painful,
exceptions. The Countess of Aberdeen, par
exemple, is anxious to relieve the monotony of the
lives of Scotch servants. Now we, in our inno-
cence, should have recommended young footmen
for the parlourmaids, and pretty parlourmaids for
the footmen, with plenty of beef and beer for all,
as excellent reliefs from monotony. But the
worthy Countess has a little scheme of her own.
She proposes an organisation for the purpose of
supplying kitchens with a series of examination
papers on history, geography, biblical study, &c.
Shade of Sam Weller I Fancy Mary Jane and
Chawles relieving the monotony of their lives
with biblical study I Or the cook and the scullery-
help sitting up all night with the map of Europe.
Or the butler makiDg merry over the reign of
Bloody Mary. Oh I carry us out.
“The correct expression of the figure at
present,” says a home paper, “is a martial bearing
on the street, and a statuesque pose at home. The
English girl now wears close-trailing dresses in
the drawing-room, stands around a good deal
against portiers, cultivates a long-armed, languid
sweep of her fan, and affects a slow, satirical
smile.” These facts will be interesting to Austra-
lian ladies, especially those who study the fashion-
able intelligence and wish to be abreast of the
times. Taking the smile in the first place, we are
informed on good authority that it is very slow
indeed; and in the very best society a period of
15 minutes generally elapses between the
moment when the first sarcastic convulsion rends
the fair face of Britannia’s daughter and the date
when the yawning cavity closes and the girl of
the period is again at rest. The sweep of the fan
may be passed without further notice, for any
Australian lady can acquire this knack in the
mosquito season; but the English lady’s habit of
standing round and leaning against portfers is
worthy of comment .lPortier, we may mention, isn’t
French for porter. As there are not many
porters in Sydney, our young ladies can
practise, if they like, by leaning up against
policemen whioh will do equally well. The
statuesque pose may be difficult to acquire
at first, but as many statues are very limp
and gone about the vertebrae there is a wide field
for selection. Even a lady without arms and legs
can find an old Greek image of some kind to meet
her oase, and all she has to do is to look as like it
as possible. A large proportion of statues are
hopelessly dirty, but it is not necessary to carry
the resemblanca so far as that. The English girl
of the period does not speak much; she does not
smoke or drink or chew tobacco; and though she
is too elegant to be kissable or huggable she is not
actively obnoxious. But that smile of hers is
fearful in its intensity, and descends upon an
aspiring young gentleman like an Alpine landslip.
If a would-be Romeo calls on her just as the basi-
lisk cacchination is getting through its introduc-
tory chapter he generally flies about the middle of
the performance, leaving his inamorata with the
coral lips still open; and then, perhaps, some other
unfortunate oomes in, and beneath the balance of
the sardonic grin he sinks into hopeless insignifi-
cance and abasement.
THE SLEEPING SERVANT,
Acros3 the ice-chest freighted air
Doth chilly morning creep,
And the much-married business man
Stirs vaguely in his sleep;;
lhen, in a scanty robe de nuit,
He flits through barren halls,
And in an under zero voice
The servant maiden caiis.
Once more between the half-Ghilled sheets
The flitter snugly lies,
And on 0 a.m. atmosphere
Melodious snores arise.
The dock strikes 81 The sleeper starts,
With groans of anxious pain—
Then flits once more through Arctic halls
And calls that girl again.
I prefer Wolfe’s Schnapps to Brandy or Whisky
—lt is a more wholesome spirit.
EVERY LADY SHOULD READ THIS.
Summerfleld's Jersey Suits
Summerfleld’s School Suits
Summerfleld's Sailor Buits
Summerfleld’s Worsted Suits ..
Summerfleld’s Little Ulsters ...
Summerfleld’s Wee Overcoats...
Summerfleld's Trouser Suits ...
Summerfleld's Youths’ Overcoats
.. 2/11 7/6
.. 7/6 8/11
...10/6 15/6
... 10/6 13/6
.. 4/11 7/6
... 6/11 8/11
.. 18/6 21/-
.. li/6 16/9
Summerpield and Company, Merchant Tailors
and Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Country residents promptly sup-
plied with fashion plates, &o.*
A genuine source of health—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU ARE 81 OK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’„
HOI FITTERS
are a sovereig n rem ' l dy in all such com-
plaints.
If you ar wasting "'way with any
form of Ki' ney Disease, Jtop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTER^.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American,HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rieh
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will yon let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
0T See If the name of Dr. oule 1 s blown
In every bottle, If not It 1s counterfeit.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. CHARLEJIOAT et CIE.,
HAVE the honour to announce that their
Studios for High-class Photography are now
open in the Royal Arcade.
Messrs. C. & Co. have engaged an efficient staff
of Artists for all branches in art work of photo-
graphy, some of whom have been trained in the
leading European establishments.
Mr. Thomas C. Cleave (who has had the dis-
tinguished honour of photographing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H.S the
Prince and Princess of Wales, many members of
the Royal Family, also the Prince Imperial and
other notables) will personally superintend the
studio work.
Our portraiture, we venture to say, is Artistic
and Excellent, and we invite inspection of our
work exhibited iu the Vestibule, leading to our
Studios.
CHARLEMONT et CIE.
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
UIiSMiLIB
STUDY ECONOMY
and
i Save your Umbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
‘Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
• 541 George Street,
> Brickfield Hill, between
I Liverpool and Bathurst St*,
Parasol* made to match cos-
tumes. KesaJra neatly eye-
mt*#V
Se
ex
LIMITED,
356 George-stroot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING &Cq,
356 George-street, Sydney.
THE NEW FURNITURE
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
Joses, Lawson Bns., I Co.,
Cabinet Makers & Upholsterers ,
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
cash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &0.,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
POME BOT-CHAMBBBS,
CASTLEREAGH-STRE ET,
Near Hunter-street.
E
VERYBODY 1
SHOULD USB f
FEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERT LOW, and the QUALITY
is QUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI Georre-street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CZLEBBATED
BISCUITS AND CASES, TREACLE AID GOLDEN STRIP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, ’ Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
Mf FOE supeeioeity oe quality and excellence.
B. & A. have obtained First Awards all over tbe world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. ARIELL A CO., 843 and 840 Kent-streat.


Lewis O’Neil was hanged at Jacksonville,
Oregon, last month, for a brutal murder. There
was nothing extraordinary in that, but there was
in the almost unparalleled request the murderer
made to his brother, an old man of <3. The con-
demned criminal a few days before the execution
wrote to his brother at Grave Creek requesting
that he come and suffer the death penalty as a
substitute. He (the brother) being quite old, he
said, it would not be so hard on him, and it would
allow O’Neil the privilege of caring for his family
of six children, now residing in California. Since
the receipt of the letter, O’Neil, of Grave Creek,
has died, according to a local paper, from sheer
astonishment at his brother’s cheek.
The telling sneer thrown by the Pall
Mall at the “ high-toned ” London dailies fits also
the “leading” journals of Australia:— The
squeamishness of our contemporaries concerning
the purity of their sheets does not extend to the
publication of reports of divorce oases, as has fre-
quently been remarked. In this morning 8 Papm:
the Chronicle devotes six and a quarter columns
to the report of the Crawford-Dilke case, the
Daily News follows with six, the Daily Tele-
graph and the Morning Advertiser come next
with five and a half, then the Standard with live,
then the Morning Post with four, and the Times
brings up the rear with three and a half, ine
necessity for preserving the family from disgust-
ing details evidently exists only when their publi-
cation is intended to serve a moral purpose.
Poor Mulcahy, who with Ashton, were the
ill-fated members of Stock dale’s exploring party,
and died in the West Australian wilderness, was
well known in Sydney. He was for some time
employed as a surveyor under the Harbours ana
lUvers Department, but he was Perhaps most pro-
minent as a member of the Redf ern Football Club,
in whose contests a few seasons ago he was a lead-
ing figure. His tall and muscular form and tre-
mendous arms were always to be seen in the thick
of every scrimmage. Big as he was, he was still
kind and gentle to all, and especially to smaller
and weaker men in the football field ; no little
THE LATE MR. PATRICK MULCAHY.
opponent ever had to complain of rough usage
from “ Paddy Mulcahy.” He was ever more
considerate for others than for himself, and if
he stayed behind in the wild back country to look
after the weaker Ashton he did only what would
have been expected of him by his old comrades.
The statement that he used opium having been
extensively sworn to, cannot, of course, be contro-
verted here; but, so far as the lost man’s Sydney
career is concerned, one might just as well accuse
Beach of such a practice. Poor Paddy, wherever
he died, he died last, and he died bravely. Peaoe to
the ashes of Paddy Mulcahy 1
Wolfe's Schnapps tranquilizes the nervous
system.
Denominational school teacher : “ Which
is the longest day in the year?” Small hoy:
“ Sunday.”
Don’t be fooled into taking any other but
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Beneath Is a representation of that convenient
article, The “ Mistress ” Stove, and as it appears in
full working order, and on a way to show its
wonderful efficiency and adaptability to every
kind of cookiDg, some idea may be formed of the
reason of its great popularity. We need say
nothing further touching the grand qualifications
of this capital Stove, but simply ask attention to
our prices which are considerably lower than
Those Down Town.
THE “ MISTRESS ” STOVE.
No. 26. 27, 28.
Plain, 60/- 70/- 80/-
No. 6,7, 8.
With boiler, 100/- 112/6 130/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
rfIHBATRB ROYAL.
A Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson. Garnhb and Musgrovi.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
SIXTH WEEK of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUSGKOVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY. APRIL 15,
at a quarter to 8 precisely,
FIFTH REPRESENTATION IN AUSTRALIA
of the thrilling sensational drama, in six acts,
written by PAUL MERRITT (part author of “ The
World,” “ New Babylon,” &c.) and GEORGE
CONQUEST, entitled
THE CRIMES OF PARIS.
Admission: Dress Circle.6s.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Cirole, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
28Sh WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
AN ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
EVERYBODY DELIGHTED.
FUN, FAST and FURIOUS.
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
EVERY EVENING until further notice, will be
produced the Farcial Comedy, in three acts,
THE GREAT PINK PEARL.
Manager for Mr. Dampier —FRED, GUNTHER.
IHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC
Georg e-street, Hayniarket.
HALL.
T _
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTKLSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Pricest Orchestra chairs, 3sj stalls, Is;
balcony, is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7 o’clook.
» GAD H M Y OF MUSIC.
Bole Proprietor and Manager .. F.B.Hiscocks.
SECOND WEEK of the THIRD YEAR.
And still the popular and Fashionable Resort.
Once again we reoord another Great Hit of the
Premier Company par excellence,
HIBOOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
Our New X^%3XIrROPH ? .
Fridav Evening— Complimentary Benefit to
Mr. SAM. KEENAN.
-WTICTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
* GRENFELL’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Speolal Engagement of the Eminent Actor,
Mr. W. H. LEAKE,
supported by a powerful Dramatic Company, in"
eluding the following acknowledged Artists ;
Miss Ethel Adele
Miss Bessie Vivian
Miss Hettie Lambrette
Miss Josie Turnbull
Mr. 8. Stanley
Mr. C. F. Searle
Mr. F. C. Appleton
Mr. Roy Grenfell
Mr. J. J. Hasker
Mr. Sam. Poole
Mr. A. Maitland
Mr. C. Edwards
Mr. Frank Fowler.
Commencing
SATURDAY 24th APRIL.
THREE GUARDSMEN.
En route for Brisbane.
OPENING NIGHT, MAY 10th.
Leader of Orchestra - Mr. Frank Fowler.
Advance Agent .. .. Mr. C. F. Searle.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR.
Grenfell—Thursday and Friday, April 15. and 16
Cowra—Saturday and Wednesday, April 17 and 21
Carcoar—Monday and Tuesday, April 19 and 20
Young—Thurs., Sat., Monday, April 22, 34, 26
Temora, Cootamundra, Gundagai, Adelong,
Tumut, Junee, Wagga, &e., to follow.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &0., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &c.
The only house in Sydney-
that makes a Speciality of
Musical Instruments.
Violins, Guitars, Banjos, Futes, Accordions, Con-
certinas, and Btricg3 for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
POGONOW SKI’S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
705 George-atrcet, Sydney.
TEE “ME” SUETS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
G-entlemen’s Shirts
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. OEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory
.. WAVERLEY,
J STANLEY, Concertina Doctor,
• Bathurst, Importer of Musical
Instruments and Fittings of every
description, Anglos for hot climates,
Extra Loud Steel for dancing, with
levers screwed down. Price lists post
free. 30 per cent, under Sydney rates.
gsd
[ Testimonial.]
“ Mitchell, August 10, 1885.
“ The concertina you did up for me
is in splendid order. I am much
pleased with it. I will get you all the
custom I can out here, as I consider
anyone buying eff you saves ss. in
the pound, besides getting a superior
article.
‘Daniel Green.
[Testimonial.]
“ Parkes, January 31, 1886.
“Received the concertina (made to order) quite
safe. It is the best in this town. The'only thing I
don’t like is that all the girls are falling in love
with it instead of me. It is a credit to you, and
the more I play it the more I like it and the better
it seems to get. No one would buy rubbish that
ever saw one of ycur concertinas.
“James A. Pender.’’
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street, Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
mm.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
• and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
rt
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIR EMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONB,
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
OKGS-Axrs !
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE
“SMITH.”
BRUCE at MASSEY,
US, ORGANS, MUSIC
197 Piit-st, Sydney.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast"'
_ . . , , Luncheon, or Supper;" and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
__ __ . «niixtures, a teaspoonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break,
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6d., 3s, ss. 6 d., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHWEITZER & CO., 10 ADAM-BTREBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WINE.
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WI&E
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
6iven perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office. *
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant A Importer f
George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket. Sydney.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
R. C. ME SSI TER,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
and MEN' a MERCER,
Supplies Clothing which, for quality, make, and
price, cannot be surpassed in Sydney.
Quality of Goods in Mercery Department
without equal.
Your patronage repectfully solicited.
255 PITT STREET.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
0& v
* Adi es ft
IhautiWay
ft SONS
BOSTOJi
BOSTON, 1869.
VIENNA, 1873.
FHILA., 187©.
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to be
“THE STANDARD.”
C. L. H AUTHAWAY&SOKSS,
231 & 233 Congress Street, Boston.
MASS., U.B.A.
Department of Publio Worts,
Sydney, April 13,1816.
TBNDERf? for PUBLIC WOBKB and SUP-
FLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when tt e tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will bo announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
KatuM of Works and Supplies
Construction of Four' Sets of I
Wrought and Cist Iron Crlin-|
ders for crane foundations,
Newcastla <
Construction of Wharf at Bil- I
ranald
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Oflice, Waverlty I
Erect on of Cottage. Hospital I
for the Insane, Giadesville |
Additior s to Bathing-house,
Hoep tal for the Insane, Par- j
ramatta
Riveting and Erection of nine
Wrought Iron Aqueducts,
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of lighthouse and
Ligktkeepers Cottage, Kiaraa
Additions to New Police Quar-
ters, Cudal
Supply of Prisoners’ Dock, &c..
Courthouse, Tar alga
Cutting Grass od Embankments,
&e., Main Southern Sewer
Erection of Stationmaster's
House, &0,, at OraDge
Erection of a Railway Station
at Macdonaldtown
Construction of 130-ton Iron
Stopper Barge—Dredge Ser-
vice
Repairs, &c., Courthoi s?, Coota-
mutidra
Supply and Peiivery in New-
castle of Pipes, tor Waler
Supply Reticulation, Hunter
River Bistiict.
Dates to wbioh
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Tuesday,
A pril 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesdar,
April ST,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
May 4,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
May U,
at 11 o’cH-ck.
Tuesday,
May 18,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
May 35,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T da 1TR« ROTAL-“ Crimes of Paris ” n.
Gaiety Theatre- 41 The Great Pink Pearl ”
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce ”
Academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels ”
There was the usual crowded attendance
K °y al 011 Saturday night,
M ? e ! st , h V irst Presentation in Australia of
if®" 1 ” and Conquest’s new sensational drama,
The Crimes of Pans.” The plot is comp'ex; the
ar i tlin ?t Th ® Principal character is a
viaL Ni ? 0 i e ’ otherwise the Demon, otherwise
the Yiscomte de Vismes. This man literally lives
oo hls knife. He makes a little money by forgery
a o d fictitious marriages, but for the solid part of
his fortune he relies upon cutting throats.
• • 9
The play is altogether too long. It begins
at a quarter to 8, and keeps at it till after 11.
lhere are six acts and about a dozen scenes. It
is true, that there are some middling public-
house8 near ’ but • one gets tired ffoing down and
climbing up stairs so often. Besides that, next
morning at breakfast, you feel that the night air, or
something has interfered with your appetite. That
day. T , ne shy is darker and the earth
colder, while one’s appetite i3 bad. Everything
8 ®?™ 8 hollow except the promises in the cate-
chism. There should not, therefore, be so many
acts, or some or them shouid be doubled over on
to the next night. Hard as is the alternative of
f 8ta: u? £ r , adt . tiD » 8tin the whole time, the
+hf£?o i to which ladies appear to have subjected
18 worse., They have no alternative,
i hey sit there all the time. Occasionally a modest
couple are seen going out, and at the close of the
interval returning with handkerchiefs on mouths
That, however, is recognised as the initial stage of
the honeymoon. A characteristic of this stage is
intense restlessness or intense immobility. As an
instance of immobility, there was, not iong ago, a
beatified couple in the middle of the front tier of
the circle. He was fully 55 and she was under 17.
I 14 * 1 ®™ ot a erey whisker down his
h 3 ,d * a PP ar e a tly. abused herself
in manufacturing for him this set-out of hirsute
furniture, for he had not an inch of jbeard or
moustache. His face was very small and very
hard, but transcendency modest. He was not a
miser, but must hav@ spoilt his life slaving 1 for
may bave , been a selector who
had got his deeds, or a grazier who had got rid of
a mortgage. His relation to the atmosphere was
one of tightne s of skin and holding back. He
had on a high collar coming above his ears, a white
silk tie, white cotton gloves, and a black suit.
His wife was small, compact-, and “made.” She
owned the tiniest specks of black eyes. She had a
little nose with a polished top on it, like the first
joint of a baby s little finger. Her mouth wa«
such a thing as one might make with one stab of
the blade of a small ivory-handled pocket-knife.
She wore a white dress with bridal flowers in
front, yellow cotton gloves, and a round bracelet.
They sat there, expressionless, motionless, hands
resting on knees, eyes cast down. Thev killed one
another on the stage, but neither he nor she
noticed. The audience applauded and groaned,
but neither he nor she heard. He knew he was
beside her, and that was Paradise. She knew The
was beside him, and that was Paradise. If the
play lasted three hours it was nothing to them.
■ s a
But, making allowance for the restless
section and the immobile section, the fact remains
that a six-aot play has too many intervals. Apart
the matter of stairs, ladies must
find it highly uncomfortable. They are left there
?hoaL n0!V a ?A?£ a *“ wlth nothing before them on
iSwfJS* 6 : • Ji hls 181( 2 g0 on > we suggest that the
f am ' able > and accomplished Goodman
hfi?wi d i et n? n U f P a f ? 1 h ?V r at the intermissions, set it
®®tween the footlights and the screen, recline
upon it with that grace and ease for which he has
a metropolitan reputation, and smile with his
wonted sweetness from one to the other of the
i a -?£? ld a P d Ian guishing martyrs of an insane and
cruel custom. That would be turning an interval
of torture into an interval of ecstasy.
* * *
Quitting the question of length, however,
the Crimes of Paris ” is a great play-great in
power and in manner of presentation. The scenic
splendour of the Gardens of Belleville engage the
eye as the murderer’s revelation of himself to the
widow Nicole as her son engages the mind. The
}v a y uught also be called great in purpose, only
that the purpose is so conventional. It shows the
evil end that awaits all evil courses.
• e •
Sometime we shall get a play in which the
wlU 80 awayjtriumphant. Why not? Is not
itself ? & % hloh th ® world passes
itself? Why was it binding on Merritt and Con-
quest to have the throat of old Pierre Belport,
the usurer, cut from left to right, and his wizened
body cast into the turbid Seine ? He lent money,
rrmins in . tere8ts > be cozened over bonds, he
VVfiH f d hiJ? e t aces those he got in his power,
well then, why not make of him a member of the
Legislature ? Why not exhibit him in a palatial
locai fashion, and with
Whv lighting up joyously at his smile?
wh£ o * 0 !. ma J^ hlm a P illar of the church, at
Two table bl8h °P 8 would delight to sit, and in
dumh% Pre w? C0 °V rate? ? would be deferentially
v y by not make his last years patri-
starsalnf v a P+£ y ’?? d bi 8 dea tbbed one on which the
fimoLof l di . th 8hine brightly ? Why not have his
d?vinA n°pK tl , 0a P reac bed by the most eloquent
in* d!™t tb . e L and i and columns of obituary mourn-
That » d irh P> im v. in * t P e Icadlner newspaper ?
thmi 8lfe ’, That 8 what shouid be glassed. What,
thi wTL a8k ' 8x ® ep t a sorry combination, forced
thf« 6 s of the Crimes of Paris” to make
an 8 -nV 8 Fj OU8 scoundrelly Belport end up, un-
SwSiA by K the church, unbelauded by the Press,
SSTSt by beauty, unfawned upon by rank—out-
fraotml°°r?ed ’ revi i ed - biased, with his throat cut
eeM f,f t ?w r ’p a derelict abandoned to the slimy
What l f Q the Parisian Mother of Dead Does?
sham J / epeat * but the sorry, hollow, pitiful
am of a deceased and diseasing conventionalism?
* » *
Phiiim P D er^ ormers did their P arts well. Mr.
lain 1 ;? “fob. Who takes the role of the leading vil-
fition tn thf C 4 mt j- e £ e Vi8me8 > is a decided acqui-
Powerfni His voice is neither
character ° or 8w ? fct - but it suits well such a
KenmikL, a .? J 5 ® had to represent. Miss Myra
way\hat°mna d wel1, a ? d spoke her few words in a
corn nan w i? ade mor ® desirable. The rest of the
tgWS&ESf UP to its old form, Mr. Vincent get-
reafistio mfit® rather painful dut y with much
4K 4t 4t
The romantic story of the “Bohemian
House TnV? ric , ally told at the Sydney Opera
Posed v«/ a ur i ay night to a full house, com-
iarve “uch of men of whom a noticeably
from Horar^ ta n e +v ad * been (to borrow a wheeze
lasting mf? 00 B ® nt ) stood wrong way up, to the
of thelr hair when m early-and
m aternafa?^?i, bbey m ad been subjected to the
a decided aU through, there was
c amp sceno^n+h 8p r bil i the P iece - although in the
of firs the second act there was abundance
d f a “ a tic description. Miss
which she 6 ma d 1° be playing under disadvantages
Graoie’g]® d , ld her leveI best to coaceal, and
ten-room nuL* 68 ?* w® may remind you, is of the
gas and’Ji 1 ? 8 ® station, rates and taxes paid,
throughoJt a f^L la d r<- 0n ’ and thoroughly fitted
that shfinn^K 01 / Lt was with an evident effort
Whence did°ia? d u p *0 her highest notes, but
these peak<win a ih 8 her8elf > 8h ® took a lorg lease of
to score mi 0 i?J**l range °l nielody, and managed
beviishoof 1 tba u 8ua i number of encores.
heecrinUon a 8UCGess of the strictly limited
hut his vn^ani 8 fuake-np was quite comma il taut,
and his on was distressingly unreliable,
that the tron™™ 8 8 ? oh 88 to make us regret
Jhe stats in whose muskets pointed to half
j?hn, did firmament when they “ covered ”
first act d D Rv ?triko him dramatically dead in the
poral in th ° r ® ia a strong Scriptural
hu crowd »ri‘ rst Bt lh' f° r ft is while the Count and
° wdare Paying that Devilahoof clears with
the infant Arline, and this part of the business
must be intended to show that men should not
only pray, but watch as well. Now, Mr. Barnier,
just toe the mark, please, and tell us whether the
stage does not go hand-in-hand with the ohuich in
the work of inculcating moral principles.
* * *
There is one thing we always notice with
much approbation about Mr. Templeton, and that
is the completeness of his make-up. Most actors
can be recognised directly they face the footlights,
but Mr. Templeton may be any one until he sings.
With his cleverness in this line he could travel all
through Queensland as a priest or an editor, and
no one would ever suspect him until he refused to
imbibe the flrejuice of the country. The gipsies
did not take our fancy to a great extent; we could
pick up a better-looking lot in the Domain any
day. Mind you, we don’t say that they would sing
better, or be cleaner, or less thirsty, but they
would not look so desperately like barbers’
clerks and linen-drapers on the loose. These
scornful remarks, of course, apply only to the
men. If we knew any tribe of gipsies whose
maidens were as universally beautiful and
beefy, as the girl-part of the chorus, we would
rather become a gipsy than remain in civilisa-
tion and write posters for a brewer. But
we doubt whether as lovely a tribe could be found
anywhere nearer than Woolloomooloo. l’haddeus,
Mr. Charles Harding (you notice that we are
writing tbis in a promiscuous style characteristic
of our genius) who is about as necessary to the show
as bigotry to an Orange lodge, or cake to a Sunday-
school picnic, glitters with even more reful-
gence than in any role he has undertaken during
the present season, and is responsible for an im-
mense amount of wear and tear to the enduring
bluchers of the sitters in the stalls. Buda, Sophie
Harris, is the neglectful nursemaid. She only ap-
pears in the first act, from which the audience are
led to believe that she catches a violent cold from
wearing insufficient clothing and dies during the
interval. Miss Lambert was a gorgeous Queen of
the Gipsies with enough colour on her face to act
as a danger-signal on the railways. A feature in
the entertainment (we crib this from all the even-
ing papers) was the orchestra under the able con-
ductorship of Mr. Luscombe Searelle.
* * * *
A slight alteration in the personnel of the
Sydney Olympic Victual Spark Company has
taken place during the week, and the result is
necessarily an improvement. We don’t mean by
this that any alteration would be for the better,
but simply that the enterprise of the management
is such as to ensure improvement whenever such
can possibly be effected. There is still a wide
field for their reformatory energies, as we do not
doubt that it is their sincere desire to bring
the singing up to the level of the “swankey.”
By the way, how strange it is that very frequently
some peculiar look, feature, or motion of a person
reminds one of something totally different, or even
of something or someone one has seen before, yet
so long ago that the vision seems to be of another
world different in all its circumstances yet some-
what akin in construction to this. There is a
species of unconscious mnemonics which is apt
to puzzle us muchly at times. Sam. Keenan’s
mouth, for instance, always reminds us in some
unaccountable way of the Fish River Caves, and
: here at the Olympic Miss Lettie Le Vine (who
would do really well if she were not so over-
whelmed with melancholy) reminds us somewhere
of something that has attracted us in bygone
years. It is not her hose, they merely remind us
or a fire brigade, or a Salvation Army shirt-depot.
I Possibly it is that her voice reminds us of Patti,
and as that explanation is complimentary to the
t diva (we don’t say which, mind) we will leave it at
that. Miss Montagu sings several songs, which
j are not absolutely new, in a moderately taking
manner, and does some nigger business which is
l alleged to be a “speciality.” We hope that it is,
' and that she has patented it—it would be a pity to
i let anyone else get hold of it. Tne orchestra,
I under the able leadership of Mr. Schiedel (we
quote an evening paper) contributed to the plea-
sure of the audience.
« * * #
“Refinement without Vulgarity” (they
ought to copyright this phrase) continues to make
Sydney Alhambra as attractive as a free-lunoh
bar, and, we should fancy, as profitable as a billet
in the Lands Office. It is not that the business
there is so exquisitely ©lassie or superlatively
scientific, but it is just about the kind to suit the
kind of people who litre it, and they troop round
there accordingly. The major part of the busi-
ness is of a hilarious order, and under its beneficent
influence we are able to forget that “ bread is
riz, that the ad valorems will make other things
do ditto, and that Dan. O’Connor is said to be pre-
paring one more oration. There is much delight
in the Alhambra, and the orchestra, under the
able directorship of Mr. Charles Austin, contri-
butes greatly to the enjoyment of the perform-
ance. Which latter piece of information we crib
from the Sydney evening papers.
* # * *
“The Great Pink Pearl ” is so profitable to
the management of the Sydney Gaiety that we
wonder they have thought it worth while to an-
nounce anything else “ in preparation." There is
such noveitv of conception about the plan of the
piece that that goes a long way to making it boom.
The mere act of making a bailiff the vehicle of
such abundant hilarity is a revelation of itself, for
bailiffs are not usually the ministers of mirth, and
the idea of making a journalist appear as the
lender of five millions, must have been an inspira-
tion of itself to the authors. For journalists, let
us tell you, are not usually built that way.
* * t
Of the characters, Mr. Dampier hardly
improves as the piece progresses, for his present
quaking, knee-clattering attitude is sufficient of
itself to bring mountains of suspicion to the
parties with whom he deals as to his bona tides.
Otherwise he is well fitted with his business. Harry
LestoD, on the contrary, improves, and by this
performance has shown himself about five steps
higher on the ladder of fame than he previously
stood. Lilliearp is a careful study, and is faithful
without beiDg Stark—we mean stiff, or unnatural.
Alfred Boothman has not much to do besides
indulge in a series of prolonged grunts, but he
make3 them indicate tne tenderest pathos, the
deepest decision, and the highest humour. He
wears an elongated moustache, a fact which of
itself testifies to his willingness to immolate him-
self on the altar of dramatic exigencies. We
thought his natural labial hirsute appendage (neat
this, moustache, you know) was sufficiently lengthy
to use as a waist-belt, but it seems not to have I
been long enough for Count Keromine.
* * *
We can say nothing more about the
Pearl, except to join with the evening papers in
stating that the efforts of the orchestra, under the
able directorship of Professor Miller, contribute
greatly to the enjoyment of the audiences.
* * * *
Business at Sydney Academy of Music is
not so good as it should be, but a good deal better
than it might. Lance Lenton has wisely aban-
doned his former specialties and gone for
something which is slightly more exhilarating.
Horace Bent, whose varieties are always charming
as variety should be. helps the show along con-
siderably, and Sam. Keenan and Warner contrive
to make art, of a kind, the cause of hilarity. But
there are other parts of the programme that are
quite ripe for revolution. We have once or twico
hinted that the piffero performance was not quite
so new or charming in our eyes as a last week’s
News, or a last year’s baby, and now would “ urge
with submission,” as the lawyers say, that songs of
the “Mountebank” and “Jack’s Yarn ” order,
though excellent in themselves, are now justaoout
due for relegation to charitable amateur vocalists
who sing at asylums and such places when people
cannot get a reasonable excuse forescape. Mr.
Dunbar fetches the whole house with these and
other songs, but this is merely a tribute to his own
talent and skill. It he were to sing the Old Hun-
dredth or the National Anthem people would
applaud just the same. Beaumont Read, too,
makes a bit of a dive into immediate antiquity to
fetch up “Only a Pansy Blossom.” This is a sweet
little b-liad and suits his voice all to smash, but if
he really wanted something 1 new he might have
clutched on to “ Silver Threads among the Gold,”
which was very popular incead a ooupie of de-
cades ago. An alleged “sketch” called “Cat-
astrophe sends the audience away as happy as a
lot of undertakers trooping out to the annual
picnic, and (we quote from the Sydney papers)
“the orchestra under the able directorship of
Nick la Feuillade playj some admirable selections
during the intervals.”
* * * *
Alice Rees (Madame Vogrich) is much
liked in’Frisco. Says the NEWSLEirER,:— “In her
present stage, Miss Sees may be termed an ad-
mirable ballad-singer. The tones of her voice
have the quality that speaks to the hearts of
listeners. It is possible that with the careful
study which was not possible in Australia her
voice will acquire the flexibility which is neces-
sary for coloratura singing. She certainly could
not be under better guidance than that of her
artist husband.”
* * * #
Messrs. Leake and Grenfell are due at 1
Newcastle, N.S.W., on the tilth with their com-
pany, which is to play there during the Easter
forttl to conquer Queens-
land. Ethel Adele, Bessie Vivian, and Miss Lam-
brett represent the angelic half of humanity in the
Strange that we only just found it
out. We often used to wonder why it was that
travelling companies always made a point of tak-
mg at least one pretty girl with them. We know
why it is now: they take her to bewitch the coun-
ty newspaper offices. This, mind you, is apropos
OX QOtiQiO£p«
» * * »
Mr. Stuart Cumberland, the “thought-
reader, runs our old friend Vincent Crummies
close in wily advertisement. Before giving his
first seance in the Melbourne Town Hail, letters
opportunely appeared ia the papers expressing
courteous doubt as to Mr. Cumberland’s marvel-
these Mr. C. condescendingly
\ l* 1 ? response to numberless requests,
c li- that h8 would have the pleasure of dis-
pelling scepticism at the Town Hall (under the
patronage of his Excellency—front seats, 5a.).
Then a learned leader upon thought-readers in
general, and Mr. Stuart Cumberland in particular,
+>P p^are<1 p in tt* e Age. Then Mr. C. wrote to thank
tne age for its “ interesting article.” Meanwhile,
pars, spiced with anecdotes of kings and princes
w< iF e .j af L P^ eQ tiful as blackberries. Attention was
called to a dagger (given to Mr. C. by a grand
duke at the close of some blood-curdling experi-
then being exhibited in a Collins-street
window. The public flocked to see that dagger,
and were further enchanted by a series of little
sketches, depicting “Mr. C. doing something or
another to the Earneror of Germany,” Mr. C.
flabbergasting the Grand Old Man,” “ Mr. C. as he
appeared when the Prince of Wales said “thank
you very much for a most delightful seance,’ ” and
so on. Under the circumstances it is not surpris-
ing that this very practical protege of crowned
heads is exercising his mysterious arts with proiit-
Bble results. We shall have him in Sydney soon,
and when he comes please look carefully in the
correspondence columns of S.M. Herald and D.T.
borne Seeker after Truth ” will certainly be ex-
pressing an earnest hope that Mr. Cumberland will
not tear himself away from the city before giving
some exhibition of those wonderful powers which
have excited so much discussion throughout the
civilised world, &c. Touching little stories about
finding pins in the Czar’s boot will follow as re-
quired. But we must be patient. Mr. Cumberland
has scarcely finished with Melbourne. Melbourne
is a mine of wealth for any man who has rubbed
against royalty.
Our old friend Edward Farley’s Maseotte
Opera Company seems to be doing magnificent
business in China, particularly with “Carmen”
and Faust.’ The cultured critic at Shanghai
quotes the Italian titles of the various numbers,
because he is “not sufficiently familiar with the
English libretto.' We extend the hand of brother-
hood to him, for we feel -it is a happy thing
that such genius is located at—Shanghai. The
Mascottes” are working South, and will tem-
porarily deposit their plunder and genius in Sydney
about August next.
* * # *
Mr. F. B. Chatterton, once a very pro-
minent figure in the English theatrical world, died
a few weeks back. For several years Mr. Chat-
terton ran Drury Lane Theatre, and earned there-
putation of being 1 the only man in London who
had found money in the big house. Renouncing
Shakespeare as “spelling ruin” (which it did 15
years ago in London), Chatterton made “Old
Drury ” the home of spectacular drama of the
Amy Robsart ” pattern, and might have died in
clover if, in an evil moment, he hadn’t joined the
late Benjamin Webster in managing the Adelpni
and Princess’s Theatres. At the two latter houses
he lost the money he was making at Drury Lane,
and finally went irretrievably to smath. A good
many Australian favourites have served under
the banner of poor Chatterton. He gave Mr. and
Mrs. Williamson their first London engagement at
the Adelphi some 10 years ago or more. J. K Em-
mett, too, appeared at the same house, and Barry
Sullivan nas not “ starred” in the great metropolis
since he spelt some ruin for the then tottering
Chatterton by playing Kicbard III. at Drury Lane.
It used to be the fashion to say that Chatterton,
by catering for the masses, lowered the tone of
the English representative theatre. Hi8 standard,
anyway, was a good deal higher than that of Mr.
Augustus Harris, the present lessee, who has made
a pile out of the “ World,” and kindred enormities.
By the way, Mr. C. was only in bis 62ad year.
Whom the "gods ” love die youDg.
* * * *
Imported “mashers” will weep to learn
that Lizzie Coote died in London the other day.
She was a promising burlesque actress, and an
ideal stsge street-arab. We believe that ’twas
while turning a somersault, or a “Catherine
wheel,” or something of that sort, that Miss Lizzie
met with an accident that brought on paralysis,
and untimely decease. She was the elder sister of
Carrie and Bertie Coote, well known as clever
juvenile performers.
Labour is the process by which A acquires
property for B.
Alfred Bashforth was flogged at Maitland,
N 8.W., I Ji Bt week> We don’t sympathise with
Alfred. He was the man who had made the very
frame to which he was strapped for the purpose
of being flogged. “Making a rod for one’s own
back”is now more than a proverb.
Quite a pathetic little incident occurred in
connection with the early closing agitation in Mel-
bourne. The secretary of the Shop Employes Asso-
ciation, an ex-draper, gave a most powerful illus-
tration of the pernicious effects of long hours on
his system. In short, he died last week. It was
reported that the dying man sent for the most in-
tractable of the shop-keepers for the purpose of
urging the principles of early closing with his last
breath. There was something so touching about
the idea that we started weeping and were half
through with a poem of surpassing pathos when
we learned, alas! that the poor secretary didn’t
send for the shop-keeper. So our muse was
“ queered.”
Wolf e’s Schnapps is the remedy “ par excel-
lence” for kidney diseases, indigestion and debility
Good grog out of inferior glassware is less
desirable than indifferent grog out of good glass-
ware, and may it not be said in reference to food
also ? Does it not give an edge to the appetite
to have one’s food not only nicely cooked but
served in nice crockery ? After getting accus-
tomed to good glass and china on the table how
dissatisfied one is when he has to go back to the
unsightly crockery too often seen, a not very far
remove from iron or tin articles. Moderate
prices for beautiful china and glass, Bray Bros.,
of 402 and 404 George-street are noted for.*
Wolfe's Schnapps an unequalled specific
for diseases of the stomsich and bowels.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
Oriental Gold
Company
(Established 1883),
IMPORTERS O F
First-dan WATCHES
AND
ORIENTAL NOVELTIES.
Send for the Oriental Gold Locket... 47-
Seal .. 47-
Bracelet. 87-
» 10/-
» 12/-
„ 14/-
.. 167-
8ov. Purse 47-
Match Box 47-
Scarf Pin.. 2/-
>• >t ••• 2/6
if it • • 3/-
,, 4/-
ii ii • • 67-
Albert ... 67-
Charm .. 4/-
Studa, f.set 3/-
4 /-
.. 5/-
.. 67-
Keeper ... 2/6
Gem Ring 47-
Buckle „ 2/6
Diamond „ 67-
Brooch Set 5/-
7/6
10/-
15/-
Cross, 4/, 5/, 67-
Locket, Ladies ... 5/-
.. .. 10/-
.. ..157-
Bangle 37-
Earrings .. .. 4/-
» «. ... 57-
Albert .. .. 15/-
•I 20/-
.. 257-
Necklet .. ..57-
Watch (Ladies’).. 30/-
„ (Gent’s) .. 30/-
Broooh, frm 1/6 to 107-
old Gem Ring ... 8/6
Keeper „ .. 7/6
Wedding „ .. 7/6
Valtham
Watch £8 8/-
•• II 9 9/-
.. „ io o/- 1
» ,, II1 V-
Send for the solid
Up to £50.
Send for the Silver English Lever 4 0/-
4 10/-
5 0/-
5 10/-
6 0/-
6 6/-
8 0 /-
Send for the Silver Waltham Watch 2 10/-
3 0/-
3 10/-
3 15/-
4 0/-
5 0/-
6 6/-
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
A handsome Oriental Gold Brooch
will be presented to any one sending
ah order for no less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth of the above articles.
Cut out this coupon, and send it along
with your order to The Oriental Gold
Company, 471 George-atreet, opposite
the Markets'.


BRIEF MENTION.
The knell of injustice to Ould Ireland—
Parnell.
Carcoar’s Chronicle's editress spells it
“ bymenial.” We are sorry.
This is the time of year when the bank
clerk can’t balance his ledger without calling upon
his bondsmen.
An American professor says that “beoause
be oannot tell how an egg is made, or what it con-
t f %
THt
VICTUAL SPARK
FRESH ME,NTS .FREEOH CliA RGF
jThe highest price given for left-off
j slothes,
A f trotter for sale.
“Called Beck. 1,
“ Well, he’s dead enough, but all the
same we’ll have to work him these next
three years.”
it’s no use trying to do
business without advertis-
jing. It is like winking at a
sg\rl in the dark. You 'know
|vbat you are doing, hut no-
body else docs
“ What is a mortgagee, and a mortgagor 2,l
“ Suppose I mortgage my horßo to you, [
the mortgagor, y6u are the mortgagee.”
“ Then, what is the horse ,J ”
f ‘ The horse is the mortgageegee,”
Edith • " Why did he thank God, grand-
pa?”
Grandpa ? Because the bear didn’t eat
him, ”
Edith “ Thea why didn’t he thank the
bear r ”
rh<’ Japs, have arrived.
Philmania.
tains, he believes in God.” If he tried Sydney hash
he would for similar reasons believe in the Devil.
One thousand four hundred and ninety-
two illegitimate children born in N.B.W. in 1885,
And yet we want to annex the New Hebrides!
There are now two Sunday-papers in
Sydney. They should consider the question
whether the pulpit should be occupied the very
time the people want to get their Sunday infor-
mation.
The Sydney D.T. announoes the receipt of
a telegagram from Cooktown. Murder will out.
We had often wondered at its marvellous informa-
tion, and now we know what the office calls its
special messages.
A well-known bookmaker ablaze with
diamonds tried to push himself into Beach’s dress-
ing-room on Yarra bank, the other day. “ Excuse
me, sir,” said the discriminating attendant; “but
only gents is hadmitted ’ere.”
The Cooktown (N.Q.) Courier “ denies our
looal contemporary's statement that we are his
younger brother.” It proceeds then emphatically
to deny alll consanguinity. Then It majestically
asks: “Does the Eagle consort with the Carrion
Crow ?”
The new courthouse at Darlinghurst,
Sydney, is nearly completed. It is high time. If
there is one grievance a man iiads Intolerable, it
isto stand in the dock and scarcely find breath to
say “ I’ll take it out, your Worship.”
“The reward of the N.S.W. marsupial-
hunter is for the scalps of his victims, and the
huntsmen skilfully remove the scalps of youDg
kangaroos, with the ears attachod, and set them at
liberty again. The loss of their scalps and ears
does not prevent them from breeding.” The laws
of nature are inexorable. The bald-headed man
often has a long family.
Notice to the dead. Canon Gunther has
arranged with the N.S.W. Minister for Hallways to
keep a hearse standing at Parramatta station for
corpses wishing to be carried to the Necropolis.
Fares-first-class Is. 6d,, second 93.
A horse which had the distinguished
honour of drawing the Hon. Jack Want about
Gundagai last election has just gone over to
the majority. They attribute his decease to fright
More likely the poor beast died from want.
A Wesleyan parson in Hobart examined a
class of small children in Scripture history. “ Who
was Stephen ?'* “ The first martyr.” “ Now, who
can tell ms what a martyr is ?” “ They’re some-
tiues red and sometimes yellow, and mother
makes sauce of them.”
The boss and his black-hoy were out on
the run together, and the boss sang a verse of
“ Please give me a penny.” Black Boy: “My word,
budgereesong that. What name?” Bos# “Poor
fellow boy, very hungry—want ’im penny belong-
ing other fellow buy ’im bread.” B.B.: “Poor
pfeller, boy, want ’im penny buy ’im bread, eh?
Poor 'pfeller, boy—why the —— - can’t he
ask him sixpence?”
“Entries for the olass ‘Babies’ at the
Tamworth (N.8.W.) Agricultural Show can be
lodged up to the last moment on the ground,”
says the local News. An admirable provision. A
fellow never knows up to the last moment how
many he might have to enter.
Advertisement in a N.Q. paper:—“Wanted
a servant. A Protestant preferred if not a Homan
Catholic.” This is an instance of religious cosmo-
politanism. We believe the advertiser would even
be satisfied with a Swedenborgian, and would
actually cotton to a Confucian.
Exhortation from Sydney Evening News :
—“Do not lie always on the same aide.” This is
giving away the News’ policy nt cost price. The
gentlemen of Alfred's staff lie with equal facility on
either side. No wonder they have erected above
their cilice a statute of Mercury, the god of liars.
John Ferguson, of the Cumberland Times,
airs this conundrum:—“ We have amongst up-"
may all the gods be praised for it-a Cardinal
Archbishop carting our souls to Heaven, and some
Papiat brewers and other blackguards wheelbar-


rewing our souls to Hell. What shall we do * be-
twixt and between thenf? * ” John also observes
that ‘the introduction of an heroic hangman would
be an exoeilent remedial measure for the great
plagues of society,” which he defines as being
pig-headed juries and Parliamentary caucuses.
At Cattle Creek, Ingham, N.Q., they have
no Ananias, so we oan give full credenoe to their
yarn of a girl being eaten up by an alligator which
left her clothiDg in the water "uninjured and
buttoned up as when worn.” Forty buttons in
front of one dress would probably frighten any
alligator.
The meanest piece of business which has
come within our ken for the last as on or so is
In the Pocket.
A PAINFUL, THOUGH NOT NECESSARILY FATAL WOUND.
mixed up with the case of Timothy O’Regan
Donovan. Timothy is a Zulu. He was empannelled
In a gaol cell for eating Melbourne beer to excess.
After being remanded for a week, and brought up
again the case was dismissed, but a parsimonious
Bench charged him 10s 6d , board and lodging,
for the week he had spent in quod. This is a pre-
cedent worthy of the fiercest denunciations of an
outraged community I Thunder I they’ll charge a
man something fer being hanged next. People,
we incite you to riot 1
Speaking of a eertain ungodly congrega-
tion up Queensland way the treb'e-ex-reverend
Peter Campbell once deqlared:—“ If you took a
hogshead and filled it with the spirit of righteous-
ness, and you took another and filled it with
whisky and rolled It out on this road, the
whisky-cask would be emptied in 10 seconds, while
the other one wouldn’t be looked at once in 10
years.” How that back-blocks congregation will
grin to-day when they hear of poor Peter being
found in a Flinders-street gutter fighting the air
with his beautiful feet, and excitedly enquiring:
“ Why er corprashin doan tie down these—hie—
pavements ?”
AtCasino (N.S.W.), a while sinoe, aSlavonic
citizen was " tuek bad ” and hied him off to the
local hospital (which had only been just com-
pleted and was waiting for a patient). Here he was
told that his malady was dangerous and necessi-
tated a serious operation, which he duly under-
went. Asjhe was apparently sinking fast, he was
induced to his will, which the hospital
management found to be in their favour, and he
was joyfully reported several times as defunct.
But after all the obstinate man recovered, and
now the committee aj>d subscribers threaten with
vengeance the over-conscientious medico who
cured him at a loss to them of £3OOO.
At midnight, in the bar-parlour of a bush
hotel, a well-mellowed Milesian broke in upon our
little chat, and worried us to drink with him.
As the inn was crowded—every sofa and hearth-
rug occupied—it did not occur to us that this
“ daoent by shlep in the corner on the boords,” so
we hopefully reminded him that drinks would not
b 9 supplied to his order after hours, as he was not
a boarder. Racy of his soil, he rose to the occasion
and thus he smote our wondering ears : “ No
boardher, bigorrai didn’t I staleep there on the
ihlure for the lasht three nights. Now jesht tetch
that bell.” The chieftain of the Reeks fetched the
nobblers, and we pledged the ‘‘first jim of the
say.”
Take out your handkerchiefs and weep
for Mr. Kingston, of Melbourne, a victim of
Graham Berry’s immortal Black Wednesday. Poor
Kingston drew £BOO a year as a Government
engineer, but after his dl‘missal he gave way to
drink and “ refused to work.” So now he spends
his evenings in going round to the police stalrlons
and earnestly soliciting a night’s lodging. We
really sympathise with Mr. Kingston in his dis-
tress. The statement that he refused to work
after losing a Government billet is unfeeling and
uncalled-for. Work, indeed 1 And he an ex-Clvil
servant. What should the poor man know of
world We might as well expect a deposed mon-
arch to be able to build abridge.
The Australian public, no doubt, think
that the highly moral and intensely respectable
proprietors of the Melbourne Argus do a national
service by printing advertisements of this class
(vide Ahgus of Bth inst.):-“ Wanted, a well expe-
rienced man as Compounder, able to produoe
liquors and whisky from rectified spirits*: a com-
petent man only need apply, to Border, Argus
office.” As the would-be employer of the *• bar-
compounder ” who can make whisky out of kero
setae and things, possibly lives on the Sydney sld
of the border, we hope that the Inspector-Genera
of N.S.W. Police has already got a detective to
apply for this billot. Such are the things which
come to us from the colony that has just passed
new Licensing Act.
A wall-eyed Chinaman was hanged at
Brisbane last week, in the name of Viotoria Re-
gina, the alleged defender of a Christian faith.
Two Anglican parsons stood by poor John till the
last, generously proffering him the solace of re-
ligion, and tiokets for a seven-stringed harp, and
a glowing robe of snowy white. But the yellow-
skinned Pagan didn’t care about these things; all
he yearned for was good tucker; he prayed to
have the fat of the land shovelled into him during
his latter moments, till there wasn’t room for
grace. He said—this unsophisticated heathen—
that he wanted feeding up before he faded away,
so's he’d have strength to come back and kill two
witnesses who depos ' d against him at his trial.
To this member of a derided race the world is in-
debted for a startling idea. Fancy the man who
started to learn the loud timbrel next door, the
raffle promoting fiend, and the many olergyman
we have disagreed with, all waiting round the
pearly gates te jjqtfcle “that little difference ** as
soon as we enter in. Mighty Mars I we must go
into training.


Political
Poits
Evictions still continue in Ireland. On Sir
John Stewart’s Tyrone estates the sheriff’s officers
were assisted by ICO constables.
The resignation of Messrs. Heydon.and
Slattery is now looked upon as hopeless. This
comes of both of these Parliamentary worthies
having: been a Minister for about nine minutes
Resign! They are too demoralised by fame to do
that. Having both already resigned their minds,
did they resign their seats also, they would be
“ poor indeed.”
The Berry Testimonial Committee wrote
asking Tristan, of the Seymour Express, to con-
tribute. Tristan answered that Berry had of late
“ proved himself a political curse to the colony
He gave every assistance in wrecking the Liberal"
party: and helped to place the present Conserva-
tive Ministry in power, although in so doing he
contravened the very principles of Constitutional
Government.”
Thus an editorial in the London Echo
“ It is not, perhaps, surprising that the Australians
should object to the proximity of the French, but
England has no right to attempt to exclude other
nations from annexing islands in the Paciflo
which do not belong to her. By-and-bye the
colonists will be strong enough to act for them-
selves; but, meanwhile, it is not for England to
quarrel with her neighbours because the colonists
will not listen to reason,”
The Rev. R. R. Kane, of Ulster, some time
ago, advised his flock that “ for every landlord
shot they should kill the parish priest and the mem-
ber of Parliament for that county.” Kane now
says that aid from England being hopeless, the
Orangemen should apply to Germany. “ A few
German battalions,” he remarks, “ will soon make
an appreciable effect upon Irish intellect.” The
escaped nun’s N.B. W. Parliamentary friends should
get Kane out here to lecture.
Bradlaugh has just said that though the
Whigs, by revolting, might wreck Gladstone’s
Ministry, and with it end the Premier’s illustrious
career, yet by doing so they would destroy them-
selves and the House of Lords. A prophecy
which, let us add, is as true as that all men will
di®. Men like M’Arthur (Australia’s chief con-
tributor to Whigdom) now have their choice for
once and all between the Tories and the Radicals
—betweea the Devil and the Deeo Sea. Wilson
and Heaton have, we grieve to see, chosen tte
devil.
The King of Denmark is a Lutheran and
his children are respectively Lutheran. Anglican
Russian Orthodox, Greek Catholic, and Roman
Catholic. This diversity of views might indicate
great independence of thought on the part of the
family, but it does not. It merely shows that the
Danish princes attach less importance to their
chances of going to heaven in company than to
the religious requirements of the different courts
to which they have emigrated. It also shows that
King Christian and his family are shrewd enough
to accommodate themselves to circumstances
when those circumstances seem good enough.
The. Melbourne Presbytery is still suffer-
ing over the proposed cession of the New Hebrides
to France. They have got about £50,000 in the
islands, and several of their missionaries have fat-
tened and nourished this generation of savages.
One rev. gentleman at a late meeting said that the
Imperial Government should stipulate that the
church shall receive the outlay—baked mis-
sionaries and all, we suppose. But this idea did not
tako with the other revs.; they would rather
cherish the feeling that the church had been
wroDged until (give ear, oh Australasia!) one day
a united Australia would be in a position to settle
the acoount with France.
Tbe Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald is candid:
—“ We areas much opposed to the French annexa-
tion of the New Hebrides as we were to the Ger-
mans annexing New Guinea. As England has
taken the part of first or principal robber in the
play of annexation in this hemisphere of late
years, let her keep that position in order to secure
what she has, and neither let the second robber,
France, nor the third robber, Germany, interfere
with the Imperial looting of these or any other
islands.” This is very much more honest than the
eternal whine of the grim Calvinists who want to
clutch the plunder in the name of “tbe Lorrd.”
Thus valiantly the Cooktown Courier:—
" A great and glorious colony, rivalling in wealth
the who’e of Australia and standing forth confi-
dent in her strengtn to take her place among the
many other units that go to make up the British
Empire, and keep it; or merely the down-trodden
appanage of tbe insatiable South, existing only to
satisfy the greed of Queen-street politicians, and
P®o enable them to enrich the Southern portion of
.Queensland at our expenses. A very little time
will tell. History invariably repeats itself, and we
who live in the North are determined that even as
in the fifties Moreton Bay won her independence,
so now, in the eighties, the North shall be freed
from the greed and rapacity of Queensland.”
John James, who was appointed Minister
of Mines in the Gillies Ministry, and who was de-
feated by Murphy in Ballarat East, is acting
Minister and will act until he sees the result of his
petition for unseating his opponent. The contest
was unusually severe and all sorts of devices were
used to oust John—personation, violence at the
booths, &c— chiefly in the famed Bungaree por-
tion of the electorate, that section whose voters
C. E. Jones once addressed as “ Gentlemen of Bal-
larat—and savages of Bungaree,” and where, on
one occasion, when Townsend Maodermott, the
Solicitor-General, was defeated, and the crowd
hooted him when returning thanks, he fixed
them with his glazed optic and said, “ Yes, bellow
away. I have defended one-half of you and pro-
secuted the other half.” Townsend’s eye-glass was
not often seen in Ballarat East after that.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A., has a
queer reason in favour of the retention of those
hideous specimens of aboriginal art, the Sydney
Post Office carvings. He “ believed it would be
an act of vandalism to remove them. The fact
seemed to be overlooked that time and atmos-
pheric changes would soften and tone down the
figures, and as they became accustomed to them
their repulsiveness would disappear.” The same
factors will no doubt “soften down” a lot of
thinsrs- members of the Legislative Council
of N.S.W., for instance, would never be resolved
into their constituent elements but for time and
atmospheric changes. If you could hermetically
Beal up the fattest councillor in a glass case, and
stand him on his accustomed Parliamentary bench
he would stop snoring, and, barring that accom-
plishment, be as good as new in ten thousand
years.
A count-out put a summary end to
the discussion in committee of Sir Alfred
Stephen’s Divorce Extension Bill in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council-otherwise the Houso of the
Gluttons Snore—on Thursday last. It is more
than probable that this was the result of a shallow
strategem on the part of the soft-brained legisla-
tive antiquities of that Chamber, who found it
easier to sneak away than to oppose by their pre-
sence what they were unahle to meet with argu-
Shyw»i be jptroduction of a progressive measure
the Political museum of fossilised remains
seems nothing short of a joke, and its fate is only
h[«iVri 18rht h . av< : be , en expected. When the Legis-
lative Council introduces and passes any measure
conferring fulier freedom on the people, or sweep-
Wfi o tbe .°? bweb3 °| Sectarian superstition,
mfarni 1 f xpect to gather figs of thistles. Christian
Supreme Court. ° ra ° ge L ° dge ’ ° r juBtice ln a
the £60,000 to be subtracted from, the
oted , last year for the expenses of the
ffed y fr d rf^ a^ ment of be mainly de-
wUi-ho the sums granted for officers, there
nn/ rie£ among these magnificent Mun-
hard| 8 v D nnoiihi yery much joy elsewhere. It is
hardly possible now to go into a Sydney club or
coionei h nr U hou a o TT 1 ? 110 ! 1 - 4 meeting some pipe-clay
°?tonel or belted brigadier, whose knowledge was
pr °babjy in the soup-kitchen of a regi-
garrison duty, and whose abilities as a
Z trZ of i e nn not sufficient to enable him to hit
i B >,f 100 yards range if it were set up on
od ®;| t or J he army in 811 history has been a
enhfniAam dise for luxurious paupers, and in the
ciiis« a n S^Jin very much the resort of that
fn C + sod up for the purpose of assist-
*)?« scatt ®f the annual vote. If the champagne
an* n& ar allow anees of the multitudinous majors
bfi d s £n h n e t nff a f^ erlD , g military dead-beat? are to
be struck off, their loss will be the gain of the
community. We laugh at the Americans who
to Australian popular notion, are all
But to-day New South Wales finds her-
oin by one Btroke of the illustrious
Bailey s pen, into a nation— of colonels.
Says Reynolds’ Newspaper : “There
5™ a “ewer prosecution than that of the
Unrn« 8 an l * W®n 3 ’ MeBBrB - Hyndman, Champion;
ii™?! and Williams, for advocating the cause of
safd d TffV?I e « unemployed. Those gentlemen
thn ’ 1 0 Government does nothing to prevent
ml r h n t? e Bt « vat mn of the workers, they
the S nrAP^ne X o ec£ I t , hat the workers will submit to
present social arrangements, by which the
few have everything, the many nothing.’ The
2. py ?? n ment reply, ‘ You must go to prison for
mSst w^ *olll^ 16 doctrine that the rich
less in order that the poor
mvt- y +hL ve ” This is the whole case in a nutshell,
toA?<,Sw is that the verdict, as announced
ftooMKA* “ wirtT °t, b l e % has be9 ° in fa vour of the
accused. With what joy would the “ special cor-
tha?a n aAntAn* 0f f daily Press have wired out
{“i? a ?£°£ e ° c ? of * b j ee years had bsen imposed,
Ruf R® ecstaey 18 denied them we have simply
the curt intelligence that the prisoners were ac-
quitted, and must wait for the exchanges to dis-
?o V t e wjX- h &* t i WaB tbat tb ‘ au thorities were unable
vffitimf t ßri l 1° a * to *? ake these socialists its
hioaTo sb f r :edom 19 a magnificent thing to
boast about m post-prandial orations, but directly
any reformer begins to discuss matters in a tone
unpleasant to the ruling Germans and thei?
fitB®c?foSg°-“onB a . £edltiOUB demagogUe aad a
adb ®f e nce to that principle of British law which
holds every man innocent until proved guilty
?P d a ? Be *t B ttmt no man is bound to criminate
himself, if it is true, a 9 smted in the Melbourne
qV„ a t 5 a ntliest of papers—that he armed
Stuart Cumberland with an order which, bv ner-
Siouof the Sandhurst gaoler, enabled the m?nd-
reader to put two Chinamen-Chin Yung, and
2u ° g J^° ng - under various teatj for the pur-
pose of discovering whether they are guilty of
the crime with which they are charged. The ex-
periment failed utterly, whereupon Mr. Cumber-
land explained his defeat by abusing the prisoner*
But suppose a confession of guilt had followed
would that have been submitted to the jury at the
coming trial as evidence, or would it have been
twiof e P h Ub !)* hed * m the pape,s for the inferma-
th°Q n vpod men and true who are to try
the Ce.estiais? We don’t know whether Sir
M e a r a^>i?^f n * B + ;obeer ! ® " uar t Cumberland on hand
as a sort of detective s assistant or not. This ex-
faded, because the prisoners were safd
not to have any minds at all, but there is no reason
wny it should not succeed with educated
prisoners. But if it be purposed to make a ?su-
£ui.lt'Oonfession business, we
would suggest the revival of an instrument that
used to prove very powerful as a means for the
t 0r Q lon of evidence in times past. It is called
v, r 8 Rod there is another
which used to be a source of much amusement to
mediaeval kings called the rack. We commend
these to the attention of Sir Henry Loch and the
governor of Sandhurst gaol. 9
who was out here as
. tPt °Pef the Princes—poor man, he had a tough
job—says, in the second number of Jmpfhtaf
Federation :it has been objected that the lm-
perial Federation League has put forward no for-
mulated scheme of Federation I We might as well
talk of a formulated scheme for promoting the
blooming of roses.” This simile may appear pretty
to inmates of a nursery or to nurse-girls of a
poetio temperament; but to ordinary intelligent
persons such reasoning is owlish. Guidedbytho
unerring laws of Nature, roses bloom at certain
and regulated periods. They require no subsi-
dised journals to start them into bloom - they re-
quire no well-paid functionaries nor ambitious
casuists to assist in the operation. Imperial Fede-
‘PthVhfßi the ? band * is more indistinct than
the baseless fabric of a vision.” It has its news-
papers to praise it; it has its statesmen to recom-
mend it; it has its high church dignitaries to
bless it, and its bands of goat-slayers and Arab-
-BRo°tbast bas lfca credulous imbeciles to
adopt it; but it has not a solitary advooate to toll
us what it means, or what are its obiectsf Tt
seems to be nothing but a ruse on the part of some
a!, statesmen who have never been out of
backed up by some rich persons who
ought never have been allowed to live either in
Eigland or Australia, to inveigle the colonies into
adopting the views and bearing the exDense nf tho
War Office, an irstitution controlled by I
half-imbecile German, without being permitted to
influence its opinions or deliberations. Imperial
Federation simply means that when some indolent
fs U food for W Bhrapns. rWard ltS b6St b ° ne and muBck '
Sc?aap°ps ate yourfailin s frames with Wolfe’s
if oi?, 1 ? 6 wo “ iea boxes at the opera look as
if sitting up in bath-tubs.
Says the local Independent “Something:
ir* * don .f to m break the monotony of life as it
is in Mudgee, This is the most frantic aDDeal to
time° r berS t 0 pay UP bat we bave aeen for some
~T lie. , Heavenly Paradise is frequently
thought about and hoped for, but few strive to
make an earthly paradise for themselves. After
ft® crosses, annoyance and exhaustion of business
' Quiet, tasty and well-appointed home is appre-
w®.fail]n d °ick our part to build up an
earthly paradise if we neglect the beautifying of
of the dwellers and the adornment of
!&!< d 5 eli !? 8 u place ; Articles new and beautiful in
design and shapes in Glass and China for the table
mantels, walls, cabinets and, washstands intended
for making home happy obtainable at Bray Bros.’
China Showrooms, 402 and 404 George-street.*
A London lady asks why, when a woman
Bh puld be compelled to publicly exhi-
bit the badge of servitude known as “ Mrs " Blank
rfmii« h ®w hu » ba ? l i allowed to go scot free as’
simple Mr., without any outward and distin-
guishing mark of his new condition? If it is
necessary that the wife should be labelled “ Sold ”
why should not the husband also bear the red
ticket? The title of “ Mr.” is entirely too compre-
hensive. I here is no danger-signal in it to catch
the eye of the unwary, and a young married man
can often do a great deal of mischief if he is lo
incUned. We have a remedy. Mrs. Brown wears
a wedding ring. Mr. Brown should wear a rintr—
in his nose. u *
Wolfe's Schnapps cannot be
for its flavor and purity of spirit.
approached
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Mr. Threediee is the name of a oertain
N.S.W. town clerk. We hope he isn’t loaded
At Bega, ladies of all denominations partially
liquidated the local School of Arts debt by a
bazaar. Now one of the institution’s rooms has
been made into an Orange lodge Sir Alfred
Stephen points out that since 1860 there have been
12C0 cases of judicial separation in N.S.W. The
Bega Gazette attributes much oi the trouble to
mixed marriages.... Sydney gaol is still so full that
the governor has to decline to reoeive prisoners*
He returns prisoners sent him, and endorses the
warrants thus: “Must decline to insert. Held
over for want of space.”....P. S. Solomon, late
editor of the Fiji Times, presented with a purse of
sovereigns and illuminated address. Queer people
in Fiji! N.S.W. Editors get no addresses save those
invitiDg them to appear in King-street and explain
why they should not present a big bag of sove-
reigns, to “ the said plaintiff,” and another to his
lawyers Girls wear “bangs” to keep men from
kissing their foreheads instead of their lips
Thargomindah and Windorah (Q.) are suffering
from a plague of ravenous rats. They have eaten
most of the grass and a portion of the mail driver’s
hoots At Casino, N.S.W., a well-sinker reported
that he had bottomed on gold. The community
stampeded for miners’ rights-and then discovered
that the date was April 1 Mr. Nelson, editor of
the Traralgon Record (Vie.), whose left leg was
broken by a man whose letter he had declined to
insert, significantly says that “much more will be
heard of this matter.” We advise Nelson to lie
still, or he may find the fibula of his right leg
cracked, and his neck sprained in several places.
As Solomon says, “ it’s better to meet a lioness
whose whelps have been kidnapped in the circus
interest than brave the wrath of the man whose
half-mile Phillipic on the ruinous policy of the
retrograding government has been used to boil
the billy of a bush edit0r.”....160 men are now
employed on Mount Morgan, Q„ the mine wherein
it is reckoned there are £9,030,000 of gold. Twelve
more furnaces are being erected; when these are
finished 600 tons will be treated weekly for an esti-
mated return of 48000 z., or say £19,500 I At
latest there were 16 typhoid patients in Auckland
(N.Z.) hospital, 11 of them lying on the floor I
....Genius will tell. A loaded dray, including a
cask of rum, left Bourke fer Croajingoalong. The
owner of the loading sat atop of the cask to pre-
vent “spileage.” At one halting place, an under-
ground engineer sapped his way under the dray,
bored through dray and cask, and filled several
buckets with the stolen waters.... Between Wil-
cannia and Louth 13,812 empty bottles were counted
the other dsy. Two N.S.W. papers had sent special
reporters that way. ..In the Gunnedah (N.S.W.)
district, so terrible is the drought that sheep which
would have realised 10s. per head in the long
droughts of '77,* ”78, and ’79, are now being offered
at 2s. 6d. without buyers.... A Melbourne firm has
published a song, “My Darling.” Another at-
tempt to “ cabbage ” a noble river, which is wholly
and solely our Darling—the property of N.S.W
Genevieve Ward reports that the King of the
Sandwich Islands is as fond of champagne and of
ladies’ society as ever... .David Buchanan is going
f ? iBh °P Moorhouse....
R?* jL 1 ? M :M*for Rodney in the Victorian Par-
liament, who lately proposed a tax on bachelors,
threatens to again bring the subject for-
Buncan Gillies, the Premier, who is
ShT£«n a bachelor, is trying hard to dissuade
Shakell Vanity Fair suggests that Ladv
Soratchley and her daughters should have rooms
fW? a pii n the £ by the Queen in Hampton
Court Palace Horse-racing extraordinary in
Gunnedah streets. Traffic suspended for-twS
beers.... One of the Macleay editors is going to
drag two others into the libel-court .No snow
cn Mount Kosciusko. Thus the drought extends
right to the top of the highest Australian moun-
ts,hJK mixfcu £ e °? fossil intolerance and
? f , i h n W t e , r l anachronism known by the name
of the Orange Order. —Bega Gazette.
• • •
„ other day an English mother-in-law
found her son-in law watching by the bedside of
a sick wife. He had dropped off to sleep. The
mother-in-law thereupon smeared him all over
with petroleum and set fire to him.. They both
meant wefl. When “Wales” visited Ireland, a
Land Leaguer shouted in the hearing of H.R.H
"Down wid de discindint av a Jurmin sossidge.”
Upon which a more prudent companion whis-
ma bocnall Ye disrimimbir Mis-
SLw ne T to " , dU J t 0 P reB arve an indignant
brutality... .Lawyer, defending a horse-thief, was
vataX +£ e 8 f ed ? 7 l evidoDc e, and therefore pero-
rated thus: Gentlemen, it is better that 99 guiltv
B i oul ?, eBea S e r ?, ther thaQ that one innocent
man should suffer.” The Judge summed u“:
r^own 1611 ’ fbe 99 guilty have escaped long ago.”
” all Sh«°™« i? e ’’ +W Let v. m ® *®t y° u some cham-
R a A? e \, n u he - . No > q tba ? i k ®* Do you not like
Jt£,„ yes! But it has such an effect on
???! He, struggling to say something pleasant:
you-ah-bright! ”.. A French Judge
has punished a convicted bigamist by fining him
WhflnfhTL w 1 own Punisbment-and more.
.r, e ? the world is properly civilised, bigamists
will be sympathised with and compensated by the
m ,!? 18 to “conduct” his
Pm? ™°i be ,. a ta F’ Hoy 8 conduct ” buses. But
the conductor isn t the fellow who drives.
Admiral Whitney has told the U.S. naval com-
with two of his monitors armed with
a 100-ton gun each, he could sail round any Euro-
pean ironclad and knock her to pieces...” Mamma,
where do the cows get milk?” asked Tommy
looking up from the foaming pan. “Where do
tni Ü B n2n^ ea vf ? k T aS th ? answer. After a thought-
mill h broke out:-” Mamma, do the cows
have to be spanked? ’....Henry Irving’s eldest
son has decide! on a stage-career ...Sixteen mur-
derer® await trial in ’Frisco. For the first seven
of nu the year there was a murder every
*®! k - • v There is a time when a man must swear
P IS P e( V aundr ess has starched his
flannel-shirt... A broker is a man who breaks you up
by degrees; a banker is one who takes you in at one
gulp —A defendant in an English breach of pro-
mise case swore he had received 2000 letters from
h a g fa!;^/ lhe iL u f y at - once burned a verdict in
his favour....lt is quite a common thing in Cali-
fornia for a convicted murderer to be kept two or
three rears in a legal struggle for existence. Some
current murder-cases have been going on for five
J BarB; one ° f the worst criminals is out on bail,
and several,have exhausted all the enginery of the
thTiV and sppear to have worn out the courts, as
their cases are securely pigeon-holed.. .Sir Charles
, tk ? at ?! waB not well-advised on
the day of the trial not to go into the witness-box.
• • • •J- Boston directory contains 1300 Sulli-
vans, 1000 Murphys, and 700 M'Carthys..Sir Claude
i,?r.n t^ r a eB fif n ? r ’ ?u B English baronet, who has
™r * i> asBlBta ?t-hangman, says he considers his
aifh^^^’u 18 a plu °ky man, and states that
nava o m? h U 8 * b lt n frequently threatened he
5 ay ® htt.e heed to the warnings he receives,.
h™ B S B ® b ?J7 P, r °P oBBd the Marquis of Queens-
berry for the Relorm Club; the Marquis was
blackballed—the only one of 14 candidates A
satire on lunacy doctors:—The manager of Dun-
H. reJa ud) Lunatic Asylum fear dangerous
results from an accumulation of prisoners, fully
three-fifths of whom had been charged with mur-
der, some of them being quite sane ~.“Do you
fthmif* fe S > rp J 1 haye been *ewibly distwessed
state of my hands after playinc- tennis
but I find weawing gloves to bed vewy efficacious’
them weahly exceedingly soft.” “Indeed’
Mr. Flat, and may I ask. do you wear vour hat tn
bed, too ?”.... Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, rave as hi!
reason for reading a Sunday naner that
“wanted to know how God bad governed thl
world since yesterday.’’.... Mrs. Laugtey owns one
* nel P se *s J&ussian sable in the world. It
took years to collect, and it is valued at £l2oj" Tt
is used as trimmings of collar and flounce to a
long coat of black velvet.... Edison at his marriao'A
settled £200,000 on his wife—Joseph Arch, M P
Jit was first strongly drawn
to P oli t os by the reduction of his own wara
frpm 31s. to 93. per week....lt’s the lim„
tell—especially the little brothers
and sisters......A movement is on foot in
London for the establishment of a “ Christian
paper. Several wealthy Methodists are
tPtfested in the matter, and the editorship
will be offered to Mr. fetead If it be true
winH th °o S n who e S w the wlpfl sn all reap the whirl!
J'ood, all members of Parliament should be
kept busy all the holidays gathering in thei»*
ri°rV!i op ri LouiBe Michel saysshf wifi goto
„ Caledon *a t 0 °P en schools for the natives °
frnm C ?u hma !, can Pretty often be distinguished
' en £, le “ ian by the rosette in his hat
Conway s stories in the Bydney
in death W txL 2?n Way K ruliDsr P aBBion J s strong
n,? 9 will probably write stories forever-
more.... Queen Victoria, before marriage, arose at
noofl loC w an d^ ev °t e d the whole morning to busi-
S- Now she snores till 9or 10 o’clock and then
? er , breakfast propped up in bed. Queen
latest hM-ho+ a .? ood deal libe other women ...The
X n Bt J, 8 , hat no jury can be found in California
Phinn^o 1 e3nvict aQ y Person for the killing of a
Chinaman or newspaper-proprietor.” K a
ON A LANDLORD.
Till the day of his death he would never repent.
Gainst the pangs of the poor he was proof:
H m^ eve E ne kiected to call for the rent,
Though neglecting the rent in the roof.
~ • Pope sent Bismarck the Order of Christ
Ten to one he won t obey it Bibulous Printer
Cto proof-reader): “How do you spell whisky?
W?th an ‘e’?” Proof-reader: “No. Do you
dr * n r 4 an e’ ? ” Bibulous Printer* “You
bet, I drink it with * e’s.’ ” The friends of Dilkn
de . c ' ar ® tha t Mrs. Crawford made her confession
when she was not quite in her right mind. The
w U hoh-^ aS i’ we BUBpeet ' that she was not quite in
her babitnai wrong one, and therefore felt uneasv.
... .Waterproof clothing made of cork will soon be
£ worn. It will indeed be a great time for
from +hn h f°o f a r r L pock ? t ' flaBkB wh en apiece cut
for^hi^ofei 1 of t i ie P?. at 9 an be used as a stopper
bottle. And it will be a great day for the
soaker when he can patch the tail of his coat
corks from his bottles.... The Edinburgh
Courant no longer flies hither and yon across
Life s battlefield. Sir Walter Scott used to limp
tbestairs to see its editor ; Christophe?
North and De Qulncey many a time smelt its inky
proof-sheets, but the old Courant is dead at last.
....We hear of Mrs. Miller, a woman who is 90
P’ e ohfldr«n lld Tf l3 sm p ked tobacco 70 years and had
b'.? | b 1 J d ™n. It would be more remarkable if Mrs.
Miller had smoked tobacco 12 years and had 70
children. That would have been the way for her
to achieve notoriety.... He had lent £lO to a travei-
yH? theatrical-manager who on the appointed date
did not return the loan. So he wired: “It is
m^ an £, e ? ou bon't return the £lO as per promise.”
T ° lc n oa < me he curt reply: “It is not strange.”
r;;;^ e r ßoB^ on ,4 D y KIiTISEU classifies our dear old
™® nd J°.® Cooks leeture on “ Vital Orthodoxy ”
under Amusements.”....lf a man would always
remember that a little lie is charged up to him at
ce » big one, he would strive to be
either the biggest liar in town or noted for truth..
V ■ , E * Forster’s remains were interred at
Westminster Abbey, April 9, in the presence of a
large number of his friends-includicg, we’ll
wafer, Henmker Heaton.., Two murderers, Ford
fn d iQs< urpliy ’ condemned for a brutal murder dona
m 1884, were recently hanged at New Orleans
under horrible conditions. They managed B to
obtain some belladonna which they took, and
V l3lO arr ived, they were uncoa-
soious. Medical skill failed to rouse them, and the
women were pinioned and executed while in a
mat £ s u e Btate ’ hftvin k *0 be carried to the
’ y I T® re returning from the theatre,
where they had witnessed a love scene. “ I can do
better than that myself,” he remarked. “ Why
??? t you, then?” she enquired....An Anglican
b,’ B b®P had his family a domestic—a woman—a
strict R.C., who was always talking about the im-
posBibility of heretics getting to heaven. “ Why ”
said the bishop, “do you think, Mary, that I will
not get to heaven ? ’ “ Well,” said she, “if you
» be °A account: of your inconsavable
ignorance. .. At a reception given by a German
prince, a gentleman was introduced, who said to
the potentate: I was not present, your highness,
yesterday, when the officials had the pleasure of
P„ eing , latr ? (lu .? ed to your Excellency.” Prince
(haughtily): To be introduced to me, sir, is
an honour—it is no pleasure.” “So I perceive.”
An American paper says:-“ The mischievous boy
is simply a locomotive off the track.” And. we
may remark, a wrecked locomotive is generally
Rfiv Se rir l)y r C ff m - apl f C l d / wifcc ? 1 -- A w nt for the
Dr. Jeffens, of Sydney, is contained in this
.from a late Frisco paper:—“ Attention.
Workingmen I—On St. Patrick’s Day! At the
First Congregational Church, the Rev. Dr. Bur-
L°ws will deliver anaddress on “The Irish Ques-
tsoll I During the entire address the choir will
sing the new choral composed especially for this
occasion, and entitled, “ The Wearing of the
Green! Como and be saved?”....A journalist
went into a barber’s shop to have his hair cut,
and fell asleep duriDg the operation. The barber,
who a w° ke him when he had finished, said to him
~ are tlre . d - I understand it. It’s the same
way with m e when evening comes. Ah, this head
work is something terrible I ”....“ That Jewish
gentleman plays a splendid game of billiards!”
Ought to,” said Smith, squirming
a little” hig family has been playing the three-
ball game for gme rations... .The Avtagagdlivtit
Nalinginnarmik Tysaruminasasaumik ” is the
plioriious^titie.o^!a "journal started in Green-
aS,d *. Newsboys refuse to cry it on the streets for
less than £2 a day and a pair of steel-plated jaws..
In barber s shop. Red-headed man to bald-headed
man: You were not around when they were
Shvmg out hair?” B H.M.: “ Yes, I was, but they
only had a little red hair left, and I wouldn’t take
u^Vo ed Oulcb, Arizona, had a paper called the
Red Gulch Dam. The rival journal was the Red
Gulch 1001. The two have now been consoli-
dated under a hyphenated name... .Tne Magician:
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I take the liberty to
present to you the last piece on the programme.
I beg a lady in the audience to ascend the stage
ana enter this cupboard. I will then close it, and
when it is opened she will have disappeared en-
tirely. A man to his wife: “Here, old lady, you
£9 °° tbe'Stage. .... The movement to draw Q ueen
Victoria from her seclusion is secretly engineered
by a coalition of London tradesmen, headed by the
well-known draper, Peter Robinson. The plan of
these tradesmen is to browbeat the Queen into
to London. The coercion of the head of
the Guelphs by Peter Robinson, because he finds
her conduct interfering with the sale of his
plushes and brocades, is a fact.
, 9% E ; J ° nes eloquent, of Victoria, has
| had fair to good houses for his first two lectures
and from his reception it seams certain
that any future ones will draw even better
audiences. Sydney people do not, as a rule, pan
on lectures, but Mr Jones seems to chime in
with the popular desires.
The gloatings of the Sydney Press oyer the
indictment of Mr. Holt shows that good men who
th°flmnS fu ! u^ 0 win have a fearful addition to
the punishment the law may award them. There
ere now three evening papers to gush over the
appearance of the prisoner.”
Miss Davis, barmaid of the Commercial,
S, t 0 W£ V? P resonted with a purse of sove-
a numerously-signed" testimonial.
R n aya sh0 i i ® aveB her situation only
™ l , h ? Hymeneal altar and join in the noble
s ?*Mj e Patrimony. The signatures of her mar-
Ifof 0 a fr tire / S - are Judiciously illegiblo-tbo noble
state of matrimony necessitating extreme caution.


One hundred and sixty thousand pounds
in 36 hours.—The Broken Hill, silver mine, at
Silverton, appears likely to be the great Australian
wonder of the present day In about 36 hours last
week the stock advanced £lO per 16,000 th share in
value in the Sandhurst market, closing on Satur-
day at £45. There are about 300 shares held in
Sandhurst, and most of the lucky holders got in a
comparatively moderate rates.
To facilitate the delivery of “wires,” the
Sydney telegraph-messengers are henceforth to
he paid by results. So that »ow they’ll punish
“A frog he would annexing go,
Whether some Other folks liked it
or no.”
' 11 Beg ludship’s parding, but wot am I to dd
with all these here lumiDOus addresses ? ’Ere’a
another wan-loadof loyal sentiments list been Sent
in.”
Lord Caringtoi? (resting from his late fiOUr):
** ’Pon my life can’t say, Jeems —uriless you * illu-
minate ’ them still further. Only be careful not
to set the house afire I u
K PRAYER FOR RAIN.
It Is said that there are places in
this diocese where the raw has been super-
abundant. Now the clergy have la the book of
eotutnon prayer special forms of supplication
for rain, and for times of dearth. &t., which they
can ufic at their own discretion ;
II f X Ut- - • *
11 $l/? “ f/t>rctyec/rie foseren.ct 'sf/-
I duf ctt c Same time (aeftrayriee 7o t fut d znTo
A carts of die Ves/rjf cnen <?/ dt/S Claret; to ztonre
y^ e ?o<y refu rre d '
It has been officially announced
that two “faint comets” have
been seen, and may be expected
to arrive in this hemisphere
shortly. "Well, let ’em famt.
There being no ad valorem duty
on comets they can be of little
use to ua at present.
ATTEE THE SHAM BATTLE.
Volunteer: “And as I lay fallen thus, my
dear, the entire army, including infantry, cavalry,
and artitlery, and the spectators, charged over my
prostrate form 1 ”
She ; 4 ‘ And it was in this glorious movement,
too, I suppose that you got your new uniform torn
to tatters like that, and a black eye in the
bargain ? ” , , , , . T
Volunteer ; ” Oh 1 no ; that happened when l
tried to get a seat in a crowded comfn£,
home.” $
Me. Gladstone : “ It wdl be an ac-
quired taste, and many will dislike it
at first, but it is bound to become an
article of general diet in the end.”
“Whom the clergy have joined* let
no lawyer put asunder.’~Dr. Harry’s
Be vised Version.
Hopkinsonia.
their horses—provided for them by Government,
mind you—more disgracefully than ever. They
gallop iike Azteos. The Sydney butcher-boy is a
nuisance and a terror to the human race. He is a
re-incarnated Roman charioteer with a cross in him
of the Australian aboriginal. The Sydney teie-
graph-boy will, on the average, maim two men for
every message he carries. Will some member call
for a return as to the annual cost of the messen-
gers’ ponies ?
John Roberts, the billiard champion, was
defeated by Peall in their ridiculous spot-stroke
match, The arrangement was that the men
should play alternate breaks at the spot, “ the
red to be spotted at the commencement of each
turn, and the striker to place his bail (for the
first stroke only) where he chooses. It shall be
allowable, in case of either player losing position
behind the red, to recover it by means of winning
and losing hazards in any of the usual receptacles,”
Thus, if either of them got a little out of position,
he would have the option of playißg a loser in
one of the top pockets, leaving the red over one
of the middles, and regaining position by potting
the red and bringing himself to the top of the
, table again. Or he might “ stab ” the red into
either of the middle or lower pockets, and leave
himself in a line for renewed spot-stroke play. As
might be expected, the experiment was a dreary
failure. At the end of a week’s monotonous
striking, both men were heartily sick of the busi-
ness, and failed to make any respectable runs. On
one occasion during the match Peall put down the
red ball more than 300 times in succession, but bar
that, the breaks averaged no more than in an or-
dinary “all in” game. Roberts, of course, was
giving himself away in arranging a match on
these terms, as his strong point consists in his
ability to get on the spot oftener than anybody
else by means of all-mod play. It was like a
a clever two-handed boxer agreeing to a one-
armed slogging bout. However, as the public
failed to bite, there are not likely to be any more
similar exhibitions.
They are getting gold up North. The
other day, on Brisbane wharf, a gold-box in-
sufficiently secured, gave way, and let out part of
its contents, which, in all, amounted to 10,5000 z.
of the precious metal—from one mine, mind you I
And the Mount Morgan people, we now hear, are
getting over £30,000 worth weekly, and will soon
i oe handling at the rate of more than £1.500,000
worth a year. They have now, raised and stacked
all ready for the battery, about 35000 tons
of quartz, which, judging by experience,
is expected to go lOoz, including the yield
from pyrites, which equals that got from the
stone in the first instance. We are told that this
enterprising company—consisting of a very few
individuals—who have only beeD at work a couple
of years, have expended some £200,000 in plant,
&C 3., several of their cement-dams having cost
£lO,OOO each. The mine is between 20 and 30 miles
(by a good road) from Rockhampton, and the
nucleus of the huge property, consisting of
610 acres, was bought from two poor selectors
named Gordon, who knew not its value, for £640.
Finding that the auriferous stone extended far
beyond the boundaries of their freehold, the
purchasers took up a great number of claims
under miners’ rights, the Mines Department being
so effusively good-natured as to give them “ex-
tended ” claims—four times the ordinary size—
despite the fact that the regulations which permit
the granting of those claims state that they are
only to be given in ground which has been worked
and abandoned, or which is unusually poor or
hard of access. However, the syndicate got the
claims, and are now—with the aid of leases the
validity of which has been called (so far unsuc-
cessfully) in question —to monopolise what is»
perhaps, the richest field on earth, and is capable
of maintaining thousands of miners. They are
lucky doge!
Be sure you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Notice !—Reliable Oid Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Wolfe’s Schnapps as a tonio aud stimulan
eannot be surpassed.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Somihow or other, Highland regiments
are not a success in Australia, and the one recently
formed in Queensland seems, from what we hear,
to be the greatest failure of all. The soldiers
make a fine display, dressed in the flowing kilt
and gaudy bag-pipes, but, though they like the
garb, they do not roll-up all the aama. The sc-cret
is that it is impossible to light a match on the tail
of the Scottish gsrmenta. The colonial is always
a smoker, and a beneficent Providence created the
hindmost portions of his anatomy in order that he
might obtainia light thereon—but for this, in fact,
he might as well have no anatomy at all. The
modest and unwarlike pants, unlike the kilt, lend
themselves readily to his purpose; and they dove-
tail so admirably into the scheme of creation that
we believe their original plan and specification
must have been revealed from above. By throw,
ing up his leg at an angle of about 75 degrees to
the horizon it is possible to tighten the less digni-
fied portion of the garment to such an extent that
it will emit sparks on the slightest friction,
but no artifice can get the required tension
from the kilt. Even the blackfellow has studied
this branch of civilisation, and though he does not
strike matches on his pants he strikes them where
the pants ought to be, which shows that he is at
least beginning to rise in the social scale. The
value of this practice from a hygienic point of
view can hardly be overrated. It promotes the
circulation, imparts elasticity to the muscles and
agility to the body (when the lighted match is not
removed in time), and makes an otherwise unser-
viceable part of the human frame answer one of
the highest and noblest.of purposes, by aiding to
diffuse happiness and good fellowship. But with
the introduction of the kilt all this must pass
away, and the soothing tobacco will vanish from
our midst. No one can light a match on the tail
of such a garment; no one who is not heavily in-
sured would try to light one under it, unless he
wished to encounter the risk of being burnt to
the ground; and, therefore, the formation of
Highland corps is a direct flying in the face of
Providenoe, and the laws of Nature forbid that
the movement should prosper.
* m *
It’s all very well for the boys to telegraph
frpm Bathurst how delighted Lord Bob is, and
how enthralled with their reception were Lady C.
and the übiquitous and Hon. Miss J. We happen
to have, however, a little better information than
all that. We—you will hold your breaths at this—
we came up with them in the train. Aud we have
a distinct recollection of the following dialogue:—
Lord C.: Well, this has been a crusher! I
wonder why Gascoigne and Bertie wouldn't come ?
Captain Terry : And Lord Copple ?
The Hon. Miss J. ( reproachfully ): Did not you
leave the key of the tide-board behind ?
Lord C. ( gloomily ); In a moment of abstraction,
I own
LadyC.: Rash man I Do you not remember—-
Lord C. (sighing): Farewell our cherished Mar-
sala!— (yawning) : Where’s the freedom of the
City of the Plainp, Terry ?
Captain TANARUS.: Oh, it’s with the heavy luggage in
the guard’s break.
Lovd C.: Thank Heaven!
Captain TANARUS.: I think it as well to mention that
after this trip I shall have no further opportunity
of waiting upon your Excellency. I have to be
married in six months’ time, to be sure; but look
at the time it will take me to get ready my clothes.
Lady C., the Hon. Miss J., Lord C : Yes;
Look at, the time it will take him to get ready his
clothes!
Captain L.: The last drop of my life’s blood is
at the disposal of my Commander-in-Chief—but—
Ale: We feel it! The very last drop—
Captain L.: At the same time—
Hon. Miss H.: Naturally—
Lord C : Terry, lam down for Dubbo. Come
with me to Dubbo, and I release you.
LadyC. and the Hon. Miss H.: Oh, go with
him to Dubbo ?
Lord C. (weeping): Terry! have we not donned
the same uniform ? Have we not, regardless of
surrounding danger, guarded Marble Arch to-
gether ? And would you thus desert me ? I im-
port aides by the half-dozen, but yet have none
available. A prey to mayors and town clerks, I
am almost undone. Against these evils armour
will not protect, nor valour avail me! I look to
outside aides to ward off these Thrusts Municipal.
Captain TANARUS.: Where is Dubbo ? You know how
I suffer on board.
Miss H : Why, Dubbo is by land!
Captain TANARUS.: You re-assure me! In that case I
will attend, your Excellency, with girded scimitar,
and matchlocks in my holsters.
All: Saved!
| The scene closes in here, as we have to go to
Press. But be not alarmed! There is plenty more
of it.— Ed. B.]
• * B
If Baron Bob is not about “Jack” con-
cerning his receptions at the various centres of the
colony, he has a vast deal more of patience con-
cealed within him than the peculiar expression of
his legs would seem to indicate. Expressive legs
are among the characteristics of his Excellency
and it is known to those who do know ttat
at Executive meetings their attitude is much con-
sidered. At Parramatta (where, if an angry man
kicks his heel hard into the ground, he unburies a
skull) Lord Robert got it badly. Where, how-
ever, he suffered most was at tne School of Arts,
at which haven they got at him with an ode,
written by “ R. A. Withers, Isq.,” and which was
sung “to the tune of ‘ Rule Britannia,”’ with a
brass-band accompaniment. One stanza of this
great production will be enough:—
“ Not thine alone the welcome now—
Thou comest at our Queen’s behest;
To her great throne we fealty vow—
For ever be Victoria blest!
Hail, &c.”
Just a jingle—not querulous—but querying:—
0 Withers, can this, then, be thee
Who posed as Hist'ry’s greatest, son.
Who braved the fiercest tempest’s sea
When “ Round the World in 'Bl ? ’
You ought to know a thing or two,
You’ve seen the Universe's Rush,
You ought to know—and p’raps you do
This sort of thing is awful “slush.”
Think of the outfit they supplied—
A block-tm shirt not bought in vain
Socks of the peaceful bullock's hide—
A wardrobe which cime hick again!
What! thou ! Alf.’s pride of ail the bunch
Who’ve braved the Ocean's fairy scum—
Who’ve iought with Santiago punch,
And conquered Salt Lake City’s rum.
Descend to—No! thy flag’s yet furled I
Come down to “ fealty vow ’—oh, scissors I *
No 1 someone else went “ Round the World ’—
This is another “ R, A. Withers.”
[* This is, indeed a poor, if not degraded rhyme.
-Ed BJ
“ The Victorian railway employees have
received instructions not to speak disrespectfully
of members of Parliament as “ deadheads.” Yes,
dear friends, the edict has been issued. Hence-
forth the irreverent porter must find some fresh
term for the non-paying senator, under penalty of
being summoned to the bar of the House. A
member by any other sobriquet would smell as
sweet. “ Fathead,” for instance—but, no matter,
let us address to the thoughtless railway men
OUR PROTEST.
o greaser, greasing- at thy wheel,
O stoker, stoking up thy Are,
0 driver, with a nerve of steel,
O guard, whom servant girls admire,
Let no more jest and joking be
At M.L.A.’s who travel free.
They journey in their country’s cause;
It were not meet that they should pay,
Who ride about to make your laws—
And which of you shall dare to say
A member is a deadhead when
He doesn’t part, like other men ?
This world, remember, is a hive
Wherein are drones and working bees;
’Tis true the former often thrive
And live, on others’ toil, at ease—
Yet would you, in contemptuous tones,
Refer to M.L.A.’s as drones,
Because the pigeon-holes they shun
And pass the barrier on the “ nod ” ?
They harder work than many a one
That struggles with tbe stubborn sod;
The mental strain those men endure
Is something awful, to be sure!
Thou flippant, scoffing booking-clerk I
Thy shafts of wit no more must fly.
We’ve often heard thy rude remark
Of “ deadhead,” when there hurried by
Some senator to catch the train,
With rolling eye and weary brain.
“DeadheadI” forsooth, an idle gibe
At patriots who slave and sweat,
Who scorn the mention of a bribe
And never knew dishonour yet—
Whose proudest boast, remember, is
They never ride, except on biz.
O greaser, if you’d keep your berth,
And stoker, driver, porter, guard,
Be careful that you kiss the earth,
In token of sincere regard,
Whene’er you on the platform see
An M.L.A.—as travels free.
* * *
The Melbourne Age, we are pleased to
find, has drawn attention to what looks very like
an instance of judicial cruelty. “ The other day,”
says the Age, “ two young girls were caught
naked, and not ashamed, on the banks of the
Yarra, and sentenced to a year’s imprisonment each
with hard labour. Indecency must be repressed,
of course, though we very much doubt whether
the culprits themselves really thought they were
doing anything outrageously indecent. .
We are not at all sure ihat woman’s estimate of
immodesty is always what men take it to be.”
We quite agree with the Age. Garments, say
what you will, are merely symbols of sin and
civilisation. These young girls were uncivilised,
and, probably, pure, and saw no harm in-as the
Age put it further on—” unmasking their beauty.”
They had no thought of shame as they gambolled
on the Yarra banks, and their first sense of sin
came—with the policeman who arrested them
How very appropriate! We must immortalise*
those young ladies in a Miltonic poem
INNOCENCE LOST.
Sally and Poll, two maidens o’er whose head
But eighteen golden summers yet had passed,
Loved liberty and healthful woodland life.
The cold restraints of hollow social laws,
The prim proprieties (of shrinking shame begot)
Were to young Sally hateful, and to Poll ;
For they had been to Sabbath-class and learned
How, ere an apple was by Eve devoured,
There was no shame, and none were bid to bend
Before that throne whereon Queen Fashion sits.
And Sally in the lightness of her heart thus spake:
“ Oh I Poll, thou sharer of my every joy,
Let us together some fair Eden seek
Down by the margin of that sacred stream
Which dark-skinned warriors in the happier days,
Ere white men with their Bibles and their beer
Their guns and garments, came to banish peace—
The Yarra Yarra named. Oh, let us thither roam
And live as lived the mother of the world,
Unheedful of the city’s mundane modes,
And clad in nought, save innocence and smiles.”
Then went they down, the dimpled hand cf Poll
Tight clasped within young Sally’s loving grasp;
And when they found a dewy, cool retreat,
(For long the sun had gathered in his rays)
The maidens cast, with hasty hand aside
All garments, and stood bare before the moon
Which smiled a pale approval on the sight.
The gentle zephyrs held their wanton breaths,
The song of birds was hushed upon the trees,
And e’en the jackass stayed his thoughtless laugh,
And gazed, in courteous silence, at the twain.
Hither and thither flitted those fair maids,
Like fairies tripped they o’er the yielding sward,
Nor dreamed of evil. But, alas I there came
With ponderous step along the river side
Policeman X, and when his drowsy eye
Was sated with the visions it beheld
He bade the damsels once again be clothed
And “ Come Along.” With burning cheeks they
went,
And stately mien; a cloud came o’er the moon
To hide her face that she might not behold
These martyrs to the sinful thoughts of man.
Then Sally, drawing near to Poll, began:
“ ’Tis hard that we must wear again the robes
Of sin and shame, when we had cast them off,
An,d thought to live as best beseems our minds,
Can innocence with white men no more dwell ?
I fear mo not. But, Sally, when we’ve done
The little bit which tyranny ordains—
Ay, when our time is up and we are free—
Then, then, my child, we’il seek some distant isle
Where Nature rules and ‘ coppers ’ wield no sway*
There none shall babble of indecency, or cry
* Fie I Fie!’ upon us; in those better lands
’Twere only shame to know this thing called
shame—
A phantom sickly, conjured but to curse
The guilty minds of garment-wearing fools."
Are universally approved by leading 1 physicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, T«m 0 «
r°f ChltlS ’ ? lleP3y ’ Lumba S°' Bebilit y- Dropsy, Paralysis. loss of Voice
? e ° USr i !f!! eS ' NttlVousness - Backaches, Indigestion, I alpitation, & c ’
and have cured some of the most obstinate and distressing cas«s, after all remedies
(se-cailed) have failed.
app^nces^oiste^ifpen^tlfe o^!^ l un^r^pukms y and l^rrestKui < si^i or * ,lle ?® ® lec *J io and Magnetic
monSuauatop^ac^ablrprove. lllBB^66lo --"SS fi&rKMni o*s? »
“Dr CA aa«S N Kl e ,'friS" m ,hi"p°S“M«U I ,“' 6rlo f, •"I IPMlou. article, , OT
chasing any counterfeit of the following goods •— I “Dr^SontrsEWfrtn U n° n * he R ubl j c agaißst pur-
Belts, Dr. Scott's Electric H«ir, flesh or Tooth Brushes T?r s^of^ri 0 , 0 ™ 8 ! 8 ’ ,P r * Scott 8 Electric
Scott s Electric Insoles ” Every genuine article bears th« S, w?r<i » P a i van jß Generators, an! Dr,
as also does the box containing same The ex ten? of El J 3C^ ic an , d the name of Dr. Scott
public, having induced certain parties to manufacture°a line a nf’wo^h t ioaa lllar^ ed l . ap ? reciation of the
the general form and external appearance of ours and oods ’ ha J something of
Magnetic,” we respectfully ask that parties who have been ‘ Ma Kneto-E!ectric or Electric
publish, ail of which are strictly genuiue or The the man ? testimonials we
a trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the word OUr goods * to fflve electricity
In addition to this, we have recently registered a tradPmnVk 0 „ appe^r ,°R ? V ®£F article purchased.
‘ Pall Mall Electric Association, 54 Margaret-street Svdnev % sw ” in W our looal address,
device of a mailed hand holdtog a groun ot R ar £lnal lines, encircling the
appear on all goods manufactufed g by Dr. Scott d JSr t 6o/ /roMdf Xed),a fac - simile of which will
bIMC
mq
$
*x>
TRADE
MARK
-;4
£
sATE'E/tf
<Lre&s
tr
•m' c
€V e - c
OGLISH SATEEM
**■>.
Ssra
■ ,jcr
LINED WITH MEDICATED
FELT
Dr. Scott's Electric Corsets and Berts.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of electricity the functions of the
nervous organisation. Easy, graceful, and
elegant. They are worn by the principal
Royal Families of Europe, by the elite of Ameri-
can and Continental Society, and are daily en-
dorsed by over one million ladies, and as they do
not exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
makers, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling from
any cause, if you seem “pretty well,” yet lack
energy, and do not “feel up to the mark;” if you
suffer from disease, we beg you to at once try
those remarkable curatives. They cannot, and do
not, injure like medicine. Always doing good,
never harm. There is no shock or sensation felt
in wearing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results ; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently the first
day, and often during the first hour they are worn
their wonderful curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nervous and slug-
gish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health-giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Eleotricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practisa
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnetods in place of the ordinary corset steels. I
They are all equally charged, different only in
quality and design. They are elegant in shape and
finish, made after the best French patterns, and
warranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear n® others.
Most of the above applies equally to the Electric
Belt for gents.
These goods are sent out in a handsome box. ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we: will send
either *$1(1 to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of nrio®
named, with is. 6d. added; ’orwill"mail direotto
address upon receipt of stamp to cover post-
The prices are as foliows:—
£ Corsets 15/- B Corsets io/6
C Corsets ... ... 8/6 D Corsets e/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, m
Electrio Belt, 15/-
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... 5/-
No. 3 Hair Brush ... 9/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/d
Tooth Brush 2/6
Insoles
f*' o. 2 Hair Brush
No. 4 Hair Brush
Flesh Brush
Curlers... ...
3/6.
7/3
11/6
13/6
2/6
h “° dsoraB
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Wood-Working and Saw-Mill Machinery.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. A. FAY & CO., CINCINNATI
AND CARRY A LARGE STOCK OR THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES. ’
H?” EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.


sdr
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CORE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
M
m
35: '
V
Scrofula on Neck*.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old ag£, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiera, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
> heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
> stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
f Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
I and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
j mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
, Cuticura Kemedies are the only real Blood
. Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
. arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
l table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
• pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
■ Massachusetts.
Dor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
; druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
, Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
[ $1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
s ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
gsdf
ALLNOXIOUS
FLEAS, FLIES. BEETLES MOSQIU ITOES.
COCKROACHESAND IS
AT THE.SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
%
&
w.
gsd
fg
IN TINS
I s V UPWARDS'
byALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON-GRIMWADE.V.C?
- MELBOURNE _j
Wanted in Every House.
on
o
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Arne-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO*
Sole Agents,
74 Sttssbx Strbm. FiTtm.
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOfiJr
rm
°'*son & SO^ s
m
S YDNEY
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
DIXBOM ft SONS, Sydney,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
gjp- YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
F
lOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, aii sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLTASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Musio.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &e.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Libersl discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &0.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes oft 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
BULLISH BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st. , London
fIF" Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the address is not 533 Oxford-
i street, London, they are spurious.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
C°ST^R , C.E.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, never mind bow small
r the value, forwarded free of all charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Write for what you require and we will suit you.
JOHN T. H'IsNES & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS,
90 PITT ITREET, EIDNEI, EA.W
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
Sry ; so simple, yet ffiOst effective ; they can be
oroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ei>
perienca. They overcome the worst form cf
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK-" TONIC NERVINE.”
ABAjcTtt, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY U ORE loir Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&o. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its riohness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour t« the whole system.
Price, 4s. 6d., or 265. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Markbt-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.'Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
j. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Kedfern.
Xjlrxen. GKLoss
Nervous debility cured —l . man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fr* h
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, contai i
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OB COUNTRY USB,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
LOWEST PRICES.
UNMW
CO.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
ttgr EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


SOCIALS
A cricket match, which caused some little
Interest, was played at Victoria Barracks between
the Army and Navy on Tuesday, 6th. A large and
fashionable company was present including—many
ladies, Admirai Tryon, Mr. Wellington (private
secretary to his Excellency), Captain Milward,
Mr. Allison, Captain Petre, and a number of naval
'Officers. Tea and coffee were partaken of in the
mess-room at 5 o'clock. The band of the Per-
manent Artillery played selections during the
afternoon.
♦ * *
It is rumoured that the heir to a colonial
baronetcy, well known in Sydney, is shortly to be-
come a benedict.
* * *
An engagement between a gentleman pos-
sessing one of the highest titles in England, to a
young lady resident of a colony is announced.
* * *
Farm Cove is quite empty again, only the
Nelson and the Bart remain; for during the week
no less than seven man-of-war ships left the har-
bour, the Miranda, Opal, Swinger, Raven, Harrier,
Undine, and Lark. The cruises of the different
ships are to last from three to nine months. It is
believed that on their return there will be many
engagements announced which are at present
strictly private.
* * *
A ball given by the officers of the Diamond
in Hobart was not an unqualified success. The
guests were so few that they felt lonely in the
Town Hall, and the refreshments provided were
so decidedly “cheap and nasty” as to suggest
cheeseparing economy on the part of the hosts.
Possibly detention in quarantine had a depressing
effect on the gentlemen’s feelings and pockets.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note. —Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“B’Land”: Yourepistle quite incomprehensible.
Re-think it, and write again.... “Bourke”:
Sorry wo can’t oblige you.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Petersham Social, local Town Hall April 16
Sydney Social, Leigh House April 27.
M. Kowalski’s first concert, Masonic Hall.. May 3.
Mr. C. Huenerbein’s grand concert,
Masonic Hall Good Friday.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My dear Belle,— Last week Lord and Lady
Carington delighted the Bathurst people by
spending a few days In their little city. They
were, as a matter of course, banqueted, filed, and
generally made much of by the enraptured towns-
folk, and returned to Sydney by special train on
Saturday night. On Monday they started for
Newcastle.
We are having rather lively discussions here just
now aboqt Sir Alfred Stephen’s proposal to enact
a new Divorce Law. Sir Alfred, you know,
doesn’t see why a woman who has unwittingly
married a man, who is either a confirmed and in-
sane drunkard or brutal tyrant, should be doomed
to a life of misery. He thinks that in supb cases a
divorce should be granted, but Dr. Barry, the
Anglican Primate, holds different views. He says
the marriage tie should always be sacred, and if a
man and woman have made a mistake they should
take the consequences. Ned tells me the Cathedral
was crowded last Sunday night, when the Bishop
dhose this subject for his sermon, which shows
what a very interesting topic marriage is. We
are now wondering who will win the day—the
Primate or Sir Alfred Stephen. I daren’t tell you
whose side I take in case I might shook you; but,
then, now you can guess, can’t you ?
An Auckland paper, remarking upon the “ pro-
verbial beauty of the Auckland girls I suppose
the proverb fs current, in Auckland—says that
“ Perhaps in ages to come, some dusty nation of
the coral isles and orange groves of the Polynesian
sea yet may play the same part In New Zealand
history as the Romans did of old when they sold
the lndeed, the beauty of our
women might well tempt St. Kevin or St. Anthony,
who, it will be remembered, were Cupid-proof.
J ust imagine,” continues the Auckland man,
“the sensation of a Parnell, a Ponsonby, or a
Remeura belle on being appropriated by a dark-
skinned warrior of the Cakobau type I” The
poor editor fears that the South Sea blackfellowa
may yet steal all the Auckland woman. However,
he needn’t be afraid of the whites.
Signor Vittorini’s concert came off last Wednes-
day night, although it cuts me to the heart, I
am forced to confess that the audience was neither
large, fashionable, nor enthusiastic. Two of the
principal artists, whose names were down on the
programme—Madame Kellermann and Mr. F.
Brewer—were absent on account of neuralgia and
sore throat respectively, and the one novelty held
out to tempt people was but a sorry affair after all.
I allude to the mandolin solo. It is an ineffective
instrument, which may have gone down well
enough a few centuries ago, but as long as we can
get musical boxes, we shall never want the mando-
lin. Signor Letigia, a new arrival, was the man-
dolinist, and, perhaps, made the very best of the
instrument. I have heard Signora Fabris In better
voice, and Miss Glendenning also, but Mr. Alpress
played capitally, bignor Vittorini sang two solos
and a duet, but, although his voice is plentiful
enough, he isn't a successful vocalist, somehow. I
think it’s quality of voice that is wanting. And I
don’t think it's advisable for him to attempt the
dramatic, especially on a cencert platform-it
doesn’t suit his style, and although his gestures
and facial expression amused us all, I am sure
that wasn’t the bignor’s intention. If I mistake
not, he wished rather to enlist our admiration. I
must say the concert fell especially fiat after that
of the Metropolitan Liedertafel on the previous
Monday, and I am just as sorry as can be to say it.
Graham’s semi-annual concert was being held
the same night In the Protestant HalJ, and was, of
course, crowded, being an invitation affair. The
ladies of the orchestra—twelve, I think—again
distinguished themselves in a laohion, but they
attempt altogether too much. Mr, Graham Is a
well-known musical enthusiast, and spends more
than half his life training this band of uis, but for
all that he h s as yet failed to impress upon the
instrumentalists the advisability of keeping time;
consequently almost all their renditions have a
decided go-as-you-please air. But the other night
hey looked so happy and well-satisfied with
lemselves and the audience, which was oom-
l sed chiefly of friends of Mr. Graham, that
n 11 y nobody has any business to find fault.
o Soclety 18 Mr. Graham’s hobby,
afdthe little man spends a good deal of thought,
it? ver lfc * and as long as he enjoys
why It’s all right.. People aren’t obliged to
abm^ 4 mn h »t concerts if they are over-sensitive
s?®“ t “ U8lc ; will only leave more room for
- h 0! * P®,™ 68 are strong enough to stand a
little eccentricity in time and tune.
]a^ h ?rvin^ te^ e 9 H Dg + animalB we call men are at
i last trying to meet our wishes by introducing
r . e n m « Br into th eir garb, but, poor fellows, they
Onlfv^ e o 8 “ T ° St ¥ nha PP y ln their harmonies.
Dlnm mfn,? et one ln George-street in a
ooat ’ gr ,s en P aat8 * and sky-blue tie,
aome h Z! quite B . tart ling. I assure you
Pale-blue waistcoats and bright-red
n latter give them the appearance
with rid^or 1, heads joi ? ed 011 t° their bodies
W P’ but, 88 we feel oertain this
ho m^£ a I tur ® lB Bim Piy in order that they may
b ®'PPJ, 6 Pleasing in our colour-craving eyes, we
mfn?i! U w ra t tef S to them, and have made up our
minds not to harshly criticise the results. By
the bye we hear of at any rate one man who has
ei ? ou K. h to a PP ear at a fashionable ball
hi^?. 6 ic ? In the new evening dress which has
hnao i^K iDg Li fl^ e f.° i°ng-knee-breeches, silver
otw« TOin U f C^} ed Bh ?, es ' you know—but whether
auit or ,not is a question—men
a l®, Bo irritatingly constant to the everlasting
swallow-tails. A San Francisco paper, speaking
tt> e inconstancy of fashion, says “ She
(fashion) has always been stigmatised as a eapri-
cious, exacting, and worldly dame, who abides
. » 8 *. b *t a fleeting hour, and then
vanishes, but the Tam O’Shaater hat has
flung itself nobly into the breach, to prove this
sentiment a base calumny. Never has anything
clung to San Francisco with such burr-like per-
sistency as this popular head-gear.” Well, if this
is so. I am sorry for the taste of the San Francisco
peopie, for, surely, a more unbecoming hat was
never mounted. It takes a really pretty face and
head to wear a Tam O Shanter with impunity.
The return cricket match between the Daily
Telegraph and Bulletin resulted in a victory
for the latter. It is rumoured that the stage
means to challenge the Press next, and that, I
suppose, will about finish the cricket season. The
* Iv baBG 'P all match is to eventuate on the Ist
of May, and on the same night the players are to
have a big banquet in the Masonic Had, at which
the Governor has promised his presence.
Some one told me the other day that at the prin-
cipal West Bad milliners 5 o’clock tea is provided
for the fair customers, and I think it must be quite
nice to discuss tea, toast, and taste simultaneously.
These West Ead milliners are wise in their genera
taon. They have probably discovered that when a
lady has been shopping a oouple of hours she be-
comes so fatigued that she not seldom leaves half
her shopping undone, whereas a cup of tea puts
her into a good humour at once, and she is then
good for a few more bonnets, at the very least.
She may, of course, promise to call round the
next day and complete her purchases, but these
enterprising people have, no doubt, proved by
experience that a bird in hand is worth two in
the bush hence the brilliant idea of the tea. One
of our big drapery firms here once spoke of
attaching a restaurant to their establishment for
the convenience of their customers, but, as yet, it
has come to nothing. What a boon it would
be to us should they eventually carry out the
plan!
Monsieur Kowalski proposes to give two high
class concerts in the beginning of May, and this
morning Mr. C. Huenerbein told me he intended
to inauguarate a series of concerts also, the first
to take place on Good Friday, in the Masonic Hall.
Miss Christian has promised to come over
from Melbourne to assist him with them and
I feel perfectly satisfied that in Mr. Hueaer-
bein 3 hands they will be really first-class affairs
The men are planning all kinds of amusement for
their own dear selves during the Easter holidays,
but as yet I hear of no arrangements for us, so
I suppose we shall have to stay at home, make
hot-Gnws buns, and, worse still, eatthem. A p <rty
of gentlemen have chartered a steamer to take
them to Lord Howe’s Island, where they intend to
stay about 10 days, and enjoy themselves to their
heart s content. I quite envy them this trip, only
I think they will find it rather dull without any of
us with them, don’t you ? And, now good-bve.
machirie.
Yours as ever,
MAB.
CORRESPONDENCE
ICorretpondenU who oive neither name nor nowi-de-
Vlume cannot expect to have their com-
munication* notieed.l
“Landholder”: At present we are not in
a position to answer your questions about the pro-
posed new taxation. You may be certain, how-
ever, that the £3OO of income will be always de-
ducted from a man’s gross income whether he
have £3lO or £3OOO a year, and only the remain ;er
taxed, and also that the owner of land for which
he receives rent will not have to pay both taxes in
respect ot it. The land-tax will be levied on all
land held above the limit of £lOOO, but the value
for the purposes of taxation will not include any
houses or other improvements on the land. Thus
a vacant block in the city will pay the same amount
as land of equal value and area adjoining it,
although the latter may carry a store worth
£40,000...." C. Crawford”: What N.S.W. wants is
not a rabbit-proof fence but a lawyer-proof ience
to stop the attorneys running away with the
trust-funds ..." P. Corak”: We should say that
any man who had the choice would rather be deaf
than blind. Any married man would, anyhow —
"MacDonald”: We once knew a proud squatter
whose “ ancestral home ” consisted of an inverted
boat on the banks of the Clyde... “A. Clark ”: So
“31 gentlemen went to see the prize-fight.” Where
were the other nine?...." F.T.8.” (Bilverton): In-
dicative of ability, but not up to the mark
‘Doubtful One”: Don’t aocept. If he now
urges the discontinuance of "improvement” he
may hereafter taboo your bang, and debar you
from onions. A man who really loved a woman
would allow her to wear even a ciroular-saw
"H.P.M.D.”: Fair idea in crooked metre
"H.C.” (Brisbane): You may send a sample....
“H.H.C.”: Fear we could not use them..." G.Z.”:
True enough, but no u:e touching these points
unless with a steam-hammer.. ."W.8.”: You
wish to "give him a turn,” but we don t wish to
give him a cool £1000...." 8.F.5.”: Will probably
print both “W.JEt.” (Newcastle): You say you
are“Jak.” So are we—of screed like yours....
“Bushman”: Well-written, but lacks interest....
"Pedagogue”: Your former letter is before us,
and wo hope very Bhortly to deal with the subject
you mention. You are unfortunately right con-
cerning the Civil Service A ot, and we agree with
you that the tenor of the clause is most unjust.
Will deal with this in an early issue..,G H B.”*
Not this time....» L.V.A.: ” Send on the sketches
They will be judged on their merits “Sou-
dan”: We are sorry for the young “ladie bar-
made,” but oannot afford to slate “ the dood in
this weak’s Bullerteen.” Tell us, dear, is your
name Abigail ?...» Willensplegel Cannot say.bu*
appearances would lead us to the belief that he is
a quack. Glad of your criticiBm....»W. Cru-
den”: Thanks “A.R.L.”: You know as much
about the art of poetry as a wombat does
of the transit of Venus...» T. 1.”: Not much....
“G.L.”: Thanks. Undoubtedly Gordon’s. The
lines appeared as his in The Bulletin some years
ago....“ldiom”: Please ca11....“J.L.F.” (Torres
Straits): Thanks » C. 8.” (Paterson River):
Thanks— “E.B.F.”: Please ca 11... .“A poor
father of six sons ”: Judge Windeyer is
chancellor of Sydney University; he is vice-
chancellor. When the genial Judge got his de-
gree he was about the only graduate. The then
situation in fact reminds us of that at the Texas
University, where the faculty consisted of a father
and two sons. The sons conferred the title of
LL.D. on the old gentleman, who returned the
compliment by making each of his sons Ph. D...
“ C.R.S.”: The old story. » There are three things,”
once said a satirist, » whioh most people can never
forgive: First, the good which you have done
them; second, the evil which they have done you;
third, the evil that they have not been able to do
you.” “R.S.”: The cheaper a man is the more
he believes in titles....»M. Wade”: But how do
you account for ihe fact that the Sydney papers,
while they have received cablegrams as to the
Standard s warning to Royalty, have suppressed
all notice of the significant anti-monarchical de-
monstrations referred to in The Bulletin’s
leader of this week ?....»J. Henty Ray” (Goul.
burn): You who advocate capital punishment on
the ground that it is cheaper to hang a useless
man than to keep him would not be prevented by
any system of logic, of which we have cogni-
sance, from pole-axing your paralysed father, or
making sausages of your debilitated aunt
Harvey Blroh”: Excellent. Please send name
and address...." Medico ” (Clunes, Vio.): Thanks.
* Watson ”: Glanders is an incurable disease....
“Fazio”: Send us some more "W.W.8.”:
Despite the special pleading of the Argus, Mr.
Copeland uttered strong common sense both in
his speech and in his admirable letter to the Syd-
ney D.T. of Tuesday. The Argus, like yourself,
thinks, in the words of John Lemoinne, that God
Almighty is an Englishman “James Edwards ”;
We repeat that shipmasters and owners like Ger-
man seamen, because—melancholy fact I—they
are as a rule much more sober and amenable to
discipline than British merchant sailors. That’s
the whole question in a nutshell “R.J.W.”:
We think that now that Crooks and Wilson have
retired to gaol, some little attention should be
devoted by the bank shareholders to their easily-
gulled directors “C. Maxey”: Looks “fishy.’.
So does the fact that, although it is little more
than two years since the fabu'ously rich Mount
Morgan goldfield was proclaimed, yet the whole of
the documents and records relating to the first
taking up of the goldfield claims and leases have
mysteriously, aDd most conveniently for certain
persors, disappeared from the Mines Department,
and cirnot anywhere be found.
TAXIDERMY.
This name is from the Greek words, whioh signify
“ arrangment ” and “ skin,” so that the ancient
Greens, no doubt, regarded taxidermy as the
original skin game of the period. Taxidermy did
not flourish in the colonies prior to the year 1836.
At that time an Englishman named Skinner esta-
blished a museum and general repository for
upholstered beast. Since then the art has ad-
vanced quite rapidly. To taxiderm properly re-
quires a fine taste and close study of the subject
itself in life, akin to the requirements necessary
in order to succeed as a sculptor. I have seen
taxidermed animals that would not fool anybody.
I recall at this time especially a lion, stuffed after
death by a party who had not made this matter a
subject of close study. This lion was represented
in a crouching attitude with open jaws and red
gums. A s time passed on, and year succeeded year,
this lion continued to crouoh, his tail became less
rampant and drooped like a hired man on a hot day,
his gums became lees fiery red, and his reddish
skin huDg over his bones in a loose and distraught
manner, like an old robe thrown over the knees of
a vinegary old maid ; spiders spun their webs
across his dull white fangs; mice made their nests
in his abominable cavity; his glass eye became
hopeies ly strablemused; and the moths left him
bald-headed on the Btomach. He was a sad com-
mentary on the extremely transitory nature of all
things terrestrial and the hollowness of the Btuffed
beast. I also had a stuffed bird for a long time,
which showed the eunnlng of the stuffer to a great
degree. It afforded me a great deal of unalloyed
pleasure, because I liked to get old hunters to look
at it and tell me what kind of a bird it was. They
did not generally agree. A bitter and acrimonious
fight grew out of a disoussion.in relation to this bird.
A man from tVoolloomooloo named Lyons and a
party called soiled Murphy (since diseased) were
in my office one morning, Mr. Lyons, 0.K., and
Mr. Murphy, in his great specialty of drunk and
disorderly. I had just stepped aside to make a
cheque for flso 000, when the attention of Soiled
Murphy was attracted to the bird. He said it was
a common “ diver with an abnormal head,” while
Lyons claimed it was a “ wanhoo.” The bird had
a duck's body, the head of an owl, and the feet of
an emu. These parts had beenadjusted with great
oare and the tail loaded with lead, somehow, so
the head would not tip the bird up behind. With
this rara avis, to use a foreign term, I loved to
amuse and instruct old hunteiis (who had been
hunting all their lives for a free drink), and the
public generally, that the Direct Import Boot Co.
have opened their place of business at 408 George-
street, corner Sydney Aroade, where they mean
to build up an immense business, to secure which
they sell a single pair df boots or Bhoes at whole-
sale prices. A large variety of first-class goods to
select from, and something the publie have not
seen before. Remember, a single pair at whole-
sale rates means a great saving. The Direct
Import Boot Co., 408 George-street, corner Sydney
Aroade.*
If you are low-spirited take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mb. jib Ooubot Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Bou*h
Wales), Author of the** Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and *• Manual ol
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
62 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Everybody nowadays drinks Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
pURHITU* 1 1 MOW BOOMS
»*
|l^^UfllS FU wnn^?-?i ! D .i }ENTRB * ad SID
StiSSi 10 B^S^ B |. KOMTA “*3
SUITES, la iiXQUISIT a
taste, the very latest fashion • well wnwwVy
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. y 0
W A vht^wtbS5 holoe China, &o 7
NT,3UBtreceiTed * BnAl ey
°sm™ S ® B ?, UD ?t lß and Bow WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
tiY\T»r\r\v» " —■
SUITES complete In various woods
JL» and very handsome designs.with 7-iw?,
wardrobes, or with smaller wafdrobes for
jeoms. __Gr€at variety. BRADLEY. newWn
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney?
saffiajaMfßSAflHfs 4 '- °*
and
with
guineap
LAMB.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
■ T sR>?*~ Pl £® Tabl ea, from 10a~
r\ * Tables, from 20s. • Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. Cd.; Washstandsfrom 12s M*
Chest ofDrawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from*Bos*’
Cedar from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards’
TabfJf 3 C T? theS Hors ® 8 * from 10s. 6d.; Writing
A < from , *°»* BRADLEY
ffBWTON, k LAMB, Spring and O Connell streets
riAaoiOaia, *uamuioou „ oull '
v. , Bt r°ng, and durable, Trichord full
Case Pafl |’iS,« lG i+ e £fn al, brilliant tone, In handsome
w rall wharves foi cash only.
radley, Newton, and Lamb.
Compass C
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with 811 •
111 oak and Walnut, at all price
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table an -’
two chairs. Th@ lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
embroidery, Plush, &c.
jnHIPFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O OonneliHßtreet.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, fo
Wan and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
iorming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
S‘&-.Sta DLE ' ri *"■>
TVRA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS^
ifeLA* OK^L V 4 RI I !TY of NEW STYLES
Prices, from 12a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CS AIR B E D8IT!B AD S, forming CHAIR,
Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND
marble top, 80s tne pair.
iEIBLL »^J£J TB i! for DINING-ROOM —SIDB-
JD Board, dinner waggon, table
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAINS CARVI
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, aU to
matoh, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
ThINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to JO feet.
Self-adjusting hammock chair-
Patented.
TWa chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
When ft ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
fi B l£;£P T J £® TING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWO
DINING-ROOM FURNI
for
TURB
andsome and Massive
Oak
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets
k EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brat S
9 new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam b
at lowest rates,
-tf BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
Bell and Spring streets.
with marble, from 255. each
_ BRADLEY, NEWTON, and t.amb.
I ? nd BABK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustio
JLi Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Respite angry-looking weather last Satur-
day morning a large attendance showed up at
Rosehill meeting in the afternoon. For the Hurdle
Raoe, Raven was in command approaching the
last jump, when The Agent, with the crusher of
13st. 121 b., fairly wore him flown and won a great
race by a length. The April Handicap fell an easy
victory for Fuse, who won from start to finish;
and Ellington, at 6 to 4 on, fairly ran away with
the Belling Piate. For Rosehill Handicap, Lancer,
Rapid, and All Gold were most asked for, but the
winner turned up in the unthought of—except to
a very select few—Galatea, who defeated Dagobert
by something over a length. Cerise and Blue run-
ning into a place. Lord William finished the day s
sport by winning the Wycombe Stakes from
Cerise and Blue by a short neck, Bravo third.
After Cerise and Blue’s gallant effort in the handi-
cap with 'Jst. up. it really seemed a pity to ask the
mare to carry silk in the last race.
* * *
The second of the best two out of three
matches between the Sao and Assegai came off on
Saturday last over the Manly course. A soldier s
wind was the order of the day, and the Sao proved
the victor by lmin. 255e0., so the pair will meet
next Saturday for the final event over the outside
course. All things equal in gear and handling, we
believe the Sao to be the faster of the two, and we
fancy the test would bo a truer one were it “best
and best ”at the tillers. Were the doctor as good
a hand at the tiller as he is a thorough yachtsman
and lover of the sport, we would have very little
doubt with regard to the issue of next Saturday 8
race, but, unfortunately for the reputation of the
Sao, he is not so. The Fitzhardlnge family demon-
strated what handling will do when they won
races out of number with the old Ixion; later on,
with the Adelphi; and more recently with the
jury-rigged Electra.
• • »
Last season the M.R.C. had the field all to
themselves in the matter of their club-racing
skiff, but there are now three skiffs in the harbour
which equal in speed, if they do not excel, the
notorious M.R.C. skiff of last season. The B.R C.
have now a flyer from the shed of Donnelly and
Bull!van; the Woolloomooloo Club have a craft
from the same builders, which, by all accounts,
should be even faster than the S.R C.’s, and the
latest addition to the Glebe R.C. fleet is from the
hands of Harry Floyd, a N.Z. builder, now located
at Donnelly's old shed, Glebe Point. She has a
regular wager-boat bottom, is finished and fitted
in first-class style, and, so far as appearances go,
should prove a flyer. Taking this skiff as a
criterion, Floyd is an acquisition to Sydney
builders, for, with a little wholesome competition,
clubs may not think it necessary to send to Mel-
bourne for their boats, as we understand the Uni-
versity is doing.
• ■ •
“ Professor ” Jackson took bis benefit at
Foley’s on Saturday evening, wnen, as we antici-
pated, his pupilsput in a merry evening. Amongst
other sets-to O’Donnell showed some pretty play
with Moncur. Dan. Hickey showed some science
In his three exhibited rounds with the massively-
built Donoghue; and M'Carthy and Smith followed
with a ding-dong three rounds, Smith proving the
receiver-general, but only on sufferance, as we
understand he has a nasty habit of putting his
man to sleeo when “on the job.” Tom Taylor
and a heavy-weight then had a lively three
rounds, which were in favour of the heavy-
weight, who lacked “ kip,” but had a big say over
Taylor in the matter of reach and weight. The
bencfleiaire , as we say in theNoozE, wound up the
proceedings with a puDil, who, with a confidence
born in the knowledge that the “ Professor ”
would “go light," made play, and a lively three
rounds ensued. By the way, we notice that one
of tne Sunday papers said the wrestling bout at
Jackson’s show did not prove very Interesting.
This is much to be wondered at, taking into con-
sideration the fact that the wrestling match down
on the programme did not come off.
- •# * *
We understand that Jack Hall, the well-
known light-weight, has been matched to meet
Ted Seymour next Saturday night at Foley’s Hall,
In a Queensberry contest. Both scientific, quick
fighters, a first-rate display may bo anticipated.
Cnampion Foley starts next Wednesday on a flying
trip to Brisbane.
* *
The Sydney University cricketers had
quite a pleasant outing on Saturday laßt, when
tney journeyed to Parramatta to meet the local
Alfreds. The Parramatta men went to the wickets
and stayed there the whole afternoon, making 245
runs for the loss of 4 wiokets.
* * *
Notwithstanding the gush ladled out over
the Governor’s visit to Bathurst, we have not seen
it chronicled in any of the papers, Sydney or pro-
vincial, amongst their “ fashionable movements ”
the fact that Jack Hall, Jimmy Lawson, and the
two Powells were in the City of the Plains during
the late festive season. The quartette went up on
the show business, boxing amongst themselves,
and inviting any gentleman in tne audience who
fancied himself at.the business to try a deal. Baron
Bob, of course, created a favourable impression
on the yokels, but Jimmy Lawson created an im-
pression on some of them that will be green—and
blaok—when Baron Bob is again hob-nobbing with
the gay young Bertie.
* v *
The return matoh between teams from the
offices of The Bulletin and Daily Telegraph
resulted in a win for ttfe former, for whom Mr.
W. H, Traill topsoored with 23 runs, Flick being
next with 2D in one inniDgs and 17 in the other,
andT.Traiil and Flick shared the bowling honours
for the same team. Mr. Shepherd made 49 for the
Telegraph, J. Jones being next with 15. Several
alleged bats on both sides proved the pen to be
mightier than the cricket-bat, by scoring the in-
glorious “ duck.”
* * *
The Yankee papers appear to be under a
misapprehension with regard to Richard Mathews,
the boxer. A N.Y. journal says he defeated every
fighter he met in Australia; but, as a matter of
tact, he thought fit to leave Australian boxers
alone (except when Peter Jackson knocked him
out in a trial set-to), and confined his attention to
New Zealand bruisers. On February 26 he en-
gaged ,n his first-glove fight since his return to the
States, when he met, at ’Frisco, a heavy-weight
named LaDge. Lange is a rushing fighter, and
stood no show with Mathews, who countered
heavily and knocked him out in six rounds, much
to the disgust of the onlookers, who thought Lange
could have made a longer thing of it had he not
shown the white feather. Mathews is now matched
to light Jack Brady for “the championship of the
Pacific Coast and a purse of £100," to come off in
Private, with hard gloves.
• * *
Jem Maoe, who stood referee in the recent
>j>mith-Greenfleld fight, has opened a saloon in
nondon, and is said to be doing a thriving business.
Jem has too often thriven.
* m m
A Yankee paper states Wallace Ross was
jv?™£ to challenge Neil Matterson to a race for
*lOOO aside.
* * *
The 2500-mile walk, which Daniel O’Leary
mid Edward Payson Weston began at Newark,
«-J., December 7, 1885, ended at Cnicago on Feb-
ruary 6, 1886, Weston winning. On February 4,
Hhcary, who had tho lead up to February 3, re-
tired, and E. P. Weston finished his 2500 in 54 days.
* * *
Says a N.Y. paper Edward Hanlan
ecai ve( j the following letter irom Sydney, on
jejraaty 3: Dear Sir,—l cannot regain from
"^“5 e8 Bing a few lints to you exorefsing my deep
nU~P R thy with you in your recent match with
«iS.? er ' I have read fully a dozen different one-
stop!! a< s Cou Qts of the raoe, and firmly believe, in-
dent,** abuse and other cowardly assertions, you
°serve the aid and open hand of every unbiassed
and honest man* if not the respect which is always
due to a man beaten under the adverse and try-
ing ciroumstances that you were. As far as what
little I have seen and heard, I do not believe in
the face of the past blameless record that you can
show, second to none in the world, that a single
impartial Australian is to be found who will credit
the baseless and lying assertions so unmanly and
despicably hurled at a man of your uncommon
and rare character. It fulfils the old saying of
“My greatest sin is failure.” Dear sir, I have
been steadfastly, even before your renowned
match with Trickett in 1880, one of your earliest
Australian admirers and ardent supporters, and
have had many a hard-worded argument in your
favour, and I am happy to say that a few of for-
tune’s frowns will not suffice to turn my back on
one of such rare talent and nature as you are
possessed of. In conclusion, hoping I have not in-
truded upon your privacy, or reminded you of un-
pleasant things, I may say that, though not a
single person in Australia felt your defeat by
Beach more keenly than I did, still I live in the
hope of seeing you once more champion —I am,
yours, &c., Jambs MTntosh.’” What a pretty
little letter the confiding Mr. M'lntosh indites I
The “dear sir” jis lovely, and as to the “hope”
expressed by the ingenuous James that he has not
intruded upon the aristocratic privacy of the inno-
oentand dove-like Mr. Edward Hanlan—why, it
makes us feel at once that the ex-champion’s
sympathetic correspondent ought to be a raember
of the s.M. Herald staff.
• * *
“The recent Murrurundi racing meet does
not appear to have given that proverbial “ plea-
sure to all ” which constitutes the bulk of the
Market s reet millennium. The jockey Tory was
accused of riding the mare Beatrix With a “ heavy
rein” so as to let Blue Gown scoop the pool, but
the trick appears to have been clumsily performed
as the pair made a dead heat of the run home.
The result was Mr. Tory received a wigging
(country-fed humour this), and was also treated to
a 12 months’ disqualification in which the mare
joins. Touching the settling, the Murrurundi and
Quirindi Times pen-jostler appears to be baoly
gravelled, as ho bitterly complains that, though
“ over 200 sovs. were distributed amongst six win-
ners, on Thursday night, only £3 was thrown in
for the customary ‘ flz.’ All lovers of sport will
regret the absence of the true sporting spirit on
this occasion, but perhaps tne determination of
the stewards to punish all swindlers was the cause
of the winners’ refusal to ‘part’ with anything
like generosity.” Only £3 worth of the true
sporting spirit among so many! No wonder the
Times tipster howled.
• * *
Neil Matterson wrote the Yankee papers
that it was bis intention to visit America and row
Hanlan, Teemer, or any man they can raise. By
cable we learn that Matterson has challenged
Beach for a second shy for the championship, aad
that Mr. Edward Hanlan has also thrown out a
defl for a £5OO match on the Thames.
* * *
English papers announce the death of W.
Perkins, regarded as the fastest walker who ever
yet put on shoes. In contrast to the majority of
walkers, so-called, Perkins was an undeniably fair
heel-and-toe man, and his style was particularly
taking. He was but a shooting star in the heavens
of pedestrianism, and can hardly be said to have
adorned his profession from a social point of view.
Of late years Perkins—fat and knocked out-
picked up a precarious living about racecourses.
• * *
It was in 1824 that America first raised a
trotter to cover a mile in 2mia. 403ec. In the mean-
time, by improved breeding and training, they
have knocked off something over half a minute.
* * *
England has at last got, in Smith, Green-
field’s victor, a pugilist who may worthily face
Sullivan, with whom Smith s supporters are will-
ing to make a match for £3OOO. In one band te
can be backed for £2OOO, and in another for £lOOO,
so that the Yankee will have no cause to grumble
at the poverty of the stakes. A timber-porter by
trade. Smith is one of the most powerlully-built
men yet seen. He is beautifully made from bead
to heel, big enough to compete with any man, hut
in no way clumsy. He is a terrific hitter, and has
good science, and to these qualities may be added
the possession of a good temper. Furthermore,
he can stand any amount of punishment, and takes
his gruel without the sembJance of flinching.
Smith who is but 23 years of ago, weighs i2st. 11 b.
in condition. So that we may soon have a repeti-
tion of the great Sayers- Heenan contest.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
886 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERT
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pfift-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ff
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werftheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANT LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
C-xoat I
G-reat I
<3-xeat -A-ttractioxx I
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE.
Jones, Lawson Bros,, and Co.,
Practical Cabinet Makers and Upholsterers,
39 GASTLEREAGH-STREE7,
Near Hunter-street.
The large and spacious warehouse is close to the Hunter-street Tram-station.
THE SHOW-ROOMS ARE LARGE AND WELL LIGHTED.
THE STOCK COMPRISES
Cabinet and Upholstered Furniture*
Bedsteads and Bedding*
Brussels’ Carpets* Wilton Carpets*
Tapestry Carpels* Linoleums*
Floorcloths* Curtains*
and Table Covers.
11l Eid: Art Marked in Plain Fima
AT
LOWEST CASH PEICES.
YISIT
THE NEW FURNITURE and CARPET WAREHOUSE*
39 C ASTLEREAGH-STREET,
(Near » unter-strcet).
ON THE
!Bxicls:±s.elcsL Hill.
01 STAY MO COSSET EEPARTMEKT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree oe Charge.
/ e
C D
'
/'■fr
i
L
\
n
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays /
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),.
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d„ 6s, 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s.«S.,&as fid
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS. 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate end at;refill attention#


Charles Stuart Parnell is a lineal descend-
ant, In the 15th generation, of Richard Nbvill, Earl
of Warwick, “ the King Maker.” Mr. Parnell,
Earl gpeneer, and the Marquis of Hartlngton are
ood cousins, Parnell and spencer being descend-
ants in the seventh and Hartington in the eighth
generation of John Mordaunt, Visoount Avalon.
Here’s an official chunk from the sweet
memories of the golden past:—“New South Wales,
Bathurst, to wit.—Eliza Elizabeth Brooks, per
ship Mary, 7 years, 1836, brought before the court,
cbarged with drunkenness and absconding. Mr.
George Kable, being sworn, saith:— ‘ The prisoner
is my assigned servant, and on Saturday evening
last the prisoner absconded from my service; I
pursued her, and found her near to Mrs. Dillon’s
public-house in a drunken state, when I gave her
.f/tLIA 1/
1
\' \riV
Pe/vtKoff
A fMSSiW
-Toff
Mis*
M'or
A \
' N
s
£v(frv Solomon;| # all-his-
my as- not uiKe ®xe <?i=7^e<£
A Jwtwt >
&*■
into custody.—Geo. Kablb.’ B worn betore u 3 at
Bathurst. 7th March, 1836. Thos. Event)bn, J.P.,
Supert. Police; Geo. kanken, J.P. t’eufcence: To
be confined in the cells on bread and water for It
days, heat shaved, aad to be returned to Govern-
ment.” “Head shaved,” eh 1 Tne Solons of our
early days knew how to make Eliza ait up.
We (that is to say the Australian public)
may all be in gaol one day. It is ss well, there-
fore, to know howto sleep on bare boards. The
weight of your body rests enlirely upon your
shoulders and hip joints. Wrap, therefore, a coat
around your shoulders, another garment around
your loins, put your waistcoat in your hat for a
pillow, and you will be able to sleep without
waking at midnight with aching bones. This
advice should especially interest the clergy, who
mostly wear soft hate.
If a prize for high-clues imbecility were
offered it would luT won hands-down by
someone In the Bydney Public Idbrars, In
the annual report of the Reference Branch,
the sapient trustees carefully note that “ the
books stolen are not costly, and of no parti-
cular interest, and they appear to have been taken
for private use by young persons of short experi-
ence and low principle to help in their business or
profession.” Dogberry himself couldn’t improve
upon thejforegoing. If the books referred to are
of no particular interest, why in thunder were
they selected at the public expense for the Refer-
ence Library ? And, unless the young persons of
short experience happened to be in the fried-fish,
or hot-saveloy line, of what earthly use could
such works be to help them In their business or
profession ?
The dear old Dean of Melbourne—long
life to him!—has sent, his archdeacons a letter on
the subject of prayer for rain. The departed
Biabop.lt will bi remembered, held an opin’on
that the Almighty didn't ehseto be bothered about
these matters, and was, in a general way, loth to
interfere in the arrangements of the universe.
Now the Dean, fully persuaded that you can get
anything by only praying hard enough for it, is
yet mindful of the fact that a colonial diocese
covers a good deal of grouad. There are places,
says the Dean, where rain has been superabundant,
and as it seems rough that a parson, whose kitchen
Garden is already half-tlooded, should be requested
o ask the Loard for an extra supply of his bountiful
showers, the Dean thinks “ it is better on the pre-
sent occasion that the clergy be guided by their
own judgment, rather than that they should re-
ceive any general directions on the subject.” This
wljl take a weight off the mbids of those lucky
divines whose small eahbages are already coming
on nioely. .
A “Hew Chum Lady” writes us:— “Editor
Bulletin,—Two things puzzle me much In
Sydney, and they are—firstly, the fact that in
tolerably decent-looking suburban streets, where
rents are dear, many of the inhabitants shame-
lessly hang out towels, and so on, to dry on their
balcony-Tailings; and, secondly, the queer habits
of the restaurant authorities. The other after-
noon at about 3 o’c’ock, I went into a very
swagger eating-piace to appease the cravings of
the inner woman, and found that there wasn’t a
soul in the big room except a well-dressed and
well-nourished attendant, wno, as I entered, was
oalmly scratching his whiskers—and his spinal
column—with a long ham-knife taken from the
buffet whereon reposed the mid-day viands of the
establishment. What can one do with such
people?” [Go out, madam, murmuring, “God
bless the Duse of Argyll.”—Ed. B.]
At Monaoo has just died Major Murray,
who, a quarter of a century ago was, as a hero of
melodrama, the nine days’ wonder of London,
He fought with a bill-broker in Northumberland-
street, not for his money, but for his life, the best
part of a morning. His adversary invited him to
his lodgings on pretence of business, and shot him
with a pistol (not a revolver) through the neck.
The bill-broker was a jealous rival of his, without
the major's knowledge. He thought he hid done
for him, but the major, “ tough ” as Joey 8., re-
vived, and went for him. They fought with every-
thing that they could lay their bands upon; but
at last the bill-broker was finished off by a botWe
of champagne administered externally. What a
rough-and-tumble It muet have been I The room
was described as “ swimming in blood.” And all
Sis in the morning, and looking on a public
oroughfare. The major himself was tried for
murder, but, of course, acquitted.
The Irish financial grievance. In 1841, the
Imperial revenue raised in Ireland, with a popu-
lation of nearly nine millions, was £3 907,238. The
Irish revenue raised in 1881 with a population of
five millions, was to £7,733,000. In 1841 the inci-
dence of taxation per head of population was 9j.
61.; in 1851 it was 12j. 61.; in 1861 it had risen to
£l2s. Id.; while in 1871 it had been forced up to
its present figure, £163 24. Thus, in 30 years, the
Imperial taxation of Ireland increased nearly 260 per
eent., the population having, in the same period,
fallen nearly 35 per cent. But in England, during
the corresponding period, Imperial taxation only
Increased about 17 per oent, wbiob was so far lea*
than the increase of population that taxation was
3s. 3d. per head less In Great Britain in 1881 than in
1861. In England the duty on the popular bever-
age, beer, has been reduced to less than what it
stood at before 1853; in Ireland the duty on the
popular beverage, whisky, has been increased
fourfold.
Mind you get Wolfe's Schnapps.
No matter what your feeling or ailment
i«, American Co.'s Hop Bitters will do you good.
Prove it and see
For a torpid liver take Wolfe's Schnapps


Bray «§& Hi iolitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
I Hi. LATUT WORKS AMO PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS fox BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies, gcajj
The LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
9$
dfg
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
■ Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application,
#
aefreshinfe
Genuine
Economical
Cocoa
Makers to the Queen
sdfg
sd
fgs
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil &
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &e., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweat as cream; very palatable and most nouris h ing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Botli the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most perfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only One of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers SNurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of tliesolids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces so necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk, alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD" is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient fo- use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. L
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO. T.TMITED. LONDON
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITT AGON G.
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MUH PHY, Propri«tor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
t»“ THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED/,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsS EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UP WARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 1 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager. '
f *\»
lEBIG
dfg
UTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND-
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE $
REJECTED, AT ALL CHEMIST S IM
«&&&. 1020 ozBOTTLES
C ARNOLD BBRIDCE S t
ROWLAND 3’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non gri ty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
has lately been much improved. Bach box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood. Ph D , F.C.S , &e. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MAKASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for f»ir or golden haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
ni HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer lor Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
Gr
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 mnn
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
HF" Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation lor 12
/ears, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£K LADY’S BALE.
® Ladies’ Chemises
® pairs Drawers
f Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nioely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
S’^ppliedto 111 inBtruotlon for self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the oelebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths#n
this country are either directly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they kpow of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, are among the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no symptoms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinal
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Lirer
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debil-ity, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING- COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South. Wales and Queensland,
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by oompetent
literary man or long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
[JJOODU'OTHSViaOUJfi’g,
MorIT
IKNeKopUUF]
rotfs
THERE are many men in this eolony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiseretlon
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the Sa-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case ean
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Knioylng Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief,and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, whioh
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 13s, or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & GO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the eolony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
/
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINI
cures All pain.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM
* URALGIAy HEADACHE, TOOTHACIE
RAINS, BRUISESIURNS„ SCALD 1, &c ftnc
aken internally cures DXARRMCEA, D YSEA... jry
SRAMPS, COLIC* and all other interns achei
,nd pains. _
IPrice, ££/” Sold Everywher®,
& £ MOULTON, SOLE PROP! I "3h„
ALND o'.DNEY.
PAINT


MUCH STRANGER STORIES.
Magna veritas eat et prevalebtt.
For the idea of this column we are indebted to
the Sydney Echo, a penny paper, which contains
much interesting and original matter in the
advertisement columns, and selected fiction,
which is usually to be found under the
head of “ Cablegrams-From our Special Cor-
respondent.” With a view of galvanising the
paper to some extent, a page has been recently
devoted to “ Strange Stories” written by occasional
contributors and warranted by them as correct.
With grateful alacrity we adopt the idea. Contri-
butions forwarded to this paper for insertion in
the “ Much Stranger Stories ” column, must, in
accordance with the Echo rule, bear the signa"
ture and address of the writer, a copy of his bap"
tismal certificate—and his receipt for last year’s
water-rates should be attached to the screed, which
latter must be attested by a sober church-warden
0 r a respectable justice of the peace. Of the
stories received to date in accordance with these
conditions we select as first in point of merit.
THROUGH PERILOUS PLACES:
A Tale of my Unnatural Life,
BY
MUNCHAUSEN HARPER
I have read somewhere that fact is stranger than
fiction. Before half my story is told it will be seen
that fiction is stranger than fact. I have met
with many adventures, so much so that when I
asked the local bellman for his beautiful daughter,
he said I was a “ mere adventurer.” Often when
describing my perils ” at local
pubs, have asked me “if I was any way related
to Skuthorpe,” and quite recently one man came
up and shook hands with me when I had finished
my story, and said in an evidently sincere man-
ner, " I like you, I do. Oh, yes, I like you, because
you are such a liar.” It was not the words
that I disliked, but I hate to hear a man put so
much emphasis on an adjective. It is a distinct dis
advantage to one to have so many marvellous
escapes as I have had. He must tell people about
them, and then sooner or later some malicious
person is bound to nip him, on the verdict of a
prejudiced jury, for perjury or something, as I—
but that is my story. I will begin at the beginning.
Sheba 81umkins was at once my rapture and
my ruin. She was one of twins-a boy and a girl.
They broke the news to her father gradually,
telling him of his daugliter first. When he heard of
the son he said the girl should be called “Sheba,”
because “ the half was not held him.” I first met
her at a hall held in the woolshed of Fer-
tile Plains Station. The station was called by
that name because the cows, aided by the brand-
ing-irons, were said to average three calves each
yearly. Strangely enough, the adjoining runs could
only muster an average of one calf to four cows
at branding time. I was in search of a wife when
Ip f t Stieba, for it seemed to me that a strong
woman and a mangle could earn a lot of money in
Gornbungyah at that time. As we danced I
noticed that her .arms were suited to such light
labours. So were her hands. Further, I observed
that she wore a very short dress, a proof of her
economy, and at supper, by pocketing three
custard tarts and a jelly, she convinced me that
■he was able to look out for her herself. My love
was not of a mercenary order. I loved her for
herself alone—especially her arms. But her
father was perverse and oensorious. He sprang
the mangle-racket on me, and said that such work
was beneath the dignity of the daughter of the
bellman of Gornbungyah. I pleaded the high posi-
tion my father had achieved (he was night-watch-
man in a Fire Brigade Tower), but this did not
move him. It was I that had to move. With my
usual readiness to oblige, I moved with alacrity,
the bellman waving adieu with his copper-toed
number nineteens as I crossed the threshold. Bat
my triumph was planned. Sheba was fond of
Kangarooin’ (and also of blue-rooin—gin you
know), our usual amusement on Sunday when
there was no service at the churches. We would
meet in the hunt, and then elope I We went. About
midday an enormous doe kangaroo, with a big
young one in her pouch, started just ahead of our
party. I was riding a big horse which I called
Silverscrip, because he used to fall sometimes
very suddenly, and rise again very slowly. He
was very fresh, so was Sheba, (she carried rum,)
and we had purposely been reserving our horses
for the opportunity. Soon we left the others far
behind, but still sped on side by side in pursuit of
the marsupial. Suddenly Sheba uttered a more
forcible than eloquent monosyllable, and her
bridle hung loose from the choke-strap down.
(The choke-strap generally hangs, or at least it did
so with the immediate ancestors of some of our
first families ) “ What’s up?” I enquired, with the
brevity the situation demanded; “Has your bit
come in half?” “ You bet,” was her reply, “come
in half, and yet doubled, for it is now two bits.”
There was too much gravity in our situation to
admit of such levity, for her horse had bolted, and
she stood, or to speak more accurately sat, in im-
minent danger of losing her head in contact with
a tree, for the horse had now completely got his.
As his bridle had broken he seemed determined to
prevent ours. To secure her safety I tried a plan
recommended in Vanity Fair for adoption in a
similar case. Riding close along the bolting horse
I tried to place my left arm in the dear old fashion
round Sheba’s waist. It must have been the jolt-
ing that did it, for instead of gripping her as
intended my arm seems to have gone
round the horse where the girths are slung,
so that when I tried to lift my heart’s
delight (as directed by the Vanity Fair
man) on to my saddle, I lifted her horse up as well■
This mistake complicated matters somewhat. I
could not let her horse fall without dropping
Sheba as well, and to guide my steed and keep the
double burden steady was a task almost beyond
my power. It wearied me to do it Silverscrip
finally precipitated affairs by falling down. We
all fell in a heap - Sheba first, then the two horses,
and myself on top of the pile. I had no time to
sort them out, for the enraged kangaroo, hav-
ing killed the dogs, was coming towards us with
terrific leaps, and an apparent determination to
do damage to someone. Hastily putting Sheba’s
watoh, loose change, and ilask in my pocket, I
prepared to s; 11 my life to the kangaroo at the
highest possible price, terms cash, in consequence
of the owner departing for another land. But
here again my presence of mind stood me In good
stead. I noticed that my assailant had thrown out
her young one. This was my salvation. As the
huge beast rose for the last jump towards me, I
rose too; we met in the air, and I, in accordance
with my pre-arranged plan, Jumped into her pouch!
She was euchred, and I scored for a march. In
this singular position I lived for several days.
My foster-mother seemed to take to me kindly
enough and supplied me with abundance of food_
But I rapidly grew weary of milk diet, more espe-
cially as there never was any rum in it, and so took
an early opportunity of escaping. After some
trouble I regained the horses and started with
them for the Queensland border. Sheba was dead,
why should Igo back to Gornbungyah ? No, I
would go away from everything that reminded me
of a vanished vision of bliss. Plunged in an abyss
of sorrowful memories I forgot to send back the
bellman’s horse, and this little oversight was the
cause of my arrest as 1 was speeding from my sor-
row, and N.S.W. lam almost ashamed to confess
that men were less kind to me than the brutes had
been. “ Man’s inhumanity to man make countless
thousands ”go to gaol. That’s where they put
me, charged with the murder of Sheba, the
theft of her change, ditto of the bellman’s
horse, and several other crimes which do
not at present occur to me. I told the
jury my story, but the newspapers reported
“laughter,” and “continued laughter” after
every sentence of my defence. I tried to show the
judge how the accident happened, but he only
laughed. I told him how I had lived on the
kangaroo, and with brutal wit he said that he bad
understood from the prosecution that I had only
been “on the wallaby.” Then I told the court that I
had omitted to return to Gornbungyah, in the for-
getfulness of grief, and that the reason of my
travelling by night was that I dreaded snakes—
“ and green dogs and blue devils, too, I suppose ’*
said the wholesome-fun man with the loDg wig.
Then they found me guilcy on all the charges, and
sentenced me to be hanged and to suffer 137 years
imprisonment and two floggings. Ido not think it
likely that I shall last out my sentence.
P.S.—I was hung last week; there was nothing
noteworthy about the ceremony. My story is a
sad one, my only consolation being that I leave
no one behind me who will trouble to sing my
epitaph in the Herald at sixpence a line to the
tune of the time-honoured j'ngle, “Dearest Willie,
how we miss thee.” 1 am a bit lonesome here,
but some British army-contractors are expected
shortly. Farewell.
A [?]il Suggestion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The lances for the use of the Sydney
Lancers have arrived from E gland.”— Daily
Paper.
At last our Lancers larcars are indeed,
Though base detractors still the title would
refuse them;
No longer they their proper weapons need,
They’ve got them, though perhaps they don’t
know how to use them.
And now that they’re so gorgeously arrayed
And in their dress resemble so their English
brothers,
Some effort to be like them should be made,
Not in the way of dress alone, but in some
others.
See Linsey Woolsey strutting through the town!
And look—the fellow cannot even strut erectly;
His legs are tying knots, his head bent down—
Surely he’ll come a cropper on his nose directly I
Fitz-Bullock’s smarter on his legs and feet,
And, being country-bred, can ride to admiration;
But can’t address a lady if they meet,
And lacks entirely any decent education.
One cannot speak three words without an oath,
Another never tempers drinking with discretion;
And of these gentlemanly habits, both
Enhance the charms of number three in the pro-
cession.
But they have gentlemen in word and deed,
Assailable by no stern critic’s just detraction;
Worthy a troop of gentlemen to lead,
Courteous in speech, obeying honour’s laws in
action.
Theirs is the type to teach our would-be swells
To cultivate the grace they may possess innately:
There is the lesson—they must learn it well
Before they claim the name they covet now so
greatly.
The most are not well-born; but never mind—
That doesn’t matter here, far from the old world’s
border,
And probably their pockets are not lined
So well as those of England’s too-rich, favoured
order.
But they can be the equals of the best
Of these, if only they emblazon on their banners
(And keep the promise thus they make) a crest
Whose motto bears the words—“ Drill, Modesty—
and Manners.”
Jacob Garrard, Francis Abigail, John
Cash Neild, and W. Henson, M’a.L A,, were amcrg
the Orangemen who welcomed "tne Escaped Nun,’
Edith O’Qorman Awful, to Sydney.
The Duke of Cambridge has delivered a
jeremiad as to the difficulty of getting a constant
supply of young officers for the military service.
The energy is dying out of Engiand’s historic
nobility. Of yore, the eldest son bein»r settled on
the paternal estate, the second marched bravely
into the service of the. God of War, and the third
(and if the first or second son of a coroneted dad
was not a fool, the third was bound to be one)
crept meekly into the service of the God of Peace.
Both services are now shunned. Both gods want
too much work for the noble scions of to-day. All
they are becoming lit for now is to lie back, fillip
their souls with absinthe, and wait for some Aus-
tralian or Yankee girl whose father made a mil-
lion out of tallow or wool to come along and marry
them for blood.
A Thargomindah (Q ) man, one Brown, got
'‘cutout” by a maimed man who has a wife in
Victoria. Brown at once decided that earth was no
longer his home. He bought two shillings’ worth
of laudanum, sat down and wrote, “Farewell all.
When you see this the hand that pens it will be
laid in the cold, cold gr .” Here the wretched
man seized the bottle, took one gulp, and lay down
to pray. Friend watching him, slipped a bottle of
kerosene in the place of the other. When Brown
judged he had squared things with the Celestial
authorities, he went for the remainder of the
bottle—
“ He looked from sea to sky and plain
As at what he ne’er might see again.”
and —. Half-hour afterwards, kind friend (ioq ):
“Well, dear old fellow, how do you feel? ” Brown I
• Don’t talk of it—for Heaven’s sake stick a wick
in my mouth, and light it so that I can see where
I’m going.”
Extract from the letter of an aristocratio
English new-ohum now gaining colonial experi-
ence in the Cook Country, N.Q. “There is no end
of sport up here. The bush is full of game; the
rivers are alive with fish, and the back country is
fairly swarming with niggers. The number of
carcases of the latter which are sold to the mill-
proprietors for engine-fuel is no criterion of the
number actually killed. Many people hunt them
just for the sake of the sport alone. We bagged
15 full grown males, seven gins, and half-a-dozen
picannies on Sunday last.” The Home Missionary
Society should secure that traveller on his return
to pious England. He’d fill Exeter Hall every
night for a month, and the coin would rattle into
the plates like hailstones on a bald head.
The Indian and Colonial Exhibition has
been the cause of waking the Calliope (Q.) gold-
field from a long deep slumber. Most of those
who dug the yellow metal from the coarse drift in
the once bustling little to wn of Gladstone went to
sleep soon after the Calliope was tucked in. They
will not awake, anyhow, until the Great Exhibi-
tion of all. This is how Calliope was roused. The
commissioners wrote for specimens of auriferous
alluvial washdirt to Henry Friend, of Gladstone,
who at once set men to work in Nuggetty Gully,
an old abandoned spot. In sinking they came on
a nugget weighing and on a trial washing
a small quantity of dirt gave 7dwt. of coarse
shotty gold. The news brought diggers on horse-
back and fo„t. They tiokled the ribs of the old
goldfield, and sang the songs of yore. But Cal-
liope turned over and went asleep again.
Mayor Young, of Sydney, has ordered
that any Corporation official whose salary is “at-
tached” ia to be dismissed. Should such an edict
be enforced in the Civil service also there’ll be a
greater reduction in the ranks than was ever
dreamt of even by the moat rabid advocate for
retrenchment. As a check to the borrowing pro-
pensities of our impecunious officials, however*
the proclamation is simply useless. Messrs.
Shkinemcioze Schuttdown and Co. will still find
the “ready,” but teck on another shixty per
shent for the “ extra risk.” In one department a
similar rule has been in force for the past year,
and is productive of the greatest good to the—
Chosen People. Mayor Young has the best of in-
tentions, no doubt, but he's only finding additional
plunder for a set of hawks, one of whose number
—his name is a household word in Sydney— not
long since sold out a widow’s scanty furniture
while her husband was lying dead in their home.
“ Volapuk,” the new “ universal lan-
guage,” which you can learn in half-a-dozen les-
sons, has already thousands of devotees. Last
summer representatives (from all European coun_
ties) of 30 Volapuk societies, met in council at
Fredrichshaffen and voted the creation of an
academy. The new language is a clever, useful
discovery. Its founder, M. Schleyer, spent 30
years in evolving it, and the result is a marvel of
simplicity. But the latter quality could hardly be
looked for in a vocabulary borrowed from the
various European tongues. For instance, the
Volapuk for wisdom is sap, from the Latin
sapere; people is pop, from populus; moon, mun,
from the English moon or the German mond;
meat, mat, from English meat, &o. The syntax is
comprised in four pages, and the following is an
llustration of the method of conjugating Vola-
puk verbs. The personal pronoun I, thou, he,
&c, being expressed by the words oh, 01, om;
plural, obs, ols, oms. We have for the present tense
of the verb tik, from the English think :—tikob, I
think; tikol, thou thinkest; tikom, he thinks;
tikobs, we think; tikols, you think; tikoms, they
think. By prefixing the vowels, a, e, i, o, u, we
have the different tenses thus:— Atikob, I thought,
etikob, I have thought, &c. Adjectives follow the
noun, and adverbs the verb; there is no gender.
In a word, the fundamental rules can be acquired
in a few hours, and as to the vocabulary, all the
beginner requires is the Volapuk dictionary
to his mother tongue, which is easy to get.
I
A Terrible Skin Disease.
I have tried for eleven years to have my wife
cured of a terrible skin disease. The Cuticuba
Remedies (Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood
purifier, internally, and Cuticuba the great skin
cure, and Cuticuba Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifler, externally) have done in six wreeks what I
have tried for eleven years to have done. You shall
have the paiticulars as soon as I can give them to
you, and as wo are so well known in this part of
the country, it wili benefit you, and the remedies
ill cure ail who use them. CHAB. H. WHITE,
Maysville, Ky.
DO NOT BE DISCOIJRAGED.
Even if you have tried many remedies for your
kidney disease or liver complaint without success
it is no reason why you should think your disorder
incurable. The most intractable casts readily yield
co the potent virtues of Dr. Bell’s Bittbrs. It is a
purely vegetable compound, which acts on the
kidneys, liver and bowels at the same time, and
thus cleanses the whole system. Don’t wait, but
get a bottle to-day and cure yourself.*
A CLEVER CHILD.
A little boy was told that he must never ask for
anything at the table, as it was not good manners
to do so. The consequence was that he was fre-
quently overlooked. One day his father said,
• Johnny, bring me a bottle of the Anheuset Busch
fit Louis Lager Beer and a clean plate.” ‘’Take my
plate, pa; it is clean;” and he added, with a sigh,
‘‘there has not been anything on it yet.”—
If you are a business man take Wolfe’s
Schnapps occasionally to keep your mental facul-
ies in good order.
Remember American Co.’s Hop bitters
never does harm but good, to the smallest child,
always and continually. See and read
Our Western people are liable to be laid
low by malarial lever when breaking up new lands.
The folks in the East are also complaining of
fevers, chills, and agues, arising irom decaying
vegetable matter and imperfect drainage. Fur
either East or West, the best remedy is Ayer’s
Ague Cure
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
JBrated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
If you wish to establish a name for your
house, sell the best brands— Wolee's Schnapps
stands foremost.


MAR
Pof ®TOUT.—This favourite 6»^
aSL 5? ta r
xZ'i or the “hr.^iF cte<l Y lth great care from. ta
Arthu ? Qu)nn^r Ings °r the celebrated firm cf
an !l Co 't Dublin, and thereto e
To be procured vverywttn* .
Bol* Agents.
I*EAPES & SHAW
are now opening (almost daily)
novelties
for the
Broaching autumn season.
Q-REAT ATTENTION
fe Ptfg (
has been given by our
e ntative in London to the growing require
ments of
our trade, and we shall have
Prs ® Fori INiPICIfOH
D R / e —g New Goods T 313 D iY :-
claBn» C^y?RET rE GLOVE?, four and six
OTjrq—’ all the newest winter shades
< s Pecla!i^ oVE * the “FLORA” K D GLOVE
c tor it. a>d not pro-
Lh'tons 6l8 ewhtre) l in all ccl. 00, lour and six
*«n«th?5S SS^D SWEDE GLOVE', in all
Reaper colours
p RAIN d BHAw ’S PLUSHES and VELVETS,
and STRIPED VELVET 3
**®AT*|so 0 ,
p SILKS an d SATINS NEW MERVEILLEUX
fjSsMATiiiALS B LATBVF FASaIO^
V AB,an n i d n 8 4 ?^’ s SERGES, STRIPE CAN-
PBAp E a d CASHMBRES
N CN’B a v D T S r H ,f W ' s BLACK CABHMERES,
In aterißi. V f^ I I < I NGS ' and other new black
6 WtVo mournlD *
QGALIT A E ENT SILK CRAPES ' very best
bea U fIFUL AUTUMN COS-
JUg>p np ’ ran Blng In prices from 255. to 8 guineas
GOODS NED ’ NEW PRILLINGS and LACE
C OIU N H? R HOSIER V, new CUFF 3 and
Rew 58, EadieB ' and Children’s Underclothing
Ronn**u FlowerB and Feathers, Millinery
PEAPEsIi SHAW,
—326, 328 George-street.
RAWVASELIBiE
B
A
JU « E ill« f n^Sf, an d Preserving Horses’ Hoofs
w? L®atho? r^ lteß * and prevents their growth.
Jy!)* B It crnr>Tri reBerva tlve It Is invaluable—pre-
th-v® Its ant?* nE ’ and renders it waterproof.
SirS 1 hroteofVl» orr( i B l v ® qualities, uneqalled as a
ÜBnfl a I Iri s, I° r keeping in perfect order
SSI for the «K hlne8 ’ *O. It is the sole materia'
keen at » armiL OVo „ Purposes in the Austrian an •
w P°ra. mi6B - Sold by ail Saddlers and Store
g» B m SOLE AGENTS :
& SO.,
IJS IRONMONGERS,
HATTERS
STREET
S Yd N eiy:
, fi^WALLACE,
° f ® VOTy descrlpt'cn of
Law, l/ercar,*j;s and
****** i>S i anc y Stationery .
*lTi t D * r# »M HaißKinn hoUtM fcy
** JftP*
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
m
Wj
So
iS
a
a
SK3
m
M
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PAIiJB ALB
Tht BHST ALB and STOUT In the Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINB
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchln, Johnston & 60. f
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
|RB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVRN(ENCE, ECONOMY.
!&- THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER stives
labour, stßtienery, and time, writirg mu eh
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pew
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the solo agents,
IMRAY and CO„
86 Ciar: nee-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £166,000
Directors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairs an.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq. .
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jaa. Seroggie, Esq. I H. E. Cohen. Esq.
GItTERAL MAWAQIR:
r. A. A. Wilfion.
Baos JT art :
Hector Allen,
Branches in NSW south Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Goaford, Nynsrsn,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch: 158 Leadentaall-street,
Directors:
Bdward Chapman, Bag.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Eaq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Hsq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, KB7.
London Bankbkb:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and S'lnan
dal Agency Business on the most favourable tor ms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
IT (Electricity) cures abun-
dance of diseases, even
the moat stubborn, particu-
larly those of the Nervous
kind —many of them in a
moment by a single touob,
most in a few days-so that
this is net only one of the
greatest curiosities in the
world, but one of the noblest
medicines that God ever gave
to man.—The Rev. J. Wesley.
Glad tidings of certain re-
lief to sufferers from seminal
weakness by means of Foot’s
Voltaic Appliances.
Tbo Voltaic Belt, as advised,
is really a galvanic battery,
as it is comrr only termed, jts
mode of application is so well
known that I need nut wsste
space in expatiaticn.
sdf
These Voltaic Belts are a certain, safe, ana
speedy cure for Liver Complaint, Indiyestlon,
Seminal Debility, Nervous Head*chea Lumbago,
Sciatica, Dyspepsia, Palpitation of the Heart,
Heartburn, D’zziness, Lack of Will Power, For-
getfulnesp, Irritability, and all complaints of a
nervous nature.
The price in future will be 17v 6d. instead of
60a., 88 formerly. As I have now Permanently
located in Australia, I can furnish them at h-ss
than one-third their former price.
The above amount includes medical advice, if
required.
Apply t.t once to Dr. FOOT, Box Old. 0.P.0.,
Sydney, with P O. Order for 17s. (id., and your
belt will be despatched by the return of post.
DR. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLEREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physioian of New Bouth Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday:
ana Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Doformitics, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Hot ISO f1.P.0.
g
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Bcrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALTNG SO A"’,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing' of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Go.
a USTRALTAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—.*loo,ooo with power to increase to 51,000,000
RON USES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
I
Head Offices. **ms
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Folicy-hc ders arB perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal-settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manage?;
Head Offioeo—PlTT fend KING STREETS.
I, & 0. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
FXiLSSTOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
SIS 6EOR6E STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmcad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALE PRICE.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT'& LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In ties ciiy.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at tates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL UVBBTOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Lcarmonth, Faq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levlen, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Doga insured
against death.
Marine Risks aocepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castleroagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
' /V 5
v>VVVV * vV
MePar?. S. HOFPNUNG & CO., Agents.
r «?
o ~0
A* ji” v .
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPROBYNE
The only Reliable Besnedy for Mental am Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline and is «
marvellous n edicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
Bystem without exciting care or thought unon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungß, l
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled Id
medicine, and Is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Bold by all chemists.
Agents -Elliott Boos
G. B. 100811,
DURING his recent visit to Londo~, carefully
selected a largo a~d varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
•"take rs.
G, B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of tbe fact that he has bean appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don TKOS. BLAND & 80N., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. EL is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BOSSY &CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinde of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
@O2 Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
■'fpGK FRESH FOOD AND ICB COMP AN X
JL (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
il
Go. 23 &cyal Hfeade,
where they supply
WPk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their cart*.
They have also taken over the Agonoy fo
** KOUMISS,” eo highly recommended In pulmo
nery complaints.
Fresh Food A See Co., Limited,
Head Office 81 Harbour-street
Stabios .. Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
MBIICINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs rnd Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in tho most scientific manner
to ensure the best setion,
TOR NOTHING
is more rsteniial to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we r niy employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
NEVER MI NO
the temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and unqualified bands. By skill,
science, and
THE CAfeH
system, we are able to command an extensive
patronage and supply everything of the best
quality at the lowest prloes.
T. .TONES & CO., Oiapeimlnp; Chemists,
63 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Brarch Housor;— Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Bur y Illlif; snd Suva, Fiji.
EPPS’S
t
GRATEFUI COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
exhibit*
; ;ija|
limited.
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Have always In STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AKD
SABTHBNWAB
WINES, BEERS, AND BPIRITS
and general
SULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BOEJN and CO.'H
Cognac.
J.T i. ATEN'S
rchr'-.’otrt *nc Geneva.
A M• V, N and SONS’
'Sdlni/tt kb Tale A ie„
DP.. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections
Me'ical Establishment, 20.'). Elizabeth-street,
near Batburft-Btr:et.
Hours : !) till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is (ho only medical man advertising
In Australia who ht>s pvssed tbe dogrocsof an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of fbo Royal College of Physicians,
London. 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Burgoor.s. London, 1859.
[s3)s
The
If ASTHMA, EROMCHITIS, COUCH
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
PRLPARHu ONLY BY
,„m a s Ingham.,,,,
Ro c k h a m p t a ivT.
'» r * r TT * M
>.■ —B


14 B 3 MELBOURN^ T ’ f 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THOS.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER,
and OPTICIAN,
NEAK pO V ST©S ,t
Manufacturer of Turret docks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying instruments, Sc.
Gaunt’s Special Silver ffnnling English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct an 1 1
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock ot Goal and Diamond Jewe ey* >
PRICE LISTS F3EE ON APPLICATION.
sdfg
FOB GENERAL DEBILITY AND NEBYOUSNE33,
FOB INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOE FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK I T I
At all Druggists and Chemists,
p<
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FHY & SO2TB, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the beat ale or porter.— Lanobt.
mm
mm't
WA
mm
m
i
DH. O CONTITELr,,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDITET, YT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELLis the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., aro
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
inanent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evQjrgr kina,, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying 1 particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known, appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, to pages, sent free. Call on or
address - DOCTOR. J. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereaglr street (ground floor), Sydney.
BUDGEREE ! BUDGEREE '■ ■
Trade
\
Mark,
MO MOHS FEVEH.
The BUDGEKEE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer
dtistrt yer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly Kin
smells arising from elosots, bad drains, &c. Sold at all chemist®
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower
»».<* ha d
Pitt
T) O BEST BUTCHER * 0.0
(Late William Long),
m~ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGS STREET,
OPPOSIT* THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Gauntry Orders receive prompt attention.
MMOOPi HE*
h« a«k« of »nil«ri»g kusnanity, jjf wl Ci—, , * A
Wm Jfreaorivtiom Wkioh CUR Ej> IU J* -j/
nSßsassaajssSßv **
a
TION
BUltla SO© JLImM.
JTRBT AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling', healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching plropnrties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Bole Agents.
WUUCI BROS.’
HEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, HYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTER BEFQR2
Copyrighted.
BEFOn3 after
Copyrighted,
Packets Is. G d.
jftUiiSTACZiaciWHISEESS.
Boyd’s Beard F.Hxirdid this, and
1 will do i 4 on either bald head or
bare free, forcea heavy Mona*
tame in front 2 to 4 weeks and never
/ uit.9, 2*),000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3a. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation
Addrett, Frank Douglaa, Sole Agent, BoxTMfG.P.O., Sydney,N.B. )?•
P. KIRBY,
S'rom the late My. Jahss Cttbsis,
TXxx<a.exta,3s:@x,
84 EUNTMIS ft PHILLIP STS£IT3.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (X 6) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Awarded Three
Friz'? Medals
sdfg
for
Woi* 1 ®
SS. ROWX.AMDe f
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, . , * . f
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor af Vlgorin^
BALLARAT, MELBO (JRNB, and at
81 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awaroed the Only Go/a Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, * '
A. B. PYK
Importer and Manufacturer
HIGH ART FUR« |T
AND
.Appoint me&* 0 '
Brass, Iron, and Mickle-plat 6 * 1
Wovs ?, Mire, and other Matt*®
4* te
Velvet- pile, Kidderminster, f, O ,
sells Carpets in Newest Colourings »
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth Hugs, Door
Services, Chamber Ware
Kitchen Requisite?, &°
&o.
The Only Address is _ .-gif
355 and s6sa Pitt-* 1
BETWEEN _ ft,
Livers, 00l and Bathurst 8 r
& YDNBY.
M#i
AWARDED THREE PRIZE * J
FOR DURaBILIX^*
>3
