

THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 —No. 163-New Series.
2fi. UVUi
Frioe—Od.
Cremation.
The Bull
SATURDAY, JUNE 36, 1886.
Tub fact that New South Wales is called
upon to consider a Bill to legalise the burn-
ing of the dead proves how contagious
enthusiasms are when founded on a princi-
ple of right. There is no pressing necessity
for the adoption of 'such a measure in the
colony, or in Australia. In the countries of
the old world, where people are crowded
together, and where there are not acres
enough for the living, wide spaces railed in
for the use of the dead are naturally looked
at with covetous eyes. More than space
enters into the consideration. Where the
home of the dead is pitched among the
homes of the living it becomes a source of
pestilential evil. A necessity arises for
moving it back among the green fields,
or out of existence altogether. But, if
moved back to-day, in another generation
it will want to be moved again, and so on
until we come to the deep sea. The farther
from the hives of life the bodies of the dead
are taken the greater the expense bereaved
families must bear. On national and indi-
vidual grounds, then, in large centres of
life, the subject of other ways of disposing
of the dead possesses immediate and com-
manding interest. On neither ground is
New South Wales compelled to act immedi-
ately. It is, therefore, that we attribute
the present movement to the influence of
those invisible, impalpable, but quickening
currents of thought that, on all questions
of true human interest, flow from a centre
where the issue is vital to every mind that
has not been isolated by years of sluggish-
ness in the solitudes of selfishness.
Baa
We find it noted that the Anglican and
R.O. Churches in America have pronounced
against the cremation of the dead. It is to
be expected that the ohprohes in Australia
will, therefore, follow suit. Why any
branch of the Christian Church should
assume this attitude is not plain. The dead
are reduced to dust, anyway. Though cus-
tom and current sentiment may feel shocked
at the reduction being effected by fire in-
stead of by the slower but not less sure pro-
cess of ordinary decomposition, there does
not appear any room for heterodoxy ;to
come in. It is departure from principles,
not from customs, from reason, not from
sentiment, that is taken to constitute heresy
from any of the great Christian systems. If
cremation annihilated the human body there
would be ground for Christian arguments,
based on the doctrine of the Resurrection!
to be introduced. But if we are to arise
again with our bodies, we can, of a cer-
tainty, as well do it out of the fire as out of
the grave. Many of the martyrs were
burned. Nebo and others used to cover
them with pitch, put them standing at the
street corners, light them at the top, and
make them serve as lamps for night-walk-
ing Romans. We venture to say that these
worthy people will be put to no greater
trouble on the Last Day than those who
were interred in the Maremma, which was
in due time cut up into allotments, and sold
as sites for eligible villa residences.
« • «
In early times, when saints were fashion-
able, the custom of putting a body in the
grave left, no doubt, a chance to reclaim a
finger or toe for an edifying exhibition
afterwards. Ecclesiastical annals abound
with narratives of such reclamations. If
this be the motive of opposition we may
point out that the incineration of a saint
does not seem to destroy the possibility of
his leaving a toe or other member behind.
That degree of saintliness which would en-
able him, when in the grave, to defy the laws
of decomposition, should, we contend, en-
able him to defy the heat of a blast furnace.
The forces of Nature are in the long run in-
contestably more potent than those of man.
The saint able to wag an imperishable toe
over the mould of the grave will, if our
confidence in him be not sadly misplaced,
think it a very small feat to wave an incom-
bustible toe over the reddest cremator con-
templated by Dr. Cubed, author of the New
South Wales Cremation Bill. To us it looks
easier. Should it, however, be pronounced
impossible to preserve a carnal part in such
circumstances, there would still, we hold, be
amply compensating benefits in having the
saint in a state of ash. There were, and are,
it is said, to the present day, angry feuds as
to which monastery owns the genuine mem-
bers of particular saints. All the convents
that claimed to possess a great toe of St.
THE LATE SIR ALEXANDER STUART.
Petbr could only be right on the hypothesis
that all the toes of the venerable fisherman
were great ones-an hypothesis each con-
vent indignantly reprobated. Two con-
vents in the South Prance bad, and
have to-day, we believe, each the nose of
John the Baptist. Now, if these saints
had been incinerated in the Philadelphian
fashion, any number of admiring confrater-
nities might have been provided with a
pinch of dust apiece, and the obvious phy-
sical basis for wrangling would never have
existed. This is not levity. It is a way of
saying that the churches need feel no alarm.
Anthing that is supernatural about the
human body can defy man.
* v *
Although there may at the time be no
urgent reason for putting a principle into
action, it is always right to give assent to it
if it be sound. New South Wales will some-
time find that room cannot be made in the
vicinity of its large towns for the burying
of its dead. Possibly the first step will be to
discover that graveyards in and around
cities are spaces filled, not only with the
bodies of the dead, but with the agents of
death. Prom this will come the necessity
for deportation. Deportation will become
oppressively expensive. At this stage an
alternative for cemeteries must be adopted.
We do not admit to any predilection for in-
cineration. Deep-sea burial looks from some
points preferable. But as death itself is
calamitous, nothing associated with it can
be free from pain. The village graveyard,
or God’s silent acre, in the heart of the
buzzing city is, perhaps, the best ideal of a
seemly place to lay the bosom over which,
for years, our love bad lingered. To throw
it into the deep where monsters riot, or into
the flames of the mortuary furnace, requires
the hand of an exacting reason to steady
the will.’ of feeling. It is true that a con-
templation of the processes of dissolution
that go on beneath the flowers, the grass,
and the black mould, would reveal con-
ditions still more horrible than those to be
found in sea or furnace. But the Jfaot is
that the human mind does not thus con-
template. The eyes stay above among the
flowers—they see in the lily’s pallor the cold
white face of the dead, they trace the frozen
life-stream in the violet’s purple;—the mind
calls up the body beneath. Framed in the
beautiful things of earth, the dead form
arises as a picture of the living time, and
while standing there among the cypresses,
the lonely mourner feels in contact with the
being whose heart throbbed to his, whose |
life lived in his. It should not be disguised
that the adoption of the crematorium will
necessitate a new course of education for
the human heart—a new site for our temple
of sorrow, a new stone for its altar.
Indignant Anglicans.
During the past fortnight fierce denuncia-
tions of an unnamed but clearly-indicated
Sydney newspaper— The Bulletin to wit—
have resounded from Anglican pulpits. AH
the old accusations have been hurled; we
are described as “ scurrilous scoffers at all
religion and morality,” “ blasphemers of all
that is holy and divine ’’—these are the very
words of one black-coated Boanerges—and
all because we ventured to hint in a recent
issue that the past history and present atti-
tude of the Church of England were utterly
inconsistent with the precepts of its first
Teacher. Judged by a jury of Anglican
parsons, The Bulletin would be awarded
a very short trial and an unusually stout
rope, for we have fallen into fierce disfavour
with a section of these gentlemen. We do
not now advert to their censures for the
purpose of justifying ourselves in their
sight—that, without instant recantation
and a large donation to the clerical exche-
quer, would be a work of impossibility.
And we are not yet sufficiently repentant to
be inclined to make these useless sacrifices to
clerical pride. But, for the consideration of
those who are still doubtful as to the jus-
tice of our criticism, we would state our
position with even more clearness than on
previous occasions. One subsidiary point,
however, deserves a passing allusion, and
that is the quickness with which the clergy
have taken notice of the article thus fiercely
denounced. This does not prove that these
zealous priests read The Bulletin ; not at
all—their information is only acquired on
the “ I-have-been-credibly.inf ormed-iny^
brethren ” system.
* * ♦
Their denunciations are based upon what
must, in most eases, be a wilfully erroneousi
assumption. They assume, with pheno-
menal arrogance, that they are to be con-
sidered as part and parcel of true religion;
our argument avers that they are only
nominally connected with it. The position
will be best understood by a reference to a,
quarrel which a Sydney clergyman recently
had with one of his parishioners, who op-
posed his pastor in connection with some
parochial matters. The latter waxed wroth
and wrote to the recalcitrant one in these
terms; “lam acting under God’s direction;
if you oppose me, you are opposing God.’?
A more “ blasphemous ” assertion was never
made by a Freethought lecturer, but yet
the clergy with whose utterances we are
now dealing make an identical claim. Be-
cause they are habited in the clerical sheep’s
clothing they claim to be pure merinos,
With arrogance immeasurable they claim
an infallibility which they rightly deny to
the Pope. Nor is this the limit, for the
apotheosis of their presumption is displayed
in the delusion that the virtues which make
up the sum of piety can be inculcated only
by priests of their sect. Thus the inference
is that the Church is not only the true in-
structor in religion, but that religion itself
is actually the offspring of the Church, a
similar supposition—that religion was the
exclusive property of a sect-led to all the
horrors of the Inquisition in Spain, the St
Bartholomew massacre in France, and the
bonfires of Smithfleld, besides keeping
Europe throughout the middle ages in a
state of almost continual war. It has never
been possible for the ecclesiastics to believe
that any piety could be genuine, or even
commendable, unless it bore the trade-
mark of, their own relatively small sect
The reign of Bigotry still continues, all
though its power for evil has been limited
by the advance of men towards a better ana


NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/8 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director 1 !
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ao-
oapted for amounts under £l.
truer conception of the nature of religion.
Once, fire and the sword', were available for
the punishment of all who dared to believe
anything beyond that which was taught by
the Church; when these were denied, brutal
laws and barbarous punishments were held
up as a warning to the heretics; now the
only arm left for the defence of the mono-
polisers of religion is taken from the dic-
tionary. “Scurrilous blasphemers” is a
useful phrase, but it has not half the power
of the old-time stake and the stocks—penal-
ties invoked by the same spirit of bigotry
which now employs such abuse as the only
remaining and available weapon.
♦ ♦ *
The Pharisees of two thousand ye-rs ago
were admittedly a very bad lot. Canon
Farrar eloquently writes of the doctrinal
religion of that time as follows:
“ In proportion, as the inner power and meaning
of a religion are dead, in that proportion very
often is an exaggerated imp or t att ached to its outer
forms. Formality and indifference, pedantic scru-
pulosity and absolute disbelief, are correlative,
and even flourish side by side. It was so with
Judaism in the days of Christ. Its living and
burning enthusiasm was quenched; its priests
were no longer clothed with righteousness; its
saints were few. The axe was at the root of the
barren tree, and its stem served only to nourish
a fungous brood of ceremonials and traditions.”
And, as instance of their absurd for-
malism, he quotes their traditions, “that on
the Sabbath a nailed shoe might not be
worn because it was a burden, but that an
un-naiied shoe might be worn; that a person
might go out with two shoes on, but not
with only one; and that one man might
carry a loaf of bread, but that two men
might not carry it between them, and so
forth, to the very utmost limits of tyrannous
absurdity.” Undoubtedly the Pharisees
were a bad lot, their formalism and pride
had divorced them from their religion.
Yet, after all, are the modern Churchmen
much more to be admired for their devotion
or their works, than these misguided
Hebrews ? Is there less formalism now than
then ? Look, for instance, at our Sabbath
traditions. There is no harm in a quiet
walk, but there is alleged to be sin
in equestrianism. A bishop may drive
with his coach and pair to cathedral,
and the curate may righteously follow
in a cab, and they then join in con-
demning the unfortunate wretch who, shut
up for 16 hours a day during the week, and
having no carriage of his own, goes for a
trip down the harbour instead of going to
church. To sit down on Sunday to a hot
dinner, served by half-a-dozen domestics,
is uo sin, but to buy a threepenny cigar or
an apple is a religious outrage. “Andso
forth to the very utmost limits of tyrannous
absurdity.’ ’ The Pharisees earned condem-
nation by their prostitution of the very
name of religion, and their sect was a curse
to the age because it quenched the holy fires
it pretended to cherish. They professed
to be the sole proprietors of sanctity ; their
actions proved that they had misconceived
and distorted every article of their faith.
By their fruits y® shall know them,” was
the Master’s test. Vf e, in the writings that
have so much offended, have but applied
that test to a modern sect, and have been
brought to believe that only thistles were on
the branches where rich fruit should grow
if the tree were true to the name it bears.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
De Mortuis Nil Nisi Bonum.
The cablegram announcing the death of Sir Alex-
ander Stuart has given the Sydney daily papers
an opportunity of belauding the deceased and his
political actions. We have no intention of indulg-
ing in similar comment. The maxim de mortals
nil nisi honum has no application in the political
world. We recklessly criticised his actions while
living,—differing in this particular from Mr.
O’Connor, who walked hand in band with him In
life and then flourished a shilelagh over his coflin,
-and do not hesitate now to say that his political
career was not such as could ho repeated with
profit to the colony. Judged hy the fulsome bio-
graphies in tho daily press, ho was a species of
Australian Washington, and therefore a model
for the colonial youth, but what, after all, are the
facts? Sir Alexander, after spending a long
term In commercial affairs, was pushed forward
by Bishop Barker as the champion of sec-
tarian education, and his efforts in that
cause are the most creditable Incidents in
his political record. But it is ss a Premier
that his political repute must be measured. Gain-
ing office after the elec ion battle of 1882 he
showed lamentable timorouanefs in the election of
Speaker, allowing his “ followers ” to support Mr.
Barton, while he himself voted and spoke on the
other side for Sir George Wigram Allen. Ac-
ceding to office with an Immense surplus In the
Treasury, he supinely permitted such a reckless
expenditure that in October. 1885, there was a
deficit of nearly a million. In that month his long
reign came to an inglorious end. Charge after
charge of jobbery, and well or ill-founded suspi-
cions of something worse, scattered the followers
of the Cabinet, until it sought by resignation an
escape from attacks that it could not repel. A fog
of suspicion still obscures that Administration. It
is needless to catalogue the unanswered allega-
tions upon a score of accusations; the only at-
tempted defence was by contemptible evasion. It
la impossible to state that the charges were un-
true, but it la competent for us to declare that
they were never fairly met. Before tho advent of
this Stuart Cabinet, political life was deemed to
be pure, and the actions of members generally
were regarded as being above suspicion; since
the fall of-that Cabinet, suspicion is the popular
accompaniment of political action. Nor is there
any particular virtue attaching: to the Stuart
Cabinet. Its history was one long record of inoom-
petence and wastefulness. Never has New South
Wales been worse served than during that period.
The reputation of her Constitution was dragged
through the mud, in the depths of which the
Cabinet at last ingloriously sank. Nor can we
regard the recent position of Sir Alexander, as a
pensioner of the Government, a creditable one
to himself. Sir Saul Samuel, the New South
Wales Agent-General, was Insulted, and a huge
job perpetrated in order that Sir Alexander
might go to England on a salary of £l2OO, and take
with him Hon. Louies, who received nearly £lOOO,
and Mr. Kenneth Stuart, whose salary was £2OO
a year. And the very knighthood which Sir Alex-
ander bore, was given on account of the Soudan
business, which he had no active part in helping
on. We do not doubt that the deceased knight
was an excellent friend and an admirable parent,
but viewing the degradation of our public insti-
tutions under his auspices, we cannot regard his
career with the admiration our contemporaries
have suddenly discovered to be its due.
+
Preparing for the Battle.
Three interesting items of news arrived by cable
recently. The items are about Popes and Kings.
The Emperor of Germany has sent a gold pectoral
cross as a present to Pope Leo. Prince Bismarck
has carried through the Prussian Legislature an
Act repealing the anti-clerical laws he passed in
1871 with the object of curbing the pride of
Pope Pius. The third item is that Pope Leo
has directed the Irish bishops to take no
part in the forthcoming electoral campaign
in Ireland. These items are closely enough
related to admit of treatment under one head.
They show the fusion of thought and sentiment
that exists among the highest spiritual and the
highest temporal powers. As regards Irish affairs,
the bishops are, at the present juncture, down to a
man on Parnell's committee. But the greatest
enemies to Irish Home Rule are the wealthy Eng-
lish Catholics. English Catholic nobles have been
always more uncompromising foes to the exten-
sion of Irish rights than Protestant nobles. Glad-
stone is at present on the apex of a pyramid in
the constitution of which there is very little
wealth and extremely little rank. Even before
exercising his reason, the fine sensibilities of the
Pope would be aware of a current of repulsion
from such a pyramid. They would also recognise
the attraction of affinity for the opposite side.
After exercising his reason, he goes straight in the
latter direction. There stands worldly dignity.
There stand age-old privileges. There stands
kingcraft. There imperialistic emblems are dis-
played. If the Pope cannot be both Pope
and King, Leo Is determined to be all of
a Pope he can, and to be as close up against
a King as he can. That is his conception of
the Popedom. And Emperor William would
like to be Pope, but as he cannot, he will get as
close up to the Pope as he can. Bismarck is in his
element while he holds a hand of each. But there
is more than this in the items. The repeal of the
obnoxious May laws leads the Potentates to em-
brace. Now, for what? What conspiracy is being
hatched ? Well, the Anarchists, the Socialists,
the root - reformers, are gathering power in
the Fatherland. Their madness is being re-
duced to method. They are learning to con-
solidate their resources. They are no longer
wild meteoric intelligences going they know not
whither. They are the People. They are going to
do away with kingcraft; to kill it and bury it in
the iniquities it has wrought. The temporal ruler
fears. Therefore he calls for the spiritual. They
patch up old quarrels. They embrace. Both will
fight the people. Poor Leo I What a ragged old
courtezan of tyranny and oppression Popes like
you have made of an Institution that for a little
was, and should for ever have been, a blessing to
the earth I
+
Sir John Kobertson Betires.
And well he may. For the life the old man has of
late led in that honourable House has been calcu-
lated to breed disgust. The old man had in other
days lived and associated with good men, big men,
true men,— Wentworth and Lang and Dar-
vall and Dallhy and Martin.” How could he
endure Cooky Burns spluttering in his ear, and
Julius Caesar Nbild cackling at his back, Dan.
O’Connor orating two seats away, and the House
adjourning every hour to let some twopenny half-
-1 penny grievance have ventilation? He tried to
sleep through it, but they disturbed his
He went down to his club, but they came bunting
him with rumours of an anticipated division or
something of the sort. He was worried to death;
and, if there was no other cause, the con-
temptible character of the great majority of his
associates would have been quite sufficient to
bring about and justify his resignation. But he is
not well. He tells us plainly he is not well. We
| shall none of us be very well when we come to
our 73nd year, and if we go down to the National
Park and play larks jumping over the rocks, it is
very likely Indeed that we shall come home with
damaged legs. The old man damaged one of his
legs down there. He got amongst rocks, and he
might as well have fallen amongst thieves, for he
was picked up lamed and maimed, and taken home.
And the doctor went down and fixed up the leg,
but it didn’t do well. "How are you?” the
doctor would say, and the old man would growl
with some irascibility, "I’m very well-how are
you? How’s this leg of yours? This is your’s,
not mine, this blessed leg.” The doctor didn’t
believe him, and wanted to take the parson down,
whereupon the old Sir John rose, mastered his
leg, and swore that, though the rocks beat
him, he would beat ths parson if ever he came
round about. This was 13 months ago. And
we remember that some of the papers, with most
certainly our old friend the D.T. in the midst of
them, seemed to resent the refusal to call in the
parson, and lectured the old man on his physica l
infirmity, and evidently held that he ought to give
himself up to spiritual consolation, and leave poli-
tics to these who would submit themselves to
good clerical advice. Who shall describe Sir
John then ? Advice of that sort was more potent
than all the physic. It cured him and it cured his
leg. He came up to town, and there was not much
physical Infirmity about him when he turned on
j his critics. But he made a mistake In trying to get
the State coach along with that terribly scratch
team, Dan. O'Connor and Hbydon on the pole,
and; Cocky Burns for leader. He couldn’t run
them in harness', and when the majority said, in
pity rather than anger, take ’em out again, he
couldn’t rest at ease in the same paddock. He
will have no more of them. He will get
away down to his own house, he will
take charge of his own affairs. He has neglected
them long enough. Well, the old man has friends,
of course, who know how his affairs stand; but,
right or wrong, the people of this colony have a
notion that old Jack s affairs consist mainly of
difficulties. We don’t know how that may be, and
don’t want to poke any inquisitive nose In to en
quire, but if the affairs do not turn out as he
hopes, if there is ever the slightest difficulty in the
way of his finding a bottle of good wine for him-
self and another for a friend, if he is troubled for
a moment about any provision for any who are
near and dear to him, then New South Wales will
have an unpaid debt on her mind which should be
more oppressive than a belated bushman’s dream
of snakes. That cheers went up from all pari s of
the House when the proposition to vote a good
round sum was notified, on Tuesday night, is an
lidexof the disinclination of members to run a
censorious mercenary rule over the veteran's
services.
♦
The North Harbour Mystery.
It is too early to say that Elizabeth Martin's
death is due to the criminal act of the known
companions of her last hours, but as the case
stands at present there is a very strong suspicion—
a suspicion little short of certainty—that her fate
is the result of another of those “Down the Har-
bour ” outrages which have become a feature of
Sydney life. The present evidence in no way
affords an adequate explanation. Take, for in-
stance, that part of tbe girl Brown's story (corro-
borated by each of the men,) that the four,
reclining on separate couches, passed the greater
part of the night in quiet conversation and
then peacefully and quietly slept. When girls
of doubtful character go down the harbour under
similar circumstances, Platonic disquisitions on
indiffereat topics do not usually form, even
with the admitted adjunct of “skylarking,” the
sole business of the hour. This tale, as it stands
when we write, is suited only for an audience of
marines. A possible explanation is that Eliza-
beth Martin was assaulted by some un-
known person after leaving the Platonic trio;
or it may be that, disgusted with the formal
politeness of Griffiths and James, she rushed
away and drowned herself in sheer des-
peration. These possibilities, or others, may
account for the tragedy, but we do not hesi-
tate to say that until further evidence is obtained
the story told by the three survivors will not
obtain credence with the public, but will, on the
contrary, be regarded as an indication of the
existence of some unpleasant and disastrous truth
which it is necessary for the sake of some one or
others of the little picnic party to hide.
+
"What For?
Many a man is astonished when he comes to “pan
out.” He had hoped for a few specks, but the
handful of nuggets, the boxes of dust, go near
turning his brain. And ’tis the same at times
when we come to bottom, and wash out familiar
facts. Government House, Sydney, now, 1s a
fairly familiar fact, and it seemed hard to a loyal
man when one, bitter through hard luck, maybe,
said,—“Pahl only a duffer.” “Dufferl what do
you mean?” “ All of it rubbish and nonsense,
weariness and vexation, to a well-to-do swell like
Carinqton, fooling about “ doing the civil ” to
our noodles and nobodies, as bad in manners as in
pedigree, and as mean as rich.” “ Well, yes, but he
is expected to entertain, you see. He Is reasonably
expected to entertain the society of the place; he
receives his salary for that purpose.” “ Who pays
him?” "New South Wales pays him.” “And
who finds the money for New South Wales?”
Taxpayers, of course.” " Are all the taxpayers
in Society?” "God forbid.” " But they all help
to pay the Governor’s salary?” "Yes. It
comes out of the baooa, and the rum, and
the beer, and the tea, and sr on.” "Then
you and I, and all other poor devils who stump up
liberally on these commodities, pay our quota ©t
the revenue which is supposed to be expended in
entertaining ‘ society ?’” "It seems so.” And the
bricklayer, going home to his pint of colonial and
his lump of salt-horse, and meeting an old colonial
and,his family filling up a barouche, can say:
“ They are going down to eat the feast for which
I have paid, and to take their pleasure in the
Governor’s garden, which is cut out of my
domain.” "Does it seem so?” He replies,
“ Well—yaas,” And what shall we do with it now
we have panned it out ?
♦
Tha Bishop’s Way.
Clermont, North Queensland, is not a place for a
sensible man to try and sell humbug. The grim rea-
lities of nature are too close and too vast round
about. Life is very real and very earnest out there
and the men are real and earnest too, and must
surely have thought that bishop who recently
got up amongst them a poor, thin sham. It was
Bishop Webber, of Brisbane, and was after a
6 inch rainfall, probably, when the grass had
covered up the skeletons of the sheep and the
dead bullocks were only recognised as larger
mounds of darker green. There seemed to him a
good deal to be grateful for, and so, having
gathered tbe Clermonters together, he told them
plainly: "you ought to be grateful,”—and then
noticing perhaps a queer smile on many hard
faces, he deemed it to be his duty to explain in
what way. This was the bishop’s way. " One ex-
cellent method of showing gratitude, brethren, is
to put your money in the missionary-box.” Now
It seems necessary to say that this is no invention
or fable. It really did occur. A living bishop in
North Queensland did face a congregation and
give them this advice,—" put your money in the
missionary-box.” Was he utterly ignorant of the
circumstances, the wants of the country in which
he stood? Did he know nothing of a native race
being slowly tortured, poisoned, degraded, out of
existence? Did he know nought of the white popu-
lation, as fax from practical Christianity as the men
of Corinth In the Pauline epoch, or of Paris under
the Third Empire? Was he not aware that round
about him there a million brutes were starved to
death in every bad drought; that the bleats and
the groans of God’s creatures appealed in vain to
the God’s images of men for the slightest mercy ?
Doubtless he knew all ? But what of that ? His
mission was not to deal with facts, but to voice
clap-trap. What are the miseries and the wants
and the wrongs of North Queensland by compari-
son with the bitter cry of starving London ? What
are all the wrongs, all the wants, all the hea-
thennesse of all the isles by comparison with the
wrongs and pangs and cries of London ? And yet
in London, as in Clermont, upon the self same
Sunday doubtless, bishop and priest and dean
might have been found in pulpits pleading, not
the cause of God's poor round about them, but
talking rot and rubbish about the well-to-do,
Goo-provided natives of sunny isles, and saying:
“Put your money in the missionary-box I" The
well-merited curse of Christ fall upon the mis-
sionary-box. It hes been the greatest humbug,
fraud, and delusion of the age. It has stood on
ten thousand occasions between the poor, suffering
white man and woman, and the lithe of long
withheld dues that might have come to their re-
lief. It has given meanness an excuse, indolence a
fad, cold-hearted charity a reason, for shirking the
debt of a pound by contribution of a farthing
dole. The missionary-box I It is a marvel that
the men of Clermont did not rise with a shriek
and drive the bishop from the pulpit and hunt him
out to a rainless plain, and chase him with the
green and the dry bones, and leave him in a black-
fellow’s camp, where, a week before, the troopers
had been avenging a theft of mutton or horse-
flesh, and where then the young gins and the use-
ful picanninies were sadly missed and savagely
mourned.
4
A CONTEMPORARY SaySl—
“Lord Wolseleys ‘Scrap Cart’ ii one of the
most practical methods of alleviating present dis-
tress in London. It calls throughout Mayfair at
tne houses of such residents as agree to receive it,
and takes away scraps of meat and bones, veget-
ables, flsfa, soup, in fact all the crumbs that fall
from the rich man’s table.”
What a bright look out for Lazarus I The English
workman of to-day is indeed a man of sorrow and
unacquainted with beef, and this is all that the
rich can do for him. In his old age the workhouse
is his only refuge-we read that in the pauper
institution at Gayton (near the Prince of Wales*
magnificent seat at Sandringham) there are no
fewer than 31 old people who average beyond
fourscore years. No ‘scrap-cart’ comes round
there to relieve the monotony of their skilly and
dry bread, and probably the first real benefit the
pcor will derive from the vehicle will be when t
is converted into a tumbril and calls at the man-
sions of th<3 gilded Idlerdom of Britain on its way
to the guillotine or the gallows.
Wong Chong.
Woncj Chong, who was hanged at Brisbane a few
days ago, is not likely to receive much public
sympathy, for he was "only a Chinaman,” and
apparently a leper as well. But, none the less, his
killing was one of the most brutal of the many
brutal acts perpetrated by the Queensland authori-
ties. That Wong Chong killed Oook Tow admits of
no doubt, but, if the deed had been done by a white
man, the jury, had they only dared, would have
brought In a verdict in the three wends—
"served him right.” The man who received
such rough-and-ready justice at the hands
of his countryman had endeavoured for some
purpose of his own to terrorizs him, by holding
over Wong Chong the threat that he would reveal
his supposed leprosy to the authorities, and con-
sign him to the living death whioh in that merciful
land is termed "Isolation.” In other words, he
would be branded as hopelessly unclean, he would
be cut off from all communion with his fellow
men, and would see every human being shrink
from him as from a pestilence, while he dragged
out slow years of loneliness and torture—because
that God, in whose name the Government is sup-
posed to be carried on, had laid his hand upon him,
and a mark like that of Cain was on his brow. Had
Cock Tow laid his information, no one would have
blamed him, but when he used his knowledge as a
weapon to keep this unhappy being in perpetual
fear, he richly deserved his fate. Many will say, no
doubt, that the best use to be made of a leper is to
hang him, but however that may be, it was murder
pure and simple to execute Wong Chong for an
act committed when his mind was unhinged by
mortal terror, and his arm nerved by such tre-
mendous provocation. In Queensland, however,
there is no mercy for such as he. In that colony,
at all events, the quality of mercy is strained—
and apparently it is strained through a sieve made
of hanged men’s hair, and lost altogether in the
operation.
At Bundaberg (Q.) there is a Chinaman
who is sorrowing deeply and refuses to be com-
forted. He is a cabbage-promoter by trade, and
his name is Kum On. Closely attached to him by
the bonds of friendship was another gentleman
known as Ah Poo, and these two were beautiful
in their lives, until they were divided by a sacred
passion inspired by a young lady named "Maly
Ann.” For a time the rivalry was carried on
fairly, but at last Kum On, whose wickedness is
calculated to make angels weep, went to the police
and reported that his fellow celestial was a leper-
Then Ah Poo was run in, and inspected, and
quarantined, and isolated, and disinfected, and
—worst outrage of all—actually washed, un-
til, after six weeks of this prolonged agony,
it was discovered that the whole affair was a mis-
take, and the unfortunate was released in a state
of misery which only an unexpectedly-cleaned
Chinaman can realise. Then he found that his
pure affections had been blighted in his absence,
and " Maly Ann ” was lost to him for ever.
The European who wishes to comprehend the full
extent of his misery can do so if he paints a fancy
picture of Mr. , M.L A , L.0.L., looked up on
suspicion of leprosy, and being washed—actually
washed—by a policeman, and knowing all the
while that in his absence Mr. , backed by the
priests, is running for his constituency.
New York managers say that stage-struck
girls are on the increase. They pay from £2 to £i
a night for being allowed to appear on the stage.
That’s nothing. In Sydney ono has to pay 53 to
see some stage-struck lads appear as Greeks.


T©
Roll U P
■J\-k ?RIHC£ OF hFALB S
P£RFOKM Oi\l Ti-(E
Tio>^ T ,^ op£ ~
p*''
>*t>r
__ (pp-*
Ae fiveeo/gfr/Zs'j
tfsrf- /?from an S*^>' on
Sfortct/D oinA
2**f fro/n ci A/ayorct l
S/~cc ixclfiorrif
r u Fr ~ et jAm*
j6o/n A- or qrroveW”£ f>' J/nr \
r-\
'eery af 6/i c*uU
r/ic sfcoutt
fetnufy fo’ tnec/ otti-
f?x ?tl u Si C-
"Jr, ShTi* Ke ~'
>f find 7/10 K
rhere i*erf
3l ** 6, , e r
Z£e *° Tn ' .
fr e
Wo gov I
s ~. •- «
/ C *' C/// * a r<r e ent<S/>eech - /yAftrfe 7°/ -O'}-
i ofyour etoer/htr/M 6? a necv <&*■'
I fa tfo/ne of you " _ _/>? So trie Cases
I /** „ '3> Cr?/ecfoT /*>*, Sc-e/ear,
I rPQowrperr/oro-
ry/s caret '5 y a >- )
/>reser-mf'o>> j
tfl~ /. if
v° o i/s uj>; //»*’■“? "
/^yc
ĥ
/y <r /r/? s*'
tjs// / /or/yo ugn
f/?/f/vc£ - 'you. Aeff
fjy /cist Ti'yhf
Sciitbrof /&MJournal, Jf a ' SCX
■) Qreai- c froenotl /r7 i<r7 ”/^,' J
/C 9 ’•/Ino/Aer’ Sue* ne.
CiUeCecC.-an* are are,
U 7 71 eCC '
ħ
- fi* "“Si**”*'**"-
M-af oraj/»-
tenctCd Zo eat Ve9efa-
&7e /ooU orr/y
fr<?76o»rT7e Corrrs/>on-
aO'-n c e
( /- / / v 7%et. a.jbo\^e^'^ lrUS
J Ujje6/&CC tjo Apr Z)c(7t. O'COrt'i 07'S
S/xzgCs/ 7 077 7?r<=> eS&gJ-fy O/- S/> /?■ sT/~UC£T-?~.
Cfor fin-rhpi-
' pm'rtc -
tilars _
T'ptjo rci/nt/
/fr/% c/mirey
Set
/ssu-e^J
h
/b <z// £r**tr>***‘
Topics of the Time.


Personal
Items
annum for many years, and Theebaw’s conduct
was deemed Indecorous and unkingly. Hence the
disaffection of his followers when the English
came along. Western virtue, you observe, is
Eastern vice, so poor Theebaw was quite out of
his element in Burmah. Now, if a certain Euro-
pean prince had occupied hia throne—but it is
useless to quarrel with the decrees of Fate.
The thing which above all others must
bring to the family and friends of the late Sir
Alexander Stuart comfort in their bereavement,
is the fact that, in Thursday night’s debate in the
N.S.W. Assembly, the eminent Mr. G. A. Lloyd
arose and made a carefully-qualified statement to
the effect that Sir Alexander was in commercial
life “ an immense success,” and further that "the
deceased gentleman always “took a first-class
position,” and was “entitled to a large amount of
respect.” Such praise, comlog from Mr. Lloyd, is
of a rather mild character. All those things could
be said, and probably would be said—by the Con-
gregational clergy-about Mr. George Alfred
Lloyd, M.L A., himself.
George Augustus Sala says of Australian
servants The best I met were Irish girls, edu-
cated in the Roman Catholic Orphanages, which
abound in the colonies. The worst were recent
importations from England, but who have been
just long enough in Australia to have learned to
talk about their ‘ rights,’ and to tell us that they
were not ‘slaves and beasts of burden.’” We
expected this, because we happened to be in a
certain hotel when the distinguished " literator ”
roared from his eyrie on high that he'd raise a
civil war if his shaving-water wasn t instantly to
hand, and the area belle below exclaimed—" Musha
now, luk at that, an’th’ purty nose av ’iml ” We
are all susceptible of flattery, more or less.
The proclaiming of Prince Otho as the
new King of Bavaria, with a regent, is a rare
stroke of humour. In the usual way Otho regards
himself as a raging lion shut up in a cage. He
runs around on all fours, makes savage bites at
the sofa, and utters the most plaintive roars at
feeding times. Sometimes poor King Ludwig used
to seek a little relaxation from affairs of State by
joining brother Otho in his savage dissipations
The new doctor at Kempsey (N.S.W.) Dis-
trict Hospital was put in by the block vote of the
undertakers.
Sala has been writing about “Servant
Girls I have met.” We hope he didn’t meet ’em
by appointment.
A large crack is said to have appeared in
one of Queen Victoria’s statues in London. It is
probably the crack of doom.
ThelJ.S. ex-President, Chester Arthur, is in
a deplorable condition of health. He is only about
55, and a man of fine presence; but ** he has dined
every day for many years.”
“Brother Captain Stiggias, J.P.,” is the
name of a prominent Buffalo at Lithgow, N.S.W.
We notice also that "Acting Grand Primo Sir
Stuart Hogsflesh,” is a candidate for higher rank
in the Buffalo Order.
We read in the S.M. Herald that that gal-
lant warrior, Mr. Frank Wrench, has espoused the
errant lady to whom, if the Divorce Court evi-
dence was all true, he ought to have been married
quite a long while ago.
“At or near the close of the young peer’s
life, he, as you may have seen by the papers, com-
mitted suicide,” was what a Burwood clergyman
said last Sunday week in alluding to the career of
the younger Shaftesbury.
The factories of England make arms for
the world. But when Herr Krupp was lately
asked to sell to England one or two of his latest
cannon ,he said that he would not deal unless he
was given an order for a million pounds’ worth.
At the recent wedding of the two popular
daughters of the governor of Noumea Gaol,
every wheeled vehicle in Noumea joined in the
procession. The Noumeans are wise in their
generation. No one knows how soon he may be in
gaol.
Melbourne Punch publishes “ Leonainie,
a newly-found poem attributed to Edgar Allan
Poe.” The name of the “ Edgar Allan Poe ” who
wrote "Leonainie” is Victor J. Daley, of this
paper. " Leonainie ” was printed in The Bulletin
about five years ago.
Prince Bismarck on Lord Rosebery
“ C’est un brave gar? on, mais unpeu trop entre-
prenant.” This may be read in a lot of different
ways. It might meanßosebery Is a fine fel-
low, but rather too impulsive;” or it might
signify: "Rosebery is a plucky kid, but he’s
absurdly cooky.”
“ Now that the hysterical old crocodile at
the head of her Majesty’s Government has done
weeping over the wrongs and sorrows of Irish
dynamiters and daggermongers, and that his Bills
for destroying the British Empire are before the
country in all their naked absurdity .” This is
the commencement of an article in that organ of
hlgh-Torylsm, Vanity Fair.
One by one the landmarks of the stern
simplicity and virtues of our oldest public men
are passing away to the shadowy land of the
Nevermore. Mr. Chief-Secretary Dibbs now
sports a Tommy Dodd suit of bed-tick pattern
tweed. Probably he will go on from bad to worse,
until he, at last, takes to putting his hair in papers,
and wearing the dog-collar of the masher.
Mr. Abigail, when he wished to communi-
cate to " the Press ” the news of the alleged big
N B.W. railway-swindle, poured his story into the
ear of the Christian World. When previously
Mr Abigail communicated with the secular Press
he went to a Sydney evening paper-which basely
and’maliclously printed verbatim et Utteratim his
very phonetically-written jeremiad. Expertentia
docet.
Loyalty appears to be very much under
oar at Newcastle, (N.S.W.) The municipality,
having refused to pay the costs of the official re-
ception given to Lord Carlngton, the secretary of
the committee la now appealing to the suburban
councils, and up to date all have refused to sub-
scribe a cent. Next time the Governor comes he
will have to give a guarantee before he can get
even a restaurant«dinner in that town*
Here is a staggerer for the Mayor of Syd-
ney, whose Jubilee banquet isjust over. It is the
desire of the Queen that no celebration of the
jubilee should take place till after her Majesty
has completed the; 50th year of her reign- that is
say, not till 1887.” "Never halloa till you’re out
of the wood.” " Praise a fair day at night,” says
Victoria, who has, during her long life, seen many
a monarchy fall in less than 13 months.
At the “ Indo-Colonial ” opening, we read
in Lies (a sov-disant organ of the aristocracy, run
by a slobbering German Jew): “ when the Queen
moved off the dais, she walked alone, her two sons
foiling back a few paces; and it was impossible
not to notice the imperial dignity of every move-
ment-’ Every inch a queen.’ as an old colonist
remarked.” Who was the “ old colonist ”? Or,
rather, which was he-Salmon Wilson, the hon.
member for Canterbury, or Mr. Charles Lett ?
Sir Robert Stout, when congratulated on
his knighthood, was so deeply affected as to be un-
able to return thanks. History repeats itseff. A
Persian nobleman, who was kicked by King Cam-
bvsees, never satjdown afterwards, and always slept
Ivintr on his stomach, lest the divine Influence
should be worn away. And " Jim Cain,” a now-
defunct Warrnambool blackfellow, never washed
his hands after the auspicious moment in which
he shook the tolerably mean hand of the Duke of
Edinburgh.
The Murray Smith banquet, at Melbourne
Town Hall, was a gorgeous spread. Possibly
in honour of Mr. Smith’s naval and military
achievements an imposing terracotta statue of
“ victory ” was expressly borrowed for the occa-
sion. We can foresee a grand future for this work
of art. If Albert Edward is ever entertained in
the Melbourne Town Hall-which Heaven fprbld l
—they will given that statue a coat of gilt and
stick it behind the royal chair. Is will be emble-
matical of Bertie’s victories over the sex.
A London paper gets off the following
brutal paragraph about that adipose warrior the
Duke of Cambridge, the German Commander-in-
Chief of the unfortunate British army:—“The
Duke of Cambridge is a great humourist. At the
Roval Academy dinner he repeatedly spoke of
«we soldiers.’ Nothing could be funnier, except
it was his reference to himself and others as being
‘bellicose.’ He made a mistake, as nobody would
accuse him of being anything of the kind. There
la onlv one part of the word that could possibly
be made to apply to him, and It isn’t the last
syllable.”
An English journal says “ Mr. G. A. Sala
is back in England again and looking none the
better.!or his recent jaunt. George Augustus has
aged.” We knew he would. The backyards of
Sydney hotels, to which he devotes as much space
as to any other portion of Australian scenery,
were bad enough, but the cooking was too much
altogether. How can a man write anything good
of a place that is ignorant of p alis-de-foie-gras,
and knows nothing of truffles ? The weariness of
travelling in such a country is enough to age any
man, especially when the people will not crowd up
to hear instructive and eloquently-read lectures.
Ex-King Theebaw appears to have been
anything but a Solomon in matrimonial matters.
With the whole female population of Burmah at
his disposal, the wretched monarch only acquired
live children in five years. His royal father showed
au average yield o£ seven little strangers per
A PRICKLY PAIR.
Mr. Fletcher has Introduced into the N.S.W. Assembly a Bill for the eradication of the
Prickly Pear, Will this pair be included ?
They would roar in company, and play at being in
their native jungle. But, alas I Ludwig is no more.
King Otho must shake his mane in solitary state.
No doubt he will be cared for, and his royal whims
indulged as far as possible. If the lion likes to
eat an occasional keeper, it isn’t likely that any
fuss will be made. After all, out-and-out madness
is a kind of negative virtue in royalty. It is
when kings and princes are a little “ off” that they
do the mischief, and require careful watching.
Now, for Instance—but we are lapsing into high
treason.
The present member for Deloraine (Tas-
mania) who rejoices in the style of Henry Isidor
Raphael Joachim Rooke, has refused a walk-over
for that constituency, as he cannot afford to waste
his time in the House of Assembly. The Tas-
manian Legislature could better have spared a
better man, for H.I.R J.R, from the day when he
had to take the oath on taking his seat, and re-
peat, “I, Henry Isodor, &o,” until the last day
of last session frequently relieved the tediousnees
of long sittings by his little sallies. He was the
first to introduce into the Assembly “ Hallelujah”
in place of the outworn and less expressive “ hear,
hear.” We remember, too, seeing him rise to a
point of order, and address the late Dr. Butler,
when that gentleman was a little more somnolent
than usual, with a half-crown in each eye; aal
when a prosy speaker got up at a late hour to ad-
dress the House, Deloraine’s "oh, Lordl” and very
expressive countenance was always sufficient to
laugh the man down and bring about the wlshed-
for adjournment.
The “Life of General Gordon,” written
by his brother, Sir Henry Gordon, has received
superlative praise from the Melbourne Herald.
The biographer, according to this critical journal,
"is as cool and rational as any sensible friend of
Gordon’s, say Sir Henry Brougham Loch, would
have been in writing such a work.” Think of
that I Poor Gordon’s brother has written just
such a book as the Victorian Governor might have
turned out if he had given his mind to the task.
The extent of Sir Henry Loch's literary powers,
unhappily, may ever remain a secret between him
and the Herald. He never did write a book, and
we fear ho never will. However, let us accept
this estimate of the gubernatorial genius in all
sincerity. Comparisons between what Is and what
isn’t, open up an unlimited area of supposition.
For instance, let us cheerfully conclude that
Shakespeare wrote “ Hamlet ” on the very lines
which he foresaw Sir Henry Loeh might have
followed 300 years after date. By a slight effort
of the imagination we can revere Sir H.B.L. as the
gifted author of a hundred unwritten poems.
Gladstone declined to attend the opening
of the Indo-Colonial Exhibition. “ I see nothing
in my duty which compels me to expose myself to
the ribaldry of a London mob ” (" of flunkeys ”
was, no doubt, the ellipsis), was his’answer when
asked to go. The great Premier—who, of course,
knew that ninety-nine hundredths of the seats at
the ceremonial were let at prices which would
ensure the attendance only of titled Tories and
the wealthy snobs who follow them—has a bitter
recollection of the occasion, two years ago, when
he attended the Albert Hall, wherein was gathered
a gilded and curled and carefully assorted assem-
blage whom Gladstone’s boldness enabled for a
moment to gratify their paltry malice by loudly
hooting the foremost living Englishman. Hen-1
niker Heaton, M.P., was at the Indo-Colonia
opening, Salmon Wilson was there, the Queen
was there, her sons and her sons-in-law,
her daughters and her daughters-in-law, and
the rest of the leeches who prey on the British
body politic were thera-but Gladstone stayed
awayl Hooray for old Billy Gladstone, the real
King of England I
Reynolds’ Newspaper says of the eldest
son of the Prince of Wales:—" A duller, a stupider
lad never existed. He cannot even read with any
degree of grace or dignity the written speech
which is put into hia hand, and which is reported
next day in the newspapers as his own. The
Prince of Wales and the ‘other members of the
royal family ’ who venture to favour the public
with their views upon current topics have also
their speeches prepared for them by tee official
speech-writer.” To these compliments our
respected contemporary mournfully adds: "It
is hardly any use pointing these things
out to the English people. You have only
to dress up a donkey or an ape, and call
it ‘ king,’ or ‘ royal,’ and half the females in the
land will start into a paroxysm of admiration,
praising the lovely hoofs, and the fine-moulded
ears, and the delicate skin, and the refined ways,
just the same as if it were the most God-like of
created beings.” There is, however, one thing that
should always be remembered in connection with
this wholesale adulation business,— only donkeys
will worship donkeys.
We read in a London paper that “ Mr.
Augustus Harris has invited all the Com-
missioners of tha Colonial and Indian Exhi-
bition and the members of the Reception
Committee to a soiree and supper on the
stage at Drury Lane after the performance
of ‘Human Nature’ on Thursday, the J3rh
May. This is one of the first, and it will also be
one of the most agreeable, offers of hospitality to
our distinguished guests.” Mr. Haugustus Arris
Is a cheeky and by no means too well-educated
Hebrew individual who keeps himself well before
the public by means of his private secretary, one
Horace Lennard, well known in the world’s metro-
polis as a bathetic bard. How even Mr. Haugustus
’Arris can have mustered sufficient impudence to
approach the sacred persons of the 3789 osmmis-
siouers sent to the Exhibition by New South Wales
is so far a deep and gory mystery. Mr. ’Arris can
swear some, and when he has had an experience of
the appetites and swilling capabilities of the
choice assortment of ex-publicans and so on who
represent the colonies on this memorable occasion
he will have a few additional ideas for his Christ-
mas pantomime at “ The Lane.”
In Brisbane there is a pedagogue whose
favourite method of teaching composition is to
give his pupils a word, which they are expected to
build up into a sentence of the local Telegraph
order 01 literary architecture. Not long since the
word he selected as the base of the children s
operations was the very epithet which, according
to one Mr. Samuel Pepys, now dead, was applied
on a memorable occasion to Mistress Eleanor
Qwynn, comedienne, In the presence and hearing of
the aforesaid Nell's own footman. In an instant
Home Rule, New Guinea, and Hennlker Heaton,
were forgotten in the indignation excited by this
outrage on the proprieties, and parents and
guardians clamoured lustily for the offender s dis-
missal. The Minister for Education demanded an
explanation, and the teacher was ready with art
excuse which fitted like a blister. He averred
that he had taken the obnoxious monosyllable
from a work which was included in the carefully
compiled list of books sanctioned by the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, and which had
actually been presented to the school by the
mighty Under-Secretary himself. When requested
to name the book he pointed triumphantly to a
resplendently bound copy of “ Webster Un-
abridged.”
Melbourne Punch, which, while the lately-
deceased R.C. Archbishop Goold was ttlll alive,
often pictorially represented him as consorting
with a pig, now publishes his portrait in a black
frame, and says: He was a servant ot God, seek''
ing to redeem men.” Wonderful, isn’t it, that ouf
“facetious ” little contemporary didn’t make that
discovery any time during the 30 or 30 years which
preceded the dead prelate’s departure for the
Land of Shadesl The fact is that the Arch-
bishop, who, though a by no means highly-
cultured man, always behaved himself as a
gentleman, was, notwithstanding his marked
tendency to corpulency, considerably less fitted
to be the habitual associate of pigs than a lot
of the people who are now writing hypocri-
tical catchpenny panegyrics about him enclosed in
bogus mourning borders. James Alipius was an
earnest, hard-working, tolerably narrow-minded
old man, who, in bis early days, had imbibed
through association with the late Archbishop Pold -
ing, of aydney—whose protege he was—much of the
calmness and peaceful character of that much-
esteemed ecclesiastic. The “ complimentary
lyrical notice of his career published by Mel-
bourne Punch, ought, all things considered, to
make the old Archbishop squirm in his grave.
Mr. Thomas Jennings the colossal, Tas-
mania’s fat boy, who recently starred it through
the colonies, and was everywhere received with
open arms, is about to take a second hand at the
game of matrimony. Tom Jennings was married
previously, and the late lamented Mrs. Jennings
was proud of him—so proud of him, in fact, that
if No. 3 la relatively prom’, Tom will have a high
time of it, as he has increased a stone during his
widowerhood, and weighs now 3881 b. 7oz. without
any fig-leaves. The late Mrs. J. was once asked if
an earthquake experience at Hobart had been
felt at their place, a comfortable way-side pub ,
a couple of miles out of town. ** Bless you, air,”
she replied, “if you lived with Jennings, the one
that shook Lisbon might possibly pass unnoticed,
for he’s an earthquake himself when he moves
around.” Tom greatly missed his first love, and
informed his interviewers last year that he was
looking for someone to keep his slippers warm;
he has, apparently, found her in the person of a
buxom widow in the midland districts of Tasmania.
The very interesting couple will shortly be united
with some little ceremony, and will be the re-
cipients of numerous presents, in the selection of
which some of Tom’s good-humoured friends have
displayed pleasing conceits.
The news of the death of Tennyson’s
youngest son while at Aden on a yachting excur-
sion, recalls these beautiful verses from
“In Mbmoriam”:—
•* I hear the noise about thy keel;
I hear the bell struck in the night;
I see the cabin-window bright;
I see the sailor at the wheel.
“Thou bring’st the sailor to his wife,
And travelled men from foreign lands;
And letters unto trembling hands;
And, thy dark freight, a vanished life.
“Sobring him: we have idle dreams:
This look of quiet flatters thus
Our home-bred fancies: Oto us,
The fools of habit, sweeter seems
“ To rest beneath the clover sod,
That takes the sunshine and the rains,
Or where the kneeling hamlet drains
The chalice of the grapes of God;
“ Than if with thee the roaring wells
Should gulf him fathom-deep in brine;
And hands so often clasped in mine
Should toss with tangle and with shells.”
Not the least of the wonders of the age is
M. Blondin. Wo read that he is again ambling on
the high rope at the London Albert Palace, with
the same confidence and success as of old. Blon-
din has passed his 60th year, and is now astonish-
ing children whose grandfathers watched the
same performance in their bachelor days. Verily
the iron-nerved Frenchman is a Grand Old Man.
Yet the end must come. Sooner or later the sexa-
genarian will fall off his rope and, perchance, die
in harness. Probably there are morbid-minded
Seople patronising Blondin’s show two or three
mes a week, in the secret hope of witnessing the
catastrophe. Miss Praddon once wrote a thrilling
little story of a man following a circus troupe
round the country. This individual always paid
for a front seat, came in just before the “ Lion
King ” fooled about with some wild beasts, and
went away Immediately afterwards. Finally, the
stranger’s patience was rewarded, for one night
the lions were in an ill humour, and the unfor-
tunate “ king ” met his fate. Then the front seats
lost their old customer for ever. And doesn't
Zola tell of the old woman standing at her open
window to watch Coupeau at work on the lofty
scaffolding ? Directly he fell off, the old woman
shut down her window and went about her busi-
ness as usual. What infinite comfort must this
class of people derive from the contemplation of a
man of 60 balancing himself upon a high rope.
Mr. Yates has never forgiven the Prince
of Wales for what he considers the hostile action
of the Prince in the libel case brought by Lord
Lonsdale against the World. This is how he
now writes of His Royal Highness;—“Stoke Park,
near Slough, is to be turned at once into a club,
with racecourse, pigeon-shooting, lawn-tennis,
archery grounds, and a specialty for Sunday din-
ners. The committee sounds like a small edition
of the peerage, and the name of a noble lord is
mentioned as managing director. This will be too
delightful. The place has hitherto been known in
connection with an old fool named Gray, who
wrote some snivelling verses in the churchyard.
Now we shall have H.R.H. and his * pals,’ all the
frisky matrons, all ihe American young women,
all the drags and landaus and cigarettes, plenty of
• the Boy,’ no end of bookmakers, and all the re-
spectable population of Upton and neighbourhood
scandalised by the ‘ half-drunk leaning over the
half-draped" In the return journey on Sunday
night.” Mr. Yates 1s right on every point except
with regard to the deceased poet. Gray knew
better than to write his verses in a damp grave-
vard, with a tombstone for a seat, a cold chill
striking through his pants, and a caterpillar crawl-
ing up his leg. He did his poem by the aid of
brandy and water at home, and the only sound
that broke the solemn stillness was the voice of
Mrs. Gray as she exclaimed, “ I say, you, aren’t
you going to give that hogwash best and come to
bed ?”
It has at last been definitely ascertained
that the Hon. Pat. Perkins, of Queensland, was not
aboard the Ly-ee-Moon, a circumstance which has
caused considerable surprise. For several years
past ho has been in almost every wreck that has
taken place on the coast, and with the single ex-
ception of the Flying Dutchman, he has experi-
enced more vicissitudes than any man in these
colonies. He has come ashore astride empty
whisky-barrels, attached to broken spars, and
clinging to almost every article of furniture
known in modern times. He has been dragged
through the raging surf by the collar, or the hair,
or anything else that his rescuers could catch hold
of; he has been saved from the hungry waves by
the exertions of a pirate, who laid the hand of
violence upon his coat-tails; and, in short, he has
returned from the vasty deep in all sorts of undig-
nified ways. Now he is reduced to dodging Pro-
vidence by taking his saloon ticket and then
travelling by rail, or by booking with one steamer
and then disguising himself and going by another;
or, on a great emergency, by engaging a passage
in half-a-dozen different vessels, and then, staying
ashore and going to bed for a week lest he should
be run over by an omnibus. The reason of his
ill-luck has not yet been discovered, but he
appears to be haunted by misfortune at sea, and a
captain with the Hon. Pat. Perkins aboard would
do well to keep 150 miles off the coast, tie a life-
buoy to each passenger, and have prayers read on
deck at intervals of five minutes, until ho finds
himself once more safe in harbour,


Marie Brizard I
My medical experience satisfies me that Wolfe’s
Schnapps Is an excellent stimulant.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floralj decorations, 60J-6 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
SEVERAL of the awards to St. Louis
LAGER BEER, which consists of Gold Medals and
Diolomas won at the Amsterdam Exhibition, 1883,
Paris Exhibition, 1878, Philadelphia Exhibition,
1876, and Southern States Exposition, New Orleans,
1885, will be on view at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s
New Music Warehouse, Corner of King and George
streets, in a few days. The Agents for the Beer
having heard of statements which might tend to
convey an impression that St Louis Beer had not
gained the high honours as stated, resolved to have
the original awards in Australia that the public
might judge for llself.
There is no better judge for what is geod than
Germans—They always drink Wolfe's Schnapps.
Marie Brizard 1
HBA T R B
ROY A L
Williamson, Gabnbb and Musgbotb, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
A ROUSING WELCOME
to those favourite actors,
The WILLIAMSONS,
MAGGIE MOORE and J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in their perennial drama,
STRUCK OIL
STRUCK OIL
STRUCK OIL.
JOHN STOFEL Mr. Williamson.
LIZZIE STOFEL Miss Maggie Moore.
And the intensely amusing topical Farce the
CHINESE QUESTION.
The Williamsons in their original characters.
Business Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereaqh-street,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee .. ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampler.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
INDESCRIBABLE SENSATION.
UNMISTAKABLE ENTHUSIASM.
CREATED BY THE BRILLIANT PRODUCTION*
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Popular Prices—Dress Circle 3s„ Stalls 3a., Pit Is,
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
aA IE IJ THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
A PERFECT FURORE GREETS ADOLA,
The Beautiful Lady Athlete, actually shot from
a Monster Gun 39 feet from the stage to the Dome
of the Theatre, and caught hand to hand by
OHMY.
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. W. Hughes.
Agent H. J. Samuel.
a
AIETY THEATRE-
MATINEE.
GRAND AMATEUR DRAMATIC PERFOR-
„ , MANGE of
H. J. Byron's Sparkling Comedy, in 3 acts,
OUR DOTS,
in AID of the
LY-EE-MOON RELIEF FUND,
will be given on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, the 36th June.
Doors open at 34 to 3. Curtain rises at 34 past 3.
Carriages to be ordered for 1.45.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency the Right Honourable Baron CAR-
RINGTON, &8„ &8., Lady Carrington, and Suite
Admiral Tryon and the Officers of H.M. Squadron
Major- General Richardson and officers of the staff
Colonel Roberts, C.M G., Commanding Officer New
South Wales Artillery
Major M’Donald and Officers of Cavalry Reserve
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., President of the
Legislative Council
The Hon. Ed. Barton, Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly
His Worship the Mayor and the Aldermen of
Sydney
His Honor Sir William Manning, K.C.M.G.
Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Patrick Jennings, K.C.M.G., M.P,
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, M.P.
Hon. J. H. Want, M.P,
Hon. W. J. Lyne, M.P,
Hon. J. P. Garvan, M.P.
W. J. Trlckett, asq , M.P.
R. Butcher, Esq., M.P.
F. T. Humphrey, Esq., M.P.
J. Purves, Esq., M.P.
&0., &e„ &c,
RESERVED SEATS
GALLERY ..
53.
38.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s Music Warehouse,
George-street.
An American novelty will be introduced be-
tween the Ist and 3ad acts by Messrs. Eahlo and
Kitterlng, gentlemen amateurs. A Banjo and
Harmonioon duet.
“OUR
Sir Geoffrey Champneys,
Baronet
Talbot Champneys, (his
son)
Perkyn Mlddlewick (a
retired Butterman) .
Chfaarles Mlddlewick (his
son)
Kempster (a Servant) .
Goddles (a Butler)..
Mary Melrose I
Violet Melrose! CouBina
Clarissa Champneys (Sir
Geoff’s sister) ..
Belinda (a lodging-house
slave)
BOYS.”
Mr. George Labertouohe
. Mr. G. Norton Bussell
. Mr. Victor Cohen
. Dr. W. Edward Warren
. Mr. E. Collen
. Mr. W. A. Drake
Miss Vallentine
Miss Eleanor Sandeman
Mrs. Victor Cohen
Miss Florence Sandeman
The whole produced under the supervision
Mr. B. N, Jones.
G. NORTON RUSSELL 1 Hon.
EDWARD J. H. KNAPP f Secs.
All communications to be addressed to Mr. Ed-
ward J. H. Knapp, Trustee Ly-ee-Moon Fund,
Wentworth- court, Ellzabeth-street.
0 A D 1 M T 0 T MUSIC.
lessee B. Hiscocks.
The Fashionable and Popular Resort.
The Greatest Hit of All achieved again Last Night
with the new programme, and the Great
Versatile Artist BARLOW,
In his character sketches with
HISCOCK’B FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
The Great Double Quartette—“THE LETTER.”
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTBLSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
Academy of music.
NEXT SUNDAY EVENING.
Prof, and Mrs. Baldwin’s illustrated Spiritual
lectures. House crowded to suffocation last Sun-
day. People most ill from laughing so much Next
Sunday the weird materialization—“ You can see
and recognise your dead friends,” so the pape rs
say. Spiritual humbug exposed. A great moral
lesson. Oceans of fun. Waves of laughter. Bil-
lows of mirth. Thundering applause. Must come
early to get a seat. Admission only 6d. and Is.
Dsorsopen at 6.30, commence at 7.15, Music, singing
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Newcastle, Farewell Performances, Victoria
Theatre, Friday and Saturday, 35th and 33th June.
Maitland, Victoria Theatre, Monday and Tuesday,
38th and 39 th June. Morpeth, School of Arts, Wed-
nesday, 30th June. Raymond Terrace, Stroud,
Taree, Port Macquarie, Kempsey, Grafton, &0.,
&0., to follow.
Sydney Farewell season (prior to departure for
South Africa and Great Britain), August and Sep-
tember. JAMES SMITH,) .
H. B. BARNES,! A « eata -
E
EXHIBITION BUILDING
THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
LAST WEEKS LAST WEEKS.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr. Willard begs to announce to the general
public that, in consequence of the Exhibition
Building being pre-engaged for an Industrial
Exhibit, the stay of the Japanese must necessarily
be a brief one, and although in
THB ZENITH OF SUCCESS,
Thousands visiting the Village dally,
he has determined upon making the price of
admission
ONE SHILLING,
to enable all to witness this Most Novel Extra*
ordinary Amalgamation of Theatrical and
Industrial Incongruities,
THB ARABIAN NIGHTS RE-DIVIVA.
Tickets are for sale at W. H. Paling’s and Nichol-
son and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
THEATRE ROYAL,
R®«khampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boling*
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructors
D
OBBYNS’ HALL,
Junee Junction.
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ado
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
ARTHUR MARTIN COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
Patron: His Excellency, Baron Carrington,
K.C.M.G.. P.C.;
President: The Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
Eleventh Annual Bail,
under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
JOHN YOUNG, Esq..
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised to bd
present.
Will, be held In the
TOWN HALL,
ON THURSDAY, JULY 22,
and that the number of guests will Positively
be limited to 300.
Tickets for same are obtainable from members
of the Committee, and the undersigned only.
R. A. K EDDIE. Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Secretary,
Telegraph Department.
MASON BROTHERS
EXHIBIT!
■
LIMITED.
263 to 269 Sent Street,,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA.
AXD
EARTHE W WARE,
WINES, BEERS, AWD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYEN’B
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
T
|HB PBBSH POOD AND
(Limited)
ICB COMPANY
have Opened a
BRANCH DBFOI
▲I
Mo- 23 Royal Arcade,
Where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, Jto„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for
by their carts.
They hare also taken oyer the Agency for
"KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food and fee Co., Limited ,
Head Office..
Stab! -.
factory
•St
... SI Harbour-street.
.. Llverpool-atreef.
m* Mlttagong.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
A “Second Junior Cricket Association”
they call itl Why, the promoters of it are veterans
with straightforward foreheads and iron-grey
flowing beards, besides being rejected senior
players. We would appreciate the formation of
an association which would only take in young-
sters under 31 years of age. Bat when individuals
of the aged class show a desire to dub themselves
second juniors It is time to step in and expose
the absurdity of such a movement.
m * •
Rather a bitter disappointment to the
friends of the Junior Intercolonial cricketing
team which visited Victoria recently, after the
glowing accounts that reached Sydney of the ex-
traordinary attendances which gathered at all the
matches I When the finances were wound up
the result was only a paltry £3O to the goodl
* ■ *
C. W. Rook, who played for the Gentlemen
of England against the Australians, is a native of
Tasmania, where he was educated at a school con-
ducted by Mr. Thistle. Rock, at this school, won an
exhibition or scholarship to Clare College, Cam-
bridge, where he soon distinguished himself in the
cricket field. He is described by Lillywhlte as a
“ very straight, slow round-arm bowler, with con-
siderable spin; sure catch and steady batsman—a
capital all-round man.”
* * *
Says theT. and O. Journal:—“The Mel-
bourne bicyclists are greatly annoyed with the
Sydney Suburban Bicycling Club in disqualifying
Con Dwyer for the five miles’ championship race.
A large number have expressed their intention
not to visit or recognise the Sydney meetings in
future. Some of the bookmakers also refuse to
pay on the event.” Why, until the Sydney
bicyclists visited the Cabbage Garden, the Vic-
torian bicycling people were as poor as the pro-
verbial church mouse, so perhaps they will bottle
up a little of their indignation when they settle
down and think calmly over the matter. As for
the bookmakers, that’s where the rub comes in,
for Dwyer was backed by the Victorian contin-
gent for the treble event. Tee referee who gave
the decision is one of the very few bona Me
amateurs worthy of the name, and, if the book-
A TOUGH FLUID.
BROWN: “HOW’S THE STEAK?”
JONES: “HEAVEN ONLY KNOWS, I CAN’T GET MY FORK THROUGH THE GRAVY.”
makers who refuse to “part” are registered, a
reference by the winners to the Jockey Clubs
may go a long way towards persuading these
layers of odds to pay up.
• • *
Captain Gascoigne’s 10-ton importation,
the Carina, has gone to the Longford shed to be
coppered and rigged. We saw her on board the
Tweedale, and were much impressed with the im-
ported one, so much as we could see of her on the
vessel's deck, and will be much mistaken if,
given proper sparring and handling, she does not
knock spots off anything of her tonnage in the
harbour. Her lines are fine, with a beautifully
clear run aft to a very long counter, and if there
is any fault to be found, it is in the bow, which is
a shade hollow. We are not aware whether the
gallant captain handles the tiller himself, but if
he does, for the reputation of the Imported one,
it Is to be hoped he will make a better show with the
pickhandle than his fellow aide did in the pigskin
at the recent amateur meeting, on which occasion,
by the way, Bertie did not escape a roasting from
the Government House party, who welcomed his
return to the paddock with “We told you how
’twould be, Barty, we told you how ’twould be.”
* ♦ *
Victor and Graham are still hard at it in
the newspapers over their recent wrestling match,
and the versatile little Frenchman pays N.B.W.
the compliment of saying that he will only wrestle
in Sydney in luture matches, as he has no show of
winning in Melbourne. This is all very well, but
we should like to have Miller’s and Farnan’s
opinion on the matter. There’s a deal in a name.
When Graham was in Bownlng, N.8.W., travelling
with Donald Dinnie, he kindly offered to knock
out any man in the audience, but without response,
although, there were a| couple of rough bush-
fighters present who could have “ downed ” him
before you could say “knife.” But then they
didn’t know a Sydney amateur had knocked Mr.
Graham out in less than - well, 10 hours.
* * *
An old veteran of the Australian ring re-
appeared in public the week before last in an
attempt to knock-out—this time with the aid of
Judge Windever—his successful opponent In a
late municipal election at North Shore. We have
a faint recollection of receiving a little coaching
ourselves from the versatile Thomas in his palmy
days, when running his “ academy ” at the Shoah.
Those were good old days, however. None of
your prancing, light countering, and such child’s
play. You kept your hands going like quartz-
stampers, and if your opponent put his head in
your way it got hurt. Wo recollect ononeocca-
sion, Tommy, gentle tutor as he was, countering
us smartly on the bugle,and our tutor’s glove was
scarcely off our face when the carmine squirted to
the other sde of the room. “ Nose bleeding ?”
satdTommy. "No,” we replied; “it’s gushing.”
; n tJ.*? 80 da y f ’« Tommy’s conversation was more
forcible than elegant, and he could roll out more
adjectives in a given time than Davy Buchanan
and Jack M’Elhone rolled into one. But Sir
Bnery’s refining influence has been at work, and
Tommy is now one of the saved on the golden
Shoah.
* * *
The man who did not back the baseless
fabric of a dream, but who kept his eyes well
peeled, and his ears on full cock, and stood on his
own judgment solely, struck it rich at the recent
Randwick Grand National. He was a Cabbage
Garden “battler,” bight George Marsden, and
starting off with a 3 sovs. investment, played his
game so well, that he went home a winner of
oyer £9OO. Putting his pair of “canaries” on
“ Veroneekew ” (as the talent called Veronique) at
5 to 1 he pocketed his original stake (£3), and put
the tenner on Keith when the colt was 7to 3, This
made him master of £45, and he at once put £l5
in his pocket, and took £45 to £3O about Elling-
ton for the Selling Plate, and landing this, he
staked £75 on Studley for the Steeple at threes to
one. Having scooped the pool, he put the total
£3OO on Dunlop, at two to one, and as the colt
romped home the lucky “gumsucker” found he
had netted £915 by his day’s work. This was
better tban doing the bank-manager business, and
almost as good as “ making a profit out of the
Government.”
• * *
Is there really any truth in the assertion
that a certain ex-banker dropped the nice little
pile of £33 000 by standing flat on a “ moral cer-
tainty ” for the Hawkesbury Handicap ? And if
so, was one of the level-headed quartette who
skinned the lamb on this occasion a brother
banker ? The horse could have walked in (bar ac-
cidents), but was scratched at the last moment,
and when he was a red-hot favourite at 3 to 1.
• • •
The grandiloquent title of Champion Aus-
tralian Native Billiard Player is assumed by H.
Gray. Considering that Harry Evans could easily
concede 1000 points in 3000 to any man in the colo-
nies, Gray claims a rather barren honour. Talking
of billiards, we notice that John Roberts has suc-
ceeded in making a break of 500 in a “spot-
barred ” game. There is a champion, indeed.
* * *
The New Zealanders are expecting great
kings of their English bred colt, Lochiel. His
pedigree, by Prince Charlie—Nellie Moore, doesn’t
sound like staying. Prince Charlie himself was the
most magnificent of roarers, and most of his stock
have been touched in the wind.


SO3IAL FIXTURES.
St. Kilda Soda's (second dance) School
ot Arts, B iimaln.. June 25.
American Garden Party, Botany July 4.
American Ball, Town Mail July 4.
The Mercantile Rowing Ciub Ball, Town
Hall July 22.
Marie Briz ird I
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be In every Camp
Chest.
B
RADLEY* NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EA&Y CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al!
to match.
W 7:
S 3
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably tie
bolstered, at all prices. Bradley* NelVtoil;
and Lamb.
m
o K PIANOFO&TE*
dt/OO guaranteed
sound, strong, and
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case*
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
Occasional tables in ail woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
Tfiir;
e
a
AV
ALNUT FALL.
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple-
Inkstand, Receptacles 4or.
Stamps, and Ruler and. Item
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of qplprg-
ing or diminishing the space when Locks
automatically. One of the most useful comma ,
dions, and perfectly-planned articles for.-tfee Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably spited, to the
necessities of professional and busipess men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Coppell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS,, effective designs.-.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Larnby,
O’Connell-street.
L_.. ,i
Drawing room: cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen.,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.-
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
h
w
(ALNUT REVOLVING 1
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and i--
tier —a desideratum for the Barris-
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bencli;-
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially'
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, abdi Lanifc
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
mm
13 EVOLVING S'flO'W
IV S'tANI)S,.
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, <5?
Fancy GoOfe
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can he
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
J
Bedsteads, an sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black,
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and '
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
ĥ
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Cd.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SOCIAE
on Thursday evening, 17th inst., Mr. and
M 2. n c T j
as? a^saM 1 SSHS
ss
s?Te"‘blAa weTe foworn. tbe M,.„s
«rirl and was composed of black satin anu
a£4Mcs^ T ®.S®*ips
?at - a tall aristocratic-looking young lady wore a
oreamsatln, elaborately
hereof other pretty dresses and pretty wearers also.
op % *
On Wednesday afternoon, 10th inst., the
marriage of Miss Palmer and Mr. Ernest Milford
of Queensland, took place at St. MarKS, i^ariiuK
Point, Sydney. The ceremony w asp 8 * ® d t V
-ij Kemmis. The entrance to the
?hftncel h w?s appropriately decorated-a lovely
and long tulle veil were also worn, xne omy
bridesmaid was Miss Lizzie Paimer, who wore a
costume of eau-de-nil crepe cloth, with a stylish
tall hat en sui'e. Four pretty. £t*l« 'ladies carnei
baskets of tuberoses and other dainty nowers,
and scattered them upon the Waver-
left the church. The party then drove to wave
lev where light refreshments were partaken of,
amidst rice and slippers and good wishes tee
bride and bridegroom left for their heneymoon at
Melbourne. *
Australian journalism is progressing with
the times! In the past, the reading public was
content to have its papers written by ordinary
pressmen. But this could not be expected to last
who'haiTsatisfled a^un^Vitleal public should give
nionft to writers a little more on the social level
trodden by the descendants of “ early shipments.
The Argus eye that glances from the ot the
Town and Country Jienil has noted this
change, and, determined to be in the van of jour-
nalism. has reconstructed its stalf. The eminent
Mr Tames Hoffue remains* and so does Angus,
but, as the following announcement shows, there
has been joined with them one who will All the
void previously referred to. This is the little
P “Letters from a Peeress.-We have teen enabled
to arrange with one of the most accomplished
Tieeresses in Eogland-a daughter of a powerful
duke—for a fortnightly letter descriptive ofthe
leaders of society and the most notable social
events,” —and so on.”
So soars ambition, Henniker, of Canterbury,
would have no daughter of a fifth-rate article
not a child of one of your mean undersized Peers—
but only that of a powerful duke. Th «
picture creates is immense—it simply bllnos us.
When we come to the letter itself we at once de-
tect that no common hand guides the pen. We,
who have never been on terms with a royal
Bouillon, hold our breath as the peeress.light!? and
easily tells of things upon which no vulgar .mind
would dare to expatiate. It requires centuries of
t»ure gore to “grapple with the hidden things of
Fifelnd till their tale.” For instances (the gifted
peeress Is writing): “ At the drawing-rooms the
Qvfeen is not really standing, though she appears
to be (artful old dame). Under her manteau de
eour, or court train, without which no lady can
appear at a drawing-room, is concealed a tall stool
on which her Majesty really sits, while to all ap-
pearances she stands to receive her loyal ladies.
(This must have been the origin of the im-
prover.”) “ When,” continues the gifted writer,
‘‘ she is driving, too, her shortness is not perceived,
lor the royal body is not wanting in length; it la
only the royal legs (italics ours) w fhl
so phenomenally short. We always knew that the
royal head had no depth—and the royal figure no
waist—but, says the powerful duke s daughter,
“ the royal legs have no length. Continues the
lady: “ The Royal hoots (our .italics again) are
absolutely devoid of any sort of heel, and en pas-
sant, it may he noticed that the royal dresser Is
not always sufficiently careful to tuck In the
• tags ’ of the royal elastio-slded boots, which it
pleases her Majesty to wear. Later on, ( the
gifted writer rakes up this old scandal. .The
tragic story and end ot poor Lady Flora Hastings,
and the box on the ear administered to the maid
of honor, whose good looks had innocently called
forth an expression of praise from the Great and
Good’ Prince Consort, should perhaps only be
looked upon as gracious proofs which her Majesty
condescends to give that she is but human after all.
W© shall eagerly look for the next letter, and the
next. O Grovel, thy name is Jernill
The many friends of Mr. and Mrs. Laber-
touohe will read with interest the English papers
which announced that their charming daughter,
Mrs. Loftus, wife of the son of the late Governor,
of New South Wales, was presented to the Queen
on the sth of May. Lady Augustus accompanied
her daughter-in-law, and looked extremely well
in her handsome “presentation” dress. Mrs.
Loftus wore a beautiful underskirt and bodice of
white satin profusely trimmed with wonderful
lace; the court train was rich white brocaded
silk; her jewellery was chiefly diamonds. Several
other colonists were also presented at the same
drawing-room.
♦ ♦ ♦
A charming ball- dress is a bodice and
train of moss-green velvet, the train turned up at
the left corner, showing a piece of magnificent
brocade, the design, lilac, on a pale-blue ground;
on the right side of the train are butterflies of
every size and hue, with gemmed wings. The
front of the dress is a mass of silver tissue, from
which, held by silver threads, drop jewel-like
sequins of transparent marine-green crystal, tiny
pleatings of the brocade show through the silver
tissue. Another lovely dress is of white and gold,
the skirt of crepe de chine, the drapery caught by
bunches of golden barley, the train of white,
brocaded with golden barley-ears.
i ♦ '
The Owl Club held their fifth annual ball
at Svdnev Town Hall, on 18th inst., which was
attended by nearly 200 people. There were many
fi mart dresses, good music, and a good supper.
° * * *
Judge and Mrs. Forbes, who for some
years past have lived in Double Bay, have given
ho their residence, and Mrs. Forbes has arranged
to accompany the Judge on his country journeys.
B • *
“ At Goulburn district court, Emma Bates,
a widow with nine children, demanded £3OO dam-
ages from Alfred Cady, a widower, having eight
children, in a case of breach of promise of mar-
riage.” It appears Alf. was quite ready, but for
some unknown reason his eight children object
to have a “flush ” of nine brothers and sisters. Yet
Emma felt she had not been enough married. And
so did Alfred—his paternal heart yearned for more.
He pointed out that 17 children under one root
was the next best thing to salvation. But his eight
couldn’t see it. The result was that the old man
had to “ pass,” and then Emma went for him. The
jury reckoned up his value to Emma at £Bo—a
pretty low figure considering hla previous history.
The Judge gave costs on the highest scale.
* * •
Captain Terry and Captain Sherriff,
A’s.D.C., who accompanied Hon. Miss Harbordto
Melbourne, returned to Sydney on Tuesday, the
33nd.
9 * *
A party of about 30 people enjoyed them-
selves thoroughly at a moonlight picnic on Monday
evening, the 14th. They started in a comfortable
yacht from Circular Quay and landed at Fig Tree
Island, where they danced in the pavilion to the
accompaniment of a good band. Amongst the
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Salmond, Miss Palmer,
Mrs. Henry White, Mr. Ernest Milford, Mr.
Hughes, &o.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Bailli© have issued cards of
Invitation for a dance to be hold at their residence,
Havilah, Woollahra, on Wednesday evening, 33rd.
♦ * *
“Holt, the defaulter, has been relieved
from solitary treatment in Parramatta Gao), and
sent to get medical comforts in the hospital. It is
said he is suffering from gout.” If one believed
what the Sydney dally papers say there is some-
thing brutal in the way we treat our criminals.
Not satisfied with giving them the luxuries of
life, we actually feed them up until they get gout!
The next thing we will hear of is that the Attorney-
General has ordered Holt a double dose of cham-
pagne and devilled kidneys—there teems to be no
limit to the barbarity of the Administration in re-
gard to this criminal. Deprived of her Maj sty 8
uniform—his hair long and flowing, moustache soft
and soaped—his diet aldermanio, and his society the
cream of Potts Point, Holt will rapidly degenerate
into a habitual criminal of the Kent-street type.
Fancy how unfitted he will be to resume his old
place in Elizabeth Bay society if this state of
things is to continue 1 Did we not know that it
is the intention of the authorities to let him go as
soon as he has audited and vouched for the ac-
curacy of the prison account-books, borrowed all
the small change in the gaol, and opened an ac-
count with the 8.N.Z., we would call further at-
tention to this flagrant attempt to treat Holt other
than as a common criminal.
* * *
The newest things for bonnets is coral leaf
brought from the Bahamas. It was recommended
by the English Consul at the Bahamas. The leaf
dyes well, and when artistically used, makes a per-
fect poem in the way of heal-dress. It can be
made white and pink, and in black is lighter than
3et * *
Parramatta was very gay and animated
on Thursday afternoon on the occasion of His
Excellency the Governor distributing the prizes at
the King’s School. His Excellency, who was
accompanied by Lady Carington, Dr. Barry, the
usual A.’sD.C., and a few other distinguished
people, went to Parramatta by special train. The
newly-appointed head master, the Kev. Arthur
St. John Gray, who takes the place of that
honoured veteran, the Rev. O. F. Macarthur,
arrived in Sydney by the Sorata last week.
9 9 •
On Thursday evening, the 16th Instant,
the usual fortnightly assembly at Leigh House
took place, and was largely attended by young
folks. The floor was in capital dancing order, and
the music good. Amongst many rich and hand-
some toilettes displayed, a crimson underskirt,
with draperies of pale-blue tulle and white lace,
was very much admired. A fine-looking girl in
pale yellow cr6pe de chine, attracted much atten-
tion. A young lady was very successful in a frock
of pale-pink, with lace flounce, low bodice, and
short sleeves. An effective gown was black velvet,
profusely trimmed with yellow lace. A pretty
frock was white tulle, ornamented with pink. A
lady looked very well in a crushed strawberry
satin dress, bodice finished off with soft while lace.
An uncommon gown was composed of rich cream
silk, with quantities of seed pearl trimmings and
clusters of pale yellow flowers.
9 ■ * *
There wasn’t by any means too much
room to spare In Sydney Exhibition Building last
Monday, when Miss Young, the Mayoress held a
reception to celebrate the anniversary of Queen
Victoria’s accession to the throne. Visitors con-
tinued to stream in from 3 30 till nearly 4 o’clock,
and were] received by the Mayoress who was
attired in a handsome golden-brown striped silk
and plush dress, withlhieh hat to match), and the
Mayor in his robes. A varied programme was pro-
vided for the entertainment of the guests, consist-
ing of juggling tricks by the clever Japs., and musi-
cal selections by members of Mr. Younger’s Glee
Club. It is a thankless task singing in the Exhi-
bition Building, more especially when pro-
menading is going on all the time, so the musical
Sortion of the programme (with the exception of
re items given by Patek’s band) was rather
frosty. Refreshments were freely partaken of
during the afternoon, and, considering the crush,
the waiters got through their arduous task re-
markably well. Amongst the many handsome
costumes were the following: Lady Robertson, in
a black surah striped with velvet; Mrs. Moriarty,
a stylish tailor-made gown of dark bottle-green
cloth and military braid, bonnet ornate with pink
tufts; Mrs. Richardson, in black, and small bonnet
ornate with front bows of two shades of raspberry
ribbon; Mrs. 8. A. Joseph, in a very stylish
mantle, looked well; Mrs. Savage, a chic cos-
tume of grey; Mrs. Purves, stylish in a combina-
tion of brown striped silk and cream ribbed
cloth ornate with rosary pendants, long boa;
Mrs. George Brook, a charming costume of plum-
coloured surah and velvet, with small bonnet era
suite; Miss Maclean, black costume and steel-gray
plush; Miss Hogg (Melbourne) looked very stylish
in an iron-gray taflor-made cashmere, tall black
hat trimmed with red and black, and red sunshade;
Mrs. G. B. Simpson, in navy blue handsomely
braided; Miss Biunie Green, cashmere, mixed with
woollen brocade; the Misses Knight wore very
pretty black costumes; Miss Nell, in gray, with
cone-shaped ruby velvet hat; Miss Devlin, a very
striking costume of bright terracotta cashmere
and striped velvet; the Misses Hardie, brown
cashmere and plush, tall silk hats ornate with
dove-coloured birds: Mrs. Dr. Service, a tastefully-
made prune dress, shortly after 4 o’clock the
National Anthem was struck up by the band. The
people took the hint and departed after spending a
very pleasant afternoon.
* * *
Judge and Miss Josephson have issued
invitations for a fancy-dress ball to be held in
Sydney Town Hall on the evening of July the 7th.
An engagement is announced in Mel-
bourne between Miss Amy Rlcketson, daughter of
Mr. W. Rlcketson, of Glennary-road, Caulfield,
Melbourne, and Mr. Menzles, of Balaclava, Mel-
bourne.
9 ■ *
An engagement is announced between
Miss Dolly Lelbius, daughter of Mr.Leibius,;Parra.
matta, and Dr. Williams, of Parramatta.
9 * *
On Thursday evening, the 17th, Mr. and
Mrs. James R. Fairfax entertained a small circle
of friends at dinner. Amongst the guests were
Mr., Mrs. and Miss Busby, Mr. and Mrs. Ross, Mr.
Slade, Mr. Barnard Wls», &3. Two other dinner-
parties were given on Thursday evening also—by
Admiral Tryon, and the Hon, James White.
* 9 *
Despite threatening weather on Friday
night a very large number of ladies and gentle-
men assembled at Need’s rooms where the
Woollahra assembly was held. The affair wss a
decided success, although the room was very
crowded. The weather notwithstanding, many
of the ladies wore pretty light dresses. The two
Misses Sandeman appeared to great advantage in
pretty white satin and tulle dresses. Miss M’Creay
was very conspicuous in pale pink frock with
bunches of pink flowers; Miss Evans wore a taste-
ful frock of white silk and tulle ; Miss Harper at-
tracted attention in a sea-blue costume; Miss
Levlen was pretty and piquant in all black; the
Misses Hardy wore elegant frocks of pink and
white respectively; Mrs. Mair wore a tasteful
toilette of pale-coloured satin and tulle; the two
Misses Oxhenby looked ektremely well in helio-
trope costumes. .
* + *
Dr, Thomas Chambers, of Sydney, may
bless his stars that the hard-fought action brought
against him last week, and which, had it been suc-
cessful, might have deprived h'm not only of
£3OOO damages, but of the high professional repu-
tation brought by him to this country from
Europe, was heard by a more than ordinarlly-ln-
telligent jury—who decided in his favour by 11 to
1. The public is strongly of opinion that the
balance of testimony was overwhelmingly on the
doctor’s side, and his medical brethren, among
whom no one has a higher reputation for probity
and professional skill, thoroughly concur in the
jury's verdict.
♦ ♦
Marulan (N'.S.W.) plunged for lawn tennis
some time ego, and Taralga, to get a distinct bulge
on its rival, went one better and got off a ladies
cricket match with heaps of eclat. And now a
wild rumour is current that Crookwell is about to
exhibit forty, fair, feminine footballers. The en-
terprise of these country towns is simply marvel-
lous.
* * •
St. Peter and St. Paul’s Church, Albert
Park, Melbourne, was the scene of a quiet, though
pretty wedding, on Tuesday, the 15tn Inst., when
Mrs. Phoebe Kemp was married to Mr. Henri
Coutouly, of Melbourne. The late Mr. R. Kemp
was once upon a time a member of the N.B.W.
Legislature.
♦ * •
Miss Mary Cooper, daughter of Sir Daniel,
was married at Bt. Peter’s church, Cranely Gar-
dens, Kensington, lately. The bridegroom was
Mr. N. BalfreyJßurrell, Consul at Port Said. The
bride, who was led to the altar by her father,
wore a beautiful gown of light cream sa'in richly
trimmed with valenciennes lace and orange-
blossoms, a spray of the same flowers in her hair,
and tulle veil fastened by diamond stars, the gift
of her father; her only other ornameat being a
diamond brooch, me gift of her sister. The four
maids were the Misses Ella and Margaret Green (tha
bride’s nieces), Miss Lena Cooper (Sydney), and
Miss Rose Stephenson, cousin of the bridegroom.
The presents were very numerous a id costly.
* * *
The annual ball of the Sydney Owl Club,
which came off last Thursday night in the Town
Hall, attracted quite * brilliant throng. Some of
the ladies’ dresses were tasteful in the extreme,
notably a white satin and tulle setoff with hand-
some pearl fringe; a lovely cream satin and lace,
worn by Mrs. Burns; a pale blue brocade with
an enormous train, and a black net garnished with
amber velvet bows and (ity amber birds, were
also admired. Miss Pattie Brown wore a charming
costume of pale heliotrope satin veiled with hand-
some white lace; and Mrs. Bailey, a shaded old
gold satin. The catering was well managed, and
the music excellent.
♦ * *
The Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney have
signified their Intention of being present at the
M.R.C. ball at the Town Hall, July 33.
* * *
The first winter dance of the season was
held at Eorbes on the llth Inst.
♦ ♦ *
The Orange Mercantile Quadrille Assem-
bly have made a fresh start. Their gatherings are
held in the Caledonian Hall every other Thursday
—to-night being one of the others.
♦ * *
A pleasant musical soiree was given in the
Town Hall last Wednesday week by the very
youthful members of Monsieur E. C. Cailliau’s
singing class.
• * *
Miss Pedley gave herself a benefit concert
last Wednesday night week. It was a fashionable
affair, under the patronage of Lady Carlngton,
and was held in the dismal old Protestant Hall,
which, however, was considerably livened up by
flowers, ferns, &o. The beneficiaire conducted,
and also sang two solos. That the lady can sing
goes without saying, being a? she i 3, a nieca of
the late Madame Sainton Dolby, how should It bo
otherwise ? But it’s questionable wisdom to spend
so much time and culture over a voice which is
neither very powerful nor of the best quality.
“ Florimel,” a cantata composed by Madame
Sainton Dolby, was fairly sung by tho members
of St. Cecilia’s choir, Miss Eva Thompson singing
the solo part? very sweetly. Miss Woolley, who
has lately returned from a trip home, assisted
materially at the concert; Herr Patek, Mr. Brewer,
and Mrs. Berry Trinan also gave valuable aid.
« * ♦
The true moral of the escape of the Rev.
Mr. Dyson from hanging with Mrs. Bartlett, or by
himself, Is, that young clerics should not look
upon married ladles as their own property until
they’re widows, and even then they must remem-
ber that platonic affection may leal to conse-
quences more nearly connected with the census re-
turns taan with our old friend Plato. Protestant
Standard please copy.
* * *
Says a home paper: “ Since the departure
of her husband, the Duchess of Edinburgh has
evidently determined to let time hang heavily on
her hands-but ” and so on. We Insert this in
the interests of Edinburgh, who’s away at Malta,
and may not receive a copy of the small English
3° urnal * *
The cards of invitation issued by the
Mayor of Sydney for his Queen’s Jubilee banquet
have afforded the town no end of amusement.
They are a foot long, and are, it is intimated, “ in-
tended for preservation.” The card Is a nightmare
of blue and green and gold and various other
colours, and, in fact, just the sort of thing one
might expect to emanate from the London Guild-
hall on the occasion of an extra-heavy turtle-
gorge. If by any chance the royal eye of Queen
Victoria should happen to alight upon this
gorgeous material embodiment of Mayor Young’s
bidding, at least one Sydney citizen will be either
killed right off or made into a duke.
« «• #
One rather often reads of English ladies
eloping with their grooms. But one does not
often hear of a Sydney lady, in good society, con-
sorting with a cabman,
• • 9
Mr. Boyer-Warner, formerly Secretary of
Defence in B.A , was lately married at St. James’,
Piccadilly, London, to Miss Alice de Worms,
daughter of Baron Henry de Worms. The happy
pair will not visit Australia, but will reside at the
bridegroom’s seat. Quora Hall, Leicestershire.
• • e
The pretty daughter of a very old Sydney
ex Civil servant will shortly wed a recently-
imported widower, holding a h'gh offleia )position
in Victoria.
♦ * *
The little oligarchy at the Sydney Univer-
sity announced through thtir own particular
organ, the Herald, that no complimentary
tickets would be issued for tha Greek play on
Mond jy and Tuesday last. Theie was no occasion
for tha complimentary tickets, as the little
oligarchy had given a rehearsal to a “ select audi-
ence ” oq the previous Saturday.


Marie B.izardl
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments. You cannot err by using it.
MORE THAN A C URIOSITY.
“ What is a curiosity ? sister Maude,” asked
dear little Hilda. “ Curiosity is something that is
very strange, sister.” “If Walter brought you
home a cask of that famous Anheuser Busch St.
Louis Lager Beer, would that be a curiosity?”
“ No, Maud, that would be a miracle.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
ector of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally.
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address;-313 George-street,
second floor.*
Pcarcely less rare than a black tuiip, a red-
haired negro, or a four-leaved shamrock, Is a milk-
white raven with pale pink eyes, red legs, and a
capacity to sing out that eight high-class cutters
are employed by the well-known merchant tailors,
Summerfleld and Company, 235 and 237 Pitt street,
Sydney,*
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
ScuNAit'S ii you would avoid bilious attacks.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET.
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry-
-3713 Flit-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALES
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werttieim Sewing ißachlne.
BEALE & CO.
Tha “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION.
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney-
6o^c Ht c ®
■»** if J° ° l °
4^ vv av s COn O
&lIAM
{ *T A^O t ,
Z°*»
_ tfS
°U°x°r
riA% *T »
pVMO^i
■23&«£
ħ
h
ĥ
SINGEK
and COi’s
Bicycled
4ND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap 4
JOHN HANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
R I N C E 8 S THEATRE
(Late Olympic.)
COMMENCING MONDAY, 38th JUNE.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY
of
HUGO'S BUFFALO MINSTRELS
and
r CIRCLE OF ACCOMPLISHED LADIES*
aftfr the most successful season ever known lii
Melbourne, viz., Four Months.
30 PERFORMERS 30
and our Pull Orchestra.
Entirely New Scenery, Dresses, &0., &d.
Lessee and Proprietor ... ... Charles Hugo*
Manager James Hugo.
LONDON POPULAR PRICES :
3»„ 35., Is., and SIXPENCE.
Department oi Public Works.
Sydney, June 33* IK6.
Tenders for public works ana sup-
pubs.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govsbnment Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender wIU be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notioe are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. Lmßi
SUNDRY SHOWS .
Tamiißi ROYAL—"Struck Oil” P. 7
Gaiety Theatre—“ Pun on the Bristol”... n
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Parce „
Royal Standard Theatre—” His Natural
Life ” »•
Exhibition Building—Japanese Village .. „
academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels
Victoria Theatre, Newcastle—Lynch
Family of Bsllringers »
The report which was circulated on Satur-
day night, that 11 persons had received fatal in-
juries in the heart-rending struggle for acpom-
modatlon at the Sydney Opera House was entirely
without foundation, but there was a very good
attendance all the same, and "The Rocket pro-
mises a certain amount of success. Mr. Wybert
Reeve, as the Chevalier Walkinshaw, officiates as
the principal Catherine-wheel in this pyrotechnic
display, while his son-in-law is the stick to which
ho is attached, end the fiery old gentleman goes
up amid a lurid glare of prosperity, and comes
down in the third act with an ignominious crash
which proves conclusively how transient is mere
earthly felicity. " All flesh is hay ’’-the Chevalier
is much too mature to he designated as grass—and,
under these circumstances, it Is no wonder he is
cut down. As a moral lesson, ‘‘The Ricket” is
fully equal to an average sermon, and we can
confidently say that, if written all over again, it is
capable of being one of the best pieces ever
performed in Australia.
* * *
The service is opened by an exhausted
dude, from whom we hear a pathetic story of a
gentleman who wrote to his mother and threaten ed
to blow out his brains on a post-card. When this
party is got rid of, a love scene commences, and an
enraged nobleman of the French empire cavorts
round amid some very attractive rural scenery,
and wants blood to wipe out the insult. Sad to re-
late, however, he does not get it, for the lover
compromises with two bottles of champagne, one
cigar, two £lO notes, and a promise to love, honour,
and maintain the deeply mortgaged chevalier for
the rest of his natural life. We have placed the
above figures before a professional accountant,
and he informs us that as the old gentleman de-
manded gore ana sought to soak the hotel and
landscape in blood, yet only received in satisfac-
tion the amounts specified, the dividend barely
reaches Ts. 6d. in the £. In the second act, how-
ever, the warrior's prospects improve. Not only
does he install himself in his future son-in-law s
mansion, but he makes love to that gentleman’s
mother, and the pair frisk amid the verdant groves
of fancy like two aged kittens in pursuit of a piece
of gritty liver tied to a string. Here, too, the
dude reappears, accompanied by a young widow
to whom he is affianced, and in the treble capacity
of lover, light porter, and dog nurse, he votes that
things in general are “ beastly.” Affairs move
so rapidly that we have just time to learn that
the Chevalier's supposed daughter is really only
his niece, that the lady’s father is in search of
her, that the young widow is the nobleman’s for-
mer wife who soothed his dying pillow until he
got well and ran away from her, and that he has
borrowed a further sum of £6O, when more
troubles arise. A procession of cc earns behind
the scenes again heralds the approach of the con-
fidant and companion-in-arms of the great Napo-
leon. Presently that gentleman limps in, explain-
ing that ha has been kicked on a point of honour,
and as he is unable to sit down, we are at once in
a position to learn the whereabouts of the point in
question, without the necessity of a triangulatlon
survey. But the entrance of his first wife forces
him to fly and get his hair cut, and assume various
disguises, and the curtain falls just as he arranges
to elope with the wldo w, while the dude chases his
mistress’s runaway pup in the background.
■ ■ •
Aot 111. is devoted to serving out large
square chunks of poetic justice all round, and tne
Cnevaller, with a vindictive wife fixed upon him,
an infuriated brother and an indignant niece
hopping around, a fat widow hangiog on to his
coat-tails when he tries to bury his sorrows in the
moaning sea, and with his hair cut, becomes an
object of pity. Even the dude has a kick at the
dead lion, for, finding h’s mistress is lost to him
for ever, he passes the canine Incubus ho has
nursed so long tor her sake, on to the fallen
Walkinshaw. Then the latter gentleman, gcaded
to madness, waves the ooatsleeve of scorn at his
enemies, and hurls defiance at everybody, white
he mechanically dry-nurses the dog to which he is
henoetorth to aot as a father, and all is over.
* * •
Mr. Wybert Reeve, as the Chevalier, bor-
rows money with the easy grace that comes of
long practice, and sticks to it with the calm facility
of an octopus. He plays his part so well that in
th© first act we would have lent him 53. ourselves,
and if he cares to consult the lost ten tribes-as
well as the other two, who, we hope, will shortly
lose themselves also—he will learn th® exact value
of this eulogy. At the same time, he overdoes the
part sufficiently to keep us, or any other living
mortal, from advancing 7s. 61. Mrs. Bryer,
in the character of a stout and kittenish
widow, is exceedingly good; and the same
may be said of Mr. Hoyt, whose family must
have been dudos since the conquest. As lor
Mr. Barley, who plays the part of the lover, he
would be an excellent young man to stand up
against the wall at a Sunday-school mufflu-
soramble, provided he did not move or say any-
thing; and the rest of the cast must take their
chance in our next issue.
* * * *
The Sydney <Theatre Royal was crowded
on Saturday night, on the occasion of the re-ap-
pearanoa of the Williamsons- A hearty welcome
was given to the old favourites. According* to
their own account the world has gone well with
them these last 10 years, and it is evident that T.me
has treated them with kindness. It is a pleasant
thing for one's eye to fall on people who have
prospered and are prospering. They are like
spots of light on a wide dark landscape. It is so,
we think, with the Williamsons. The spots would
in the case of all fortunate people yield pleasure
only that the mind behind the eye seeks the causes
of them, and sometimes detects the ways hy which
they were produced,
♦ ♦ *
So closely are the Williamsons connected
With the play of “ Struck Oil ” that the one sug-
gests the other.» There is great and healthy charm
in the simple story. Light and shadow alternate.
As a drama it is difficult to class. The way that
some of the songs and dances are iatrodueed
makes one feal that a new name wanted to de-
scribe this sort of enter talnment. But its first and
prominent quality is that it entertains. John
Stofel is a completo character. He is not a couple
of exaggerated attributes with the usual stage
filling. He possesses natural life throughout.
That also can be said of the mischievous captivat-
ing Lizzie Stofel. Miss Maggie Moore has gathered
up all tne meaning of the part. Tne mirth is rarely
laboured and the pathos la always true.
♦ * •
Even in Pennsylvania, and in the small
shocmaklng world of John Stofel, there is a vil-
lain. He dresses in black, wears a very white
collar, and assumes a solemn sanctimonious race.
That Is he adopts the appearance of a parson. To
deepen the impression of resemblance, he Is
known in the play as Bben Skinner, and is popu-
larly called the Descon. He is a mean knave.
He becomes wealthy, not altogether through the
exercise of his mean qualities, but concurrently
with the exercise. But what use is his wealth ?
He admits that though he can buy towns, he can-
not’, purchase the love of woman. That is always
where the mean man gets paid out even in this
life. A tyrant, a rascal, a fellow who kicks,
thumps, and swirls from orgy to orgy, may hold
captive the trembling heart of a .foyal-souled
woman. She will suffer, but she will pray, she
will hope, and till the last she will love.
There is no repord to show that a juean
man ever held for long this love. Meanness eats
away the qualities on which loye feeds. Itself a
royal, a ffivine passlon.it can consort with the
vaupl g barbarian in the primeval forest, but not
witfl, the pqckered, shrunken outcome of the moat
ignoble of the forces of civilisation. If caught
by accident and held for a time the woman will
close the scene by putting her finger to Iher nose
and leaving the miserable wretch Bitting in a
corner with the moneybag between his knees.
* * *
But in making up a villain why did the j
wri eiapof “ Struck Oil ” fashion out a person like a
parson.* It appears to us that this idea is becom-
ing overdone. Before the modern novelist, play-
wright, and caricaturists got loose, a very fine
antithesis was suggested in the contrast between
conduct and appearance. But the antithesis has
been worked to death. The idea has gone
down into the gutters. Every witling now
collars a person like a parson and drags him
out on the stage when ho wants to paint a villain.
Why does he not collar a person like himself ?
Monotony is abominable. And the original anti-
thesis is, we say, dead. As large a proportion of
parsons as of other people is honest. That, at
the very least. Why, then, nag away at one type ?
What if the poet got a turn as a villain ? or the
courageous, bold, outspoken, and only true
democratic journalist ?-[ Whatare you giving us ?
-Ed. B ]
» * •
The performance wound up with a farce
called ” The Chinese Question.” It is thin, but
the imitation given by Miss Moore, in the person
of Kitty M’Shane, of the vocal efforts of the
powerful music-hall soprano, rose high in its class.
* » *
Governor Carington and his wife were
present throughout the performance.
* * * *
There is nothing left to say regarding the
Widow O'Brien and her happy family at Sydney
Gaiety. The old lady herself shows no falling off,
and the two daughters who blessed her successive
unions with the noble houses of O’Brien and
Macallister are es successful as ever, while the
marine monster who endeavours to carry out
matrimonial projects for his unhappy son, remains
also untouched by the corroding finger of Time.
On Saturday afternoon an amateur performance
will he given in aid of the Ly-ee Moon Relief
Fund, when the public will have a chance to let
up the safety-valve on that overflowing benevo-
lence which must find an exit or burst. The piece
chosen for this occasion is “Our Boys,” and the
list of patrons is headed by Lord Carington, and
embraces an Admiral, a Major-General, a Colonel,
a Major, three Knights,six plain honourables. four
gentlemen described as “Esq.,” his Worship Mayor
Young, and a number of others. Attached to the
names are 36 capitals, denoting dignities of vary-
ing degree, and probably two or three more alpha-
bets might nave been appended if space had per-
mitted, so that there should be no lack of support.
«* * m
At the Sydney Princess’the shadow of a
deep sorrow still holds possession of the premises,
and the funeral commences every night at 8. The
performance is considerably improved, for there
Is less of it than during the opening week, but it
would be further benefited if there was less still.
Shaun, the piper, has been apparently civilised off
the face of the earth, and the same fate has be-
fallen a wrinkled old lady whose name is down in
the programme, and who has hitherto appeared
in order to contradict Darwin’s theory that
the fittest invariably survive. But Cuffee is
still there making desolating puns that
are as dreary as a Ly-ee-Moon sermon
or a Methodist prayer-meeting, and dragging
about the tourist’s clean shirts packed in two
portmanteaus as of old. The scenery, too,
displays the same irritating activity which
characterised it in its younger days, and it skips
faster even than the Rotorua landscape when the
earthquake was touching it up behind and making
it gee, while the ghost has assumed a clean night-
gown, which is seven s'zes too large for him, and
which was evidently designed by the spectral
tailor for a goblin son of Anak. A glance
at the state of the house leads us to
the conclusion that a large number of
people have succeeded in staying away, and
many of those present wear an expression that
implies the recent loss of a very dear friend.
There is no Indecorous crowding at the door, no
rude scuffling for seats, or elbowing of weaker
brethren by muscular selfishness in evening dress;
the struggling multitude come in by twos, or
swamp the ticket-taker one at a time, and in their
solemn deportment they set an example that
might well be followed in other places of amuse-
ment. But a gentleman who finds himself far
from home on a cold evening, when it is raining
alike on the just and the unjust, and who has lent
his umbrella to a Christian friend, might do worse
than spend an hour at the Princess’s, and to all such
we can heartily recommend the entertainment.
The roof of the building is watertight, and that,
after all, is the great thing in this life.
** * *
“ Mirth and Minstrelsy,” as per play-bill,
continues to magnetise good houses at the Sydney
Academy, for where their crowd Is, nothing but
the want of a matter of “ two bob ” can keep the
masses away.
»* « «
“Princess Toto,” at Melbourne Opera
House, is put on with the completeness which
made “ Falka ” a success. “ Toto ”is one of W.
S. Gilbert’s earlier efforts in opera libretto, and
the music is by Frederick Clay. It is impossible
to avoid comparing Clay and Sullivan, under the
circumstances. The peculiar sympathy between
words and music which distinguishes ail Gllbert-
Sullivan works is hardly so strongly marked in
•• Toto.” Nevertheless, the music is pretty, if not
soaring, and the main idea of the story essentially
Gilbertian and funny. King Portico has an only
daughter, Toto. She is fair, fascinating, frolic-
some, and phenomenally forgetful. Also she is
romantic to the last degree, and adores savages
and bandits. Bat Toto’s lack of memory is ac-
countable for all the trouble. After putting on a
beautiful bridal garment for the purpose of
marrying a Prince Caramel, who doesn’t turn up,
she marries a Prince Doro (who turns up unex-
pectedly), quite forgetful of her old engagement.
To Zapetar, King Portico’s Prime Minister, falls
the duty of breaking this misadventure to Prince
Caramel. Zapetar is wily. He persuades Caramel
to assume the garb of a bandit and work
on Toto’s romantic feelings. Toto quite for-
gets that she was married half-an-nour be-
fore, and elopes with the mock bandit to
his mountain home. Finally this Zapetar puts
matters right by getting King Portico and his
secretary to join him in a scheme for regaining
Toto. They get up as redskins. As a redskin is
more unconventional than a banoit, and wears
fewer clothes, the artless Toto flies with them to a
tropical island, where things are straightened out.
Prince Doro forgives his wife, and Caramel marries
somebody else. There are heaps of good things In
the opera, but they are spread out unduly. Three
acts should be condensed into two. The honours
are carried off by Mr. Robert Brough. His ren-
dering of a redskin who converses In Hiawathlan
metre, is only surpassed by his war dance. Mr.
Kelly is a capital Portico, Mr. Appleby is funny
as Caramel, the feeble bandit, and Mr. Armes
Beaumont sings as usual and acts with taste the
part of Prince Doro. The eccentricities of Toto
are very skilfully handled by Miss Ivanova, and
the only exception that can be taken to her sing-
ing is not on account of its quality—but quantity.
The opera is somewhat overburdened with ballads
of no particular merit, and duets of ditto. All the
minor characters are well played, and the chorus
is fully up to the newly-acquired reputation of
the house.
»m » »
Melbourne papers deal very roughly with
Messrs Dampier and Darrell, whom they aver to
be playing “ His Natural Life” without duly re-
warding the oleim of the widow and children of
the late Marcus Clarke, the author. As far as Mr.
Dampler is concerned, we are able to state that
the insinuation is exaggerated, if not entirely
false, for he pays Mrs. Clarke a royalty on each
performance, although not in any way bound by
law to do so. And his version of the story, pre-
pared for the stage by a well-known clerical lit-
terateur, is realistic to a degree. The rev. gentle-
men, whose Sunday night deliverances, fiy the
way, are always fetching and popular, has simply
materialised, and the Dampler Company have Im-
bued with life the ghosts of the creatures of
romance. Even to the scars and blood on the
ankles of the convicts the realism is sustained at
the Sydney Royal Standard. Yes.
*» * *
Messrs. Macmahon and Leitoh have been
doing a good business at Rockhampton (Q),
where they produced the “ Lights of London ” and
“ Led Astray,” The only other excitement there
at present is dodging the calls in the defunct mines
of the district, so this entertainment has added a
little variety to the scene.
« « tf «
Mr. W. T. Holloway, late of the Ly-ee-
Moon, is doing good business at Brisbane, where
he has produced a new play, entitled “A Ring of
Iron." The scene is laid in Australia, and, as
usual, wickedness is predominant in the early
ads, but at last grim retribution sets upon the
villain of the piece, and the bustle of the re-
vengeful god less smothers him in the midst of his
crimes.
&* & «
“ Dick ” Whittington, who is pretty well
known from Cape Otway to Cape Yorke, has had
very hard times of it lately. A neglected cold,
caught while travelling with South’s Opera Com-
pany, was the index of his trouble; he lost his
voice, and then, as if that misfortune were not
sufficient for one man, a paralytic stroke deprived
him ot the use of his right arm and leg. Now he
has found a temporary home with Mr. Joseph
Ryan, of the Eureka Hotel, Geelong, and some of
his friends are trying to gather something for his
relief. Any other subscriptions would be both
useful and welcome.
« * ft »
Minnie Palmer, upon the conclusion of the
1510th performance of “ My Sweetheart,” which
took place at the Strand Theatre, London, made a
gushing little speech, in the course of which she
said, “ I'he welcome which you have given me will
at least induce my big Australian brothers—l like
big brothers, because they are so nice—to hear me
when I reach their great home in Australia in
next September. I have yet to sea a kangaroo—l
do not even know if they grow on trees—so you
see, although I am going to marry Tony, I have
much to learn. But I have seen some Australians
—I have seen the Australian cricketers; and if I
had not a sweetheart already—well—l might have
chosen a new one.” Who would not be an Austra-
lian cricketer? If Minnie talks that way when she
comes out to Sydney the reflectors of the footlights
will be broken down beneath the reckless heels of
an estacised multitude.
•* » *
Mr, Walter Reynolds is now at Newcastle
(Eng ), where he seems to have made a great hit
with ‘'A Mother’s Sin.” Sandwiched in between
a wife murder and a mean swindle, the Chronicle
gives a glowing critique of this production, but
entirely omits to mention the nature of the sin in
question. As the drama is Mr. Reynolds’ own
production, however, it is probably written to
show the lady’s shortcomings in neglecting to fan
his pants in the happy days of childhood. The
author himself takes the part of Cyril Meredith, a
bank cashier, who from noble motives takes to
liquor, puts £3OOO on a horse, and yet does not
borrow any of the funds in his charge, but departs
from his situation, drunk, incapable, and beg-
gared, but virtuous to the last. When Mr.
Reynolds has finished picking the dry bones of
that cashier, w-; would suggest he should export
him to Australia, where there is a splendid opening
for his talents.
»• • •
Now w© can die in peace, utterly regard-
less asto whether we become a picnic for Kirby,
or a bonfire for Dr. Creed’s amusement. The
Federal Minstrels have hatched out a new conun-
drum, which must strike a sympathetic chord in
the back bosom of every young man throughout
the land. Here it is. Why does a young man em-
bracing his best girl at the garden gate just as the
old man,wearing his copper-toed boot, approaches,
remind you of the love geeno in Faust? Give it
up? Because he is hugging his girl before the foot
lights. See it now? Very well. You may one day
live to feel it.
« * *
We read that “ Mrs. Dion Boucicault has
purchased a new piece by Mr. Arthur Goodrich,
which she will produce at an early date, and will
play the lead. A prominent part will be taken by
her son, Aubrey R. Boucicault.” This, we pre-
sume, refers to Dion’s other Mrs. Boucicault, not
to the one he bought in Australia.
** « «
Fred. Millie, who is showing in ’Frisco,
gets nice fat notices from the local papers
Janausohek, at latest, had sailed from America for
England, to rest.
* * *
We are rejoiced to hear that Miss Emilie
Melville is not ill, as has been reported, but, on the
contrary, enjoys the very loveliest of health in the
little villa at Forest Hill, near Melbourne, where,
aided by Verdi, who drops in occasionally,
doncherknow, she is chiefly occupied in devising
some other plan of wresting more millions from
lb 3 multitude who adore her genius and yearn to
again behold her—The sisters Watson, who were
the mashers In “ Blue Beard,” at the London
Gaiety Theatre, last season, have both struck it
rich. One has made a brilliant marriage and re-
tired from the stage; the other has received a
legacy worth about £4OO a year. Needless to add
that both the fond husband and the testator were
baldheadg who sat in the front row of the stalls
The Dan Barry Dramatic Company have been
playing with great success at Tamworth, where
they produced “ Hunted Down,” and other blood-
curdlers. An entirely new version of “East
Lynne ” is part of their repertoire, and if Lady
Isabel and her senseless elopement nave been ex-
punged, it should be worth seeing, as should also
Mr. Parnell’s drama, “ The Irish Land Agent.”
Such good houses have rolled up for the Bell-
ringers at Newcastle that the Lynch family, on
some occasions, have had to shut the door against
their beat friends. Farewell performances are to
be given there on Friday and Saturday Grea-
fell-Laake Dramatic Company doing a struggle up
North after a disastrous season in Brisbane
Ssamlle and Harding Opera Company go right
through to Rockhampton (Q ), and do not play at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), as formerly Intended. Had
Lusoombe won his action against the doctor he’d
now have been quite a big capitalist... Warner
joins Dunbar’s Company, and will take “The
Fenian Cat” with him. Dieumerci!


to £C If/tp ttCupf J>ut \ ftH-
Mi rtRS-i C*
l\\t N nf/.
l l i~ K
dlf
Sir Patrick and Boss Protectionist Luscombe:
A FREETRADE ORATION ILLUSTRATED.
“ Vice is a mor ster of so frightful mien,
As to be hated needs but to be seen;
Yet seen too off, familiar with her face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace,”
—Pore, as quoted by G. H. Reid.


OPENING OF THE INDO-COLONIAL
EXHIBITION.
“[FROM THE BULLETIN'S AGENT-GENERAL IN
London.l
Everybody was there, of course, from Lord
Salisbury to Hennlker Heaton. That is tolerably
inclusive, is it not ? Henniker was in the proces-
sion as one of the Commissioners. He wore his
Court dress. Knowing your keen sense of humour.
I’m glad, for the sake of your sides, that you
didn’t see him. He was near the throne during the
ceremony, of course. The London correspondents
of colonial papers were scattered about the bal-
cony and gallery, just under the ceiling. We only
received our tickets for the ceremony at the last
moment. Why the London reporters of the dailies
were accommodated in the basement, and the
L.C.S of colonial papers in the attic, is a question
to which we have not yet been able to secure a
satisfactory answer from Sir P. C. Owen, or Mr.
Trendle. I was in the balcony, about 300 yards from
the throne, I should think; the B. News was a little
higher (notwithstanding “ friends at Court;” or
stay I Perhaps the hon. member for Canterbury does
not care to parade his intimates on such occasions),
and the Age, the largest daily circulation in the
colonies, was higher still. The balcony and gal-
lery seats (the cheapest) were 355. each, so that the
" odious masses ” were kept out. If Sir Philip
Owen persists in making such broad distinctions
between London and Antipodean scribblers—the
former in the best seats and the latter in the
worst—he will not only succeed in becoming
seriously disliked, but he will utterly burst-up the
already slim prospects of Imperial Federation.
w m *
Tbe London papers, and no doubt the
colonial dailies, will tell you that every word of
the address to her Majesty, read by the Prince of
Wales, was distinctly audible in every part of the
vast hall. A pleasant stretch of imagination, be-
lieve me. The Prince speaks as if he had some-
thing big in his mouth—say a boxing-glove or a
JLC.M.G. My hearing is above the average in
usefulness, and I only caught about one word in
pix of what he was delivering. Her Majesty’s re-
ply, on the contrary, was distinctly audible, even
in the balcony (it’s quite a pleasant change to have
something nice to say of Royalty!) and not a
syllable was lost. I don’t think there is another
little plump old lady of nearly 70 in the kingdom
who could have performed a like feat. There I I
shall be knighted if I am not careful!
* * *
With the aid of a powerful pair of field-
glasses I was able to study the distinguished
gathering in the basement. Right away at the
back, the centre of a group of ladies (Including
Lady Wilson), and, although so representative a
colonist, taking no part whatever in the proceed-
ings, calmly sat Sir Samuel Wilson with a white
flower in the buttonhole of his frock coat. Wise
man, in his way, Sir Samuel I Australia repudiates
him. Well: he accepts the situation. You may
be pleased to know, by the way, that Mr. Heaton.
M.P., was among the gentlemen (observe, among
not one of) who accompanied the Prince of Wales
in his last look-round the day before the opening
ceremony, upon which occasion Sir Alexander
Stuart, who looked haggard and unwell, was attired
in velvet, the N.SW. Agent-General, who is more
used to that sort of thing, carried himself well, mak-
ing the most of his limited store of inches, but he did
not seem particularly cheerful, the result, I cannot
help believing, of the slight paid him by an un-
grateful colony in not appointing him Executive
Commissioner. That piece of singularity on the
part of N.S.W. reminds me of the cablegram which
arrived from Sydney on the opening day:—“The
Government of New South Wales begs to express
its thanks and appreciation to the Prince of Wales
for the profound interest he has shown, as presi-
dent, in the success of the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition, and congratulates His Royal Highness
on the auspicious occasion of the opening.” What
a glorious grovel! It would have made all London
snigger if only all London could have taken in the
situation. Sir Patrick Jennings, I suppose, hopes
to be the first colonial peer. How large was the
deficit in the recent budget ?
■ e ■
It was rumoured about that luneh would
be provided for the Press representatives between
3 and 4 o’clock in the offices of Mr. Trendle, the
chief of the literary and Press department at the
Exhibition. Directly the ceremony was over, a
great number (hundreds I should say) of cadaver-
ous-looking men might have been seen lighting
their way through the fashionable orowd-to the
destruction of many an elaborate female’s toilet-
in the direction indicated. Journalistic ethics pre-
vent me naming those Anglo-Australians whose
eagerness was most marked. Champagne of the
, first brands (I should be accused of imitating Sala if
I particularised) was simply ad lib. Money, in these
great Exhibitions, appears to be no object at all.
Presumably, the dissipation is paid for out of the
profits. What becomes of the balance of the
proflts.no one appears to know. That the huge
speculations at South Kensington have, under Sir
P. >c. Owen’s management, paid, and paid well,
there is no doubt whatever. But who pockets (or
pocket) “the dibs?” That’s the question. The
profits begin to arise-it is calculated-a/ter every-
one has seen the Exhibition .for the sake of the
Exhibition, and when the place has become, day
and night, but a modern and enlarged edition of
Cremorne. Then no true respectable women
would visit it without an escort; and there are
plenty of women who would not go under any
circumstances whatever. It would be appropriate
enough for the Prince of Wales to open such a
concern with a flourish of trumpets, but that the
Queen (Defender of the Faith, by the way), who
is nothing if not prudish, should perform the
ceremony, is painfully incongruous. And what
do you think of the Archbishop of Canterbury
turning out in full canonicals to bless this mon-
strous Agapemone —I don’t like in this connection
to use the seven-lettered Saxon word.
• I *
In the Tiotorian court, in the afternoon,
I stumbled against G. A. Sala. (Don’t put in the
initials, or he may be annoyed. Plain Sala is
sufficient for such a mighty man. “ What address,
Doctor ? ” asked an inoffensive lady friend of mine
©nee to poor old long-since defunct Dr. Mailer-
"Doctor Muller, Sydney, madam!” he thundered.)
George Augustus is looking very seedy. We
sometimes speak as we pass by, but as I could see
by his eye that he was hunting for a polysyllabic
word with which to open his exnibitlon article for
tae London D.T., I refrained from molesting him
then. I afterwards again saw a certain hon. mem-
ber, one of the very few men in levee dress who
were visible about the Exhibition after the cere-
mony was over. Bmney, in yellow gloves, and a
new silk hat, was also flitting uneasily around.
“ Doesn’t look well?” remarked Handsome
Charley—who never forgets his duty—to a new
arrival from Australia. “Capital,” was the en-
thusiastic reply. “ What a footman he would
make to be surel’’ There was an explosion near.
Lett started as though it had been a dynamite
bomb; but it was only
Your humble servant,
A. B. ORIGINAL.
The Charch's Loaves and Fishes.
“A Curate’s Complaint,” published in a London
paper, is one of the saddest laments that we have
met for many years. The writer reports 17 years’
constant painstaking service in a densely-peopled
London parish, with a stipend of £l4oa year, out
of which he had to support a wife and family, and
keep up that appearance of shabby respectability
which is the ear-mark of the lower ranks among
the English clergy. Meanwhile, young men who
had seen only three or four years’ service were
promoted over his head, being backed by influence
in high quarters, and on the death of his own vicar
he found himself provided with a new superior in
the shape of an ecclesiastical youth 13 years his
junior in the church. This circumstance led him
Kevvapjp
Ton
Rabbits* Scalps .
ħ
“THE EVIL THAT RABBITS DO LIVES AFTER THEM.”
IT IS SAID THAT THE SCALP OF EVERY DEAD RABBIT IS PAID FOR BY THE N.S.W.
TREASURY SEVERAL TIMES OVER.
to appeal to the Bishop of London, and to that
reverend gentleman he stated his case, adding
that the parishioners were much annoyed at the
manner in which he had been treated. In reply,
the boss of the diocese observed with a smile,
That was nothing to him.” The clergyman then
asked what hope he could have for the future,
and received the answer, “None whatever.’’
An appeal to the Premier met with no
better fortune, and Mr. Isherwood thus finds
himself in the latter part of his middle age
stranded among the wrecks of time, with no
prospect whatever for his declining years. His
position, however, is better than that of many of
his brethren. There are curates in plenty in the
rotten hierarchy of England, who eke out a pit-
tance of £4O a year by keeping pigs, taking in
lodgers, or by the simpler and more gentlemanly
expedient of starvation, while the lathers of the
church appropriate the loaves and fishes, leaving
only the crusts and scales to their subordinates.
As a dividend-paying concern, the service of
God is nowhere in comparison with that of the
devil, and from a financial point of view, it is far
more promising to commence life as the croupier
of a gambling-hell than as a curate of the English
Church. No smoke-dried, moth-eaten, decayed
old Chinamen who spreads infection round him in
his fan-tan shop in one of our Australian cities,
has so dark a look-out as he, and the Joss to
whom the Mongol appeals to fill his cash-box and
send him dupes, appears to care more for his
own than do the lawn-sleeved Pharisees of Britain
for their flocks. The Asiatic carries his appeal to
his straw-stuffed deity, and for good or evil,
either by his own exertions or by the good-
will of his mangy god, he frequently gets
an answer; while the English curate makes
his complaint to a spiritual superior, whose
soul w«uldnot buy the straw required for stuff "
ing his pampered body, and receives no response.
Morever, the yellow man has another advantage
wnich is worth noting. If his Joss neglects his
request or lends a deaf ear to hi i prayer he can
wreak his vengeance by kicking the agricultural
intestines out of his divinity, but the parson has no
such satisfaction.. There may have been cases wh en
a curate has kicked the sacred person of an arch-
bishop, but if so we have never heard of them,
and had an authentic instance of the kind come
under our notice we would have spared no effort
to lift that curate to a high niche in the temple of
Fame. What the ultimate fate of the English
Church will be can admit of little doubt—utter
crushing destruction is the certain fate before it.
As a power to command the minds of the people
it is already dead. The Moslem who throws away
his life in defence of his creed proves by his very
act that his creed is to him a living thing; but
England might be searched in vain for a sane man
who would sacrifice himself in defence of the
episcopal structure which is tottering to its fall.
And after it has fallen and buried primates and
priests in its ruins the Moslem and the Buddhist
will go on their way for generations, not because
their religion is any more real than that of the
Bishop of London, but because they have not ac-
cumulated wealtn by grinding the poor insupport
of their own unholy luxury.
More Carvings!
Dear Bulletin,—l read in the faint Echo (Syd-
ney) that
“ The sculpture to he placed over the doorway of
the New South Wales General Post Office, repre-
senting the Queen, and a* her feet Britannia and
New South Wales, will be on view at the Indo-
Colonial-Exhibition.”
One statue of any individuil, no matter how
eminent, is generally considered enough for any
city of moderate size, but the reigning architec-
tural authorities of New South Wales, who, by in-
flicting upon the long-suffering city of Sydney
those hideous monstrosities, the Post Office carv-
ings, have already made the community sup with
expensive horrors, are seemingly possessed with
the idea that no public building is complete until
a dumpy statue of Queen Victoria is perched
upon it. And why? If ornamentation is the
object, surely some more graceful model might be
found than that Instigating the marble lie which
is usually foisted on a confiding public as the
counterfeit present of Victoria Regina. But
if this portly and respectable and affluent—
by the grace of God old German lady
must inevitably be hoisted on high, why, I ask,
should Britannia and New South Wales be repre-
sented as grovelling before her? What has her
race done for the British people, and what do the
British people, or the Australian people, owe to
the House of Brunswick? Queen Victoria is not
and never was a model of physical beauty any
more than she is an embodiment of anything but
negative virtue, and why should she a hundred
times be reproduced in stone by well-paid irre-
sponsible officials at the taxpayers’expense? If
we must have graven allegories upon the public
buildings of Australia, let us, anyhow, have
truthful ones. Pourtray for us (if you ’.like,
let it be in the aboriginal style of art
so wondrously exemplified by the Barnetian
savageries) Victoria by the grace of God
and Wales by the grace of God, and Battenbbr o
by the grace of God, with all their hands in Joh n
Bull’s pockets by the grace of God, while Justice
drags to prison the starving Englishwoman who
only nine weeks ago was sent to gaol for
a month by the grace of God for steal-
| iag from a field some mouthfuls of raw
turnips; or represent our German royal family as
parasitic creepers or crawlers sucking the life-sap
from the British oak. Britannia and New South
Wales at the fee t of Victoria I Bosh I Fifty
years hence the commonplace Queen Vic-
toria will be dead, buried, and practically
forgotten by all but thp class who have a
pecuniary interest in keeping hfer memory
alive, and by the people whose “loyalty” has
been stimulated in infancy by means of brazen
historical lies. What significance will the Sydney
Post Office group have for the people of that day ?
When the initials of that infamous ruffian
Georgius Rex were placed by his creatures on
the forefront of the old public buildings in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, a meretricious magic en-
vironed the name of the reigning king, who from
this short distance of time seems to have sat upon
the throne, not by the grace of Gon, but actuall y
in spite of Heaven. What do we all now say when
we look up and see “ G. R.” emblazoned upon the
wall? Is it not—“ Yes, George the
‘First Gentleman in Europe’; lecher, liar, glut"
ton, adulterer, madman, brute?” His sacred
Majesty represented the positive vices of
the House of Hanover; Victoria represents
the negative common to the law-
abiding bourgeoisie, who are her chief prop.
Victoria Is fleshly and mortal, but Liberty is of
the spirit and immortal —the purest flame that
ever fired the blood of man. Place, then, a statue
of Liberty over the Sydney Post Office doorway
and it will stand as long as the building endures,
while the statue of a dead representative of a cor-
rupt and effete institution will be thrown down
and its place filled with the counterfeit present-
ment of something or somebody representing a
never-dying principle. And if a sight of the statue
of Liberty should be too much for the nerves of
the ruling authorities of a colony which, com-
menced in chains but a century ago as a huge
penitentiary, is only now emerging from the
shadow of the gaol wall, let there be set up a re-
cord of our military glories—let there be raised u p
a representation in marble of New South Wales
strangling the brave Arab, who, in the words of
Gladstone, "rightly struggled to be free.”—
Yours, F.
The recent coming: of age of the Duke of New-
castle, with its Inevitable “rejoicings,” might pro -
vide a text for a Tory sermon on the blessings o ;
the law of entail, and the convenience of a long
minority. The sins of the father are net visitei
upon the children in ducal families. Anyway, the
eldest son and heir seldom suffers much—thanks
to the providential clauses of that aristocrat! s
law of entail. It doesn’t seem so very long baos
that the late Duke of Newcastle died ah impecuni-
ous and miserable exile from the land of his credi-
tors. His was a short life, and for a little while it
was a merry life. The noble name of Newcastle
was renowned In racing circles some 16 or 18 years
ago. The “Book” kept a big stud, he “ plunged” in
company with the last Marquis of Hastings and
the present Duke of Hamilton, ha backed bills
without any particular thought for the morrow ,
and he came to irremediable “ smash.” The family
was not rich—in the Westminster acceptation of
the term—but the Duke’s wife (daughter of Hops ,
the banker) had brought a lot of money into tie
concern. Every penny went. His effects were
sold at auction, even to the ducal library, which
consisted solely of elegantly bound volumes of
the “ Racing Calendar.” The neglected Duchess
took up with a professor of music, or singing, or
something, and disappeared from the world of
fashion. Her husband slunk abroad, and in due
course disappeared altogether from this greater
world of fashion and famine combined. Had he
been a Jones, a Brown, or a Robinson, with no
restricting “ entail,” he would have parted wich
every acre and stone of the ancestral possessions,
and left nothing to be “ nursed ” during his young
son’s minority. But now, Phce nix-like, from tae
ashes of papa and mamma’s ruined fortunes,
arises this new Duke of Newcastle to accept the
rejoicings of his tenantry. Thus is the glory of
our old nobility ranewed-aye, from generation to
generation. Thus is a brainless, dissolute family
prevented from sinking to 'its own proper level.
This Duke of Newcastle, who has just taken his
seat in the House of Peers, comes of a grand stock,
truly. One of his uncles was the Lord Arthur
Pelham Clinton, of “Boulton and Park’*
notoriety. Boulton and Park, two effeminate
young clerks in the London Q-.P.0., were what is
euphoniously termed “female-impersonators.”
They were prosecuted on a hideous charge of
felony, but, as is usual in these cases, the trial
came to nothing. The curtain was discreetly
lowered on the scandal. However, such dis-
closures were made that Lord Arthur Clinton,
the principal patron of these delectable creatures,
found it advisable to cut the country. Soon it
was given out that Lord Arthur was dead and
buried, and since then it has Ibeen mysteriously
rumoured, fr®m time to time, that the gentleman
is not dead and buried. There have been prece-
dents for these resurrections. But why stir up
any more of the family mud ? Let us merely re-
joice that this promisingly-bred Duke is now old
enough to vote on colonial questions.
Robinson, amateur champion of England,
undertakes to swim four milea in Ih. 15min.
It seemed probable when the mail left that
Hanlan and Teemer would arrange a three-mile
match at Rookaway for the first week in July tor
“£200 aside and the championship of the world,
Wh-a-a-tl
A section of the English press cavilled at
the ceremony of opening the Colonial Exhibition
with prayer. Someone said, “ The Aren bishop of
Canterbury, in full canonicals, will seek to add
Almighty God to the list of influential patrons.”
Well, that was a superfluous proceeding, all things
considered:—
Yes, very right and proper of the papers to object—
Uncalled-for was that patron’s presence quite;
With so strong a list already, it was simply dis-
respect
To the others—they would take it as a slight.
The good Sir Salmon Wilson was a-doing ail he
To make the show a popular success;
And Henniker, of all men, kept our interests m
view—
We didn’t want that other one, we guess.
Heaven’s aid is well enough no doubt when these
are not about, ,
But Heaton is, in most respects, divine;
His blessing was suifioient, there is very little
1 doubt —
Old Canterbury ought to draw the line.


'OUK\
i uo R o
\ '
IVaKR
||s
m
a - * C €
%
\
! I
W
Mwtsen sty
kc «f> Ct Ld;.
!'/IW[
IKI
7 f iy
Celebrating Her Centenary.
G. H. REID ( loq .): “WELL, GRANNY, OLD GIRL, NOW THAT YOU’RE NEARLY A HUNDRED, DON’T YOU THINK OF CELEBRATING YOUR BIRTHDAY?”
N.S.W.: SEE, GEORGE, I’VE GOT NO MONEY TO KEEP IT UP. I’VE BEEN ON THE SPREE, SELLING AND PAWNING EVERYTHING. AND PAYIN’ SOJERS THESE
SIX YEARS, SO, IF YOU WANT TO KEEP UP MY BIRTHDAY, YOU’D BETTER DO IT AMONG YOURSELVES—OR PERH'APS MY DAUGHTER, VICTORIA, WILL HELP YOU.”


h
. .;vf
“ Sneaking in ” Protection.
The Political Stratagem of the N.S.W. Treasurer, according to bis enemy the Sydney D.T.
VIDE YE LEGENDE OF YE MONKE WHO SNEAKED IN HIS LADYE FAYRE TO YE MONASTERY IN YE BUNDLE OP STRAWE.


Financial Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Mid rustle of the promissory-notes,
,’Mid never-ceasing rattle of the gold,
The banker o’er his little system gloats,
And chuckles at the public that he’s sold.
As sweet as honey, he’s as sticky, too;
Don’t marvel that a little money sticks
To’s fingers, that will always filch, till you,
By lucky chance, find out his little tricks.
He scorns the man who steals for starving wife,
The bigamist and other wicked ones;
So he’s wedded to a very Christian life,
But not unto the Tottie whom he “ runs.”
He always goes to church in pious state,
Of worldliness you never see a trace,
But he chuckles while he places in the plate
The widow’s mite, which isn’t his to place.
Oh, keep me from this pious black-clad fraud,
Who seems all virtue, but is never so;
Who always bids us “ lend unto the Lord,”
And acts as agent for Him here below.
And let us shun the holy godly crew.
But trust the “ sinners,” whom we higher rate,
Who, nothing shamming, honest are, and who,
Instead of prison, find the Golden Gate.
Hope on!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Hope onl” an inward monitor
Still whispers in my mind;
“ Regret not what Is done and past,
But, better, hope to find;
Sink not into inertia—
Look forward—not behind I
“ Regret may sink thee in the toils
Of sullen, deep despair;
But Hope will send a sunny ray
Shall clarify the air—
Trust on! ’tis aye the better plan
To grin awhile—and bear I
• Curs’d, wretched, he who hope hath lost
(Despair soon claims her own I),
Whose hope on earth for ever hath—
Whoso hope in Heaven—flown;
Know I life is built of hope on hope,
Till Heav’n at last is won I”
M.E.
Bundaberv, Queensland.
George Augustus Sala and Australian
Back Yards.
The sisters and cousins and aunts of that pillar of
salt, yclept George Augustus Sala, will be glad to
learn that he is turning his attention from studies
of human character—which certainly are not his
forte— to questions of hotels, drainage, pigsties,
and back-yards, in which he is eminently fitted to
shine. But let us not be misunderstood. We do
not for a moment propose to assert that G. A,S. is
qualified to shine in a pigsty, to illuminate a back-
yard, or to dispel the gloom of a drain. Such an
assertion would be as rash as that of the gentle-
man who declared that a literary antagonist was
built by Nature for the express end that he might
carry offal to a bear, whereas it was afterwards
proven that the iidividual in question not only
could not carry offal, but did not know a bear when
he saw one; we simply assert that in lecturing on
Australian back-yards Sala is at last showing some
signs of having discovered his true mission in life,
and may ultimately qualify himself for some re-
spectable employment. With this preamble we
will stand aside while the great litterateur props
himself against a dustbin and unfolds his tale;—
“Lest anyone should think that I am, in this
matter, exaggerating or distorting facts, let him
ask some friend who has visited the colonies, and
who is gifted, even to the slightest degree, with
the descriptive faculty, to tell him, in plain, un-
varnished language, what the backyard of an
Australian inn is like. The horrible Aceldama I
The cocks and hens roosting on mounds of dirt;
the brickbats and mortar scattered about—the
structure of an Australian hotel is for ever being
patched up; the mud puddles; the dustheaps; the
rotten planks and rails; the scraps of galvanised
iron; the outworn boots and shoes, and frying-
pans past service; the empty kerosene cans, bis-
cuit cans, sardine boxes, and bottomless ‘ billies,’
the broken-down, wheelless, shaftless buggies;
the gaping doors of the reeking kitchen, and the
Chinaman cook; the slatternly girls trapesing
about; the domestic conveniencies which could
only be fully described in a letter to the Lancet. A
fig, Australians, for your telephones and your
electric telegraphs I A fig—the fig of Spain—for
your Liedertafels and your Young Men’s Christian
Associations. Build hotels fit for Christians to live
in, not human hogsties.”
After reading this, it will occur to the classic
Student that there are only two ways in which
Augustus could have gathered this store of valu-
able insanity. One is by habitually interviewing
the housemaid over the back-fence when the
Chinese cook was absent—had the Ce lestial been
present he might have classed G.A.S. as an
ordinary " follower,” and knocked his intelligent
head against a post; and tbe other by a pro-
longed residence in the second-storey back-bed-
room—the one with the leaky roof and the lath-
and-plaster saint on the mantel-piece—either of
which places are admirably suited for a man who
wishes to gather facts to crowd into the bung-hole
of his intellect. Does George’s own palatial man-
sion, in Mecklenburgh-square, London, present
the same style of architecture at both sides, we
would like to know, or is the front freestone,
and the back mainly slop-pail and ash-barrel?
And, as for the cocks and hens, we would
point out that the mildness of our climate enables
them to roost on mounds of dirt in the open air
with perfect Impunity, and it is quite unnecessary
for them to be housed in the front parlour or the
dining-room, so that Mr. Sala need not worry him-
self on this point. With regard to the worn-out boots
and shoes, too, it may be George’s custom to wear
his until they vanish from sheer attrition, but we
don’t practise such mean economy in Australia,
and the dilapidated hobnail wings its way accord-
ingly into the yard. As for the wheelless, shaft-
less buggy, it is a decided advance on the good
old English custom of having no buggy at all;
and, in short, taking the colonial backyard in all
its bald deformity, we are inclined to think G. A.
Sala would not object to possessing it in fee-
simple, for we learn, on good authority, that h e
never possessed a backyard of any kind that he
could call his own.
When Bishop Moorhottse takes up the parable
and speaks it is time for smaller men to shave
their heads and take a back seat. The rev. gentle-
man now informs us that—
“At any time if England were engaged in main-
taining her communications through Egypt with
the Indian Empire, Australia would gladly throw
a contingent upon the flank of any enemy with
which England may be contending. There is no
need to keep a garrison in Australia in order to
maintain English ascendancy. On the
Instead of having to keep a garrison as in Egypt,
England can reckon upon Australia to furnish her
with a powerful contingent.”
As far as most people are aware, Australia his no
burning desire at present to throw a contingent
upon anybody’s flank. One experiment of the kind
is enough. The colonies, it seems, are expected to
go on throwing contingents loose about the world
for the gratification of Britain, at least so this
man of peace and representative of Heaven
asserts; but when we sent the last one the Bishoo’s
new apron was not very conspicuous in the van.
If he had gone to the Soudan himself he might
have had some right to talk in this fashion, but,
instead of drawing the sword, he stayed at home
and drew nothing but his salary. Still, he believes
in himself, and a man who does that is likely to
become a power in the land. There is no What’s-
his-name but Thingamy, and Moorhoxjse is his
prophet.
+
The earthquake and volcanic eruption in New
Zealand, and the eonsquent fall in real estate, will
furnish parsons and politicians with a text for a
good many weeks to come. The former, no doubt,
will know all about God’s reasons for giving up
sitting on the safety valve, and they will stand up
in their pulpits and unfold a tale, just as the'ghost
of Hamlet’s father would have done if circum-
stances had been favourable. They will explain
fullyland clearly why tbe wicked man’s horse was
SHE: “HOW GLORIOUSLY THE FRESH BREEZE PILLS THE SAIL, MR. DE SALT?”
HE: “YA-AS-THE SAILS ARE FULL.”
SHE: “AND HOW RESPLENDANT THE MOON IS, MR. DE SALT I”
HE: “YA-AS, THE MOON’S FULL.”
SHE (getting a little tired): “AH, DO YOU KNOW WHERE THE CAPTAIN IS, MR. DE SALT ?”
HE: “ER-YA-AS, BELOW. HE’S FULL, TOO.”
killed while the righteous man’s mule passed
through the fearful visitation uninjured; why the
publican was taken and the Blble-canvasser was
left. And they will draw the usual moral from
the fate of Pompeii, where a fight was going on in
the arena between a tiger and a Christian, and just
as the Latin bookmakers were filling up at 10 to 1
on the former, the flames burst forth from Yesu-
vius and the first chunk o f lava struck the wild
beast between the eyes and knocked him out in a
single round. Then they will point out that
such events are bound to happen in a country
which is run by a Freethinker and a 60 per
cent, ex-journalist who does not believe in
everlasting perdition, and the performance will
close with the customary collection. As for the
politicians, it will be no fault of theirs if the
Rotorua earthquake does not break the Stout-
Vogel Government at last. It will be pointed
out on all sides that the Ministry knew the
country to be unsafe for 40 miles round that lake
of fire and brimstone known as the hot springs,
and yet they neglected to fasten down the strata
with iron clamps or take any other precaution,
however simple, against disaster. It never even
occurred to them that water should be pumped
down the volcano at regular intervals, or that,
on dropping a bundle of tracts and missionary-
reports into the crater, that volume of holy calm
and solemn inspiration might do something to
soothe the raging tumult within. It is little more
than a century since the English Tories cursed
their opponents of that day over troubles of a
somewhat similar character, and sang—
“ What makes the quartern loaf and'rebels rise ?
What fills the grocers’ shops with large blue
flies?
The Whigs.”
And the Stout-Voobi, Government, which
neglected to cork up the orifice of Tara we ra, are
likely also to hear of something to their advan-
tage, both from a religious and a political point of
view.
So the case of Suttor v. Moore has been
concluded, and Moore pays Suttor £1350 damages.
That’s a worse “fall” for Moore than “ the ser-
geant ” gave him at Cumberland’s.
General Boulanger’s last army reform in
Prance is to insist upon all soldiers growing
beards, and, adds the writer, “ this has the effect
of making the French army look dirty.” Well,
the N.S.W. army does not wear beards, and yet—
but perhaps you don’t think they do.
A charming little book is “ Garriston’s
Gift,” published by Arrowsmith’s Bristol Library.
It contains three short stories by the late Hugh
Conway. With onej exception, the tales deal in
mysticism and strange gifts of touch, &c. So you
see Stuart Cumberland is leaving his mark on con-
temporary literature.
Australian racing reporters, happily, run
fewer risks of battle, murder, and sudden death
than their English confreres. John Giliett, of the
London Sportsman, went to Pontefract to report
a meeting*. Hotel accommodation was scarce, and
a couple of noble sportsmen laid siege to Giliett s
room, reserved for him by the landlord. Finally,
they burst the door open and stabbed poor Giliett
to the heart. Hitherto an English racing scribe
has felt pretty secure in his bedroom, even if he
had to carry a life-preserver on the course. Tblg
adds a new terror to the sport of kings,
Why, enquires a Tasmanian lady eorrespon
dent, cannot Victorians take a “licking” grace
fully? The Essendoa footballers went to Tasma
nia, intending to show the natives how the game
should be played, and were beaten in every match
—North and South. They could not accept defeat
like men, but made paltry excuses. One man was
incapacitated from the effects of sea-sickness, one
injured his little flnver, and another his nose—
finally “the Tasmanians were too hospitable,”
which, being interpreted, means that they pre-
ferred ascribing their defeat to an undue partiality
for Cascade beer, rather than acknowledge that
they were fairly conquered.
By far the handsomest dress at the Queen’s
last drawing-room was that worn by Mrs. J. W.
Mackay, wife of the “ Bonanza King.” The jupon,
of old-ivory satin, was embroidered in a design of
wheat sheaves carried out in seed pearls and silver.
This skirt was veiled with the famous dress of
point d’Alen?on lace formerly belonging to the
ex-Empress Eugenie. The train was most original
in design, being double. The first was of the
ivory satin covered with this wonderful lace;
the second en manteau de cour, was also of satin,
being embroidered like the petticoat. From the
right side came a trimming formed by three rows
of the most superb ostrich plumes, whose velvety
billows were carried round this regal manteau to
the left side; here a flounce of point d’Alen?on
half hid a garniture of snowballs and white lilac
that varied the trimming on the left side. The
pointed bodice was brode, like the skirt, and a
simple band of ostrich feathers was carried round
the bust. Mrs. Mackay wore her famed parure of
enormous sapphires and diamonds—tiara, neck-
lace, bracelet, ear-rings—long tulle veil in the hair,
with panache of ostrich tips. Bouquet of snow-
balls and white lilac. This all reads very
gorgeously; the other side of the picture is sug-
gested by the fact that just now Mrs. Mackay’s
husband is engaged in a war with Atlantic cable-
companies, who have reduced their rates to zero,
with the idea of “ knocking-out ” his cable. The
struggle, however it ends, will make a heavy call
on all his millions
The English Jockey Club has awakened
to the necessity of adopting a limited policy of
“ protection ” against the Frenchmen. A resolu-
tion has been passed that “no horse shall be eligi-
ble to be handicapped for any public race unless
he shall have been habitually trained in Great
Britain, or have twice run there during the pre-
sent six months of racing.” This new rule is the
upshot of Plaisanterie’s dual victory for Caeswe-
witch and Cambridgeshire last October. But pre-
vious to that the good things brought off by other
French horses—notably P<sut Etre—had excited a
lot of dissatisfaction. It was argued that the Eng-
lish handicapoer was working in the dark in at-
tempting to judge form on tbe other side of the
Channel. Unless he had some means of knowing
whether a horse was fit—or judiciously eased—in
its French races, he was compelled to accept
“ book ” form as a handicap line. Experience
proved that the book was a very unreliable guide.
One stable in particular habitually nursed horses
for a few months with a few to getting them in
light for the Cambridgeshire. Pent Etre was
weighted on his French form at 6st. 71b. yet, after
he had won, the stable proved what they thought
of the colt by matching him against Prince Charlie
at weight for age. Charlie -the fastest miler that
ever galloped—was a little too good for the
Frenchmen. Under the present altered conditions
it will be next to an impossibility for a foreign
dark ’un to be sprung oi the unsuspecting
Britishers in that style, and French stables will no
longer be the bugbears of the books.
Dr. William Ogle’s long paper on “Suicides
in England and Wales in relation to age, sex,
reason, and occupation,” is an interesting docu-
ment. From 1858 to 1883, the number of suicides
in Great Britain amounted to 13,830—an annual
average of 73 suicides to each million of persons.
This shows an increase over older lists. In a cata-
logue of suicides in London from 1770 to 1830, the
total amounted to only 7190 cases, and this at a
time when gambling and lotteries had made self-
destruction unusually common. But it is hardly
possible to form a correct estimate of the annual
suicide rates by numbering the cases between
given dates. The fluctuation in the stock market
are not more marked than the fluctuations in these
rates. Suicides, like fevers, are sometimes epi-
demic. Gallius tells us of a mania which took
possession of the maidens of Milesium to throw
themselves down wells. The town would have
been depopulated and all the wells choked up had
not the law interfered and frightened the surviv-
ing maidens into their senses by threatening to
throw their bodies into the streets. Years later a
similar epidemic seized the women of Lyons, who
threw themselves into wells by dozens. When the
British took possession of Malta, the aborigines,
either from patriotic grief or terror, killed them-
selves in every possible way. The authorities
were almost distracted, and could only put a stop
to the horrors by threatening not to bury the
bodies. The worship of the Goddess of Reason
was not conducive to reason in her devotees,
as at Versailles alone, during the Reign of Terror
1300 suicides took place in one year. The people
were utterly reckless, and practised the “happy
dispatch” with the ease of Japanese. They
thought no more of ending their life than did the
man who shot himself because he was tired of
buttoning and unbuttoning his clothes. The sui-
cide rate, rapidly increasing with age. culminates
between 55 and 65, whence It decreases. During
those 10 years it reaches its apex, the number of
deaths to a million being 351. After 65 it gradually
diminishes; old people rarely do away with them-
selves. The ancients, who thought little of
shuffling off this mortal coil, found the persistent
longevity of their progenitors so nrovoking that
they instituted a sort of suicidal club. In the Isle
of Zia, one of the Cyclades, this became a custom.
All the “unprofitable old men” were crowned
with flowers and haled forth to the sacrifice amid
rejoicings, It was a gala day for everybody but
the old men, who, in the presence of their friends,
took poison and died. Strabo says that in the case
of wonmnit was lawful to dispatch them at the
age of 60. It must have been from this that Mr.
Trollope took the idea of his “ Fixed Period.” With
regard to sex, male suicides oftei predominate.
The male to the female is as 367 to 100. In the
catalogue above cited, of the 7190 cases in London,
4337 were males and 3853 females. A list made at
the same time showed that in Berlin there were
five males to one female; in Paris, two to one; in
Geneva, four to one. This would demonstrate a
much greater amount of moral and a lesser amount
of courage as possessed by woman over
mjan. Between 15 and 30 the female rate is slightly
in excess of the male, which is mainly due to the
fact that between those ages women constantly
kill themselves from blighted affections. After 30
a woman is either not as well worth blighting or
her susceptibilities toughen. This female weak-
ness is not to be wondered at when one remem-
bers that Homer hanged himself because he could
D °t solve the “ fisherman’s riddle,” and Terence
drowned himself because he lost bis comedies,
while Plato considered suicide justifiable in the
case of a headache or a pain in the stomach. With
reference to the season for suicide, Dr. Ogle
agrees with the old authorities that June and July
are the favourite months, whi'e the death-rate
dwindles to its lowest in Novemberand December
Drowning is almost invariably practised in sum-
mer. It is a curious fact that people bent on self-
destruction shrink from such extraneous influ-
ences as the sudden shook of a cold plunge.
The occupations in which the percentage of
suicides is largest are those of the more culti-
vated classes—men whose business renders their
habits sedentary, and whose brains are constantly
at work. In the labouring classes, among men
who are actively employed in the open air, the
death rate is lowest. This is forcibly shown in the
difference between the rates of country and town.
Cities are more prolido of suicides than the
country by fourteen to one. Favourite methods
of self-destruction vary with the seasons and
the sexes. Hanging is now perhaps the
most universally popular. Drowning ranks next,
then cutting and stabbing, poisoning and shooting •
Many years ago Prosessor Caspar gave a list of 50 0
suicides in Berlin; of these 334 sought death by
hanging, 163 by shooting, 60 by drowning, 17 hy
cutting their throats, 30 by stabbing, 10 by poison-
ing, and 3 by opening arteries. Among the
ancients, the Romans especially, the most horrible
methods were resorted to to hasten death. Star-
vation was the favourite, and showed the iron re-
solution of the ancient Roman spirit. Opening
veins was also popular. Portia, Cato’s daughter,
swallowed live coals; Damocles scalded himself to
death; Hereunius, the Sicilian, hammered his
head against a post till his brains flew far and
wide. To them the end was everything, the
means nothing. The means at the present day are
quite as varied and as horrible. Women in this
again are singularly different from men. They
rarely kill themselves in such a way as to disflgure
their bodies, and they avoid sudden, sharp pangs.
They like to gratify a post-mortem vanity, and
they prefer the lingering tortures of strychnine
and arsenic to the instantaneous thrill of a bullet.
With them drowning ranks first, they prefer it to
hanging; and they will poison themselves with
anything they can get, such as chloride of lime, or
Rough on Rats, rather than use a knife or a re-
volver. When a man takes his life by drugs he
chooses what is painless but potent—chloroform,
or, if not that, prussic acid; whereas a woman will
take the first poison she finds, without thought of
the frightful pains that will ensue—witness the
woman in France who ate broken glass. The
French are justly famous for tbe unique horror
of their suicides, though it is difficult to beat the
Englishman who rolled from the too to the bottom
of the great Pyramid, or the old Greenwich pen-
sioner who stabbed himself with his spectacles
because his grog was stopped. That portion of
the inhabitants of Paris at present suicidatly in-
clined is divided between jumoing off bridges and
monuments and suffocating themselves with
charcoal fumes. The latter is popular principally
among unhappy lovers, as it produces little suffer-
ing and admits of conversation before the final
stupor. Sucking the sulphur off matches is some
times resorted to by women. The beautiful
model of the famous “ Chloe ” killed herself In
this manner-


Some women, ve read, now fasten their
hands to the headboard of the bed when retiring
at night to reduce the supply of blood In them
and produce a delicate colour. This is the sort of
girl a poor but deserving young man ought to
merry. She would endure almost any amount of
pain and hardship without flinching.
We hear that “ Mrs. Augustus Loftus will
shortly (for the second time) be presented to
Queen Victoria, by Lady Augustus Loftus, who
has given her daughter-in-law ber presentation
rohe of ivory satin and brocade, and a quantity of
beautiful old lace. Mrs. Loitus has also been the
recipient of a set of diamonds for that occasion.
PEPPER AND SALT.
No telegram from New Zealand affected
us more deeply than this—” A native chief and 40
men were hurled in the mud and ashes from
Tarawera, together with an Englishman named
Brown, a baker.” Poetry is indeed banished from
the world.
Mrs. Dugdale, of Melbourne, the apostle
of woman suffrage, social purity and the divided
skirt, has tackled the all-enthralling question of
kissing. She says that lip contacts must be per-
manently discontinued. Brow, cheek-bone, or
chin should be the ardent Strephon’s hunting-
grounds, but “ muzzle-tasting ” is downright dan-
gerous. Diseases are communicated thereby.
Algernon Swinburne—naughty manl—has sung of
“ lips intertwisted and bitten,” but then he never
studied the medical aspect of the case. Mrs.
Dugdale says that a kiss on the snowy temple of
his fair one should satisfy the newest of bride-
grooms. Yet how about the bridea-eleot and en-
throned ? Will they follow their strong-minded
leader in this Instance ? We trow not. Lovely
woman, in the mass, will continue to regard the
old-fashioned embrace as one of her noblest
“ rights,” and will stand up for it—or more often
sit down for It—at every convenient opportunity
On behalf of a little, rosy, dimpled fairy of our
acquaintance, aiid on behalf of ourselves, we
must protest:—
The gentlemen of Oxford, we read, are*
getting wideawake. They have presented their
Blsho ;> with a petition, praying “that in the in-
terests of the sanctity of marriage, Church and
{State will co-operate to expedite a system whereby
women may be enabled to call in duly qualified
female doctors." Egad I and if they could call (in
female curates, also in the same sanctified in-
terests, it would be as well. But, seriously, we
congratulate the men of Oxford on being the first
to petition against a scandal of many centuries’
standing. No one who has put a bottle of good
whisky inside a good-looking doctor, and then
listened aghast to his drunken disclosurer, can
doubt that the healing art has created myriads of
demure feminine sinners. Success to the new
crusade, and prosperity attend Mrs. Anna Potts,
if she isn’t a Mr. in disguise. Like should cure
like. The stethoscope of the male should sound
the system of the masculines, and the fingers of
the fair feel the pulses of the feminines. But,
alas! we are forgetting the parties chiefly in.
terested—the women themselves. They will fight
for the old faith, the doctoring of their ancestors,
till the last:—
The lock-up fit SilVerton is one of the
biggest jokes of its kind ever known. When a
man is “run in*’ there fob being dtunkj he
generally blows one side of it down half-
a-dozen times during the night with his
hiccups. Then the unhappy constable in charge
MAYOR YOUNG’S JUBILEE INVITATION CARD.
POLTCEMAN-JANITOU (to invited guest): “YOU MUST PRODUCE YOUR CARD, SIR.”
INVITED GUEST: “PRODUCE ITI WHY, IT'S TEN YARDS LONG, AND WEIGHS NINE
HUNDRED WEIGHT. IT’S COMING ALONG IN THE VAN.”
has to rise and set the wall up on its end
again. Frequently it is butted down by goats, and
a horse has been known to kick it half-a-paddook
away. The poor lock-up keeper in Silvtrton is
not in a very rosy position. He is accountable for
the safe keeping of every man he arrests, and it is
a common joke with the exuberant spirits up
there to get arrested and walk away with the gaol
when the constable goes down the street to look
up some more prisoners. To do them justice, how-
ever, they always bring back the gaol and set it up
for him after they have had their fun. Then they
carry in some liquor, make the string of the door
fast, put a batten up against it so that nobody
shall disturb them, and sit down to make a night
of it. In the morning they pay their fines and go
home filled with Christian content. But all are
not so conscientious. The other day a hawker
was arrested for trying to clear over the bor-
der, leaving his debts behind. He simply kicked
the door open and walked out. The constable
happened to see him, and gave chase. They
dodged each other round the gaol for a long time
and at last the prisoner disappeared. A black
tracker was sent for, but just as he was about to
start on the trail of the runaway, the latter saun-
tered up with a smile on his face and gave himself in
charge again. When asked where he had been, he
replied, cheerfully, that he had been “to stretch
his legs and get a drink.” This explanation was
deemed quite satisfactory, and the constable
asked him as a favour to go inside and rest him-
self till the magistrate came, which he did without
demur. Yes, there is lots of fun at the Silverton
lock-up—for all, but the look-up-keeper.
• • •
The boy stood on the banker’s floor, and,
as he twiddled his peewee hat, he stammered out:
“ I have come, sir, as a humble, but, I hope, de-
serving suitor for your daughter’s hand,” “ In-
deed,” replied the banker, as he poked a ballet
girl’s photo, under his blotting pad, and wheeled
his chair round, “ And may I ask if you have an
income sufficient to support a wife and family in
comfort?” “Not just at present, sir,” said the
blushing boy; “ I am only a poor post-office clerk
just now; but my father did some good elec-
tioneering work for the Hon. Mr. Voyceless Voat
last year, and my chances of promotion are, of
course,now very great indeed.” “Hal huml’>
exclaimed the banker. “ Well, I rather like
your looks, young man, and if the matter
is agreeable to my daughter you have my con-
sent. My daughter’s happiness is the sole object
of my life. If you should find that your prospects
turn out less flattering than you anticipate, I will
do something handsome for you myself. lam
even now arranging to start a little private busi-
ness of my own, and in all probability I will ar-
range for you to have an interest in it also.” “You
are very kind indeed, sir,” responded the young
man, gratefully; “ but may I ask what line of
business you intend to start in.” "A company
business, my son,” replied the father-in-law
of the future, in the most friendly manner pos-
sible; “lam about to float, on a capital of £500,000,
the Great Australasian Scientioo-Vegetation
Company, formed for the purpose of collecting
the caloric from cucumbers, and applying it
to all the purposes for which we now use
coal and gas. I’ll just read the prospectus
over for you now, because, having the
happiness of my daughtah—my own che-ild at
heart, I ” Just here the unfortunate young
man turned deadly pale, and starting for the door,
stammered out, “I —I hope you will excuse me, sir,
but I think—that is to say—l have suddenly
changed my mind about marrying your daughter.
It would be cruel to separate a father from his
only child, and besides I’ve saved up £l5O, and
that’s a good deal of money for a poor post-office
clerk to lose in one slap. I-I’m a very good day
to you, sir.” Then the boy went out into the
wide, wide world once more, while the banker
bowed his head, and signing a customer’s name he
filled himself up a cheque for £5O.
♦ * ♦
Roast us in sulphur! Hero’s another
gross miscarriage of justice which a hireling Press
seems inclined to let pass unnoticed. A few weeks
ago a woman was tried at Cowra, N.S.W., for
having wilfully and maliciously and of malice
aforethought slain and murdered and killed fatally
dead one nanny-goat, to the disturbance of the
peace of our Sovereign Lady the Queen, &o. From
the evidence it appears that the gentle goat was
nosing round this hard-hearted woman’s kitchen,
annexing a few unconsidered trifles lying about,
and the woman at once seized a shovel, and blew
out the intruder’s brains. Sbe was caught in
flagrante delicto (although the arresting constable
modestly denied this, and said he caught her
“ bechune th’ kitchen an’ th’ flnce ”) the goat’s
dying depositions, charging the prisoner with the
terrible crime, were taken on the spot, and yet, in
spite of all, the blood-thirsty miscreant got off
with the disgracefully lenient sentence of six
months in Bathurst Oaol. Could anything be more
monstrous than this ? Here was a poor young life
taken with flepdish malice and the business end of a
long-handled shovel. Here was a weak, erring be-
ing, by one fell stroke sent to its account with all its
imperfections on its head, and a paltry six moons’
stretch is all the punishment inflicted on the base
assassin. Alas, poor goat 1 Better for thee would
it have been had thou fallen with the rest of thy
kindred beneath the deadly vinous breath of Aus-
tralia's braves on the Soudan’s bloody field, or been
dragged through Sydney streets in captive chains
to grace the chariot-wheels of Plain Bill and his
Contingent. All this was had enough, hilt it
appears there was a still lower Avernus to which
our legal luminaries could drag the glorious god-
dess Justice. After putting in about six weeks
out of her six months’ sentence, the Cowra pri-
soner was liberated because she had given
birth to a child within the sacred walls of
the Bathurst institution. A banker slips off with
£4000, and is treated to four yeais; while a poor
woman about to become a mother receives the
eighth part of that sentence for mashing up a goat
valued at 4i. Thi3 is Ber-itish Justice as she’s
“ slung” to-day.
The possible visit of H.R.H. Albert Edward
is agitating all the Mayors and their corporations
from West Australia to North Queensland. The
Mayor of Adelaide, naturally enough, is the prime
mover in this delirium, but the minor municipal
magnates of Victoria are running him close.
Visions of the Adelaide Exhibition, chains of
office, " Bartie,” and knighthoods haunt them in
the perturbed slumbers which follow heavy
feeding. The Council of St. Kilda (Melb.) has de-
cided to impress upon Premier Gillies that the
appearance of their beloved Prince in cur midst
“would be a lasting boon to the whole of Australa-
sia.” Perhaps it would. A few dozen mayors
might die of apoplexy under the excitement of an
introduction,—
The scare which the Russian cruiser, Vestnik,
created in Australian waters is not yet forarotten,
but it now appears our friends in New Zealand
are having even a worse time than we had. When
tbe captain made his little incursion on Victorian
soil, he explained his conduct by stating that the
engines had broken down, that the whisky had
given out, that he wanted some oxtail for dinner,
and had just sighted a cow which seemed likely to
supply the article in question on one of the
ridges, and he liked his oxtail fresh, and therefore
preferred to have it cut off the animal, that he
wanted a crab for breakfast, that the men wanted
to hold a Sunday-school picnic on the beach, and
that the whole affair was a darned lie, for he was
nowhere within a dozen miles of the place. These
reasons were considered hardly satisfactory, and
when at last the wily Muscovite took his departure,
everyone began to breathe more freely. Next
this man of sin turned up at Hobart, presumably
with a view to kidnapping the new Agent-General,
but he was too late to carry out his nefarious
design, and left in disgust. Then, for a few days,
the wheels of the chariot of Time revolved as
“meothly as do the celestial spheres when R. A.
Proctor is keeping his eye on them, and bossing
the holy machine, till a sudden shock came,
which made sober men think an earthquake
had run against a Ministerial crisis and knocked
the stuffing out of It. The people of Wellington
arose from their peaceful blankets early one
morning and saw something which looked like an
omen of eternal smash floating at anchor in the
inner harbour. It was the Vestnik, which hid
come in during the night unobserved by the light-
house keepers, the signal men, and even the sen-
tries on duty at the various batteries, and her
captain was already hard at work examining as
1 closely as possible the decaying Illusions which the
New Zealanders, with a profound disregard for
veracity, describe as their fortiflcations. This
time also the marine barbarian had his explanation
ready, for a Russian captain, regarded as a regular
four-storey liar, with verandah and dust-bin com-
plete, can knock a Solomon Islander's wooden god
into sawdust. The anchor of the Vestnik nad
broken one of its back teeth, the bottom of the
vessel had unexpectedly dropped out, and the
third mate was dying suddenly of extreme Old
age, and these circumstances were quite sufficient,
( no doubt, to account for the stealthy arrival of
this nocturnal visitant. Still people were unable
to shake off tho idea that the Muscovite had tried
a mean experiment with a view to finding out
whether Wellington was capable of being sur-
prised, and even the Premier, who never
quailed at a teetotal meeting, or an atheist
gospel-scrimmage, looked rather blue when he
recollected that tbe strangers might, it they
chose, annex the deficiency of £150,000 which
tbe late Government had got together with such
care and pains, and which was now lying unpro-
tected in the Treasury. The fact that the danger-
ous visitor lelt the national shortage just where
he found it does not in any way diminish the
significance of the warning. Finally the Vestnik
cleared for Auckland-at least so said the naval
Ananias on tbe bridge—and yet next day an in-
coming steamer sighted a Russian Ironclad steam-
ing gaily towards tbe Australian cotst, Regarding
the identity of the vessel there could be no doubt,
for the crah-to procure which, at Melbourne, the
captain had run the risk of painting three
continents with gore—was plainly visible on
deck, and the anchor, with one broken-
back tooth, was banging at the hows. And,
to make the proof final and conclusive, a
picturesque Tartar liar in gold braid, and covered
with buttons until ho looked like Battenberg on
duty at a royal dinner party, was engaged knout-
ing somebody onthequaiter-deck, thus furnishing
evidence that even an Australian coroner would
regard as sufficient- We ask all patriotic colonists,
therefore, to consider carefully what these things
mean. If Russia intends to commit a criminal
assault on a British dependency it is time the par-
sons of Australia were praying for something
more substantial than rain; while, on the other
hand, if this Muscovite demon is only endeavour-
ing to take a rise out of us, it might be advisable
to call the attention of the boss Nihilist to his sin-
ful little games and arrange for his immediate
ass ssiaation. Colonists can endure a good deal
with exemplary patience, but to be made ridiculous
by a Russian is a thing which raises the fighting
blood of the cornstalk and the Maori.
THE CHIEFTAN'S GRAVE
Hard by the frowning mountain’s base
There dwelt a chieftain and
The remnant of his conquered race—
Once great In Maoriland;
At sunset they would sing and dance
In weird and warlike way,
And by a halo of romance.
All glorified were they.
In other days, with frenzied zeal,
They fit a famous fight—
The chieftain oft had made a meal
Off some misguided white;
And now that they were conquered by
The rum the Britons brought,
As Nature’s sons they hoped to die
As sons of Nature ought.
To sleep beside the trusty spears
That pierced the foeman’s breast,
Their graves bedewed by native tears—
’Twas thus they thought to rest;
Then, having bade the world “ good-Eight,”
They felt that they would be
From contact with the hateful white
At length for ever free.
We’ve read in Cooper’s books of old
Stern tales of savage pride—
Admired the words in which he told
How certain chieftains died;
And oh I we cannot help but weep,
That Maoris should come down
Like this—all buried in a heap
Along with baker Brown.
PLEASING POISON,
Oh, Mrs. D.l Oh, Mrs. D.I
How little do you guess
The secret of the ecstasy
We find in fond caress;
If Cupid takes a thirsty sip
Of nectar from his Psyche’s Jlp
’Tia better far to let ’em R.I.P.—
Ah yes, dear madam, yes.
Oh, Mrs. D, 1 would you deny
To bouncing, blushing mbs
That solace for which lovers sigh—
The ling’ring, luscious kiss?
A maiden, he she ne’er so meek,
Binds chaste salutes upon the cheek
Unsatisfying, so to speak,
(We’re positive of this).
Oh, Mrs. D. 1 in pity, please
Keep silence on this bead,
And never tell us that disease
By passion’s draughts is spread;
For if we may not bill and coo
As lovers aye were wont to woo,
What then, os earth, are we to do ?
’Twere better we were dead.
Oh, Mrs. D.I reflect awhile—
Withdraw your cold advice,
The farfoue, old familiar style
Is very sweet and nice;
When lips and lips in silence meet,
Each throbbing with a fevered beat.
It lifts a couple from their feet
Away to Paradise.
Dear Mrs. D., the poet’s lyre
Has often tuned a lay
In praise of what we all desire —
Deride us as you may;
The soul-pervading sense of touch
Is really, only known to such
As put their mouths together much.
In Love’s especial way.
And, Mrs. D„ though Pysche's breath
A fatal germ contains,
That man is not afraid of death,
Nor dreads It’s passing pains,
Who gazing into dreamy eyes,
With golden words of passion buys
Tae kiss he covets ere he dies,
And Heaven’s threshold gains.
THE DIFFICULTY.
Who la it says she couldn’t bear
To trust her i’ls to woman’s care?
It is, as we are well aware,
The lady.
Who is it likes a masher young
With airy grace to sound her lung,
And criticise her little tongue?
The lady I
Who is it fossicks out a pain,
So Dr. Pills can come again,
And with her i<He-a■ Utc remain?
The lady 1
Who is It has a pretty pout
If “ hubby ” makes remarks about
Long Interviews when lie Is out?
The lady I
Who IS it meets a doctor’s gaze
With sham confusion, -\ighba he says
Most giddy things in Wlnnitlg ways ?
The lady!
These ancient customs so accurst
(Of “social evils” (juite the worst)
One class has fostered from the first—
The lady.
-i. A
O, Royal Highness, hear our prayers I
Your portly presence
Would give to us (us means the mayors)
Joy's pure quintessence;
Your visit, we are all agreed,
A lasting boon would he indeed—
Oh I say you’ll come, we only need
Your acquiescence.
If but a month you merely stay,
That small concession
Would put the country in the way
Of sure progression;
Your smile would send abundant crops—
An increase in the yield of hops—
More business into all the shops
And each profession.
Then let us not prepare in vain
This small petition,
But let our budding hopes attain
To full fruition;
Permit us to embrace your toe;
We’d do without the other show—
Your royal self would be, you know,
Our Exhibition.


■“Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, the member for
<sa«Wbury,” we read in the E. News, ■“ wijl not
be opposed at the forthcoming election. Such
svas the .overwhelming majority at the last elec-
<tlon that the Liberals have not the courage to fao s
Another similar defeat.’’ Moreover, it takes a
hardy Liberal to stand a show against a political
&as company {unlimited) such as Henniker. The
constituency, however, la not a yary reputable
one to represent, being perhaps the most corrupt in
England, and for several years it was disfranchised
on account of the wholesale bribery which
characterised the Canterbury elections.
The compositors of the Oxaqo Daily
Tjmes, Dunedin, are out on strike, and at a large
public meeting it was proposed to boycott the
paper by refusing to deal with tradesmen who
Advertised in it.
M. de Freyjelnet has kindly informed the
Sritish Government that the commanders of the
men-of-war. Dives and Magellan, are “ not in-
structed to hoist the French flag upon the New
Hebrides.” He does not say they are instructc d
not to hoist the flag, nor docs he say what will
happen if they hoist the hag without
so the assurance does not amount to much.
Meanwhile, the Times is swinging the war-club
and the Standard Is waving the crimson shirt,
and both want to paint their scissors and gum-pot
jvlth gore if France takes possession of .the islands.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
That Wolfe's Schnapps is a medicine contain-
ing great virtues is undeniable.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Buy original un-
opened bottles of tbe only genuine Schnapps.]
BRIEF MENTION.
Mr. W. H. L. Bailey imputes fraud, in con-
nection with the carriage of his piano, by a certain
carrying firm. A press man witn a piano I
“If we escape hog-fever next season we
will hive a large surplus of bacon,” editorially
remarks a Bega editor. We sincerely hope he will
escape it. Now we know why Bega bacon is so
tough—they make it of local editors.
There is such a pressure of insolvency
work in South Australia that the Registrar and
clerks have to work on Sundays. It takes five
days out of the seven to polish off the unblemished
Christians who pay IMA in the pound.
“I fear me,” he said, “that my son will
grow up to be a member of Parliament.” “Im-
possible!” “He is only seven years of age.”
“How can you imagine such a thing ?” “By the
way he lapped up the champagne in the room up-
stairs.”
A Queensland olive story:—ln a small up-
country town, a cricketing banquet took place, a
local storekeeper providing the edibles, “ What
are these?” asked the landlord as he handed the
bottles to his Chinese cook, “ All li; me plenty
savee; gleenglage,” And he made a pie of them;
“When the pie, was opened,”—wall, the landlord
left in a hurry.
The difficulty experienced by the Minister
for Lands in substituting a more satisfactory
tribunal for the hearing of appeals from the Land
Boards in lieu of the present court, composed
solely of the Min'ster for the time being, has been
happily solved by a settler In the Grenfell district,
who threatens that unless justice is done to his
friend he will appeal to his Eminence Cardinal
Moran.
The Queensland police have found a set of
teeth and the charred fragments of a scalp, and on
this evidence they report that a stockman named
Bales has been murdered and eaten by the blacks.
This is a real case of inductive reasoning. If you
gave these gentlemen the torn fragment of a leaf
from the Douay Bible to serve as a clue they would
be able to find the original cross and the graves of
the 13 apostles.
The Moorehank estate, near Liverpool,
N.S.W., was given by Mr. Thomas Moore for the
benefit of the Anglican Church. One-third of it
contributes about £335 a year to the Bishop, the
other two-thirds consist “ chiefly of poor scrubby
land,” and yield only about £lO5 per annum to the
clergy generally. Thus, my orethren.is the Scrip-
ture f uifilled, for we read there that “ the meek
(bishops) shall Inherit the earth.”
A South Australian paper describes one of
the Commercial Bank swindlers as a “man whose
hypocritical knees were toughened by overmuch
prostration, and who would pray with hysterical
fervency on the slightest pretext.” The callosities
on his devotional joints should come in handy
when be kneels down in front of a pile of stones
at Dry Creek, or goes down on his marrowbones
upon the saxifrageous fl ior of his cell.
The volcanic eruptions in New Zealand
raise an interesting question. If a man’s little bit
of smiling pisture-Und is suddenly converted
Into & volcano, can he fence it round, and charge
eo much a head for the privilege of climbing to
the crater? Hitherto, we believe, emotions have
confined themselves to State lands, but the time
may come when it will he eustomary to speak of
fashionable volcanoes as having been in certain
families for generations.
A Melbourne sporting paper remarks
(apropos of Lord Carlngton’s blood stock): “ What
a pity it is that our Governor cannot be induced to
run race-horses I” In the interests of sport, it is
to be hoped lhat Loch will not be induced to do
anything of the kind. A gubernatorial victory in
the Melbourne Cup would be followed by such a
gorgeous scene of grovel as would probably make
all the horses sick. We are anticipating Caring-
ton’s first win with fear and trembling-
“ A touching incident in connection with
the burial of Archbisiop Qoold,” says the Mel-
bourne Herald, " was the enclos'ng ia the grave
Of a jar containing the names of several ladies
who had collected a certain sum towards the
Cathedral Building Fund.” Not counting the
occasions when we have barred the flight of a flat-
iron, this ia indeed the most touching thing that
has reached us up to date. The ladies touched the
people’s pockets and are rewarded by having their
pames passed down to posterity In a pickle-bottle
buried with an archbishop. Hallelujah!
Comjcillor Buchanan, of Colac, goes the
whole hog—and a very large one too—on the Re-
publican ticket. He objects to the council getting
up triumphal arches, and other vegetable decora-
tions, in anticipation of a visit from the Prince of
Wales, pointing out that some years ago an
address and a free lunch were prepared for the
Duke of Edinburgh, and that pensioned son of
iNeptune fled from the scene in horror without
hearing the one or devouring the other. It was
resolved, however, to give a loya' and enthusiastic
recjntion to the next Prince, in the hope that he
would show better manners, and the enthusiasm
J b now being got ready.
The Salvation Army of Hindmarsb, 8. A.,
organised a mock trial the other day. in which the
Devil figured as defendant. The charge against
his majesty was general cussedness. Defendant
did not. so far as could be seen, put in an appear-
ance, but the case proceeded without him. e
presume old Nick would give the same reason for
bis absence as did the station-hand down South, in
ibhe very early days, when every iquatter was a
J.P. This man was charged with some misdemea-
nour by his boss, and summoned to stand before a
neighbouring J P. of unsavory renute; instead of
showing up, however, he packed his swag and
tramped, leaving a note to say tdat as he had pro-
mised his dear mother to avoid all bad company,
he’d have to get them to excuse him.
According to the Rev. A. J. Webb, who last
wfiflk lectured in Sydney, “50 years ago the native
population of Fiji numbered about 200,000, all
of whom heathen. Now, the numbers were
about IMDjOOO, everyone o' them bring nominally
Christian, and many really such. Heathenism had
mow been stamped out. Out of the entire native
population over 100,000 were regular attendants at
public worship." We are amused. The nation
which, under the benign influence of Wesleyanism,
increases backwards from 300,000 to 110,000 in half a
ieenturv. and has now—we don't for an instant be-
lieve this yarn-100 000 riggers who go to chapel
regularly, is surely a spectacle to admire I Not
omy nave £Q,OOO darkles gone to heaven, but all
.the natural increase of population for the half-
/tantury have gone to heaven likewise. Halle-
lujah!
The Royal Jubilee.
The manner in which the Queen's Jubilee passed
off in Sydney will lead many to be thankful that
50 years must elapse before the ceremony will be
repeated. A few flags were d'splayed in the city,
a good number in the harbour, and a little powder
was burned by the various men-of-war; but there
w&s no exuberant or unseemly excitement of any
hind- An unexpected demand arose for oysters
and Jubilee beer, which is a way the colonists have
when they are steeped in holy and reverent joy;
but the brightest feature of the occasion was the
electric light in the Town Hall, in the evening,
which drew large crowds together. Inside the
building a grand bi-centennial feed aided to evoke
the loyalty of the elect. The Governor, of course,
occupied the place of honour, and following his
name came a long list, ending with the vice-consul
for Greenland, or some place equally remote. The
Assembly and the Council were present en masse,
and the alphabet was ransacked for initials to put
after the respective names. Lord Carinsrton, as
usual, was glib and fluent; so was his Worship,
but he used up all his ideas in proposing the health
of the Queen, and when replying to the toast of
* The Mayor.” he found himself reduced to dish-
ing up, not his own virtues, but those of her
Majesty and the Prince Consort over rgain. Mr.
John Davies rose to sudden prominence by drink-
ing ginger-beer out of a champagne-glass, and Mr.
Dailey by spouting oratorical ginger-beer out of a
mental receptacle which ought to have contained
champagne, but which, on this occasion, certainly
did not. He dragged his hearers away to Imperial
Rome, and then back cgaln to the municipal
grog and bi-centennial sherry with a rapidity
t iat took their breath away. Then Sir Patrick
Jennings tried to say something new about the
Prince of Wales, but his speech was feeble, for
John Davies’ uncouth assault on the ginger-beer
had overset him; and all were suffering from a
feeling that the Jubilee was only a sham after all.
It is a year too soon, according to all modern
ideas, but it was, perhaps, better to take Time by
the forelock instead of by the bustle, for no one
knows what a year may bring forth. Had the
colonists adhered to facts, and been trammelled
by dates, we might have had no Jubilee at all, and
1000 years would probab’y have passed before the
opportunity would again arise. However, Mayor
Young is to be congratulated. He gave a capital
spread, beginning with olives farcies, and buoyed
up by champagne ad lib. all along the road, and if
he couldn’t pleise a certain Consul, who wanted
rork and bean?, why that wasn’t his fault. Long
llveSlrJohnY oung!
Con. Dwyer has just bicycled a mile in
3min. 28%!e0. at Melbourne, beating all previous
records.
The backer of “Sammy” Jones against
the Australian Eleven skipper for best batting
average must, after the former’s flue perform-
ance in the match against the Gentlemen of Eng-
land, think he has a big mortgage on the wager.
The Yankee scribes will continue to speak
of Richard Matthews as the Australian champion.
As we have pointed out before, New Zealand was
the country which Matthews walked over rough-
shod. As a matter of fact, Peter Jackson had a
hundred to one the better show of a bout one
evening with Matthews at the Lighthouse Hotel.
Within the past year Jack Dempsey, of
Brooklyn, has netted 40,0001015. by pounding his
fellow-creatures, and has damaged the image of
the D rity very considerably for the money, Hii
income is now almost eoual to that of the Presi-
dent of the United States, and it would take a
country parson 66 years to make as much by rais-
ing up sinners as he does in 13 months by knock-
ing them down. His latest prize 1s the middle-
weight champion’s belt of silver, gold, and dia-
monds, and valued at over ICOOlols.
The scramble for intercolonial supremacy,
under the Australian rules, between the repr sen-
tatlves of N.S W. and Queensland, took place,
by the kind permission of King Pail, on the Asso-
ciation Ground on Saturday, and resulted in the
overthrow of the Banana-men by 4 goals to nil.
Those who went to see a rough and tumble
scramble of the sac'is-oc-the-mill description were
disappointed, as the game was a very open and
skilful display of the “robust pistime.” It ought
to draw a crowd on this Saturday, when the return
contest is played. The Northerners are a smart,
light, and active lot, as fast as a sit of dear, and if
they played in a big ground they might possibly
run rings round the N.S.W. champion?.
At Arrilalah (Q.) cricket appears to flourish
unler considerable di advantages, if it is fair to
judge by the record of a recent game. Play started
at 10; at II whisky was brought on the ground; at
13 the temperature of the atmosphere was HOieg.
Fahr., while that of the players’ language was
estimated by a local authority as 250 deg. Sheol In
the shade; about 1 o’clock the biggest men on each
side had a disagreement and fought 16 rounds; at
4an indignant player hired anew chum to knock
the claret out of the captain of the opposing team;
by 4.30 this little difficulty was settled, and the
new chum after 13 well-contested rounds was try-
ing to die behind a furze bush; and then,after five
more battles, the game was drawn. This is what
is called a friendly game of cricket up North.
This is the way a Belgian paper describes
football, now played in Brussels by resident
Englishmen:—“As soon as one of the players,
bruised and lacerated, seizes the ball, a mob pur-
sues him—throws him over-buries him beneath a
pile of arms and legs and seiz-s by force the pre-
cious prey which the brave fellow presses to his
heart. A curious effect is the grave silence during
the battle; these young gentlemen are careful not
to look as if they were therefor play. The frenzied
and brutal strife lasted for more than an hour.
Many passers-by, noticing the pitiable condition of
the players, inquired if there had been an accident.
‘No; it is only the English amusing themselves.’ ”
This is pretty correct except for the silence part
of the business. Go down to Moore Park any
Saturday afternoon and you wifi hear the three-
cornered cuss-words reverberating through the
lambent air and scattering the dark fig-leaves,
even as the circulation of a hat disperses a music-
loving crowd.
Lovers of the noble art were in clover at
Foley’s Athletic Hall on Saturday night, as a really
good evening’s amusement was gone through, the
performers ranging from scientific tappers to
gentlemen bent on knocking out. The best set-to
by far was the six-round bout between Jack Hall
and Pablo F ank. We never saw Hall to better
advantage than when giving the audience an ex-
hibition of science versus bull-dog strength. Hall
led with his left on to his massive opponent
when and where he liked, getting out of
danger ia his usual cool and collected style,
and his body hits with the right were delivered
with lightning-like ability and effect. Hall is un-
doubtedly a tradesman of the first water, and he
was at his beet on Siturdav night. Murphy and
Dasrfoot, both from New Zealand, went at it as if
life was too short to fool it away in sparring for an
opening, and at the end of three rounds had
knocked themselves to a standstill. The wind-up
was between Fogarty and the determined
youngster, Kelly, who hits like the kick of a two-
year-old, and had all the best of Fogarty in their
four rot nds.
The Australian Eleven, in the match
against the Gentlemen of England, kept up the
reputation of their predecessors in the matter of
playing an uphill game to the bitter end. Four
hundred and seventy-one was a crusher to start
against, but nothirg daunted they went to work—
against weak bowling, it is true-and before they
were finished had put together the enormous
score of 488, Simmy Jones topping the list with
161. The Englishmen were all disposed of in their
second effort for 105, and as it was too late
for the Australians to commence batting, the
match resulted In a draw very muon ia
their favour. The Cabbage Gardeners will, do
doubt, point out in due time that the principal
Sortlon of both batting and bowling fell to the
ew South Welshmen, but In case they should
pass the matter over, we will refresh their memo-
ries Well, Jones, Garrett, and Evans scored pretty
well half the runs between them, and in the bowl-
ing department the trio had matters all to them-
selves. Sydneyites must be pleased to see their
favourite, Ted Evans, Is coming off in both de-
partments of the game, but loud and deep are the
curses of the Haymarket contingent over the
fact that their idol is invariably sent in to bat last.
Crick, Cameron, Caulfield, Cassin, are just
a few of the men ambitious to wear the Mudgee
mantle which Sir John Robertson has taken off.
Just fancy, from Robertson to “ Cheers-for-the-
Queen Crick”! The only analagous descent is
from “Wintworth” to Dan. O’Connor. Mudgee
will possibly have a large choice, but if the dark
horse from the Murrumbldgee enters he will pro-
bably be very adjacent at the finish.
Actuated by the shocking social and spiri-
tual condition of the colony, on the 15th day of
this month, 10 ladies and gentlemen assembled to-
gether in the parlour of the Y.M C.A. Hall, Ade-
laide, to have a day’s humiliation and prayer.
They spent the time-so then say—in reading the
Bible and saying prayers. “In the latter,” we
read, “ reference was made to all the recent cases
of immorality, embezzlement, and forgery.” All
the cases! They must have started early and got
home late.
“Ike” appears to be fast becoming a public
character in Sydney, and as the inquiry into the
North Harbour mystery progresses, fresh reports
as to his mental and spiritual condition are con-
stantly appearing. The latest is as follows: “His
general character as far as honesty is concerned
was very good; as for sobriety, very bad when
grog was left in his way; his intelligence, nil; and
his truthfulness unheard of and unknown in his
oompoution.” This deserlpfon presents a strik-
ing portrait of some one we knew, but we have
been vainly trying to recollect any member of
Parliament who bears the name of Ike.
The Sydney U.T., writing on the Jubilee
gorge at the Town Hall, describes the Governor
as looking “ soldierly and princely” in his official
uniform. What harm has Lord Cariugtou ever
done the D.T. that it should compare him to a
priace ? Next to his Excellency was “the stolid
figure of the Admiral,” whose gazo was fixed on
the victuals; and then came “the head of the
Church of England”—only the head, the tall, and
cloven hoofs having taken a back seat. The
United States Consul alone appeared ia evening
dress, the rest of the crowd, from the Kyardinal
down to the Mayor being togged out in various
kinds of livery.
Mr. Walter Coonau, M.L. A., is not happy,
for a “ Fisher’s ghost ” in the shape of a verdict
of £450 and costs, has been raised up to distress
him. The successful plaintiff was a former client,
who managed to prove that Mr. Coonan and his
one-time partner had not displayed sufficient dili-
gence in conducting a previous case. This verdict
is refreshing, for it is a rare thing to see a lawyer
smashed by the hammer which the profession use
with such gratifying results—to themselves. But
we remember one other lawyer who used so little
diligence with the money-to the tune of £IOO,COD
or so—of his trustful clients’, that when they ulti-
mately went to get it, they found It wasn’t there.
Mr Fisher, a jovial type of squatter, may be con-
sidered lucky. He has obtained a verdict against
a lawyer who is able to stump up the full
amount. A verdict against some lawyers we have
heard of would not be worth a Post-office carving.
The state of the Melbourne Hospital is
getting to be something beyond a Joke. The
deadly condition of that benevolent institution
was again illustrated last week at the expense of a
young man named Lawson. This unfortunate
happened to cut his hand with a broken bottle,
and Innocently went to the hospital to get it
dressed. Lawson only stayed one night in the
ward, but that night was sufficient. The ward,
according to the coroner’s admission, is “ saturated
with erysipelas,” and Lawson succumbed to the
acquired disease a few days later. The fatal re-
nown of Melbourne’s premier hospital is spreading
abroad. The Yarra ia going right out of fashion
with would-be suicides. The man who is weary of
life quietly pricks his little finger with a needle,
bids his family an affectionate farewell, and walks
into the hospital. It la a respectable method of
attempting suicide, and the chances of rescue are
remote.
Tfee Australian Baron Tennyson, i e. Poet
Halloran, C M.G , has had a new brew, dated from
“Mowbray,” whlchlwe at first read as “More
Bray.” The poet, in short, has been delivered of
a “Jubilee Ode,” which the Sydney dally press,
with ‘its tongue in its vast expanse of cheek
—the dally Press aforesaid carefully omits to
print any samples of this laboured-lyrical jubi-
lation—pronounces to be a work of genius. The
whole arrangement is in the key of Slobber. That
impecunious German person, “Albert the Good,”
who got £6O OJO a year from the long-suffering
British public to be good, and who, if he hadn’t
been pretty good, would have been a bigger fool
than the ordinary poverty-stricken Teuton, is
alluded to as “ Peerless Albert ” in a line which
runs—” When Peerless Albert in his conscious
soul.” May heaven forgive you, Poet Halloran!
May you be made a K U.M.G.
The people of Tasmania are evidently not
more loyal than the rest of the colonies; in
fact, they have so far lost all recollection of Vic.
that it has become necessary to teach thorn that
fine old German air, “ God save the Queen,” for a
special occasion. At least, that is the conclusion
the Launceston Examiner has come to. Or is it
that the enterprising management desire to push
business, and that is the explanation of the fol-
lowing par. in a recent issue:—“Accession of
Queen Victoria.—Sunday, June 30, will be an im-
portant date in the annals of the reign of Queen
Victoria, for on that date she will enter upon the
jubilee year of her sovereignty, it being the 49th
anniversary of her brilliant reign. A desire has
been manifested for the National Anthem to be
sung in the various churches during Divine wor-
ship on that day, and to this end copies of
the Anthem have been specially printed at the
Examiner office.”
A Ballarat young man has disgraced him-
self for ever in the eyes of the local maidens.
When they want to hurt his feelings they just put
a white handkerchief over their heads and cry,
“Bob!” It happened in this way. There lis a
spectre ia the neighbourhood, and the other even-
ing a nervous little darling said she was afraid to
walk home alone for fear of meeting the ghost,
so this young man took upon himself the role of
protector. With the eloquence of a Bob Acres he
dwelt upon the absolute necessity of teaching the
ghost a lesson if ho —Bob Acre —got hold of him.
He took a thick stick and a poker, and the maiden
accompanied him with a blushing face and trust-
ing heart. The young man might have been
looked up to by the sex till his dying day, save for
ono unfortunate circumstance. They did meet
tne ghost. The maiden fainted and her escort
pitched away the thick stick and the poker and
proceeded to cut the records from 100 yards to a
miU, Somebody carried the frightened girl home,
and there she remains in a weak state. The young
man also reached home in a weak state. The
thick stick and poker are believed to have been
carr el off as trophies by the victorious spectre.
The question of beef v. salvation came up
at the Balmain (Sydney) Police Court last week'
and, we r- gret to learn, beef came off second
best. This is to bo deplored, as salvation is a
luxury and beef an absolute necessary. A blood-
stained butcher, named Bliss, sued the Army for
playing musical instruments in front of his house
whi)e his daughter was lying seriously ill, and
stated that they declined to pay any attention to
his request that they should desist. Instead of
stopping,.the captain,when the circumstances were
laid beiore him, merely jammed his celestial crown
down on his celestial head, and ordered tne band
to “ play up,” which they immediately did.
For the defence, it appeared that the band had
discoursed sweet melody before the house on a
previous occasion, and were fully confident that
the young lady had died from the strains. Conse-
quently, they set down her lather’s statements as
“a bluff,” and stood their ground. If they had
played in front of the Court there can be little
doubt a eonviotion and a sentence of sjx months
would have been the rtsult, but acting under legal
advice, they refrained, and the case was dismissed.
Truly, the Moslem was a wise man when he said
that no one can escape from sorrow, and Mr. Bliss,
with a Salvation band playing before his door, and
? hysterical daughter upstairs, furnishes (rrlking
estimony of the correctness of his assertion.
The Sydney D.T. stigmatised the speakers
at the Newtown meeting in favour of the Govern-
ment fiscal proposals, as being, almost without
exception, financially interested in the adoption
of the cause they advocated. But the same little
point can be urged against the most vehement
and noisy of the Freetraders. The importers are
not less anxious to sustain their present monopoly
than the manufacturers and men are to break
it down. Nor are they less ready with subsidy,
either direct or by the instrumentality of adver-
tisements. There was a time when the D.T. Itself
made love in a lukewarm style to Protectionist
theories. That it has since changed is, of course,
owing to conscientious conversion, brought about
possibly by the eminent Mr. Guliett, who was so
long in the Melb. Argus office that he has learned
to regard Protection as blasphemy; but still a
relapse from Freetrade principles might possibly
mean a direct loss of advertisements, sufficient to
put a very different face on the balance-sheet.
Ihe D.T. might keep this line of abuse out of
sight. Every cause is advocated by men personally
interested in its success. It is to the disinterested
that the appeal is made, and it is their support
alone which wins the ultimate victory.
The Police Magistrate atCootamundrahas
had several days’ hard work recently, and has
strained his intelligence to the utmost in the
effort to decide whether the Rev. Joseph Butler is
a wolf in sheep’s clothing or the pure-bred Primi-
tive Methodist merino he has hitherto appeared.
The public, too, have been excited, and the clergy-
man has undergone an upheaval that has seriously
shaken his faith ia a cause that gives him only
£l5O a year and leaves him to find his own horse. The
question at issue is whether Mr. Butler has four
children living, or five, and considering that on
his own showing he only gets his modest salary
when he can, and goes without it the rest of the
time, it is needless to say that the rev. gentleman
goes hij whole pile—consisting of a piece of
land at Newcastle—on the smaller number.
Tae plaintiff in this caso is a member of
his Hock, and her evidence regarding her alleged
seduction is backed up to a great extent by her
sister’s testimony. As a consequence of this, Mr.
Butler was Invited to engage in something else
than spiritual communion by an infuriated family
conclave, and was suspended—not by the neck but
by his clerical superiors—until the matter was set-
tled. During the progress of the difficulty, we are
glad to record, no actual violence was resorted to,
but had it been attempted, the clergyman’s muscu-
lar powers, carefully trained during his previous
career as a coal-heaver, would probably have
carried him through the trial. The weight of
evidence appeared to be in favour of the plaintiff,
but still it was only a case of swearing on both
sides, and the Rev. Joseph ultimately issued from
the fiery furnace without even the tails of his
clerical coat being singed. Something is said of an
appeal and a new trial, but at all events a great
point has been gained when the clergyman has
been formally declared to be a pure-bred lamb,
instead of the dubious cross-bred animal he was
alleged to be, and the field will, we trust, be again
open to him for saving souls at £3 a week, and no
horse found as before.
Australia Illustrated.
Tor the first time in her hundred years of history,
Australia has a chance of fair illustration, in a great
work which the Picturesque AtUs Publishing Co.
are about to introduce to the world. The Atlas has
been pretty well introduced to Australia In the
days of its first inception, the proprietors were as
well aware of the advantages of a proper intro-
duction as any mother of the world with a half-
dozen daughters, whose expenses are at least
equal to their attractions. And so the men cleverest
and best trained in this work of introduction were
brought over from America and set to rouse up
the sluggish interest of Australia. You met them
of course, all of you. You gave them the order ?
Of course you did, and now you want to know what
sort of a book you are to get. What have they
done to make th - ; book? Let us see now: the first
thing necessary to a good book is a good head, if
there are many departments several good heads.
These people wanting, in the first place, to assure
people that they were going to bring out some-
thing of which no man need be ashamed, sought
to first obtain the best literary reputation in Aus-
tralia, and secured the services of Andrew Gar-
ran, LL D, for a quarter of a century editor of
the Sydney Morning Herald, as their editor in
chief. Then they sought out men to write under
the doctor, specialists along the many lines in
which the various numbers and chapters of the
book will travel. Ujlversity professors. State
geologists, Professor Ellery (of Melbourne), Baron
von Mueller, Dr. von Lendenfeld, Messrs. James
Smith and J. L. Dow, with Sutherland (historian
of Melbourne), and Messrs. P. Myers and G.
Barton (of Sydney) as descriptive writers.
Then amongst artists, and as was necessary and in
accordance with the character of the book artists
were the main consideration, every man in Aus.
tralla who had any name and fame was instantly
put in oommission-L Buvelot. J Mather, J.
Roberts J. Paterson, Piguient, the Collingrldges,
the Ashtons, M’Leod, Hoyt?, Cayley, Falwood
-'these of Australia; but as amongst all
these the special faculty of organisation and
the fitting artistic ideas to the exigencies
of steam printing were not found in the desired
quanities, Mr. F. B. Schell, a name which you
may find attached to some of the best work in
Harper’s and Scribner’s magazines, and most of
the high and fine art publications of New York
was brought over. Mr. Schell was made director-
in-chief of the art department, and, in addition to
ail purchaseable Australian talent, he obtained
the assistance of Mr. Smediey and Mr. Pittler,
both known to all who know anything of the later
and more beautiful development of boo* illustra-
tion. Men in the first rank of the world’s artists
the canvassers told you, and they didn’t lie j ast
there because there was no need. All these goad
men were brought together, and set to wander up
and down in this Australian world, and to
go to and fro in it. And many of them have been
and returned, and have brought their sheaves with
them of full portfolios, and have hung their
flfished sketches on their studio walls; so that in
those studios the intelligent critic may now for
the first time see picturesque Australia, not illus-
trated only, but interpreted. Still, however, maps
were required, and to make the mapi Mr. D.
MacDonald, C B , was installed with a competent
staff, who are producing the best geographi-
cal work. All these beautiful work; had to be
engraved, and the engraved blocks had to be
eleotrotyped, the plates had to be fitted
on the press, and everything prepared for
turning out from twenty to thirty thousand
complete copies of each. In due course
it was all arranged. Mr. B.ker became chief
engraver; he had shown his capacity by years of
perfect work in New York Mr. Eveson, with
four stalwart sons, all taught by himself in the
intricacies of the difficult and beautiful art, took
the work of making the electrotypes in hand.
The best presses the genius of the world has
developed and perfected were fitted up In the
basement, the specially manufactured paper
was unpacked, and the printing began under the
direction of Mr. M. Bmrich, of New York.
Already it is well under weigh. With infinite
labour, and care, and zeal each separte de-
partment performs its allotted task, and the
result Is perfection. The distribution of the
first numbers, to be made in a few weeks,
will make this abundantly clear, and the first
glimpse of the book will convince every in-
telligent Australian who is not yet a subscriber,
that he has one duty which should precede his
evening prayers. Two, in fact; he will see that his
Bulletin subscription is paid up first, and then
he will take his pen and write to the Picturesque
Atlas of Publishing Co., Limited, Wynyard-square,
Sydney, praying that his name may be forthwith
placed on their subscribers’ list.


The MODERN ARTFURNISHING
OF
ions, UH DM, S CO,
POMEEOY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenaeum Club.
T
HBSE RECENTLY-ERECTED
MAGNIFICENT PILE OF BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN FITTED
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Rros, and Co. r
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE
IN MODEEN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to ail tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
the Quality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a MinfratfflT,
as the arrangements entered into by JONES, LAWSON BROS., and CO. with the Leading Manu-
facturers of Great Britain and the Continent are of such a nature that they are enabled to offer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
ONES, LAWSON BROS., and CO. offer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at Astopissingly
Low Prig is, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by"
reason of great cost, from enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been specially fitted up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being; adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MANSIONS FURNISHED
i
the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contract or otherwise, arw3
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception of intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Cast la reagh-st real.
Warehouse and Stores: Hoskins Place.
HORDERNS
ON THB
Brickfield. HOU-
-01 STAY Oil CORSET DEFARTMEHT.
Sta/s sent to any Railway Station
Prei oe Charge*
/(?
CO
vJV
4
uO
/"
rn
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Cal!in mnd See our
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBI/S, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. M., 4s. 6d.,.45. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. fid., 12s fid
EDWARD HORDERN AND $ ONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
NH.-onler. from tlio country r: 111 receive Immediate and oarctul attention.
BENNETT & WOOD,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR VICTOR BIOYOLR.
Our VICTOR EXCELSIOR BICYCLE
has Ball-bearings to both wheels, Hollow
Front and Back Forks, Eliptical Backbone,
Detachable Handle-bar, part of backbone,
and all back forks, step, cranks, and pedals.
PRICE, COMPLETE,
£l7 10s.
A Large Stock of
“RUDGE” BICYCLES
AND SAFETIES ON HAND.
ROADSTERS, SEMI-RACERS & RACERS.
The largest assortment of every make
in the colonies.
BICYCLES (new) from £6 10s.
Repairs by Coventry Experts,
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Cat this advertisement out when making application.
PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Australian, Loan, Discount & Financial Company,
Limited.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, 1871.
CAPITAL—£IOO,O?O Sterling, in 100*000 Shares of £1 each (of which more than half have
already been subscribed for).
CALLS.—One Shilling per Share Upon application} One Shilling on allotment, and the
balance in One Shilling Calls at intervals of one month.
■ PROVISIONAL DIRECTORY.
JOHN KIDD, Esq., M.P. for Camden
J. P. MARTIN, Esq., A.M. Inst., Civil Engineer,
'Sydney
JOHN H. NATHAN, Esq , Merchant, Sydney
P. J. FARRELL, Esq., Merchant, Sydney
G. B. THOMAS, Esq.. Solicitor, Sydney
ARNOLD MATHEY, Esq, Merchant} Hunter-
JOHN VANN, Esq. (Yann, Barrington & Co.), En-
gineers and Ironfounders, Sydney
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, Esq., M.P. for West Sydney
H. P, FALSER, Esq., Merchant, Sydney
Dr. G. H. MONTEITH, F.R.C.B, Sydney
B. C. ROBERTS. Esq.. Gentleman, Sydney
JOHN SCOTT, Esq., Wholesale Stationer, Sydney
C. 8. GILLETT, Beq. (Gillett Freres, Bordeaux and
Reims), Sydney
A. MURRAY (A. Muttay and Go.), Tea Merchants.
Sydney
TEMPORARY OFFICES, 32 SYDNEY ARCADE.
Secretary, pro tem.; R. M. CALLENAN, late Manager of the Bank of Auslralaela.
Solicitor: J. M. CURTIS, Esq., Philip-street, Sydney.
Auditors: Messrs. CHAB. KENT, and G. A. BUCK, Pltt-street.
Bankers; LONDON CHARTERED BANK—Head Office, Sydney.
The Share List will close at an early date, the bulk of Shares having been absorbed. Shares will be
allotted in order of application.
Applications for Shares to be addresssed to the temporary office of the Company, 33 Sydney Arcade.
Cheques and Post Office Orders to be crossed to the Company’s Bankers* The London Chartered Bank,
Sydney
BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY,
This Company Is formed for the purpose of conducting a commereial loan business upon Mercantile
principles by making cash advances and guarantees to Merchants, Traders, and private persons, upon
the security of Bills of Lading, Storage and Bond Certificates, Deeds, Shares in Banks and public Com-
panies. Bills of Sale, Government and Municipal securities, &c.; also discounting Trade Bills and ad-
vances upon any adequate security.
The success attending this class of business by all Loan Offices and Companies is well known, suffice
to say that investments in a Coinpany of this kind are a certainty, and the Company can secure such
profits as will ensure good, if not largo, dividends for its shareholders, without resorting to the spuri-
ous rates charged by private Loan Offices, and in so doing the Directors anticipate that the Company
will be amply compensated by largely increased business.
TheOompany’s ftdvhfafies Will only be made by the Directors upon ample and tangible securities of a
commercial character, after proper valuation by the Company’s valuers. They will not act a* Pawn-
brokers, as It is desirable that the Company should attain such tone as to make it a favourite medium
with commercial ffiefi. The advances will also be at short bill, usually one to four months, or repay-
able by instalments.
The Company will alio receive money ofi deposit at current market rates of interest.
By its incorporation, this Company will be enabled to transact business that the Banks cannot en-
tertain, being contrary to their Charters, although of a much safer and more profitable ohaarcter, and
this Company will make no advances whatever without ample security and fair profits. In addition
to this they will also transact ordinary banking business for such Merchants or Traders who have only
limited or no banking accommodation.
It will tbus be seen that there Is ample scope for the Company’s operations, and, in fact, the
necessity of a respectable company for this class of business has long been recognised in commercial
ciroies.
It is also desirable to point out that Shares in this Company are not a speculation but an investment
through which surplus funds can bo profitably employed to the best advantage with ample security,
so that large or small sums of money can bo depended upon to return far larger percentages of profits
than any bank will pay for deposits. In addition to which the Company's stock will no d jubt almost
immediately be at a premium, so that money Invested in shares will not be locked up, but will be avail-
able whenever required.
The Gompany can also advance money to its members when required upon Shares held by them.
Confidence and secrecy respecting clients’ business being a most important factor, only men of
proved integrity and ability will be employed, and aU, together with the Directors, are pledged to
strictest secrecy respecting clients, so that business transacted with this Company can be depended
upon not to jeopardise borrower’s credit or position.
It being desirable that the Company’s proprietary should include of all classes In the community, no
more than 2000 shares will be issued to any single person, the Calls are also made at such a rate as to
enable this result to be attained.
A large number of shares having already been applied for, the balance are now effered to the public,
which will be allotted in the order applied for, until the share list is complete.
The General Meetings of the Company will be held half-yearly, when balance-sheets will be sub-e-
-mitted and the dividends declared.
In placing the balance of shares of this Company on the market, the Directors submit with every’
confidence that it is equal to any now before the public as a safe and profitable investment, suitable for 1
all classes in the community.
Intending Shareholders will please cut this out and forward to the Offices
of the Company, 33 Sydney Arcade.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
TO THE DIRECTORS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN. DISCOUNT, AND FINANCIAL COMPANY,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Gbntmmen,
Herewith please, find enclosed the turn of £ : : , being
deposit of One Shilling (is.) per Share on Shares in the
AUSTRALIAN LO\N, DISCOUNT, and FINANCIAL COMPANY,
LIMITED. 1 request you to allot me that or aay less number of Shares,
subject tolhe Company’s registered Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion, to which 11 ereby subscribe, and request my name being attached
thereto; and I to accept the same, and to pay calls thereon, and
request my name being placed upon the Register of Members for the
number of Shares allotted to me.
Name in full
Address.
Profession (if any)
Date


Marie Brlzardl
Wolfe's Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for Wolfh s.
The British are a liberty-loving people
and enjoy privileges denied in other Countries
Without the express and unbiassed consent of his
wife, no married naan in Austria can obtain
a pass-port for travelling beyond the frontier.
Were sucb a law in existence in Australasia,
how reduced would be the visitors from our
neighbouring colonies. The showrooms and ex-
hibits of art china and glaes. well known through-
out the colonies as Bray’s, 403 and 401 George-street,
would then be known to many only by hearsay,
while free from passport restrictions gentlemen
can come without their better half’s consent and
choose, as many do, an elegant Dinner and Tea set
to adorn and add somfort to their homes. Most
people kiow it is there the largest and best
selected stock of crockery is kept *
Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brlzardl
Prosecute the (Swindlers! l
If when you call for American Hop Bitters
(see green twig of Hops on the white label and
Dr. Soule's name blown in each bottle) the
vendor hands out anything hut American
Hop Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor
as you would a viper ; and if he has taken
your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud, and sue him for damages for
the swindle, and we will reward you liber-
ally for the conviction.
" I Have Buffered.
With every disease imaginable for the last
three years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, recommending
“ Hop Bitters ” to me,
I used two bottles !
Am entirely cured and heartily recom-
mend Hop Bitters to every one.
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
Counter'citing Proves Superiority
“Although counterfeiting is one of the
greatest crimes againt the business ©f any
country and in many casi-s—
-“ Destructive of health and life I”
“ It proves beyond a doubt the”
“Superiority”—
Of the article counterfeited ;
As no Inferior article is ever counterfeited
Proof of this is found in the great number
in
“ Australia, England, France,
“Germany, India, Belgium, Canada and the
[J.B.
Of counterfeits of the great remedy,
“ Hop Bitters,”
Whose name and merits are so well known
the world over that it is a
“Shining mark and favorite prey
“ For counterfeiters !! !”
Beware of all that does not have a green
cluster of hops on the white label.
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse It and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else Indict him
for the fraud and sue him tor damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
C. I/OITGESTAKT,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
“All Nations.” “Prince Imperial,” “Our Girls,”
Boston Bride,” and our “ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos —“ Boston Navy,” “ Prince Imperial,”
“Boudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores ;
639 an 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “Masslllia,” 12 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Qlgarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorougn connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
u Epillsr’s,”
whose reputation Is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’B ESTABLISHMENTS
320 and 416 Georoe-st.,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
GOSFORD
MODEL FARMS.
SECURE some of this RICH PASTORAL LAND
before the Railway opens.
Illustrated pamphlets, containing all informa-
tion, views, and hints to Farmers and Settlers,
sent free by
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
IffTHB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
<64 PITT-SMREBT, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 675,000
Ibis Bank has Aa-enta in all the prlncipalolties
1 iflhroughout the UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
sand CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
i ‘dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
1 saand Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
©rafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at Kites which can be ascertained on
amplication.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in Eve ry Sense.
ħ
DOGS
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS]
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES, VrSA 1 ;’ AND IS
AT THE SAME] TIME QUItE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS
FOWLS OR OTHERS®'
ANIMALS
U s
0
|H S
f
4
.ji
jy^'jkr
23
Belton- grimwadeuc®
I MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, ana
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dostes of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEE CHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the systesa. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired -digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Oough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed,
Cautiost.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Bbbcham’s Pills, Sfc. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, .Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is, Hd. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
to, Lmn Bn:., I Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £3 15s,
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM.
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BBAS3 BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSOTT BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O, Box 766, Sydney,
'
I
h
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-stroat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
SUSIO
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.®
Catalogues Sc Prices on Application.
6. H. PALING & Co.
SSS George-street, Sydney.
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Boobs, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c,, the whole of which must bo cleared
out. Discount 35 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices. Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr-sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Musis, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and giris; Nautical
W orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &s.; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries. Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
and Tea Trays
PHOTO, ALBUMS In Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
I CCQUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books In every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS. Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS' MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WiLLIMIi BULLARO,
842 GEORGE STREET.
B
YKRYBODY
SHOULD USB
\
PEMELLI /B
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FIiOUR
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
IB GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
i SSI «eor*e-street, Syfln r.
CORRESPONDENCE
ICorretpondenU who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.! .
“Brenda,” and all the universe in general:
We are full up of Ly-ee-Moon poetry. Any
future poems on the subjeci will be pasted up
on town hoardings for the street boys to throw
mud at..." T. Youcg ” (Newcastle): (1) The length
of a railway system depends so much on pictur-
esque lying that it is difficult to answer your ques-
tion. The last time the Americans spoke the
truth on this subject was in 1876, and then the
Unitod States possessed 77,457 miles against
about 104,500 for the rest of the world. Since
then, however, the Yankees have gone ahead both
in lying and railways, and are now believed to be
very little behind. (3) Also depends greatly on
lying, but the Telegraph is understood to be a
long way in front. The S.M. Herald leaders are a
heavy handicap. Weight will tell. (3) According
to the census of 1881, Liverpool had 555,073 and
Glasgow 513,034 inhabitants. The people of the
latter city, however, are understood to declare
this is a fraud....“U.S.W.”: Your contributions
show some thought, and a lot of work, but no
genius...." W.W.R.”: You say your poem was
written at the age of 15 years. We fully believe
you. It is very crude, though fairly metrical....
‘Wanderer ”: Contributions, if acknowledged, are
not necessarily published. Cannot remember fate
of your lines....“lgnoramus”: Have published
figures for ’B4. Will print those of 'B5 shortly....
“ W.H.S.”: Will work up shortly...." Not a Con-
stant Subscriber”: Glad to hear from y0u....
“G.C.S.”: The Treasurer's contention is that the
preparation in question is especially taxable as
being heavily loaded with alcohol—“ J.P.”: Our
definition of a modern bishop is—a fatseif-satisfled
gentleman, who gets as much coin annually as
would have kept the whole early Christian
Church going comfortably for the first century,
..."J.8.”; How can you waste your time
writing like that when there is blue metal to be
broken?...."Civis”: We cannot voice your libel-
ous imputations. Nor do we feel inclined to.
Mistakes will occur, and if, as the management
explained, your seat? had not been marked off,
although the tickets were issued, this would
account for the contretemps .. “ C.0.H.”: You will
write poetry in time—perhaps about 4000 a.d....
“Thos. Hines”: Thanks; but as we have already
published similar matter, do not feel justified in
giving space to your slating of Mr.Pulsford and the
E N.. “ J.P.8.”: The re appearance is as welcome as
the “ echoing voice of an old, old love,long dead.’*
...." E. S. Walcott: ” You say the main question is
that the sugar planters want the Chinese, and that,
as the latter can become naturalised at Hong
Kong, they cannot be prohibited from staying
hefe. There are many ways of grappling with
this difficulty. The case is ten times worse in
Frisco, for the Mongolians there are possessed of
mmense freeholds within the city from which
they can never te expelled by direct process of
legislation. But ultimately they will find it best
to go. As to the importation of multitudes of
coolie labourers by the sugar-planters, we think
the evil very remote, so long as the Australian
labourers have votes "Simplex” (Cairns):
What in the name of the N.Z. earthquake are you
writing about ? And who is this dead Levy you
keep passing lon to us ? Farewell, dear friend,
farewell...." R.J.”: As widespread as the industry
of jumping Mount Morgan "Medico” (New-
castle): Give him a wide berth...."Tamworth”:
The pamphlet is now very scarce and valuable.
We don’t know where it can be bought. Send to
Mr. Dymock,Pitt-street, Sydney... “R.J.J.”; The
Bible—assisted by the bayonet—is tha secret of
England’s greatness...." Workman ”: Impossible
to answer your question without knowing the
constitution of the organisation. Will deal with
report in another issue...." James Osborne”
(Murrumburrah): We still think that the verse,
even with your emendation, is hog wash. We can-
not spare space to deal with your political ideas,
more especially as they are summed In the com-
pass of one idea—the restriction of the natural
increase of population...."P.J.D.”: Neither;
Montgomery is the author. About a mile and a
half.. .“A Bricke”; Impossible to afford neoes-
gy apace...."M.3.”: Received....." J. Hassell :
The letters " A.K.C. ” after a parson’s name mean
"A Klever Cove.” They have special reference
to the altitude of the offertories he raises....
“Ambulator”: Not this time...." Charles Her-
bert”; Your verse is prose, and there is nothing
sufficiently attractive in the motif to make it in-
teresting at that “Taralgan”: It was the
orthography of your surname that intrigued us
for we thought it was not as usual. Our mistake
Lunatic”: Quite so.


WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 clarence street. Sydney
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
ETOIES.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP.
BUT HOW GOOD I
1
FLEMINGS
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
i Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call audlnspeet-
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, ho.
Rrass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmithing, Blaoksmithipg,
Brass ana ueu and Gird^r Building, Electric and Pneumatic Beil-flttm#
Plumbing, Gasfitting, ~ r-”,.
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALW “TACUUM” WATBK-WASTB
s o } e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application
1
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
ssa
Utm
V
Scrofula on Neckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
liss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soar, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itoßing and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
•with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Bend for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ĥ
ħ
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs. &c.
S. ROEENTHAL, Fipemakez,
1 Liltle Coillns-atreet, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
rjIHE
CLIMAX OF PERFECTION!
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEEEAQH STREET,
Near Market-street.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PAHIS,IB7B, CATXIU TTA, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence ot quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGrNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses inc numcious ,
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKIMSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting m use.
of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Streep, London
Trade Hark—“ White Hose" on“ Golden
Lyre.”
■VTERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address—Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
|W WEDDINGS, BALLS. PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mnTH Hotel id centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, jfco
T superior for pfflles and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirit.
Iffie most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar m the city.
LEA& P E R RIN S' SAU C E
SAlICf'
■©TO*
IE A sTplElrrin^
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE ivhick are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
hears their Signature thus —•
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &c., &*c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
h
The "LOUIS’*
' VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of ton
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
LOUIS" VELVETEEN.
the
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OUi
application. '
M
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
11 mu.
B 7 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.*
m
ilml
mm.
immrnjiiiiiumiiiii
SPECIALLY IMPOKTBD FOB CITY OB OOUNTBY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED.
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
A 1
LOWEST PRICES.
i
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
iar BVBKY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.


Marie Brizard I
■Wolfe's Schnapps is the only genuine
Schnapps— Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
A POPULAR FALLACY.
Many people Ihink that rheumatism cannot be
cured. It is caused by a bad state of the blood
which deposits poisonous matter in the joints and
muscles, causing lameness, stiffness, and swelling
of the joints, and excruciating pains. Dr. Bell’s
(Kidney and Liver) Bitters will certainly effect
a cure. They act on the kidneys, liver and bowels,
stimulating them to a healthy action, purifying
and enrishing the blood and eliminating the poison
from the system. Go to the nearest druggist, buy
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and be cured.
That furred tongue, bad tasting mouth
and miserable feeling, say you need American
Co.’s Hop Bitters. Read and believe
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri-
cans all drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
FOR PALE, LANGUID,
emaciated children, with pimply, sallow skin, the
Cuti Cuba Resolvent will prove a blessing at
once, cleansing the blood and liver of fermentive
germs which are sure to develop into scrofula,
rheumatism, consumption, or severe skin diseases.
Mothers will And the Cuticura Remedies absolu-
tely infallible in cleansing the system of ulcerative
weaknessces and debilitating disease?. Full
directions accompanying each package of Be-
solvent for the composition of cleansing washes
and healing application. No household can afford
to be without these wholesome blood purifiers and
i kin beautifiers.
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Genuine
mad© by American Co. Notice
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
Marie Brizard I
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. ihe Prince of Wales.
King |of the Netherlands.
extra dry
Reims
Agents for New South Wales
HJ.M. ihe Czar of Russia.
TKAPP & ELLES,
54 MAR6ARET STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
/#/>
2SS
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 10 and 11 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST. } SYDNEY.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED*.
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:— SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; PIVB PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 1 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
JUDSONS ALPHABET
OF
Useful Household Necessities!!
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers. &c.. Everywhere.
B
stands for Artists’ Black.
Is. and 3«. 6d. per bottle.
Or EBONY ENAMEL. For renewing Ebonised
Cabinet?, Desks, Work-boxes, &o, &o. The
expenditure of a few shillings and a little
labour will be amply repaid by the results
produced.
stands for Black All,
63. and Is. per bottle.
Imparts a brilliant and lasting polished f urface
to stoves. Fenders, Pireirons, and all kinds of
Iron Work, resembling polished Black Marble.
C stands for Cooling Crystals
Is. per bottle.
A popular and agreeable Remedy for Remov-
ing all Impurities from the blood, correcting
irregularities of the stomach or sluggish ac-
tion of the Liver, Biliousness, Constipation,
Headache, &c., and imparting general tone to
tbe jaded system.
D stands for Dyes,
63. per bottle.
Tbe simplest and best, because they are liquid.
Avoid inferior imitations, which sgoil the
goods.
E stands for u Emeriti*,”
3d. and 63. per box.
BUST EXTRACTOR and POLISH for Brass,
Copper, Steel, &c , &c.
F stands for Filters.
Judson’s “Perfect Purity” Filters are THE
ONLY reliable Alters. Highest awards : Diplo-
ma of Merit, Diploma of Honour and Silver
medal. Inventions Exhibition, London, 1885.
Catalogues, post free.
G stands for Gold Paint,
1». 6d. and 3». 63. per bottle.
For Gliding Picture Frames, Cornices, Baskets,
and for all kinds of Artistic Decoration.
H stands for Housekeepers,
Who may rave many pounds during the year
by using JDDSON’S CEMENT for Mending
Broken China. GOLD PAINT. DYES, WOOD
STAINS, MARKING INKS, &c., &c.
I stands for lekstands,
Is. 61. and 3t. each.
Ask for the Patent “Carlyle,” a most econo-
mical and ingenious invention.
J stands for Judson ! I!
** A name worth remembering. This name la on
every article, without which none are genuine.
K
stands for 44 Krokum,”
63. and la. per bottle.
“KROKUM’’has been put up to supply the
great demand for a really good INSECT DES-
TROYER, and may be confidently relied on to
hill all hinds of Insects, some one or more of
wh’ch infest almost every house.
stands for LBine Juice,
63. and 1?. per bottle.
Warranted pure. A delicious drink when di-
lut’d with water ; sugar’may be added to suit
the taste.
stands for Marking Ink,
6 ]. and Is. per bottle.
May be relied upon as a FIRST-CLASS Article,
in any way. It is fast against washing or boil-
ing, and will not injure any delicate article
upon which it may be used.
N
stands for “Noswal,”
and Is. per bottle.
A CERTAIN CURB for CHAPPED HANDS.
CHILBLAINS and ROUGH SKIN.
0
stands for Ornament.
JUDSON’S GOLD PAINT, DYES, WOOD
STAINS, BLACK-ALL, ARTISTS’ BLACK and
FURNITURE BLACK are most useful for Deco-
rating the House.
p stands
for Paint Gleaner.
Id. and 63. per packet.
For removing all Dirt and Stains from Paint
Work in Rooms, Baths, &o. Try it for clean-
ing; EVERYTHING ; the results are most
striking.
stands for Quality.
All Judson’s Specialities are made from the
very best materials. Beware of useless
imitations.
R stands for 44
A New Patent to 1
Reservoir
1 take the |ln tmmi. M
place of the old-fashioned
brush
and well for Damping the Leaves of
Letter Copying Books, 3s. each.
s
stands for Scent
6d. and Is.
Sachets.
These Sachets retain their delicious scent for
years and are a Sure Preventive against Moth.
T stands for Tale phono.
Price £3. 3s.
No establishment is complete without one or
more of “ JUDSON’S HOUSEHOLD TELE-
PHONES.” No Electricity. Cannot get out
of order.
U stands for Utility.
All JUDSON’S SPECIALITIES are Useful,
Economical, and Labour-Saving Articles. No
housewife should be without them.
Y
stands for Value.
It would be impossible to overstate the value
of JUDSON’S NECESSITIES to the Public-
Bveryone may use them with advantage,
stands for Wood Stains.
6d., Is., 2s. and 4s. per bottle.
For Staining, Improving, Preserving, and
Imitating eveiy known kind of Wood,
whether bard or soft, with or without grain;
these Stains, being a Varnish and Stain
combined, require neither size nor knotting
before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who never Stained now Stain the
more.”
X
stands for ’Xcellence.
Many years’ experience has proved the Ex-
cellence and intrinsic Merits of JDDBON’S
USEFUL 1 HOUSEHOLD I I NECESSI-
TIES I 1 I
Y
stands for Youth.
Young people may find endless amusement
and useful employment by painting with
JUDSON’S GLITTBRINB. Gumming-in
Scraps with JUDSON’S GUMS, &o , &o.
z
stand for Zinc.
Zinc, Lead, Copper, and other Polfona are Re-
moved from water by JUDSON’S Perfect
Purity FILTERS, also all organic matters
eithor in solution or suspension. Bead
Special Pamphlet.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
I
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
la NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICfIS, so per cent, less than
Sydney prices.
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 9/6, 9/6, 12/6, 11/6, 21/-, 25/. 60/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality; The German-Anglo, in wood box, 31/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
(M
3
w
° I ro
ACCORD! ANS •*»/•, i#/g 12/6.15/.11/6,
HUbUnuiHllO, 21/>. *5/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6
Speciality; The miniature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-,
10/6. 15/-. 20/-, 25/-. 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality; Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS,
n 4©/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 180/-
to *lB.
Specialities; The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “ Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 13 10 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Speciality; The 8-key Cocoa D Conceit Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/-
-r
THE SYMPHONETTEI
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-,
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 Bs.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Nigger Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums. Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jn’slarftoiWllip
MUSIC I MUSIC I MUSIC 1
200,000 copies New and Popular Music, published
at 3/-, 4/-, and 6/-, sold at 9d. per copy.
£5 Worth of Music for £ll
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages.
ĥ
HE WANTED TOOLS.
FAT CAPITALIST: “UNEMPLOYED, ARE YOU”?
ATTENUATED VAGRANT: “ YES, I COULDN’T PERFORM ANY WORK IF I HAD IT TO
DO—I HAVE NO TOOLS.”
F. C. : " WHAT TOOLS DO YOU WANT ”?
A . V,: “A KNIFE AND FORK.”


BEWARE!
Unprincipled persons, Jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on tne fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of intelligence knows that Yil e
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
In these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissus of the Inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing I It is ‘your
money and your life ” with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be all it Is
represented by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, and is highly recommended by medical men.
Brandies and Whiskies are not at all as well
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
We were gazing in the beautiful windows
of Bray Bros.’ china and glass shops on Saturday
afternoon, when we saw reflected in a mirror a
man in charge of a constable. Turning suddenly
around, we noticed he made a dart across the road,
thinking, doubtless, to escape the company of such,
to him, undesirable personage. A chase of 20 yards
proved the limb of the law to be the better man,
and the prisoner had his liberty much curtailed on
being recaptured.*)
Marie Brizard J
Wolfe’s Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
EVERY LADY SHOULD READ THIS.
Summerfleld’s Jersey Suits, 3a. lid, 7s. 6d.
Summerfleld’s School Suits, 7s. 6d, Bs. lid.
Summer!!eld’s Sailor Suits, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
Summerfleld’s Worsted Suits, 10s. 6d. 13s. 6d.
Summerfield’s Little Ulsters, 4s. lid, 7s 6d.
Summerfleld’s Wee Overcoats, 6s. lid. 8s lid.
Summerfleld’s Trouser Suits, 18s. 6d, 21s.
Summertleld’s Youths’ Overcoats, 13j. 6d, 16>. 9d.
SUMMERFIELD and COMPANY, Merchant
TAILORS and Great JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237, PITT-BTRBET, SYDNEY. Country
residents promptly supplied with fashion plates, &c
To invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe’s Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil &Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.)
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &o.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate parsons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration.
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or any other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM, LONDON.
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile lis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. «
THE MALTESE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
ħ
m
4*#
s
h
ĥ
ħ
Verv
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
OICESTED WHEN ALL
OTHttKlNDSOFFOOD ARE
REJECTED.ATALLCHEMISTS IM g
lOfci '20 02BOTTLES
B
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUZONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
Inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail A gents - Elliot Bros.
E. Pbcsseb & Co., Sydney.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE MOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
jacket. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B. Prosser
md Co., Pltt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
[K)dge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist,! 11 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
XdlZa.e33. Cl-loss
.A.’bxsub.a.rxx’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully prc*
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 QE jEGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NE ■
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
{ BAJf JS, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY OUREIor Ner-
. i vous and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&<s. By its tonic sad soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system,
ftrloe. 4a. 6d., or 355. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MA RBHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Marhet-st., Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
~|~y OLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeobd st., London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford*
street, London, they are spurious.
WHA
w
CONVINCE
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon your mind this repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
ands are using it, 1
it is a medicine
even more than
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim lor it. My
i i:
friend if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
the machinery of your
body into working order.
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the window, and I got a
bottle After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her A world of good
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Or. Bell’s Bitters. ...
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
Sh ffi"Sf. Salt Rheum, Boil., Hmpto,
or other Diseases of the Blood. ,
It you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once. .
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
o ily known Specific for Kidney. and Umnavy
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURI! I LR,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chrome, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LlVER—the great organs of the body—
in healthy ml P oSSlble -
Note —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
bell’sTTtters
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
-o-
BUTOHER, FEHON & 00., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland.
'he only infallible remedy for
$
THERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and Imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloylng Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating, all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 135., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
If by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY &' CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON'S PAIN PAIN'S
CURES ALL PA*N. *
Hi® best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
J.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC J.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS- SCALDS, &c- and
;aken internally enres DIARRHtEA,
3RAMPS, OOSiICg and ail other intern® aches
vnd pains?
Price,
Sold Everywhere!
e a t MOULTON, SOLE PROfIXTOR.
MEX.BOXJjSiN'ii AND SIDNEY.
AINT
A NEW VIEW OE THE QUEEN.
“Alderman J. D. Young, in objecting to the expenditure of £.50 of Sydney cor-
poration funds in illuminating the Town-hall on the occasion of Mayor Young's
Jubilee dinner, spoke warmly about the expenditure of money which, he said, the
balliffs collected from the poor and starving. Her Majesty would not rest in her bed
if she knew how some of the money had to b elevied.”


DR. SCOTT’S GENUINE
' ELECTRIC BELTS
Have established a reputation all over the world, for strength,
combined with lightness, for healing with ease and safety.
All in search of health should wear Dr. Scott’s Genuine
Electric Belt for Ladles and Gentlemen, to promote the circula-
tion. to stimulate the organic action, to renew vital energy,
and assist digestion.
sP
m,
w&
$
trniv©i*sally approved by the leading physicians as the best,
safest, and most effectual remedy for spinal complaints,
incipient consumption, diarrhoea, pleurisy, tumors, asthma,
bronchitis, epilepsy, lumbago, debility, rheumatism, gout,
sciatica, loss of vigour, dropsy, paralysis, loss of voice,
hysteria, cutaneous diseases, nervousness,indigestion, palpi-
tation, constipation, &c.; and has cured some of the most
obstinate and distressing cases, after all other remedies so
called have failed. They are constructed on scientific prin-
ciples, imparting an exhilarating, health giving current to
the whole system. Professional men assert that there is
hardly a disease which electricity or magnetism may not
benefit or cure.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Belts, 15s ; post free, 18s.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets for ladies, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
15s ; postage, 5s extra.
From all Chemists and Storekeepers, or free by rail or
steamer to any port or railway station in N.S.W., or Queens-
land Is 6d extra.
Beware of fraudulent and worthless imitations made up to
trade upon our reputation. Send for illustrated circular to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.O. Box 221. 54 Margaret Streets Sydney-
DR. SCOTT’S GENUINE
ELECTRIC CORSETS
have established a deserved reputation beyond
that of all other Corsets for comfort, elegance,
durability, and excellence of material. In addition
to all these advantages, they possess more Electro-Mag-
netism and thorough healing and invigorating power than
any other Electric or Magnetic appliances in the world,
however high priced. Our prices are 6/6, 8/6, 10/6,
and 15/ ; nursing, 8/6 ; abdominal, 16/- 2/6 extra
for sizes above 30. From all Chemists and Store-
keepers, or free to any port or railway station in
h
New South Wales, or
Queensland 1/6 extra,
by mail to any address
5/- extra. All our Cor-
sets are beautifully
woven from latest
Paris models, are
double stitched and
have tipped stfeols and
lock clasps, combined
with our patent solid
back spinal steels,
through which the eye-
lets are riveted. For
weak backs, spinal,
kidney and liver trou-
bles, rheumatism, and
other weaknesses pe-
culiar to woman, our
Corsets have no equal.
A 'beautiful silvered compass with which to test
their electro-magnetic power accompanies each
Corset. Dr. Scott's Electric Hair Brushes for Headache
and Neuralgia B/-, 7/3, 9/5, 11/6,13/5. Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric Tooth Brush 2/5; Dr. Soott's Electric Flesh Brush 13/6;
Dr. Soott's Electric Insoles 2/5; Dr. Scott’s Electric Teeth-
ing Necklace 2/5; Dr. Soott's Electric Curlers 2/6,
All chemists and storekeepers, or post free Is. extra.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.O. Box 221. 51 Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Beware of fraudulent and worthless imitations designed to
trade upon our reputation, and send for illustrated circular.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Dibbs stated in the N.S.W. Assembly
last week that Sir Henry Parkes won his seat by
“ bribery and corruption.” This is rough on St.
Leonards.
Mr. Copeland, M.L.A. for East Sydney,
Ministerially states that “ the devil is not half bo
black as he is painted.” Wo are still at a less to
know which of his colleagues he is excusing.
Sir Patrick Jennings’s little joke. Mr.
Abigail: “I have good cause of oommatnt against
the Government.” Sir Patrick Jennings: “I
think the hon. member always has.” (Laughter).
Twenty-five per cent, of the Irish electors
are said to be unable to read or write. No wonder
that priests and parsons are paramount in Ireland.
The extension of facilities for secular education
would cure half Ireland's troubles, but it would
starve the clergy.
One of Mr. Burke’s recent speeches in the
N.S.W. Assembly was not reported in the dailies.
He said: “Mr. Speaker,—” then the members
lifted up their voices and “burked’’him. It was
noticed-, however, that the delivery of those words
was lb the best style of eloquence.
The newest Tory idea is, we read, the for-
mation of a juvenile branch of the Primrose
League. This band, which is to learn politics in
the nursery, is called the “Primroee Babies.”
Conservatism is reduced to robbing the cradle for
supporters of its theories, and it has really very
little now left to rob—except, perhaps, the grave.
Vanity Fair says that “the good sense of
the Jews is on the wane. Those mischievous
Israelites, the Rothschilds, are prominent among
the most zealous Radicals, and they do a great
deal of barm at every general election by the
support they contribute to the advocates of ran-
som and spoliation. . . . When one finds Dives
Voting for Barabbas one begins to think that in
these degenerate days a Jew is almost as big a
fool as a Christian.” This kind of thing is good
to read: straws show how the wind blows—Jews
are keen men, and generally take care to be on the
winning side.
A correspondent of an English Conserva-
tive paper raises the curious theory that the name
of the party is the real bar to its success. The
title “Conservative,” he says, is “ the bar sinister
on our escutcheon,” from which [it would appear
the party is illegitimate after all. He then sug-
gests that this time-honoured epithet should be
abolished and the term “National” substituted.
This is good enough in theory, but as the Parnell-
ites have a prior claim to the trade-mark in ques-
tion things might get mixed, and the Tory
escutcheon might be mistaken for a shillelagh.
Perhaps It would be better, on the whole, to take
it down altogether and put up a hatchment in its
stead.
“ Lord Tennyson has joined the Irish
Loyal and Patriotic Union. He took this step un-
solicited by the committee.” This interesting item
is from a London Liberal paper. Why should they
have “solicited ’ him? Is Baron Tennyson, the
hireling slaverer of royalty and wealtn, the apos-
tate from the cause of humanity, still esteemed so
highly that his aid should be solicited for a popular
movement ? His pensioned mind can hardly benow
considered to possess power to sway other minds
unbought by the patronage of Royalty and wages
of title. To take him as an exponent of popular
opinion is to regard the round towers of Ireland
as instances of the beauty of modern architecture,
or to regard a Royal Prince as the embodiment of
all the virtues.
It has cost Canada £825,8i7 to put down
the rebellion. It would have been cheaper to
have given the half-breeds their land In the first
place, as Gladstone proposes to do by Ireland.
In fact, the land they demanded was not worth
much much more than half the sum it cost to
prevent them getting it. Moreover, this is the
second war-bill which has been the same
account, and yet the just claims of the natives
must be granted in the end. At the present time
there are in Ireland 13,830 Infantry, 3710 cavalry,
1515 engineers and artillery, making a regular
army of 18,115 men. There are also 15,000 militia-
men, 13,000 constabulary, 5000 pensioners (or army
reserve men), ,’and 3500 coast-guards. It takes all
this lot to “ conciliate ” Ireland, and, after put-
ting down about a dozen patriotic insurrections at
enormous cost, Britain must either grant the
rights for whicn the Irish have fought for cen-
turies or face a dozen more periods of open dis-
affection, each worse than the last.
This is how the Melbourne correspondent
of the SM. Herald talks of the working men
down there:—“Their greed, their selflahnese, and
their consequent truculence are by thinking per-
sons looked upon with dismay, for It is the work-
ing men who constitute the bulk of the com-
munity, and it is their sons who represent the
dangerous classes of this colony.” This writer
should put himself under a little prudent restraint.
There were two “bosses” one time superintend-
ing a number of men at excavation work. As they
stood in the shade up aleft it pleased one of them
to deliver his orders in howls and accompany them
with expressions of disgust for the truculent dirty
fellows beneath. His partner said to him, “See
here, friend, it is well there are dirty fellows like
these, or you and I would be down therewith pick
and shovel instead of standing here with our hands
In our pockets.” This Melbourne man should be
glad that he finds himself in a place where “the
bulk of the community ” do not adopt his line of
life.
The papers relative to the suspension of J .
C. W. Crommelin from his billet of Superintending
Inspector under the N.S.W. Rabbit Act will form
an interesting item of light reading—at Woolloo-
mooloo. The chief trouble was about a letter
written by Mr. Rabbit-Inspector Richardson to
Mr. R.-I. Dwyer, to whicn Mr. Crommelin added
this postscript, “Dear Charley, whiskys mix a
man up so much that a sober man like your
humble servant has no chance. Put on the
youngsters and do if they don’t behave
themselves,” to which Mr. Richaid?on added the
brief endorsement “ youl” Thereupon all
three officers weie suspended, the first two for
writing unofficial language, printed in the Report
at full length, and the third for not having
brought the letter under notice. Crommelin was
subsequently offered a lower position, which he
refused to accept. The other two officers prob-
ably continue to adorn the Civil service. D wyer’s
offence was certainly not deserving of very severe
punishment. He would naturally be indisposed to
believe that the department were anxious to
peruse such very unofficial language.
Here is a significant portion of the message
about the colonial banquet in London cabled last
week to the Australian Press:—“The Duke of
Manchester ridiculed the resolutions passed at the
Melbourne Home Rule meeting as emanating
from Mr. J. G. Duffy, who was one of the signa-
tories of the Grattan address.” This Duke must
have grown since he was in Aus'raba. Out here
he was but a “guinea-pig ”: a cautious investor
who knew something about the ways of making
\ money, but did not give a hint ot his possession
, t deep political discrimination. He showed the
eannesa ot a millionaire—and he is by no
means a millionaire—the manners of a snob,
and had an affection for free special trains
that would have done credit to a member
ot Parliament. Yet now he broadly sneers
at the resolutions pasted by a large meet-
ing, because they emanated from a man
who has at least shown considerable ability.
And Graham Bjrry, for ail we have heard to the
contrary, sat by and heard these sneers at mo-
tions passed by a Melbourne meeting without dis-
senting from the Manchesterian dictum. This
shows how low Berry has sunk in his groping
after a title. The fierce Democrat who orated to
mark it-gardenera from the tall of a cabbage-cart
and led the Radical crusade, would net have dared
to permit such derision of the calmly-expressed
voice of independent voters; but the Berry of
to-day has sold his political soul to the devil of
Respectability, and so long as the wage—a title—is
paid him, the nature of the work he is called upon
to do matters nothing. His was but a time-serv-
ing Radicalism from beginning to cud.
THIS WICKED WORLD .
It is held as evidence that a man is drunk
when he orders a dinner of “ chork pops and tied
fraters.”....The NZ earthquake death-roll totals
97 Maoris and five Europeans. The quake has
opened a ten-mile fissure. This awful chasm must
be nearly as big as Keenan’s mouth Near
Tumut (N.S.W ), a family are living in a bark hut,
and dependent on charity, because the Govern-
ment took their land for railway extension
purposes and have not yet paid the compensation.
Sir Patrick, d’ye hear?—The Irish and Aus-
tralian World (Nanabri, N.S.W.), gives the fol-
lowing under the heading of “ Original Poetry ”:
“ Such rains as we of late have had, quite in the
shade have oast
All previous records of rain, and my word didn’t
it last;
It literally rained in torrents, no other phrase I
can use—
This is a fact, as you may see in last Friday’s
Evening News.”
The police, we are glad to hear, have a clue to the
perpetrator of the outrage. It is well there is a
law to deal with a writer who thus slaughters the
sacred muse and feloniously publishes the bleeding
scalp of his victim under the title of “ poetry.”
... A Kiama firm, who do a good deal of business
in the way of upholstering the dead, display in
their window two articles only—a portrait of her
Majesty and a coffin-lid £550 was placed on the
foundation-stone (laid by Card. Moran last week)
ofthenewß.C. Church at Campbelltown. How
easy it is to get money for sectarian purposes,
and how very difficult to extract it for genuine
charity —The Newcastle (N.S.W ) Call declares
that Mr. Gladstone’s policy is a perpetual “scuttle
and run.” A petition, signed by 13,000 people,
has been presented to the S.A. Assembly, asking
that hotels may be opened for two hours on Sun-
day evenings At Adelaide, a journalist received
six sentences of nine years each for half-a-dozen
forgeries. The unhappy man fancied he would be
in until the middle of the year 1940, until the
judge told him the sentences were concuirent
\
/ If
CREMATION !
One fifty-second portion of Mr. John Fergu-
son’s interest in the Mount Morgan mine has
been sold for £3OOO, and a second similar por-
tion was sold subsequently for £33501 And
yet there are many who hold bigger in-
terests in Mount Morgan than Mr. Ferguson I
The Cooktown Courier says that to expect a cap-
tain who has been appointed at a moment's notice
to understand all about a vessel like the Ly-ee-
Moon is “a mystery and a preposterous piece of
impertinence.”.... From a statement made by the
N.S.W. Treasurer, it would appear that most of
the popular patent medicines contain a terrific
percentage of alcohol—one of them is 66 per
cent proof-spirit. No wonder they are always
popular The body of Matthew Merriman,
68, who had been in gaol for vagrancy—which in
his case meant the offence of being destitute—was
found floating in Sydney harbour last week. Upon
a letter in his pocket these words were pencilled
in an uncertain hand:—“Done this Act for want
of Work and His money all gone. May God have
mercy on His Soul.' Amen.” Walgett (N.S.W.)
Hospital has had nine surgeons in five years.
During that time 43 patients have died, so the
medicos seem to have assisted 4 % each—a very fair
average At Yass, George Waters, for shooting
with Intent, was released upon hi* own reeognis
ances; while one Mullins, for receiving a stolen
horse, get 18 months. Moral: It comes cheaper to
try to kill a man than to borrow a horse in N S.W.
We are glad to see the Sydney B. News is get-
ting better. The other day we read in one of its
cables from N.Z “ the people of this district are
flying for their lives, in many instances naked.”
Further down we read, with Intense relief, “The
people are rushing off in their nightdresses. Once
upon a time the naked telegram would have been
last “An Australian statesman’s 1.0.U.’e,” we
read, “ are on view at the Indian and Colonial Exhi-
bition, and her Majesty expressed herself much
surprised at their peculiar beauty.” It is stated,
as a proof of the efficacy of prayer, that three
years ago a parson in the back blacks began to
offer up petitions for dry weather. They have
been strikingly answered A writer in the Syd-
ney t Freethinker, referring to the theological
controversy at Brisbane between Dr. York and
Mr.Long,says:—“ldo not quite understand Dr.
York’s statement that he has got a soul, and the
statement does not harmonise with some of his
previous remarks; but Long’s reply that he was
wanting In • upper ’ was, as a friend suggested, a
snobbish retort.” Delightful Jokes!
» » *
The rector of St. Peter’s, Cornhill, London,
receives £3300 a year. There is only one ratepayer
in the parish, and he is a Roman Catholic. English
papers call this “a curious anomaly.” "Infernal
robbery ” would sound ever so much better
From the prospectus of the Esoair-Hir Silver-lead
Mine, just put upon the London market:—“ It is a
mine of wealth. It is no problem in existence,
remember, It is a demonstrated fact. Taking the
past yield at £1,030.000, how many more millions
must now be waiting extraction? Millions are big
figures, we know, but Escalr Hlr is also in every
sense a big mine.” Truth brutally remar s;—
The Eicair-Hir is really an exhausted Welsh lead
mine, which has been under water for a century
and a half or thereabouts.” A company has
been formed to supply London with 3000 very
“swagger ” hansoms. The fare is to be sixpence
a mile, and as the drivers are to be salaried and to
receive a commission on their earnings, there need
be no more wrangling with them. “ Every driver
will wear a livery, carry a nosegay, and touch his
hat; nor will he be allowed to bite the coin ten-
dered to him, on pain of losing his situation.”—
English barristers say they will not allow the Rev.
Dyson, acquitted on a charge of poisoning Mr.
Bartlett, to carry out his Intention of entering the
legal profession....An English beggar, recently
arrested, carried a cash-book which showed total
receipts of £l6 Bs. 8 1. for 10 weeks’ “ practice of
his profession.” Nothing wonderful in this.
Clerical beggars make 10 times more The latest
about Sara Bernhardt, who is now playing in Lon-
don, is that she has developed an engaging plump-
ness and some lovely dresses—The late Earls
Shaftesbury and Cairns were the personification
of piety. To those who drop asleep and forget
how names pass on, It must have been somewhat
startling to read within a fortnight that the Earl
of Shaftesbury bad sbot himself in a cab, and that
two gentlemen had been taken into custody while
endeavouring to get to a private box in a
music-hall to see their friend Earl Cairns.. .A Paris
paper says that a young woman bearing a strong
resemblance to the ex-Empresa Eugenie is about
to commence a suit against the Empress, claiming
that she is her daughter The subscription
among the Clan Gordon for a statue to *• Chinese”
Gordon has realised under £5OO A booh called
‘‘Letters to Dead Authors” has just been pub-
lished. It probably includes requests from the
Sydney papers to Hugh Conway lor more of his
post-mortem stories ...The Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher has made £150,000 in the last 40 years. It
is calculated he has only saved three souls in that
time, so that they cost £50,000 a piece, not reckon-
ing the interest, and even at that one soul is re-
garded as doubtful and the other two were not
worth saving. ...The Prince of Wales gets £lOO,OOO
a year from the Duchy of Cornwall and pays away
£05,000 for the cost of collecting. It is not such a
gaudy show after all to be a Cornish duke A
French soldier, who wanted to see what eternity
was like before it got too crowded, loaded a can-
non with 123 bullets, planted himself in front, and
fired. He is now dead A London paper says:—
“ The fact is, priestly obscurantism has been much
on the increase in Ireland since 1848; witness the
despicable accounts of working Madonnas, and so
forth, given so often in Irish papers, with the tes-
timony of priests added.” We read that “ Prince
Albert Victor of Wales wears spurs a foot long.”
The trouble is that all his relatives do the same
thing while financially astride of the British tax-
payer— Huxley has again declined a baronetcy.
....The Bavarian guards protested strongly against
the deposition of King Ludwig. They had tried
being commanded by a madman for 33 years and
liked it—“ The Royal History of Burmah ” gives
an account of the reigns of 587,000 sovereigns, thus
proving the country was only annexed in time
The Du tee of Edinburgh is offered £lOO 000 for the
sale of his inheritance to the duchy of Saxe-Coburg-
Gotha Of course he wants more. Yet we could
buy 10 better men than Edinburgh—body, bones,
and all, for this sum, and get 10 per cent, discount
for cash.... “A man never loses anything by
politeness.” The majority of men do their level
best not to, anyway....Tne President of Guate-
mala has Issued a decree for the expulsion of
Catholic priests from that country, r.. “ Give us, O
give us a man who sings at his work,” says Carlyle.
Oh, yes, give him to us; deliver him into our hands.
He occupies the next office and we can’t get at him.
TESTED BY
DR. COLLETT, M.A., F.R.A.S.
From tho Birmingham Chronicle.
The distinguished journalist, George Augustus
Sala, in a letter from Australia, published in the
London Daily Telegraph, alludes to the fact that
the Royal Mail Steamship (which carried him from
San Francisco to Sydney), had amongst its cargo
several tons of St. Jacob’s Oil. As this medicinal
Oil has also recently been largely imported into
Great Britain, we were curious with regard to its
efficacy.
We desired Dr. Collett, M.A, F.RA.S., of
Leicester, to test its utility, and to our surprise he
has proved it to be effectual in the absolute cure
of rheumatism, neuralgia, rheumatic gout, and
other complaints, and states that it is the most
speedy and sure remedy that has eome under his
notice; and if it were adopted by the general
Eubiic it would prove the greatest soUrtle of
applness and comfort to many afflicted hordes.
So satisfied was he with its efficacy that he at once
drew the attention of his brother, the Kev. J. 0.
Collett, of the Yorkshire Nonconformist College,
Leeds, to the same: and he, knowing many needed
such a remedy, at once recommended the same,
and to his satisfaction found it answered in each
case to which it was applied, and it has become the
remedy adopted by the College authorities for
rheumatism, as well as for sprains, bruizes, &o,
that may be received in the cricket and football
fields and other places. Not only so, but Mr.
George Bellhouse, of the Birmingham Fire Brigade
certifies that the members of the Fire Brigade
have received great benefit from the use of St.
Jacob’s Oil, in cases of severe pains In the back
and knees: he also states that tender feet and
other painful ailments have been immediately
cured by its adoption. Not only does he say it is
good for the members of the Brigade, but for
their families, who praise the oil very highly for
neuralgia and kindred complaints, a few applica-
tions only being necessary to effect entire cures.
Th® reason we take such interest Is that we
noticed in the London Sunday Times and in variou
medical journals, articles with reference to this
remedy; and we investigated the case of a former
employee of Messrs. Davey and Moore, who are
celebrated as bottle and stoneware manufacturers.
This person, after trying various physicians, and
many medicines (some of which were supplied from
8t. Mary’s Hospital) without effect, and being pro-
nounced by the chief medical authorities incurable,
and having suffered over six years, was admitted
to the Buxton Hospital, where, after six weeks’
medical treatment, which included the use of
mineral waters and baths, he obtained no relief
whatever. After trying all the remedial measures
advised by friends and others, he could only move
about on sticks and crutches, and experienced in-
tense pain. By this time his joints had become
greatly swollen, the sensation being as though
some sharp instrument was passing through him.
The physicians who attended him stated that he
would be an invalid as long as he lived. A casual
acquaintance in the Infirmary informed him of the
remedy called St. Jacob’s Oil, which he applied,
and to his astonishment he found it to effect a
thorough cure. This case has also been person-
ally verified by the writer of this article, who has
not the least interest in the promotion of St.
Jacob’s Oil.
It is solely for the benefit of the public that we
write the foregoing, and as many people need a
remedy for the cure of their ailments, either con-
tracted or hereditary, it is with confidence and
sincere pleasure that we recommend this astonish-
ing curative agent.
