

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
9
K.ET
9 ■*-■ * 9
av e all the pleasure in the world in wishing their friends and patrons in Town and Country,
their supporters in Sydney and its Suburbs, and everyone everywhere, everything that
conduces to and goes to make
ANTHONY HOHDEHN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
T33Z33 OIjTXj"Z* TJ’INri’VBISS-A-X-i PEOVIDEBS
In these latitudes. Tho Most Popular Drapers in Australia*
Many a trade, hundreds of industries, and many a calling are invoked to keep
011 the move, for where the Coach is Big the road must needs be Wide. Our system ol business is well known, We leave
part of the Manufacturing World unvisited; we buy all goods on the very best terms, and our selling prices are
IjOWEST IN TBllj
OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
f
nlw Eipm Havmirket nh,
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION*
H


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DFVIMG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
if* Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, BlacksmithiDg.
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
* . PEEVENTERS, &c.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
MM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies,
KENT STREET (near King-street), SYDNEY
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in X, and lib. tins.
SWALLOW & DERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN Gold Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R, WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise.
■ •)
I'V.
economical
Cocoa
/* r- ‘ Genuine
Economical
Makers to the Queen
Bray <s& Liolitner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic outfits, In great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
OOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
§
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
=~z
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
STOCK IN THE COLONIES
W
e.
<3
(ZJ
■OST
w
CO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilsons Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and ineomuariblr
t/> with coffee or cheese.
TUPNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydni
NOTICE.
TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
JN FUTURE, our ESTABLISHMENT will be CLOSED at 2 p.m. on
SATURDAYS, INSTEAD of 10 p.m., as heretofore, in order to GIVE
OUR EMPLOYEES THE BENEFIT of the
Saturday Half-Holiday
Thanking our customers for past favours, and trusting that they will suffer
no inconvenience by making their purchases previous to 2 p.m. on SATURDAYS.
We remain.
Ladles and Gentlemen,
Your Obedient Servants,
Hordern Brothers,
174, 176, 209 and 211 PITT STREET.
lUl.'l'iuW
YA
%
$
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEABE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNF /&
.
—AND—
STSTEM.
theESiocUColUSeX mars,ot aL '° tUre UP ° n LIT 6 deUT6red b6tore
DR. J. HAYDOCK,
2.
Ha t)een^ no i wa M t^ e Preat blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation pVniti
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and nasa mft^f
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation The new
system ” 0 purposes * viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and Assisting in the clll growth of “he
l>r. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is verv nnmni» T t
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating grndnnlfvgLil.n. constantly
app -is satisfied and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important or Jan nf 6 ?Si B S B H OO S a 8 the
ten i the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation enfne f !w« b «Pr 3 v,f beCol i
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of 886 enßue * 1 notG e, £bt marked
The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue
Constipation, with an occasional attaok of diarrhoea.
Headache in front of head.
eP evOTyth?ng far melancholy > with lassitude and a disposition to leave
great'importance of T 8 the
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT the immediately pro-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properlv ‘s the rp»£ h m n H \ % y e *T
Dr. Haydock’s Mew Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
Will l Soeptfc Ktanm ’ HWdOCk ' S N6W llv “ P 1"“ * re * «»">• One PHI
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, 'Weakness. General Lassitude Wont n t a .
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be foind an AppGtU °’ and
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always bo guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
for sale bt all Druggists.
Every Pill is Suyar Coated. If your druggist does not keeD them we win moil tv,-™ „
drets on receipt of 26 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUY AT ONCE™ DO NOT DELA “ f t 0 any ad "
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe thattbn oi<rnot„»« trr t, ,
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen package!. Purchase none without this^ 110 8
As Dr. Haydoek’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 213 kinds now in the „
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address. 6 marke ** an F soe P*
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
Alex. Borthwick. ri
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. ” SaSSI
2SI G-eorgre-st., S3rd.ri.e37-.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
mr- LtmoHnnw and retreshmknt rooms tor ladtws and gentlemen.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOT I
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY
T
!fhe
r
k J.


BULLETIN
Val 3 —Ho. 139 -Hi w Soriai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 9. 1886.
Zffloc-CNL
A New Departure.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 9, 1880.
“It is not generally known,” mildly re-
marks a Sydney journal, ‘‘that the British
Government not long si ace sent instructions
to the Governor of New South Wales not to
sanction the appointment of more than
eight new members to the Legislative
Counoil at a time.” The statement, if true,
deserves to be well known, for, besides put-
ting in an entirely new light the rancorous
bawls of those noi3y patriots who lately
asserted that Mr. D abbey's foreign policy
Changed the colony from a province into a
nation* it gives a flat denial to the popular
belief that we are a self-governing commu-
nity, We submit that the British authori-
ties have no more right to limit to a batch
of either eight or eighty the number of
inoffensive old gentlemen whom it might
please the colonial Executive to provide
with easy chairs in which to enjoy a well-
earned nap over the droll illusion that the
World would miss them if they never awoke,
than they have to oblige colonists to con-
tribute towards Imperial expenditure, or
follow the mother country’s fiscal policy.
Nor do we stop there. It is our contention
that to the colonists alone belongs the right
of deciding how they will be governed—by
bne or any number of Houses, and whether
those Houses should be modelled on the
hereditary, the nominee, or the elective
principle. There is no limit to the number
of peers a British Executive cau recommend
for creation in order to Secure the safety of
one of its measure?. If every member of the
House of Lords had been opposed to the Re-
form Bill of 1832 the Government were pre-
pared to render iheir opposition futile. The
Sovereign might have objected, but, so
Short was the distance in that memorable
year between agitation and civil war, that
he would have done so at the risk of his
head. Yet we are now told that the ex-
treme method to which the English Cabinet
Can resort in order to bring an obdurate
hereditary House to its senses cannot be
applied by a colonial one to teach a frac-
tious Chamber that the will of the people is
the supreme law.
* * *
Our views regarding the bicameral sys-
tem of government are well known. We
consider that system cumbrous and need-
less—a monument of folly rather than of
wisdom. Whether an Upper Chamber is
hereditary, nominee, or elective—a com-
bination of any two or of all three—the
same unanswerable objections to it exist. It
is either unnecessary or harmful—superero-
gatory when it falls in with popular desires,
baneful when it thwarts them. Curiously
enough, the whole history of the British
Heuse of Lords, a history which many sup.
peso to tell in favour of the two Chamber
system, is the most infrangible evidence
against it. If ever an institution was con-
demned by its genesis and fruits, that insti'-
hntten is the seoond estate in the British
•enstitution. To begin with, it had its
•rigin in the meanest motives. Well
might Fjetbbman say“ As far, at
least, as our race is concerned, freedom
is everywhere older than bondage. It is
liberty that is ancient, tyranny that is
modern ” In Saxon times a second House
was unknown. The Witenagemot, or Grand
National Council, consisted of but one
Chamber. Indeed, it was not until nearly
*00 years after the Norman conquest that
the division of Parliament into two Houses
began. And lest this departure from con-
stitutional usage should uot be sufficient,
the lawyers, to cap the absurdity, intro-
dueed the hereditary principle which Ins
rivalled religion in retarding human pro-
gress, and which, even to-day, when its race
is almost run, still gibbers its impotent
opposition to the nation’s will. Always on
the side of wealth and power, the lawyers
laid down the doctrine that, once a man
was summoned by the Crown to take his
place in the second Chamber, his descend-
ants, -whether wise or foolish, virtuous or
infamous, were entitled to make laws for
their countrymen. For 500 years, omitting
the short period from 1649 to 1658, when the
peers were ignominiously squelched by the
great soldier who told one of them that
“ England will never be well till your Grace
is called plain Mr. Montagu,” this insensate
system has had full swing, until to-day we
find a Duke of Portland gravely stating
JAMES BONWICK, FRGS —(Soe page 18.)
that the British peerage is a divine institu-
tion, with which it would be impious to
meddle.
® a «
During the five centuries in which Britain
hss enjoyed the privilege of a second Cham-
ber, there is scarcely a humiliating episode
in her eventful history which is not directly
due to the influence of the House of Lords.
It may be said that this is an argument
rather against the principle of heredity than
against the bicameral method—that, in con-
demnation of the latter, the obvious absur-
dity of the hereditary plan cannot in fair-
ness be oalled as a witness, and that, by
means of a nominee or of an elective Council
the advantages of the system are preserved
while the abuses ar© lopped off. But our
contention is that a second House, no i
matter how constituted, is a blunder. A
nominee may be less absurd than an heredi-
tary one—an elective least preposterous of
all. But, howsoever constituted, it per-
forms work which is redundant in the
majority of cases, and baneful in the bal-
ance. Let us eome nearer home and examine
its working. The Upper House is elective
in Victoria—nominated in New South Wales.
Some time ago members were sent to the
Victorian Council for ten years by a very
restricted suffrage. They were mostly
elderly men, many of whom, having devoted
the best of their lives to amassing money by
questionable means, were anxious to graft
an old age of respectability on a manhood
of trickery. To men swayed By such an
ambition Conservatism and religion offer
peculiar attractions. No persons have
a higher appreciation of law and order-
few a firmer grasp of the evidences
of design in Kature than the retired
saloon keeper, whom, in days gone by,
an ungenerous public suspected of mak-
ing his rum palatable by means of tobacco-
juioe, or a successful dairyman whose cows
were in the habit of yielding milk in which
alaotome'er would disappear. The result
was that, when a great question demanded
solution, the vast majority of the whole
people’s representatives were found on one
side while the grizzled delegates of a small
section were ranged on the other. Things
were brought to such a pass that atone
time the solution seemed to lie in the direc-
tion of broken heads and flaming houses.
An appeal had to be made to London and,
at last, when business was almost at a stand-
still and ugly threats freely bruited, a
compromise was effected. The term of ser-
vice was reduced from ten to six years and
the franchise considerably lowered. This,
as might have been foreseen, has had the
effect of strengthening rather than weaken-
ing the Council’s will and power to obstruot.
The odd speotacle of the representatives of
the whole people being flouted by those of
a section is still presented to us. The other
day a Bill to make provision for additional
members in places where the increase of
population justified it was passed by an
overwhelming majority of the Lower
House only to be superciliously rejeoted by
the Upper. Some Conservative journals
praise the Senators for their action. In
other words, they commend the delegates
of a portion of the population for setting at
defiance the representatives of all. It
may be said that an appeal can be made
to the country, when the Councillors will
capitulate should they find the popular
voice against them, but they need not
even then abandon their position. Again,
if direct appeals are to be made to the
people whenever it is found neoessary to re-
peal old laws or enact new, what offices will
be left for members to fulfil ? It was for
the purpose of avoiding such frequent re-
sorts, with their inevitable vexatiousnees,
that representative government was in.
stituted.
* • »
It is time to return to New South Wales.
With us the nominee principle is in vogue*
This method is a little less absurd than the
hereditary one, although many profess to
see no difference between them. Up to the
present, the New South Wales Council has
had but little power, and, to do it justice, its
usefulness has hitherto been in direct
ratio with its impotence. Still, it
should be remembered that its complai-
sance was largely due to the knowledge
that, possessing the power to infuse fresh
blood, the reigning Premier possessed a
method of persuasion which seldom failed
to convince. If, then, there is any truth in
the report that no more than eight mem-
bers can be created senators at one time,
the Legislative Council of New South Wales'
becomes tbe legatee of a power such as the
British House of Lords never possessed. It
may be that by nominating, when necessary,
the prescribed number on Monday morning,
and continuing the nominations daily till
the requisite majority was secured, the dif-
ficulty might benegotiat ed. It is more than
probable, however, that not only is a limit
put to the number that can be raised at one
time to the H-less atmosphere of the Upper
Chamber, but a certain period must also
elapse before a fresh batch of dotards ean
be called on to save the country. This
should be seen to at once. It is bad enough
to be saddled with a second House at all.
worse to have that legislative wen estab-
lished on a principle that allows to beeome
law-makers men who, by any public meet-
ing, would be received with jeers punctu-
ated by garbage; worst of all to have the
rod which keeps these people in subjection
forced from our hands. Why the British
Government should interfere at all in
a question so purely looal is not quite
clear. It should be a matter of in-
difference to them whether the people
of New South Wales decided to be
governed by one House or by half a-
dozen—whether they adopted Socialism of
the Htnman type or Autooraey of the
Russian pattern, with the knout thrown in
to give it a flavour. The only thing that
appears obvious is the necessity for reso-
lutely opposing this humiliating decree
The Colonial Office “Rogers,” against
whose meddling in Victorian affairs Mr.
Higinbotham thundered some years ago"
seems to be still alive and vigorous. Any
prominent New South Wales statesman who


delicately conveys to that bumptious
official that the people of this colony are
quite able to decide on the form of govern-
ment best adapted for them will deserve
well of his adopted country.
An Imaginary Address.
At the recent prize distribution the New South
Wales troops mustered 2098 strong, and were com-
plimented by Lord Carington on their “soldierly
appearance.” Oh, certainly 1 They look some-
what like real soldiers. We wonder, however, if
not one of the 2098 has a sense of satire. Fancy old
Wright, the carrier (he’s a major), or old Goodlet,
the sawmills man (he’s a colonel), or old Tommy
Moser, the journalist (he's a captain), being
complimented on their “ soldierly appearance,’’
and never twigging where the laugh comes ini
Old proverb: appearances are deceitful. Perhaps
some day, when old Gussy Lcftus and Plain BUI
Dailey are forgotten, and Lord Carington has got
leg-weary with jogging out compliments, some
man will have originality and force of char-
acter enough to address our train-bands some-
what in this fashion:—“My good fellows,—
To me, who have seen the crack and ordinary re-
giments of regular armies ia countries where
military training is a science, your appearance in
uniform strikes as slouching and unlidy, and your
execution of simple movements as laborious a d
imperfect almost to a point of ridicule. But
I don’t impute that to you es a fault. You are
amateurs, and it is a matter of course that pro-
fessionals in any business surpass amateurs in
expertness; and, albeit you ax-e not well set-up
from a drill-master's point of view, and hence
make a poor show as a military rpectaole, the
real business of soldiering is executed just as effec-
tually by stooping, round-shouldered men, as by
men who strut as though they had swallowed
their ramrods. Company evolutions, how-
ever, which I have just seen you attempt,
and which you only mansge to go through
by concentrating your attention on your
motions, are the foundation upon which tho
accuracy and certainty of the most comprehensive
manoeuvres and most critical and decisive charges
or repulses depend. These movements a body of
regular troops perform hlmost by instinct. That
is because these things are made the sole business
of their lives daily for successive years.
* * *
“ You want a lot more practice before you can
hope even to approach the readiness and efficiency
of trained troops in this respect. Consider, my good
fellows, if it takes all you know, and a lot more
than most of your officers know, to perform a
simple change of formation while in motion at a
review like this, what sort of a chance would you
have of executing a similar movement under fire
and in the smoke, bustle, and confusion of an
engagement? The most perfectly exercised
soldiers in the world are liable to lose their forma-
tion in coming to action. That they do not often
get mixed up is due exclusively to the
perpetual practice has created in them a sort of
Beeond nature, very closely resembling the instinct
of animals. To borrow a simile from the familiar
scenes of your own bush life, on a well managed
eattle run, at the crack of the stockman s whip the
beasts run to their campß. They have, however,
to be rounded up and lun in a hundred times be-
fore this artificial instinct has supplanted the im-
pulse of Bature—to bolt into the scrubs, the
swamps, or the ranges. So with soldiers, the
sound of the bugle to the natural ear presages
danger and death, and prompts flight and disper-
sion. But the artiflfla’ly acquired instinct of the
perpetually drilled soldier, coupled with the
teprib de corps which mak»s a regiment their
world to all who belong to it, and flinching the
direst misfortune and disgrace which could befal a
nan, combats the natural i npu so and prevai s
over it. The soldier, iastead of intuitively
thinking of safety, instinc iveiy turmto the right
or the left, quickens or slackens his pace, takrs
ground in this direction or that, and seeks the cos-
tact of the next file’s shoulder, according to the
familiar import of the notes which fall upon his
ear * ,
“ My friends, it has been tho custom for feeble
and senseless persons in high position to tell you
that they have seen the Russian, the German, the
French, or the British crack troops in review, and
that they never—no, never—saw anything to sur-
pass the soldierly appearance you present, and the
excellence of your evolutions. In so saying,
they wronged your principles and insulted
your intelligence. They assumed that you are
assembled in arms and have assumed the pano.
ply of war in order that you might have j
your vanity flattered by exaggerated and fulsome J
laudation. They assumed that you are so devoid '
of sense and intelligence that you would gulp
down without remark preposterous comparisons
and ridiculous preferences. For my part, I love
this country too well—l am too sensible of the
duty I owe to it and to you—l respect your spirit
and your motives for being here to-day with arms
In your hands, too deeply to betray your gal-
lantry by Delilah-like caresses. Your very pre-
sence here shows that you have the souls of true
and brave men. Shall I then, like others before
me, treat you like children and fools ? Not I,
though I were to die for it. Bear with mo a
moment while I digress. Die for it? There
Is for me no question of life and death.
The false, delusive, treacherous flatterers who
have heretofore addressed you, did notbefoolyou
to save their lives. Thoy were meaner oowards and
traitors than that. They feared to be men, and
to treat you as the men you are, because they
dreaded the loss of—not their lives-but their popu-
larity! Gods! how my gorge rises, as I reflect
upon the depth of their debasement I How my
heart swells when I think of the cruel wrong done
to you. Listen! the while I trumpet truth in your
ears. You are paltry troops, despite your spirit.
Against regularly disciplined men, of equal num-
bers, you would have no chance whatever of suc-
cessful combat. You are half-drilled, nay, not
half-drilled, your cadres lack cohesion; you havelno
experience whatever in comprehensive manoeu-
vres. You have tho average courage of the modern
civilißed man. Citizens by occupation, you are
affected by all the disabilities which have from
the earliest recorded times affected burgher
f9ldiers. You are scarcely even what tho histo-
rians of the recent past, modern war-correspon-
dents, refer to with Invariably slighting and depre-
ciatory emphasis as a raw, half-drilled militia. In
short, you iack more drill, more drill, more drill.
You lack more musketry practice. You lack more
exercise. You are plethoric of body and short of
wind. That is the consequence of your avocations.
I warn you, reckon not yourselves experts in the
soldiers’trade; count not upon this achievement
of wheeling and marching which you h&ve ex-
hibited to day, as qualifying you to confront on
equal terms men to whom such occupations are*
instead of the recreation of spare hours and the
enjoyments of a gala day, the business of their
lives.
* * *
“ But, mistake me not. Conceive not for a
moment that I would discourage your enthusiasm
or chill your martial ardour. I aim at the con-
trary result. I wish to give you impressions
which will in the hour of battle strengthen your
hearts and uphold your resolution. If you, aecua"
toraed to regard yourselves as perfect troops, find
yourselves, when confronted by an enemy, out-
matched and overborne by a superiority which
you cannot comprehend, your whole natures will
collapse, confusion will seize upon your mind?, and
wild, unreasoning consternation demoralize you
beyond hope of retrieval. But if you, thus con-
fronted and overmatched in tactical operations,
have been long prepared, as I would prepare you,
to find it so; If you perfeotiy comprehend the
significance and limits of the inferiority which
oppresses you, the element of surprise will then
be absent, and neither confusion nor unreasoning
panic will oppress your spirit. You will, every
man a general over himself, have your reserves in
readiness—those reserves which will serve to re-
store the ha'ance of the combat, and, perchance,
to give to you tho superiority. Citizen sol-
diers,— Though your bodies be poorly drilled,
never forget that your souls are in arms.
When you fight, it will be in a sacred cause—
the sacred cause of liberty, home, and self-
defence—a cause which has, ere now, inspired
peasants to successfully oppose with unprotected
limbs the assaults of mail-clad knights, a course
which, within your oryn familiar knowledge, has
made heroes of naked Arabs. A patriot is doubly a
soldier. He opposes to an invader not merely a
body more or less trained, but a ‘soul ia arms
and eager for the fray.’ Be prepared, therefore,
to wrest victory from adverse chances by the
superiority of your resolution. When you go
into action, go not forth as vain fribbles in scarlet
frippery, inflated with the windy flatteiies of false
friends, but go forth as determined men,
conscious that only by a magnificent determina-
tion to excel mercenaries ia grandeur of soul and
self-sacrifice, can you hope to countervail their
inevitable superiority in the arts of warfare.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bad Deduction.
The Sydney Echo transfers to its pages an
original deduction manufactured by the London
Town Talker, of the Melbourne Argus, on the
subject of the imprisonment of Mr. Stead. Had
Mr. James Payn, who is supposed to be the
artificer of the deductions, deduced logically in
this matter, he would hardly have got a special
heading, or been quoted in full ty the Sydney
satellite. “As to the Stead case,” he begins, “ I
have always kept my pen aloof from it.” When
Parson Evans heard a protestation of this sort in
the old Elizabethan days he used to exclaim,
“The tefil and his tam, what phrase is
tbij? Verily, it is affectations!” But Town
Talker goes on:—“One deduction, however,
which has, I think, escaped the general
attention, I will venture to draw, because
it is so comforting. The conjuror, who
has been stirring all this tilth so persistently with
his mighty wand, has always insisted upon the ease
and impunity with which certain odious vices were
committed. As he found—and no wonder—the
public slow to believe this, he said to himself, ‘ I
will commit these crimes (to all appearance, at
least) myself, and prove my case.’ He|accordingly
set to work with plenty of money, three assis-
tants, and the aid of a great religious body
(which your mere man about town can
hardly command), and the result is that
they all four find themselves in a crimi-
nal dock. One has heard of a man convict-
ing himself out of his own mouth, but the feat of
throwing a lie into one’s own teeth was, probably,
never before so completely accomplished.” The
deduction is that a fashionable man wanting to
abduct a child in London, would, although he de-
voted to the enterprise plenty of money, the skill
of three assistants, and the machinery of a great
and sympathetic organisation, find himself in the
end in the criminal dock. The deduction is a
flagrant misdirection of the teachings of the
Stead case, and is a proof in our own time of the
clown’s remark to Viola: “A sentence is but a
cheveril glove to a good wit—how quickly
the wrong side may be turned outward.” Mr.
Stead was prosecuted, not because he broke the
law, but because he published to the world that he
had broken the law. It was a fact that children
had been abducted. It is no doubt a fact that they
are still being abducted. Ihe odd cases that crop
up in the police courts from time to time indicate
by their surroundings that success is within the
reach of a moderately crafty man without either
assistants or organisations. It is merely an over-
sight that leads the man to court. Had Mr.
Stead wanted to abduct, as others abduoted,
the land was before him and the augurs of
Furity were blind. But cur. Stead waniei
to put an end to abduction, and every
scoundrel rose to curse and every prude to claw.
The law was a piece of mere senseless mechanism.
It was ready to tear anybody put into its feeders.
The scoundrels and prudes joined forces to drive
Mr. Stead against the teeth, and when the Apostle
of new hope for young children was torn, they
went their ways, the prudes to pray and the
scoundrels to prey. Mr. Payn should have seen
that the true deduction from the Stead case is
that abduction, if the abductor announces to the
world that he his abducted, and if particu-
larly he he a man whose word carries credence
and whose object is to put down a blasting traffic,
will ha followed by legal penalties, But there is
nothing in the Stead case to show that abduction,
as carried on with the tingle purpose of immo-
rality in view, will result in legal trouble, if only
the merest caution be observed by the abductor.
That is the logical deduction. The little Echo lost
its head in the company it got into, and should
, cry out with Spender, “ If ever I get drunk again
it will be with those who have the fear of God in
their hearts, and not with villains ” who cannot
keep their feet among syllogisms.
*
Law's Vagaries.
The description of evidence which in Sydney suf-
fices to deprive a man of liberty and blast his
character was well illustrated by a case that oc-
curred at Newtown the other day. It was one of
those cases of unseemly conduct with which magi-
stiates in all countries are, unfortunately, so
familiar. It is extraordinary why men, especially
elderly ones, should behave so, but there is no
blinking the fact that they sometimes do—particu-
larly when intoxicated. But to the Newtown
affair. A man and a woman—old acquaintances
seemingly—had a quarrel. The woman threw
stones at the man, and subsequently bad
him arrested for indecency. There was no
corroborative evidence. The offence appeared
improbable on the face of it. The sen-
tence was two months’ imprisonment, with
hard labour. By securing the attendance of
another magistrate a flogging might also have
been ordered, es this is one of the crimes which
New South Wales statesmen—true to the tradi-
tions of convictism—endeavour to suppress by
torture, much as the London alderman deter-
mined to put down suicide with the lash. Had
the prisoner been first in laying an accusation
against the prosecutrix—had he charged her
with anything, assault, had language, or inde-
cency—he should, on the same principle, have
secured a conviction against her and saved him-
self. This shows the prudence of always securing
a good hold of Time's forelock. But it is only in
New South Wales that a man’s liberty and life—we
have seen a corpse at the triangles before now
long ere the regulation number of stripes was
completed—are at the disposal of any vixen who
owes him a grudge, or of any trull to whom per-
jury comes as natural as prostitution. Itiswel 1
known what some women will do to revenge
themselves for a real or fancied slight or injury.
Indeed, iu taking female evidence, it would not be
ami33 if all magistrates had before them, printed
in large characters, Byron's (himself no mean
judge of the sex) well-known line:—
“ Sweet is revenge—especially to women.”
Had the prisoner in the present case been allowed
to take an oath, he would, no doubt, have had no
hesitation in swearing that the feminine evidence
was false. Surely, under the circumstances, his
word or his oath was as good as hers, unless, in-
deed, Mr. Meares, the presiding magistrate, pre-
fers female to male testimony. He must be a new
description of man who, when pelted with stones,
retaliates by an act of obscenity. He would surely
be much more likely to send the lady sprawling
with a well-directed blow. It is too bad to think
that the man who takes a pleasure in wandering
by the sea shore, or walking in lonely places, does
so at the risk of being imprisoned or scourged.
Suppose that, instead of the possibly inno-
cent person, who is now enjoying a regimen of
oatmeal and stone-breskingin Darlinghurst.it was
Bishop Barry or Cardinal Moran who was
accused, would Mr. Meares convict on such evi.
deuce? We wonder. He would be more likely to
commit the witness for perjury. The fact is New
S:uth Wales is a country whose people labour
under the stupid illusion that they belong to a
Democracy where all men are equal before the
law. It is the thought of this illusion running
through our heads that sometimes wakes us in the
middle of the night to laugh.
The Sight to a Dissolution.
The most absurd idea we have heard for some
time past is that if Sir John Robertson is de-
feated when he mo its Parliament, he will be “ en-
titled to a dissolution.” We have touched on the
subject before, but as several of the Sydney
journals continue to repeat the ridiculous asser-
tion, wo return to the subject. The position turns
upon the question of the use of a dissolution; if
it is granted for the benefit of the defeated leader,
: Sir John is certainly “entitled” to it, hut if it is
granted only for the advantage of the people, and
only when the House has proved its incapacity io
sustain a Government, then it would be a
piece of effrontery for John to ask it, and
a huge blunder for Carington to grant it. Cen-
turies ago, when England was run in the interests
of the king and his personal friends, he was accus-
tomed to dismiss a Parliament as soon as its mem-
bers asserted the incompetency or villainy of his
advisers. The king governed then, as well as
reigned. Now the monarch is a mere shadow, and
(like Sir John Robertson) a political mummy
from which all real power has long since departed-
Parliament now legislates for the benefit, pro-
fessedly, of the whole people. Therefore, a pre-
mature dissolution can only be asked for when it
is necessary in the interests of the makers of Par-
liament. But the supporters of this alleged
right say that there are precedents for such
a course, and that these must be followed.
The argument is worthy of the cause. Eng-
lish and colonial history furnish precedents
of eyery political crime and blunder that can
possibly be conceived. In New South Wales we
j have the Soudan farce as a precedent, but it is
one that will never justify another Dalbey in the
commission of a similar vainglorious blunder.
Lord Augustus Lofxus, too, by signing the death-
warrant of a man concerning whose legal guilt
he expressed doubt, affords a precedent which no
other Governor will ever follow. It would be
better for a Premier or a Governor to make pre.
cedents of his own than to follow one-half of those
now on record. That this is “not Sir John
Robertson's House ” is beside the question; if a
dissolution it the salve due to his wounded vanity
he should certainly have it, but if Parliament is
run for the benefit of the people, it must be proved
to have outlived its usefulnees-its resources
must be exhausted—before Lord Carington will
bo constitutionally justified in putting a prema-
ture termination to its existence. One thing more,
the vicious tendency of the supposed claim is to
L be considered, The threat of a dissolution, if
there seems to be a reasonable chanee of its ful-
filment, Is not without strong: influence in the
House. If the theory of our Sydney contempor-
aries is true, the seats of members are at the
mercy in very many cases of the Premier for the
time being-. Suoh a power would enable him to
prop up a Ministry that was too weak to stand upon
its own merits. If the request should be made,
we hope Lord Carington will show his contempt
of the alleged right and his knowledge of the
colonial Constitution by refusing to recognise any
such claim.
«
Medical Titles.
A Medical Titles Bill should receive prompt
attention from the new Parliament of New South
Wales. Quacks are growing in number and ag-
gressiveness. The other day, at Ultimo, near
Sydney, a coroner's jury added as a rider to their
v rdict on the death of a child, "That men not
legally qualified shoulcl be prevented by Act of
Parliament from practising medicine.” We go
against that. Medicine is not an exact science,
like mathematics. A legal qualification does not
include all of it that is useful. The want of the
qualification dees not exclude useful knowledge
Any attempt to make the uses of medicine the*
secret of a particular guild merits failure.
But Parliament has a right to legislate against
dishonesty. A practitioner without a dip-
loma who announces that he can
bodies may be as honest as any one. But
if he adds to his announcement letters or
symbols denoting to the public that he is the
possessor of a diploma he is a rogue and a fraud.
He is as dishonest as the scoundrel who enters a
family circle on forged letters of introduction. In
an article in the Austrlasian Medical Gazette
a couple of months ego, reference was made to
a firm of advertising medicos in Sydney who not
alone assumed titles they had not earned, but
quoted bogus medical journals in support of what
they called their high professional standing. Such
conduct is flat fraud. It is barefaced imposture.
It should not take more than one night for Parlia-
ment to carry through a Bill making it a misde-
meanour for men to assume medical titles without
having earned them. After that, let everyone
who likes practise, and— caveat emptor— let the
patient beware. This was the view cfjhe late Dr.
Fortescue. It is simple, straight, and would
effectually choke off rogues.
“A Beak’s ” Blasphemy.
We have been longiug for one glimpse of a
flogged man. We knew the lash was at work
regularly in New South Wales and that week
after week men were taken down from the
triangles with the white sinews standing out on
their skinless backs. But we could not find out
what became of the men afterwards. Our legis-
lators taid they were made so much better by
the discipline that no on© would know them
when their backs healed. The statement, how-
ever, was treated as a figment. Charles
Dickens was a long time puzzled to know what
became of postboys and donkeys, and Anally
conceived that the boys rode away into eternity
on the backs of the donkeys. We, too, were on
the point of concluding that flogged men dis-
appeared astride of the legislative figment, when
Suddenly a flogged man in all his majesty arose
before us. It was last week, in the
Court of Mr. O’Malley Clarke, Stipendiary
Magistrate of Sydney, George Mulholland
was brought up for rioting and other-
wise misbehaving himself in Castlereagh -
street. He looked familiarly at the P.M. “ Give
us a chance, your worship,” he said. “ You’ve
had plenty of chances,” replied his worship; “ you
were flogged recently, and it appears to have done
you little good.” “ Weil, try me once more,” said
the prisoner, and then, as the policeman went to
remove him, " he kicked up his heels and pranced
away.” So we saw a flogged man at last. We
know now he does not ride to heaven when his
back heals. We see that in this case he was a
bigger ruffian than before he was flogged. Wo
see that the legislative figment of betterness
coming by the lash is a lie. Doubtless, it is an
untruth always. The flogged man comes out into
the dark places of society, and "kicks up his
heels and prances away.” But why should Mr.
O’Malley Clarke testify against the lash? By
belittling the efficacy of the lash he belittles the
wisdom of the Legislature. That is blasphemy—
ljlasphemy in a " beak.”
Tlie Hand of Providence.
On the 25th January, 1835, the Southern Railway
line of New South Wales was much damaged at a
place called Salt Clay Creek, near Cootaraundra, by
a rush of water which the culverts were not large
enough to carry away. In the memorable acci-
dent which ensued seven persons were killed and
many others more or less severely injured. One
of the latter entered an action in the Supreme
Court fsr the recovery of damages on account of
injuries sustained in the accident, caused, as he
alleged, by the defective construction of the line.
The Government, on the contrary, asserted that
the hand of Providence was answerable for the
loss, and the jury, accepting this view, recorded
a verdict for the defendant. Scarcely has a year
elapsed when similar damage is done to the line
not more than 15 miles from the former spot, and
an accident is only averted by the watchful-
ness and presence of mind of a fettler
named Starr. Will the railway authorities
have the audacity now to allege that the hand
of Providence is answerable for the damage done
to th© permanent way on this ocoasion ? There is
the usual story of a phenomenal fall of rain to
acoount for the failure of the culverts to perform
their assigned work, but, even supposing—what we
are by no means molined to admit—that the down-
fall was phenomenal, what precautions were
taken to avert a catastrophe? None whatever.
The accidental vigilance of the man Starr alone
was the salvation of the passengers. If a calamity
had happened it is not likely that a jury would
have been found willing to charge the hand of
Providence with the liability for the damage
done. The fault would have been rightly charged
to departmental incompetency. To us it seems
nothing short of blasphemy to saddle Divine
agencies with the losses consequent upon human
, bung-log end supinenefs; tod vre believe that if


persona injured in January Jaat were now to
sue for damages a verdict would be in their
favour. It was bad enough to blame God for
man’s incompetency once; we don’t think aDy
jury would dare to do it a second time.
*
Bigotry and Books.
Bigotry dies hard. Defeated in fair fight by the
forces of enlightenment it sets itself to rob the
victor of the spoils he has fairly won. Bigotry
rallied all its retainers for the purpose of prevent-
ing the Sunday opening of museums, art galleries,
and libraries. The CHAdbands of New South
Wales tried to prove that to look at secular pic-
tures was spiritual and moral damnation, and that
legislation must step in to prevent men from be-
coming outlaws under both codes. The real rea-
son of the opposition by the Chadband section
was that they knew if places of instruction or
amusement were open on the Sawbath their
own harvest would materially suffer. Every-
one knows the issue of this fight. The
will of the colonists, constitutionally expressed,
declared for the opening of these places; bigotry
was defeated on every point, and the spoils
remained in the camp of the vietors. Then bigotry
set itself to burgle the spoils. This notice from
the lending branch of the Sydney Free Library
shows how successfully the victors have been
robbed of the fruits of victory in that institution!
"Works of fiction,” says a notice posted in a
dozen places there, “ will in future be issued on
week-days only.” We don’t say that the person
signing this notice is the slave of bigotry, nor do
we accuse any one of the officials of the Library
of any intolerance or sympathy with cant»
we only know that those shelves were
thrown open to the public by resolution
of Parliament, and that private enterprise,
to use no harder term, has closed the majority of
them in defiance of the order of the people. Any-
one knows that the number of works of fiction
used exceeds that, of any other class of literature,
so that it is plain that although the doors are open
by order of the House, a very large proportion of
the books are not available for use. How much
farther is this moral discrimination to extend ? If
to borrow a work of fiction entails damnation,
what will be the destination of a man who applies
for a book of memoirs ? And where will a man
go who takes away a volume of poems? But if
distinctions are to be made, with regard to
various classes of books, a dividing line
should also be drawn in the picture galleriss.
Nude Venuses, Greek s'ave3, as well as fair
and lightly - clothed maidens of all nations,
should be exhibited on week-days only. There
is no harm in looking at a picture of little
Johnnie’s going to church on Sunday, but all our
colonial Chad bands will tail you that a single peep
at a representation of a classic maiden stepping
from her bath is of itself a mortal sin. If this
library notice is allowed to remain, the nude
Yenuses should certainly be vetoed. But we hope
jt will not be allowed to remain. There is surely
one member in the House who will take the
trouble to call attention to this notice, and assert
the dignity of the representative legislature.
Bigotry will never dare to meet the foe again in
the open field, but experience has shown that the
conquerors must keep a sharp eye upon their
trophies of conquest.
Th« It ATI 8 O? StrUSOBIFTION tO THB BULLBTIIf
are—For on# year, 84#.; half-year, 13a. 6<L;
quarter, 6b. 04.—1 n advance.
Tn« Advbrtibino Baths are Ss. per In eh :
special posltiona In the paper 7b. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 108. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions!
18 per cent.: For 63 consecutive insertions, 36 per
eent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
BertioH. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
h# made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient-
One of the greatest British Insurance
Companies, the Scottish Widows’ Fund, has de-
termined to advance no more money on English
land, and is despatching a representative to
Australia with power to purchase land or other-
wise invest the funds which are being withdrawn
from unproductive investments in Great Britain,
The directors have five millions of cash capital
to handle.
The spirit has moved the officers of the
N.S.W. Telegraph Department to banquet Mr,
Cracknell—one of their bosses, who has just re-
turned from Europe. Of course Dan. O'Oonnor
the new Postmaster-General, was there. If nis
life as a Minister is to be short he will, at any
rate, make it as merry as possible. Many persons
might think it an unbecoming thing for the re-
sponsible head of the Department to attend a
hgMnuet of this kind. The Honourable Danifl
wßPHroubled by no such considerations. He
rushed at his conjaynil task as gushingly as did
Tom. Slattery when he good-naturedly promised
in public the other day, to use his power and
influence as Minister of Justice to further the
Jesuit cause. In proposing the health of the
guest of the evening, which he did in a Niagara
of slobber, Daniel first of ail humbly asserted
his own inability to do justice to it. This is a
little Action which Dan uses as an introduction to
those speeches which he apparently considers
himself supernaturally clever in delivering. Then
he is reported to have said: “Of course I know
that I am in the proper place at the present mo-
ment.” Look at that new 1 Does this refer to his
position as a Minister of the Crown? If so, it is
probable that Parliament will undeceive him at a
very early date. Or does it refer to his position as
proposer of the toast ? In the latter case he was
probably right. At a spontaneous-tribute-of-
our-admiration banquet, Din is quite capable
•f evolving the prinoipai speech. Then he
airily stated that Mr. Cracknell “shed a halo of
glory round the name of Australasia.” Wear®
getting sick of this halo of glory business The
Soudan farce encircled us with a halo of glory,
and Dan wound a wreath of the same commodity
round his classic brow, and yet his only reputa-
tion is that of the greatest *• skite ” in the seven
•olonies. Then the “Jsynill one” did a clever bid
for Press support by expressing “ the hope that
both Press and people would never forgot that
Mr. Cracknell had advanced them in the scale
•f civilisition,” and so on. The conclusion
of the picnic orator’s speech puzzles us not
a little, lor when he alluded to the guest of the
evening as “the great master of telegraphy,” it is
reported that the statement was received with
cheers and laughter.” Why laughter? Can it
have been that those who are the real scientific
experts of the Department were rather incredu-
lous, and therefore somewhat amused at the
greasy adulation ladled out to the modest M-.
Cracknell by his official SGAperior ? Or is it pos-
sible that the cheers were for ihe master of tele-
graphy, and the laughter at the master of blather-
skitery ? If so, we are inclined to think that the
performances of the pair were fittingly recog-
A SUNDAY SERVICE.
Thb Town Hall clock was striking 11 on Sunday
evening, when an intellectual-lcoking man, who
appeared as if fasting for a wager, might be
observed at the junotion of Park and Castlereagh
streets, Sydney.
It was we.
The afternoon had been spent by us in the
Domain, absorbing information from the peripa-
tetio but highly cultivated lecturers who hebdoma-
dally treat the public to a series of weil-digested
views on the political and religious subjects of the
day. At these gatherings, every shade of opinion
finds its admirers. From one knoll, an intelli-
gent shoemaker proclaims in trumpet tones
his entire disbelief in the personality of the
Devil, and seoures considerable applause. He is
succeeded by a little baldheaded, spindle-shanked
orator, who pipes his opinion that although Satan
might atone time have existed, still overwork and
loose living have long since killed him. A third
speaker, anxious to divert the current of thought
from a sacerdotal into a political channel, breaks
fresh ground by asserting that there is but one
Monarch in the world at present and he is a stick
—of dynamite. This uncompromising lecturer
was of foreign aspect, and so much resembled
the weloome persons who, by merely turning a
handle, keep our streets alive with polkas and
profanity, that a person beside us with a mouth
like a torn gunny-bag, asked “Where’s the
monkey, mate?’’ This thoughtful query caused
such unbecoming levity that the iconoclast re-
tired with a cruel sneer on his dark face.
At the corner named there was a band of evan-
gelists formed in a circle, and singiDg hymns in a
MR. JOSEPH SYMES.
half-heBrted way. The entrance to the Gaiety
Theatre was hut a short distance off, and as
crowds struggled for admission to a Freethought
lecture the cause of the thread of melancholy
running through the Salvationists’music became
apparent. It was a gruesome sight to see people
paying for the privilege of being burned when,
for nothing, they could be saved, and choose their
own temperature. A demure-looking female in-
vited us to share her book, pointed out the hymn,
and trusted we would join. We did. But the
bitter experiences resulting from the occupancy
of a seat in front of the corner-men at Hiscocks'
minstrel show, on Saturday night, caused us to
compromise ourselves too deeply to be for-
given. By a sort of unconscious cerebration we
fatuously demanded from the leading disciple
solutions of a number of childish conundrums.
We’r© not quite certain that we didn’t put to him,
“S’pose you was a-boatin’ with your wife and
moder an’ they fell In, which on ’em would you
save ?” It was only when a huge rustic, with a
powerful breath and a truculent hat, gave us a
slap like a railway buffer, and remarked, “Hi,
Mister. Ask ’im ’bout Jonar an’ the whale an’ I’ll
see fair play,” that we saw what a spectacle we
were making of ourselves.
The Gaiety remained. Joseph Symes was to
lecture. The first thing we saw on entering was
Nick Feuillado tuning his fiddle. Then we were
for going out and getting our money back, but the
passage was blocked. From reading the Melbourne
papers, particularly the Telegraph and the
Southern Cross, we knew all about Symes -that
he was a vulgar, ignorant person, who, in pigeoa
English, and with an accent savouring of Seven
Dials, poured out buckets of blasphemy. Why
the house was so packed appeared to us but an
illustration of the depraved taste of the people.
After some airs from “ Lucia” had been treated
with wanton vindictiveness, Joseph arose, but
had to fall back on bowing l for about five minutes
till silence was restored. Then, for nearly an
hour and a half, he simply played upon the great
audience. Silence, laughter, and cheers of ap-
proval or of indignation followed almost every
sentence. It was singular. Here in front of us
was a man who, but the other day, stood in a
dock behind rows of iron spikes, and defied the
bitter bigotry of a great city to gag him—stood
there to defend not himself alone, but every man
who prizes the right to act and speak as he likes—
provided that, by so doing, he does not encroach
on the rights of others. Instead of ribald twaddle,
he gave us peeps into vistas of thought—nervous,
cultivated English, instead of uncouth patois.
And all this without a note of any kind or the least
hesitation. Through the whole “ service ” ran
little threads of humour which kept the “ congre-
gation s ” mouths stretched to an abnormal extent.
Persons who usefalse teeth and are ashamed to own
it should avoid Symes. Teeth are proverbially
hard to digest. And yet we almost regret having
gone. His visit has spoilt our ideal ogre. While
Joseph appeared to us as the modern raw-head"
and-bloody-bones we were happy. No w, it is clear
that somebody must have been telling stories, and
(the thought is maddening) if it should turn out to
be the piou3 newspapers! But, no. iThey never lie.
The Archimedean lever that [Hive it a rest.
No more Sunday reporting for you.— Ed. B.] Well,
at any rate,room might be given us to say that Joe
issued a challenge to anyone to meet him in fair
argument on any subject. We were disposed to
take it up before the lecture commenced. By the
time it was finished we thought it was well to let
Cardinal Moran, Bishop Barry, or some other
hierophant have the first go. We’ve no doubt
they could knock this aggressive sceptic over the
ropes in the first round, and it is a duty they owe
the public to do so without delay.
The new Mayor of Sydney, Mr. Young,
has issued a ukase forbidding' fowl-breeding: in
the lower regions of the Town Hall. His next step
should b 9 to prohibit foul language in the upper
regions of the same building.
After all, there is not so much harm in
having conferred the title of Honourable on
George Alfred Lloyd. The application of the dis-
tinction is confined to the colony of New South
Wales, where people know him.
After theLiedertafel had serenaded Lord
Carington, Sir Patrick Jennings presented a
golden lyre to his Excellency, It must have
seemed to the recipient a very complimentary
act that a member of the late Dibba Ministry
should present him with a golden lyre.
The Bible is not allowed to be used or
read in State schools. Neither Is The Bulletin.
A public school-teacher was recently reported by
a senior chalk-and-duater operator for reading
The Bulletin in school. The offence was rank.
Nothing more interesting than the Government
Gazette or more religious than the Liberator
may now be recreatively read in the schools. The
Bible, it was alleged, and The Bulletin oame
under the clause which prohibits the “ leaving of
undesirable literature within reach of the chil-
dren.” We sin In good company.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a delightful beverage
as agreeable to the taste as Its properties are bene-
ficial to the health.
The breezes of spring have a voice to the bard,
And seem to give him this advice:
• If you would win fume purchase Summerfield’s
pants,
They’re unequalled for style, fit, and price.”*
What everybody says must be true. All
who have used Wolfe’s Schnapps say it Is the
best stimulant.
FOR OLD
AND YOUNO
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following’ Tricks will be sent by return post
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.--A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
rmT i,.i , Be ® n by the audience to be quite empty,
rne lid is placed on. and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is,, post free Is. 6d
rt?l£? D WJ J£A RI) 0F THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS. -lfcege cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free is. 2d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man a hat and is found inside. Price la. 6L, post
tree
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASK.— The case IS
shown crammed full of tine cigars, which instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2s. 6d„ post free 3’.
. MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
tricK. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
25., post free 2s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—-No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can he performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS.
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
a s*i!? t Q the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 2s. 6d,,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF,—
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audienee, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
®5 claim s> Trpsto 1 gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die ltse.f is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d„ post free 3s. 61.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
“CX.-The performer sends round a prettytilstie
box to the company, which they fill with lifers,
gloves, coins, &o. Directly the performer ti if as
it in his hands, without removing it from signt,
the articles instantly vanish, aDd the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a oase just large
enough to hold them. One of the audience iustantly
alter this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d„
post free 2a.
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—-The performer
Mags forward a candle out of a tight-fitting oase
a PP it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and candle in the case again, The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 28.61., post free 3e.
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEOBGK-ST., BYDNEV.
Between King and Marxet Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottli Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only Gs,
Small Bottle, ,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle,
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WJNE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. M. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
ft, per Bottle
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BSAUMONT PORT
ft. per Bottle,
RUM,
m Flasks, Sottiea, and Imperial Quartg
At lowest possible Prieas.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 3d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke<s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABGISX SISSS.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND 3CBLLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
Ssnrge and Market Streets,
■TSN&T.


Personal
Items
“’Tis money makes the mayor to go.” It
is (aid that Mr. Playfair, the ex-Mayor of Sydney,
has spent an enormous amount during the year,
and Is only too glad to give place to his successor.
A man named Hales was burnt to death
near Ballarat last week. His terrible fate is the
climax of a family history of horrors. His wife
died in the Ararat Lunatic Asylnm, his eldest son
broke his neck by a fall from a horse, his second
son was opened by a knife in a street row and died,
and his only daughter, after a brief flutter among
the soiled doves of the city, ended her career in
the Melbourne Hospital.
The Sydney Express refers to the Hon.
Daniel O’Connor, the new Postmaster-General, as
*'agab-gifted man.” Ye gods! To have stored
one’s head with the glories of Marathon and the
majestic suggestiveness of the Pass of Ther-
mopyhe, and to be called, because the lips give
adequate utterance to the thoughts born of these
mighty themes, a “gab-gifted man!” And by J.
G. O'Connor's Express! Yerrah, lave us the
flare!
It is not generally known that the quasi-
aristocrats who have the entree of Government
House, Sydney, received a quiet hint to keep away
from Lady Carington’s recent public reception.
It would have been a pity to expose them to the
ignominy of rubbing shoulders with the mob.
The moral of all this is very fine: the huge list of
persons who presented themselves on the occasion
becomes a serviceable record of people who are
not among the intimes of Government House.
Our old friend Tom “Castro” has been
summoned for the maintenance of his wife and
her three children. Ttie “Claimant” is going to
prove the illegitimacy of those three pledges in a
way that may fairly he considered conclusive. He
will summon as a witness the Governor of Port-
land, who will testify that Thomas was certainly
denied the privilege of any female society during
the years that Mrs. Castro presented him with a
little family. By the way, the Claimant's bona fide
son, whose portrait adorned the shop windows at
the time of the celebrated tria’, must he a full-
grown man now.
Auctioneers have long had the reputation
of being pretty brazen-faced, but one of the tribe
up at Nymagee must be specially hard-featured.
“ Prince Regent, the first favourite for the Ladies’
Braoelet,” says the Nymagee and Cobar Etar,
mi n a frisky moment kicked one of our local auc-
tioneers on the cheek, and split his hoof so badly
that he has had to he thrown out of work.” That
bit of news ought to make the average Sydney
hammer-wielder turn green with envy. When we
have the usual sale “ owiDg to early departure for
Europe,” we mean to engage that auctioneer, and
print the above item on the auction bill as a draw.
Mr. James Munro, of Melbourne, who has
recently returned from Europe, reminds us, in
his Ideas of what is amusing, of the subscriber to
Sydney Punch— we never met more than one, and
we believe he died when that funereal little j ournal
did— who used to say that he took it “ to have a
good laugh over.” Mr. Munro went home on
what he called a “pleasure-trip.” He stated at
the tea-and-muffin banquet given him on his re-
turn that during that trip “he had attended 35
temper race meetings, and had spoken at many of
them.” He discreetly refrained from saying
wheth r he had given as much pleasure as he got.
Imagir ■ the mental state of a man who would
attend 31 temperance meetings for pleasure I If
he had said for a stern sense of duty we could
have understood him. To paraphrase an old sea-
Baying— the man who would go to a Temperance
meeting for pleasure would go to Tophet for past-
time.
We deeply regret to see that just on the
eve of her return to England, Mrs. Sala, the wife
of Mr. George Augustus Sala, the eminent jour-
nalist, died at Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne, after a
sickness of 39 hours. Pour people only attended
the funeral—Mr. Sala, Mrs. and Miss Menzies, and
Dr. Robertson. The dec?ased lady was the right
hand of her husband,and associated herself closely
with all his literary enterprises. At home, in
Meoklenburgh Bquare, London, Mr. Bala’s prac-
tice was to run through the papers every morning
and choose from them three or four subjects
about which he found himself possessed of special
knowledge, or which he considered congenial to
his tastes just then. These topics Mrs. Sala would
bring to the managing editor of the Daily Tele,
graph, who would mark the one suitable for
treatment in a leading article for next morning’s
paper. Almost every day this piece of routine was
gone through, for, for many years, Mr. Sala had
an article in eaoh iesue of the London Daily
Telegraph. She sleeps now, far away from the
field of her old labours.
The Wasp, an American publication, in
speaking of Mr. Stead, the editor of the Pall
Mall Gazette, says:—“The mm who performed
in a day such a notable service for righteousness
as all the preachers in all the world’s pulpits have
never matched since time began to be marked off
by Sundays they have downed. The man who,
by a touch of his pen, set a nation ablaze and com-
pelled its Parliament to execute his will, is grasped
by a technicality of the law ; in throwing his pro-
tecting arm about young womanhood he was
guilty of assault. The saviour of young maids ]is
eruoifted by old ones. Surely there was never so
monstrous a spectacle as this man’s prosecution
upon a false issue by the Government which
hastened to shape its legislation to his demands
for right and reasonable laws. Of the thousand
unthinkable criminals from whosa awful orgies
his hand broke away the screen of immunity not
one is brought to justice, but he is prosecuted!
Incredible vil!any!—matchless and measurelo:s
rascality 1 A civilisation in which guch things can
be done is not Yfqvth preserving.”
In a Victorian district a parson was
called upon to do duty for another for a few Sun-
days at the screw of £1 per Sabbath. The substi-
tute went through his side of the contract, but
when he claimed the cash he was told he had only
made the rustics laugh, and would have to knock
away half the stipulated allowance. This has
created very strained relations between the hirer
and the hired, and an appeal to the county court is
freely talked of. We remember a case like this in
Dorsetshire, England. An itinerant curate sued a
vicar for two months’ salary similarly earned.
The vicar's defence was that the curate was a
wild Irishman, and that as soon as he opened his
mouth the congregation rolled off the cushions
and lay laughing until the service ended. Yet the
judge directed a verdict to be given for the plain-
tiff, on the ground that, if it b 9 good preaching
which makes a congregation cry, it must be held
to be equally good preaching which makes them
laugh. If Mr. Chomley, the newly-appointed
County Court Judge, gets this Victorian case to
decide, we humbly offer him the Dorsetshire pre-
cedent.
Australia’s “ Sala ” may b 9 found in
“ iEgles ”of the Australasian. For 11 years Mr.
Wallen has contributed a weekly column and a
half under this nom de plume to the Leader and
Australasian. Eor the four first years of that
long term his contribution appeared in the first-
named journal with the heading of “ Under the
Verandah.” On transferring his services to the
Australasian the title was changed to “ Talk on
’Change.” Mr. Wallen is known as a leading stock-
broker of the firm of Clark and Co. and chairman
of the Melbourne Stock Exchange. A glance at
the contributions published in “ Under the Veran-
dah ” during his time will show that “ comparisons
are odious” when made with regard to his contri-
butions of later date. Th® racy style of his earlier
writings no longer characterises him in anything
RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.
VISIT OF CLERIC.
PARSON: "YOU SAY ‘YOUR PASTORS AND MASTERS. NOW, WHAT IS A PASTOR?"
[No answer .]
PARSON: "NOW, CHILDREN, WHAT AMI?”
SMALL BOY: " A MAN, SIR.”
PARSON: "YES, YES, BUT WHAT SORT OF A MAN?"
LITTLE GIRL: “PLEASE, SIR, AN UGLY MAN.”
(And the reverend gentleman is now more Utter than ever about "Godless schools ").
that we now read from his pen. Eighteen years
work tell their tale on most litterateurs ! It was
so with Scott and Dickens. The later writings of
the “ Wizard of the North” are quits unreadable
oompared with his earlier efforts. So with
Dickens. How heavy aro “ Bleak House ” and
“Our Mutual Friend” when measured with
“ Martin Chuzzlewit,” “ David Copperfleld,” and
the five or six others of Dickens’ earlier time.
Now-a-days anyone with a taste for giddy
revelations—how many of u3 possess itl—finds a
Young Men’s Christian Association meeting almost
as good fun as a Divorce Court. At the Plymouth
Y.M.C.A. the Rev. William Ross was snuffling out
social purity doctrines, when Mr. Poy, Commis-
sioner of Emigration, told the reverend gentle-
man that he was a “ hypocrite.” It was a pretty
safe statement to make, even if Mr. Foy had
knownnothing for certain. In this case, however,
the indignant Commissioner was sure of his
ground, because the Rev. Ross had Mrs. Poy
snugly stowed away at his suburban residence.
The Christian young men, it seems, accepted the
affaire as quite a matter of courae, but a mob of
sinners ohased the clerical Don Giovanni out of
the hall and pressed him so sorely that he stuck
two or three of his pursuers with a penknife. It
is refreshing to iind that the amorous Mrs. Foy
is “ proud of what she has done.” There is some-
thing about a parson’s mode of wooing which
seems to elevate the object of his desire. Observe
the beatific expression on a married woman’s face
as she walks modestly out of the vestry after a
long interview with the shepherd. Muzzle-
tasting ” in the vestry is merely an interchange of
spiritual consolation.
Of the Light Cavalry regiments that
charged through the “Valley of Death, the 4th
Light Dragoons could boast of the small--1 officer
In the British Army. When war was declared
with Rusfia, it wa’ generally supposed that “ B,aby
Brown” would Bell his commission, as, though
email in stature, he was the possessor of ample
means. But the “ Baby ” Avas well in front when
his regiment reached tho Russian guns, and he
slashed at the gunners with the biggest of his
troopers. When the trumpet sounded the recall,
he was in the rear of the fragment of that splen-
did brigade, assisting in his cheeriest manner his
wounded servant, although he had himself re-
ceived an ugly gash in his thigh. Before the end
of the Crimean oampaign “ Baby ” had got his
troop, and retired upon his laurels with filed rank—
Maybe, “ Baby’s ” but a myth,
Conjured up by paper writers,
Just to make a very pith-
Y par. about those gallant fighters.
Little recks he what they say,
If his ghost can read (we doubt it).
He had done his deed that day,
Careless what was said about it.
But we’re “ jack,” wo own the fact,
Truth and Fancy’s realms are plundered,
O’er and o’er are stories hacked
Of the “ glorious Six Hundred.”
When did Briton fear a foe ?
Bach will fight—he seeks the chance, sirs.
Just allow us, Ave should know,
We’ve often seen the Sydney Lancers I
Dear old, dreary old David Blair gives a
few words of solemn encouragement to all seekers
after the Infinite, strivers after the Ideal, and
searchers for the Unirnown. In a modest letter to
the Argus, David says:—‘‘My own experience has
shown me that only through a long course of
mental warfare, never remitted, and maintained
with the resolve never to be conquered— ‘ faint,
yet pursuing’—is the high tableland of absolute
assurance and unclouded light attained.” Here
are tidings of comfort and joy for weary toilers in
the vineyard of knowledge. Keep at it, keep at it,
dear friends, and you may yet attain the tableland
of David B„ and become a shining light of th>
Melbourne Shakespeare Society. Moreover, th
road to learning is about to be made easier Ihan o
yore, for many thorns and briers will be remover
from the way. What saith David: “Ihavebeei
engaged for some time back in throwing the remits
of 30 years of reading and study into the form o!
seven lectures, which it is my intention to deliver
in various places as opportunity offers.” How wt
long for those lectures, beside which even Mon-
cure Conway’s most funereal efforts shall seen,
mere frivolous effusions! We sbant require tt
shift about to various places in order to devoui
the whole seven. Msn needs but little here below,
and one of David’s addresses will put us into i
frame of mind that we can cry, ‘‘Ob, Death,
where is thy sting? Oh, Grave, where is thy vic-
tory ?" Dor, mark ye! we know somewhat of
David’s literary style, and, judging from its
dreary dogmatism, we should be disposed to thint
that the “high tableland of absolute assurance ’’
is not necessarily brightened by “unclouded
light.”
Dr. H. L. Cortis, the ex-champion ama
teur bicyclist of England, who died so suddenly
the other day at Carcoar, N.S.W., was an athletic
enthusiast—to the direction his enthusiasm toot
must, in all human probability, be attributed hit
death era ho had reached his prime. The dootoi
was a flue, tall, sinewy, loose-jointed young fellow
of the Spofforth species, and, though an Eaglish
man by birth he looked when first the writer mo 1
him a few years since, a thoroughly typical" corn-
stalk.” He said at the time that he intended to
ride bioycles no more, and on being asked whether
he had tired of the exercise, he replied that
only a few evenings previously he had
made a startling discovery - while diniDg
with a well-known brother medico in Lyons
Terrace he had felt very unwell, and his friend, on
examining him, found that he had disease of the
heart —produced, probably* by over-exertion on
the bicycle. Dr. Cortis, just before his much re-
gretted death, was acting as locum tenemt for Dr.
Kelly, of Carcoar. He had been suffering from
ulceration of the stomach, but was able to rid® 1®
the Members’ Purse at the local races on Boxing
Day. In tho evening he went to the circus, and
shortly after his return home he complained of
feeling unwell, and gradually became worse. He
remained unconscious on Sunday, and expired
next day, despite the best efforts of Drs. Thorpe,
of Blayney, and Smith, of Cowra. Dr. Cortis, we
remember, wrote some years ago an excellent
little book on athletic training, which passed
through more than one edition in England. His
melancholy death should serve as a warning to
athletes. Tho man who breaks records often breaks
his own heart.
A new and romantic sensation—“ The
Severed Hand.” Scene: Sumner Beach, near
Christchurch (N.Z.). A gentleman walking on the
sea shore at Sumner, a few days ago, found a
man’s hand with a ring on one of the fingers lying
on the beach as if it had been cast up by the sea.
The ring was afterwards identified as having be-
longed to a Mr. Arthur Howarde, who was sup-
posed to have been drowned there while bathing
about two months ago. The curious part of the
discovery, however, is that the hand, when found,
was in a Btate of excellent preservation, and did
not at all look as if it had been tossed with tangle
and with shell for two months in the briny deep.
After his disappearance, Howarde’s clothes were
found among the rocks, and, as he had
informed several persons that he intended
having a sea-bath, it was generally be-
lieved that he was drowned. He was a married
man with a family, and his life was insured for
£3lOO in different offices. The insurance offices, on
being asked for the money by his executors, de-
clined to pay until better proof of his death than
that afforded by his breeches and things was
forthcoming. Then came the discovery of the
Severed Hand, but the insurance people are stilj
sceptical. They don’t believe the Sumner sharks,
having swallowed the rest of him, would have left
a hand with a valuable ring on it uneaten. They
can’t swallow that. They evidently want another
instalment of Arthur’s remains before anteing up.
We expect soon to hear of his left ear being
found floating about the bay. That was an item
no shark could swallow anyhow. We knew
Arthur well, and it was a whopper. When found,
the proof will be complete, and the offioes will
have to shell out or “put up the shudders.”
With the name of Captain Green of
Ballarat (Victoria) few of the present genera-
tion are familiar. Mr. W. Attwater, of Graf-
ton (New South Wales), otherwise Bendigo Bill
and Captain Green, was a prominent figure
amongst public men in the days of the Eureka
riots. He it was who fostered and encouraged the
spirit of resistance to the tyrannies of the authori-
ties, which culminated in the formation of the
Stockade and the battle of the famous flat. The
miners’ right question was a grievance. Men
were hunted down and frequently chained to logs
all night for being without their miners’ license',
for which the extortionate fee of £1 per month
was exacted. After a night at the side of a
tree, the men were mustered in the morning,
driven before the Warden, and fined or im-
prisoned. Captain Green at length decided to test
the question, and cno night, with a few comrades,
freed all the captive miners. Next morniDg, upon
going their rounds, the police found but the shat-
tered handcuffs, the prisoners were non est. Then
came the open revolt of the miners, the building
of the Stockade, and the slaughter of a few miners
and soldiers—historical items with which all are
familiar. Fully convinced that the miners re-
quired special legislation, Captain Green cast about
for a man qualified to take the position of miners’
member. His choice fell upon young Peter Lalor,
who had lost an arm in the battle. A property quali-
fication was needed, this Lalor lacked. A tarpaulin
muster was made. Ounces rained into the blanket,
and a place at Blowhard, near L?armouth, was
purchased. Peter Lalor was sent to Parliament,
and has represented constituencies in the vicinity
of Ballarat ever since. The miners’ rights were
shortly granted, and Captain Green disappeared
from the public view. He is still hale, active, and
respected in the river town in which he lives.
If there is one thing more than another
that should be put down with a strong hand in
the N.S.W. Civil Service, it is the practice of
allowing senior officers to receive “ spontaneous ”
banquets and testimonials from their juniors. No
sooner does the Christmas season roll round than
a select few of departmental tuft-hunters club
together, and, with a careful eye on future pro.
motions, declare, “ We, the undersigned officers of
this Department being desirous of showing some
slight token of respect,” &c., and then they trot
round, levy a toll on the rest of the craft, and,
having pulled off the affair successfully, they
take mighty good care to let the testimonialised
party know to whom he is chiefly indebted for
the favour. The result is that an incompetent
groveller often succeeds by this means in crawling
to an elevated position, whilst a good, honest
worker, who has a soul above such meanness, i»
not only kept at the bottom of the ladder, but i«
also subjected to a oourse of petty annoyano® that
unfit him for work, and makes his life »
burden to him. We! remember one instance, at
least, in which, on some officers proposing to nr»-
sent a testimonial to the head of their Department
the second in command declared he would take it
as a personal insult if such a thing occurred, and
an enmity, which has not since been healed,at
once eventuated. Only the other day in Sydney a
monster mass meeting, consisting of five generous
hearted Civil servants decided to give a brillhat
“bankit” to one of their head officers, but as tb«
vhole of the rest of the;D apartment bucked most
unmistakeably against the business, it was pro-
posed to throw the chief ruler into the feed as well
and thus kill, or rather stuff two birds with th*
same arrangement. This fell through also, and
now the five enthusiasts go smiling round on tb«
anti-banqueting democrats and swearing to them-
selves because their breath isn't a pestilence
strong enough to strike them dead.
Botieicault’s “plain, unvarnished state-
ment ” of his business relations with Messrs*
Williamson, Garner,and Mnsgrove has provoked j
pretty pertinent reply from the firm. “H®
oxhi. its for the thousandth time his well-kno^ 11


cantankerous disposition,” says their letter. Well,
there is no getting away from the fact that Dion
U not altogether angelic. The Lord Londes-
borough episode in connection with Dion’s Ibom-
bastic production of ‘‘Babil and Bijou” at the
Covent Garden Theatre many years ago, will not
soon be forgotten. His disparagement of things
Melbournian was not confined to theatrical
management. Dion’s contempt for the hotels was
openly expressed during his visit. Even the goods
sold in the shops didn’t escape the great man’s
withering sarcasm, and nothing would persuade
him that imported delicacies (he was a whale at
delicacies) were equal to the same things vended
at home. He was wont to indulge his wailing even
when he went shopping with his fair young
intended. A man who quibbles about eat-
ables in the full fever of Love’s young
dream must be cantankerous. You might
feed most fellows [with brickbats at that
blissful period, and they would swallow them for
oyster pdUs. Asforßoucy’s complaints that he
was got at over his engagement—well, they will
hardly make our tears to flow. The veteran is too
keen an old warrior at £. s. d. matters to be able
to pass himself off as a lamb at this time o’ day.
One point crops up in the “ Boucicault-Triumvir-
ate” discussion, which strikes us as queer. The
former says: “The Theatre Koyal, Melbourne,
will fairly accomodate £225. We opened Saturday,
11th July, to £2BO. Where the odd £55 was packed
away is no concern of ours.” Mark Williamson’s
reply : “This may bo deceptive to intending
visitors, On several occasions the receipts have
far exceeded £3OO, whilst on Boxing )Day last
£4OB was returned.” There is nothing deceptive
about Boucicault’s insinuation. If £lB3 of stand-
ing room is occasionally crowded into the house, it
ought to be as clear as mud to intending visitors
that the gangways would be impassible in the
event of a fire breaking out in the theatre. It
would be cruel to conjecture that £lB3 worth of
people “ turned it up ” after the first act of the
pantomime, on Boxing Night, and made room for
others to come in. But, if not, how was the trick
managed ? Surely the prices couldn’t have been
iHoreased on Boxing Day f
* * *
The late General Grant hated music.
When asked at a party what soDg or piece he
would prefer, he used invariably to reply: “ Oh, I
don’t mind; something short.”
WILLIAM CRESWICK,
The Veteran Shakesperian Actor.
This is beautiful, as a specimen of the way
the average gaol parson goes about his “duty,”
The scene of action is laid in England, but we can
find plenty of parallel case 3 in N.S.W. “ What was
your father?” strikes one as being a peculiarly
beautiful and fitting question for a parson to ask.
Suppose the prisoner had replied “ The Duke of
X We can fancy how that white choker
would have bowed down to the incarcerated one s
hoots. The whole thing is one of the neatest shows-
up for the “Bulwark of the State” business we
have seen for some time. An agent ©f the Pall
Mall Gazette caused himself to be put in prison
to enable him to make a study of life from behind
the bars. He found human nature there in its
unaffected forms, and derived much information
from contact with his fellow prisoners. Having
exhausted the information and amusement they
could afford, he addressed his observations to the
prison chaplain, a very necessary adjunct of those
institutions. The results were hardly flattering to
the usefulness of official piety. His narrative of this
good chaplain’s effort at turning him from the
supposed error of his ways had a visit
from the chaplain after I had been in prison a day
or two, and the interesting and edifying interview
consisted of these questions as nearly as I can re-
member : “What is your name ? What are you ?
What are you here for? Can you read and write?
(Brilliant questions to ask a man who said he was
a journalist). “What church are you in the habit
of attending? What was your father? In how
many ways did God make the world? What did
he do on the seventh day? How many command-
ments lare there? On what mount were they
given to Moses? What did our Saviour come into
the world for?” After receiving my answer to the
last the reverend gentleman remarked, “How
careful we ought to be to avoid sin,” took up his
hat, said “Good-morning,” and the interview was
at an end.
Political
Points
Graham Berry says the Salvation Army is
doing good work. He evidently looks to it to
achieve his political salvation in the “ Sweet by
and bye ” when he returns from England.
When Dihbs was told that old Sir John
had succeeded in yarding a mob of Ministers at
last, he struck a Rolla-to-the-Peruvians air, and
exclaimed, "Nothing succeeds like a success-or.”
The Bulletin is in a position to give an
authoritative denial to the report that Sir Henry
Parkes and Sir John Robertson are separated by
differences of policy. The exact contrary is the
caße. Sir John and Sir Henry are unable to come
together owing to the identity of their policy. The
policy of each is to be Premier.
The San Francisco Post does not allow the
London Times to criticise with, impunity the
morals ef the Pacific slope. It prints in retalia-
tion a week’s list of London enormities, and sums
up thus:—“There is more savagery, ten times
over, in little England than in all the United
States, counting the Indians in.”
The only condition on which Thady
O’Kane, of the Miner will support the Separation
League, is that the new colony shall have hut
“one Chamber, with a president elected by that
Chamber or directly by the electors.” The Miner
is a powerful paper in the North and talks with
the voice of thousands of diggers. It will be worth
while having another colony on the mainland if it
will show a way of doing without sleepy Council
Chambers and imported peers.
Mr. O. Dan gar is going to try to make the
Elections Committee of the N.S.W. Assembly be-
lieve that it was not Burdett-Smith’s beauty but
beer which secured that gentleman his seat at the
last election. R. B. laughs the idea to scorn, but
the other side are very confident of victory. The
money hags of both parties being well stocked,
BANDMANNESQUE.
MARC ANTHONY GRIG (the Distinguished Tragedian): “ME FRIEND, HOW IS THIS ? THE
HOUSE WAS COLD LAST NIGHT-COLD-COLD-CA-HOLD! AND [?] I HAD DIS-
TRIBUTED ME GOOD GOLD AMONG THE USHERS TO INSURE A HEARTY WEL
COME AND TUMULTUOUS APPLAUSE.”
MR. OGEBTEIN ( the Prosaic and Hebraic Manager ): “GOLTI ARF A SUVREN! YOU DON’ T
GET NO DUMULTUOUS ABBLAUSE FOR NO ARF SUV’EEN. DOT DON GET YOU
NO MORE AS A GORDIAL REZEPTION!”
there -will he a considerable flow of gold in con-
nection with the proceedings. It is said t..at
nearly every voter in the electorate will be sum-
moned to give evidence.
Mr. Sexton, the orator of the Irish party,
speaking recently on the advantages of a protec-
tive policy for Ireland under a native Parliament
said: “ He did not think any country could be in a
healthy condition so long as the earnings of the
agricultural community went out of the country
into another to pay the manufacturers andarti-
zass in that other country. He held that the
country would never be in a satisfactory state
until they had in the urban communities a market
for the agricultural produce, and until the
farmers and labourers got from those towns their
manufactured goods.”
Postmasters-General have been getting
themselves into hot water on both sides of the
world. Mr. Campbell, of Victoria, horrified his
colleagues by officially forwarding an address of
sympathy to poor Stead, of the Pall Mall
Gazette. Lord John Manners, the English
P.M.G., was equally rash in issuing a circular in
favour of one of the Tory candidates at the late
election. Lord John, it seems, rendered himself
liable to unheard-of penalties by his misguided
conduct. Mr. Campbell’s case is not quite as bad.
However, he got what he deserved —tne thanks of
the community at large.
Says theNoBTHEBNMiNER:—“ The Sydney
lickspittles are grovelling before Lord Carington.
The papers are full of it; they give sketches of all
bis household gods, horses, dogs, &c. How dis-
gusted he must feel with the whole lot. ’ And
further on the veteran Thaddeus observes:—
“ Political corruption has reached a point in New
South Wales which the United States could not
come near. The corruption is wholesale, not con-
fined to Tammany rings, or railway rings, it per-
meates every department, saturates every con-
stituency until the colony stinks in the nostrils of
all Australians. A Tartuffe and Mawworm Press
spreads an air of sanctimonious piety over public
life.”
At a recent meeting of the Indian and
Colonial Exhibition Commission, Sir Alex. Stuart
said that he was going’ to take his son with him to
London to assist him in case the state of his health
would not permit of his devoting the requisite
attention to affairs in connection with the N.S.W.
court, and, added the wily Sir Sandy, “I am
going to take my son at my own expense. ’ Was
not this a gentle hint that the expense ought to
be borne by some one else ? But woat about Cap-
tain Loftus ? Was he not appointed at a salary of
£6OO to assist the Commissioner ? It would seem
now that it was never intended that the gallant
Captain should do anything but draw his cheque
once a month.
For eloquence, Dan. O’Connor, the N.S.W.
Postmaster-General, has always held the belt
against all-comers, but since his elevation to the
Treasury benches he seems to have developed a
logical acuteness that promises to be of immense
use to his party. ’Here is a chip from his address
to the cultured ones of West Sydney, which prove 8
his argumentative ability, “it is perfectly true,
he writes, "that I am new to office, a charge which
could be successfully urged against every .man,
here and elsewhere, who has ; taken a portfolio for
the first time.” This is just the kind of writing
for which we have so long sighed. There, in one
short statement, is an admission of the charge
made against him, and a prima facie demonstra-
tion of its utter UDjustuess. It is evident that the
alleged trouble will always continue and the same
charge be constantly made until good second-hand
Ministers can be procured instead of new second-
class ones, as in the present instance.
Mr. C. 8. Parnell, speaking at Kildare,
Ireland, last October, said:—"l don’t suppose
that the new Democratic Parliament, elected by
household suffrage in England, will continue to
go on paying 12,000 policemen—lrish policemen.
For what ? Not to preserve the peace, not to ar-
rest stray donkeys that may be trespassing on the
roadside, not even to bring an odd young man who
may have taken a sup too much after a fair, not
even to bring an odd young man to the barracks.
No. They are paying ail these men for the pur-
po?e of extracting rackrents for Irish landlords.
But it is not that alone. They have to keep 30.006
soldiers in the country as well, and at the time of
the Land League they had to keep 40,€00 So that,
practically speaking, you have an expenditure of
five or six millions of pounds sterling a year—
nearly all of it paid by the English taxpayer, and
all for the purpose of screwing rackrents out of
Irish tenants. I am very sure that that sort of
thing will not be allowed to go on.”
The returning officer for the electorate of
Young, N.S.W,, certified that at the late election
Mr. W. J. Watson had a majority of two votes
over his opponent, Mr. Maekinnon. A scrutiny of
the ballot papers by the Elections Committee
revealed the fact that Mr. Maekinnon had a
majority of 48, and, of course, he gets the seat.
How such a serious mistake was made will not he
known until the evidence is published. The public
are entitled to information of this kind at the
earliest moment, but it'is not obtainable, as news-
paper reporters are not allowed to attend the
meetings of the committee. In the other cronies
reporters are allowed to be present at meetings of
ail Parliamentary committees when evidence is
being taken. It is said that, in order to demon-
strate that he had been wrongfully deprived of
his seat, Mr. Maekinnon was put to considerable
expense, yet the committee made no award as to
costs. Ought not the returning officer be com-
pelled to hear the consequences of the blunder ?
Louis Riel, the promoter of the late rising
in Canada, after many delays, was at length exe-
cuted on the 16th November last. When he saw
the sheriff approach with the warrant for his exe-
cution, he said: “So you have come with the
great announcement ? lam glad that at last lam
to he cleared from my sufferings.” When asked
as to the disposition of his effects, his reply was:
“ I have nothing but my heart, and I gave that to
my country 15 years ago.” He has been accused
of cowardice, hut bis bearing on tbe scaffold
eloquently refuted the charges. Now that he is
dead, the grievances which he risked and lost his
life to remove will probably receive attention
LOUIS RIEL.
(Executed on the 16th ult.)
from the Canadian Parliament. Some disturbances
took place at Montreal and other towns when it
was known that mercy was not to be extended to
him. The London Echo strongly appealed for a
commutation of the sentence, and the cause of
the too-zealous reformer was espoused by many
of the world’s leading journals, but the thought
of hemp was as dear so the Canadian Privy Coun-
cil as it seems to be to the Executive Council of
—Barataria.
The political lawyers of Australia are so
numerous that they rule the Australian Parlia-
ment. Queensland has under 300 000 people and 200
lawyers-160 attorneys and 3J odd barristers—or
at the rate of one lawyer to every 1500 unsophisti-
cated human beings, including men, women, chil-
dren, and babies in arms, only a fraction of whom
actually enjoy the inestimable privilege of “ suing
and being sued.” Setting down the average prac-
titioner's income at £5OO, which, counting the
tritons with the minnows, is probably rather
under than over the mark, we arrive at a sum of
something like £lOO,OOO annually wasted within
the colony on lawyers’ fees alone. And
since the item “ office fees ” is acknowledged bjr
the Treasury to amount to £2O 000 at any ratot
while the other incidental expenses of setting the
law in motion—in the shape of witnesses’ expenses,
clerical work, and the like-cannot le much less
than one-third of the net gains of the legal frater-
nity, it follows that about 103. per head of the total
population is annually disbursed from private
sources on the pursuit of what is facetiously
termed "justice,” over and above the publio ex-
penditure on the maintenance of the various
judicial departments.
The recent elevation of Mr. Kerferd to the
Victorian Supreme Court Bench points again to
that defeet in Colonial Constitutions which
enables Ministers to practically appoint themselves
to positions which should be rewards for distin-
guished merit rather than spoils to be grabbed by
the least scrupulous of politicians. Each of the
Colonial Supreme Court Bench< s can Show in-
stances of this abuse. Disappointed politicians
and wooden-headed lawyers have too frequently
obtained the places which they are quite incap-
able of filling, and rather than peipetuate the pre-
sent system it would be well to adopt the Ameri-
can precedent of chocsing the Judges by ballot of
the electors. In connection with the Kerferd ap-
pointment it is as well to remember that when C.
E. Jones was expelled from the Victorian As-
sembly for accepting a bribe of £lOO from a Con-
servative bribery caucus, the cheque for the
amount bore the signature of the recently-
appointed judge. Mucn indignation was expressed
at the time because the same punishment was not
served out to both parties to the transaction. New
the difference of treatment appears in a still more
revolting light. Jones is expelled; Kerferd is
made a censor morum, elevated to the Bench. A
Daniel come to judgment I
LAY OF THE LATEST (N.S.W.) MINSTREL.
The day was long, the night was hot,
The subject old, the minstrel not;
His withered cheek and tresses grey
Were waitiug till a future day,
And, therefore, he would tune his rhyme
To topics of the present time.
He wished alike to sing of wars,
Of Carington or Soudan scars,
Of poll-taxation on Chinese,
Of Christianising the Burmese,
And turning them from idols dumb
To worship at the shrine of Rum,
And teach them, for a race decayed,
There’s nothing like the opium trade.
With equal joy he tuned his song
To great small men he lived among,
To sing the praise of each worn hack
That forms the team of old Bir Jack—
That veteran whose three score and ten
Have taught him to dispense with men,
And harness up with ropes of sand.
To give us one more “ jib ” on land;
To deafen us with Dan’i’s jaw,
And muddle things with Simpson’s law;
Then for fiaaDCB he nimbly turns.
To save our “ tick ” by Mr. Burns,
Who’ll raise, by cute iinancial fibs,
The million gaily spent by Dibbs,
And fix the money that he lacks
By piling on some noxious tax,
Which he can't get to save his soul
Without the universal howl—
“ Rig up, at once, the gallows frame,
And take them back from whence they oame.”
Now to the Post we turn our eyes,
And stare and stare in mute surprise;
There, where the State demands a man,
We find instead no less than Dan.,
Whose legislative might, ’tis feared,
Is for the most part in his beard;
Who’ll hold the job he’s so long craved
Unless some foe should get him shaved;
Who’ll toast with cheers our gracious Quean,
Then change the postmen’s coats to green.
Bring out the wine-cask, draw the bung I
The youth are to be trained by Young 1
Of knowledge let him sow the seed,
’Tis hoped that thus he’ll learn to read;
Concerned with schools both day and night,
Perhaps, like Dan., he’ll learn to write;
He'll have six hundred “ thou.” to spend
On schools and teachers without end.
And tell us, as each bell is rung,
“ Alt’s going on well, (signed) J. Young."
Where are the shapes we knew of yore ?
Where Alick’s schemes or Dailey’s roar ?
Are there no speeches to be had
But Varney’s praises of bis dad ?
Are we to fire out Slattery too,
To put up with his partner Loo ?
Is the Protection fad he led,
Now he’s got office, reckoned dead ?
Is what he urged through thick and thin
A hollow mockery when he’s “ in ”?
Forbid it Sullivan, and shout,
“ He’s sold us—now the murder's out;
And, ye Protectionists, take note,
And when he stands know how to vote.”
And where’s the North Shore bridge, Parkes,
pray.
You built in air the other day ?
And how are thiDgs now underground—
For we don’t hear you make a sound ?
What dynamite have you in store
To blow Jack to Another Shore ?
We cannot hear your workmen's picks,
And yet we thought in eighty-six
You would have told us, erejtoo late,
How best to save this ruined State.
What! Have you not a word to say
When Servioe, Berry, sail away
To mingle in the Federal fray,
And can t you show us your strong suit
With Dailey, Stuart, both en route?
Just fancy four such noodles seen
Where, full of glory, you have been!
Arise, ye Goths, and glut your ire,
While patriots one by one retire,
And bankrupt Treasurers won't retrench;
Their Kerferds, on the Supreme Bench,
We’re safe, because, when time shall come,
We’ve but to choose ’twixt Loo and Tom:
And should our lov&d Shepherd Smith
(The hardest nut Dibbs e’er fooled with)
Try on the New South Wales Bank dance
Before such judges of finance,
No matter how the Banks may nudge,
We’re safe, for—we’ve a most just judge.
Ob, Vaughn, we take thy shortened spell ”
To contrast with a name loved well!
Oh, Garrard, how, we’d like to know,
Got'Bt thou a fat portfolio?
And is't for fear Jack Winter brings
Upon the Lands we’re got a Spring ?
1 f so, farewell, we end the strain 1
We think we’ll go and pray for rain.
Ellen vale, Townsville, Aug. 18,1885.
Gentlembn,— l have much pleasure In advising
you that 1 have used St. Jacob’s Oil in my family
for sore throat and rheumatic pains with great
success, and consider it one of the best remedies
ever put before the public. I have also used it
upon my poultry for croup and throat disorders,
and have always found it give immediate relief.
1 would recommend every poultry farmer to try
it, and they will find that their coops, instead of
being empty, will be filled with strong, healthy
poultry.—Yours faithfully,
C. WELLINGTON.
(Note.—A drench of from two to five drops Bt.
Jacob's Oil, diluted with warm water, is a really
simple, reliable, and harmless remedy for any in-
ternal dis jrders of poultry. We believe Mr. Wel-
lington s success has been almost phenomenal,
whilst some of his neighbours have suffered very
heavy lotses.)
Bodily comfort is the accompaniment of health-
ful vigour, and it will return when Wolfe's
Schnapps is employed.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-streat
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution than Wolfe's
Schnapps. _


BRIEF MENTION.
In Madagascar a lumbered dead drunk
is fined seven oxen and 28s. That is why the pro-
fane bullock-puncher does not flourish in Mada-
gascar.
Lord Carington shook hands with all the
visitors to Government House on the 31st Decem-
ber. Will the Jernil not do a grovel to him on
account of this performance.
A little Melbourne paper innocently
asks: “ How long do donkeys live ? ” We shall
hot be able to answer that question correctly
until the editor of that little paper is dead.
“ England protects,” says Lord Salisbury,
"for the benefit of the natives.” This may be
perfectly true, but the benefit is not attained in
this world, unless rum-poisoning is considered
beneficial.
One of the creamiest jokes in a certain
pantomime now running in Sydney turns on the
humorous subject of the smallpox. This is the
gifted author’s idea of giving the public some-
thing nice and " catchy.”
The Sydney Echo cannot understand why
pantomimes exist, for it alleges they neither in-
terest nor amuse either young or old. lorpre-
eisely similar reasons, we are at a loss to account
for the existence of the Sydney Echo.
A Southern paper is in ecstacies over a
local cow which troops round by the aid of a
wooden leg. Wonder wbat the Southerners would
say if they came up to Woolloomooloo and caught
Bight of our dairy oowa with iron tails ?
The Melbourne Herald clamours to know
what the Geographical Society’s New Guinea ex-
pedition has done for its “screw.” There’s ingrati-
tude! Hasn’t it sent the name of a Victorian
Premier floating down to posterity on the pellucid
bosom of a drain.
“ Your trams are nothing to ours,” said a
Sydney visitor to his Melbourne friend, the other
day “ Give us time,” replied the latter; “we are
only making a beginning. One of our trams
killed a little girl last week. You can’t expect
everything in a day.”
An exchange says;—“Condition of stock ’
Pat. and inability, result of laziness to rear a leg.’:
That’s why all our rump steaks are cut off the
neck. Cattle which arrive in Sydney never seem
to have been able to rear a leg. Not the top end
of the back ones any way.
The Prince of Wales is said to be exceed-
ingly elever in concealing his political ideas. The
Jernil also applauds Lord Carington for his skill
in concealing his oratorical ability. Similarly we
have always applauded the Jernil men for their
ALLEGED ECLIPSE VISIBLE IN ENGLAND.
CHAMBERLAIN AND GLADSTONE.
marvellous power of concealing their journalistic
ability.
We often hear of poor children “ crying
out for bread.” That is a sorrowful state of
things to discuss over a hot roll, heaven knows I
But at the last Lord Mayor’s banquet, in London,
a similar wail was raised by the piump aldermen.
After the 15fch eourse the bread ran short. An
alderman vainly seeking the staff of life must
be a pitiable speotacle.
It was after the fall of the Dibbs Adminis-
tration. The Burrowa people put it down to the
credit of Tom Slattery. “ How do you feel, old
man?” “Lazarus-like.” “ Lazarus-like I” “Why,
yes, just as if I had been licked by dogs.” Were
the Burrowa people right, we would raise the
ttiflies from the Devonshire-street Cemetery to
return Tom for a metropolitan constituency.
Cholera may be transmitted by a kiss.
Young men, take note. Yet you may never collar
her if you don’t kiss. Well, take the chances.
“There’s muckle bliss in ae fond kiss.” There’s
no joy in cholera, but it’s no use showing choler
•bout the fact. The worst kind of cholera is the
blue-coated coliarer. Soap can overcome the
first, but nothing less than sugar will square the
second.
An American exchange quotes a cynical
observer who says that the main idea of English
Journalism seems to be to say everything in the
dullest poßStble way, and the main idea of Ameri-
can journalism seems to be to say nothing in the
smartest possible way. To which we might add
.that the main object of Sydney daily journalism is
to say nothing in the dullest manner possible. The
success attained is phenomenal.
The Pall Mall Gazette meets the
attempt to discredit the’ “ Bevelations ” on the
score of the connection of Mr. Stead, by pointing
out that there were 57 columns of closely printed
matter in the “ Maiden Tribute,” and that three
columns cover the whole ground on which the
proseeutien was based. There, therefore, remain
unchallenged 54 columns of imputations against
the practices of English society.
La Lantern® says: “Thereis a great deal
Of red tape in the French Army. It took a French
soldier, who was reported to be dead, five years to
prove that he was alive.” That’s nothing. We
have just heard of a man who has come to Sydney
to scalp the whole of the General Registry Office
tape-jostlers, because, although he purchased, and
paid for some land in 1874 he has neither received
bis deed nor any explanation of the dejay. Wonder
% What’s his hurry ?
Here’s a ray of hope for Australian
.litterateurs at last. Lord Carington’s off-side
Wheeler in his coaching team is called Mark Twain.
Who knows but Lady Carington may yet call her
pet erow Sladen. in honour of the sweet singer of
{he Yarra, and His Exoellenoy may immortalise
Granny’s bantling by calling his favourite poodle
Echo. Now then, Daniel, go round with the hat
once more, and rake in enough chips to clean
those empty jam-pots and sardine-tins off the
grave of Henry Kendall.
The Ballarat Courier devotes a special
par to noting the fact that 2500 persons passed out
of the Academy in seven minutes on the night of
Holloway’s performance of “The Ring of Iron.”
Mr. Holloway took the time with a stop-watch.
We see nothing calling for special mention in the
circumstance. We have often seen that sort of
thing here. During a five minutes’ wait half the
audience have made their exit to see a man, got
back in their place before the curtain went up, and
no froth on any lips either. We are quick at sur-
rounding the enemy.
Anything seems to be good enough, in the
opinion of those outside, for persons in the Bene-
volent Asylum. For instance, a letter appeared
in the Melbourne AGS the other day, asking con-
tributions to a fund now being raised “ for the
purpose of purchasing a small harmonium to be
used in the Ovens Benevolent Asylum.” The
writer goes on to state confidently that “it will be
the means of cheering the poor aged inmates.” As
though a harmonium ever cheered anything yet I
We would not send one to a Home for Stray
Dogs—unless we wanted to kill them.
“All railway trains in ;New South Wales
are now run with unlocked doors.” Thus a sar-
castic country contemporary. But be is wrong.
They are run with engines. Any country editor
who doubts this fact can, by a visit to the depot,
prove the truth of our assertion. The statement
that some suburban trains are hauled along tho
track by th a ghosts of tired hearse horses is untrue.
It is a statement which, like a lady’s bustle, is
fiction founded on very little fact. Some people
are never satisfied unless they are rushing along
at the rate of ten or twelve miles an hour.
An English paper says that two races of
people will soon be extinct, the Maoris and the Lap-
landers. This is a hint for showmen to take time
by the forelock, and get good specimens of both
races before it is too late. We are not much
affected by what becomes of the Laplanders, but
we are sorry for the Maoris, who, with the Zulus,
are perhaps the finest savages extant. But rum
was too much for them. They are not the only
savages it has nearly wiped out. It almost de-
populated Jamberoo and Bungaree, and came
within an ace of making Queanbeyan a home for
the dingo and the wombat till the Blue Ribbon
Army arrived there.
A certain Sydney man has been for some
time despoiled of his paper, which was regulariy
removed each morning. The newsman swore by
the ghosts of his dead ancestors that he left the
paper, which he fired at the front door at about
2 o’clock a.m. Next day he got the newsman to
hook the paper on a twine which depended from
his bedroom window, and as the runner went his
way the victim took his station at the sash above.
Presently came a neighbour, and, opening the gate
with a confidence gained by much practice, he
stooped for the paper, which the man above jerked
outward and upward with sudden viciousness,
and the annexer walked out and slammed the gate
with the air of a man who has been robbed of his
Just and legal right.
Several persons saw what they oalled a
bunyip near the bathing ground at Williamstown
(Vie), the other night. It was, they say, lying
peaaefully on its side beside a bar of rock. The
noiße they made aroused it, and it got up and
walked slowly and with dignity into the water.
They describe it as “ a large black moving mass,
with a pair of Un-like protuberances on either
side/' The moon was full at the time. So was, let
us say, the Bunyip. It is only just to add, how-
ever, that one of the town councillors of Williams-
town is in the habit of going down to the beach in
his bathing-suit after dark to compose phillipics
against the Mayor and recite them, after the
fashion of Demosthenes, by the sounding sea.
Perhaps the “fin-like protuberances’ they saw
were his ears.
“ I am so glad that the dear man, instead
of being drunk this Christmas, has got Salvation,
and—hallelujah— toe have aot Ms guinea." There
is no need to acknowledge this extract, but one
paper in the country is outspoken enough to own
its joy at securing the salvation of souls, and its
delight at capturing the spare “sugar” of the
‘ saved.”—
Part with Satan and his ways,
Join us, sing our cheerful lays,
Hear us when we thump the drum,
Thumping till the Kingdom Come;
Bid ye of the olden leaven,
Join with us en route for heaven;
Part with earthly gain—’tis loss;
And —part to us, we love the dross.
Krishmish comes but once a year, and of
coursh a few small “componadrunks” or typo-
graphical errors are excusable, but the following
muddle from the Sydney Evening News is justa
trifle too much of a good thing, and clearly
shows what a Sheol of a time they had in Market-
street this season:—“The Vossiche Zietung re-
minds its readers that 17,400, of whom over 5000
were French, chiefly Huguenot exiles, on account
of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Thus
nearly every third person to be met of candy, in
which are live birds. The bride is to in Berlin was
a Frenchman. We hear from New York that the
latest novelty in two centuries ago the population
of Berlin that city is a wedding cake surmounted
with a tower break the artificial cage with a tiny
hammer and liberate the birds—an act of grace she
can well afford to perform after making sure of
her husband.” “Ash orl ri’. Shem mup agon ole
f’ler. Heresh t’ th’ free enlighshend presh ’f
colny.”
fIIHBAT RB ROYAL.
S Under the management of
Messrs. WiiiiiXAHSOW. Gabnbu and McBGBOVI.
Lessee, Mr. 3. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING, at a quarter to 8,
THE MUST GORGEOUS PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
An Entirely New Version of the Old Dairy Story,
CINDERELLA,
HER SISTERS, HER SORROWS,
and
HER LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
THE FAIRY°GODMOTHER
who wouldn’t let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER.
Admission : Dress Circle. 53.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. D’Arey Stanfield.
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening,
The Great Drury Lane Comic Christmas
Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE.
MOTHER GOOSE.
MOTHER GOOSE
And the Enchanted Beauty,
including a Grand Transformation Scene,
and Harlequinade by superior artistes.
10 MECHANICAL CHANGES!
THE GORGEOUS and COSTLY COSTUMESI
TWENTY SPLENDID NEW SCENES!
The great procession of 35 Handsome Ladies.
New and Novel Lime-light Effects.
All the newest and original music specially
arranged by Mr. G. Rivera Allpress.
Original and Unique Properties.
For further and full particulars of cast, &c„ see
future advertisements and bills
Special Engagement of Miss IDA 03B0RNE,
from the Theatre Royal (by kind permission of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrave).
Miss EMILY BEAUMONT, and many other
artistes, tor this production.
Million Prices—stalls, 3s ; Parquette, 35.: Gallery,
ONE SHILLING. A few reserved seats at Nichol-
son’s, 4s. Box plan now open,
H. TREVOR AH, Business Manager.
a W O P K~ii a HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
Messrs. E. MAJERONI and W. J. WILSON.
CONTINUED SUCCE33
of
MAJERONI & WILSO N’S D R A MATIC COMPANY
in
ACROSS THE CONTINENT
ACROSS THE CONTINENT.
Grand Reception of JOHN L. HALL
as
KNOCK-ME-DOWN JOHNNY.
NEW SCENERY BY MR. A. CLINT.
Startling and thrilling sensations,
The Murder in the Divel The Bar-room Seen?!
THE FIGHT ON THE PRAIRIE !
The Pacific Railway on Rocky Mountains !
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 335 George-street. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, George-street.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
£SL Sole Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hiscocks
RETURN HOME I RETURN HOME !
of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Speciality Union.
TO-NIGHT, and Every Evening, the
BLACK PANTOMIME, HARLEQUIN.
BLACK “ HIDE ” SUSAN and her PLAIN BILL.
Entirely Now First Part, New Songs, Refrains,
Jokes, Anecdotes, &c., and the Greatest Minstrel
First Part Finale ever produced.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS,
of the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
KING COCKATOO
KING COCKATOO
KING COCKATOO,
or
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
A DAME WOODYEAR’S
ELEGTIIG CIRCUS
AND
GREAT LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM.
BBLMORE PARK, EVERY EVENING.
Million Prices. Million Prices.
PIT,'ONE SHILLING; Dress Circle, 35.; Stalls, Ss.
MARCUS SEBASTIAN,
MONARCH OF THE AIR !
Every Evening at 8.35.
Saturday, January 9th, GRAND MATINEE.
Special prices for children—Pit, 6d.; Stalls, Is.;
Chairs, Is. 6d.
ROBT. LOVE, Agent.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager Harry Lynch.
ON TOUR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS, N.S.W.
Now visiting
NOWRA, KIAMA, and WOLLONGONG.
“ The great houses attracted at Bombala, Bega,
Cooma, &c, during the past three weeks has
proved unprecedented in the annals of amuse-
ments in those places.”
Admission, as usual, 45., 3i.. and 3s. Doors open
at 7, overture 8.
rj\
0 ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &0.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including “ Stage,” “ Theatre,” “ Topical Times,
“Dramatic Beview,” “Bat,” &0., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place. Cellins-street, Melbourne.
DRAMATIC.— Wanted, Ladies and Gentlemen
of the Dramatic Profession for a tour in
Tasmania. Apply Geo. R. Melville, P. 0., Laun-
ceston.
TO MANAGERS, TRAVELLING COM-
PANIES, &c.
TO LET.— The CLIFTON PUBLIC HALL,
situated at CliftOD. Daily communication
with Wollongong and Sydney.
Dimensions of Hall-70ft. x 30ft.
„ Stage—l4ft. x 35ft.
Scenery, Side Wings, and all such requisites.
W. MCLAREN
Hon. Sec.
NOTICE,
To the thief or thieves who have bean taking my
papers for the last month.
GIVE me your address, and I will pay a
quarter's subscription for you.
WILLIAM POOLE,
Ballarie Station.
Ist January, 1886.
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney, January 5 18(6.
mSNDEItS for PUBLIO WORKS and BUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of whioh
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tender!
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to asoept
the lowest or any tender.
JACOB GARRARD.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 29th December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of
Public School Buildings at Parramatta East.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for School Buildings,
Parramatta East Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m , on Wed-
nesday, the 13th January, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to aoeept the
lowest ©r any tender.
J. H. YOUNG.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREEI
NO MORE FEVERS.
THE “ BUDGEREE ” DISINFECTANT is the
most wonderful germ-kilter and fever-
destroyer known, and no household should be
without it, as it instantly kills all bad smells arising
from closets, bad drains, &c.
Sold at all chemists and grocers.
Depot:
JAMES C. STEEL,
Bulletin-lane,
Lower Pitt-street.
C
ARINGTON MEWS,
158 Phillip Street,
LIVERY, BAIT, and COMMISSION STABLFS.
Wedding Orders punctually attended to.
Four-in-hand Brakes, Landaus, Buggies, and
Saddle Horses on hire at the shortest notice.
J. BOOTH & CO.,
Proprietors.
PRANG’S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS BATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
aPlllsi
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
4E4 GEORGE STREET.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Faq,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
|j||ABHOOP. RESTORED t
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
3 forth. CUREof NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, die.. hae at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wnioh, fee
the sake of stiffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address*
irith self-addressed stamped envelops— .*
Or. E. A. CI.AHkE, P.O. Box SM, Sydney.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TffS ROYAL—** Cinderella P. 8
Opera House— “ Across the Continent ”
Alhambra— “ King Cockatoo ” ~
Olympic— “ Mother Goose” ><
Academy op Music—Federal Minstrels.... „
At the Royal, “ Cinderella” is drawing
houses composed largely of babies in arms. Next
to the mistake of writing “ Cinderella ” at all was
the blunder of choosing poetry as the mould in
which to recast the old story. Of course the authors
and adapters of pantomime are entitled to a wide
margin when the stunidity they have to display is
exceptional. But they have no excuse at all—ex *
cept the very natural one of inability to avoid it—
for settling down so resolutely in the domain of
imbecility and obtaining a monopoly of the land.
We have travelled much among savage races.
The New Zealanders and some of the Indian Hill
tribes express their grief in low weird chants. It
is a sort of rhythmical sorrow, and, even on
strangers, has a harrowing effect. While admit-
ting that unon us these wails had a peculiarly de-
pressing effect, devotion to truth compels us to
say that reading through the pantomime of “ Cin-
derella ” has called up old memories of despair
which the savage lament could never reach. A
sound system may pull us through, but ’twill re-
quire time and care.
* * »
It is only fair to the author and adapter—
they are equally scintillating—to give a few of the
gems that make children cry and old people glare
at one another with a callous savagery that shows
how unwise it would be to repeal the law pro-
hibiting the carrying of weapons more deadly
than umbrellas. By the way, it is suggestive that
the author’s name (Doyle) is given, but not the
localiser’s. Perhaps it sas well. Doyle is in Lon-
don, and few men care to travel across the globe
for revenge. Revenom. Time (Mr. Levison) and
the fairies are considering the subject for this
year’s pantomime. Various apparitions pass.
When that of Red Riding Hood appears, Time
chirrups:—
“ Red Riding Hood, that took her granny food,
We had last year. It's no red riding-good.”
Beauty and the Beast pass, when Chronos gets
in:—
“ Beauty and the Beast I That’s quite too-tooty.
We’ve too much of the professional beauty;
The modern beast’s the masher, and quite
brutey.”
When Cinderella comes we get :
“ Oh, Cinderella I Childhood’s kitchen-martyr,
Tour deed now has an aim—the Baron’s darter ;
That slippery girl’s the maiden for your money,
But try, for once, to make her story funny.”
To do him justice, Doyle tries, and it is scarcely
fair to condemn him till we learn what he had to
eat before starting, or whether he wrote fasting.
We cannot afford, however, to be so charitable
towards the adapters, considering the uncontra-
dioted rumour that it was Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove themselves-assisted, of course, by
Goodman—who gave us the local version. And
this is what is flung at middle-aged colonists who
have Kendall on their shelves while Brunton
Stephens is still alive :
“ Like G. R. Dibbs, I’m a regular sticker.
Your pari c(e)s worse than your bite—l’ll be your
licker.”
And—
“ His subjects to sedition I would stir
And pluDge the nation into civil wirr.”
But there’s worse behind:—
“ Come, let’s be off. the pack I see in view.
And I don’t care for hunting, hunter-noo."
“ No—oh, I could tear my hair,
| This is a most tear-hair-ible affair.”
“ Your dancing-pumps sixteens, sixteens? you’re
wrong;
Oh de colong, too. Oh! do g'long.”
“ A grate shame ’tis you should in cinders be,
A desc(.i)nd(er)ant of a noble familee.”
• * *
The foregoing are a few, and a few only,
of the quaint conceits 'culled at random from this
remarkable work—which can be safely recom-
mended to be read over the dead who. in life
dreaded beiog buried alive. If it won’t make
them sit up and assault the undertaker it is be-
cause decomposition has set in. But it is time to
say something of the characters. Miss Nellie
Stewart is Cinderella—for the first few nights it
was feared’.that the cruel custom which forced
her while playing in the “Mikado” to turn her
toes in and her elbows out would have seriously
affected her success in pantomime. Whether she
uses while at rest any mechanical apparatus
for restoring her feet to their normal
position and remedying the stralusm she
was obliged to adopt in the opera, we
are unable to say. The march of surgical
science has been so marked of late that even a
club foot can be made to assume the appearance
of respectability and usefulness; while men’s
varicose veins and goitre can be rendered attrac-
tive. But, whatever the remedy, Nellie has re-
covered all her former abandon and throws an
amount of pungency iinto her voice, and anima-
tion into her legs, that suggests how pleasant it is
to listen to the former while out of the latters’
range. We avoid, as a rule, any allusion to legs,
but sometimes they are forced into such promi-
nence that it would be mere prudery to ignore
them. This is the case with the Prince’s (Miss
Docy Stewart’s) lower limbs. Year by year they
are increasing in bulk while preserving a mature
shapeliness which fills the front rows of the stalls
with bald-headed mon and induces the grand-
fathers in the circle to hire opera-glasses. Eheu
fugacesl How the years have gone since those
appendages seemed to us like lightnning-rods,
while now —But we must proceed. Greville
re-appears as Clorinda, one of poor Cinderella’s
sour sisters. But it iB as a fisherman at the junc-
tion of the Saltwater River and the Yarra that
he appeared to best advantage. We saw him
squatted there one Wednesday evening long ago.
He had been since Monday and was running short
of bait. The fish there will miss him. It is singu-
lar how quickly these creatures learn to know the
men who are their best friends—those who supply
them with the daintiest food, allow them to suck
at; it at their leisure, and spit out the hook
when they’re done. Farther on in that mem-
orable night we saw Greville going towards
Richmond with a hamper of fish, but as
they seemed as if they’d travelled a long
wa»y by rail, and as he had passed the fisu
market on his way, we kept our own counsel. As
Clorinda, his acting was graceful and refined,
especially when he pulled a couple of strings in
front, which caused some erratic conduct in
his. “Improver,” and filled the house with culti-
vated mirth.
. * * *
There are demons in the piece. Mr. Ben-
ham is the chief. His business lay mostly just in
front of the. footlights, but his six subordinates
kept discreetly at the back. When you saw their
legs you didn't wonder at their prudence in not
venturing to take any liberties with them, and
avoiding a catastrophe by keeping still. Benham,
on the other hand, was a well-favoured fiend with
a tiaunch which it was difficult to associate with
villainy tempered by an occasional stew. He was
just the sort of devil who would be liable to repent
the first ohanoe he got, and “jump” the most
Binfttl end of a pen'itenvform. There are many
other people with whom we shall deal by-and-bye.
The remembrance of the harlequinade chil.s us.
We never knew befqre why Chinamen were so
anxious to gp hoine when they’d made enough
money t > bring their relations’ bones with them.
But the longing to escape from countries where
such performances are looked upon as amuse-
ments explains all. If only an audience of Sou-
danese could be induced to witness the Royal
harlequinade, not another shot would require to
be fired. Up to 10 o clock on Saturday night last
we*Were blithe and happy. Now Bit why go on ?
Kirby has been hanging round our lodgings all
wnminir wiih a measuring-tape and a hoarse.
‘ Baffled ” was superseded on Saturday
night at Sydney Opera House by “ Across the
Continent.” Tbe former piece lacked incident, the
latter abounds therewith. There are more mur-
ders put through inside three hours than Sullivan
accomplished in the same number of months.
There is a surfeit of slaughter and an intense dis-
regard of possibilities everywhere apparent in the
piece. The prompter had rather a larger share in
the representation than usually falls to his lot,
but he did his duty well. The melodrama will run
a week.
•» » e
“ Knock-me-down Johnny” was the tak-
ing title J. L. Hall assumed. With a hat of pecu-
liar formation resembling somewhat a nail can
which has been run over by a tram car, and a coat
which had suffered severely in a Grroco-Roman
match with Time, Johnny had not much claim
upon the tailors of to-day. His uniform and his
pugnacity, and his peculiarly fetching facial ex-
pression, gave him a hold on the audience which
he kept till the finish. Miss Jenny Gwynne was
a dolorous Dolores, and her part of an Italian
hurdy-gurdy man’s daughter who is caught in the
toils of love, is as well played as such a sickly part
could be. The Louise Goodwin of Maggie Knight
was a pleasing pourtrayal of the author's concep-
tion of the gentle Louise. Metcalfe, Rodney, and
Power were, as usual, up to the standard required
of them by the public, and Douglas and Docy
Mainwaring are eommendably careful in their
parts. Of the remainder of the cast there is none
who calls for special mention. The scenery by
Clint is good.
** # *
The classic Sydney Olympic continues to
rejoice in a succession of hilarious and profitable
houses. A. few nights’ practice has enabled the scene
shifters to reel out the transformations in one lot,
instead of as formerly, adopting the instalment
system, which system, we might remark, does not
show to advantage when applied to gorgeous and
startling transformations. One part of the enter-
ment particularly takes our fancy. >t is near the
close of the second act when various views more
or less symbolical in design, are with due delibera-
tions unrolled. Most artists are so painfully pre-
cise in their work that, like some theatre cos-
tumes, the picture leaves nothing to the imagina-
tion. This is not the case with the artist who
dabbed colour on these views. One of them puz-
zled us considerably. A gentleman on our right
professed to believe it to be a representation of
“ the world in clear ether sailing.” We cannot ac-
cept this interpretation, and are undecided
whether to regard it as being a picture of a Christ-
mas pudding in a willow-pattern dish, or a carica-
ture sketch of John Lucas swimming in DaOing
Harbour. The man who painted it should be
asked to design a new set of carvings for tbe
Sydney Post Office.
* * 9
Tbe choruses go with easy smoothness,
and the “ Fairies, awake ” is vocally a yellow-
centred daisy. Miss Ida Osborne lives in an at-
mosphere of encore, and Emily Fox captures the
chickens roosting on the gallery perches and else-
where. We forgot to refer last week to Harry
Sullivan, who plays the nurse. His business is
pretty well up to the mark, until he starts to sing
about his selling carrots and parsnips in Paddy’s
Market on Saturday night. As he describes bis
triumphs in trading greenstuff bis audience seem
to wish that be would restrict himself to that oc-
cupation. His dancing is appropriate to the part
of the aged nurse—he dances like an old woman.
# * *
The dancing is not the least interesting
part of the show to those who can appreciate the
music of motion. The chief burden of this part of
the entertainment falls upon Dot Read and Edith
Wilson, who display their sgility and beauty with
lavish generosity, i heir performance is almost
biblical, for their appearanca is a whole chapter of
the Book of Revelations.
* * *
The Pantomime is proving a Mascotte for
Messrs. Raphael and Cohen. Hundreds of persons
are turned from the doors every night—chiefly
after the affair is over.
»# m »
The enforcement of the regulations against
overcrowding of Sydney theatres will not press
least heavily on the Academy of Music, for there
the management are frequently prone to let fall
the briny tokens of grief as they refuse the wel-
come florins or the more modest “bobs.” The
Minstrels can always be relied upon to draw
the Sydneyites, but they have an especial attrac-
tion for the rustics who laugh at and applaud
everything with agricultural and impartial effu-
siveness. Indeed,if a back-blocker comes down to
Sydney for a spell and fails on his return to retail
the latest about’Orris Bent he is naturally looked
upon with equal proportions of pity and con-
tempt.
* * *
The Minstrel programme is“multiversantly
meritorious” ana all antediluvian antiquities and
“fossilised funnyisms” have been expurgated
with consistent carefulness. It is a work of supe-
rerogation to describe what one-half of the city
has hoard, and the other half is waiting to hear.
The first half of the programme, gela vasam dire,
consists of minstrelsy of the usual Federal order,
and a burlesque called a pantomime, or something
of the sort, precedes the final descent of the drop-
scene. (N.8.-We are never going to talk of the
“rag” again.) Between these two extremes,
w. B. Warner warbles with much effect, and
E. C. Dunbar puts in his chief work. By the way,
we would not positively welter in a wilderness of
cordiac desolation if he were to give it a rest with
the Piffero business; this will always be interest-
ing to the ladies, for “he has such fine limbs,
dear,” and looks so well in the costume; but,
otherwise, tbe business is not of a soul-inspiriug
order. In the final harlequinade Horace Bent is
the Columbine, and his dancing in that character
is a new revelation to theatre goers.
# * &
Tbe Alhambra, was crowded again on
Saturday night. There is no change in the pro-
gramme, and tbe extravaganza of King Cockatoo
having received some necessary pruning runs
with satisfactory smoothness. Matlock warbled
the “Sad sea waves” in his peculiarly pathetic
manner, and, though he omitted to mention what
the sad sea waves, the audience did not exhibit
sufficient curiosity to make any searching enquiry.
Minnie Hope, whose popularity is duo as much to
her face and physique as to any vocal powers she
possesses, rendered “ I love her so ” with the
necessary saccharine fervour. Millie Herbert is
the biggest fayourite in the Alhambra. She is a
very big favourite—about 2uolb. of favourite.
Her voice is as sweet as our best girl’s whisper
when we sit round loose and tell har funny stories
in the shade of the kitchen chimney. Barrington
and Ryan are qualified successes, and the iveilson
youngsters do a fairly good turn. They want a
few months coaching by some actor who could
teach them to be a little less mechanical in their
movements and less automatic in their actions.
The Cottiers are doing good business at
the Protestant Hall, and with a company of “25
charming ladies and gentlemen” (see programme)
introduce more mirth into the body of the ball
than the audience can contain, and laughter rip-
ples rolls, and swells in varied volume during
the progress of the entertainment. The “Cottiers’
Saturday Night” is as popular as any Knight in
the city.
•« * «
The Empsons are still showing at the
new Oddfellows’ Hall. During the week they
have improved their entertainment, and better
audiences testify their approval of the change.
** « *
The musical critic of one of the Sydney
Sunday papers gives Sir Hercules Robinson the
following knock:—“But why resuscitate that
arrant piece of rubbish ‘Unfurl the Flag,’which
is no credit to Sir Hercules Robinson, who has at-
tached his name to it and pretentiously calls it the
Australian Hymn? Better leave it out Miss. Sir
Hercules Robinson will never earn his living by
writing songs. It was written three years ago,
and was nearly forgotten till you brought it to
our notice again.” This would be very rough on
Sir Hercules if he ever intended trying to earn
his hash by song writing. As. however, the
rhyme was perpetrated by the priggish Sir
William, Robinson, the critic is carefully barking
up the wrong tree.
*• * * *
According to the Sydney D.T., Mr. J. H.
Rainford’s Saturday afternoon concerts are held
on Sunday. Last Sunday witnessed the opening
show. Miss Annie Shraeder and Messrs. Gilpin,
Phillips, and Rainford filled the bill. Allpresi's
orchestra made sweet music for the vocalists, and
played with its usual ability various selections
from the operas.
** * *
Herr Kuster’s entertainment, at the Op9ra
House, on Sunday evening, was well attended,
hhd a large and appreciative audience showed
their entire approval of the programme, by de-
manding the repetition of nearly every item.”
(See morning papers.)
** * »
Harry Lynch and his crowd are walizing
along through the Illawarra district, after having
soent a merry Christmas in the South Coast towns.
WollongoDg, where they play in a few days, used
not to be a first; rate show-town. The first time
we were there we strolled round to the School of
Arts to see the performance of a “gigantic com-
bination,” and were presented with a dress-circie
pass in consideration of our going up the town
for sixpenny worth of rum and a box of sardines.
Besides ourself, there was one person in the cTc'e
and two in the gallery, but these latter were
lovers who had come there because they wished
to be alone and unobserved. But with the advent
of the Lynch Family things have changed, and we
are told that front seats at their show will be as
scarce as common-sense in tho local borough
Councils.
** 8 *
A week or two back we commented on a
strange aDd wonderful theatrical item that
appeared in a Melbourne weekly. Speaking of
the death of Ellen Terry's husband—Charles Kelly
—this well-informed organ added the staggering
intelligence that “ they say she is also married to
Watts, the artist.” English theatrical newß 13
largely affected here by writers who are miserab y
ignorant of their subject, and in Melbourne papers,
especially, you constantly discover evidence ot
this. Some item, taken from a “home” journal,
will be ridiculously misconstrued. Joe Eidred, it
may be remembered, came out here a year or two
back, and died shortly atter his arrival. Bet re
he left England, the Refsree had a par. to the
effect that Joe was taking a trip to Australia !o
“recover his lost voice,” or something of that
sort. A Melbourne paper fastened on this, and
announced that “ Mr. Eidred, the celebrated tenor,
is coming out,” &o , &c. The Melbourne genius
had never heard of Joe Eidred, but he, or she, or
it, made a dash at “ tenor ” on the strength of the
Referee's allusion to “ lost voice.” Poor
Joe, as a matter of fact, was a low comedian,
wbo made a speciality of Mieawber, and
used to take a scratch company round the
provinces. As regards Ellen Terry’s conjugal re-
lations, they have been explained times eut of
number in The Bulletin. The fair Ellen was
married to T. E. Watts, R.A. (he declined a baron-
etcy this year), when she was 16. They separated
almost immediately, the artist allowing bis wife
£3OO a year, on condition that she behaved herself.
AS was hardly surprising under the circumstances
—for the Watts alliance had been forced on her by
her family—the fair Ellen didn’t behave herself
in the strictest sense of the word. Living in se-
clusion, at a little village called Harpenden, Mrs.
Watts blessed somebody or another with three
children. It wasn't until the happy father had
left England, through money difficulties, that
poor Mr. Watts heard anything at all about his
wife’s offspring. Then he procured a divorce.
Ellen was 27 at the time—about 10 years ago now—
and she married Charles Kelly shortly afterwards
Some vague rumours of all this must have
reached the newspaper office whence comes the
information that “ they say she is also married to
Watts, the artist.”
** « #
The triumvirate have put on the “ Sleeping
Beauty” as their Xmas production at the Mel-
bourne Royal. The title of this work is not inap-
propriate. If there is no sleeping beauty among
the audience, there is, at any rate, a fair amount
of dozing loveliness during oae or two scones. A
man seated near us dropped into a letbargio
slumber early in the evening, but we didn’t blame
the pant, for that. Directly he gaped in his
dreams we recognised tne responsibility of rum
in bis case. Still, to make a “ plain, unvarnished
statement”—like Boucicault’s latest—we are
bound to admit that “The Sleeping Beauty, or
Harlequin Mother Goose, and the Seven Cham-
pions,” is a somewhat somnolent show. Of plot-
even pantomime plot—it possesses none. It is un-
enlivened by one catching melody, and the time-
honoured topical song is waited for in vain. It is
destitute of a spirit-stirring break-down. The
pantomime proper, in a word, is so very proper
that were it not for some grotesque musical en-
tertainments lugged in promiscuously by the
Raynor Brothers, and an acrobatic performance
altogether irrelevant to the scene where it is in-
troduced, the Grand Annual would be incontin-
ently damned. Not even the scenery could save
it from its fate.
* * *
Messrs. Gordon and Hennings have done
their work conscientiously throughout. Some
pictures of Adelaide, Hobart, Melbourne, and
“our harbour” are beautifully painted. Even
better works of art, but incongruous to the story,
are certain Turneresque views of Venice, leading
up to the transformation scene. Beauty, it ap-
pears, passes the gilded hours of the honeymoon
at Venice—hence these views. This is a departure
from fairy precedent, against which we must
respectfully protest. Pantomime princes and
princesses took themselves off to the realms of
everlasting bliss in the good old days, and never
ran the risk of rubbing shoulders with rich squat-
ters on the Rialto. But this is a commonplace
age. Cinderella, we suppose, is putting in her
wedding trip at Woolloomooloo.
* * *
Most of the performers deserve sympathy.
They have nothing funny to do or say provided
for them, and are at present, we should say, try-
ing to work up “ wneezes.” Mr. Harwood, as
King Glorio, is pretty certain to be diverting when
he has gagged his original lines out of recognition.
Redwood, too, may do something worthy of his
reputation. As for the ladies, their only hope lies
in the Introduction of fresh music. Miss Emma
Chambers, Constance Deorwyn, and Amy Horton
are quite capable of singing a pleasing ditty if
they get the ohance Miss Horton certainly did
get an encore for " I’m too shy,” which is, pre-
sumably, borrowed from the London music-halls.
This song- was the one little green oasis of “ spici-
ness” amid a desert of dreary dullness, and pil-
grims to the Royal hailed it with acclamation. Ail
the re9t of the songs and music appear to be
severely original The melodics are surely not
adaptations from popular works—would they
were. Borne of them, maybe, can trace back
their origin to a Moody and Bankey hymn hook,
but most of them must have been conceived iu
a fit of indigestion. However, if the music is had,
the band is merciful. During two long waits of
at least 15 minutes each, the orchestra was
deserted. The wily fiddlers feared the wrath of
the gods.
m 9 •
The only redeeming features of the show
are furnished by the Raynor Brothers and the
“marvellous Faust family.' We have said as
much before, we believe, but the statement will
bear repetition. Tbo Raynors rely solely upon
the business which has made iis mark in other
parts of the world. Theirs was always a finished
and clever entertainment, and, set off by the
sombre nature ot the surroundings at the Royal,
it sparkles more than ever. The Faust family
appear as aorobatic stat-ues, in whioh charactei 8
they are far more amusing than most of the
For continuation of Sundry Shows,** seepage 13
Oriental Gold.
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
B
EG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
MigsiW Jewellery!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s.
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladle?’ Choice Necklets, best' Amerioan Plate, 80s
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 0a each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Bets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faoed
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
13?“ These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. ~ .. ..£4OO
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ..£5OO
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levera .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
srade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 36 per oent.
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buokle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only haif sets, Is 6d, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each,
Gont’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 2s, 2s fid, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 4s fid, ss, and 5s fld eao
Very beet American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d each.
Gont’s Oriental Gold Matoh Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental G old Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, IQs,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooohes, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 01, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 5a od, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, Bs, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10a each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Noth the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKTCTR.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Lounging under our hotel Verandah, we
remarked to a friend that the member for the <3 s-
trict had a peculiarly well-developed pair of ears.
It was at this moment that a person intruded on
our privacy, who, we were told, was one of the
pioneers of civilisation in the hack country.
Known to every one as old Dih. DowDy, he now
lived on a small business in Bushville; either
oysters or newspapers and stationery—oysters, we
fanoy. His principal occupation, however, was
drinking and telling yarns. So long as the drinks
came in with regularity, so long would Downy’s
story last; whenever the intervals became lengthy,
“the old ooman was expectin’ ’im.” Importing
himself into our conversation at the word “ears,”
he started off without apology as folio ws: —’ E irs!
Don’t talk to me ’bout ears, you ort to ha’ Been
Jake Fodders’. Them was ears! ’Ow big wor
they, did you say ? Well, bigger nor a soup-plate,
an’ shaped more like a scooped water-meliag. No,
he never flapped’em; considerin’ we aint flapped
’em for thousands o’ years, ’ow oould he ? I don't
mind if I do—mine’s rum. We were drovin’ to-
gether; Jake an’ me did many a long trip. Wen
wateroles were oloslsh, Jake never filled no water-
bag. He jest put wool in his lugs -they ’eld a
matter o’ three quarts comfabiy. Cool, tool
You’d a thort it wor hiced. Yes, thankee-same
again. Jake wor a bit flash; ee wore hearrings;
sometimes they corned in ’andy. Sposin’ we was
facin’a darlin’ shower, Jake jest pinned ’is cars
acrost his face, and there hp wor as snug as snug.
You thinks I’m stretchin’ it, do yer? Well, you
aint seen nothin’, so, in course, you knows nothin’.
Another shingle off? Yes, somethin’ similar
A New Year Card
for me. Yes, I’vo done a power o’ travel-
lin’ in my time. Been ’ard up for water ?
Heaps o’ times. Along wi’ lambs, I don't
mind. I can alius fill my billy just by gettia up
afore daybreak an’ squoziu the doo out o’ their
tails inter it. No, I never troubled the jumbucks.
would ha been too oily on an empty stomick fust
thing in the mornin’. High, buck. Same again
Lots o’ Chinese round’ere, did you say? My word,
’eaps on ’em. Eany lepers ? Nover knowed a
Chow that could lep yet. I could lep myself a bit
onst. I used ter lep ovir old shanty at Winsor afore
brekfus for devilment. Run? You bet, I could.
I guv Kangaroo Billy, the arf-cast, a ’undred yard’s
spiel for a century on the ’Omebuah oost. We
runned barefoot in those days. Wen we was
fiddlin’ on the mark, Billy’s trainer walks up the
track on my side wi’ his trowels’ pockets full
o’ tacks an”oles in ’em. Bangl Off wegoes, I gies
a yell like a steam Id j un leavin’ the at ition, an’ two
or three bucks like a flying doe, then takes Billy’s
track in front o’ ’im and wins heasy. JoelTowser
as ’eld my duds took arf a pound o’ tacks
out o’ each fut. Then we goes for Billy
and his trainer and stumors ’em in no time.
Yes, I’ll hev another drink.” At this moment a
fisherman passed with a large cod. “ Fine fish,”
we remarked, interrogatively. “Yes,” said
Downy, grudgingly, “ nice fish, but only a sardine
to some I've cotched. I got one of the wharf
there, six onus couldn’t budge ’im, we hauled ’im
Out wi’ the winch, and ee 'unted us all over the
wharf harkin’ like a dog. The Woluateers turned
out an’ shot ’im. Wen we weighed ’im, ee drew
750M1b., includin’ the lead in ’im. Yous seem to
doubt me; come round to my crib au’ see ’is ’ead;
I uses it fur a dog-kennel. Mine's rum.” Here
we were overpowered by somnolence induced by
he heat and the monotony of our garrulous
friend's voice. This, dear enquirer after truth, Is
all we learned at Bushville. Wo never saw the
opening ceremony, although we attended the
banquet, and wo are now In no way connected
with the journal we represented there.
* * *
In the Cincinnati Enquirer of a late date
there is an elaborate account of a man-woman.
The history of her change of sex when in her
teens is minutely described, and the circumstances
attending the detection are fully given. There
are verbatim reports of the medical examinations
and copies of affidavits sworn by the gentleman
after he had ceased to be a lady. We merely re-
fer to the case, and mention where the report of
it cm be fount!, so that the Sydney Evening
News may be able to cut the column out and
give its intelligent readers an interesting New
Year’s treat. Then the Town and Country can
copy It, and she mwa in the back-blocks will say:
“ Them’s the kin 1 of papers as is worth subscrib-
ing for.”
* * *
At a Taris wedding several strange guests
were present. The bridegroom's and the bride’s
people each Imagined that these strangers were
invited by the other. Subsequently the discovery
of watches and purses being missed enlightened
all hands. The strangers were pickpockets. The
moral of this is that one can’t distinguish a pick,
pocket from a respectable person. Obvious
enough. We have known places where you
couldn't distinguish a patriotic member of Parlia-
ment from a commercial defaulter, a Chairman Of
Committees from a notoiious tip-taker, a pious
deputatlonist against the theatre from an habi-
tual Insolvent uncertifieated at the actual moment
of hi 3 pious demonstration.
In a certain Australian town the local rag-
man, who commands the Salvation Army, and
leads it on to victory, recently advertised for sup-
plies of left-off clothing. He also unhitched a
detachment of ’Lulah lasses to skirmish round
and capture auy stray garments they could find.
One of the warriors, who was short-sighted, and
wore green goggles, marched to the seashore, and
there discovered a pair of tweed pants, a hat,
coat, and some other things left deserted on the
beach. She quickly shouted, “Glory Hal-
leluyer!” seized the forsaken toggery, and
sped. The garments were the outer shell
of a “respectable old gentleman," who was
then on a swimming expedition a little way
out. He did not notice the robbery till the lass
was fading in the distance. Then he swam ashore,
shouted “ Stop thief,” and all unencumbered as he
was started in hot pursuit. The maiden was chaste
enough before, but the old party evidently
thought she should be chased again, at least, till
he got his own, and so he followed, shouting and
swearing all the time. The heroine of this shirt
tale, however, was partially deaf, as well as ditto
blind, and did not hear his cries. As the items she
had appropriated had a faded and ancient look
about them, she had klcptomaniadthem under the
delusion that they were the discarded garments
of some defunct scareerow She reached the bar-
racks in safety, and was opening out and display-
ing the duds to the shemale brigade, when,
horror of horrors, in rushed a strange creature,
apparently of a pre-Adamite type, attired princi-
pally in the simple and inexpensive costume of
that period. “ Gimme my close, you bad woman,”
heyelledl “ what the (Sheol) d’ye mean stealing
my close? Want to wear them, do you, eh? ” The
female contingent gave a simultaneous shriek and
fled headlong, leaving the enemy in full possession
of his things. Then he departed seaward to look
for his boots. He is still looking for them. (N.B.
—The writer of.this little par. was there before
him.)
* # *
*“ Hellelujah! lay on another three-inch
main there, Sergeant-Major, for they hare acti-
wallya tumblin’into the fountain by ’undreds,’
said the captain of the ‘Adelaide death or glory
boys’the other night. You want to know, of
course, what wrung from his 4 x 3 volcanic crater
this pious ejaculation. Wei!, shortly told, one
of the‘lasses,’a ‘married’woman, had been for
sometime bemoaning that she was (in one respect
only) like Sarah of old. ‘lt had pleased the Lord,’
said her husband, before the whole contingent of
men and women, ‘to alter her condition,
and she's fully and joyfully expected in
a month or two to you know.’ There-
upon the military Benedict transfigured with pious
emotion and triumph, yelled out ‘Stand up, Maria,
and let the Harmy sea what the Loard has done
for you.’” So writes a South Australian paper,
which guarantees tho item a fact. And this is re-
ligion and Divine worship. Great Cosmr! Give
ua blasphemy and call it by its name.
* * *
Sir William Clarke, Bart., received a
pretty little address from the Freemasons of Vic-
toria prior to setting forth upon his journey to
the land of Shakespeare and Samuel Wilson. And
Sir William returned the compliment by speaking
of the brethren in terms that must have brought
an honest blush of pleasure to the cheeks of bis
admirers. Carried away, possibly, by the warmth
of his feelings, Sir William observed—“A brother
in a lodge was always met upon a footing of
equality, and ho (Sir W. Clarke) had never in his
experience seen a member of the craft whose be-
haviour was not all that one could wish to see in
one’s own drawing or dining room.” This is indeed
praise from Sir William, and it has inspired us to
throw off a little ballad suitable for singing at
Masonic banquets.—
Dr. Beaney is quite the Melbourne hero of
the hour. A seleot circle of toadies—probably
anxious to inherit the diamonds he has already
accumulated, or else on the look out to sell him
some more—are fooling the worthy doctor to the
top of his bent. A perusal of Beaney's inter*
viewings and after-dinner effusions furnishes evi-
dence of what a grand “ mark ” he must be when
properly managed. The most florid of the doctor’s
Australian utteranees, however, pale before his
speech at the London “ Criterion,” where he was
entertained by Mr. S. V. Kemp and “other dis-
tinguished gentlemen.” Henniker Heaton was
chief among the distinguished ones, and be pro-
posed the toast of the evening. Doctor Beaney,
after thanking his “ learned friend ” (Henniker 1),
unburdened his mind of its chief troub’e-that no
surgeons have been “peeraged.” “Soldiers,
sailors, lawyers—aye, poets-have been elevated te
the peerage with seats in the House of Lords,”
said Beaney, but alas I “ great conservators of the
national health are conspicuous by their absenoe.”
Tae Beaneyian contempt for poets is aptly ex-
pressed by that little word “aye.” If guoh
a man as Alfred Tennyson acquires a handle
to his name, why shoul 1 Beaney continue
to cut off legs as plain as Mr. ? That is the
paint which the doctor would like explained.
Another puzzling thing is that Wellington was
rewarded with a dukedom after the battle c t
Waterloo, while the chief medical officer was put
off with a paltry knighthood. Beaney introduced
VICE AND VIRTUE.
If a man “ prigs ” a shilling ho “ thieves,”
He is sunk in iniquity’s gutter;
If he “ collars ” a score, and then leaves.
He’s a vagrant, who gaolwards must flutter;
Stealing twenty-11 ye pounds, he’s “ depraved,”
And a bad lot, however you take him;
If for fifty bis master he’s “ shaved,”
He’s as vile as Sathanus can make him ;
If a century's short from the till
He’s dishonest, ’twas wrong of him, rather;
While, if five hundred’s missing, folks will
Pity him “ for the sake of his father ”;
When a thousand is gone, he’s “ corrupt,”
And decidedly should have known better;
And at five thousand short, If abrupt-
Ly he skips, leaving only a letter,
He was led (the poor devill) astray—
Let him go, in a twelvemonth we’ll see him;
Speculations have gone the wrong way,
But a streak of good luck yet may free him.
If ten thousand, ‘‘irregular work,”
His book-keeping was "somewhat erratic”;
Twenty-five—” Naughty man, what a Turk!”
Murmur lady friends aristocratic;
Fifty thousand may lead up to law,
“Litigation ” this trifle must settle;
And a hundred is “ shoitage ’’—you saw
How one faced that on his mettle;
If by luck and good judgment combined
A man ‘'nicks a million ” (between us),
Just to praise him sky-high give your mind—
People look on that man as a genius.
E[?]AMTY, FRATRRNITY, AND FUEEMASON[?]
Oh, Masons of Victoria 1 right well may yon be
proud,
The rich and rare Sir William has your praises
sung aloud;
Such a kind and graceful tribute to your humble,
modest worth
Should stir your pulses—coming from a man of
noble birth.
There are among you many who engage in daily
“ graft,”
Yet none the less, in consequence, are oredlt to
the craft;
Sir William comes at times across some rather
queerish fish,
But the manners of the Masons-they are all that
ho could wish.
Be your parents ne’er so humble,or your fortunes
ne’er so poor,
You have quite enough good breeding not to spft
upon the floor;
And never has Sir William yet encountered in his
life
A Mason eating peas with the assistance ef a knife.
You take your soup at dinner-time in highly-cul-
tured sips,
And scorn to clutoh the finger-glass and raise It to
your lips;
While, when you seek the drawing-room and join
the ladies fair,
You never take a pocket-comb and put it through
your hair.
80, Masons of Victoria, right well may you be
preud
Of all the worthy qualities with whioh you are en-
dowed:
Be it ever your endeavour, while you linger here
on earth,
To keep that “ equal footing” with the men of
noble birth.


that historical circumstance as a sort of conun-
drum at the Criterion banquet, and Henniker
Heaton and Co. shook their heads sorrowfully,
and “ gave it up.” We should mildly insinuate
as an explanation of the case that there are some-
thing like 50.000,000 Beaneys for every Tennyson
or Wellington, save for a certain startling dis-
closure made by the doctor to a Herald reporter.
He professes to have a particular method of his
own in operating upon cancers. “ The difficulty
in dealing with cancers,” said the doctor, airily,
“ is in not being able to get at them. If they are
in such places as you can use the knife, you can
gave the patient’s life, but not otherwise.” Even
Beaney, you observe, has to use the knife. He
can’t blow on the cancers like Dowie, and
make them run out in his handkerchief-
But only let him get at ’em and then it will be all
right. Such a statement as this makes us regret
that poor General Grant succumbed without
seeing Beanoy. At the same time, it is only fair to
mention that everyone doesn’t accept the doctor’s
grandiloquent assertions so meekly as his special
sycophants or the Herald reporters. Someone
has written to the little evening paper declaring
“that no man knows better than Dr. Beaney that
he has no special operation unknown to or un-
practised by any surgeon of experience, and that
true caucer—save iu one or two minor forms—is
absolutely incurable.’’ The affronted doctor will,
no doubt, be thundering out his wrath before this
par. appears in print. Meanwhile this weary world
in which cancer becomes more prevalent every
day—the sins of the fathers visited upon the ctail-
The Blacks are Making Preparations for a Great Flood.—DAILY PAPRES.
dren—breathlessly awaits more words of wisdom
from the would-be surgical po9r.
* * *
If Lord Augustus Loftus had stayed with
ks a little while longer he might have proudly
Posed as a benefactor of his country. A doctor
Writes to a Melbourne paper about the scarcity of
Poultry, suggesting “ to those who have it in their
Power, to produce more of thefeatherei tribes,
khd so benefit their country and their pockets.”
This is exactly what Lord Augustus did, and yet
the country remained stolidly insensible to his ser-
vices. We never appreciated our late Governor
Until he had departed from us, and his patriotic
noultry establishment was broken up. Only new
do we realise that he was working for the benefit
of the community. Henceforth we shall regard
the cock-crow of early morning as a paean sounded
In Loftus’ praise. By-the-way, since the Cariugton
epidemic started raging, even poor old Gussy has
become somebody. People are paying long prices
for his bantams, as gubernatori il souvenirs. If the
new boss opened out in his predecessor's line of
business, we wonder ho w mu oh a doz?n he could
command for eggs.
e • m
An exciting honeymoon trip is recorded
fn the Dubbo Dispatch:— ‘‘Last week Mr. John
Poison was married to Miss Kate Galong at the
Oaks Station. The happy couple were going to
the bride’s father’s residence In a waggonette
When the horse reared and bolted. Mrs. Poison
Jumped out and landed safe on the ground, while
her husband was pitched out of the waggonette
on his head, but was only slightly hurt. The wag-
gonette was smashed to pieces. The pair pro-
ceeded on their way on horseback:”— I
When John and Kate were married they were
happy as could be,
For they hoped to lead a loving life, from oare and
trouble free;
When the parson spoke the blessing and had
kissed the blooming bride,
She and hubby sought the carriage, which was
waiting j ust outside;
As he shook the twines and chopped him sharp the
horse stood straight on end,
And at a rod-hot racing gait his homeward way
did wend.
The newly-married lady left the cart with agile
bound,
And she landed slightly later (on her bustle) on the
ground;
It was early iu their married life for John to run
away,
Bolt, and leave poor Kate to rusticate so early in
the day;
But, like Gilpin, still along the road he all unwill-
ing sped,
And when to leave the cart he tried, he landed on
his head.
That was how he saved his life—his head was not
a vital part—
And in fifteen seconds later there was very little
oart.
Swift the horse sped on his journey—he was run-
ning for the ” Oaks,”
And the bride and bridegroom followed, riding -
two less active mokes.
In the years to come, when saucers, oups, and
plates hail on his pate,
And when numerous small editions prowl around
of John and Kate,
Perhaps he’ll tell the little children of the day they
twain got wed,
When their mother sat down sudden and he
fetched it with his head;
While they listen to the story o’er and o'er re-
peated oft,
Will the children ever ask him is he still a little
soft.
* * e
We wrote some time ago about a Lyons
doctor, who had discovered a’ kind of pill—which
we with our quaint humour, called “ The Pills of
Peace ” —that acted benefloently on the brain.
But he is a mere journeyman psychologist com-
pared to Professor Jaeger, of Vienna, who has
made a fortune on the sale of what he oalls “ Soul:
Pills.” The Professor holds that “ the human
soul is not a spirit but an odour emanating from
the person, and notably distinguishable in the
hair.” Wo shall never say that the members of
the Y.M C.A. are soulless persons any more.
Judging by this, each of their souls should be
strong enough to carry the sins of a regiment.
We shall always revere hairdressers and shop-
assistants for the same reason. Their souls smell
afar off. Professor Jaeger goes on to say in his
prospectus that he has bottled this odour, and
made it into pills, and that the purchaser can fill
himself up with whatever moral or mental quali-
ties ho likes by taking these pills internally. Now,
this Is something like a discovery. We think it is
the duty of the N.S.W. Government to purchase
a ship-load of these beatifying boluses and distri-
bute them to oertaln politicians, parsons, Potts*
Pointers, judges, and editors, whose names we are
prepared to furnish. It is time they had souls of
some sort—even pill-s. uls.
* * *
The undertakers are in mourning along
the line. It seems a truism to say this, but you will
see that it is not when you reflect that under-
takers never mourn in reality. Is it likely they
would mourn over what fills their pockets?
Scarcely. But they are mourning now in grim
earnest. They have been preparing themselves
for the last week or two for a boom of business
from the expected cholera. But the ehoiera has
gone back on them. The hearts of the coffin-
makers of Sandhurst (Vio.), are nearly broken over
this. A young woman engaged in a drapery
establishment in Melbourne went to spend her
holidays with her parents at Quarry Hill, near
Sandhurst. Led away by the enthusiasm of the
season, or perhaps actuated by the nobler motive
of love for her mother, she surrounded so much
pudding that she began to think, late in tha after-
noon, that she had -well, that she had cholera in
its most virulent form. Her family thought so
too. 80 did the neighbours. The rumour spread
through Sandhurst faster than scandal, and the
undertakers went into their back apartments
and kissed their wives and recklesily promised
them silk dresses and new bonnets, and pledged
themselves to buy bicycles and toy-hearses for the
bigger children and a drum—muffled, of oourse
—for the baby. Then the crash came. It was not
cholera at all, but well, we have all taken
too much pudding in our tims and we know. As
soon as this became certain, every undertaker
plunged into their back apartments with wilful
murder in their eyes, and simultaneously assaulted
the 'baby—the other children having fled—and
then, after cooling down a little, led their
wives by the arm Into the ooffin-faotory, and
showed them the shell which was intended to hold
their cold remains before a week was over. We
got this information from a resident of the place.
But we are not prepared to vouch for the truth of
all of it. He also says that the young woman, who
was the cause of all this trouble, got away from
Sandhurst in disguise. If she had not, he says the
undertakers would have buried her, cholera or no
cholera, as a warning to others not to give false
alarms. The moral of this story is obviously—play
light on the plum-pudding. Like all other morals,
it is not worth a cuss until enforoed by bitter ex-
perience.
...
Mr. Connor, one of the members for Gee-
long, has made one of the most sensible proposals
that have ever yet emanated from a member of
the Yictorian Assembly. This is saying some-
thing, though ndt much. The proposal is that
cookery be taught to female pupils in State
sohools. In all seriousness, we think this a most
sane and statesmanlike idea. For what is the
average woman employed at all her life after she
is married? Cooking, of oourse. And what Is
supposed to be the main purpose of education ?
Why, to fit the pupil for his or her future avoci-
tlons. Does the learning of pieces o t poetry by
rote—the being dragged through the labyrinth
®f the irregular verbs—or the grievously-aeaalrad
knowledge of the date whei William the Con-
queror came over from Ireland and knocked the
hogs-lard out of the base and brutal Baxon—de
this ? [lt is needless to say that the writer is an
Irishman, and a—distorter of facts.—Ed. B ] Well,
we think not. What would a hungry husband say
when he came home from work and found ne
dinner ready? Would he be soothed by his wife
cheerily informing him that she would diseut®
with him the state of society In the Feudal Ages—
or plBy “ The Maiden’s Prayer ” on the plane— or
recite “ The Boy stood on the Burning Deck ” for
him ? He would most probably beat her over tfc»
head with the rolling-pin, and then go out
and get drunk. We tell you cookery is the
corner-stone of the Sooial Fabric. It is the
basis of morality and religion. If there were
better cookery in thB homes of the people there
would be less crime. Many a husband is new in
gaol, and many a wife in the hospital, whe might
have lived lovingly together till the evening of
their days, if cookery had been taught la schools
when the wife was a girl. Some people aay that
it should be taught at home. Perhaps it sheuld,
hut it never is. Let them ask any little girl they
meet on her way to school what her experience
is. We wager she will tell them that whea she
goes home in the evening she has the baby-if
there be a baby in the family, as there nearly
always is—handed over to her to “ mind **—which
means that she must hump him about, he howling
all the while, and his heavy head nodding apoplee-
tioally over her shoulder, till her mother cqUa
her in to her tea, after which she has, most
likely, to clean the hoots of the family, “ run
errands,” then sit down to “ do her lessons,” after
that go for supper-beer, and then to bed. Muob
time she has to learn cookery while Bhe Is doing
all this. We have asked dozens of little girls
what their experience was in this eonnectlen, and
their answers have been substantially as above.
Some varied the list of their duties by ocoaslonally
“ going for the polios for father,” but these were
in the minority. However, we think we hare said
enough to show that Mr. Connor de erves well of
the rising generation of husbands by suggesting
that their future wives should—with a view to
the abolition of fried steak—learn how to eook
in school. The girls would take a pleasure in It,
and no time need to be taken from the hours
allotted for the acquirement of other knowledge.
We would suggest that each female pupil should
take her dinner with her in a raw state, and eook
it in the school kitchen under the superintendence
of a lady instructor. This would mean the ereo-
tion of a kitchen to each school, but tbatwould be
a small expense compared with the gain that
would accrue. At the worst, the girls might cook
dinners picaio-faaMon in the playground. It
might be well, in order to make this branch of their
education thorough, that each girl should have to
oook for a boy in addition to cook ngfor herself—
the boy to take the part of a husband, and growl
and kick the fire over if her cooking did not please
him or the dinner was Jnot ready to the minute.
This is the kind of education that would fit her
for her future part in life It is both philosophi
cal and practical, and would knock all your Kin-
dergarten systems into oocked-hatted oblivion.
Your hand, Mr. O’Connor! Ic takes us to do it.


It is pitiful to observe the studied malig-
nity with which the Devil is pursued. If he does
ifttytliinff bad—and which of us doesn’t ?—his name
srthrown to the dogs of the streets to worry and
tear. But if he does a good thing his action and
its influence are passed over without a word.
When the bishops of Australasia met the other
day in St. Mary’s, in Sydney, he had the outlying
country practically to himself. Were he a grasper,
were he one to take a mean advantage, he could
Turf Ethics.
“IN THE HOUYHNHNM LANGUAGE THERE IS NO WORD TO EXPRESS ‘LYING,’ ‘FALSE STARTING,’ OR ‘BRIBERY.’ ... THAT KIND OF THING IS ALL LEFT TO THE
YAHOOS. . . . IT IS INCOMPREHENSIBLE THAT IN ANY COUNTRY A HOUYHNHNM WOULD ALLOW SO DETESTABLE A CREATURE AS A YAHOO TO MOUNT UPON
HIS BACK.”- Gulliver paraphrased.
have sallied out, doubled up the little clerics left
oa guard, and taken whole hosts of the faithful
prisoner. He did not condescend to do this. Sta-
tistics show that during the time the bishops sat
In Sydney there was no extra exertion maae by
the Devil. He kept up the old deliberate fusil-
lade, but indignantly declined to make a raid
while the citadels were weak. If only half the
men going bad the s?rr,e spirit and mugr.animity
pons- sit'd by the ttie tvotld would be far
nobler than It li>
Charity is said to cover a multitude of
sins, but it might bo more serviceable in the
world if it covered a multitude of sinners. This
wise saw you can have free of charge. It came
upon us suddenly when we were reading some of
the appeals made by superintendents of asylums
and others for clothes, &c. to be given to the
inmates at Christmas. We think it cm hardly be
denied that we are an eminently charitable
people. Then we have in the Benevolent Asylums
all over the colonies numbers of aged folk who
should be In the Legislative Council. Their rela-
tions are rich and well able to provide for them.
But are we going to etaud by and see those rela-
tives do so? Are we going to see them deprive
their Potts Point or Toorak friends of one garde n
party in the year to do so? Not much, jf we know
it. We are going to sail in and take charge of
their old folk and support them out of our own
pockets every time. For why? Becau»e if we dil
not the Asylums would soon be full of nothing
but poor people, and the proper place for poor
people is toe gaol.
For a really novel point in theology com-
mend us to the Hobart butcher, wh", amongst
other Xmis deiicune I *. exhibited a row of socking
pigs with a band’omelv illuminated text,— Christ
died for us”—across their backs. That the por-
cine tribe w as included in the atonement is pro-
bably the most liberal idea on the subject yt t
introduced. Another pig story enmes from Both-
well (Tas.). The supply of uucl-au animals was not
euual to the dem ind. A local batcher was in des-
pair, when a friend informed him that ’‘Mrs.
Crocker had a number of pigs to dispose of.” He
departed joyfully to secure the same, but on
arriving at Mrs. C.’s found to his disgust that he
hat been “s id,” the aniuia's in question were
guineapigs. H« was mad enough for anything,
and did not regain his wonted cheerfulness till he
had despatched another butcher on the same fruit-
less, or rather porklesa, errand. Then he felt
happy. Mark Twain says “One should always
‘got even’ in some way, else the sore place will
go on hurting.”
Iu its advice to convicted murderers, a
'Fr's-xt paper entreats the gentlemen who are
about to swing to affect a pious martyr’s air, add-
ing that if they do, thousands of notoriety women
will hang about the gaol and pray with them, and
stutf tht-m with goon victuals, and send them re-
ligiuus books, uud fascwn up ehromos of dying
saints in their cells; and if they are unmarried
some one of the old widows or grey-haired
maidens will insist on loving and, perhaps, marry-
ing them. Let’s see. Didn’t we have a frightful
exatmle of all this over our last send-off at Dar-
liughurst ? Human nature's the same all the
world over—except in ’Frisco, and there it’s a
trlfl? more so.


people who talk. No attempt is made to provide
them with a raison d'etre la the pant.—they
Just pose and tumble strictly on their merits.
)n those merits they are music-hall per-
formers of the highest class. Another out-of-
place item in tho evening’s programme is the in-
troduction of the “Royal Zylophonists.” The
Zylophonists consist of one gentleman and several
young ladies, who are cruel enough to concen-
trate their energies on a thankless task. They
tap primitive melodies out of little bars of iron
stuck on the top of little tables. We remember to
have heard a blind man, on London Bridge, do
something very similar, but never guessed that he
was a zylophonist. We always put him down as
a nuisance. If you have a deadly enemy in this
world invite him to your four-roomed mansion,
and rattle off an overture on the zylophone. You
can order the undertaker later on. One
word in conclusion, about the “Sleeping
Beauty.” With a few lively, popular songs
(importations from London, for choice) put
into the pretty mouths of the ladies, a
topical duet between tne leading men, plenty of
bright music between the acts, and a more vola-
tile ballet, this pantomime may do as well as did
" Cinderella ’ ’ (here) last year. We were forgetting
the ballets. There are two—the "Wonderful Excel-
sior Ballet,” which hadn’t developed its most
amazing qualities last week, and a little, short-
skirted gambol between nice big young ladies and
very small young ladies. One of the very small
ones fell over on the night of our visit. We dis-
tinctly heard expressions of disappointment that
the mishap didn’t occur to one of the nicer and
bigger syrens. Perhaps we shared our neigh-
bours’ regrets. Under such interesting conditions
white muslin becomes a wonderfully attractive
study for the male mind.
* * * ■?£
At latest, Fred. Mervin was playing at the
Comedy Theatre, London, with Florence Bt. John,
in “ Erminie,” a new comic opera adapted from
the French. Fred, has quite recovered his voice.
*» » *
“ What do you think of my new tragedy ?”
inquired the great dramatic author-actor of a
friend. “Grand, sir, grand,” was the reply; “es-
pecially your robbers. In fact, they are the very
best robbers I ever heard of. Even the words
they speak are stolen from other books.”
m
“Great is Diana of the Ephesians!” and
great is Dion of the Thespians. Mr. Boucicault has
chosen the Melbourne Age as the receptacle of his
bile. He leaves that behind him in place of shak-
ing off the dust of Australia when leaving its
shores. He takes the dust with him. to the ex-
tent of some nine thousand pounds. Not bad for
an old’un for less than a year’s work 1 He has
shaken off wife and family also, and leaves the
latter chargeable to thelparish, represented in this
case by the theatrical part of it. These be brave
doings for one turned of 70, but bolder yet has he
been in taking unto himself a young wife. What
Says Sir Peter Teazle of that when younger even
than is Boueicault ? “ When an old man marries a
young woman he deserves No, damme, he de-
serves nothing I the crime brings its own punish-
ment.” Dion is wroth with the Theatre Royal
people of Melbourne, and Williamson, Garner and
Co. reply to him with anything but a “ soft
answer.” They called him “ most cantankerous of
men,” and stated that “the ingratitude of his con-
duct has never been equalled within our experi-
ence.” He applied to them for an extension of nig
Sydney engagement, and to be allowed to play a
renewed/me in Melbourne, “We declined this,
and then trouble began.” A sore feeling had com-
menced at the failure, with the Melbourne public,
of Dion’s pet play of “ The Jilt,” “for which,” says
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Co., “ the reason
must have been apparent to everyone but the.
author.” Boucicault is like a dog pelted with
marrowbones. He leaves us growling and threat-
ening, with his pockets full of Australian gold.
We shouldn’t be surprised to see him again. An
excuse might be that he’d come back to “fetch
the children.”
« @ a
Our London correspondent writes:—“l
am afraid that Miss Agues Consuelo’s first mana-
gerial venture will not prove a particularly
brilliant success. The management hit upon a
clever mode of advertising the show. It was
this. Letters appeared in the morning papers,
signed by Consuelo and her ‘pardner,’ Harris,
complaining that a gentleman, infuriated by his
failure to secure a box for the first night, had
threatened to put a mob into the pit to hiss the
piece and generally create a disturbance. Still
further did the enterprising manageress and
manager go. They appeared one morning at Bow-
street Police Station, stated their case, and asked
the advice of the magistrate and the protection of
the police. The public, in the delightful antici-
pation of a shindy, rolled up of course, and on the
first night the house was packed. But the shindy
did not come off. There was a good deal of hiss-
ing from both pit and gallery, but those
portions of the house always contain the keenest
andlmost candid critics, and the piece cer-
tainly deserved the disapprobation it re-
ceived. As there is not, in my opinioa,
much likelihood of the * Fay o’ Fire’ being taken
to Australia, a detailed account of it is not neces-
sary. Herman’s libretto is very poor stuff, while
Jones’ music, although occasionally tuneful and
effective (in parts where the composer’s memory
proved more reliable than his imagination) is a
terribly inconsistent and patchy piece of work. a.
man who is mixed up in the venture tells me that
Herman, who has will of his own, bullied Con-
euelo into playing a minor instead of one of the
principal parts; so minor, in fact, was her part
that she passed almost unnoticed by the daily
papers. One of the weeklies which mentioned her
suggested that the part might be eliminated from
the piece with advantage. I think, however, that
Consuelo, although a sad failure as an actress or a
Singer, will eventually succeed as a manageress.
She is a keen business woman, is said to have lots
of money, and is old enough to know the differ-
ence between a florin and a half-crown. There
are only two London theatres making any money
this month—the Lyceum, with ‘ Olivia,’ and the
Savoy, with * The Mikado.’ All the other manage-
ments are dropping coin with more or less ra-
pidity. The fastidious London correspondent
daren’t venture into the stalls now lest he tumble
across some of his neglected tradesmen, who have
come in with ‘ orders.’ Creswick’s benefit was a big
euccess. The dear old fellow pocketed £5OO over the
affair, and he is now considering how long a time
It would be decent of him to allow pass before he
has another. I was ‘ behind ’ for a few minutes at
the close of the entertainment. When he caught
Bight of me, the old man burst through the riDg of
respectful admirers and brother and sister artists
which encircled him, and, with tears running over
the grease-paint on his withered cheeks, flung
himself into my arms. ‘ Ah, this is too muoh joy,'
he sobbed; ‘if you had only brought my old
friend, Davy Buchanan, with you, my happiness
would have been complete.’”
## # *
Latest London advices state that a Mg
entertainment was being organised for the
benefit of Harry Jackson’s widow. Some hand-
some donations had been made by the leading
theatrical managers, and £145 had been subscribed
in the “ring” at Newmarket. The “books”
swallowed up Jackson’s “stuff” when he was in
the flesh, and his shade will contemplate with ap-
proval the return of “ a bit of his own ” to the
The report of the death of Fred. Evans,
the clown, to which we referred last week, proves
to be—well, like most reports. The renowned
Fred, wrote to a London paper from Berlin deny-
ing that he was dead. We believe him. He ought
to know.
Exhausted nature signifies by symptoms that
■he needs aid and succour. Use Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Woman, in our hour of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please;
But certain to be pleased when they
The goods of Summerfleld survey.*
Our London Correspondent discourseth
of Henniker Heaton.
While I am writing this the oable to the
Noose, announcing the gratifying intelligence
that Mr, J. Henniker Heaton has become a mem-
ber of the House of Commons,-is just about being
put into type. We have anticipated that result
for the Canterbury election for some time. The
disestablishment question naturally cooked the
Liberal cause in au electorate which is the diocese
of the Primate of the English Church, and early in
the contest Heaton’s opponent, a dissenting par-
son named Dr. Aubrey—a sort of John Osborne—
clamoured for disestablishment, thereby playing
strongly into the Australian’s hands Heaton’s
cause was further strengthened by the Catholic
vote. The Conservatives would have had this in
any case, but It was made more effective by the
priest openly counselling his flock to vote for Mr.
Heaton. Why was this thus ? lamin a position
to tell you on the strict Q.T. Heaton has an Aus-
tralian friend who is In a position to gain the ear
of Cardinal Manning. That friend gained that ear,
and through It the unanimous Catholic vote at
Canterbury. Who else gained In the transaction
besides Mr. Heaton, l am not in a position to say.
But, stop! lam. Tbe electorate of Canterbury
gained—and so, of course, did the House of Com-
mons!
■• . *
Heaton’s mode of conducting the con-
test at Canterbury was very characteristic of
the man. No one who has read my letters will
suspect me of being a supporter of his. But I
oannot help admiring him in many respects. He
is possessed of sublime moral courage, and a de-
termined will, whioh any man might well envy.
The value of these admirable qualities is enhanced
by surprising shrewdness, great patience, and a
capacity for bearing abuse whioh would shame
’Enery Parkes and put Samuel Wilson to the blush.
The latter—who has not, I think, been more
abused than .Heaton—had it announced that in
future no Australian papers would be permitted
to enter his house. If be thought in that way,
to muzzle the pens of the people who knew him
heat, how bitterly mistaken he is The dodge
won’t do. I happen to know that on the quiet he
gets all the principal colonial papers as usual, and
only last week, when a friend of mine called at 9
Grosvenor-square, he found Sir Samuel deep lu
his Bulletin, which he tri d to oonceal under
his coat-tails when my friend surprised him. i
But I was going to give you an instance of
Mr. Heaton’s depth. Anticipating, for reasons
best known to himself, that secret attempts would
be made to Injurs him In the estimation of the
Canterbury electors, he contrived to have a plea-
sant little chat with the other side. The result
was an arrangement that all attempts to injure
the character of either of the candidates should
CROWNER’S QUEST LAW.
CORONER: “GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY, IF IT IS YOUR OPINION THAT YOUR FORE-
MAN IS DRUNK, WE SHALL HAVE TO BEGIN THIS CASE DE NOVO."
FOREMAN: “HANG THE CASHE DE NOVO. LETS PROSHEED WITH ER CASHE
DROWNING FIRSHT.”
immediately be to his opponent.
Heaton has now, I believe, in his possession some
sweet specimens of the "anonymous letter” form
of communication whioh were sent to bis oppo-
nent, by whom they were duly forwarded to
him. Some time ago I was under the impression
that Heaton was needlessly alarmed; that it was,
ia fact, a case of “Wolf 1" But since theu his
fears have been fully justified. Snakes in the
grass were very much to the fore. Some days
since an advertisement apneared in the morning
papers offering a reward of £3O for the discovery
of the author or printer of a defamatory
circular which had been distributed at Canter-
bury concerning the Conservative candidate.
I have not yet been able to reoeive a copy of the
objectionable circular, but I am given to under-
stand that it reproduced the old Cooper story, and
among other things mentioned that it is not to his
wonderful pluck and energy, but to his wife that
Heston owes his fortune. This is very had.
Whatever may be our private or publicly ex-
pressed opinions of Heaton, he stands out very
favourably in comparison with the skunk who
tried to stab him in the dark. “ Fair play's bonny
play.” When we see a man deliberately struck
below the belt, even if we are not a particular pal
of his, we feel prompted to jump into the ring
on his behalf.
* Si *
If Heaton had plenty of enemies, he was
certainly not destitute of friends during the con-
test. Among those who gave him a lift Charlie
Lett should not bs omitted. Charlie went down
the other night to Canterbury to speak on his
compatriot s behalf at a meeting. He stood up
among the crowd ©n the platform, and began to
tell the electors how his friend, Mr. Heaton, had
fought his way upwards; how, with nothing but
an umbrella and a notebook, he had penetrated
the lonely back-blocks, and returned in a couple
of months, having secured over 6000 sub-
scribers to that enlightened “jernai” the Town
and Country. An irreverent elector suddenly
interrupted with, “Stand out, and let’s ’ave a
look at yer.” “Certainly,” answered Charles,
cheerfully, making his way to the front, “ I’m
not a bad looking fellow.” Nor is he, mind you.
Some of the oldest inhabitants of SydDey still
talk of “Handsome Charlie Lett; ” but alas! in-
exorable old Time refuses to stand still for us I
* * *
Yes, J. Henniker Heaton is now perched
upon another rung of the ladder of his ambition.
Will he be content! I think not. I have long
since detected a distinct element of Oliver Twisti-
ness in his disposition. If anyone imagines that
our frieDd is going to be a dumb M.P. he is mis-
taken. He dreams of future greatness. A re-
turned Australian has graced the woolsack—
anotberhas presided over the National Exchequer.
Ta»>ro is already a Lord Henniker—hut there is
room ft r a Lord Heaton, for m Ear! Bondi,
or a Milrquess fof CoOgee Bay, Heaton haq
always declared that If he succeeded in getting
into the Imperial Parliament he would do every-
thing he poißlbly could for Australia and Aus-
tralians. It was very nice and kind of him to
volunteer that promise. Australia and Aus-
tralians, you see, may still hope. There Is a good
time coming for us all. A few days before the
election I met Mr. Heaton, and seized the occa-
sion to buttonhole him. “Now,” I said, “there
are no witnesses, so you may speak candidly.
What Is your object in getting Into Parliament—
to be of use to your country, or that your coun-
try may be of use to you ?” He looked me
straight in the face. His eyelids never quivered.
Am expression] of sublime enthusiasm spread,
like a sheen of glorious brass, slowly from
thh tip of his dark beard to the summit
of his expansive brow. His face was as the
face of the patriot who Is about to die for the dear
fatherland. “Mr. Original,” he said, his manly
voice trembling with the effort to suppress his
emotion, “my object In getting Into Parliament
his that I may be of use to my country.”
“I never go to church,” writes a lady in
some patent medicine ad., “ but I am half asleep
during the sermon.” This, she alleges, is in con-
sequence of her liver being “off colour.” How
many holy Christians must be afflicted with this
complaint! The ordinary church during sermou-
time is like the vale of Somnus.
Nothin’ like hedeoashin.—Up Mary-
borough (Q ) way, during a receut prize-giviuf;
scrimmage, one of the school-trustees, who woulc
pass for a twin brother of theTichborne Claimant,
while handing a music prize to one of the girls,
said that she had made wonderful “ process con-
siderin ’ the short institution she had had." This
comes of making a man a school trustee when
his proper place is between the shafts of a navvy’s
barrow.
He had been chatting for the entertain-
ment of his friends for an hour or more, straight
away. When he stopped for a slight rest, and to
get a fresh supply of speech ready for delivery, a
lady dashed into the vacanoy. She had just com-
mented to say her little speech when he Interjected
“Thatreminds me.” “Excuse me, Mr. ,” she
observed quietly, “this is something interesting .”
Five minutes later he was out ’neath the star-
spangled sky fmaking a straight break for the
cemetery, where he was sure of being uninter-
rupted by tbe audience.
Mr. Carter, member of the Victorian As-
sembly for West Melbourne, and late Mayor of
Melbourne, opposed the Electoral Amendment
Bill lately brought before tbe Assembly on the
strange and preposterous grounds—from the point
of view of an average member of Parliament—
that by making 10 additional members, as it pro-
poses to do, it will increase the burdens of the
people to the extent of £3OOO a year. Ab though
the burdens of the people was any earthly concern
of Parliament. We presume Mr. Carter would
rather keep 10 honest men hanging round doing
nothing than let them go and legislate for their
countrymen, and draw their three hundred aDiece.
He would take the bread out of the mouths of
these men and see them starve sooner than see
the legislators of Victoria increased by 10 patriots
more. The soul of such a man must be dead with-
n him.
North Queenslanders don’t like to be
preached at about the kanaka trade. An evan-
gelical paper called the Scottish Guardian has
lately been sent out from home with the notion
that its fervid denunciations of Queensland slave-
dealing would make Banana-men blush to the
heels of their boots. Here is a retort one of the
Rockhampton papers sends back:—“As to the
kanaka at work and the way he is robbed in
Queensland, it would have been better for the
widows and helpless who had small funds in the
Glasgow Bank, if the directors of that honourable
company had been as well looked after as the wel-
fare of the kanaka is studied. First, dear
Guardian, take out the mote of shame, misery,
fraud, and good all round sin that bungs the eye
of the British lion, and then come over here and
start sugar growing.’’ When the pious parsons of
the land of righteousness Iget this in their ears
they will send to Exeter Hall for money to spread
true Gospel light around the brim of every
vacuum pan in the colony.
The London Referee received a rap
across the knuckles for waxing satirical over what
it was pleased to call the “neglected” condition
of Lord Reaconsfleld’s grave, someone wrote and
explained that the grass round about is trodden
away, because as many as 4000 people visit the
tomb in one day. The Ref. had decidedly the
worst of it there. And, by the way, did you ever
see one single footprint on the grass surrounding
the magnificent marble pile sacred to the memory
of a money-grubbing C.M.G. ? Perhaps the No.
19 bo‘ot of the gardener may leave an occasional
print, but none other. Solid merit alone lures
pilgrims to Its last resting place. Now, when we
lay down the pen at the termination of an honour,
able, but 111-rewarded career, and seek the bourne
whence no traveller returns, we will leave in-
structions that the ground around our little
wooden cross be left a barren waste. Whv put
green turf to be worn down by the reverent feet
of an admiring multitude ? The lesson of Beacons-
fleld’s grave shall not be thrown away upon us.
Onck a Month expresses the following
opinion Australian poets are as yet few in
number. As for Australian verse-makers, like
verse-makers everywhere, their name is Legion;
though if they would even make good verse, we
could forgive them. But often the pace of their
Pegasus resemble" the canter of a foundered
horse; and the ‘Rhyme’ and the ‘reapin' aro
equally faulty. Vers de soclete, and semimental*
verses, such as are commonly affected by these
estimable persons, are-not supposed to be of the
highest order of poetry; but they are supposed t*
exhibit at least good grammar, rhyme, and
, rhythm. Many of the most successful specimen®
have had little besides to recommend them; but
just because they had these they have pleased
their readers, and have lived for a time, however
ephemeral. They have served their turn because
they fulfilled the conditions contained in the
music-publisher’s question to a rather unsuccess-
ful writer; ‘ Why can’t you write a pretty little
song, with a taking title, and nothing In it ?’ ”
Well, we have not space io reply to this sleeping
slating. Gordon, Kendall, Stephens, Denlehy,
and other sweet singers of our Southern
settlements, have uttered their musical mur-
murs to refute the lie. Once a Month ac-
complishes every issue the feat asked for by the
publisher of whom It makes mention. It has •' a
taking title, and nothing in it.” If it now changes
its “ taking title ” to Once a Tear it will be more
welcome than ever. It is very evident it wants an
ear for music. But stay—perhaps the soulful
Sladen has been inflicting his poems on the
monthly pipe-light as a sample of Antipodean
music. If so, no wonder the man who writes the
humorous items got his hair off and lied. A page
of Bladen would make a man fight his grand-
father's ghost.
The Referee, the moat outspoken and re-
liable of English sporting papers, continues to
steadily peg away at the ruffianism and bladk- *
guardism which are now rampant on raoecourses
m the old country. Henry Sampson, than whom
there is no better authority in the world, says that
Epsom is productive of more offences against purse
and person in one day than the prize ring produced
duriDg any fifty years of its existence. No one,
with any knowledge of the crooked side of the
sport of Kings, doubts this assertion. An Austra-
lian racecourse, despite the decadence of our turf
morals, is a very Garden of Eden in the innocence
and purity of its surroundings as compared with a
similar recreation ground in England. On the
fiat or on the hill at Elemington there is a fair per-
centage of bagmen betting on the bounce, men
who are only able to pay over a racs so long as
their balance comes out at the right side. But of
welshers, pure and simple—gentlemen who never
“ part ” under any consideration—there are, at pre-
sent, but few. They will come as population in-
increases, and money gets tighter, but mean-
time they are in an insignificant minority. At
a popular English meeting, on the other
hand, welshers are as sands on the sea shore.
Many of them, in the smaller stands or on the
flat, are so strongly supported by confederates
that they scorn to make tracks after a favourite
has won. Only the greenest of greenhorns ever
dream of attempting to raise a hue and cry over
the loss of their money. If a “ mug ” obs inately
persists in asking for his own, the chances are that
a gang of the “boys” will slip an old satchel
across his shoulders, hit him in the mouth to make
him look “ genuine,” and kick the poor wretch all
round the place for a “ thief.” People who
know only a very little are quite content to put up
with their loss when they discover they have
backed a horse with a “ wrong ’un.” Almost as
numerous an army as the “ welshers ” are the
‘ brief snatchers. ’ These are more or less in
league with many of the larger ready-money
bookmakers (which latter, by the way, are mostly
sprung from the ranks of “ we'shers ’5 and “ lum-
berers”), and hover round about their patrons
while tickets are being issued before a raoe, or
handed in for payment after the “all right” has
been pronounced. A “mug” taking £loto £5 about
a favourite stands a fair chance of having
his ticket snatched out of his hand directly he re-
ceives it from the “ book.” Be runs most danger
of losing it, though, when paying time ooraes.
Many of the bookmakers we speak of make a
point of ignoring the outstretched hand of the
“ mug,” and his modest demand for “ £l5, please,”
until a sudden push in the crowd causes him te
look round, when someone makes a snatch at the
“ brief,” and bolts. The grief of the bookmaker,
when his innocent client explains the robbery, la
beyond expression. However, “he can’t pay
except on the ticket,” as he pathetically explains.
Tne ticket is brought to him iater on by one of
the “talent,” and usually redeemed at something
like half-price, amid winks and nods and mutual
congratulations. Meanwhile the “ mug ” is sur-
rounded by sympathisers, who undertake to intro-
duce him to a “private bookmaker” next time.
Woa betide the poor wretch if he falls into the
trap and puts himself in the hands of his new
friends. They will be well-dressed, probably,
with plenty of massive jewellery—” good stuff
about them. They will introduce their lamb
to a bogus trainer and jockey (who, fer
choice, perhaps, call themselves Fred. Archer's
father and brother) and advise him to go all hr’s
worth on the trainer’s tip. Then they come across
a responsible looking bogus bookmaker, a gentle-
man who is very high-handed in his style, and is
usually just about to execute aprivate commission,
for the Prince of Wales on the very same horse
that the “ mug ” has just been advised to baok.
“Better let him put you a tenner on along with
the Princes,” whisper one of the “lumberers.”
The “mug” obeys. It is a matter of equal in-
difference whether the horse picked wios or loses.
If it should comoin first, one of the men will pre-
tend to go in search of the “ Prince of Wales’ com
miseioner,” and return with the information that
they have put all the winnings on a certainty lor
the next race. The “ mug’s ’ money must go one
way or another, and it he shows Bpirit and
gets suspicious, it goes pretty hard with him.
This is a class of swindling which can only
be successfully carried out on a raeeeourse
where “wrung ’uns” predominate, and green-
horns are plentiful. The “boys” are now
so ail powerful at English meetings that the
“ riDg ” itself is in danger of being sacked. A>
minor raid was brought off at the last Epsom
meeting, and the Referee predicts that one of,
these days there will be a descent upon the sacred
inclosure at Newmarket, and everybody in it
‘ 1 cleared out.” For it must be borne in mind that
the hordes of welshers, lumberers, and mere
genteei villains are only the aristocracy of the
“scum of the course.” The great bulk of the
mob is composed of fellows lacking sufficient ad-
dress to perpetrate more than the very meanest
swindle. Their game is robbery, pure and simple.
And, as showing the corruptness of some of the
ready money “ books,” it is worthy of note that a
stolen watch and chain often Aids its way to the
pocket ol a quite wealthy metallician, withia
half-an-hour of being grabbed. Accounts,
presumably, are squared up between thief
and “ fence,” after they leave the oourse.
Of course there are plenty of ready-money
bookmakers having no direct communica-
tion with brief-snatcher# or pick-pockets. But
far too many of them are themselves only old
hands, who nave started “ square ” books on the
proceeds of some exceptionaby big coup. If there
were some soundly constituted turf body with
authority to issue licenses and badges to book-
makers of decent credentials—as is done out here
—the English public would have some protection
as far as wagering goes. Such an arrangement,
too, would have this effect of e'eansieg the
different enclosures of the mob that now hang on
to the skirts of bookmakers who would not then
be allowed to ply their rotten trade. So long,
however, as the State and the Law refuse to
extend reasonable protection to anybody or any-
thing connected with racing, there is no hope of
any improvement in the morals of the English
turf.
A great revolution in the use of spirits has
taken place— Wolfe’s Schnapps has taken the
place of the best brandies.
“Honesty is the best policy.” If every-
body thought so Wolfe's Schnapps would not be
imitated as it is.
Full many an aohing heart is sad,
With weary sickness sore—
But clothed in tweed from Summerfleld's,
Man yearns for nothing more.*
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe’s Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
Newspaper men are about the best 5udgpS of a
good dritia Tbey one and all appreciate Wolfk’S
Schnapps.


Woman Liems
She had powdered her dainty proboscis.
Hal”l sweetly observed her rival; “she has
fainted about the nose.”
A lady, who could not conceal even from
herself the plainness of her face, boasted that her
back was perfect. “That is the reason, I suppose,
that yonr friends are always glad to see it, said
one of her listeners.
A proud mother, a “ fruitful vine,” was
boasting of her twins, “they looked so exactly
alike that you couldn’t tell ’em apart.” “ Well,”
said her antique maiden neighbour; “I don’t see
anything suspicious in that.” ,
Two old people—both were over 60—
making a bridal tour into Cincinnati, acted so
silly that the conductor threatened to put ’em off
the train, and a Cincinnati judge gave ’em a ver-
dict of $900 as damages. He argued that a person
who didn’t set silly when in love was not really in
love.
A lady commissioned her husband to buy
her a pair of flesh-coloured kid gloves last week,
but when he brought them home to her she was
chagrined to find they were a dark-brown colour.
" Didn’t I tell you ,/lesh-colour ?” she demanded.
" Well, my love,” was all he Bald as he held out
his hands.
“Gloves, sir?” said the polite shopman.
** This counter, please; we have them at all prices,
from one shilling to twenty-fire a pair. What
style do you want?” “ Better give me two pairs
of the shilling gloves,” he said. “You see, one
pair is to pay a bet, and the other is a present to
ray wife.”
“Miss Brown,” asked a little girl of her
governess, “ what was papa doing the other even-
ing when he held your hand so long ?” “ Oh, that
was palmistry, my dear.” “ Does mamma know
about it?” “No. Pa mystery again, darling.”
“And suppose she had caught you?” “I’dpal-
mysterics off on her, precious.”
Dude (to theatre doorkeeper): “ Ah,
oould you—aw—let me see—aw—Mdle. de Mont-
fort. You know her—chawming young cweature,
with blonde hair, don’t ye know. Dawnces—aw
—in the ballet.” Doorkeeper (gruffly): “No, you
ean’t see her, young feller. If you nave any mes-
sage, give It me. I’m her grandson.”
In New York the custom of rehearsing
the marriage ceremonv is so frequent that the
various ohurches are nearly always occupied In
the evening for that purpose. It is understood,
however, on such occasions that the ceremony of
kissing the bride need not be rehearsed. Kissing
is a natural exercise which requires no practice
save for stage purposes.
An exasperated male correspondent in-
forms us that he baa weighed his wife’s new sum-
mer bonnet, and fiads it positively worth, accord-
ing to the milliner’s demand, more than its weight
In gold. It professes to be a Paris pattern, and its
price is five guineas. Placed in the scales against
five sovereigns, it sailed skywards, he says, while
the gold touched the bottom.
W« shall have dinging skirts again ap-
parently, for the hoop idea seems to have terri-
fied and shocked most people. Felix, the famous
Parisian dressmaker, has absolutely declined to
construct any gowns on the hoop principle, and
as the fashion-mongers must make some change,
they ean only return to the tight skirt as an alter-
native to the objectionable crinoline.
An examination. Professor (to first appli-
cant): “Name and age, sir?” First student:
“Abner Basoom; age, seventeen.” Professor (to
second applicant): “ And yours, sir ?” Second
Student: “ Phineas Bascom : age, seventeen.”
Professor: “Brothers?” 8.8.: “Yes, sir.” Pro-
fessor: “Twins?’ S.Si (doubtfully): ” Well, ye-es;
twins on our father’s side. We’re from Salt Lake.”
Testy old Colonel (who objects to married
officers being in his regiment, to subaltern about
to marry): “ What the devil do you want to get
married for ? ” Love-Bick Lieutenant: “Please, sir,
I should like to have a wife of my own ” Com-
manding Officer: “Pooh, pooh I Never heard of
such a thing. Wife of your own, indeed I Why,
anybody’s wife is good enough for a youngster
like you i ”
W« hear of a volume being brought out
which is to he “ devoted to women of mark.”
There are few right-thinking husbands who would
not like to see the names of their wives in the pub-
lication. Is not the flat-iron a familiar feature in
every heme? (If the point of this remark is lost on
you, feel all over your head till you find the spot,
and look us in the eye and tell us if your wife is |
not a “ woman of mark.”)
*•-*>Although Bavaria has a mad king, it is
far from being a mad couatry. It has just enacted
a marriage law which entitles it to first plaoe
among commonsense nations. Couples who come
to have their hands joined must show that they
possess sufficient means to maintain themselves.
If, duriDg the preceding three years, either have
reoeived help from toe public funds, or if their
taxes be in arrear, they will be denied the legal
ligature. This is tne sort of people the Victorian
Shaokell would like to rule over.
A new league, called the Knights of
Labour, numbering at present some hundred
thousand members, and with various centres in
different parts of Canada, issues the following
suggestive proelamation: — “ We are sworn to
defend the lives and reputations of our members
and their families, and let no young man made up
of cheek, tight pants and shirt collar think he can
destroy the virtue of a wife, or sister, or daughter
of one of our members. He had better make his
peace with God before he attempts it.”
In England, writes a London correspon-
dent, there is a dark whisper about a celebrated
couple hitherto credited with mutual devotion.
Yet she must have found the matrimonial yoke
exceedingly galling, for he recently detected a
suspicious and unhealthy flavour about bis matu-
tinal coffee, some of which, upon being surrep-
titiously conveyed away and analysed, was found
to oontain an element far less innocuous than
chioory. She will no longer preside at his bieak-
fast table, but will return to her friends with an
allowance.
Miss O’Gorman, the run-away nun, has
been doing good business in Napier, N.Z. She wept
once more over the woes of 16 years ago. Fancy
a woman telling the same story nearly every night
for 16 years, and always weeping at precisely toe
same point in the same story I It must be rather
a bore, though. Talking about that, what an in-
valuable woman Miss O'Gorman would be in the
Wlmmera (Yic.) district during an especially dry
season! tier husband might patent her as a new
kind of water-borer, under the title of the “ Gor-
mandlser.”
“ Pass the butter gently, Mabel,
Shove it lightly through the air;
In the corner of the dish, love,
You will find a nut-brown hair.
What fond mem’ries it awakens
Of the days ere we were wed.
When upon my fine coat collar
Oft was laid your little head;
Longingly I stroked those tresses
In the happy days gone by,
Now I strike them every meal time
In the butter or the pie.”
A lady, not long since married to a wealthy
baronet, appeared at a county ball in London the
other night, arrayed In white; not glossy, glitter-
ing white, which is eminently bad style, but softest,
deadest, clinging white. The most remarkable
things about her, however, was that one fair
white rounded arm was supported in a wonderful
sling of beautifully embroidered silk, fastened on
with diamond stars. She had met with a slight
accident, which, however, she was determined
should not prevent her attending the ball; so she
devised this pretty sling, and threw her more for-
tunate—or, as it proved, less fortunate—rivals in
the shade.
The marriage ceremony is to be revised,
and “love, honour, and obey” expunged. The
following ritual is recommended : “ You take this
woman for your wife, if she consents?” “ Yes.
please.” “She is to make any money for herself,
by any oalling she may wish, and is to keep it?
“Yes, please.” “She is to keep your money and
her own money without any control of yours?”
“ Yes, please.” “If after marriage you come in
for any money, it is to be settled on her beyond
your control?” “ Yes, please.” “Whatever you
now possess, may in the future possess, by inheri-
tance or labour, is to be wholly and solely hers?”
“Yes, please.” Here follows the nuptial benedic-
tion.
“Did I love any other girl?’* repeated a
prespectlve bridegroom, in answer to the tearful
query of his intended. “Why, darling, of course
not. This heart knew no wakening until the sun-
shine of your lore streamed in and woke it to
ecstasy ” And then he went home and said to
himself: “I must hurry these things out of the
way, or there’ll be a row;” and he collected a pile
of letters, written in all kinds of feminine hands,
with lots of faded flowers, and photographs, and
locks of hair, and when the whole collection had
been crammed inte the kitehen grate, he drew a
deep sigh, and said to himself: “There goes all
that’s left of fourteen undying loves—let ’em
flicker.”
In the recently-published memoir of Adam
Black, of Edinburgh, there is told this little story
of the Rev. John Colquhoun, of Leith, a severely
orthodox Scotchman who was a theological light
In the early days of this century: “ On one sacra-
ment Sunday morning’, his wife, being desirous to
have him nioely rigged out for the oeoasion, had
his ooat well brushed, his shirt white as snow, and
his bands hanging handsomely on his breast; and
when she surveyed her gudeman, she was so de-
lighted with his oomely appearance, that she sud-
denly took him round the neck and kissed him.
Johnny, however, was so offended by this oarnal
proceeding, that he debarred his wife from the
sacrament that day."
A lady of rank has opened a milliner’s
shop at the West End, London, As she always had
a taste for making bonnets, she has made up her
mind to put that taste to a practical test by going
into business on her own acoount. It is said that
numbers of people are Hooking to her rooms, and
she is regarded as quite a benefactor to her
patrons. The next thing will be that duohesses
will sell gloves, marchionesses make maDtles,
countesses sell costumes, baronesses make artifi-
cial flowers, and younger sons become tailors.
Already a duke’s son has become a stockbroker,
another a grocer, aud many scions of the nobility
are touts for wine merchants. It is very nearly
time that they did begin to do something for their
living.
High class hysteria abounded round
Brighton Beach (Via.) one day in the glad Christ-
mas-time. The enterprising proprietor of a bath-
ing establishment down there, 'wishing to accom-
modate all seotions of the community and
accumulate riches, agreed with the publio to
admit females for a certain time, and when they had
disported themselves in the briny a signal was to
bo given, time allowod for the ladies’ toilettes, and
then ihe sultry males were to take their turn in
the waters of the deep. All went well until the
bell rang for the sportive nymphs to “ get out and
get,” but then, through some misunderstanding,
this was taken by the men for the straight tip
that the dark blue ocean was now at . their dis-
posal, and they trooped In. Words cannot describe
that harrowing scene.
A “ trifle light as air ” caused some fun at
the reserve ball, in Hobart, last December. A
gentleman holding a r cry high social position—in
fact, the most eligible widower in Tasmania—and
a young lady present were very conspicuous by
their marked devotion to each other. At one time
they withdrew from the seene, probably to study
astronomy or disenss politics, and afterwards,
returning to the ball-room, promenaded in bliss-
ful ignorance of a tuft of white down clinging to
the gentleman’s whiskers. There was no evidence
to shew how it got there, but the significant fact
that the neck of the lady’s dress was elaborately
trimmed with swansdown made even the wall-
flowers smile. At this said ball a married lady
was generally voted belle, until a dissenting mas-
culine voice remarked: ‘‘Too mnoh, Mrs. , too
little dress!”
A young runaway oouple get married in
New York the other day under rather uncomfort-
able circumstances. It was night, and the loving
ones, after having galloped from the paternal roof
both on the same horse, drew up in front of the
magistrate’s house and demanded that Me should
oome out In the drenching rain and tie the knot
instanter, as theyjwere being pursued. The license
was produced and the justice suggested that they
should alight and enter his Meuse to be married,
but the couple refused on the plea ef laek of time.
The obliging magistrate therefore called npon a
passer-by to lend the shelter of his gamp to the
happy though drenehed pair, and the eeremeay
was gone through there and then. The Mrida, who
was young and pretty, evidently gave little heed
to the saying, ** Happy is the bride the sun shines
upon.”
If there was one thing mere than another
on which we were prepared te stake eur immortal
soul, it was on the severe morality ef those high-
toned gatherings known as " socials.” Bean
feasts, Sunday-school plonlcs, free and easys, and
revivalist meetings we have leng learned to look
upon with the eye of suspioion, but socials we
innocently regarded as hotbeds of virtue. Ima-
gine, then, our distress at reading the following
ad. in the Melbourne AOK;-“ Lady toek fur-oape
from Mrs. ’■ social; return. Receive own;
save further trouble; nam# Tmovm. Here, at one
fell blow is broken down the fabrie of an ancient
faith. We have heard of ladies being robbed of
their reputations at society’s “ socials,” but never
imagined that their fur-capes were in jeopardy.
This matter is downright serious. Fur-oapes are
often new, whereas reputations are usually
damaged articles that nobody misses muoh,
Miss Danina Hood passed in six subjeots
at the annual examination of the Maryborough
(Q.) Girls’ Grammar School. There is nothing ex-
traordinary in this faot. The Hood family are
olever. But the name—Danina;—
Shade of the only Dan,
The one, the ever-genial,
The soft-large-grey-eyed man
Whoso gravest sins are venial;
From his they took the name
The fair Miss Hood was given,
She " passed In six,” gained fame—
She could have passed in seven.
Her school-mates, sweet and good,
Fair Nelly, Nan, and Nina,
Passed in but five, Miss Hood
Scored six -well done, Danina.
London now has a Worth of its own—a
Colonel who is rapidly working up an aristocra-
tic connection. He is an impoverished baronet,
who was until quite recently one of the Equerries
to the Queen. He designs all the dresses himself,
takes the measures, tries the garments on with his
own hands, and is said to have wonderful skill in
his adopted profession. Strangely enough, his
business does not prevent his still mixing in the
aristooratio gatherings for which he provides many
of the brightest dresses. This precedent, if fol-
lowed, seems likely to lead to some little unpleas-
antness. If dressmakers are admitted te society
gatherings, tailors may also be made eligible, and
it would be “ doosid awkward, you know,’ tp
that your vis-a-vis for the first quadrilM^wiiit no#
tailor who had deolared his intention of su rig you
for the dress-suit you were wearing. Further
complications might also ensue. Tour shoe-
maker might be a rival, and it would give him a
fearful pull If he could show Dulcinea your un
paid bills for two year’s boots. On thinking the
matter over, we certainly do hope that the prece-
dent will not be followed.
It’s just about time a woman’s marriage
rights were adjusted here as in America, where
what she possesses is her own just the same after
as before marriage. The following will serve to
illustrate the injustice of things as they are.
About three years ago a woman residing in Vic-
toria was deserted by her, better half, but, instead
of bemoaning her hard lot she set her shoulder
to the wheel, and got along remarkably well with-
out him. In time she was enabled to take a hotel,
where she made money* But just before Christ-
mas her long-lost husband turned up, bringing
with him haif-a-dozen pals, whom he treated in
the most liberal manner at his wife’s expense. It
was in vain the poor woman protested, as she was
told that she had no claim to her own property
whilst she had a hubby, so there he stays, and is
likely to do so long as there is anything to gain by
so doing.
Harry Bossenee, commission agent at
Thargomindah, Q., has accepted a novel line of
business. A rich young lady, matrimonially in-
clined, has authorised him to secure her a husband,
upon whose value she will pay four per cent. The
“value” of the elected will probably be deter-
mined after due trial. L?t us apply
Harry, we have read your ad.,
And a husband to her liking
We can “ do,” a likely party,
Kind and wise, and rather striking ;
Always bright, and gay, and hearty,
Rich (in cash by uncle lent,
Int’rest more than four per cent)
We are he, old son, and on it
Wire at once; this such a chance is,
We can stand a pot upon it,
She cannot withstand our glances,
Backed up by a Sydney bonnet—
Something new to Thargomindah—
Wire at once, you husband-vendor.
The “Dress Improver” possesses a name
to which it has no right. Where is the improve-
ment ? Does it consist in the absorption of half
as much material again as is necessary for the
manufacture of a useful garment, or is it to be
found in the fact that in a church or an omnibus
the wearer largely encroaches on the space
allotted to otherß ? Is the improvement discover-
able in the Inartistic and unnatural addition
which it makes to the contour of the human
form, or is it worn because some women cannot
do without a follower ? In the kitchen it is most
unquestionably out of place, and it has recently
proved its unsuitability to that region by causing
the death of a female at Stoke Newington. She
was making pastry, and at the same time wearing
a dress improver of large proportions. The wind
wafted her garments into the fire, very soon she
was in a blaze, and death speedily ended her suf-
ferings. But does the fickle goddess care ? Not
she; a thousand women maybe burnt to death,
yet at her bidding ten thousand more will rush to
purchase dress improvers, and until Fashion takes
it into her silly head to devise some new difigure-
ment, her votaries will persist in carrying about
with them this absurd excrescence of strings and
steel.
A man, who is evidently a champion of
married life, has published a book entitled “ How
to he Happy, though Married; being a Handbook
to Marriage.” It’s an amusing book, and full of
good advice to both sexes. There is a whole chap-
ter devoted to marriage-made men, and, although
the author doesn’t quite hold with the views put
forth by one or two ladies from the Woman’s
Rights platform that fiolomsn owed his wisdom to
the number of his wives, still he instances Bis-
marck, John Stuart Mill, and Lord Beaconsfiela as
men whose successes in life can be traced to the
Influence of their wives. Archbishop Whately once
defined a woman as “a creature that doesn’t reason,
and pokes the lire from the top,” but then since his
day the higher education of women has conduced
much toward altering their position, and their
ideas as to poking a fire. Amongst the funny
stories there is one which tells of a rustic bride-
groom who, upon being asked if he would take
his partner to be his wedded wife, replied, with
shameful indecision: “Yes, I'm willin’, tho’ I’d a
much Bight rather have her sister;” and another
he relates of how a Scotch lady, upon being con-
gratulated upon the wedding of her daughter,
replied: “ A weel, upon the whole it’s very satis-
factory ; it is true Elsie hates her gude mon; but
there is always something, and it might have been
something worse.” Altogether this book is pleas-
ant reading, and may be called a complete hand-
book tp an earthly paradise.
Universal fuse and popular approval have
indissolubly established the fame of Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Heltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
JErated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Mb. Dh Coubot Browns (late Deputy-
flhairwian of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
How to be happy. See that every room
I in your house is made beautiful and pleasing to
the eye. First look at your dressers, sideboards,
eabinets, mantels, tables and toilet stands, and re-
move what is displeasing, then visit Bray Bros’,
ohina and glass shops, 403 and 404 George-street,
and replace these with Europe’s latest novelties,
A visit is invited, whether a purchaser or not.*
That weakness and lassitude in fast-growing
I children, may be easily remedied by a few doses of
American Co.’s Hop Bitters. Read
I The exceptional increase in the sale of Wolfe’s
Sahnapps may be attributed to its marked superi-
l ority over other Spirits.
“SOMETHING OUGHT TO BE DONE.”
The highly-indignant Teleobaph man
Is here seen blushing behind hi* fan,
For it seems that small boys go to swim
Without the slightest regard to him
Or anyone else who seeks, afloat,
Amusement in yacht or rowing-boat;
All round the harbour, in they pop,
Regardless of editor, shark, or “ cop.” :
Regardless of leaders—they only laugh
When they read in the Daily Teleobaph
That “ something really ought to be done”
To stop this highly immoral fun;
But nothing is done, and the editor man
He keeps on blushing behind his fan.
IN CHURCH AND OUT.
In.
O, Lord, we pray Thee end the drought,
That’s parching all the grain,
And, of the goodness of Thy heart,
Pour down a copious rain,
Out.
O, my; look here, it’s raining hard I
I’ll spoil ray nice new feather I
I can’t see what’s the sense of this
Beal nasty, dirty weather I
Moral.
It’s a wise woman knows her own mind.
The Old Story.
A-down the dim, tree-sheltered glade,
Musk-soented gusts were breathing
Sott Inoense, while the wild vines swayed
Their bright blue hlosscmed wreathing;
Hid in the ti-trees clustering sheaves
The jay sat with his charmer,
And laug'aed his love-song (in his sleeves
’Twould otherwise alarm her).
The gnarled, low, twisted, apple tree,
Held, too, its featherei lovers;
And, screamiDg in their ecstaey,
Flew by, a pair of plovers;
The native poplar heard the suit
The tiny tit was pleading,
While, ’mid the lemon’s ripening fruit,
The ’keet her mate was heeding;
High in the iron-bark’s brown arms
The butcher-birds were billing,
And ’neath the wattle’s golden charms,
The wonga love was trilling—
The wild white violets, as we trod,
Seemed e’en to grow in union,
And, peeping from the verdant sod,
To bloom in sweet communion.
Down where the silver wattles drooped,
Their sea-green withes in wonder,
I stayed May gently, ere I stooped
(’Twas Cupid urged the plunder),
And kissed her loving lips, ripe red,
No tale of love was needed,
No words, half meant, were idly said,
The birds my suit had pleaded.
Ere falling ’neath the sword of night,
The King of Day gold-glinted
The green, and, through clouds fleecy White,
The West, with crimson tinted,
Each bird had sought its happy nest;
We, homeward too, were wending.
And, while the sun died in the West,
My loveless life was ending;
With wreath, of sarsaparillas green,
And wattle’s golden glory,
I crowned May ef my heart the queen;
Tis but the old, old story.


A Sydney hurdy-gurdy artist accepted 60
to 80 against Beach in his race with Matterson.
He is said to have lost the amount next day to a
blind beggar who knew too much about Nap. for
the organ-grinding fiend.
Tha Lancet says that the feeling of being
drawn towards the brink of a precipice ia a de-
velopment of an impulse to exercise the faculty
of flight, which man possesses in common with
the bird. It is not necessary to go to the brink of
a precipice to excite a desire for flight. A police-
man with a warrant in his hand will excite that
desire in most men’s breasts on quite level
NOT A LIFE-PRESEBVER.
MR. BOTTLE: “HI! MATES, QOIN FOR ABAIL LET MR GO "LONG, I BAY.”
BOATS CREW: “O. BY JOVE, YES! WE MUBT TAKE WHIBKY—HANDY TO HAVE IN
CASE OF ACCIDENT.”
SO THEY TOOK WHISKY, AND VERY AGREEABLE HE MADE HIMSELF, TOO!
ground more or less rapid in proportion to the
running powers of the man “ wanted.”
A regulation has been passed by the Bris-
bane Municipal Council forbidding any person to
play any musical instruments in the streets with-
out the written consent of the Mayor. Such a
regulation in Sydney would not stop the organ-
grinders. A hurdy-gurdy is not a musical instru-
ment.
Some of our Government establishments
are like Martha—" Careful over many things,”
and the Board of Technical Education is one com-
ing under this head, according to the Goulburn
Penny Post. The secretary of the Institute there
sent certain documents to that body, aDd received
a reply in acknowledgment, and also a request for
a twopenny stamp, which he had omitted to send.
The stamp was accordingly sent, but the letter
went wrong (who was the P.M.G. ?), and again the
Board wrote for that stamp.
Our new Governor had better retrench
his household, for he has aroused the wrath of the
Burrowa Times by his audacity in bringing do
less than four aides-de-camp here with him. “It
establishes a bad precedent by making the tenure
of the Governorship of N.B.W. practicable only
to a very wealthy man.” And then the Burrowa
organ goes on to say: “ Simply because he is rich,
he should not be permitted (sic) to mount an
official establishments in excess of local require-
ments.” Just here the Burrowa Times is in error.
Our local requirements include an immense deal
of toadyism, and imagine what a chance is afforded
to tuft hunters to secure a real aide-de-camp of
the Governor (and one of them is a live lord) for
a picnic or a banquet. Evidently Carington took
our measure pretty well before he came here, and
after all the colony only pays for one of the four,
so we cannot complain on the score of cost.
Are the Rev. Dr. Jefferis and his clique to
rule Sydney in the matter of provision of places
of amusement ? Evidently, an attempt is being
made to prevent the erection of a new theatre at
the corner of Pitt and Park streets by the holy
ones who choose to meet and amuse themselves
in their own peculiar way on one day out of the
seven in a building of their own near the proposed
theatre. Jefferis is the man who recently laid
down the doctrine that it was sinful to go boating
on a Sunday, unless to go to Church, and also held
forth strongly against dressing tastefully. Seeing
that his Gospel establishment is only opened for
business one day in seven, when the theatre is
closed, his action is a selfish one. In ppite of the
f ulminations of the godly one, we predict sucoess
for the theatre, and when it is opened if Tom
Walker conducts his service in it on Sunday even-
ings, we shan’t complain, for then we shall see a
fair case of competition for public favour. Per-
haps Jefferis is afraid to face the test, though.
After all, it really is the man who oannot
write his name who makes his mark in the world.
Way up in the Forbes district, there lives a party
of this persuasion who, having a “ derry ” on a
schoolmaster, tried to get even with him in this
way. His son being akelped by the pedagogue
one day, the father instituted proceedings for
cruelty against the stirrup-leather wielder, and
brought a certificate from a chemist as the trump-
card in the ease. As he knew more about ring-
barking than he did about reading, he took it for
granted that the document was all “ square,” and
handed it up to the Bench with the self-satisfied
air of a man who held two kings, an aoe, and the
right and left bowers. When the Benoh read it
out, however, it was found the chemist had given
his client away at cost price, by declaring he had
“ examined the boy and found a lot of black marks
all over his body, but they could easily be removed
with a little soap and water.” The gentleman in
the witness-box then asked for leave to stand
down, as he was never taken so ill on suoh short
notice in all his life before. We think we have
seen this joke before somewhere. But no matter I
The Queensland Minister for Works will
shake the Civil Service of his colony to the
foundations. What between the hot weather and
a bad liver, Mr, Miles, the present Works Minia-
ter, "won’t stand it.” After biting Mr* J. J.
Clarke, the Colonial Architect, for three or four
weeks he gave him leave to resign and ou that
gentleman, whe was charged with “dllatoriness,”
not at onee availing himself of the ehance so
graeionsly afferded, the genial Miles dismissed
him. Mr. Clarks, who is admitted to be Jat the
very top of his profession—he has been successful
in soores of architectural competitions against the
best men south of the line, and was chosen by the
Queensland Government from scores of appli-
cants—was only a little while ago brought up from
Melbourne to assume the post, and vows costly
legal vengeance. While heart and liver carry on as
BUT, AS A LIFE-PRESERVER “IN CASH OF AN ACCIDENT” (WHICH REALLY DID
HAPPEN) HE PROVED TO BE A COMPLETE FAILURE.
at present, Mr. Miles defies the future. So little
does he appear te dread tan
he turned te the Railway Department and, after
another epeek of biting, “allowed Mr. A. 0. Her-
bert to send in his resignation.” That "head”
wisely consented, and will run on half-pay te
the old ian d te let things cool.
Mr. Daniel Mathews, chief engineer of that
very much patronised institution, the Maloga
(N.8.W.) Aboriginal Mission, has had various
“ nasty jars ” lately, and has fallen foul of the local
bench and a newspaper correspondent or two.
The trouble arose from prosecutions against pub-
licans for supplying aboriginal* with liquor, the
chief evidence being supplied by the pious re-
former of the erring blacks himself. Iu neither
case was a conviction obtained, and Mr. Mathews
blandly hints that the bench was packed— of course
In the Interests of the worldly publioaos. Object-
ing to the newspaper report, which certainly was
unfavourable to the case for the prosecution, and
in which the lawyer’s speoch accused him of a
suppressio veri, if not of an actual suaaestio falsi,
Mr. Mathews aired his views in print, and was
followed by one of the unregenerate, who plays
very heavy on the Murray missionary, roundly
accusing him of putting up a job in order to secure
a conviction. That is how the matter stands now.
Of oourse Dan. will be able to prove his innocence,
but just here we would ask, “Who is responsible
for the oonduct of this good work at Maloga, and
how often are the accounts audited? ” We merely
make this inquiry out of curiosity. Good and
holy men are always to the unregenerate and
worldly the objects of unmerited suspicion, and
Daniel should be careful to keep himself above
the reach of unjust suspicion.
At Tumberumba, N.8.W., several score of
the townspesple were “seeing the old year out
and the new year in,” in the ordinary hilarious
wav. They went to the local Commerelal Bank,
and raised up their voices, when the manager,
Mr. Hinder, came out to the front door, ordered
them off, and fired three revolver-shots, the last
of which entered the back of a young man named
Henry Wolfe, whose dying depositions It was found
neoessary to take. Mr. Hinder was at oaee ar*
rested. The papers have been speculating mneh
as to the cause of the bank manager’s deed of
blood; but such speculation evidences, we con-
sider, a lamentable want of insight into the main-
springs of human action. Abnormal human ac-
tion, if you like, but very human all the sune.
Let us give our idea on the subject. Mr. Hinder’s
revolver-shots directed at the yowling mob were,
in our opinion, mere exaggerations of the boot-
jack you heave at the midnight eat. Tbis la the
time bank officials make up their balances and
Bquare thiDgs generally. Hinder, a nervous man,
had perhaps been working hard and was unable
to sleep; the howling of the erowd maddened
him, and he turned upon them with the first avail-
able weapon, which happened to be a pistol kept
for the protection of the bank, very pos-
sibly it was not drink, but the exigencies
of his position that caused his nervous con-
dition. The lax control the authorities have
over roystering yahoos caused that sensi-
tive condition to bo assaulted. Out of both
came the orime. Now, in Germany the authorities
wili not allow a piano to be played with the
window open. Neither will they allow one to be
played at all after 10 p.m. without a license. It is
recognised that the Teuton, stolid as he is, would,
were these precautions not taken, be liable to lose
his self-control, and spill blood. Were Mr. Hinder
in Germany he would possibly not now stand
charged with shooting. This matter of midnight
noises is a sore one with us. It was pleasant, as
we lay ill in bed, to hear how blithely Sydney
ushered in the New Year. As soon as the town
cloaks chimed, Pandemonium broke loose, a
Babel of sound arose, the night of Pentecost
was fully come. Bells tolled in every direc-
tion. Steamers cock-a-doodie-doo-ed, cannons
banged, fireworks fizzed and sputtered, bon-
fires crackled, men shouted, women shrieked,
and children yelled in every known lan-
guage ; pianos tinkled, fiddles squeaked, dogs
yowled, cocks crowed, cats miawed, and every
rattletrap in town raced past our windows witn
much whip-cracking on part of the driver, and
discordant carolling from the inebriated passen-
gers. The supper party next door opened fire at
12 sharp. The eoncertina, played by the butcher
with the gilded dome from the shop on the other
side, was in good voice. "Greasy,” as he was
familiarly termed, sat outside on the window sill,
so as to be out of the way, for although all the
furniture was piled up in the backyard, there was
barely room for one set inside. Mrs. Todgers, thp
giver of the party, weighs at least 16 stone, and,
although she danced in her stocking feet, every
gambol she gave shook the whole terrace.
The younger merry-makers found lots of
dancing room outside on the pavement; be-
tween dances they sat on the kerb, ant
while partaking of liquid and saccharine re-
freshments, watched the orange-peel float down
the gutter, talking loudly all the timefof “ te-
morrerand Ciontarf.” Yes, there was some life
in our street, but we did not enjoy oureelves; even
the rum we swallowed between coughs was
flavourless, and tohacco-smoking is never Very
enjoyable in the dark. But our turn soon eama,
for about 8 o’clock the general felicity was marred
by a free fight, caused by Ted Barfoot’s “ bar*,” a
machinist, refusing.to stand up in the same set an
Mick Doliver’s “Judy,” who, it appeared, is em-
ployed at the Steam Laundry. Our hilarity was
now so excessive as to be painful. When the
butcher’s head was thrust through the hello ws-
part of the conoertina, while the keyboards
floated peacefully away, we could no longer con-
tain ourself, we took a side in the affray, and
cheered it on, while we dropped articles of furni-
ture on the heads of the other fellows.
“ The South Imperial olaim (?), Buninyeng
(Vie.), had a narrow escape from deatruotien by
fire on Christmas Ere.” So says the Ballarat
Courier. Wrong again, Bateman; the claim
couldn’t burn, old man—you mean the buildings.
Try soda next year: it will fill you up with fact
and fizziness. There is only one olaim which oan
be destroyed by fire, and that is a journalist’s
olaim to joy in the Hereafter. No Press passes a tt
issued by Peter.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-atreet.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a tonic and stimulaa
which cannot be surpassed. Ask for and obtain
Wolfe’s.


SOCIAL
The Highland gathering held at Moore
Park on New Year’s Day was in every respect a
bril.lant success. The braw Scots wore their aln
pioturesque costumes. The effect of the bagpipes,
which were played from time to time, was evi-
dently soothing to the Scottish ears. Hignland
dances, flings, reels and hornpipes helped to en-
liven the day, and, to crown all, Lord and Lady
Oarington visited the ground in the afternoon.
His Excellency claims to be half or quarter, or at
any rate a fraction of a Soot, his own
mother being a Drummond, so the gillies
made friends with him in no time, and
oheered bim lustily. A Scotch concert in
the evening was attended by a big crowd.
• 9 *
Our new-comers (the Caringtons) visited
the Soudan Enoampment on Thursday last, and
hot only expressed their pleasure at the rather
novel appearance of the fair, but made between
them not a few substantial purchases. They
didn’t need the artioles one bit, of course, but it’s
Just another striking instanoe of their amiability
and charitableness.
* a *
At Lady Carington’s reception, the other
day, not a few ill-bred people showed execrable
taste in presenting themselves at Government
House shortly after 2 o'clock. The reception was
announoed for 4 o’clock I But as long as they
were first, they didn’t mind a two hours’ wait—not
they. ThB only mistake was that they weren’t
shown into the kitchen.
* a «
The members of the Sydney Lledertafel
serenaded Government House last Monday night,
and were afterwards refreshed by champagne,
wine, in the ball-room. It was a graceful act
•nthe part of the Lledertafel, and a un que sight to
see the SO hlaok garbed forms standing in the
persh, with flashes of white ties, and an occasional
diamond stud, each with his music-stand lighted
up with a Chinese lantern, whilst the stream of
harmony on the still night air was immensely fine.
Mr. Prank Brewer was In excellent voice, and
Delaney controlled his vooal band admirably on
this oeeasion. Lord Oarington was presented with
a golden lyre by Miss Jennings, and expressed
himself highly gratified by the compliment paid
him.
* * ¥
A pleasant picnio was given at Penrith, on
New Year’s Day, by Mr. J. W. Single and Miss
Single. About 60 were present, and a very enjoy-
able day was spent.
* * *
A very agreeable party was given by Mr.
W. P. Keely, in Lynton. Parramatta, on New
Year’s Eve, injhonour of the approaching marriage
•f his eldest daughter to a gentleman lately a resi-
dent of that historic borough. The marriage Is to
be celebrated in St. Patrick's Cathedral, on Mon-
day next.
Wednesday, January 6,1886.
DEARPBG,—Those ever-recurring, never-ending
holidays are really at an end, and we may look
forward to domestic quiet, with regular supplies
•f bread and butter and meat, for another three
weeks, at any rate.
Being of a gregarious turn of mind, I went with
some friends on Wednesday to Newtown to see
the oorner-stone of the extension of Bt. Paul’s
College laid by Lord Oarington.
The oeremony was fixed for three, and long
before that time there was a goodly crowd of the
“ upper ten ” assembled. At 3 o’clock, Lord and
Lady Oarington arrived with Miss Harbord, accom-
panied by Captain Terry, A. D.C , in an open car-
riage. The usual outriders (orderlies, more cor-
reotly) were supplemented this time by postilions
and footmen In the rumble, which has no end of a
line effect, I can tell you. Apropos of nothing.
Lord Carington’s livery Is the quietest you could
well imagine—so quiet, in fact, that I cannot re-
call the colour even.
Next Lord Oarington stood the Primate,
Sir Alexander Stuart (who looks desperately ill),
the Bishop of Goulburn, the Warden of St. Paul's,
Mr H. Sharp, and many others. Lady Oarington
and Miss Harbord had seats just opposite, slightly
sheltered from the blazing sun by some friendly
trees. On one side of them was the Chancellor,
Sir William Manning, and Lady Stuart; on the
ether, Lady Manning and Mrs. Barry.
The usual foundation laying formula was got
through, after a short telling address from
the Primate, whose platform oratory, so full
ef terse, aptly chosen English, is a treat to hear, and
Lord Oarington proceedad with calm deliberation
te place the stone. It was quite too funny to
watch the profound expression with whioh he
spread the mortar, smooching It again and again,
that ne crevice might escape, and, pressing the
■tone in its plaoe with the absorbtion of a master-
mason, bent upon a critioal task, finally wiping the
teowelonthe frayed-out end of the suspending
ropel This was not the only honour conferred
by lordly bands, for a brick was also put into
Msitlon before cheers announced that the deed
was done, and the work of this trowel and mallet
Mmpleted, whioh, by the way, was presented to
Lord Oarington by Mr. H. Sharp’s handsome little
boy. Master Granville Sharp.
At the conclusion of the Primate’s address, an
•bilging student took round the plate, and was so
successful aa to oolleot £167 towards the building
fend. After the proceedings were pronounced to
be fittingly finished, there was a general move to-
wards the oollege, in whose refectory were spread
saeb good things as pass man’s understanding to
assist.
Tbe dais and of the vaulted hall was gay with
•hands sf flowers and ferns, while the wans were
bang with zamia fronds. Here all came to chat
fer a while, before facing the still hot westering
S«n. Lord and Lady Oarington, with their party,
Jeft about 4 o’clock, to delight the heart of the
Soudan Encampment, whence I saw them return-
ing later, carrying lovely bouquets.
Now, as to garments, that never falling souroe
©f feminine amusement. Lady Cariagtou was in
perfection of an ivory white dress, the body
•f cashmere, the skirt of Indian silk, with a full
waistcoat of the silk caught in at the throat and
waist by strange Oriental gold clasps, and then
drifting away into the skirt drapery, after a pretty
no-snd-or-beginning fashion, the same sort of
chenille gold lace balls at her sleeves. Her bon-
net was ivory and gold, with ribbon bows la front,
Ivory parasol. Miss Harbord wore a simple navy
blue zephyr with an odd mediaeval pattern in
white, a waistcoat of pale blue sills with touches
at the wrist of the same, blaok lace toque with
red ribbon velvet bows, and red parasol. Lady
Manning was in a handsome black silk and velvet
ooatume, with black and gold bonnet. Lady
Stuart also in blaok, with touches of gold. Mrs.
Barry, in a small blaok aad white oheofc silk,
oovered with Chantilly lace flounces, black laoe
mantle, and bonnet. Mrs Hey Sharp, in grey,
trimmed with cream Spanish lace.
Among the many faces I saw Sir Alexander and
Lady Stuart, Miss Stuart, the Bishop of Goulburn
and Mrs. Thomas, Hon. C. Campbell, Miss Camp-
bell, Hon. E. Kaox, Mrs. and Mies Knox, Mrs. H.
Mort, Mrs. O’Briea, Mrs. A. Macarthur, Miss Enid
Maearthur. Mrs. Garsten, Mr. and Mrs. Purves, Mr.
and Mrs. C. Hogg, Mrs. and the Misses Wilkinson,
Mrs. Murray, Mr. and Mrs. Hanbury Davies,
Colonel and Mrs. Airey, Mr. and M rs. H- C. Bus-
sell, the Misses Russell, Mrs. and Mrs. B. R. Wise,
Dr. aud Miss Garran, Dr. Anderson Stuart, Profes-
sor Walter Scott, Dr. Corlette, Rev. Mr. Jackson,
Mrs. Jackson, Rev. Mr. .Wolton, Mrs Wolton, Rev.
C. Priddle, Miss Priddle, Rev. A. W. Pain, Mrs.
Pain, Rev. G. North ash, Mrs. Ash, Rav. Mr.
Relton, Rev. Mr. Bartlett, Rev. G. Baker, Mrs.
Baker, Mr. J. J. Calvert, Mr. G. Knox, etc.
The event of the week has been Lady Carington’s
reoeption. Last Thursday afternoon—the last day
of the old year—the inaugural step of the new
regime be came an actual fact. Government House
opened wide its doors to receive the multitude of
folk who crowded to pay their homage to Lady
Oarington.
These initial receptions are only opportunities
fot a large proportion of the community to get a
glimpse at the sacred precincts of vice-royalty,
Which would not otherwise be theirs. In this
instance, public curiosity has been so long on the
qui vive that none who had the remotest shadow
of ambition failed to present themselves to their
Excellencies, “ and there were present the Pioi-
ninies, the Joblillies, and the Grand Panjan-
drum himself, wi h the little round button
at the top.” No similar occasion has ever
attracted so great a crowd of wealth, excellence,
or pretention to Government House, Sydney.
It was a golden opportunity for the thoughtful
student of human nature to stand aside near the
entrance, and simply watch the effect of novelty,
wealth, title, and fresh geniality upon each new
arrival. Some faced the ordeal of introduction
with urbane indifference, others with cheery pa-
tronage. Some appeared like sheep led to the
slaughter, others beamed with benignity, others
again with stolid passivity, which probably was a
covering for a quaking interior. Altogether.it
was most diverting.
As you may imagine, the crush was tremendous.
Long before 4 o’clock the carriages were
swarming down Macquarie-street, and the drive
to the House was lined two deep with vehicles,
either waiting to deposit their occupants or in
line of waiting.
The usual form of writing one’s name in book
in the lobby was dispensed with on this occasion
in favour of cards, but as the alteration was only
made known that morning, many came unpre-
pared for the change, and naturally failed to be
recorded in next day's papers.
Government House has undergone a change,
actively Is well as passively, for footmen in knee-
breeches and white silk stookings, buckled shoes,
&c., have effaced the hired waiter style so much
affected here by the happy possessors of men-
servants. (This ugly custom always seems to me
one of the hereditary traits of the early struggles
of the first colonists which has come out in their
grand-children as careful economy.) The time-
honoured Joseph, too, was superseded most
agreeably by the aides, in full uniform,
who conducted us through halls and draw-
ing-rooms to the verandah, where Lord and
Lady Oarington stood. Here Mr. Walling-
ton, private secretary, learnt our names and
presented us with smiling courtesy to Lord and
Lady Oarington, who accentuated their welcome
with such frank cordiality as made us at once rise
fifteen degrees in our own estimation 1 We oozed
in as quickly as possible, and soon lost ourselves
In the garden amid an ever-inereasing throng that
would gather near the centre of attraction let the
band play never so brightly, or the fountain throw
out its sparkling jets ever so freshly. Some few
more enterprising did saunter through the gar-
dens, but the majority were quite happy to find
themselves straying as far as the ballroom where
were spread tables laden with good cheer. After-
noon tea in its most varied form. Ices of the
creamiest make, claret-cup that whetted one’s ap-
preciation, bona fide cream from a real cow, deli-
cious cakes that could have been emanations from
neither Gunsler’s nor Baumann’s but from Lord
Carington’s own chef— they tasted so deliciously
real. But it must be a great trial of patience to
be kept on the tip-toe of expectation, for
naturally you are much more anxious to hear
who were the human units that made so large
a crowd, and Ihow they thought fit to attire
themselves on this momentous occasion. I shall
fail lamentably in any attempt to oonvey to you
the impression of the shifting kaleidoscope that
pleased, bewildered, astonished and alarmed
one. My naturally strong nerves are so tem-
pered by age and experience that it takes a fairish
share of surprises to wake mo out of my stolidity,
nevertheless my mind being a blank (fitting
receptivity!) upon my arrival, I found it had run
the gamut of all known interjections, and many
unknown ones besides, before the afternoon was
spent. By way of qualifying such a sweeping
clause, you shall be introduced to all that seemed
most admirable, leaving the rest to imagine
themselves “more honoured in the breach than
in the observance.” Lady Oarington looked a
perfectly-dressed English lady in indefinable blue,
with a pattern of fruit and leaves woven in in a
darker shade—high-peaked bonnet, trimmed with
lace and yellowish flowers, and a spray of natural
tea-roses at her belt—gauts de suede of the most
perfectly-fitting kind; Miss Harbord wore an
ivory dress, hidden in ivory Chantilly lace, and
ending in broad moire sash ends, transparent bon-
net with pink roses—that the touts ensemble were
perfect goes without saying. Lady Stuart
looked well in black, with gold and blaok straw
bonnet and cock’s feather aigrette; Lady Man-
ning, in black grenadine velvet and black and
gold bonnet; Mrs. Cooper, in handsome sage-
green poplin; Mrs. Mackay, a faultless costume of
black striped watered silk, with black and red bon-
net; Mrs. W. Campbell, a combination of seal-
brown corduroy velvet and silk, with bonnet en
suite; Mrs. G. B. Simpson, white Chinese silk,
trimmed with Toulon laoe and black velvet bows,
white straw bonnet and blaok velvet; Lady Jen-
nings. very handsomely dressed in black satin.
Mrs. K. L. Tooth wore a quiet dress of stone-yel-
low foulard, with a faint design of blaok fans all
over it: the Misses Throckmorton wore exquisite
dresses of ivory-satin spotted silk, and valen-
cienne lace, with vests of Indian tapestry, red
tulle bonnets,i with upstanding bows. The Masses
Manning wore charming white frocks handsomely
trimmed with panels of broad insertion, white
belts and gloves, white tulle bonnets, and black
velvet collars and cuffs; Miss Enid M’Arthur,
simple white dress, with white net bonnet and
gold aigrette. This quintette decidedly carried
the palm for careful dressing, and exemplified the
saying, “it requires the highest art to conceal
art.” Miss Florence Mitchell wore, too, a lovely
dress of soft water-wavea silk, delicately empha-
sised with panels and waistcoat of beautiful gold
and silver Indian embroidery on a gauze ground;
Miss Rolleston, a complete costume of edelweiss
lace, with waistcoat of brown velvet; the Misses
Busby, white lawn frocks and floelle lace, with
bright ribbons; Mrs. Laidley, blaok Spanish lace;
Miss M'Intyre, cream and shrimp pink; Mrs. Bou-
verie, in cream cashmere and tunic of gold Per-
sian embroidery; Miss Fosbery, in a stylish dress
of flowered delaine; Miss Ada Fosbery, white
iawD, and sailor hat trimmed with white; Mrs. C.
Hogg, black lace. Two ladies, one of whom was
in gamboge satin and cream Spanish laoe, the
other in French grey silk, disported such ample
trains as have not been seen for many a year;
while one poor, deluded man came in dress
clothes. One felt quite sorry for his Rip-Van-
Wlnkjelghtship—he must have been po uncom-
The constant stream of people did not begin to
diminish till nearly five. From this Inaugural fes-
tival not many seemed absent, In spite of the large
leaven who are out of town just now, though a
large number of gentlemen went in pasteboard
form only. It is rumoured that Lady CariDgton
intends holding monthly receptions—a most de-
sirable proceeding, though weekly ones would be
a greater boon. \
CORRA LYNN.
CORRESPONDENCE
{.Correspondents who give neither name
plMtne cannot expect to hem their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Larry M'Flynn.”: We have read the
“ old Irish song ” you sent, and have considered
the choice you offer us of being beat so that our
nearest friend won’t recognise us if we don’t in-
sert it, and of being reckoned by you the greatest
fool unhung if we do. We elect to take the beat-
ing. We’ll take it fightiDg, by your leave. It’s
several days since we ate a poet, and as for a com-
municant of bad old poetry, we have almost for-
gotten what the species tastes like. Meanwhile,
listen, Larry, extend the flap of your ear, even
If by so doing you darken the canopy of Heaven
from Karoola to Sydney. Sere’s what Charles
Gavan Duffy says, iu the preface to his collection
of the “ Ballad Poetry of Ireland.” H® condemns
“ vulgar error of treating street ballads, written
by the ballad-singers of Cork or the hedge school-
master of Kerry as the national minstrelsy of Ire-
land.” Now, Larry, come along with your shil-
lelagh, like your hero—
“ Doolan O’Dermot M‘Figg,
Who could properly handle a twig.”
—“Homo”: You ask: “If X pays for and sits
in a stall seat of a theatre, and Y jumps that seat
when X temporarily leaves It between the acts,
has X a right to re-possession of his seat on de-
mand and to turn Y out if the latter refuses to
give up said seat.” If Yis a gentleman he will
vacate the seat which he finds to have been occu-
pied by ;X. Custom and the instincts of true
politeness will both require him to do so, but, as a
matter of right, X has no valid justification for the
expulsion of Y. When you buy a stall ticket that
merely gives you the right to enter that part of
the theatre; it gives you no exclusive claim to any
one seat, but simply a joint right with others.
Therefore you oannot ask that any particular
placo should be reserved for you. In the circle, on
the contrary, you buy the absolute right of ten-
ancy of one particular seat, and are justified
In asserting your right if anyone takes your
place in your absence. In the stalls, you
are always liable to be forestalled.... “Pican-
niny-Rabbler ” : Letter received.. “ L.A.” :
Thanks. Will try to utilise “A. 8.”; You have
begun the New Year very badly. Screed only use-
ful to a hot-pie man— “F.A C. ’:The coroner may
understand exactly what the phrase “very drunk”
means, but we are not so well informed on this
point. You see we have not had his long experi-
ence in dealing with evidence... “Vox”: Etpre-
terea nihil. Sorry we overlooked, that Is, looked
over the ‘Continent.” It made us feel unwell....
“ W.S.A.” : Your screed is only humorous, and
net good at that. It takes a clever man to work
mere humour, bereft of wit, into interesting
matter—"J.D.S.” writes:— “The Bulletin is
doing great good—it’s teaching Young Australia to
feel its feet, hold up its head and walk straight
forward in a manly, honest fashion. The Colonial
Press wouid, if it could, teach the young colonist
to crau.l. I am English born, and have in the
bush enjoyed many an hour with The Bulletin,
and trust to enjoy many more with its help.” Glad
to sea that our aims are so well understood,
“J.D.S.”—“A.C.O.”: Broadly speaking, all the
advertisers to whom you refer are rank humbugs.
They all stand pretty well in the same category;
one or two of them are legally qualified, but of
doubtful character “ Musopniles ”: You jeer at
Icarus, but have many things in common with
him; like him you try to soar, but your wings,
like his, will not sustain you. Give us a slab of
something less philosophic. Your metre is cor-
reot.... “ Memo ”: Cannot publish your letter, but
agree with you that the relatives of either party
in the recent A.J.C. dispute should not have voted.
Logic, the aboriginal who recently broke
gaol in Adelaide, and escaped from a fusilade
by the warders unhurt, has been re-arrested at
Welpena, one of Dr. Brown’s stations, between
Lucira and Government Gums. He was protected
and fed by the settlers along his line of march, but
run to earth eventually by one of his own tribe.
Poor Logic is doing 15 years for layiDg his wadtiy
about the skull of a white man, who whipped and
then shot him in the leg for refusing to go horse-
hunting. Public sympathy is with the black,
whose case will probably be brought before Par-
liament at an early date.
Colonel Smith, of Ballarat, is not the man
to be ashamed of taking money for being a
patriot. The ears of almost every member in the
House were flapped forward the other night and
their breaths drawn in when he asked the Govern-
ment when the new members of Parliament would
be sworn in—or, in other words, when their pay-
ment would commence. There is no rotten pride
about him. When some wealthy member, who
could afford to be sarcastic, said to him, “ Will you
be in the new lot?” he replied promptly, “Oh,
I’m all right.” As though any sane person ever
doubted it. It will be a poor season for feathers
when Colonel Smith is not able to find enough to
line his nest with.
The Melbourne Agb tells in blood-curdling
sentences the story of a sailor who nearly sent to
a fiery end the ship Loch Etive and all her gallant
crew on the high seal. The Loch Etive, by the
way, comes from Glasgow and arrived in Hob-
son’s Bay the other night. She had on board
between 25 and 30 tons of gunpowder stored
between decks. Under the hold containing this
were several oases of bottled beer carefully packed
in straw. What does that wicked 6eaman do ?
Why, he makes his way to the hold in the cat-
watch, when all but he and the dolphin-striker
look-out were asleep, and breaks open a case of
that beer by the light of a box of matches. Tht n
he drinks himself into a state of glory and lets the
straw blaze bravely around him. Ho is discovered
in time and the ship is saved. This is all the story,
but the Age makes it a grisly warning to all who
oppose the Licensing Act. We are not able to see
the thing in this light. Our opinion is that if the
beer had been stowed in the fo’ks’le there would
have been no fire, no danger, no story, and no
moral to be drawn. There would certainly soon
have been no beer, but that is a secondary matter
when the safety of a ship and her passengers is
concerned. Merchant-service Jack has a hard
enough time of it without having to root in the
hold and risk blowing himself and all on board to
blazes to get his drink.
Woli'B’s Schnapps.—No nervous suffeaer ever
tried this wholesome stimulant without being
thankful.
’Tis sweet to sit on a mossy bank.
Between two mossy boulders,
If you are but dressed in a Summerfleld suit,
Which electrifies all beholder a.*
Invigorate the system with Wouu’s
Schnapps if you would avoid bilious attacks.
jpiUKRIXUBft SHOfF BOOMS.
3I4ADL3Y, NKWTQN, an* LAMB.
O'OoHnoU and streets, Sydney-
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDB,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
s*4
f IBKARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and 8101
JLi tables, bookcases, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
BRAWING-EOOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice CMb.s, &q.
TESY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lara'a.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradiey, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods.
and very handsome designs, with 7-f©@t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Groat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and. LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E' I&MT-POUNB BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, wash stand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £3. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
TTJMDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
JO Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass doer; WABHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towei rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANS SEAT CHAIRS, 18 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
(’I HEAP FURNITURE-Pine Tables, from 10a.
J 6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. Bd.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from M 10a,; Clothes Horses, fromlOs.Sd.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connsii streets.
~ 4>
352=3=
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
SWOiS strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
to ABY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
JOi rooms. New designs covered to order In any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Conneli-street.
Drawing-room cabinets.-Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sta.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ELEGANT NOVELTIES in BEDROOM FUR-
NIT O RE. full suites, in SATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 f old) for the Draw
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley
Newton, aDd Lamb.
st:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges, 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
’ARBLE-TQP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c.
SELF-ADJUSTING MAMMOCK CHA I £-
Patented.
fcn
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
OJ-l'Llilg LU r&tsililiilg lUIUL vtvv VCr&CAj St LIIO Will 01
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when l ( ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. fid. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
C
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Conneil streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8, 9/6; 8 x 8,11/-; 9xB,
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 12 x 8,16/6; 12 x 10. 20/-.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
275. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Conneil streets.
FURNITURE-THE LARGEST STOCKIN THE
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Springland O’Connell streets.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD
his position as leaded in athletics L,,
Foley, of Sydney, has set an example whiclS;.
lovers of sports may follow with beneflt to the
national muscular development. In addition to
establishing classes for the education of pupils in
the various branches of athletics, he personally
supervises the boxing class whioh has already
turned out more than one promising athlete.
With a view to further fostering the sport in
N.3.W. Foley will offer lor competition, id about
eight weeks time, as under:—“ For heavy weight
boxers, all comers, £100; for middle weights (list,
and under), £5O ; for light weights (lOsfc. and
under), £5O; for amateurs, open to all comers, £5O.
Marquis of QueeDSberry rules. A leading local
gentleman has offered a trophy for competion
amoDgst gentlemen amateur boxers, to take place
at a date to be fixed by the champion-. The match,
which will attract the attention of boxers, will be
under distinguished patronage.
» * *
There Is a probability of Foley’s amateur
meeting Jackson’s phenomenon in a few days, for
a trophy. If the match comes off a good battle
may be anticipated. The match will be under
Queensberry rules: four rounds.
* * *
Mathews, the N.Z. “knocker-out,” may
he expected to pay Australia a visit shortly. In
the last few months Mathews nas improved greatly
in his boxing, and may now be fit to face some of
the “good ’uns.” In spite of the fact that he has
lately done some rough work over there, we do
not forget seeing him knocked out In Dunedin by
a bushman, and so do not expect him to astonish
©ur fighters.
v • *
Not content with his defeat by Cansdell,
young M'Cafferey, the Californian collarer, la
anxious for a shy at Viotor, whom be has chal-
lenged best two Grasco-Rotnan falls. He will also
meet Donald Dinnie, Lancashire style. If this
contest comtes off It will be on the following con-
ditions: Dinnie to throw M'Cafferey four times in
an hour, if he secures four consecutive falls he
wins. If M'Cafferey throws him once in the hour
the youngster to take the pool. This Is simply an
application of the handicap system to the sport of
wrestling. If Dinnie or Victor is prepared to meet
M'Cafferey he may be found at Foley’s. Any
matches m which M'Cafferey takes part must bo
wrestled in Sydney.
Larrikinism was rampant when the hoot-
ing was indulged in by some of th« onlookers at
the conclusion of the match between the Victorian
juniors and our own players. The game stood
equally well for the Victorians as for our men,
but in any case “time” was reached, and the
game was very properly concluded. We notice
MTlwraith, the Victorian “ colt,” is in great form,
being to the fore with 125 to his credit In the first
innings of the recent test match. He should be a
oertainty for the team. Tommy Horan’s present
form does not appear to be good enough
for a place in the Eleven. He might well make
way for a younger batsman, who would improve
during the tour.
# * *
Bacing men have had a high time of it
during the past week. The Liverpool Jockey
Club raised a first-class attendance at their meet
on Wednesday, 30th. Seobeloff made rather an
easy win of the Hurdle Race from Cymbal;
Zareba, with a 10 to 1 show, appropriated the Pace
Handicap from General Gordon: and Dame
Eleanor started at even money for the Auction
Stakes, but she did not run up to expectation and
the winner turned up in Presentation. Cestus. at 8
to 1, won Our Members Cup by half-a-leDgth from
Rosebud and Goldflnder, who ran a dead heat for
second honors; and Emilius made an easy win of
the Selling Race "from Percy. Dame Eleanor led
for about half a-mile, when she threw up the
sponge, and running off the course threw her rider
against the fence.
* * *
On the 30th Sept., Judge Rountree, of the
Banta Cruz Central Criminal Court, California,
was making out the commitment of John Ken-
nedy, who had broken the law in a matter of
placing his brand on his neighbour's colt. After
being sentenced, Kennedy recollected that he had
an engagement in New York, and started fer that
city. A constable impudently interfered with
him, and John put him through the hoop in two
rounds, He was again making his way out, when
Judge Rountree, who had finished writing out
the commitment, vaulted over the rails and
pinned him. The court was still crowded by the
audience, who speedily formed a ring, and cheered
till the walls of the venerable court-house vi-
brated as the genial Judge peeled off and invited
Kennedy, a noted slogger, to come on. He came.
Ten minutes later he was carried to the cells on a
door and 30 days added to his commit, for treating
that Court with contempt. Thus is the majesty of
the law upheld on the “ Pacific ” slope. Contempt
of Court is not allowed there. And properly, too.
But if the Judge should, by any chance, be over-
thrown, it would alter the aspect of affairs.
With the judge’s head in chancery there would he
no prospect of release, and the law would probably
be delayed until its administrator wss as dead as the
Tichborne Claimant’s chances. If judges are to
enforce their own decrees, we must have compe-
tent persons on the Bench. Foley must at once
take the office and travel the circuit. Neither Sir
James, Sir Joe Innes, nor any of the other judicial
dignitaries of N.S.W. are in condition to attend to
a rusty prisoner, and it is possible at any lime that
a man may say he won’t go to gaol In that cate
Judge Foley could put him through, and the re-
mains of the culprit would be easily bandied I y a
couple of “traps.” They are nearly all game enough
to tackle a corpse. In fact, why not have a few
slogging judges who could, In cases of miner
offences, simply take the pr.soner out In the jard
and belt his sinfulness out of him. It would be a
saving to the State and do much to reduce the
criminal tendency.
The V.R.C.’a New Year’s Day meetinz at
Flemington was well attended. The first event on
the card, the Normanby Stakes, fell an easy vic-
tory to Mr. Long’s Wadelina; Duration, who
started at 10 to 1, won tha Standlsn Plate from
Bohemian; Insolvent cantered home winner of
the Hurdle Race; Sheet Anchor, at 3 to 1 oe, made
an easy victory of the Bagot Plate; Mertder an-
nexed the Steeplechase; Duration made a second
win of the Midsummer Handicap; and The Nun
fairly ran away with the Criterion Stakes. At the
Moonee Valley races on Saturday last, Caulfield
won the Maiden Plate; Lead On, the Selling Race;
Umbra appropriated the Ascot Vale Handicap.
Chester 11. annexed the Steeplechase, the second
Selling Race fell to Richworth, and Mavourneen
finished the day's sport with a win in the January
Handicap.
* * *
The 33rd anniversary Newcastle regatta
came off on New Year’s Day, and proved th«
event of the district. Twelve events were gone
through, Sydney being represented by Charles
Messenger an 4 George Ellis. The former won the
all-eomers’ race in light skiffs, and the latter sailed
the Lucia and carried off the dingy handicap from
scratch.
as ®
Tattersall’s Club may shake hands with
itself over the success or its two days’ meet on
Friday and Saturday last. The sport opened with
the Hurdle Race, which was won comfortably by
Caloola from Drummer, Michael third; Reorult
won the Flying Handicap by half a length from
His Worship; and Ellington won the Selling Race.
Tempe, who (started at 2 to 1, made an easy wia of
Tattersall’s Club Cup from Ben Bolt, Friendship
third; Tattersall’s Two-year-old Stakes resulted in
a dead-heat between Chesham and Philip Augus-
tus: Yellow Jacket, four lengths away, third;
and Peter made a win of the Ladies’ Bracelet from
Tramp. The second day’s racing opened with
the New Year’s Gift, which was appropriated by
Rosebud; Pharon won the Selling Race; Ben Bolt
reversed the order of Tattersall’s Cup, by defeat-
ing Tempe by a neck for the Oarington Stakes,
2^ r +i? a o^ a f , a away, third; Kangaroo
won the Steeplechase from Scobeloff, the Masher
running into a place: Queen of the South annexed
wi 0 1 wo-Year-Old Selling Race; and Minerva I
brought a most successful meeting to an end by «
winning the Free Handiest by three lengths from
Balmoral, Wollongong third.
• *
Strickland's Ben Bolt, winner of
rl °h Carington Stakes, is a four-year-old
horse, bred in Queensland, by Newbold from Lady
mid win. He has performed well at Northern
meetlrgs, and great will oe the run up North on
tnakejuice,” over his victory on Saturday last.
* * *
It is to be hoped that the recent drowning
cases in Sydney Harbour will be the means of
bringing forth some legislation with regard to the
overloading of boats let out for hire. It seems a
contradiction that a fine roomy waterman's skiff,
with an (xps-rieneed waterman in charge, should
he licensed as to the number of passengers she can
carry, while any of a boat the ietting-out
man ebr oaes to attach to hig fleet may be loaded
to the top streak with in experienced males and
too cocfld ng females without any restriction
from t ©authorities. This is one of those thiugs
a fellow can’t quite uDd-rstand.
• * *
The Parramatta Rowing Club held their
first regatta on New Year's Day, in the presence of
a very limited number of spectators. Balmain
« Club made a regular pienio of it, carrying
off three out of four open races:—Junior Double
Sculls, Maiden Fours, and Maiden Double Sculls.
Tbe fouith open race for maidecg in outriggers
was won by J. 8. Connolly of the North Shore
Rowing Cub. Of th® races confined to the olubs,
Doff and ;Williamson won the double sculls, and J.
Tunks the single sculls.
Tiie value of what is called “ a careful pre-
paration,” either for men or horses, is not alwayB
apparent. That some thoreugh-breds-especially
geldings—run best when they are a little “beefy '*
is an undisputed fact, and hundreds of races have
been thrown away through the obstinacy of
trainers in getting their charges “ thoroughly lit.”
The s*me argument applies to pedestrians, though
not in the same degree. It seems probable that
George impaired his ehancs>s in the trio of matohes
with Cummings by yielding to the solicitations of
lis friend* and putting himself under the care of*
professional trainer, in his amateur days, George
had been in the habit of training himself in his
e?rn way, whieh, according to conservative
nations, was a loose one. He had never been “fit”
in his lif«, said his friends. "Well, for the matches
against Cummings, they made George “ fit,” with
the result that, ia the two longer contests, the ex
amateur chtmplen did not exhibit his best staying
powers. After a “ thorough preparation,” he ap-
peared on tne track pale and anxious, and alto-
gether lacking the vital energy of the old un-
trained days.
* ■ *
The “English Bookmaker” draws a subtle
distinciion between bis two public characters of
metaliician and horse owner. As a “book” he
elects to be styled Bob “ Sutton.” On fhe k’rect
card he boldly adopts the surname of his ancestors
and appears as Mr. R. Sevior. In the capacity of
owner, he won a race at WincheJsea on Boxing
Day.
* * *
The Ballarat division are having a good
time of it. Seahorse, who landed the Caulfield
Summer Cap at the nice price of « to 1, hails from
that quarter. Mr. Howie’s horse, it will be le-
membered, was heavily supported for Rufus’s
Derby.
* v v
Mr. Edward Weatherby, of the old estab-
lished firm of Messrs. Weatherby, has thrown up
the billet of Handlcapper to the English Jockey
Club, whioh he has satisfactorily filled since the
death of Admiral Rous. Mr. Weatherby, it 1b said,
was annoyed at the interference of aristocratic
officials with his work, and retires in disgust.
Lerd Westmoreland, a proud noble, who has been
* knocked out” for the last SO years, is whispered
as a likely successor to Weatherby. With a lord
for starter, and an earl of long desoent for handi-
eapper, the English turf should be more high-
toned than it is.
* * *
A good many of the unhappy publie burnt
their fiDgers over Grace Darling ior the Caulfield
Summer Cup. When battlDg opened, baokers
rushed to take the apparently liberal price of
a to 1 about Mr. Reid's grand mare, who, on paper,
was a good 2 to 1 chance. However, they were
out of their misery before tbe flag fell, for the
Caulfield Cup winner was summarily knocked out
to twenties, and probably any price in reason
could have been had for the asking. It is a pity to
see such a popular idol as Grace Darling running
for an event when the market proclaims that
there is no likelihood of her winning; but, beyond
a few yrumblings, the affair excited little com-
ment Uackers h:d reasonable grounds for com-
plaint, too. Grace Darling's retrog&de movement
m the betting is charitably accounted for by the
"out of form” theory. If the mare was out of
form, why leave her in the race, that the public
not in the know ” should inevitably suffer ? Such
a policy pursued with Commotion would have
impoverished half Victoria.
Mr. Pearson’s clever oross country mare,
Lady Ashton, has a nasty habit or swerving
towards the end of her journeys. In the Handicap
Steeplechase at Caulfield, on Boxing Day, she
brought Narrunr to grief at the sod-wall through
swerving in front of him, and at a previous fence
the jade cannoned heavily against Mernder. Nar-
rung was going splendidly at the time of the mis-
hap, and might have won but for her ladyship’s
misconduct. Over the same course, on the me-
morable Cup Day, she played a wore© trick on
Studley at the very last fence, and within a
stone s pitch of the judge’s box. The pair wtre
having the finish to themselves, when Mr. Pear-
son s mare—evidently tiring-ran right out of th*
course, and carried Studley with her. With her
impetuous style of going and grand fencißg
powers. Lady Ashton must be regarded as some-
what of a fiat-catcher whom backers will do well
to avoid when the course is more than two miles
and the company sufficiently speedy to keep near
her. When fairly collared she will always show
the white feather.
* * *
Another Australian eleven is about to
travel through England in pursuit of gate-money
and glory.
* * *
From Mudgee we learn that the racehorse
Wing, who has distinguished himself by so many
brilliant failures, has just been re christened, and
will in future be known as “ The Fraud.”
* * *
A correspondent writes“ Tour Nimble-
foot notice last issue is slightly erroneous, it was
not Watson, but John Day, the celebrated boy
walker and jockey, who steered him in the Mel-
bourne Gap of '7O. Nimblefoot would seem to bo a
horse of fatalities, for, strange to say, Day died in
the Inglewood hospital about the same time as the
Cup winner died at Ps ken ham. The celebrated
bet made to Craig was £lOOO to sight cigars, and
was laid by old Slaok, the then leviathan double-
eventer, and it stood as Croydon fsr the A.J C.
Metropolitan and Nimblefoot for the Cup. The
year after the Cup win, Nimblefoot won tae Aus-
tralian Cup for Mr. H. H. Hoskins, and then passed
over to Mr. W. H. Laug, his old trainer. He had
been pensioned at Pakenham, Mr. Thomas Henty’s
station, for some time, but being short of horses,
the manager allowed one of the station hands to
use Panic’s celebrated son, who had barely started
to canter, when he dropped down dead. Wa want
a second Gordon now to sing the requiem of
Nimblefoot, Craig, and Day.'*
* m «
Wo hear the parents of the scullers Mat-
terson have taken Williams’ Hotel at Gladesville.
There ard no less than eight boys in the Matterson
family, of whom Neil is the eldest, and, as they all
take kindly to the water ? we may have N.B. W. one
day issuing a challenge for the eight brothers
Matterson to row any other eight brothers the
world can produce, a defl- she woiild be able to
issue with pretty good confidence, we fanoy. The
Phriphuont residence on the river should give Nell
Matterson a knowledge of the champion course
whioh may stand him In good stead in years to
come.
* * *
The new official stand at Randwiok is well
enough in its way, but to us it appeal's that it has
taken too large a Slice out of the saddling pad-
dock. The penoilmen hold possession of toe fair-
way, compelling ladits bound for the grand-stand,
who do not care to elbow their way through the
crowd, to enter by the back way. With such
limited space, it is not safe to jv ft lk amongst the
horses We think it is high time the bookmakers
were moved on— say to the end of the lawn, where
they can cry the odds till they are hoarse. The
Jockey Club have worked hard to make the official
and grand-stand people comfortable, but they ap-
pear to entirely overlook the poor devfs who stew
in the Leger enclosure. There is not a seat to rest
upon in the appropriately termed Leger “stand.”
It is the small fry who keep the affair going, for a
crowded paddock would scarcely make a day’s
racing a success in the face of a deserted flat. The
shiMogites deserve more consideration at the
hands of the A. J.G.
v * * .
Kelso’s stable was very lucky at the New
Year's meeting, thanks to Willie M'Dowall, who Is
well trained at starting. He made good use of
his training by finishing in front in three races.
* • v
Temoe, the winner of the Summer Cup
and Tattersali’s Cup, was just beaten in the Car-
irgton Stakes by the Bacaoalander, Ben Bolt.
Tnere Is no doubt she would have won the treble
bad she nut had so many close friends In the race
who blooked her throughout. The dally Press
was very severe on M’Auliffe, and he, no doubt,
thinks it rasher hard he should be blamed for his
brother jock*’ close, If unkind, attentions. A re-
port has been going the rounds that the Hon.
James White has presented Tempo to Lady Car-
ington, but we fanoy we are pretty safe in saying
the rumour is without foundation. The Hou.
James might just as well give her away, though,
as race her again, for she will be weighted out of
future events She was handicapped at »st. 81b.
for Tattersail’s Cup. For th# Anniversary Handi-
cap she Is down at Bit. flib.
• • 0
Peter has been taken down at last after
scoring five wins out of six starts, but he was not
disgraced, as it took one of the Melbourne Cup
placed horses to defeat him, and in fast time at
that.
* * *
Mr. James Perry certainly deserves a word
of praise for his success in successfully working
the immense crowd who visited Raadwick on
Friday and Saturday last.
* * *
We feel pretty sure the Starters’ Chair
was never intended to hold two, as on Saturday
last. During the last race Messrs. Gannon and
Forrester occupied it, and by a coinoidero)
the latter’s horse got first away and was the firs'
tb return to scale. We notice also that the
Judge s box was also double-banked. How Rand-
wick can boast of an official stand it Would be Just
as well if the timekeeper took the time from it
and allowed the judge the full use ef his hex.
Mr. H. 8. 8; Bond has issued a pamphlet
b® somewhat enigmatically calls the
Working Men a and Farmers* victory over Free-
trade. It contains several letters by the author
to the Sydney Dailt lelbgbaph, together with
the woulo-be saroestic. and certainly evasive, re-
S les by the editor of that journal; a letter from
tr Pulsford, and another irom Mr. B. R. Wise,
weariy all the matter has been published in the
D.T. quite recently, but Mr. Bond apparently
issues the brochure to accentuate tfte fact that he
threw out a distinct challenge which neither the
D.T. nor Mr. Pu sford cared to accept. As the
theatres frequently playafaroe at the finish of a
performance, so Mr. Bond doses his pamphlet
with a burlesque. He announces his political
principles. Any opinion upon any trivial point of
politics is called a principle now. Real principles
are never enunciated in these days, but a stated
opinion on the 17th clause of the Dog Act even is
accepted as a “principle.” Mr. Bond quotes 17 of
his. The first is as follows:—”1. Patriotism. If
electors expeot members to be patriotic, they
must show an example by eleoting represen-
tatives without putting them to expense.”
What a glorious jumble I Patriotism, principle,
and payment of election grog-scores. And the
seventh is like unto it. ”7. Trades unions and
eight-hours day work. Even members of Parlia-
ment should not be worked longer; but they
ought to commence public business at 10 o'olock
in the morning, when their heads are clear, minds
fresh, and bodies not requiring stimulants.”
Eight hours work not only for navvies, but even
for members of Parliament I This is a huge compli-
ment to the latter. But what does he mean about
their bodies not requiring stimulants, and by the
allegation that their heads are not clear, ner their
minds frrsh? The seventeenth principle -states
that Mr. Bond is in favour of social purity. This,
alone, should be sufficient to prevent him
from ever standing among the ranks of the elect.
We commend Mr. Bond to Dr. Barry—the Bishop
of that ilk, not the zealous Zachary.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and best
stimulant, tonic, diuretic, at present before toe
world.
Balmy zephyrs ligtly flitting,
Shade me with your azure win?,
On Parnassus’ summit sitting
Aid me, Clio, while I sin?.
Aid me, so that I may tell in
Flowing stanzas shod with rhyme
That at Summerfleld’s they’re selling
Suits that fit you every time.*
The oalm, soothing, but still invigorating
effect is peculiar only to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for Wolfe’s.
Higher teachin? of our daughters has become the
common cry;
And it is right that each colonial girl should
know
That the cheapest and the choicest of the pabts
which boys require
Are supplied by Messrs. Sumraerfleld and Co.*
GQMPA6NONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' *
r iIHE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worshfn
JL Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City dub. &c' worship the Mayor,
The Dining Saloons for LadieelandGentlemen i arethe Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the oolony.
___ _ t ,^ i « st - class MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List. 7
»* GRILLROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, &0., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
91 &&&% £ Bd R want. Inspection iHvited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Quo
and City Club, upstairs. K. D. TOLLEMACHE, deneral Hsnager
KORD3ES3E&N*S
OK THE
BricMieldL HllL
1 STAY
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Pree of Charge.
/ 0
■■ r
C-Y
*3
C#
•'C>
w
)
Nursing and Riding
Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2a. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4a. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. od., Bs. 6d., 9a. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
Order, from th. Country wUI rocelro Immediate and earrlul attention.


A CHAT WITH JAMES BOH WICK,
F.B.G.S.
[BY A.B. ORIGINAL
OtJri appointment 'Bias at the Royal Colonial Insti-
tute—time, 2.30 p.m. It was Mr. Bonwlck who
suggested that dreary establishment as a meeting
place. He oourtec Uily offered to wait upon me in
my attic in—but,noi on second thoughts, it would
not, I judge, be prudent to name the locality. Not
wishing to put him to so great aa inconvenience,
I proposed running down to his place in Upper
Norwood, which would have meant for me a jour-
ney of two or three hours, a fate that I was spared
by the very brilliant idea occurring to Mr. Bon-
wiok of naming the R.C.I. as a half-way house.
The Institute has recently moved round the
Corner into handsome premises in Northumber-
land Avenue, but the handsomest building in the
World could not Save the ooncern, as it is now
conducted, from being the slowest, moat unat-
tractive, and yawn-inspiring rendezvous conceiv-
able. It is not, however, the Institute that lam
mteryiewing; but Mr. James Bonwick, the Austra-
lian historian; whose opinion of it I will tell you
Punctually at 3 3d I walked tip the ff ont sterS of
the R C l. and asked the boy in the hall for Mr.
Bonwlck. He did not know the gentleman, he
Adid, and then* noticing my very natural surprise,
ne explained that there were over 2000 members of
the Institute; most of whom he had never seen.
The last statement occasioned me no Surprise at
all. After pottering about for a little I came
across a good-looking man with a shaven upper
lip, whe seemed to know all about it. Mr. Bon-
wiok was up-stairs, whither the good-looking
man kindly went to fetch him. Meanwhile I
stood in the hall reading a notice to the
©fleet that tea or coffee, with a plate of
bread and butter, might be had between the
hours ef * and 5, upon payment of the moderate
sum ef M. Presently I heard a small voice ask-
iog if I was Mr. Original. I was half inclined to
think that it was my conscience, hut when I turned
rmi to make sure 1 nearly tumbled over
sush a alee little man, whose head was ou a level
with my elbow. I enclose his photo. I had never
seen Mr. Benwiek in my life, but I’m certain I
Should hare known him anywhere. I read Bon-
wlek in his mild, studious eye, and in his manner
ef brushing his hair. The gtlide of shooting in-
fantine ideas; the pedagogue, and the school in-
spector stood Confessed la every gesture and in
f very expression of his really kind and benevo-
eht-ldoklng fafie^
“Are you Mr. Original this, with a smile at
onoe gentle, insinuating, and deprecating, as the
great little historian softly rubbed his hands to-
gether.
“ Yob,” I stammered— I'm a nervous man you
know, and apt to be a little put off in the presence
of the great. “I have the pleasure of speaking
With Mr. Bonwlck, I presume. Thanks. Id's very
ffluflh coldef to*day than te-mor—l mean yester-
&§r. Bonwlck cheerfully endorsed the State mbnt,
adding in strict confidence t-hat he wouldn’t he at
all surprised if we had a fall of snow presently.
Encouraged by his condescension and affability, I
drew a comparison between the Australian and
English climates very much in disfavour of the
latter, and was delighted to find that Mr. Bon-
wiek entirely agreed with me.
My companion then led me to a large gloomy
room underground, where he said we could con-
verse without interruption. The dark, sombre ap-
pearance of the place suggested mystery and con-
spiracy to my heated imagination,and, but for the
guileless appearance of my conductor, I might
almost have anticipated a whispered suggestion
to attract all the resident Australians in London to
the Institute some night, and blow them up with
rua-oetton. At the time, however, I had other
things to think of. I was wondering whether
ft would be proper to take out my note-book
and dot down all that the Australian historian
fdd. Bearful of either scaring or offending him,
eventually decided to trust to my memory, not-
withstanding its many shortcomings. Having
gives mo the easiest chair in the room, and taken
the most uneomfortable for himself, Mr. Bonwick
rubbed his hands again and waited to be inter-
viewed. I found him a striking and agreeable
Contrast to tbeatorage victim of the interviewer,
me betrayed no irritstiilg reticence, no guarded
suspicion. He talked simply ana Intelligently, and,
when he warmed with bis theme,with naive enthu-
am. What did he think ot the Royal Colonial
stttute? “ Nothing, sir; absolutely nothing I It
had no vitality, no vigour. Tnere was nothing
attractive about it. It did no good for the colonies,
for its fellows, for itself, or anybody or thiDg else.
What was wanted was a place where the colonist
upon landing in London could mako straight for;
where he would be made at home, find himself
among his countrymen, get a bite of something to
eat, bo recommended to a good hotel, and be
generally put ou the right track. The Institute,
loo,” says Mr. Bonwick, “should endeavour to
advertise the colonies, and educate English people
in a subject of which they are profoundly
ignorant. Who cares to listen to an occasional
dreary paper written by some poor scribe for
a eonplo of guineas, and read by some uneducated
colonial prig, at a meeting called for the purpose?”
Mr. Bonwick here got so warm that I thought it
advisable to change the subject.
•• Whieh of the colonies do you prefer? ” I asked,
but Mr. Bonwick was not to be trapped into any
invidious admissions.
“ I love them all,” he declared, “ I should live
and die in Australia but for two things—my chil-
dren are married and settled here, and since the
sunstroke I had when I was a school inspector in
Victoria, I have not been able to endure heat. I
hope, however, to visit Australia again next
year. I will be attracted to Adelaide because
I remember the hospitality and kindness of
its peeple. I will go to Melbourne to be again lost
in admiration of its wondrous progressireaess;
and the glorious and lawful beauty of its bay will
draw me to Sydney. Which do I think the most
solidly prosperous of the colonies? That is a diffi-
cult question. I think the number of the private
equip *ges to be seen in the streets a very good
index to the prosperity of a place, and I remember
mere handsome carriages in Sydney than auy other
colonial city.” “And the climate?” I enquired.
“Every elimat# in the world is to be found in Aus-
tralia. I have just completed a book which will
be published at the beginning of the year, called
qjimate and Health in Australasia.’ In that work
I have dealt the truth out plainly to each oolony,
*■4 I expect to be found fault with by all.”
•Why so?” I asked. ~ , _ ,
•Because the eolonies can’t bear anything but
asrreable truth. Their one great imperfection is
•©■eeit—a very natural one, considering the
flattery they have been accustomed to receive.
Bat, Mr. Original, and here Mr. Bonwlck became
very impressive and moist-eyed, “I love the
eelemisstoo well to deceive th m.” “But which
■articular place do you think possesses the finest
Wmate?” I persisted. “In the work I have men-
Momedlhave shown that there are parts of New
■■■Bi Wales which have the least mortality in the
werld. I’m getting an old man r ow-sixty-nine
last birthday-but if my only object in life were to
life, I should live either in the Twofeld
mj district or at Picton.”
I suppose this will occasion a rush of land-
jehhers to those two places, In view of their
heMsaing fashionable health resorts.
I» the eourse cf the conversation I gathered
ghat Mr. Bonwick’s efforts as a colonial historian
have *et been productive of much pecuniary
beueflt to himself, nor have they, altogether, met
with the appreciation they deserve. Two years
age he published a work, entitled. “Port Phillip
Settlement.” of which he cxneoted a number of
copies would be taken by the Victorian and N.S.W.
Governments, for us* in the different public
institutions. So far, however, these pleasant a .ii-
eipations have not been realised. Mr. Bonwick
has published in all about a dozen books on Aus-
tralia matters, but in connection with none of
them has he received auy assistance lrom any of
fhe Colonial Governments. His last book coßt him
£5OO to publish, so that it altogether rooms to me
that his profession of his affection for the colonies
must be perfectly genuine. He told me that ho
bad often been oalled a fool for devoting: himself
to Australian Interests ; “ but,” he added, “ I con-
fess that my love for Australia keeps alive my en-
thusiasm in the winter of old age.”
But it was on the subject of the early records of
the colony of New South Wales that Mr. Bonwick’s
enthusiasm became most intense. “ Tour Govern-
ments,” ha said, “are displaying, with regard to
the history of the country, a neglect, wanton,
eruel, and criminal, for which an indignant pos-
terity will one day exeorata them. At the State
Record Office here, in London, there are docu-
ments, old, priceless documents, concerning the
early days of Australian colonisation, moulding
and rotting away. What do they here? They
belong to Sydney, They should be in Sydney—in
the Library or Museum. The officials at the
Record Office are not too careful of them, and
before the ink has faded, and they are lost to all
intelligibility they should either be removed or
fac similes should be taken for use in the
oolonies.”
“But I should think that a good many colonial
families would object to the production of the
documents,” I ventured to remark. “ Plenty of
Australians are not at all anxious to discover, or for
other people to discover, how they came to be
Australians.”
“ Your objection has some reason in it,” replied
the historian, with much condescension, “ but,”
he added, with a severity of demeanour I had
not given him credit for, “are the private feelings
of a few insignificant persons to be permitted to
destroy history? Your objection, however, oan be
met With a compromise. Let the Government ap-
point an experienced and judicious person to
make /a e similes of the documents, carefully sup-
pressing anything whioh oouid give individual
offence. Let the authorities neglect the early his-
tory of the country no longer. There are many
ciiridus old maps, globes, and books of which
copies should ba obtainable in the public institu-
tions of the eolonies. Canada employs an archi-
vist in London. There is abundant scope for an
archivist for New South Wales, as the oldest Aus-
tralian colony.”
"I firmly believe there is,” I said. “He should
be a man who has lived much in the oolonies.”
“He should,” assented Mr. Bonwick.
“He should be thoroughly up in everything
colonial.”
“True.”
“He should he an enthusiast.”
“Most certainly.”
“And having written much on Australia would
perhaps be a reoommendation.”
“Good.”
I’m certain Mr. Bonwick had the same man in
his mind’s eye at that moment as I had.
As the Institute,for some unknown reason,closes
at 5 o’clock, I was obliged to bring my agreeable
visit to Mr. Bonwick to a close. As we ascended
the stairs, my new friend asked in an off-hand,
Casilal sort of way, if I knew any of the “Austra-
lian big-wigs Who are over here? I acknowledged
that I did know a few of them, and asked what he
thought of them. He made such a grimace.
We parted at the door with many expressions of
mutual respect and esteem. But as I went down
the steps, a thought suddenly struck me and I ran
“ Hi I Mr. Bonwick 1”
He was half way up the stairs, but he graoiousiy
descended asain.
“ What is it, my son ?”
“I forgot to aSb you,” I panted, “what you
think of the New South Wales Soudan Contingent
business ?”
Mr. Bonwick’s sole answer was a grimace seven
times worse than the first. Then he turned and
left me, and, hat respectfully in hand, I stood and
watched the little figure wending its way slowly
and sadly upwards, until it was lost to view.
As I walked meditatively up Northumberland
Avenue, I determined that not the least interest-
ing man I had met in my eventful career was the
earnest, simple, and indefatigable little school-
master, geographer,and historian, James Bonwick.
London, ,90 th November, 1885.
A Skeleton KOD
An exchange says: “a compliment is
something like a kiss through a vial.” The greatest
compliment lyou could pay the author of this
apothegm would be to offer him a drink out of a
rum bottle.
The Reverend Walters, of Melbourne, has
been publishing for some time past a periodical
about the size of a cigarette paper which he
called —in defiance of sarcasm “Modern
Thought.” Now, he says, it will be discontinued
during she summer months. Naturally. Only
the most reckless of men attempt to think in warm
weather. This will be a comfort to a lot of people
hereafter. Hell would be more than hell if they
had to think there.
Here’s a dear old man to have for a father-
in-law. “An old Puritan,” writing to a London
paper says: “I would see daughter or sister of mine
dead and buried ten times over rather than see
any woman of my kith and kin reduced to the in-
famy of buying her bread by displaying her thighs,
brandishing her legs, and twisting her gauzy
apology for a petticoat before the obscene erew of
mashers and rakes who form an appreciablejsection
of every audience were a ballet is performed.”
Wond?r what the trapaze-loving Kyardinal
Moran thinks of that lot.
The Brisbane undertakers are bitterly
incensed against Mr. Griffith, the Queensland
Premier, for quarantining the Dorunda. It is
probable that when he dies he will have to emi-
grate if he wants to get buried. Either this, or he
will have to submit to be cremated. They call his
action with regard to the Dorunda “ a tyrannical
abuse of power to take the bread out of the
mouths of honest men.” We quote the impressive
words of a speaker at a late indignation meeting
ef the local Coffin Club on the subject:—"Here,”
said he, " is a ship coming to our shores chock-full
of cholera. Who sent that cholera ? Providence.
It was a godsend to us if it had been allowed to
take its natural and orthodox course. But Mr.
Griffith—may dingoes howl over his uncofflned
bones!—must set himself against Providence and
thwart its designs. And for what? Simply to
strike a death-blow at our trade, gentlemen. This
wanton tyranny, if allowed to run rampant, will
ruin us and undermine the Constitution. What,
then, must we do to check it ? I will tell you. We
must unite in a firm phalanx with the watchword
‘ No more quarantining P and strike until our end
is gained. When nobody can be found to bury
the dead decently, and every man has to be his
own undertaker, public opinion will soon be on
our side. To this end, it would be well if.we were
to communicate with the Coffin Clubs in other
colonies, and ask them to join us in enforcing the
repeal of this odious law on its own Governments.
Then will prosperity reign amongst us once more,
and every man of us will merrily plant his aver-
age of six customers a day.” (Prolonged applause.)
The meeting subsequently decided to withdraw
the testimonial and complimentary rose-wooders
which they had intended to present to the passen-
gers by the Dorunda.
A station-manager up North, during an
after-dinner speech congratulated his hearers
upon the gradual disappearance of the old type of
overseers, of whom he remarksi “They have had
to make room for the new generation, young men
of education and culchaw! who bring their intel-
lect to bear upon the great question of irrigation,
and who, by the introduction of modern ma-
chinery, have reduced the working expenses of a
station to the minimum, so placing wool-growing
upon a firmer commercial basis.” Ahem! Jus®
here we recall a little story of a young man of in-
tellect, &c„ &e., whom we engaged to place our
station upon a firm commercial basis. After three
months’ steady work upon the billiard-table in the
adjacent township, our modern overseer applied
for a month’s leave. We pointed out to him that,
as it was near lambing-time, his presence was
needed; whereupon he gravely suggested that i®
would be as well to postpone the lambing for a
month. No further objections were made; we
merely murmured that suoh an easy way out of
the difficulty had not ooourred to tis, and he might
have his holiday. He is having it still, and we
have to content ourselves with a man whom
science has not placed so far ahead of
one of "the old type,” in fact, who can tell how
many teeth there are in the upper jaw of a sheep
without looking. But, just to show we bear no
malice, wo place a new sheet in the autophone and
warble:—
It Is seldom that the composing-room of a
Minting office devolopes the cricketers’ art. Yet we
see that yoiang Barland, lately a comp, in the Spec.
t'ihce, Hamilton (Vio.), has abandoned the rule
and stick, and taken to the willow and wicketa,
fi® engaged as a professional howler by
the E.M.C. George Rippon, proprietor of the
Spectator, may be credited with this develop-
ment of a type-snatcher into a leather-trund'er-
George, himself, though fat, fair, and fifty, is still
occasionally “ dead on.”
Poor Ogilvy developed a fearful faculty
for Putlog himself in the way of the ball during
N.8.W. s second innings in the Intercolonial. A
ball thrown up by Palmer broke one of his teeth,
and a nasty one from Spofforth landed him on the
anee. Bruce, too, hit the unfortunate man once,
and the “demon” brought off another minor
bruise before a catch by Scott sent him safe back
to the pavilion. A man doesn’t get much sym-
pathy from the crowd in the time of such tribula-
tion, however. As Ogilvy writhed around the
wicket, somebody suggested that he was “ putting
on jam.” “Why don’t he put on vinegar and
brown paper ?” murmured an unfeeling ruffian.
“Teemer,” remarks “Pendragon” in the
Referee, “ makes no secret of Hanlan’s abject
position. The champion distinctly charges that
Hanlan personally asked and coaxed and entreated
him to throw this race, and offered in return to
make a match next spring, and allow Teemer to
win. Can this be the Hanlan who introduced
here an entirely new style of rowing, and showed
us a pace which was as far in front of previous
English champions as previous English champions
used to be in front of previous English outsiders;
or is it a poor debilitated, worn-out, and prema-
turely aged man, who, no longer able to show the
form of old, is now made the sport of comparative
commoners ? Speaking for myself, I fancy Han-
lan is a complete wreck—that he lost his best form
before rowing Beach in Australia. It would be
too much to suppose that the Hanlan we knew
could be beaten like a baby, and made to fall out
of his boat in very shame, by new American de-
velopments, while we in England, so far from
developing anybody half as good as Hanlan, have
not anybody half as good as the scullers were who
held front rank before the coming of Hanlan to
this effete and demoralised old country.”
A recent billiard match between Peall
and Mitchell—15,000 “all in”—brought out some of
the tallest scoring on record. Peall, who ultimately
won by more than 5000 points, made breaks of 138Q,
1709, and 1139, and ran out with a break
of 1150 which was continued until he finally
broke down at 1923, all hut 10 points being
scored off the spot. Mitchell, too, made
one great run of 1620. A London paper
comments on the wearisome monotony of such
spot stroking, but it never seems to have occurred
to the writer that the table may have been specially
favourable to big scoring. The match was only
an exhibition for a prize given by the proprietor
of the rooms, and the chances are that six-tenths
of an inch was given at each pocket in order to
ensure some sensational play. The trick has been
successfully tried in former games between the
same two men. But, anyway, whether the pockets
were “kind” or no, such phenomenal records
ought to be a lesson to certain Australian sports-
men who once fondly imagined that Weiss was
within coo-ee of the best home players. Harry
Evans, who heat Weiss by half the game the first
time they met, was never in the hunt with the pro-
fessed spot-stroke players.
Respecting the policy of running thorough-
breds unshod, a Melbourne paper quotes:—“A
gentleman recently arrived from America tells me
that the practice of racing horses without their
shoes is as unknown in the States as it is in Eng-
land. When Mr. W. A. Long was in England a
couple of years back, he hinted at the advisa-
bility of running a horse or two without plates,
and the idea was at once soouted. At the next
meeting that Mr. Long attended one of the raoes
resulted in a dead heat, and Mr. Long, knowing
one of the owners, persuaded him to take off the
horse’s shoes for the run-off. This was done, and
the barefooted nag won easily.” This statement
about the practice being unknown in America can
hardly be quite correct. Without saying that it is
the common rule to knock off the plates before a
race, we know that it is one which must be some-
times adopted, because Walton, the American
Plunger, advocated the system when he was in
England. In fact the story about what Mr. Long
did two years ago was told—and truthfully—about
Walton some four years hack. He persuaded the
owner of a dead-heater to take the shoes off his
nag in the run-off, with an equally satisfactory
result. The horse on which the experiment was
tried was an uncertain eustomer named Mont-
rose, if we remember correctly. It is probably the
Walton yarn that is now fathered on to Mr. W. A.
Long. By the way, before deriding the English
system, it is well to bear in mind that some horses
never run so generously as when they hear their
feet rattle.
“THE MODERN MANAGER"
He’s—aw!—managing a station,
And he’s great on irrigation,
He discourses very learnedly on patent ploughs
and sooops;
At statistics he’s a terror,
And he never makes an error
When he sends his requisition in, exoept just when
it suits.
And his style is truly grand,
For he tools a four-in-hand,
And he raises quite a dust whene’er he drives
along the street;
And he doffs his shiny “ eady,”
To a doctor, priest, or lady,
Though he ganes straight before him if his shep-
herd he should meet.
But he’s not in such a hurry
If a shepherd from “ the Murray ”
Will block his rams and listen whilst he talks about
the shows;
If the rams have gained a prize
He’ll exolalm with startled eyes,
" They’re only ‘ culls,’ my Mudgee pets have woo
down to their toes.”
He fills columns in the papers
With his agricultural oapers,
And t© read his “ stook report ” is quite a literary
treat;
If the Inmates of “ The Ark ”
Had been drafted in the dark.
He’d have classed them as they passed him by
feeling with his feet.
He’s a terror to all drovers—
Woe I betide the luckless rovers
Whom he finds have pltohed their camp within tin
bounds of his domain.
For he’ll strip them with hilarity,
Send a fiver to a charity,
And thus our Modern Manager adds lustra to hie
name.
A BABY SWALLOWED HALF-A-
BOVE REIGN.
Fun for the doctor, quick. “ Help I help I dot
baby has swallowed halr-a-sovereign,” exclaimed
Mrs. 8otaaumburg. "Mein Gott, you so much
fusi as if it was a sovereign. Be calm, Repecca, I
thought it was de last bottle of the St. Louis Lager
Betr,” replied Moses.*
Every home has its requirements in
croohery and glass, and every want in this line is
obtainable in an unequalled variety, at, the wide-
famed houses of Bray Bros., 402 and 404 Georgo-
street, opposite the Joint Stook Bank.*
BEALE &£OMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry-
-371 a S|iney.
THE LATE3T TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ” ,
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing machine,
The u SiapsiHirg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE "HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE ANDJBOBfIPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,]
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney^


Q
.Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Scrofula on Neck*,
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skm Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Turl-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
; Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
' Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
1 heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
’ stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
XTever Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
m
EFFECTUALLY DESTROY
allnoxiou~ irrrrn^
\\
FLEAS. FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAM E TIMEQUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS
FOWLS OR GTH ER
ANIMALS -$•&
FELTON-CRIMWADE.V.C 0
MELBOURNE I
Wanted in Every Elonse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
ggf 3 Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
w. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PUBS.
W. WALKER
and SOUS
are one of the
Larg-eit
Stockholder*
ani
Manufaeiurtn
of
Hfv)i-eI«M
FURNITURE
in
BN GLAND.
IS
Catalogues
POST FREE,
ALL STOCK
in fcheir
SYDNEY
lemi
la
Bns&U«d
OISBCT
t?em ti si;
Xsondoa
Manolaotoi y
and Latcat
London styles
Guaranibid,
SYDNEY BRANCH':
81 CUMIEMPE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
YANKEE DOODLE
X{oX£ uOODi
£ so»* s
*!§V DUE
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
X
UE
TOBAC C O
DIMSORS & wwrawp Tobacco, and consume more AmericanLeaf'
tban any factory in tbe southern hemisphere.
P?" YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
SOIS, Sidney, Kcco, he]ajr * QBt Factory * MaDUfacture pore
Choice Presents
For Children!
For Adults!!
SUITABLE FOR EVENING PARTIES, OR FOR
INVALIDS.
Choice Perfumery, Is., Is. 6d., 25., 2s. 6d., and 3s. 6d.
~ American (boxes) Confeotionery, lOd.
„ French Oystalized Fruits, Is. 6d. and up-
wards.
„ English Confectionery, Is. 6d. ar.d 2s. 6d.
„ „ Calfs-foot Jellies, variouslv flav-
oured, and plain, Is. 6d„ 2s.and 3s. each.
„ Toilet articles for Ladles and Infants.
„ American Cashmere Soap, Is., and others,
6d„ 9d„ and Is. each.
„ French Soaps, 6d. and Is.
„ English Soaps, 2d., 3d., 4d., and 6d.
„ Pear’s Soaps, Gd., 3 for Is. 4d.
And a thousand other articles of every-day con-
sumption, including the inimitable
AUSTRALIAN RELISH,
that modern appetiser, at Is.
Send for price-list (post free), and save mosey.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STRIE T.
C R « i» OlV£*
K
O
M ARSHALL BRC?
DENTISTS
133EL1Z AB ETH S o T
;y*
MDE. DE NGUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting: a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co , Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTEHFIELIS, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Red fern.
Linen G-loss
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YmK STREET,
SYDNEY.
IU
m
iirnwimiiiOTiii
>
ertCIALLT IMPORTED TOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
BUmKOZUKfIGOL
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY vehicle guaranteed


An Idyl of George-streot.
(By ALFRED TEN NYSON Junlor)
In her ear he whispers gaily,
“ If my heart by signs can tell.
Maiden, I have watched thee daily,
And I think thou lov’st me well.”
She replies, in accents fainter—
“ I have loved thee from afar; ”
He was but a sign-board painter,
Whilst she served behind the bar.
He to lips that fondly falter,
Presses her without reproof,
Soon a parson ties the halter,
And they leave to seek a roof.
“ I can make no marriage present,
Little can I give my wife:
Love shall make our cottage pleasant,
And I love thee more than lifel”
And she answered, gently, “ Neddy,
Be not grieved uuto the quick,
If thou dost not clutch the ‘ ready,’
Let us, sweetest, go on ‘ tick.’ ”
Then along the street they wandered,
Wandered on for many a mile,
While within their breasts they pondered
How the shopmen they’d beguile.
“ Love has many means,” she faltered,
“ Many means we’ll not forget.”
And he pressed the maid he'd haltered,
And in muimurings said, “You betl ”
They, by many a window going,
bee the lovely maidens stand,
Sydney dust about them blowing,
Made of much that is not sand I
From deep thou* ht himself he rouses,
Says to her that loves him well—
“ Let us see these handsome houses
Where the wealthy shopmen dwell.”
So she goes by him attended,
Hears him lovingly converse,
Sees whatever’s fair and splendid,
Marks the goods as his and hers,
And while now she wanders b indly
’Mong the things she thinks divine,
Proudly turns he round and kindly—
“ All of this is mine and thine.”
Then she filled her handbag, slowly
Swept the oounters of their toys;
Oh, but love makes all hearts lowly,
Lowly love is chief of joysl
All at once the oolour flushes
Her sweet faoe from brow to chin,
As it were, with shame, she blushes,
And her spirit’s changed within;
Then her countenance all over
Pale again as death did prove,
But he clasp d her like a lover,
And he cheered her soul with love.
But the eye of “ law ” was on her,
And she felt her frame grow weak;
At the door stood Sergeant Bonner-
Well she knew that awful beak!
Then her husband turned and saw him,
Turned and saw that it was he,
But in vain he tried to “ draw ” him
So that from him he could flee.
Through the streets he led them, fainter
Now she murmured, “ Oh tnat he
Were once more a sign-board painter,
And a happy barmaid—me I ”
Soon the Judge in all his glory,
Three years each then gave them—swifter
Than I write this dismal story
Of a well-known counter lifter I
C.E.H.
The London Times one day last month
gave up a column of its space to a country parson
to tell of an anecdote about a cat that lived In
the house with him nine years ago. This la the
Times that Informed an Agent-General, on an
occasion when the fair fame of his colony wss
aspersed, that it had no room for six inches of ex-
planation from him. The London Times gradation
of topics of public interest is cats, parsons, Aus-
tralian colonies—and, a long way off, Agents-
General.
A lady died lately in SpaiD, leaving her
large property to be expended upon her dogs and
cats, of which she possessed a great number. As
dogs die their share of the money is to be devoted
to furnishing additional luxuries to the surviving
cats. When the existing stock of dogs and cats
have died, the will directs the property to be then
distributed among four convents of nuns in
Madrid. M. Bernier, the Radical journalist of
New Caledonia, grades the descent of the property
under the three heads—dogs, eats, nuns-and then
philosophically remarks:—“ After all, considering
the services rendered to humanity by dogs, cats,
and nuns, this gradation is not wholly devoid of
reason.”
Cuticura Resolvent,
the new blood purifier, cleanses the blood and
perspiration of impurities and poisonous elements,
and thus removes the cause. Cuticura, the great
skin cure, instantly allays itching and inflamma-
tion, clears the skin and scalp, heals ulcers and
sores, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an
exquisite skin beautifter, prepared from Cuticura
is indisoeneable in treating skin diseases, baby
humours, skin blemishes.
Wolfe's Schnapps strengthens and;braces
up the system against disease. Be sure you ob-
tain Wolfe’s.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that but for
its use I should long fince have died from lung
troubles. E« Braudon.—Palestiue, Texas. April
3d, 1882.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a great relief in
Rheumatism, infinitely superior to brandy or
whisky.
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Bnchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
'and Valuable Medicines in the World,
'and in addition contain all the best
* and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
' earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
‘‘To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
' Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments oause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
' Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
' Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘aliment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
' dreds have been saved by so doing, at
' a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
‘ ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
0T See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO/S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-straet,
Established 1861.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
BTOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER I *.
52?“ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
Ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CKEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADI.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeord-st„ London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious. ,
WILLIAM BALL,
THE "PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
i
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“Dear Sir,—l consider your ‘make-up’ perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladles and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
<£cent post free for is. stamps.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
T/uHejUone false. ' Metssiert
"ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stook
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &e.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
Jtl upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
~
342 GEORGE STREET.
MADAME VAILLANT, Parisienne Dress-
maker, has the honor to notify that she
has left Messrs. Buckley and Nunn’s, and started
a first-class Dressmaking, Corset, and Mantle-
making Establishment with Madame Elise, of
128 Colllns-street East, Melbourne.
&
LIMITED,
356 George-sfreef,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEBT MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prioeson Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
31
rxt-'jZi
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling-, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs or Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO7,
Sole Agents.
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.
London, 18R4; Member of the Royal College oi
Surgeons, London, 1859.
rjio Country Journallsts.—Leaders, Telegrams.
JL. and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms, “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS AHD CUES, TREACLE ARE COLBEN STEEP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
It**' FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S. & A. Rave obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881 ; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta 1.1. 1883-4,
•jrtfitay Agents i W, H, ARIELL ft CO., 343 ctue) 343 M-sM.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS I
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
r®»i
s=?
mi
Rwtore* manhood to the moit shattered and debilitated M>
ititntion from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the striated di-
rections, which are very simple, and require ao restraint er
hindrance from business.
title invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
(«• all who suffer wasting and Withering of the nerval and
acmlar tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
iepi Trembling Sensations, Dirtiness, Spermatorrhoea, a!)
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive dt
mngement of the system ; regenerating all the important
fitments of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
meet sacred obligation*.
In onset at tss., nr four quantities in nne for gts. | If he
iwm, tt. fid. eatrn.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
R. R
Far strengthening the system, purifying the Mood, regulating
§fc» bowel*, and removing all vitiated humour*, biliou* an?
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
CoativenesE. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nerveui
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a mu
tease of life to the sickly and aged of both sens#, impai
• beautiful and clear complexion, a
strength, and vigour.
complexion, a sure sign of ksk
Fries, ss. | by poet, it. entrn.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 GOVLBURJf STREET,
Qua Doom most Gioxon Inin loutm.
And may bs had of most Chemists. 5
Ptreols pnehej ttourely and frt* from tbttrvaiitn, mt t«
Queensland, Now Zealand, or any part tf Mt Aaitrntfm
Qolonlot, on reeolpt of Feat Offiot Orstr tf itnmpo,
MOULTON’S PAIN PAIN r J
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM;
JMTHALOIA, headache, TOOTHAC J TL
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS, SCALD 3, &c an
SAken internally cures DIARRHCEA, V
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iiitfarns ache
Mid pains, .
Price, 2/- Hold Everj wlaercv
S. E. MOULTON, sole profit :or„
MELBOUENL .A. NT ID o'IDNEY
PAINT
HI
A TRA.DE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
HAFJS, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY UURKror Noi
voua and General Debility, and all complaint
tnat spring l from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgit
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss o
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidnej
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power
&c. By its tonic and soothing effects it at one*
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richnea
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ish® 3 and gives vigour to the whole system
Price, 4s, fid., or Ssss. a case Sold everywhere
Proprietors, M ARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists, ll>4 and 106 Market-street, nes? a ye.
Pas-k, Sydney, sad 5 Pitt-street. ;oirfluji«.»-ou*T
NJB.-All imitations illegal. firs MO iirsi-r-
-vippm
tsr THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
m B PITT
IP S
uflt-
ll*
Op
I)
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
iiditt, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
dhd a host of otlitff ailments, far all ef
which they are a safe, sure, pifflriipt; it lit!
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
Slibstances only, and are absolutely free from
Calomel or any otliei injurious iiigf'edient,
A Sufferer from Headache write®:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable torhe, and
are my constant companion. I have bfe'efl
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. 'They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Ya., June 3, 1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
liftve never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as d
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicines.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, Juno 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
bast I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines Of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
Ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for $5.
ULLIOTT BKOB. and P. HOFFNUNG & CO,
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
is murm bales !
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
0F“ Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for IS
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£S LADY’S BALE.
0 Ladies’ Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aocouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
IBs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
and full instruction for self -measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
ROWLAND*’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the leetb.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentis's allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non gritty tooth powder; such
Howlands' Odonto has always proved itself to be !
ROWLANDS LUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
tied wood Ph D , F.O.S , &c. Sold In three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLAND**’ .MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for f»ir or goJden-haired children and per-
sons Four sizes.
Ask ary dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
article*, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthlers imitations.
Wholesale and Retail A gents - Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
E
YBBYBODY I
SHOULD USB f
FEM ELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FIiOUR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
tn a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Georjre-street, Sydney.
STUDY ECONOMY
9 aad
B a y e your Umbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
£4l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst St*.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume?. Banalrx naatly axs-
***•' I
NNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PE APES and SHAW
invite special attention to their Jar ire assortment of
FANCY ARTICLES, SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTATION.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OFLUXURY
PBAPEB & SHAW'S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
' Ladies’ Hand Hags, with
and without fittings
The largest stock of beau-
tiful Fsdb in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
' Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and Rus-
| sian leather
, Purses, Memo. Tablets,
j Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte-de-
Yislte Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
i Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
I Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases,
l and Bags, &a.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
all sjzes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, ToyB for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
-{ Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &c., &o.
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
(. bination Boxes of Toys,
DOLLB, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLB, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLS,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM,
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day!
324, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, <fcc.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
SOMETHING!- NEW!
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
AND
TOOTH BRUSH'.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip-
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
toy the Pall Ms
Electric
Association.
e*9
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. Tile Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles arc inserted in the handle by i
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetic
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissue
of the teeth and gums. Tiie act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums*
The handle is strong
beautifully polished,
not afFi cted by acids,
impervious to
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bone
handle
THE
PALL MALL
Electric
ASSOCI A TIOX
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler. It
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, heard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other stylos
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electrio
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex can use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
London, England.
Pr. Scott, New York.
Your ■■ Crimper and Curler'
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most simple to use. r
consider them worth a guinea apiece '
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
llair - L. LANGTItY.
_ „ , , Carlton Cr.cn, London, W.
Dr. Scott 8 Electric Curler " curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
cri inping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. 1). W. G.
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the use of Dr Scott's
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
he the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
Health ensured by using
Dr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes,
or Insoles,
I
£*EET
All Goods manufactured
toy Dr. Scott toear this label.
BEWARE OF
WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s, 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances can b 8 made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
M Siarga rsf-sf raaf. Svtfaey.
r.O, BOX, 321.


DEMOCRACY AHD TITLES.
(By MAR[?]CALLNE)
[FOR THE BULLETIBN.]
“ For a man to spend his life ia pursuit oi a title
that serves only when he dies to furnish an
qpitaph, is only evidenca of a tool ox a partibillar
kind.”—Seneca.
As the youDg plant is trained; so will the tree
grow. That is a truism as old as humanity. .As
the most torious responsibility of parents is the
moulding of the characters of their chlldern, so is
thb grayest responsibility of all inhabitants of a
young country the establishment of principles
that will ensure a glorious future for that country.
The pioneers of a now nation have many advan-
tages, chief of which is the privilege of gazing at
the old nations from that distauco which lends a
certain amount of enchantment to the view—the
distance which annihilates many prejudices, which
snables a comparatively correct judgment to be
formed, and allows the observer to profit fully by
the experiences of the past, and base on a sound
foundation his plans and programmes for the
future. It can only bo a simple truism, apparent
surely to the poorest intellect, that our duty to
Australia Is to Import from the old countries all
that we recognise as good in them, and
to reject with Indomitable resolution all
that we regard as pernicious I The tendenoy of
all civilised nations in the present day is
unmistakably towards Democracy and Republi-
canism in politics, just as Burelv as towards
universal scepticism ia religion. To meet either
of them with sneers or persecution displays the
wisdom of Louis XVf. when he received the depu-
tation of starving workmen with a “ new gallows
forty feet high ” An evil day is coming for kings
and hereditary toadstool aristocracy. To the clear
eye of thinking men the evidences are as clear as
the premonitory symptoms of the French revolu-
tion to Chesterfield.
In all nations, long trampled beneath the feet of
tyrants, the electric current of Democracy, of a
higher Clod-sent national freedom and individual
prosperity is courdog slowly through the veins of
tbe people. As usual, all manner of fools, from
Royal to plebeian, will stick, ostrich-wise, their
foolish heads into fallacies and the fool’s paradise,
and be satisfied that their c stle is resting on the
primeval rock, instead of BiowJy settling into the
bottomless morass. To fools of all degrees the ex-
perience of the past is meaningless. The voioes that
speak In thunder tones lrom out the years that
have gone before us, that write their warnings in
letters of fire on the black midnight sky for all
Wise men to read and profit by, are to them only
as the “ chatter of sunward-sailing cranes,” as the
fantastic scroll of some celestial mirage, transient
as the Northern Lights. Truly the fool is more to
be dreaded in this world than the sooundrell His
liability to mischief is infinitely greater. “It Is the
duty,” said Cicero, “ of all wise men to oppose the
fickle disposition of the multitude.” To-day he
might have seen that it is necessary for the multi-
tude to oppose the fickle and pernicious disposi-
tion of some of the “wise men,” or of those who
profess to be wise—a somewhat different position 1
To the Sydney Bulletin is due the gratitude
of all true Australians for Its unsparing denuncia-
tion of shams— Its withering oontempt for here-
ditary titles, or still more contempiible specialiy-
created decorations that are tbe outcome
of political expediency. To me the most humili-
ating spectacle of modern Australian history
is the indecent and depraved anxiety of some
of our public men for conferred titles. It is
one of the worst symptoms of an intermittent
disease, likely to become chronic if not speedily
eradicated. Is it not seen already that hereditary
titles, or titles of any kind, wtre the old com-
panions of feudalism ?—that they should have died
and become extinct with feudalism ?—that they
are now, only “galvanised into the detestablest
death life,” the ridicule or the horror of the com-
ing Democracy f And yet some poor, pitiful,
abject crawlers after conspicuous distinction are
satisfied if they can secure a little of tbe “ malo-
dorous phosphorescence” art iug from the decay-
ing eorpse of that past abomination, and wear it
en themselves with as much satisfaction and
supreme vanity as if itw .re a heaven-sent bril-
liant from one of the eteri al starsl If the Parlia-
ment of a free nation created a title to be be-
stowed on all who had distinguished themselves
in art, science, or politics, in services to the
state or their fellow men, we could under-
stand an eager desire to obtain that title I
But what are we to say of these knighthoods,
these C.M.G.s, and other mean frippery and de-
spicable gewgaws—the very offer of whioh Bhould
be regarded by every Belf-respecting man as an
unpardonable Insult to himself and his country ?
1 am not assuming that the desire for these things
is in accordance with the spirit of the Australian
people. I can no more believe this than think
that the soaring eagle is desirous to have a par-
rot’s feather stuck in his tall, or the kingly lion
Sighs for a brass collar! But how long before an
Australian, to whom one of these contemptible
titles is offered, will have the nobility of soul, the
manly patriotism, tbe glorious self-respeot to kick
k from him with unspeakable oontempt ?
Do but look at this splendid youn t Empire of
the Pacific, rifling )i <e another " Sea Cybele fresh
lrom Ooean,” and pioture, if you can, the stately
young Australian giant, filled with the “ fire lava
©f Democracy,” kneeling in the dust, abjectly
grateful to reoeive a contemptible title contemp-
tuously bestowed by unscrupulous diplomatists;
not as a reward for national aervioes, or recog-
nition of intellectual supremacy, but to gratify
flobeming pol ticia s dis' tnguished by the serpen-
tine sinuosities <>i i heir p ithway to office, or tueir
sycophantic abasement before the shrines wor-
shipped by old-world Royalists and shoddy arieto-
crats.
Curran’&“GreenTBle of the West,” kneeling like
a bastinadoed elephant to receive her paltry rider,
would be nothing to this. But we will banish at
once the remot< at prospect of such a possibility.
Jt seems like imagining- the spfetacle of Hector
and Achilles fighting for a child's rattle. B.ut the
Australian people nave t ) perform a duty to
themselvps and their country. A passive Demo
cracy that quietly acq.uieses with scorn, instead of
rising and sweeping snams into merited annihila-
tion, is a fraudulent Democracy.
Ijntherichtet soils the rankest weeds have the
most vigorous growth. If these noxious plar.ts of
the old nations find a secure hold in the Australian
soil their eradication will be ultimately a serious
undertaking. Let us at once classify these ribbon
decorations and feudal parchment titles with the
sparrows, the thistles,the rabbits, and other detest-
able importations that are already afflicting this too
confiding country. Let the people elect Demo-
cratie Parliaments, prepared to pass a law that no
receiver of titles of any kind shall occupy a seat in
either branch of the Legislature, or be eligible for
any,post of honour in the gift of his oountry. The
sooner this evil is met in battle array the sooner
it will be doomed to extinction. Let the only
aristoeraoies be those of manhood, of intellect, of
State services, of art, scienoe, and benevolence.
Let us then, in God’s name, on the pathway of ou r
progress to the future, shun the pestilential,
miasma-breeding morasses and Stygian pools of
fel&ek putridity, whose poisonous exhalations
have been the source of untold misery and death
for nameless oenturiet in tho unhappy countries
tyrannised over by kings and hereditary nobility.
Let this grand young Australian Democracy
“ Rise like lions after slumber,
In unvanquishable number,’’
Sweeping away all agencies likely to make ua con-
temptible in the eyes of ourselves, or others—
Kkely to lower the standard of our national mao-
ood. to restrict the future freedom we are all
aspiring to, and unite In soul and body to establish
a nation whose guiding principles shall be glorious
In their effect upon ourselves, and noble in their
effect upon humanity.
If you are nervous take Wolfe's Schnapps
Old people whose blood has become thin
and steps feeble are praising American Hop Bit iers
for the good they have done them.
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
piVftl elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
GEORGE'S HORSE.
GeorGe Young was an auctioneer in Brisbane.
He had made money, and to keep a proper position
in society it was necessary to set up a horse and
trap. He had the trap, and, noticing an advertise-
ment in one of the papers which offered a quiet
harness-horse for sale; he resolved to get him os
trial. “ You be ready at one o’clock,” he tsld his
wife, “ I‘m going to take you otit for a drive.”
“But you haven’t got any horse, George.”
“ No, my, dear,” he remarked, with withering
sarcasm, “ I haven’t got a horse; but it is possible
to fill that vacancy. You be ready at one, any-
how, and we’ll see what other arrangements W 8
can make for hauling the vehiole;”
At 2 p.m. George hove insight, over his shoulder
was the end of a rein, and further astern, and
ENJOYMENT.
THIS! OH, THIS MERELY SHOWS OLD SLAYER AND TOM CRAWL PRACTISING FOR
THE NEXT LEVEE. THEY LIKE THIS SORT OF THING.
depending on the same, was the horse, who,
despondent and downcast, allowed himself to be
towed along.
After towing him a pieoe. George would stop,
range up alongside the quadruoed, and toe him.
Then he would use some language which was
utterly unfltrfor publication, and ones more strain
on the “twine 3 ” as he dragged the fiery and un-
tamed animal through the streets
“ Mind, Mister,” remarked a cabman confiden-
tially, “he’ll bolt ”
“He ain't broke in to lead, is he?” queried
another.
“Ghost! ’ ejaculated a newsboy, “look at the
man running away with the horse.”
And at each salutation, George pulled up to
“ boot ” the beast and wipe the perspiration from
his brow, while inlarguageby no means compli-
mentary, h«J commented upon the appearanoe and
general bearing of his critic 3.
A MERE DETAIL.
MANAGER OF ZOO (to new hand): “WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO WITH THE ELE-
PHANT, PAT ?”
PAT: “LADE HIM TO WATHER, SIR.”
MAN.: “BUT YOU HAVE HIM BY THE TAIL.”
PAT: “SHURE, AN’ WHIN A BASTE HAS TWO OF ’EM, IT DON’T MATTHEB WHICH
GOES FURSHT!”
At 2.15 p.m. he reaebed the gate, and, passing
through, enquired of his better-half if she was
ready.
“ Oh yes, dear,” she replied, sweetly, “ I’m ready,
and I’ve dressed baby, too. Is the horse quiet ? ”
“Quiet; no, he’s a ripping, tearing, buck jump-
ing warrigal, and I’m only frightened as soon as
we put him to, he'll bolt and smash everything to
everlasting splinters. Quiet; oh, nc,” he observed
sarcastically, “ a corpse Is a bucking, bounding,
outlaw compared with him Shut that gate, can’t
you. else he 11 be off like a meteor.”
“ But, dear, I had better not take baby. If it’s
wicked I don’t want to go.”
“ Oh, you don’t want to go now, of course, that’s
woman all over. Well, you’ve got to go; I’ve
spent this holy morning fetching him, and we’re
going out for a drive.”
The trap was brought up and the horse hitched,
and, getting aboard, George spoke gently to him.
“ Hi, get up.”
“ Stluok, chuck,” he chirruped.
I The steed was anchored.
“ He won’t go, George,” remarked the lady.
I George smiled blandly.
“Just allow mo, my dear, he’s got to go. You
get in here; quick now.”
She stepped limbly fo her seat, and drawing
the whip George shook it at him.
“ Hey, gope, come on, ho, shoo.’’
The quiet harness horse had evidently decided to
keep up his reputation. Ho did not move.
Then the whip flicked him, but he suffered and
made no sign.
“Get down and lead him,” suggested the partner
of his business.
Handing her the reins, George dismounted and
proceeded to lead the nag; Planting his forefeet
firmly, and setting, Well back In the breeching, the
dbfenda,nt defied the plaintiff's effoits
“ Hit Him with the whip,” said George, and
the lady, leaning'well over, threw the lash with
such dexterity that it coiled round her neck, and
pulled the rim of her hat over her face.
George, with a dangerous glitter in his steel-gray
eyes Csee novels), enquired:
“ What kind r f a sanguinary circus are you
having there? Hit him, flog him, give him what
for. Here, lend me that whip. I'll make the beauty
go.”
And as he viciously chopped him the lady began
to cry. “Don’t weep, dear,” he observed sooth-
ingly, “don’t be sad, this is not a funeral; it is, oh,
it is, a joyou j driving party, this horse is guaran-
teed quiet in harness, and after we return home
from the festive ride I’m going to endorse that
guarantee to any amount. Quiet, he’s —. Get
up, you —”
“ Oh, George, I don’t care to go, I’ve got a head-
ache I’m— ’
“ Ye3,l know, you sit perfectly quiet, and come
on here” he blurted as he dropped the butt of his
whip on the ear of his charger and oausei him to
shift bis feet.
“ Ah, that shifts you, does it ? Now, look out,
he’s off,” and George jumped Into the cart, and
alternately tugging and flogging, tried to persuade
the steed to move on.
It was useless. He would not shift. A crowd
had gathered at the gate. Each individual had
some advice to offer; a few poked borak, and one
or two of the more intelligent entered the gate-
way and belaboured the quiet harness horse with
battens.
At the end of an hour he had not moved any,
and George decided to give him a rest.
Dismounting from the vehicle, he entered the
house and lit his pipe.
Five minutes after(vards (here was a slight stir
in the yard, the quiet harness horse looked round,
no one was near. Straightening himself up till
every thing was taut, ho drew out, and popping his
head down, fired one fair lifting shot at the front of
the dogcart, and, as the ruins flew in air behind
him, he shook himself together, and, ejaculating a
few sounds expressive ot his supreme contempt
for harness work at any time, he set his tail at
half-oock, and skipped for home.
“ The horse has moved I think, dear,” said Mrs.
Young.
“ You think so, do you ? Well, now, 17 mow
he’s moved; that cart’s moved, too—some of it,
anyway; and look here, next time you want to go
for a drive, you go and take a ’bus. I’m
full up to the chin of your tinkering way of hold-
ing a horse. If you only held him properly he’d
have gone right at first, but women seem to have
no notion of holding a horse.”
And the Young family are still without a trap
and pony. George has never tried it since. He
says a hansom is good enough for him, and the
wife caa always get a’bus when she wants to go
out.
Mr. Bernath must be a long-suffering
Individual, if the Geelong Advertiser is a truth-
ful recorder of events, for in the course of an
action which he brought for damages against a
neighbour whose cattle had for a long time past
damaged his hay and straw, he said that he had
not taken action before because “ ho believed that
if he were struck on one cheek, it was right for
him to offer the other check also.” It seems that
his angelic disposition broke down at last, for
when a cow of the defendant’s found her way into
his house, he “ shvore.” He could stand hls neigh-
bour’s cattle damaging his hay and straw outside
his abode, but he wasn’t prepared to receive them
as visitors inside. Bernath is evidently too good
for Geelong; ho ought to have a little residence
in the place where they fit you with wings and
give you a harp to play on. On second thoughts,
though, it occurs to us that a man who “ shvore ”
at an innocent cow walking into his house might
not be considered eligible for the place referred
to.
It is related of Commissioner Daley, the
warder for many years of the Yictorian goldfields,
that upon one ocoasion, after sentencing a man to
he imprisoned for some offence, the latter became
abusive. He remarked that, but for the protec-
tion afforded him by the court, the commissioner
would probably have found his eye In his hand
sometime ago, and that nothing would afford him
greater satisfaction than to employ himself for
five minutes giving to the Bench that chastisement
of whioh it stood so much in need. Ordering the
court to be cleared, the Commissioner left the
bench and strove with the prisoner, who Inside of
ten minutes had more hlaek eyes and broken
noses than could be specified in the limits of a
handbill. He was knocked out and badly beaten,
after which his cas® was reconsidered, and he was
discharged to appear when called upon. He was
never summoned again, not even for having an
unregistered dog. Thus in the early days did the
strong arm of the law uphold the dignity of its
administrators. Daley has lain in his narrow
grave for years, but the memory of his just and
fearless lawgiving is still fresh in the memory of
old miners.
Patent medicine advertisements are not
often entertaining, but we have hit on one which
raises a train of thoughts within our gloomy and
storm-tossed breast. It is a testimonial in favour
of somebody or other’s Sudden Death Specific* (no
names given unless advertisement is prepaid), and
the writer (a Scotchman by-the-bye) states: “A
certain minister in my neighbourhood says it is
the only thing which has benefltted him and re-
stored him to his normal condition of healtn after
being unable to preach for a considerable length
of time.” One thing is missing in this Scotch-
man’s testimonial, he should have said that
the Ministers congregation had used the stuff
also, and had been restored to their normal condi-
tion after hearing the mli ister preach “for a con-
siderable length of time.” Once we heard a
Scotch minister preach that is, nve heard him com-
mence, and stood half an-bour of it. Then we
“went to speak to a friend ” and after a pleasant
hour in comr.any vich several jovial companions
and a billi rd table we w ent back, out of curiosity
to see if he had got through. Ju*t ss we re-entered
he announced the third heal of his discourse. It
was too much, an i we flsd, but we had noted the
text and fixed up.a two colum report from Blair’s
Sermons. All our readers praised it, and said It
was a capital resume of the sermon. Most of them
who were present had peacefully slept the whole
performance out, as for the others it didn’t matter,
and tne minister personal y thanked us for our
“careful report.”
AN OVERLANDER’S TRIBUTE.
“ Yes,” said Mr. Thomas Harvey, of Narrandera,
N.S W., a tall, well-built, sunburnt man of some
50 years—“ a drover's life is a pretty tough one.
Putting aside the anxiety of the business, there’s
the hard work and hard fare. It isn’t kind of
work for dudes and mashers, I can assure you.”
“How long have you followed the business?”
we ask^d.
“ Nearly 15 years. T was brought up to the sea,
but ran away in TWO. from my ship, and slipped up
country. I got work on one of Winter’s stations,
where I met a towny of mine, and we went
travelling sheep, since which I’ve followed the
business pretty regularly.”
“ That is. you’ve taken sheep and cattle from
one part of the country to another.”
“Just so, principilly to and from Queensland.”
“Your occupation appears to have agreed with
you.” we remarked—“you look strong and
hearty.”
“ Well,” returned Mr. Harvey with a quiet smile
you wouldn’t said as much a lew weeks back.
Of course we get pretty sick, sometimes, in the
bush. I’ve beeu down hait-a-dozen times with
fever and ague, and have taken as much quinine
as would stock a chemist's shop. Rheumatism and
I are like husband and wife— one flesh, you know.
I really believe I should think I’d gone wrong, if
I hadn’t a touch now and again. Then dysentry
atd bad water go together. Of course I must
have hydatids, though they don’t trouble me
much as yet. But wnen a man has swallowed as
many millions of bacteria, you see, as I have, he
can’t well be off getting a population around his
liver. May be the medicine I’ve been taking for
my kidneys will rouse up the insect life within
me,” and he laughed, as though the prospect of
beiag a victim to hydatids were one of those small
il s which the philosophy of the bushman takes as
matters of course.
“You say you weren’t very well a few weeks
ago ? ”
“ Well, no—l was suffering from inflammation
of the kidneys. I’ve had it bad for 12 months, and
the dootora did me little good. When I came clown
last time, Mr. Jack, an eld mate of mine, told me
about this new medicine that everybody is talking
about—Warner’s Safe Cure. Well, I tried it just
on the off chance, you know, and I tell you it is
really wonderful. I took up flesh at once, and lost
the nasty dragging-do wn pains which, sometimes,
nearly pulled me out of <he saddle, ; feel quite
sound and hearty, and all my friends tell me I look
so. I suppose toe cure had something to no with
my old skipper s wonder when I met him the
other day, and made myself known”—and Mr,
Harvey laughed heartily.
“You met him ? ” we asked.
“ Well, yes, at dinner at a hotel in town. I knew
him at once, but when I told him who I was, he
could scarcely believe his eyes. When I ran away
from the old ship, I was as lean as an overlander
bullock. Something like Smike, you know, in the
book. If the cap’en had seen me before I began
the cure, maybe be might have seen some likeness
to his runaway ’prentice. But I’d picked up, and
he didn’t. Yes, it is a wonderful remedy, really
wonderful. Its action is so rapid, you see. it is
hound to go well with the boys in the bush. A lot
of them suffer from kidney and liver complaints,
and i shall always speak well of the bridge that
carried me over,” with which Mr. Harvey nodded
cheerily, and we parted, mutually pleased.


qyaap
RAOL MARKUS
B'
HKAD STOUT.—Thia favourite fersne
eat of Beleoted with great care from toe
.tthiji n. Swings of the celebrated firm cf
tan o tk? u toness and Co n Dublin, and therefore
r e^Uod - To be prooured
• “ LL 4nn Sole Agents.
J.H.CEDDES&CO.
Al «liou»u».
Pllfw
V Oommartt
'ATUfiDAT.
T^BDlt,
188 C-8
Wool Soonreri-
Bnokland Mtlli
Waterloo Willi
And Floodvalt.
Oapabtlitioi,
1,000 Baloa
Weoklj
Dolirory,
14 Day* aftoi
roooption.
Spooial Robati
on Wool Sola
by at aftor
Boonring.
Promj
DOE
WW4 *""* W Fat 8 took, Mod.nU
* THURBDATB.
Stro*. . V 'Murtd from rtitptlon t* dellutry.
1, Pfcc 'lS , i for Wool to k« Scoured ky tke rim,
WAfiCUftlin i orw ‘ r ded FreeofCoet.
""CHOUSES & OFFICES, CIRCULAR QUAY.
•rsmasramr
Raw vaseline.
A
OB
and Preserving Horses’ Hoof*
and prevents their growth
r -- - iooci native it is invaluable-pro
*?ta u packing, and renders it waterproof
SrM qualities, uneqalled as i
w tor > and for keeping in perfect order
f 0 A Machines, &c. It is the solo material
Eptpnj, "he above purposes in the Austrian ant
her£ hrrni es . Sold by all Saddlers and Store
SOLE AGENTS:
<UcKß&mn & co.p
SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
York-street, Sydney.
HATTERS
STREET
_ -,NEY
SHAPES.
BUTCHER * C.O.
WlNi» e William Long).
® a ND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
'^ourjj 884 q eorgb street,
the town hall, sydnit
®oli
receive prompt attention.
WALLACE,
e * 01 ev ®ry description of
Law, Mercantile and
p/L® nc y Stationery,.
•*’» and nasuioM raealvad by
«. fITDWI'
Mltr WINES,
MEDAL BORDEAUX,
3 5 KLLARs and BODEGA.
Oeorge-street
. (Ben eath Paling’s.)
«t
are to
IQ the “LIGHT AND
p ® edy cur s of Nervous Debility
i
b Q ut iood V» y ur “ ot *er*voi
Win k ** es Pomlency, &c. A copy of
e sent free, sealed. Address—
«• Ward & co.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
16 Hunter-street. Sydney,
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
m
BASS FAIiB ALA.*!
The BIST ALB and STOUT lnthe Market
■OLD BY ALL BTORBKBBPBRB AND WIKI
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
T
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
HT THE REMINGTON TYPE WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing- much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time,
gold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO.,
85 Clarcnce-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
NCOBPORATED BY ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 187?
Paid-up Capital i... 4300,00 P
Reserve Fund 4160,000
Directors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. R. Cohen, B*
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
daymarket, Pyrraont, Redfern, Gosford, Nynga
Bourke, Manly, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
idward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Fin&i
-lal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
nd other produce shipped to England for sale.
Christmas Presents.
N
OVELTIES
FO R
IN
GENTLEMEN
PIPES,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CAS S-*,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKS.
A h rgo assortment o r CIO ARS, in all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand ot
TOBACCO.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
CHRISTMAS.
JOHN ROAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
820 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
DR. BOYD,
53 CASTLBRE A G H-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday,
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases t
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O,
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, ana vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing: of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—lloo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
sKair*
First Fire Society established in me colony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
2v Policy-he’dersare perfectly free by law from
SK all liability
g Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
F ® Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
* Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
PAINTS.
oils. Jy
WALL
& PAPERS
Office: 330 Oeorge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
BT N.B. Patterns and Prioes sent.
Sulphoßine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES /
In a few days Eruptions, Pirn pies, 'Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
ess. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish
ng results follow. It removes every kind oi
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s. 9d
?ach. Made only by J. PEPPEIi and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
HEALTH.
BTREI
(3 RE AT BODILI
PH.
SR6T.
PREUGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT RENTAL STRENGTH !
ITIVE
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the ui
Of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
romotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections
ana wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Popper’s
Slade solely by J. PEPPER and Co 7, London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
Xj©clr3rer’s
SULPHUR
BAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
o,vt#
A^l
Jr*#
r,'W
6 p///' \
VV
/>°>V> *
DR. BRIGHT'S FHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovatiDg impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought udoh the
Individual a* to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
* harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
C. ES. HODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT foi
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPB
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
_G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BCBSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Beorge.sf., Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
fJIHI
FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may bo left for deiitefj
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agenoy fo
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ Ice Co., Limited,
HeadOffioe.. .. ... 21 Harbour-stree*
Stables ... .. .. Liverpool-street.
Factory .. Mittagong.
HOhESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
OHM
S>ORK£
SffliND
LAND
WUn/tXj
&TttnA
UimiunJus
It is of the utmost importance that contents oi
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should oom
pareLORNE HIGei LAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SOi, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS
m
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Here always In STOCK, for SAL?
to the TRADE and WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AMD
BARTHENWA R B.
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Oognao.
J. T. GAYBN’B
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVTN*and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Ingham’s
Euphof^bi^
II
QUEENSLAND CURE
Asthma, Bronchitis lh
Couchs, ™ "•
i jt&.'Li, ' PREPAREOVonIy BY
mi Thomas Ingham
Rockhampton
“ i


at#
oP T£
o
I
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Platt
lk c . jS i
BONA-FIDE REDUCTN
in i iimi—,llll,ll i ii mm
339 & 341 GEORGES" SYDNE'
me, . ; ; AND AT
14 BourkeS t , E. Melbourne
i
I
A
t.
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT I
dru<£
DRINS
drin*
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRIT & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
t, safe, and private. “Symptom list fr?e, and medicines sent by post.
js, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blc
SB. O COMKTELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SITXJZSTETr, 3ST.S_W.
A regular graduate in ail the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W.j whoso
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CO N N ELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent fey post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe ami Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Penv.lcs, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, Ac., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
Skin Diseas _
of evqr.v kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
Blotches and Eruptions
'V/j v
:>>•»///a* %
M
mi
■
f'.v’
It is self-evident tliat a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains groat skill
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently refeoimncM cases.to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the groat number of cases applying the
charges arc kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free Call on or
address DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 CastlereaarU Street (ground moon), Sydney.
SSellaTol© Sio.g'grlesi 1
i
mm
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICA!) CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITO»
HORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETT
California and Eastern Buckboard Waggons.
IN I
*sr BEBT MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK* *
WILLIAM FLEMIUa, Merchant & Import* 1
$9 & &4 ClarftTiop-HtrPPt. Sydney (nm* Patty’s Hotel.)
da-rlim.gr DHazToc-CLr Hotel
■ ARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Oates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Propriety
BT" F.BPECTAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
115T15 FEB!
HOLLING & SPANGENBEHG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Plano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZE M EDAL’RON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Eoonomv of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
Gr* W EljX/Sj
1, Hunter street, Sydney,
from whe ro may be had prices and terms to met t
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
Rords.
J®" THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.J.WELLS,
1 Hunter-sfree?, Sidney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AWD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
afteb OEFORE
Copyrighted
MO SSTACHS and WEISKEES.
Beard J'lixir did thin, and
v-mL .it on either bold head or
Foi res henry lions.
taefllKr -ornZto 4 weeks and never
fails, P,iX>o young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
BEFOnS AFTER
Copyrighted.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets la. 6<f.
each, 3 for 3a. Cd.,post paid , sent under cover , free from observation .
,/4 ddresu , Frank Agent, /?oa? 7.’10, O'. /’.0., Sydney, N.£. IP*
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Coiiti*,
TX 30 d.©3rta,ls:©z.
84 HUNTER Jfe PHILLIP BTREETI.
lUNBRALS NHATLT BXBOtJTED,
N.B.—Mr. Eirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten (10) year a.
STEAM FT7MFO'j
H. P, GREGORY &
17 PITT ST REE^
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
and have in Stook and to airiv*-
FIRE PUMPS , I
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUM?’ 9
MINING PUMPS \
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING t
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTR
CATALOGUES FORWARDED &
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Erated Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorlne,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Golo Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, & c
